{"id": "5065366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5065366", "title": "A Carinae", "text": "A Carinae\n\nThe Bayer designations A Carinae and a Carinae are distinct. Due to technical limitations, both designations link here. For the star\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2906879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2906879", "title": "Air current", "text": "Air current\n\nAir currents are concentrated areas of winds. They are mainly due to differences in pressure and/or temperature. They are divided into horizontal and vertical currents: both are present at mesoscale while horizontal ones dominate at synoptic scale. Air currents are not only found in the troposphere, but extend to the stratosphere and mesosphere.\n\nA difference in air pressure causes an air displacement and generates the wind. The Coriolis Force deflects the air movement to the right in the northern hemisphere and the left in the southern one, which makes the winds parallel to the isobars on an elevation in pressure card. It's called the geostrophic wind.\n\nPressure differences depend, in turn, the average temperature in the air column. As the sun does not heat the Earth evenly, there is a temperature difference between the poles and the equator, creating air masses with more or less homogeneous temperature with latitude. Differences in atmospheric pressure are also at the origin of the general atmospheric circulation while the air masses are separated by ribbons where temperature changes rapidly. These are the fronts. Along these areas, higher winds aloft form. These horizontal jets (jet streams) can reach speeds of several hundred kilometers per hour and can span thousands of kilometers in length, but can only have a few tens or hundreds of kilometers of width.\n\nOn the surface, the friction due to the terrain and other obstacles (buildings, trees, etc.) may contribute to a slowdown and/or a wind deflection. Thus, a more turbulent wind in the atmospheric boundary layer. This wind can be channeled through narrows, like valleys. The wind will also be raised along the slopes of the mountains to give local air currents.\n\nIn an air mass moving, vertical movements occur when there is convergence and divergence at different levels of the atmosphere. For example, when we are near the jet stream, winds increase when approaching its most intense region and decreases when it moves away. So there are areas where the air accumulates and must come down, while in other areas there is a loss and an updraft from lower layers. These upward or downward flows will be relatively diffused.\n\nOn the other hand, barriers such as mountains force air up or down, sometimes rapidly. As the barriers are very localized, these currents will affect very limited areas and therefore will form corridors.\n\nThermals are caused by local differences in temperature, pressure, or impurity concentration in the vertical. Temperature differences can cause air currents because warmer air is less dense than cooler air, causing the warmer air to appear \"lighter.\" Thus, if the warm air is under the cool air, air currents will form as they exchange places. Air currents are caused because of the uneven heating of Earth's surface.\n"}
{"id": "18184507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18184507", "title": "Applied sustainability", "text": "Applied sustainability\n\nApplied sustainability is the application of science and innovation, including the insights of the social sciences, to meet human needs while indefinitely preserving the life support systems of the planet.\n\nNote that this is a significant difference from the standard definition of sustainability that normally is encapsulated by some version of the Brundtland Commission's concept: “development that meets the needs and aspirations of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs”\n\nA more refined definition would be called \"just applied sustainability\": the just and equitable application of science and innovation, including the social sciences, to ensure a better quality of life for all, now and into the future whilst living within the limits of supporting ecosystems. This comes from the definition of Just Sustainability, which is “the egalitarian conception of sustainable development\". It generates an improved definition of sustainable development as \"the need to ensure a better quality of life for all, now and into the future, in a just and equitable manner, whilst living within the limits of supporting ecosystems\". This new form of sustainable development prioritizes justice and equity, while maintaining the importance of the environment and the global life support system.\n\nThe relationship between \"applied sustainability\" and sustainability (or sustainability science) is analogous relationship between applied science (engineering) and basic science. Whereas science is the effort to discover, understand, or to understand better, how the physical world works, with observable physical evidence as the basis of that understanding. Applied science is the application of knowledge from one or more natural scientific fields to solve practical problems.\n\nApplied sustainability is essentially sustainable engineering – by utilizing natural laws and physical resources in order to design and implement materials, structures, machines, devices, systems, and processes that meets human need while preserving the environment forever. Applied sustainability is made up of work in engineering, policy, and education – whatever methods are necessary to conserve the world for our children. A recent study has shown that open source principles can be used to accelerate deployment of sustainable technologies such as open source appropriate technologies.\n\nSustainability, itself, is a term that is often confused because in its most basic form it is a characteristic of a process or state that can be maintained at a certain level indefinitely. When used in the context of development, as sustainable development, it is a pattern of resource use that aims to meet human needs while preserving the environment so that these needs can be met not only in the present, but in the indefinite future. The most evolved definition of sustainability is that of just sustainability – \"the need to ensure a better quality of life for all, now and into the future, in a just and equitable manner, whilst living within the limits of supporting ecosystems\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58017976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58017976", "title": "Asteroid impact prediction", "text": "Asteroid impact prediction\n\nAsteroid impact prediction is the prediction of the dates and times of asteroids impacting Earth, along with the locations and severities of the impacts. \n\nThe process of impact prediction follows three major steps:\n\nCurrently, prediction is mainly based on cataloging asteroids years before they are due to impact. This works well for larger asteroids (> 1 km across) as they are easily seen from a long distance, so their orbits can be measured and any future impacts predicted long before they are on their final approach to Earth.\n\nSmaller near-Earth objects seldom pass close enough to Earth that they become bright enough to observe on a previous approach, and so most can only be observed on final approach. Current mechanisms for detecting asteroids on final approach rely on ground based telescopes. However, current telescopes do not monitor the sky often enough to detect most of the smaller asteroids that commonly impact Earth during the short time that they are bright enough, and cannot detect any of those which impact the day side of the planet, which is why so few are detected.\n\nIn 1992 in a report to NASA, a coordinated survey (Spaceguard) was recommended to discover, verify and provide follow-up observations for Earth-crossing asteroids. This survey was expected to discover 90% of objects larger than one kilometer within 25 years. Three years later, another NASA report recommended search surveys that would discover 60–70% of short-period, near-Earth objects larger than one kilometer within ten years and obtain 90% completeness within five more years.\n\nIn 1998, NASA formally embraced the goal of finding and cataloging, by 2008, 90% of all near-Earth objects (NEOs) with diameters of 1 km or larger that could represent a collision risk to Earth. The 1 km diameter metric was chosen after considerable study indicated that an impact of an object smaller than 1 km could cause significant local or regional damage but is unlikely to cause a worldwide catastrophe.The impact of an object much larger than 1 km diameter could well result in worldwide damage up to, and potentially including, extinction of the human species. The NASA commitment has resulted in the funding of a number of NEO search efforts, which made considerable progress toward the 90% goal by the target date of 2008, including the first ever successful prediction of an asteroid impact ( was detected 19 hours before impact). However the 2009 discovery of several NEOs approximately 2 to 3 kilometers in diameter (e.g. , , , and ) demonstrated there were still large objects to be detected.\n\nThree years later, in 2012, asteroid 367943 Duende was discovered and successfully predicted to be on close approach to Earth again just 11 months later. This was a landmark prediction as the object was only 20 m × 40 m, and was closely monitored as a result. However, on the day of its closest approach another asteroid was also approaching Earth, unpredicted and undetected. Unlike 367943 Duende it was on a collision course and impacted Earth 16 hours before 367943 Duende passed, becoming the Chelyabinsk meteor. It injured 1,500 people and damaged over 7,000 buildings, raising the profile of the dangers of even small asteroid impacts if they occur over populated areas. The asteroid was estimated to be less than 20 m across.\n\nIn April 2018, the B612 Foundation reported \"It's 100 per cent certain we'll be hit [by a devastating asteroid], but we're not 100 per cent sure when.\" Also in 2018, physicist Stephen Hawking, in his final book \"Brief Answers to the Big Questions\", considered an asteroid collision to be the biggest threat to the planet. In June 2018, the US National Science and Technology Council warned that America is unprepared for an asteroid impact event, and has developed and released the \"National Near-Earth Object Preparedness Strategy Action Plan\" to better prepare.\n\nThe first step in predicting impacts is detecting asteroids and determining their orbits. Finding faint Near-Earth objects against the background stars is very much a needle in a haystack search. It is achieved by sky surveys that are designed to discover near Earth asteroids. Unlike the majority of telescopes that have a narrow field of view and high magnification, survey telescopes have a wide field of view to allow them to scan the entire sky in a reasonable amount of time, and yet still need to be sensitive enough to pick up the faint Near-Earth objects they are searching for.\n\nNEO focused surveys revisit the same area of sky several times in succession. Anything that moves from image to image against the background of stars can then be compared to a catalogue of known objects, and if it is not already known, then it is reported as a new discovery along with its astrometry. This then allows other observers to confirm and add to the data about the newly discovered object.\n\nThe main current surveys are listed below, along with future telescopes that are already funded. The existing ones are, unfortunately, concentrated in a small part of the planet. Two (Pan-STARRS and ATLAS) are in Hawaii, which means they see the same parts of the sky at the same time of day, and are affected by the same weather. Two others (Catalina Sky Survey and Zwicky Transient Facility) are located in the southwestern United States and so suffer from similar overlap. These surveys do complement each other to an extent in terms of the telescopes they use (some are more suited for finding large slow moving objects that are further away, and others for small objects that are closer and faster moving). However, the resulting coverage across the globe is poor. There are currently no major surveys in the Southern Hemisphere or the Eastern Hemisphere, and all the NEO-focused surveys are fairly close together.\n\nThis clustering together of the sky surveys on one side of the planet means that for large periods during the day there is no major survey monitoring the sky at all. Once it is completed, the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope will cover the southern sky, but being at a similar longitude to the other surveys there will still be times every day when it will be in daylight along with all the others. The 3.5 m Space Surveillance Telescope, which was originally also in the southwest United States, was dismantled and moved to Western Australia in 2017. When completed, this would make a significant difference to the global coverage. However, due to the new site being in a cyclone region, construction has not been completed. Unless this issue is resolved, the two new ATLAS telescopes planned for construction at the South African Astronomical Observatory by 2022, are currently the only ones which will cover this gap (south east of the globe) in monitoring the skies.\n\nATLAS, the \"Asteroid Terrestrial-impact Last Alert System\" uses two 0.5 metre telescopes located at Haleakala and Mauna Loa on two of the Hawaiian Islands. With a field of view of 29 square degrees each, the telescopes survey the observable sky every two clear nights down to apparent magnitude 19. The survey has been fully operational with these two telescopes since 2017, and in 2018 obtained NASA funding for two additional telescopes. These will be sited in the Southern hemisphere, and are expected to take four years to build.\n\nThe Catalina Sky Survey (CSS) uses two telescopes, a 1.5 m Cassegrain reflector telescope on the peak of Mount Lemmon (also known as a survey in its own right, the Mount Lemmon Survey), and a 0.7 m Schmidt telescope near Mount Bigelow (both in the Tucson, Arizona area in the south west of the United States). Both sites use identical cameras which provide a field of view of 5 square degrees on the 1.5-m telescope and 19 square degrees on the Catalina Schmidt. The Cassegrain reflector telescope takes three to four weeks to survey the entire sky, detecting objects fainter than apparent magnitude 21.5. The 0.7 m telescope takes a week to complete a survey of the sky, detecting objects fainter than apparent magnitude 19. This combination of telescopes, one slow and one medium, has so far detected more near Earth Objects than any other single survey. This shows the need for a combination of different types of telescopes.\n\nCSS used to include a telescope in the Southern Hemisphere, the Siding Spring Survey. However operations ended in 2013 after funding was discontinued.\n\nThe Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) is a wide-field survey reflecting telescope with an 8.4-meter primary mirror, currently under construction on Cerro Pachón in Chile. It will survey the entire available sky around every three nights. Science operations are due to begin in 2022. Scanning the sky relatively fast but also being able to detect objects down to apparent magnitude 27, it should be good at detecting nearby fast moving objects as well as excellent for larger slower objects that are currently further away.\n\nThe Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer is a 0.4 m infrared-wavelength space telescope launched in December 2009, and placed in hibernation in February 2011. It was re-activated in 2013 specifically to search for near-Earth objects under the NEOWISE mission. By this stage, the spacecraft's cryogenic coolant had been depleted and so only two of the spacecraft's four sensors could be used. Whilst this has still led to new discoveries of asteroids not previously seen from ground-based telescopes, the productivity has dropped significantly. In its peak year when all four sensors were operational, WISE made 2.28 million observations. In recent years, with no cryogen, NEOWISE typically makes approximately 0.15 million observations annually. The next generation of infrared space telescopes has been designed so that they do not need cryogenic cooling.\n\nPan-STARRS, the \"Panoramic Survey Telescope And Rapid Response System\", currently (2018) consists of two 1.8 m Ritchey–Chrétien telescopes located at Haleakala in Hawaii. It has discovered a large number of new asteroids, comets, variable stars, supernovae and other celestial objects. Its primary mission is now to detect mear-Earth objects that threaten impact events, and it is expected to create a database of all objects visible from Hawaii (three-quarters of the entire sky) down to apparent magnitude 24. The Pan-STARRS NEO survey searches all the sky north of declination −47.5. It takes three to four weeks to survey the entire sky.\n\nThe Space Surveillance Telescope (SST) is a 3.5 m telescope that detects, tracks, and can discern small, obscure objects, in deep space with a wide field of view system. The SST mount uses an advanced servo-control technology, that makes it one of the quickest and most agile telescopes of its size. It has a field of view of 6 square degrees and can scan the visible sky in 6 clear nights down to apparent magnitude 20.5. Its primary mission is tracking orbital debris. This task is similar to that of spotting near-Earth asteroids and so it is capable of both.\n\nThe SST was initially deployed for testing and evaluation at the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico. On December 6, 2013, it was announced that the telescope system would be moved to the Naval Communication Station Harold E. Holt in Exmouth, Western Australia. The SST was moved to Australia in 2017, but due to the new site being in a cyclone region, construction has been delayed, pending a redesign that can withstand cyclone force winds.\n\nThe Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF) was commissioned in 2018, superseding the Intermediate Palomar Transient Factory (2009–2017). It is designed to detect transient objects that rapidly change in brightness as well as moving objects, for example supernovae, gamma ray bursts, collisions between two neutron stars, comets and asteroids. The ZTF is a 1.2 m telescope that has a field of view of 47 square degrees, designed to image the entire northern sky in three nights and scan the plane of the Milky Way twice each night to a limiting magnitude of 20.5. The amount of data produced by ZTF is expected to be 10 times larger than its predecessor.\n\nOnce a new asteroid has been discovered and reported, other observers can confirm the finding and add to the data about the newly discovered object. Unlike the initial discovery, which typically requires unusual and expensive survey telescopes, ordinary telescopes can be used to confirm the object as its position is now known. There are far more of these around the globe, and even a well equipped amateur astronomer can contribute to the findings. For example, the Great Shefford Observatory is sited in the back garden of amateur Peter Birtwhistle who typically submits thousands of observations to the Minor Planet Center every year.\n\nThe International Astronomical Union Minor Planet Center (MPC) is the global clearing house for information on asteroid orbits. Follow up observations from professionals and amateurs alike are important because once a sky survey has reported a discovery it may not return to observe the object again for days or weeks, by which time it may be too faint for it to detect. The more observations that are made of an object and the longer the elapsed time it is observed over, the greater the accuracy of the orbit model. This is important for two reasons:\n\n\nAssessing the size of the asteroid is important for predicting the severity of the explosion it will cause on impact, and therefore the measures that need to be taken (if any). Because of this, one key follow up observation is to view the asteroid in the thermal infrared spectrum, using an infrared telescope. The amount of thermal radiation coming from an asteroid allows a much more accurate assessment of its size than how bright it appears (apparent magnitude) to an ordinary telescope that operates in the visible spectrum. With infrared, it is possible to estimate the size to within about 10% of the true size. With reflected visible light observed by a conventional telescope, the object could be anything from 50% to 200% of the estimated size.\n\nOne example of a such a follow up observation was for 3671 Dionysus by UKIRT, the worlds largest infrared telescope. However such follow ups are rare. The size estimates of most near-Earth asteroids are based on visible light only.\n\nIt should be noted that if the object was discovered by an infrared survey telescope initially, then an accurate size estimate will already be available, and infrared follow up will not be needed. However none of the ground-based survey telescopes listed above operate in the thermal infrared wavelengths, and although NEOWISE used to have two thermal infrared sensors, they have stopped working since the cryogen ran out. There are therefore currently no active or planned thermal infrared sky surveys which are focused on discovering near-Earth objects.\n\nThe minimum orbit intersection distance (MOID) between an asteroid and the Earth is the distance between the closest points of their orbits. This first check is a coarse measure that does not allow an impact prediction to be made, but is based solely on the orbit parameters and gives an initial measure of how close to Earth the asteroid could come. If the MOID is large then the two objects never come near each other. In this case, unless the orbit of the asteroid is perturbed so that the MOID is reduced at some point in the future, it will never impact Earth and can be ignored. However if the MOID is small then it is necessary to carry out more detailed calculations to determine if an impact will happen in the future. NASA considers asteroids with a MOID of less than 0.05 AU and an absolute magnitude brighter than 22 to be a potentially hazardous asteroid.\n\nOnce the orbit model for the asteroid has been refined, the future positions of the asteroid can be forecast sufficiently far into the future to check its projected position against the future projected position of Earth. If the distance between the centre of the asteroid and the centre of the Earth is less than Earth radius then an impact is predicted. To take account of the uncertainties (however small) in the orbit of the asteroid, several future projections are made (simulations). Each simulation has slightly different parameters within the range of the uncertainty. This allows a percentage chance of impact to be estimated. For example if 1,000 simulations are carried out and 739 result in an impact, then the prediction would be a 73.9% chance of impact.\n\nNEODyS (Near Earth Objects Dynamic Site) is a European Space Agency service that provides information on near Earth objects. It is based on a continually and (almost) automatically maintained database of near earth asteroid orbits. The site provides a number of services to the NEO community. The main service is an impact monitoring system (CLOMON2) of all near-Earth asteroids covering a period until the year 2100.\n\nThe NEODyS website includes a Risk Page where all NEOs with probabilities of hitting the Earth greater of 10 from now until 2100 are shown in a risk list. In the table of the risk list the NEOs are divided into \"special\", as it is the case of (99942) Apophis; \"observable\", objects which are presently observable and which critically need a follow up in order to improve their orbit; \"possible recovery\", objects which are not visible at present, but which are possible to recover in the next future; \"lost\", objects which have an absolute magnitude (H) brighter than 25 but which are virtually lost, being their orbit too uncertain; and \"small\", objects with an absolute magnitude fainter than 25 and, even if they are \"lost\", they are considered too small to result in heavy damage on the ground. Each object has its own impactor table (IT) which shows many parameters useful to determine the risk assessment.\n\nNASA's Sentry System continually scans the MPC catalog of known asteroids, analyzing their orbits for any possible future impacts. Like ESA's NEODyS, it gives a MOID for each near-Earth object, and a list of possible future impacts, along with the probability of each. It uses a slightly different algorithm to NEODyS, and so provides a useful cross-check and corroboration.\n\nCurrently, no impacts are predicted (the single highest probability impact currently listed is ~7 m asteroid , which is due to pass Earth in September 2095 with only a 5% predicted chance of impacting).\n\nThis section shows the number of successfully predicted impacts each year compared to the number of unpredicted asteroid impacts recorded by infrasound sensors designed to detect detonation of nuclear devices:\n\nIn addition to the already funded telescopes mentioned above, two separate approaches have been suggested by NASA to improve impact prediction. Both approaches focus on the first step in impact prediction (discovering near-Earth asteroids) as this is the largest weakness in the current system. The first approach uses more powerful ground-based telescopes similar to the LSST. This will improve detection, but being ground-based will only observe part of the sky around Earth. In particular, all ground-based telescopes have a large blind spot for any asteroids coming from the direction of the Sun. In addition, they are affected by weather conditions, airglow and the phase of the Moon.\n\nTo get around all of these issues, the second approach suggested is the use of space-based telescopes which can observe a much larger region of the sky around Earth. Although they still cannot point directly towards the Sun, they do not have the problem of blue sky to overcome and so can detect asteroids much closer in the sky to the Sun than ground-based telescopes. Unaffected by weather or airglow they can also operate 24 hours per day all year round. Finally, telescopes in space have the advantage of being able to use infrared sensors without the interference of the Earth's atmosphere. These sensors are better for detecting asteroids than optical sensors, and although there are some ground based infrared telescopes such as UKIRT, they are not designed for detecting asteroids. Space-based telescopes are more expensive, however, and tend to have a shorter lifespan. Therefore, Earth-based and space-based technologies complement each other to an extent.\n\nThere is a further issue that even telescopes in Earth orbit do not overcome. This is the issue of illumination. Asteroids go through phases similar to the lunar phases. Even though a telescope in orbit may have an unobstructed view of an object that is close in the sky to the Sun, it will still be looking at the dark side of the object. This is because the Sun is shining primarily on the side facing away from the Earth, as is the case with the Moon when it is in a crescent phase. Because of the opposition effect, objects are far less bright in these phases than when fully illuminated, which makes them difficult to detect (see diagram below).\n\nThis problem can be solved by positioning the space telescope away from Earth, closer to the Sun. The telescope can then look back towards Earth from the same direction as the Sun, and any asteroids closer to Earth than the telescope, will then be in opposition and much better illuminated. There is a point between the Earth and Sun where the gravities of the two bodies are perfectly in balance, called the Sun-Earth L1 Lagrange point (SEL1). It is approximately 1 million miles from Earth, about four times as far away as the Moon, and is ideally suited for placing such a space telescope. One problem with this position is Earth glare. Looking outward from SEL1, Earth itself is at full brightness, which prevents a telescope situated there from seeing that area of sky. Fortunately, this is the same area of sky that ground-based telescopes are best at spotting asteroids in, so the two complement each other.\n\nAnother possible position for a space telescope would be even closer to the Sun, for example in a Venus-like orbit. This would give a wider view of Earth orbit, but at a greater distance. Unlike a telescope at the SEL1 Lagrange point, it would not stay in sync with Earth but would orbit the Sun at a similar rate to Venus. Because of this, it would not often be in a position to provide any warning of asteroids shortly before impact, but it would be in a good position to catalog objects before they are on final approach, especially those which primarily orbit closer to the Sun.\n\nOne issue with being as close to the Sun as Venus is that the craft may be too warm to use infrared wavelengths. A second issue would be communications. As the telescope will be a long way from Earth for most of the year (and even behind the Sun at some points) communication would often be slow and at times impossible, without expensive improvements to the Deep Space Network.\n\nThis table summarises which of the various problems encountered by current telescopes are solved by the various different solutions.\n\nIn 2017 NASA proposed a number of alternative solutions to detect 90% of near-Earth objects of size 140 m or larger over the next few decades, which will also improve detection rates for the smaller objects which impact Earth more often. Several of the proposals use a combination of an improved ground based telescope and a space based telescope positioned at the SEL1 Lagrange point such as NEOCAM. However none of these proposals have yet been funded. As this is a global issue, and noting that to date NASA-sponsored surveys have contributed over 95% of all near earth object discoveries, in 2018 the Trump administration asked NASA to find international partners to help fund the improvements.\n\nOnce an impact has been predicted the potential severity needs to be assessed, and a response plan formed. Depending on the time to impact and the predicted severity this may be as simple as giving a warning to citizens. For example, although unpredicted, the 2013 \nimpact at Chelyabinsk was spotted through the window by teacher Yulia Karbysheva. She thought it prudent to take precautionary measures by ordering her students to stay away from the room's windows and to perform a duck and cover maneuver. Karbysheva, who remained standing, was seriously lacerated when the blast arrived and window glass severed a tendon in one of her arms and left thigh, but none of her students, whom she ordered to hide under their desks, suffered cuts. If the impact had been predicted and a warning had been giving to the entire population, similar simple precautionary actions could have vastly reduced the number of injuries. Children who were not in her class were injured. \n\nIf a more severe impact is predicted, the response may require evacuation of the area, or an avoidance mission to repel the asteroid. According to expert testimony in the United States Congress in 2013, NASA would require at least five years of preparation before a mission to intercept an asteroid could be launched.\n\nThe ellipses in the diagram on the right show the likely asteroid position at closest Earth approach. At first, with only a few asteroid observations, the error ellipse is very large and includes the Earth. Further observations shrink the error ellipse, but it still includes the Earth. This raises the predicted impact probability, since the Earth now covers a larger fraction of the error region. Finally, yet more observations (often radar observations, or discovery of a previous sighting of the same asteroid on archival images) shrink the ellipse until the Earth is outside the error region, and the impact probability returns to near zero.\n\nFor asteroids that are actually on track to hit Earth the predicted probability of impact gets higher as more observations are made.\n\nBelow is the list of all near-Earth objects which impacted the Earth and were successfully predicted beforehand. This list also includes any objects which have been identified as having greater than 50% chance of impacting in the future, however none of the future impacts have yet been identified. As asteroid detection ability increases it is expected that prediction will become more successful in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19044817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19044817", "title": "Astra 23.5°E", "text": "Astra 23.5°E\n\nAstra 23.5°E is a group of Astra communications satellites co-located at the 23.5° east position in the Clarke Belt owned and operated by SES based in Betzdorf, Luxembourg. 23.5° east is one of the major TV satellite positions serving Europe (the others being at 19.2° East, 13° East, 28.2° East, and 5° East).\n\nThe satellite currently occupying this position is the Astra 3B craft, which provide for services downlinking in the 10.70 GHz-12.70 GHz range of the K band and 21.40-22.00 GHz range of the K band across most of Central, Western and Eastern Europe and the Middle East.\n\nA major reason for the usage of Astra 23.5°E as a source for direct-to-home (DTH) broadcasting is its proximity to Europe’s primary DTH position, Astra 19.2°E, allowing the use in target countries of a single small dish fitted with a monoblock Duo LNB to receive channels from both positions.\n\n\n\nAstra 23.5°E is a major source of TV and radio channels and multimedia services for parts of Europe. While the satellite Astra 3B can reach most parts of the continent, this position is primarily used for channels broadcast to the countries of Northwestern, Central and Eastern Europe, in particular: Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Netherlands, and Slovakia.\n\nA service of local, regional and ethnic channels for Italy is expected from this orbital position following an agreement in November 2009 between SES and Milano Teleport to offer capacity to Italian broadcasters.\n\nTV channels for (DTH) networks, Canal Digitaal (Netherlands), TV Vlaanderen (Belgium, Flanders), CS Link (Slovakia and Czech Republic), Skylink (Slovakia and Czech Republic) and Satellite BG (Bulgaria), broadcast from this position. In all, over 390 TV and radio channels are broadcast from Astra 23.5°E to almost 2.5 million homes in Europe.\n\nIn January 2011 Astra announced that Bulgarian DTH operator Satellite BG would use three transponders on Astra 3B at 23.5°E for broadcasting a package of more than 60 standard definition channels and 12 high definition channels, including sports, film, factual and children’s TV, and all major Bulgarian public and commercial services to TV homes across Bulgaria.\n\nAstra 23.5°E was the home of Euro1080, Europe’s first full-time commercial HDTV broadcaster since January 1, 2004, until they moved their channels to Eutelsat W3A (7° east) in late 2008.\n\nThe Astra 23.5°E position is also home to Astra Connect (was ASTRA2Connect), a two-way satellite broadband service that delivers high-speed Internet access and triple-play capabilities to consumers in Europe.\n\nAs of the end of 2016, the Astra satellites at 23.5° east broadcast 244 channels (148 in SD, 95 in HD, 1 in UHD) to 35 million households \n\nThe 23.5° east orbital position was first occupied by the DFS-Kopernikus 1 and DFS-Kopernikus 3 satellites, launched in June 1989 and October 1992, respectively, to provide channel feeds to German cable headends for Deutsche Bundespost (later, Deutsche Telekom). DFS-Kopernikus 1 was first positioned at 23.5° east and then moved to 33.5° east with the launch of DFS-Kopernikus 3. As DFS-Kopernikus 3 neared the end of its life, an agreement was reached with Deutsche Telekom for SES to use the German position and frequencies, and in August 2001, Astra 1D was moved to 23.5° east to provide follow-on capacity for DFS-Kopernikus F3 pending the launch of Astra 3A.\n\nAstra 3A was launched in March 2002 to open the Astra 23.5°E position, and Deutsche Telekom contracted for 10 transponders, with all traffic on the old DFS-Kopernikus craft switched to Astra 3A.\n\nWith the establishment of Astra 1L at the Astra 19.2°E position in July 2007, Astra 1E was released from 19.2° east and moved to Astra 23.5°E to replace Astra 1D, which was approaching the end of its design life.\n\nFollowing the launch of Astra 1M to the Astra 19.2°E position in November 2008, Astra 1G was moved from 19.2° east to Astra 23.5°E in February 2009 to provide additional capacity.\n\nA new satellite, Astra 3B, was originally scheduled to be launched to Astra 23.5°E in the first quarter of 2010, to replace all the capacity currently at this orbital position, but was beset by launcher delays, postponed on the launch pad on March 24, 2010 and April 9, 2010 for a faulty pressure regulator in the Ariane 5 rocket's main stage. Astra 3B was finally successfully launched on May 21, 2010. and came into commercial service in June, after in-orbit testing, when Astra 1E and Astra 1G were released from service. In July 2010, Astra 1G was moved from Astra 23.5°E to Astra 31.5°E. Astra 1E remained at this position a little longer with no transponders in use, but in August 2010 it was moved westwards to Astra 5°E to provide backup for Astra 4A pending the launch of Astra 4B to that position in 2011.\n\nIn April 2011 the Thor 2 satellite moved to 23.5°E in an inclined orbit. Thor 2 was originally launched to 0.8°W on May 21, 1997 and retired from DTH service in 2008. It was leased from owners, Telenor by SES-Astra in 2008 and initially moved to the 5°E orbital position. In 2011 Thor 2 had only two active transponders, both carrying the channel, RTL Télé Lëtzebuerg. In January 2013 the Thor 2 de-orbited to the graveyard orbit.\n\nOn February 1, 2012 Kabel Deutschland ceased to use the Astra 23.5°E position for distribution, switching to its terrestrial fibre network.\n\nIn June 2013 Astra 1D left 23.5°E moving east (although it remained listed in the SES website as at this position) reaching 52.2°E as of June 30, 2013.\n\nIn November 2013, Astra 3A moved to 177°W to provide backup to SES' NSS-9 satellite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34088404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34088404", "title": "Asymmetry of the Intertropical Convergence Zone", "text": "Asymmetry of the Intertropical Convergence Zone\n\nThere are a number of explanations of the asymmetry of the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ), known by sailors as The Doldrums.\n\nThe ITCZ would be expected to overlie the geographic equator according to symmetric solar radiation. However, the ITCZ is mostly perennial in the northern hemisphere and in the eastern Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. It was originally explained by the asymmetrical distribution of continents. However, the distribution of land and ocean is severely asymmetric in the Indian Ocean, yet the ITCZ moves back and forth there between the southern and northern hemispheres. Continents surround the Indian Ocean and monsoons prevail. Where the thermocline is deeper indicates that there is a weaker interaction between atmosphere and ocean. Due to the relatively small scale and deep thermocline in the Indian Ocean, there will be less asymmetric effects. In the middle latitude Pacific and Atlantic Ocean, because of the large scale easterly wind system and the western continents boundaries, the thermocline is definitely shallower in eastern part. Thus, the asymmetry is obvious in the eastern Pacific and Atlantic Ocean. There are two factors that are acknowledged by oceanographers and meteorologists: the interactions between ocean and atmosphere and the geometries of the continents.\n\nAccording to observations, the Sea Surface Temperature (SST) of ITCZ in the Northern Hemisphere is higher than the same latitude in the Southern Hemisphere. The asymmetry of ITCZ is triggered by the asymmetric SST distribution, which has been verified by General Circulation Model (GCM).\n\nWhat is more, because the Cross Equator SST Gradient (CESG) is southward, the cross equator northward wind, which decelerates trade winds north of the equator and accelerates those south of the equator due to Coriolis force, is originated. Thus the evaporation of the northern tropics is weakened, thereby cooling down the northern tropicalSST slightly. Vice versa, SST of southern part to the equator is much reduced. Therefore, SST of northern tropical is much higher, and higher than southern tropical, by which increases the CESG. As a result, this positive feedback, which is defined as Wind-Evaporation-SST (WES) will intensify this process.\n\nIn this way, the WES keeps the ITCZ north of the equator. And the precondition of WES is the asymmetric distribution of SST, and WES also strengthens this process. According to the observation of equatorial upwelling and obvious asymmetry of the ITCZ in the Pacific and Atlantic, it is inferred that it is the equatorial upwelling that prevents the ITCZ being created at the equator. To explain this simply, upwelling brings cold water to the surface, which will cool the above atmosphere and make it stable because of relative high air density due to low temperature. Thus, this area of the equator is different compared to the strong vertical convection and abundant precipitation of the ITCZ. As a result, the SST is latitudinally asymmetric.\n"}
{"id": "18952975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18952975", "title": "Atacama Desert", "text": "Atacama Desert\n\nThe Atacama Desert () is a desert plateau in South America covering a 1000-km (600-mi) strip of land on the Pacific coast, west of the Andes mountains. The Atacama desert is one of the driest places in the world (the driest being the McMurdo Dry Valleys ) , as well as the only true desert to receive less precipitation than the polar deserts. According to estimates, the Atacama Desert occupies , or if the barren lower slopes of the Andes are included. Most of the desert is composed of stony terrain, salt lakes (\"salares\"), sand, and felsic lava that flows towards the Andes.\n\nThe desert owes its extreme aridity to a constant temperature inversion due to the cool north-flowing Humboldt ocean current, and to the presence of the strong Pacific anticyclone. The most arid region of the Atacama desert is situated between two mountain chains (the Andes and the Chilean Coast Range) of sufficient height to prevent moisture advection from either the Pacific or the Atlantic Oceans, a two-sided rain shadow.\n\nAccording to the World Wide Fund for Nature, the Atacama Desert ecoregion occupies a continuous strip for nearly 1,600 km along the narrow coast of the northern third of Chile, from near Arica (18°24'S) southward to near La Serena (29°55'S). The National Geographic Society considers the coastal area of southern Peru to be part of the Atacama Desert and also includes the deserts south of the Ica Region in Peru.\n\nPeru borders it on the north and the Chilean Matorral ecoregion borders it on the south. To the east lies the less arid Central Andean dry puna ecoregion. The drier portion of this ecoregion is located south of the Loa River between the parallel Sierra Vicuña Mackenna and Cordillera Domeyko. To the north of the Loa lies the Pampa del Tamarugal.\n\nThe Coastal Cliff of northern Chile west of the Chilean Coast Range is the main topographical feature of the coast. The geomorphology of the Atacama Desert has been characterized as a low-relief bench \"similar to a giant uplifted terrace\" by Armijo and co-workers.\nThe intermediate depression (or Central Valley) forms a series of endorheic basins in much of Atacama Desert south of latitude 19°30'S. North of this latitude, the intermediate depression drains into the Pacific Ocean.\n\nAlthough the almost total lack of precipitation is the most prominent characteristic of the Atacama Desert, exceptions may occur. In July 2011, an extreme Antarctic cold front broke through the rain shadow, bringing of snow to the plateau, stranding residents across the region, particularly in Bolivia, where many drivers became stuck in snow drifts and emergency crews became overtaxed with a large number of rescue calls.\n\nIn 2012, the altiplano winter brought floods to San Pedro de Atacama.\n\nOn 25 March 2015, heavy rainfall affected the southern part of the Atacama Desert. Resulting floods triggered mudflows that affected the cities of Copiapo, Tierra Amarilla, Chanaral, and Diego de Almagro, causing the deaths of more than 100 people.\n\nThe Atacama Desert is commonly known as the driest nonpolar place in the world, especially the surroundings of the abandoned Yungay town (in Antofagasta Region, Chile). The average rainfall is about per year, although some locations, such as Arica and Iquique, receive in a year. Moreover, some weather stations in the Atacama have never received rain. Periods up to four years have been registered with no rainfall in the central sector, delimited by the cities of Antofagasta, Calama, and Copiapó, in Chile. Evidence suggests that the Atacama may not have had any significant rainfall from 1570 to 1971.\n\nThe Atacama Desert may be the oldest desert on earth, and has experienced extreme hyperaridity for at least 3 million years, making it the oldest continuously arid region on earth. The long history of aridity raises the possibility that supergene mineralisation, under the appropriate conditions, can form in arid environments, instead of requiring humid conditions. Geological research suggests that in some sections of the Atacama Desert, such as in today's Chile, hyperaridity has persisted for the last 200 million years (since the Triassic), competing only with Africa's Namib Desert for such a title.\n\nThe Atacama is so arid that many mountains higher than are completely free of glaciers. Only the highest peaks (such as Ojos del Salado, Monte Pissis, and Llullaillaco) have some permanent snow coverage.\n\nThe southern part of the desert, between 25 and 27°S, may have been glacier-free throughout the Quaternary (including during glaciations), though permafrost extends down to an altitude of and is continuous above . Studies by a group of British scientists have suggested that some river beds have been dry for 120,000 years. However, some locations in the Atacama receive a marine fog known locally as the \"camanchaca\", providing sufficient moisture for hypolithic algae, lichens, and even some cacti—the genus \"Copiapoa\" is notable among these.\n\nGeographically, the aridity of the Atacama is explained by it being situated between two mountain chains (the Andes and the Chilean Coast Range) of sufficient height to prevent moisture advection from either the Pacific or the Atlantic Oceans, a two-sided rain shadow.\n\nIn a region about south of Antofagasta, which averages in elevation, the soil has been compared to that of Mars. Owing to its otherworldly appearance, the Atacama has been used as a location for filming Mars scenes, most notably in the television series \"\".\n\nIn 2003, a team of researchers published a report in which they duplicated the tests used by the \"Viking 1 \"and\" Viking 2\" Mars landers to detect life, and were unable to detect any signs in Atacama Desert soil in the region of Yungay. The region may be unique on Earth in this regard, and is being used by NASA to test instruments for future Mars missions. The team duplicated the Viking tests in Mars-like Earth environments and found that they missed present signs of life in soil samples from Antarctic dry valleys, the Atacama Desert of Chile and Peru, and other locales.\nHowever, in 2014, a new hyperarid site was reported, María Elena South, which was much drier than Yungay, and thus, a better Mars-like environment.\nIn 2008, the \"Phoenix Mars Lander\" detected perchlorates on the surface of Mars at the same site where water was first discovered. Perchlorates are also found in the Atacama and associated nitrate deposits have contained organics, leading to speculation that signs of life on Mars are not incompatible with perchlorates. The Atacama is also a testing site for the NASA-funded Earth–Mars Cave Detection Program.\n\nIn spite of the geographic and climatic conditions of the desert, a rich variety of flora has evolved there. Over 500 species have been gathered within the border of this desert. These species are characterized by their extraordinary ability to adapt to this extreme environment. Most common species are the herbs and flowers such as thyme, llareta, and saltgrass (\"Distichlis spicata\"), and where humidity is sufficient, trees such as the chañar (\"Geoffroea decorticans\"), the pimiento tree, and the leafy algarrobo (\"Prosopis chilensis\").\n\nThe llareta is one of the highest-growing wood species in the world. It is found at altitudes between . Its dense form is similar to a pillow some thick. It concentrates and retains the heat from the day to cope with low evening temperatures. The growth rate of the llareta has been recently estimated at about 1.5 cm per year, making many llaretas over 3,000 years old. It produces a much-prized resin, which the mining industry once harvested indiscriminately as fuel, making this plant endangered.\n\nThe desert is also home to cacti, succulents, and other plants that thrive in a dry climate. Cactus species here include the candelabro (\"Browningia candelaris\") and cardon (\"Echinopsis atacamensis\"), which can reach a height of and a diameter of .\n\nThe Atacama Desert flowering (Spanish: \"desierto florido\") can be seen from September to November in years with sufficient precipitation, as happened in 2015.\n\nThe climate of the Atacama Desert limits the number of animals living permanently in this extreme ecosystem. Some parts of the desert are so arid, no plant or animal life can survive. Outside of these extreme areas, sand-colored grasshoppers blend with pebbles on the desert floor, and beetles and their larvae provide a valuable food source in the \"lomas\" (hills). Desert wasps and butterflies can be found during the warm and humid season, especially on the lomas. Red scorpions also live in the desert.\n\nA unique environment is provided by some \"lomas\", where the fog from the ocean provides enough moisture for seasonal plants and a few animal species. Surprisingly few reptile species inhabit the desert and even fewer amphibian species. \"Chaunus atacamensis\", the Vallenar toad or Atacama toad, lives on the \"lomas\", where it lays eggs in permanent ponds or streams. Iguanas and lava lizards inhabit parts of the desert, while salt flat lizards, \"Liolaemus\", live in the dry areas bordering the ocean. One species, \"Liolaemus fabiani\", is endemic to the Salar de Atacama, the Atacama salt flat.\n\nBirds are probably the largest animal group in the Atacama. Humboldt penguins live year-round along the coast, nesting in desert cliffs overlooking the ocean. On salt flats both near the Pacific and inland, Andean flamingos flock to eat algae. Other birds (including species of hummingbirds and sparrows) visit the \"lomas\" seasonally to feed on insects, nectar, seeds, and flowers. The \"lomas\" help sustain several threatened species, such as the endangered Chilean woodstar.\n\nBecause of the desert's extreme aridity, only a few specially adapted mammal species live in the Atacama, such as Darwin's leaf-eared mouse. The less arid parts of the desert are inhabited by the South American gray fox and the viscacha (a relative of the chinchilla). Larger animals, such as guanacos and vicuñas, graze in areas where grass grows, mainly because it is seasonally irrigated by melted snow. Vicuñas need to remain near a steady water supply, while guanacos can roam into more arid areas and survive longer without fresh water. Seals and sea lions often gather along the coast.\n\nThe Atacama is sparsely populated, with most towns located along the Pacific coast. In interior areas, oases and some valleys have been populated for millennia and were the location of the most advanced pre-Columbian societies found in Chile.\n\nThe Chinchorro culture developed in the Atacama Desert area from 7,000 to 1,500 BCE. These peoples were sedentary fishermen inhabiting mostly coastal areas. Their presence is found from today's towns of Ilo, in southern Peru, to Antofagasta in northern Chile. Presence of fresh water in the arid region on the coast facilitated human settlement in these areas. The Chinchorro were famous for their detailed mummification and funerary practices.\n\nIn later times, the Atacama oases experienced little population growth and urban development. During the 20th century, they have had conflicts over water resources with the coastal cities and the mining industry.\n\nSan Pedro de Atacama, at about elevation, is like many of the small towns. Before the Inca empire and prior to the arrival of the Spanish, the extremely arid interior was inhabited primarily by the Atacameño tribe. They are noted for building fortified towns called \"pucarás\", one of which is located a few kilometers from San Pedro de Atacama. The town's church was built by the Spanish in 1577.\n\nThe coastal cities originated in the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries during the time of the Spanish Empire, when they emerged as shipping ports for silver produced in Potosí and other mining centers. During the 19th century, the desert came under control of Bolivia, Chile, and Peru. With the discovery of sodium nitrate deposits and as a result of unclear borders, the area soon became a zone of conflict and resulted in the War of the Pacific. Chile annexed most of the desert, and cities along the coast developed into international ports, hosting many Chilean workers who migrated there.\n\nWith the guano and saltpeter booms of the 19th century, the population grew immensely, mostly as a result of immigration from central Chile. In the 20th century, the nitrate industry declined and at the same time, the largely male population of the desert became increasingly problematic for the Chilean state. Miners and mining companies came into conflict, and protests spread throughout the region.\n\nThe desert has rich deposits of copper and other minerals and the world's largest natural supply of sodium nitrate, which was mined on a large scale until the early 1940s. The Atacama border dispute over these resources between Chile and Bolivia began in the 19th century and resulted in the War of the Pacific.\n\nThe desert is littered with about 170 abandoned nitrate (or \"saltpeter\") mining towns, almost all of which were shut down decades after the invention of synthetic nitrate in Germany at the turn of the 20th century (see Haber process). The towns include Chacabuco, Humberstone, Santa Laura, Pedro de Valdivia, Puelma, María Elena, and Oficina Anita.\n\nThe Atacama Desert is rich in metallic mineral resources such as copper, gold, silver and iron, as well as nonmetallic minerals including important deposits of boron, lithium, sodium nitrate, and potassium salts. The Salar de Atacama is where bischofite is extracted. These resources are exploited by various mining companies such as Codelco, Lomas Bayas, Mantos Blancos, and Soquimich.\n\nBecause of its high altitude, nearly nonexistent cloud cover, dry air, and lack of light pollution and radio interference from widely populated cities and towns, this desert is one of the best places in the world to conduct astronomical observations. The European Southern Observatory operates two major observatories in the Atacama:\n\nA new radio astronomy telescope, called the Atacama Large Millimeter Array, built by European countries, Japan, the United States, Canada, and Chile in the Llano de Chajnantor Observatory officially opened on 3 October 2011. A number of radio astronomy projects, such as the CBI, the ASTE and the ACT, among others, have been operating in the Chajnantor area since 1999.\n\nThe Atacama Desert is popular with all-terrain sports enthusiasts. Various championships have taken place here, including the Lower Atacama Rally, Lower Chile Rally, Patagonia-Atacama Rally, and the latter Dakar Rally's editions. The rally was organized by the Amaury Sport Organisation and held in 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012. The dunes of the desert are ideal rally races located in the outskirts of the city of Copiapó. The 2013 Dakar 15-Day Rally started on 5 January in Lima, Peru, through Chile, Argentina and back to Chile finishing in Santiago. Visitors also use the Atacama Desert sand dunes for sandboarding (Spanish: \"duna\").\n\nA week-long foot race called the Atacama Crossing has the competitors cross the various landscapes of the Atacama.\n\nAn event called Volcano Marathon takes place near the Lascar volcano in the Atacama Desert.\n\nEighteen solar powered cars were displayed in front of the presidential palace (\"La Moneda\") in Santiago in November 2012. The cars were then raced through the desert from 15–19 November 2012.\n\nMost people who go to tour the sites in the desert stay in the town of San Pedro de Atacama. The Atacama Desert is in the top three tourist locations in Chile. The specially commissioned ESO hotel is reserved for astronomers.\n\nAbout 80 geysers occur in a valley about 80 km from the town of San Pedro de Atacama. They are closer to the town of Chiu Chiu.\n\nThe Baños de Puritama are rock pools which are 37 miles from the geysers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7948840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7948840", "title": "Bhūmi", "text": "Bhūmi\n\nBhūmi or Bhūmī-Devī is the Hindu goddess representing Mother Earth. She is the consort of the boar god Varaha, an avatar of Vishnu. Bhumi is the daughter of Prajapati.\n\nShe is known by various names such as Bhuma-Devi, Bhuvati, Bhuvaani, Bhuvaneshwari, Avni, Prithvi, Dharti, Dhaatri, Dharani, Vasudha, Vasundhara, Vaishnavi, Kashyapi, Urvi, Ira, Mahi, Ela, Vasumati, Dhanshika, Hema, and Hiranmaya. She is worshipped in patala and is depicted as seated on a platform which rests on the back of four elephants, representing the four directions of the world. She is usually depicted with four arms, holding a pomegranate, a water vessel, a bowl containing healing herbs and another containing vegetables. She is also sometimes depicted with two hands, one holding a blue lotus known as Kumuda or Utpala, the night lotus, and in the right hand and the left hand may be in the Abhaya Mudra, fearlessness or the Lolahasta Mudra which is an aesthetic pose meant to mimic the tail of a horse.\n"}
{"id": "1947920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947920", "title": "Billion years", "text": "Billion years\n\nA billion years (10 years) is a unit of time on the petasecond scale, more precisely equal to seconds.\n\nIt is sometimes abbreviated Gy, Ga (\"giga-annum\"), Byr and variants. The abbreviations Gya or bya are for \"billion years ago\", i.e. billion years before present. \nThe terms are used in geology, paleontology, geophysics, astronomy and physical cosmology.\n\nThe prefix giga- is preferred over billion- to avoid confusion in the long and short scales over the meaning of billion; the postfix annum may be further qualified for precision as a sidereal year or Julian year:\n\nByr was formerly used in English-language geology and astronomy as a unit of one billion years. Subsequently, the term gigaannum (Ga) has increased in usage, with Gy or Gyr still sometimes used in English-language works (at the risk of confusion with Gy as abbreviation for the gray, a unit of radiation exposure). Astronomers use Gyr or Gy as an abbreviation for gigayear.\n\n"}
{"id": "614874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614874", "title": "Catalina Sky Survey", "text": "Catalina Sky Survey\n\nCatalina Sky Survey (CSS; obs. code: 703) is an astronomical survey to discover comets and asteroids. It is conducted at the Steward Observatory's Catalina Station, located near Tucson, Arizona, in the United States.\n\nCSS focuses on the search for near-Earth objects, in particular on any potentially hazardous asteroid that may pose a threat of impact. Its counterpart in the southern hemisphere was the Siding Spring Survey (SSS), closed in 2013 due to loss of funding. CSS supersedes the photographic Bigelow Sky Survey.\n\nThe NEO Observations Program is a result of a United States 1998 congressional directive to NASA to begin a program to identify 1 kilometre (0.62 mile) or larger objects to around 90 percent confidence level or better. The Catalina Sky Survey, located at the Mount Lemmon Observatory in the Catalina Mountains north of Tucson, carries out searches for near-earth objects, NEOs, contributing to the Congressionally mandated goal.\n\nIn addition to identifying impact risks, the project also obtains other scientific information, including: improving the known population distribution in the main belt, finding the cometary distribution at larger perihelion distances, determining the distribution of NEOs as a product of collisional history and transport to the inner Solar System, and identifying potential targets for flight projects.\n\nThe Catalina Sky Survey (CSS) uses two telescopes, a 1.5 meter (60 inch) f/2 telescope on the peak of Mount Lemmon, and a 68 cm (27 inch) f/ 1.7 Schmidt telescope near Mount Bigelow (both in the Tucson, Arizona area). The CSS southern hemisphere counterpart, the Siding Spring Survey (SSS), used a 0.5 meter (20 inch) f/3 Uppsala Schmidt telescope at Siding Spring Observatory in Australia. All sites use identical, thermo-electrically cooled cameras and common software that was written by the CSS team. The cameras are cooled to approximately −100 °C (−148 °F) so their dark current is about 1 electron per hour. These 4096×4096 pixel cameras provide a field of view of 1 degree square on with the 1.5-m telescope and nearly 9 square degrees with the Catalina Schmidt. Nominal exposures are 30 seconds and the 1.5-m can reach objects fainter than 21.5 V in that time.\n\nCSS typically operates every clear night with the exception of a few nights centered on the full moon. The southern hemispheres' SSS in Australia ended in 2013 after funding was discontinued.\n\nIn 2005, CSS became the most prolific NEO survey surpassing Lincoln Near-Earth Asteroid Research (LINEAR) in total number of NEOs and potentially hazardous asteroids discovered each year since. CSS discovered 310 NEOs in 2005, 396 in 2006, 466 in 2007, and in 2008 564 NEOs were found.\n\nFor a complete listing of all minor planets discovered by the Catalina Sky Survey, \"see the index section in list of minor planets\".\n\nThe CSS team is headed by Eric Christensen of the Lunar and Planetary Laboratory of the University of Arizona.\n\nThe full CSS team is:\n\n\nThe CSS has helped with Astronomy Camp showing campers how they detect NEOs. They even played a role in an astrophotography exercise with the 2006 Adult Astronomy Camp ending up with a picture that was featured on Astronomy Picture of the Day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1221268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1221268", "title": "Dip slope", "text": "Dip slope\n\nA dip slope is a topographic (geomorphic) surface which slopes in the same direction, and often by the same amount, as the true dip or apparent dip of the underlying strata. A dip slope consists of the upper surface of a resistant layer of rock, often called \"caprock\", that is commonly only slightly lowered and reduced in steepness by erosion. Dip slopes form the backslopes of cuestas, homoclinal ridges, hogbacks, and flatirons. The frontslopes of such ridges consist of either an escarpment, a steep slope, or perhaps even a line of cliffs. Generally, cuestas and homoclinal ridges are asymmetrical in that their dip slopes are less steep than their escarpments. In the case of hogbacks and flatirons, the dip of the rocks is so steep that their dip slope approaches the escarpment in their steepness.\nDip slopes are the result of the differential erosion of strata of varying resistance to erosion that are dipping uniformly in one direction. In this case, strata, i.e. shale, mudstone, and marl, that are less resistant to erosion are preferentially eroded relative to stronger strata, i.e. sandstone, limestone, and dolomite, that are more resistant to erosion. As a result, the less resistant strata will be eroded away leaving the more resistant strata as a caprock forming the dip slope (backslope) of a ridge that slopes in the direction of caprock. When this happens to flat-lying beds, landforms such as plateaus, mesas, and buttes are formed. The erosion of tilted beds will form landforms called cuestas, homoclinal ridges, hogbacks, and flatirons. Plateaus, mesas, and buttes have flat tops, while cuestas and homoclinal ridges are asymmetrical (~flat) areas w/ridges. The less steep side (at the low point) is their dip slope (intersecting 'ground' surface, and disappearing underground) and the steeper other side (the opposite, and at the high point) is their escarpment. In case of hogbacks, the steepness of the dip slope and escarpment will be about the same. Dip slopes can also be formed by igneous structures such as sills.\n\nSome dip slopes are quite prone to landslides, due to the dipping strata that underlie them. Large sheets of rock have a tendency to slide down dip slopes.\n\n"}
{"id": "923976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=923976", "title": "Earth (Foundation universe)", "text": "Earth (Foundation universe)\n\nThis article is on the history of Earth, as presented in Isaac Asimov's \"Foundation\" series, \"Robot\" series, and \"Empire\" series.\n\nHumans from Earth colonize the Spacer and, later, Settler planets; an anti-Earth plot causes the planet's crust to become radioactive, greatly reducing its population. Many small empires rise and fall throughout the Milky Way Galaxy as various worlds trade with and fight each other. Over time one planet, Trantor, founds a true Galactic Empire. By then Earth is only one of millions of member worlds, and the radioactivity makes it a quarantined backwater; by 827 G.E. (Galactic Era, the number of years after the empire's founding), the setting of \"Pebble in the Sky\", only 20 million people live on Earth. Most non-Earthlings are skeptical of the scholarly theory that the obscure planet is the original home of all humans, believing that humans evolved on many planets simultaneously. By 12000 G.E., the setting of the \"Foundation\" series, although many believe that humanity originated on one planet, Earth is one of several candidates.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBut why is Earth radioactive? In the Afterword to \"Grow Old Along With Me\" in \"The Alternate Asimovs\", Asimov explains:\nThis was retained when \"Grow Old Along With Me\" became \"Pebble In The Sky\", published in 1950. When Asimov returned to his future history with \"Foundation's Edge\" (1982), he no longer thought a nuclear war could make the crust radioactive without destroying all life. Instead, he assumed that the crust of the planet was deliberately made increasingly radioactive.\n\nIn \"Robots and Empire\", he establishes how the Earth was deliberately made radioactive, by a Levular Mandamus, a Spacer attempting to cripple Earthborn and Settler attempts at colonization. Instead, the net result, as is hinted in various books, is that the Settlers, unattached to their \"holy\" homeworld of Earth, are further driven to colonize and thus go on to establish the Galactic Empire, all but crowding Spacer culture out of the Galaxy.\n"}
{"id": "40715370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40715370", "title": "Eastern Arc forests", "text": "Eastern Arc forests\n\nThe Eastern Arc Forests is a montane tropical moist forest ecoregion of eastern Africa. The ecoregion comprises several separate areas above 1000 meters in the mountains of Kenya, and (mostly) Tanzania. \n\nThe Eastern Arc forests extend across a total of 9,200 square miles of mountainous landscape from the Taita Hills on the border of the two countries, through eastern Tanzania to the Udzungwa Mountains and Mount Rungwe. The ecoregion includes the Taita Hills, the North and South Pare Mountains, the East and West Usambara Mountains, the North and South Nguru Mountains, the Ukaguru, the Uluguru, the Rubeho, and the Udzungwas, as well as Mahenge to the south of the Udzungwas, Malundwe Hill in Mikumi, and the Uvidundwa Mountains north of the Udzungwas.\n\nThese hills are home to many endemic species including over 800 plants, and are the original homeland of the African violet (Saintpaulia) and the Busy Lizzie (Impatiens).\n\nThe ecoregion is rich in wildlife with many endemic species of birds, and some mammals, while endemic amphibians include five species of reed frogs (Hyperolius), two species of forest treefrogs (Leptopelis), five tree toads (Nectophrynoides), four species of Microhylidae, and five Caeciliidae. Endemic reptiles include ten species of chameleons (seven Chamaeleo and three Rhampholeon), three worm snakes (Typhlops), and six Colubridae snakes. Invertebrates show very high levels of endemism too. Furthermore, study of the wildlife on these isolated hills is important for research into evolutionary pathways. \n\nThese wet hillsides are highly populated with farming communities and most forest has been lost, especially on the lower slopes. The largest protected area is Udzungwa Mountains National Park and there are also protected areas around a number of reservoirs, as this region is central to Tanzania's water supply.\n"}
{"id": "42091707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42091707", "title": "Economy of Gjilan", "text": "Economy of Gjilan\n\nThe municipality of Gjilan is in the Anamorava Macroregion of Kosovo, with 42 villages a part of it. Due to the overall increase in economic development, Gjilan has become a known administrative, commercial and industrial region. Territory of Gjilan's municipality currently has an area of 391 km with approximately 130,000 residents. The entire territory owns about 24,230 hectares of farmland, from which 18,224 hectares are considered to be agricultural land which produce a variety of traditional crops. Gjilan is well posiitoned geographically as an administrative unit. Automobile highways roads permit good communication and movement of goods and people, connecting with Prishtina, Vitia, Ferizaj, Kamenica, Bujanovac, and other centers of Kosovo. Thus, Gjilan was and is an important strategic center that has an economic impact to the region.\nNatural resources in the region have been exploited since the Middle Ages. Notable resources include potassium, magnesium, and the thermal mineral water, or \"hot springs\".\n\nHistorically, Gjilan’s economy was based mostly on agriculture. Land was worked with simple and primitive tools, producing low agriculture yield. Most production was for domestic consumption, not export.\nRegional agricultural output traditionally included: poultry, livestock, handicrafts, arboriculture, vegetable production.\n\nAfter World War II, industrial development was initiated in the municipality. This was achieved in particular by raising tobacco combine. Favorable climatic conditions, soil solvency, commitment and massification of farmers, led to the development of this industrial branch. During 80 years in Combine tobacco are produced about 1,156 tons of fermented tobacco and cigarettes around 1,400 tons of various assortment of high quality. Alongside the development of the tobacco industry was also the textile industry, which Gjilan was recognized and affirmed in the domestic and external market. It can be said that through this industrial branch in Gjilan then identified as the industrial city. During the 1970s, industrial production was concentrated in the tobacco industry, textile, flour, in agro-industry, in the steelworks in the construction material industry, and radiators. After 1980 is also investing in a range of other branches of economic activity in which they were raised and developed other objects of industrial capacity.\n\nGjilan has a long tradition in construction, in 1980 employing over 2,000 people. This upward momentum in \neconomic activity in the housing construction sector\nalso extended throughout Kosovo and beyond, extending also to other Kosovo municipalities.\nA good road network provides good connections to Gjilan surrounding \nvillages as well as other parts of Kosovo and the region.\nThe construction of a ring road reduced traffic within\nthe city. With - Project Mobility II is foreseen urban traffic \norganization of Gjilan.\n\nTrade, even as branch of economics has a long tradition in Gjilan.\nTrade in this region increased after\nWorld War II. As a result of rapid development were created \nfirst commercial enterprises among which are mentioned company \nNovember 28, which had extended a network of shops in most \nlocalities in Anamorava and abroad.\nWithin this sector is a well-established mall that was to be \nvery important for the supply of goods to citizens.\nPrivate economy - potential economic development in general. \nIn a free market economy, the private sector is an important\ncomponents of economic development. \nin the Gjilan region, private sector development increased in the 1980s and 1990s, after liberation.\nIn this period Gjilan businessmen began to invest in various industries. In this regard are set up several production \ncompanies as: Fluidi, Dea, Ola, RC cola etc..\nFollowing is a list of other private sector manufacturing \nenterprises of the Gjilan economy by economic activity.\nSuch as wood industry: Kosovo Mobileria, ―Diellza, ―Fanton ―Niti, ―Kulla, ―Gëzimi, ―Bardhi, ―Përparimi,―Vllaznimi, ―Niki. \nTEXTILE INDUSTRY : ―Dita Gsh, ―Diti Xhani, ―Brilant, ―Eksomor, ―Solid, ―Tekom,―Menakon. \nMETAL INDUSTRY: ―Al Besimi,―Abyl Metal,―Lesna Dekon, Vali AL PVC ―Përparimi, ―Dritakos, ―Kosovaplas, ―Aldeti, ―Lindi Dea, ―Euro plast, Flora PVC, ―Aletriti, ―Besi, ―Beni, ―Rinasi, ―Çeliku, ―Mehuka, ―Omorina. \nCONSTRUCTION MATERIAL INDUSTRY : ―Bejta Company, ―Alkos Company, \n―Lindi, ―Globi, ―Blerimi, ―Fontana, ―MEN, ―Tafa.\n\nThe development of the banking system. Banking system in the municipality of Gjilan is based on free market economy and private capital.\nOwners of private banks are mainly from abroad and they own about 96% stake, while 4% of the shares belong to the local capital.\nA few commercial banks began operating from the beginning: Kasabanka New Bank Of Kosovo, 1. NLB, 2.BpB Private Business Bank, 3.Commerce Bank, 4.MEB become Pro Credit Bank, 5.Raiffeisen Bank 6.National Commercial Bank, 7.TEB \nBank, then microfinance institutions and insurance companies.\nIn addition to commercial banks and microfinance institutions in Gjilan, there are 8 functioning insurance companies which conduct financial activities and services,\namong which are the following companies: 1.Dukagjini, 2.Dardania, 3.Kosova e re, 4.Siguria, 5.Sigal, 6.UNIQA GRUP AUSTRIA, 7. Insig dhe 8.Sigma.\nInsurance companies began operating in Gjilan since 2002. These companies have received their licenses from the BPK (Banking and Payment Authority of Kosovo) and operate under the rules in force.\nThese insurance companies have their own products, which have defined and exercise their activities and operations.\n\nCraftsmanship and its role in economy\nGenerally viewed the craft activity appears to be ancient as human economic activity. This place usually exercised mainly in the urban centers.\nFor Anamorava, craftsmanship has been developed mainly in cities, as in Gjilan, Preshevo and Bujanoc. Gjilan main space center of Anamorava and beyond, once represented a small town with all the characteristics of an oriental town.\nObviously today in Gjilan main urban center of the area, craftsmanship it no longer has a role it had in past centuries, but transformed into similar activities of other nature, even today is shown its important role in the lives of residents, the relevant are.\nNow we give some brief information about the development of craftsmanship in Gjilan surroundings. From the very beginning there was little consideration given little written documents, but also memory, verbal confession respectively anthropology help in this regard.\nIf we start from some old craft, that were once productive, give products as evidence of artifacts that are produced by the human hand.\nAccording to data for the years 1914-1928, the craftsmanship speak for many types of crafts, 1914 in Gjilan recorded three jewelry stores. In Gjilan even today there are many shops of jewelry. Currently operating 33 stores of gold and jeweler in Gjilan.\n\nUntil 70 years, agriculture was severely underdeveloped in Gjilan. The land is mostly manual work and with primitive tools. Usage seeds for planting are traditional, qualitative and not productive, while extensive livestock breeds dominated and low productivity. In 70 years, agriculture marks are more intensive development. In this period, gains momentum social sector development in combines was organized in cooperatives and agricultural stations such as Station for the Advancement of Agriculture, Agricultural Combine, Agricultural Cooperatives, Tobacco Plant, City Butchery for small animals and thick, birds Incubator for opening capacity of 9 million birds a year, freezer for fruit trees, veterinarian service stations etc. All these agrarian subjects had employed around 4,000 permanent workers and about 10,000 seasonal workers. The entire agricultural production was well organized and had an export even in western countries. This trend of development continues until the end of 80, when the application of violent measures starts in Kosovo in undertaking and starts dismissals of all Albanian workers, replaced by Serbs, inexperienced and uninterested to work. The aim of the Serbian occupation, colonization and looting was the destruction of agriculture that was set up and developed with farmers toil and sweat of Albanian workers. War of 1999, in addition to the effects on people, nonrefundable damage caused to agriculture and the economy in general. After liberation farmers began work in very difficult conditions, without tools and without the machine working properly. In the meantime, the government was not properly consolidated. For central and local institutions did not have the budget nor the experience needed to face the challenges of the time, on one hand, while many foreign organizations who had come to offer help in the consolidation of Kosovo agriculture acted without any clear concept and did not yield the expected results, on the other hand, agriculture suffers stagnation fore. With the start of the privatization process, the majority of the mentioned agrarian undertakings changed their destination. Only two of them as plantations in Kravarica and poultry farm in Livoc village – Konsoni maintain their subjectivity and revive their previous production. Konsoni abattoir opened for broilers with an annual capacity of 600,000 thousand kg of meat. This farm has 60 full-time employees and a certain number of seasonal worker with a bright development prospect. Two companies MOEA and Ask Food have raised capacity of orchards in area of about 200 hectares and have built processing capacities, investments these promising prospects. Ask Food has signed contracts for the export of its products to Germany, Albania etc. These two companies have approximately 150 regular employees and 200 seasonal workers.\n\nThe livestock sector includes: 14,000 head of cattle, 9,000 sheep, 4,000 goats, over 200,000 laying hens, broilers 150,000, 3,500 bees colonies, 4,500 pigs and 1,000 horses. Besides poultry farms, which had a purebred breeding other types of animals haven't given high yields in the production of meat, milk, wool and other products. Before the year 1995 in the municipality of Gjilan operated meat processing capacities, milk, wool, and incubators stations for birds, which have enabled a good agribusiness for farmers of this area. War took a heavy tool on the livestock sectors, where the entire livestock and machinery manufacturing units were completely destroyed. After liberation, some farmers recovered their farms, slowly increasing the number of heads of cows, calves, sheep, goats etc. The privatization process has also caused damage by converting agricultural land to commercial and residential properties.\n\nPlant productivity: high trees about 300 ha, 10 ha of soft fruit, 100 ha of commercial greenhouses, cereals white surface with 3500 ha, 2500 ha area with corn, other crops area with about 3500 ha. Number of farmers involved in agricultural activities, livestock is 150 orchards, 100 greenhouses, farm of dairy cows over 20 are four mini farms of dairy cows from 4 to 20 cows near 300, mini farms for obesity 6 calves, 80 sheep farms, 42 goat farms, beekeeping 100, 9 Farms chickens, farm birds for meat - 2 broilers, sports Farm 1, Vali ranch Përlepnice village. Dairying. 1.Kabi dairy with a capacity of 25,000 liters, but that collects and processes close to 10,000 liters of milk for a day. 2. Dairy Ard 1,500 liters for a day. 3.Exclusive dairy goat milk processing \"-Bioprodukt, with capacity 2000 liters for a day. III. Licensed slaughterhouses. 1.The Butchery \"Gas-2.Butchery Luli- 3.Butchery Malësia -IV. Units butchers selling meat are 10 of them, four Association, which carry out activities in various sectors of the livestock but which are much less active.\nFarm infrastructure . - In general it is not good : - Farms did not respond technological standards, especially those of cows, calves and sheep and goats, - Lack of agricultural machinery for land preparation - are not regulated landfills for disposal of manure barn that will protect the environment, - A great part of them still do not use new techniques of food production capacity manufacturing capabilities local population are very small, among which: - Milk produced only 20% of the needs of the Municipality - Beef also about 20%- bird meat 25% - eggs somewhere around 80% - 15% Honey - With the tree about 20% - With vegetables about 25% - 30% With remarkable account cereals\nFrom these data show that the municipality of Gjilan for the fulfillment of food needs of its population is somewhere near the average of Kosovo . The rest of the food, 70-80%, is imported .\n\nMunicipality of Gjilan has good nature resources as 3,000 ha meadows, pastures 4,000 ha, about 23.000Ha mountains and clean water, agricultural land also has some 10,500 ha of fodder for animals.\n\nThe strategy develops economy.\nSupporting and based on the potential of human resources, economic, natural ones, financial surface and underground, which exist in the municipality of Gjilan is necessary and reasonable increase in policy activities in order to develop economy.\nThen to achieve the objectives, goals, mission and purposes for a more rapid development of the economy is necessary to draft Economic Development Strategy of the municipality for a specified period, by observing and analyzing the competitive factors that enrich this strategy.\nThis opens strategy perspective, also is the basis for guiding the development of economic sectors and the economy in general.\nIn aspect of overall economic development strategy mainly oriented and determined for a comprehensive development of the whole territory of the municipality of Gjilan, relying on its efficient governance, which will contribute much to be in service overall development.\nCurrently, in function of development of the economy of the municipality of Gjilan operate various branches of the economy.\nWhereas, under of oriented investment strategy in the rapid development of these branches of the economy, such as: 1. Agriculture and its branches, 2. Advanced craftsmanship, 3. Industry and its branches - Mining and quarrying, underground resources - food industry - textile industry - wood industry, plastics, leather, paper, other - metal industry - chemical industry, 4. Construction, 5. Trade, 6. Tourism, 7. Financial services Banks, insurance companies, 8. Infrastructure and energy in addition present the key elements that should be incorporated into economic development strategy that identifies the characteristics of the economy of Gjilan positioned to these advantages, opportunities, weaknesses and flaws.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10674742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10674742", "title": "Edward Cowie", "text": "Edward Cowie\n\nEdward Cowie (born 17 August 1943) is an English composer, author, natural scientist, and painter.\n\nEdward Cowie was born in Birmingham, England, in 1943 and spent most of his early life in the rural countryside. This first-hand experience of nature was to have a profound influence on his life and work.\n\nIn 1964 he began composition studies with Alexander Goehr and in 1971 he won a Chopin Fellowship to study with Witold Lutosławski in Poland. He also came under the influence of Michael Tippett, who remained a close friend and mentor.\n\nEarly recognition came with the 1975 BBC Proms commission \"Leviathan\" for large orchestra, and this was followed by a string of festival commissions and recordings.\nMajor works from this period include \"Gesangbuch\" (1975-6), the \"Piano Concerto\" (1976-7) and \"Concerto for Orchestra\" (1982), as well as the opera \"Commedia\" (1976-7).\n\nIn 1983, Cowie was awarded the first Granada Composer Fellowship with the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra. He remained with the orchestra for three years and worked with them as both composer and conductor. He subsequently worked as a conductor with several major orchestras and ensembles in Britain and Australia.\n\nAmong works from this time are the \"Clarinet Concerto\" (1978), \"Choral Symphony\" (1983), \"Atlas\" (1986), \"Cello Concerto\" (1993, revised 2003) and several pieces inspired by the Australian folk-hero Ned Kelly.\n\nAfter twelve years in Australia he returned to England to live in 1995. Cowie's appointment as the first Composer in Association with the BBC Singers (2002-6) saw the completion of some of his most complex and inventive scores, including \"Gaia\" (2002), an hour-long creation epic inspired by the writings of James Lovelock and \"National Portraits\", shortlisted for the 2007 British Composer, Radio 3 Listeners' Award.\nIn May 2010 the third part (Spring) of \"Four Seasons\" for a cappella choir, a joint commission by CC21 in London and Commotio in Oxford, received its premiere. The conductor, Howard Williams, has premiered many of Cowie's works.\nHis 24 Preludes were released on UHR Label in 2008 to critical acclaim. This was followed by the release of his Magma Psalm for Harp and Wind Quartet on NMC label in March, 2010. His Rutherford's Lights, a massive cycle of 24 pieces for solo piano has just been recorded on UHR label with Richard Casey as the pianist and was released in the early autumn, 2010. It was described as 'an epic achievement' in International Piano Magazine in February 2010.\nThe Rutherford cycle was followed by his 'Partita Partita for solo Violin', a set of 8 sort pieces that trace the time-line in the history of particle physics. Collaborating first with physicist Sir Michael Berry FRS on the Rutherford Cycle, the Particle Partita was a collaboration between Cowie and particle physicist Professor Brian Foster FRS of Oxford University and CERN. \nA new collaboration has begun with Sir Michael Berry on an Oboe Quintet, 'The Colours of Dark Light', and will be premiered in the 2013/14 season with the Coull Quartet and Christopher Redgate.2013 saw celebrations of Cowie's 70th birthday with a BBC Prom commission, 'Earth Music 1' premiered by the BBC Philharmonic under Noseda. There was also a Proms Portrait Concert in the RCM and a special birthday-tribute concert given for him by the BBC Singers.\n\nThe new Signum Classics release of Cowie's 'Gesangbuch' and other choral/instrumental works was received with critical acclaim as was Earth Music 1.\n\nThe Kreutzer Quartet released the first in a series of recordings of Cowie's String Quartets, the first being quartets 3-5 and on the NMC Label.\n\n1973-83 Associate Professor of Composition, University of Lancaster <br>.\n1979 Guest Professor, University of Kassel, Germany <br>\n1978 Visiting Professor, University of Florida <br>\n1983-88 Professor and Head of the School of Creative Arts at the University of Wollongong, Australia <br>\n1989-94 Professor and Director of the Australian Arts Fusion Centre at James Cook University, Townsville <br>\n1996 -2008 Professor and Director of Research at Dartington College of Arts in Devon.\n2013 Awarded a Leverhulme Emeritus Research Fellowship for 2013-2015 for research towards two new orchestral works in the 'Earth Music' series and will include funded research trips to Africa and California in late 2014 and mid 2015\n\nIn addition to his lifelong fascination with landscape and the natural world, Cowie has acknowledged the influence on his music of the works of J.S. Bach, Haydn, Janáček, Debussy, Sibelius and Messiaen. His mature style combines elements of impressionism with intricate part-writing, intense lyrical expressiveness, tonal fluidity and rhythmic complexity. Cowie acknowledges these earlier influences whilst at the same time stressing a continued journey of exploration of new musical forms, especially those that can be discovered by a fusion of music with structural and behavioural materials derived from and inspired by both the natural sciences and physics.\n\nI\n\nIn recent times, Cowie has increasingly turned to acts of drawing and painting, in an addition to theoretical research, as primers for his music. Not having composed for orchestra for several years, he has also commenced the first of a large set of short works for large orchestra, called 'Earth Music'. He feels that the lengthy and weighty dialectic approach to earlier large-scale orchestral works, should now give way to a form of synthesis and compression, where the sensation of the music is intensified by brevity.\n\nReturning to writing for large orchestral forces in 2012, Cowie has commenced a major series of short orchestral works, none lasting more than 9'. This cycle, to be titled 'Earth Music' will open with a BBC Prom Commission for 2013 (the composer's 70th birthday year). Cowie has stated that \"I want to work with brevity in time but with great concentration and event. I have come to realise that some of our most intense experiences of (for example), the natural world, last for something around a minute or less in their most dynamic form. In removing myself from some previously practised lengthy dialectical formalism, I am going to try to engage with synthesis and compression in order to increase the sensual impact of the music.\"\n\nAlongside his rise to prominence as a musician, Cowie has exhibited internationally as a painter, and his works are in public and private collections in more than 20 countries. He has also made several television films, including his acclaimed BBC2 film on Leonardo, of 1986. In 1988 and 1989, he wrote and presented two major radio series commissioned by ABCFM, Australia. In 2002 he was created the first Artist in Residence with the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.In that same year, he became the first Composer in Association with the BBC Singers in London; a collaboration that spawned three major new works in the genre.\nDuring the late 1990s, he worked as an author of books on wildlife and the first in a major series, \"Birds Talk\", was published in 2001.\n\nDuring 2012, Cowie has commenced a major series of oil paintings on a large scale, both being a series devoted to water, the second set especially focussing on The Great Barrier Reef and which will form the structural framework for the first in his new series of orchestral works, 'Earth Music'.\n\nHe has also commenced a working relationship with military music, and is composing a new work, 'Spitfires' for the RAF choir, 'Spifire Choir' due for premiere in 2013.\nIn 2014, Cowie returned to Radio Broadcasting with a commission from ABC Radio National, Australia with a commission to present a programme on the relationships between drawing and music. 'Drawing towards Music'. As a result of its broadcast in May 2014, he is to write and present further programmes for ABC Radio National in 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38878355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38878355", "title": "Energy in Serbia", "text": "Energy in Serbia\n\nEnergy in Serbia describes energy and electricity production, consumption and import in Serbia. \n\nThe main producer of electricity in Serbia is Elektroprivreda Srbije. The company has an installed capacity of 7,662 MW and generates 38.9 TWh of electricity per year. Its installed capacity in lignite-fired thermal power plant is 4,390 MW, gas-fired and liquid fuel-fired combined heat and power plants is 336 MW, and hydro power plants is 2,936 MW. EPS is also the largest producer of lignite in Serbia operating in the Kolubara and Kostolac basins, producing around 37 million tonnes per year. Also, 20 MW is generated from wind power, mainly through facilities of MK Fintel Wind.\n\nIn order to increase the efficiency of the sector through the action of market mechanisms in the production and supply of electricity, the Serbian government has been introduced competition in the electricity sector by adopting the Law on Energy in 2004. All electricity consumers are tariff buyers which are, according to the law, provided by electricity retailer responsible to supply tariff customers within Elektroprivreda Srbije at regulated prices. At the same time buyers who meet the criteria according to the Act is given the opportunity to become a qualified buyer, and thus get the opportunity to purchase electricity on the open market. In the first phase, the electricity market has been open to all potential customers with an annual electricity consumption was above 25 GWh. From 1 January 2007, the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia made decision that the right to acquire the status of an eligible customer is available to all electricity customers with an annual consumption of more than 3 GWh.\n\nNaftna Industrija Srbije is the only company in Serbia which deals with exploration and production of crude oil and gas, as well as with production of geothermal energy. The company disposes with all necessary equipment for the performance of a whole range of complex activities such as geophysical exploration, control of production of crude oil, gas and geothermal energy. The majority of NIS oil fields are located on the territory of Serbia, in Banat region, but upstream has business operations both in Serbia and abroad. In 2011 NIS started to expand business in south-east Europe: in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Romania and Hungary.\n\nThe company owns and operates oil refineries in Pančevo (annual capacity 4.8 million tons of crude oil) and Novi Sad (annual capacity 2.6 million tons of crude oil), and natural gas refinery in Elemir. NIS refining complex produces a whole range of petroleum products - from motor gasoline and diesel fuel to mechanical lube oils and feedstock for the petrochemical industry, heavy fuel oil, road and industrial bitumen, etc.\n\nSrbijagas, public gas company, operates the natural gas transportation system which comprise 3,177 kilometers of trunk and regional natural gas pipelines and a 450 million cubic meter underground gas storage facility at Banatski Dvor. \n\nRefined petroleum products - production:\nOil - production:\nOil - consumption:\n\nOil - proved reserves:\n\nNatural gas - production:\n557 million cubic metres (2012)\n\nNatural gas - consumption:\n2.84 billion cubic metres (2012)\n\nInstalled capacity of hydro power is 2,835 MW and wind power is 20 MW (in the process of being expanded to produce a total of 320 MW). Serbia also makes use of geothermal and solar energy, currently 27% of Serbia's electricity comes from hydro while 4% comes from other renewables.\n\n"}
{"id": "13876896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13876896", "title": "FIDE world rankings", "text": "FIDE world rankings\n\nThe \"Fédération Internationale des Échecs\" (FIDE) governs international chess competition. Each month, FIDE publishes the lists \"Top 100 Players\", \"Top 100 Women\", \"Top 100 Juniors\" and \"Top 100 Girls\", as well as rankings of countries according to the average rating of their top 10 players and top 10 female players. The Elo rating system is used.\n\nThe top 20 players on 1 November 2018 were ranked as follows:\n<section begin=topplayers />\n<section end=topplayers />\n\nThe top 20 females were ranked on 1 November 2018 as follows:\n<section begin=topwomen />\n<section end=topwomen />\n\nJuniors are considered to be players who remain under the age of 21 years for the duration of the current calendar year.\n\nThe top 20 positions were ranked on 1 November 2018 as follows:\n\nGirls are considered to be female players who will remain under the age of 21 years for the duration of the current calendar year.\n\nThe top 20 positions were ranked on 1 November 2018 as follows:\nFIDE publishes two lists ranking countries. The first ranks them according to the average rating of their top 10 players, while the second ranks them according to the average rating of their top 10 female players. The top 20 positions in the former list were ranked on 1 October 2018 as follows:\n\nThe top 20 countries by average rating of the top 10 female players were ranked on 1 October 2018 as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "56849643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56849643", "title": "Heather Graven", "text": "Heather Graven\n\nHeather Dawn Graven is a lecturer in Atmospheric Physics at Imperial College London. She creates mathematical models to predict how climate change will impact the carbon cycle.\n\nGraven earned a Bachelors in chemical engineering from California Institute of Technology in 2001. She won the Dean's Cup for contributions to student life. She earned a PhD from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in 2008. Her PhD thesis, Advancing the use of radiocarbon in studies of global and regional carbon cycling with high precision measurements of C in CO from the Scripps CO2 Program, was assessed by Ralph Keeling.\n\nGraven studies greenhouse gas emissions. In 2008 she joined ETH Zurich as a postdoctoral researcher. She returned to the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in 2011, researching variations in the amplitude of CO over the course of seasons. Since 2013, she has led the Carbon Cycle research group at Imperial College London.\n\nGraven's research focuses on measuring atmospheric CO and CH. The emission of greenhouse gases from fossil fuels can compromise the effectiveness of radiocarbon dating. She is also interested in the global uptake and cycling of carbon by plants, soil and the ocean. Her team use numerical models to predict the impact of climate change on the global carbon cycle. She is the project lead on several NASA funded projects, quantifying fossil and biospheric CO2 fluxes in California.\n\nShe took part in the American Association for the Advancement of Science 2017 Annual Meeting, discussing \"Global Climate Science Imperatives\". Graven contributes regularly to the discussion of climate change in the media.\n"}
{"id": "25071734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25071734", "title": "Holy water in Eastern Christianity", "text": "Holy water in Eastern Christianity\n\nAmong Eastern Orthodox and Eastern-Rite Catholic Christians, holy water is used frequently in rites of blessing and exorcism, and the water for baptism is always sanctified with a special blessing.\n\nThroughout the centuries, there have been many springs of water that have been believed by members of the Orthodox Church to be miraculous. Some still flow to this day, such as the one at Pochaev Lavra in Ukraine, and the Life-Giving Spring of the Theotokos in Constantinople (commemorated annually with the blessing of holy water on Bright Friday).\n\nAlthough Eastern Orthodox do not normally bless themselves with holy water upon entering a church like Catholics do, a quantity of holy water is typically kept in a font placed in the narthex (entrance) of the church, where it is available for anyone who would like to take some of it home with them. It is customary for Orthodox to drink holy water, to use it in their cooking and to sprinkle their houses with it.\n\nOften, when objects are blessed in the church (such as the palms on Palm Sunday, Icons or sacred vessels) the blessing is completed by a triple sprinkling with holy water using the words, \"This (\"name of item\") is blessed by the sprinkling of this holy water, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.\"\n\nHoly water is sometimes sprinkled on items or people when they are blessed outside the church building, as part of the prayers of blessing. For instance, in Alaska, the fishing boats are sprinkled with holy water at the start of the fishing season as the priest prays for the crews' safety and success. Some Catholics also have a priest bless their cars or homes with holy water as a way of invoking God's blessing and protection.\n\nOrthodox Christians most often bless themselves with holy water by drinking it. It is traditional to keep a quantity of it at home, and many Orthodox Christians will drink a small amount daily with their morning prayers. It may also be used for informal blessings when no clergy are present. For example, parents might bless their children with holy water before they leave the house for school or play. It is not unusual for pious Orthodox Christians to put a little holy water in their food as they cook their meals. It is also often taken with prayer in times of distress or temptation.\n\nThere are two rites for blessing holy water: the Great Blessing of Waters which is held on the Feast of Theophany, and the Lesser Blessing of Waters which is conducted according to need during the rest of the year. Both forms are based upon the Rite of Baptism. Certain feast days call for the blessing of Holy Water as part of their liturgical observance.\n\nThe use of holy water is based on the Baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist in the River Jordan, and the Orthodox interpretation of this event. In their view, John's baptism was a baptism of repentance, and the people came to have their sins washed away by the water. Since Jesus had no sin, but was God incarnate, his baptism had the effect not of washing away Jesus' sins, but of blessing the water, making it holy—and with it all of creation, so that it may be used fully for its original created purpose to be an instrument of life.\n\nJesus' baptism is commemorated in the Eastern Orthodox churches at the Feast of Theophany (literally \"manifestation of God\") on January 6 (for those Orthodox Christians who use the Julian Calendar, January 6 falls on the Gregorian Calendar date of January 19). At the Vespers of this feast, a font of holy water is typically blessed in the church, to provide holy water for the parish's use in the coming year. The next morning, after the Divine Liturgy a procession goes from the church to a nearby river, lake or other body of water, to bless that water as well. This represents the redemption of all creation as part of humanity's salvation.\n\nIn the following weeks, the priest typically visits the homes of the members of the parish and leads prayers of blessing for their families, homes (and even pets), sprinkling them with holy water. Again, this practice is meant to visibly represent God's sanctifying work in all parts of the people's lives.\n\nOn the Great Feast of Theophany, holy water is blessed twice: at the conclusion of the Divine Liturgy on the eve of the feast, and on morning of the feast itself. After processing to the place where the vessel of water is prepared to the singing of appropriate troparia (hymns) of the Theophany there are a group of Scripture readings (, , , and ), culminating in the baptism account from the Gospel of Saint Mark () followed by the Great Litany. This is sung just as at the beginning of the Divine Liturgy, but with the following additional petitions which make clear what is being asked of God and what the use, purpose, and blessing of the water is believed to entail.\nThen, following a lengthy set of didactic prayers that expound on the nature of the feast and summarize salvation history, praising God's creation of and mastery over the elements, the priest makes the Sign of the Cross over the water with his hand and prays specifically for the blessing to be invoked upon it. At the climax of the service, he immerses the hand cross into the water three times in imitation of Christ's baptism to the singing of the festal troparion:\n\nIn Greek: \n\nThe priest then blesses the entire church and congregation with the newly consecrated water. All come forward to be sprinkled over the head with the Theophany Water as the kiss the hand cross, and to drink some of it.\n\nThe priest will then set out to bless the homes of all of the faithful with Theophany Water. In large parishes, this process will take some time. However, the priest must bless all of the houses of the faithful before the beginning of Great Lent. In monasteries the Hegumen (Superior) will bless the cells of all of the monks.\n\nOrthodox Christianity teaches that the Great Blessing of Waters actually changes the nature of the water, and that water so blessed is no longer corruptible, but remains fresh for many years. \n\nThe Great Blessing of Waters is normally only blessed at this one time of the year; however, at the Consecration of a church, a Great Blessing of Waters will often precede the service.\n\nThe Lesser Blessing is called \"lesser\" not because it is shorter (in fact, it isn't), but because it does not have the same solemnity as the Great Blessing, and does not necessarily change the nature of the water.\n\nWhile much is the same, the rite begins with Psalm 142 (LXX) and the hymns to the Theophany of the Great Blessing are replaced in the Lesser Blessing with hymns to the Theotokos. The scriptural readings are different (, ), and the special peitions at the Great Litany are different:\n\nThen the priest says a prayer very similar to the one used at Theophany, but when he immerses the hand cross into the water three times, instead of singing the troparion of Theophany, he sings the troparion of the Cross:\nSave, O Lord, Thy people and bless Thine inheritance, granting unto the faithful victory over enemies. And by the power of Thy Cross, do Thou preserve Thy commonwealth.The Lesser Blessing of Waters may be performed according to need. It is specifically called for on August 1 (the feast of the Procession of the Cross); on Bright Friday (Friday in Easter Week) which is the feast of the Theotokos of the \"Life-giving Spring\"; and on the Feast of Mid-Pentecost, when all of the fields are blessed. There is also a tradition of blessing Holy Water on the first day of each month.\n\nThough there is no special blessing said over it, the water used for the Washing of Feet on Maundy Thursday could be considered a form of holy water, in that the Bishop or Hegumen will bless the faithful with it at the end of the ceremony. Among the Coptics, this water \"is\" blessed with the cross before the Washing of Feet. The Coptics also sprinkle the faithful with holy water on Palm Sunday, and at the end of every Divine Liturgy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10696700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10696700", "title": "Infralateral arc", "text": "Infralateral arc\n\nAn infralateral arc (or lower lateral tangent arc) is a rare halo, an optical phenomenon appearing similar to a rainbow under a white parhelic circle. Together with the supralateral arc they are always located outside the seldom observable 46° halo, but in contrast to supralateral arcs, infralateral arcs are always located below the parhelic circle.\n\nThe shape of an infralateral arc varies with the elevation of the sun. Between sunrise and before the sun reaches about 50° over the horizon, two infralateral arcs are located on either side (e.g. ) of the 46° halo, their convex apexes lying tangent to the 46° halo. As the sun reaches above 68° the two arcs unite to a single concave arc tangent to the 46° halo vertically under the sun. \n\nInfralateral arcs form when sun light enters horizontally oriented, rod-shaped hexagonal ice crystals through a hexagonal base and exits through one of the prism sides. Infralateral arcs occur about once a year. They are often observed together with circumscribed halos and upper tangent arcs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "371786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371786", "title": "Iridescence", "text": "Iridescence\n\nIridescence (also known as goniochromism) is the phenomenon of certain surfaces that appear to gradually change colour as the angle of view or the angle of illumination changes. Examples of iridescence include soap bubbles, butterfly wings and seashells, as well as certain minerals. It is often created by structural coloration (microstructures that interfere with light).\n\nPearlescence is a related effect where some or all of the reflected light is white, where iridescent effects produce only other colours. The term pearlescent is used to describe certain paint finishes, usually in the automotive industry, which actually produce iridescent effects.\n\nThe word \"iridescence\" is derived in part from the Greek word ἶρις \"îris\" (gen. ἴριδος \"íridos\"), meaning \"rainbow\", and is combined with the Latin suffix \"-escent\", meaning \"having a tendency toward\". Iris in turn derives from the goddess Iris of Greek mythology, who is the personification of the rainbow and acted as a messenger of the gods. \"Goniochromism\" is derived from the Greek words \"gonia\", meaning \"angle\", and \"chroma\", meaning \"colour\".\n\nIridescence is an optical phenomenon of surfaces in which hue changes with the angle of observation and the angle of illumination. It is often caused by multiple reflections from two or more semi-transparent surfaces in which phase shift and interference of the reflections modulates the incidental light (by amplifying or attenuating some frequencies more than others). The thickness of the layers of the material determines the interference pattern. Iridescence can for example be due to thin-film interference, the functional analogue of selective wavelength attenuation as seen with the Fabry–Pérot interferometer, and can be seen in oil films on water and soap bubbles. Iridescence is also found in plants, animals and many other items. The range of colours of natural iridescent objects can be narrow, for example shifting between two or three colours as the viewing angle changes, or a wide range of colours can be observed.\n\nIridescence can also be created by diffraction. This is found in items like CDs, DVDs, some types of prisms, or cloud iridescence. In the case of diffraction, the entire rainbow of colours will typically be observed as the viewing angle changes. In biology, this type of iridescence results from the formation of diffraction gratings on the surface, such as the long rows of cells in striated muscle, or the specialized abdominal scales of peacock spider \"Maratus robinsoni\" and \"M. chrysomelas\". Some types of flower petals can also generate a diffraction grating, but the iridescence is not visible to humans and flower-visiting insects as the diffraction signal is masked by the coloration due to plant pigments.\n\nIn biological (and biomimetic) uses, colours produced other than with pigments or dyes are called structural coloration. Microstructures, often multilayered, are used to produce bright but sometimes non-iridescent colours: quite elaborate arrangements are needed to avoid reflecting different colours in different directions. Structural coloration has been understood in general terms since Robert Hooke's 1665 book \"Micrographia\", where Hooke correctly noted that since the iridescence of a peacock's feather was lost when it was plunged into water, but reappeared when it was returned to the air, pigments could not be responsible. It was later found that iridescence in the peacock is due to a complex photonic crystal.\n\nPearlescence is an effect related to iridescence and has a similar cause. Structures within a surface cause light to be reflected back, but in the case of pearlescence some or all of the light is white. Artificial pigments and paints showing an iridescent effect are often described as pearlescent, for example when used for car paints.\n\nThe feathers of birds such as kingfishers, Birds-of-paradise, hummingbirds, parrots, starlings, grackles, ducks, and peacocks are iridescent. The lateral line on the Neon tetra is also iridescent. A single iridescent species of gecko, \"Cnemaspis kolhapurensis\", was identified in India in 2009. The tapetum lucidum, present in the eyes of many vertebrates, is also iridescent.\n\nMany groups of plants have developed iridescence as an adaptation to use more light in dark environments such as the lower levels of tropical forests. The leaves of Southeast Asia's \"Begonia pavonina\", or peacock begonia, appear iridescent azure to human observers due to each leaf's thinly layered photosynthetic structures called iridoplasts that absorb and bend light much like a film of oil over water. Iridescences based on multiple layers of cells are also found in the lycophyte \"Selaginella\" and several species of ferns.\n\nNanocellulose is sometimes iridescent, as are thin films of gasoline and some other hydrocarbons and alcohols when floating on water.\n\nTo create jewelry with crystal glass that lets light refract in a rainbow spectrum, Swarovski coats some of its products with special metallic chemical coatings and for example, Aurora Borealis, or \"AB\", gives the surface a rainbow appearance. Rainbow anodizing is also possible.\n\nIridescent products in the cosmetic and clothing industries are often referred as being holographic.\n\n"}
{"id": "7871720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7871720", "title": "Journal of California and Great Basin Anthropology", "text": "Journal of California and Great Basin Anthropology\n\nThe Journal of California and Great Basin Anthropology is a leading regional source of scholarly information on the ethnography, archaeology, linguistics, and Native American history of the Western United States created by Harry Lawton.\n\nIt is published by Malki Museum Press, based on the Morongo Indian Reservation in Banning, California.\n\nBegun in 1974 as the \"Journal of California Anthropology\", it expanded its scope and changed to its present name in 1979. It has usually published two issues per year.\n\nThe journal's editors have included:\n\n\nOlder issues of the journal are freely available through the University of California's e-Scholarship repository:\n\n"}
{"id": "54896060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54896060", "title": "Karst lake", "text": "Karst lake\n\nKarst lakes are formed as the result of a collapse of subterranean caves, especially in water-soluble rocks such as limestone, gypsum and dolomite. This process is known as karstification. They can cover areas of several 100 square kilometres. Their shallow lakebed is usually an insoluble layer of sediment so that water is impounded, leading to the formation of lakes. Many karst lakes only exist periodically, but return regularly after heavy rainfall.\n\nKarst lakes are found in the area around the Harz Mountains of Germany (e. g. the Juessee and the Bauerngraben in the South Harz Karst Landscape Biosphere Reserve, an episodic karst lake on the Karst Trail), in South Germany (e.g. the Eichener See), in France in the region of Quercy, in Estonia the Tudre, in Slovenia (e. g. the Cerkniško jezero), in Ireland the so-called turloughs (there is also a turlough in South Wales: \"Pant y Llyn\" or \"Pantyllyn\" near Builth Wells) and some in the United States. Even the \"Cenotes\" in the north of the Mexican peninsula of Yucatán, which were known by the Mayans, may be classed as karst lakes.\n\n"}
{"id": "21941655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21941655", "title": "Kronotsky Nature Reserve", "text": "Kronotsky Nature Reserve\n\nKronotsky (Кроноцкий) Nature Reserve (also: \"Kronotsky Biosphere Zapovednik\") is a nature area reserved for the study of natural sciences in the remote Russian Far East, on the coast of the Kamchatka Peninsula. It was created in 1934 and its current boundary contains an area of . The largest lake in the reserve is Lake Kronotskoye, which covers an area of . It also has Russia's only geyser basin, plus several mountain ranges with numerous volcanoes, both active and extinct. Due to its often harsh climate and its mix of volcanoes and geysers, it is frequently described as the Land of Fire and Ice.\n\nKronotsky is mainly accessible only to scientists, plus approximately 3,000 tourists annually who pay a fee equivalent to US$700 to travel by helicopter for a single day's visit. It is part of Volcanoes of Kamchatka, a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nOver 750 plant species grow in the reserve, which has volcanoes rising up to a height of over 3,510 m (11,500 feet).\n\nThe nature reserve boasts over 800 brown bears, some of the largest in the world that can grow to over 540 kg (1,200 pounds). The 800-plus population make it Eurasia's largest protected brown bear population. Bears in the Kronotsky reserve often encounter each other at salmon streams in the park where they can socialize freely with each other.\n\nThe Valley of Geysers () is the only geyser field in Eurasia (apart from the Mutnovsky geyser field) and the second largest concentration of geysers in the world. This 6 km long basin with approximately ninety geysers and many hot springs is situated on the Kamchatka Peninsula in the Russian Far East, predominantly on the left bank of the ever-deepening Geysernaya River.\n\nWithin the valley a volcanic cone collapsed approximately 40,000 years ago forming the Uzon Caldera, which continues to steam in places where magma can heat groundwater to a near-boil. The area is less than eight miles wide and holds at least 500 geothermal hot springs, mud pots and other similar features.\n\nAmong the geysers is the Velikan (giant) Geyser, which erupts with tons of water that shoot more than 25 metres into the air during a minute-long eruption approximately every six hours or so. At least 20 such geysers erupt on a stretch of the Geysernaya River Basin in the Valley of Geysers, along with dozens of smaller gushing vents and hundreds of hot springs. The largest of these geysers erupts with 60 tons of water once or twice a year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2636160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2636160", "title": "Kīpuka", "text": "Kīpuka\n\nA kīpuka is an area of land surrounded by one or more younger lava flows. A kīpuka forms when lava flows on either side of a hill, ridge, or older lava dome as it moves downslope or spreads from its source. Older and more weathered than their surroundings, kīpukas often appear to be like islands within a sea of lava flows. They are often covered with soil and late ecological successional vegetation that provide visual contrast as well as habitat for animals in an otherwise inhospitable environment.\n\n\"Kīpuka\", along with \"aā\" and \"pāhoehoe\", are Hawaiian words related to volcanology that have entered the lexicon of geology. Some have used the word informally as applying to any place where biological life endures the encroachment of civilization, an \"island of life.\"\n\n\"Kīpuka\" provides useful study sites for ecological research because they facilitate replication; multiple \"kīpuka\" in a system (isolated by the same lava flow) will tend to have uniform substrate age and successional characteristics, but are often isolated-enough from their neighbors to provide meaningful, comparable differences in size, invasion, etc. They are also receptive to experimental treatments. \"Kīpuka\" along Saddle Road on Hawaii have served as the natural laboratory for a variety of studies, examining ecological principles like island biogeography, food web control, and biotic resistance to invasiveness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1557134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1557134", "title": "List of Anthurium species", "text": "List of Anthurium species\n\nThis is a list of \"Anthurium\" species:\n\nAnthurium is a large genus of flowering plants from the arum family (Araceae)\n\n"}
{"id": "8045033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8045033", "title": "List of Australian Proteaceae", "text": "List of Australian Proteaceae\n\nThis is a list of Proteaceae that occur in Australia. It includes all Proteaceae taxa listed as accepted names in the Australian Plant Name Index.\n\n"}
{"id": "22627188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22627188", "title": "List of Canadian natural gas companies", "text": "List of Canadian natural gas companies\n\nThis is a list of Canadian natural gas companies:\n"}
{"id": "6301899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6301899", "title": "List of Stylidium species", "text": "List of Stylidium species\n\nDiscovery and description of new \"Stylidium\" species has been occurring since the late 18th century, the first of which was discovered in Botany Bay in 1770 and described by Joseph Banks and Daniel Solander. In the early 19th century, the French botanist Charles François Antoine Morren described triggerplant anatomy, also providing illustrations with the descriptions. As of 2002, only 221 \"Stylidium\" species were known. There are now over 300 species, many of which are awaiting formal description.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9115519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9115519", "title": "List of Texas hurricanes (pre-1900)", "text": "List of Texas hurricanes (pre-1900)\n\nThe list of Texas hurricanes prior to 1900 extends back to 1527 and encompasses all known North Atlantic hurricanes to have affected Texas before 1900.\n\nThe first storm of the 1851 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall near Corpus Christi. \n\nThe first storm of the 1854 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall in Texas, while the fourth storm of the season, another hurricane, moved inland near Galveston, Texas, causing 2 deaths from nearly 6 inches of rainfall, as well as $20,000 in damage. \n\nThe fourth storm of the 1857 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall near Brownsville. \n\nThe final storm of the 1863 hurricane season paralleled the Texas coastline.\n\nThe second storm of 1865 hurricane season made landfall in Texas near Brownsville the day it formed. \n\nThe fourth storm of 1865 hurricane season made landfall in the Texas/Louisiana border.\n\nThe first hurricane of the 1866 hurricane season made landfall in Texas on July 15. \n\nThe seventh storm of 1867 hurricane season paralleled the Texas coastline. \n\nThe second storm of 1869 hurricane season was a Category 2 hurricane moved across the Gulf of Mexico, hitting the lower Texas coast on August 17. Most of the damage that occurred came from storm surge. \n\nTwo June tropical storms in 1871 began the hurricane season by hitting Texas on June 2 and June 9. The two caused light damage and one death. \n\nFrom September 30-October 2, 1871, The third hurricane affect Texas that season moved just offshore the length of the coast. A ship named the S.S.. Hall sunk during the storm; all hands were lost. On Mustang Island, it was the severest gale in 16 years. Tides at Indianola were the highest since 1844; most of the town flooded. The jail at Lavaca was washed away. Many people died in the tempest.\n\nThe first and fourth storms of the 1874 season made landfall in Texas. On September 5, 1874 the barometer dropped to 29:51 at 6:30 pm in Corpus Christi. The city suffered flooding and heavy wind damage. Numerous ships in the harbor were damaged. At least one death was reported from drowning.\n\nThe third storm of 1875 hit Indianola, Texas at that intensity on the September 16. It turned northeastward, dissipating over Mississippi. The storm brought strong storm surge to the Texas coast, causing heavy damage and a total of 800 deaths. The storm was the first of two hurricanes to devastate Indianola, the other being the Indianola Hurricane of 1886.\n\nFrom September 15–17, 1877: Hurricane affected the entire Texas coast. In Galveston, winds were noted out of the east during the night of September 15. By September 17, tides had increased to 5.2 feet above mean low water. Winds increased to 60 mph at that time. High tides, though, were the main villain. A \"fresh gale\" at Mustang Island destroyed their wharf.\n\nThe third storm of 1879 hit the northeast Texas coast on August 23. Damage was heavy, but there were no reported deaths.\n\nThe second storm of the 1880 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall near Brownsville, Texas on the 13th , and dissipated rapidly over land on the 14th. It caused 30 deaths near the Yucatán Peninsula, and 5 deaths in Texas. \n\nThe second storm of the 1881 Atlantic hurricane season was a tropical storm hit Corpus Christi, Texas in the middle of August, but caused no reported deaths. Signals were blown down at the harbor, and one boat was lost.\n\nThe third storm of the 1882 Atlantic hurricane season was a Category 2 hurricane was first observed in the Gulf of Mexico on September 14. Its prior track is unknown, but it moved to the west-northwest, and hit near the Texas/Louisiana border on September 15. The storm brought a 3-foot storm surge, caused moderate damage, and killed one person.\n\nThe first hurricane of the 1886 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall near the Texas/Louisiana border. \n\nAugust 20, 1886: the Indianola Hurricane made landfall as a Category 4 hurricane. It destroyed the town of Indianola, then the largest and most economically important port city in the state of Texas. With an estimated central pressure of 925 mb, this hurricane is on record as the most intense ever to strike the state of Texas. The hurricane also caused at least 25 deaths.\nThe 8th storm of the 1886 Atlantic hurricane season took a west track through Cuba and the Gulf of Mexico. It turned northward in the western gulf, and hit near Brownsville, Texas as a 100 mph hurricane on September 23.\n\nThe 10th storm of the 1886 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall near the border between Louisiana and Texas. It caused 175-200 deaths due to the heavy rainfall and storm surge, with $250,000 in damage occurring.\n\nThe ninth storm of the 1887 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall near Brownsville.\n\nThe first two storms of the 1888 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall in the same area of Texas.\n\nThe first storm of 1891 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall near Galveston, Texas.\n\nThe second storm of the 1895 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall in the southernmost part of Texas.\n\nThe second storm of 1897 Atlantic hurricane season had effects on parts of Texas.\n\nThe sixth storm of 1898 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall near the Texas/Louisiana border.\n\nThe first storm of 1899 Atlantic hurricane season made landfall in Texas.\nThe following is a list of hurricanes with known deaths in the state. Several other hurricanes killed an unknown number of people in Texas, and multiple others left several missing.\n\n"}
{"id": "49412029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49412029", "title": "List of earthquakes in Saudi Arabia", "text": "List of earthquakes in Saudi Arabia\n\nEarthquakes in Saudi Arabia are infrequent and usually occur in the western portion of the country near the Red Sea or the Gulf of Aqaba.\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "22906117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22906117", "title": "List of mountain passes of KwaZulu-Natal", "text": "List of mountain passes of KwaZulu-Natal\n\nThis is a list of publicly accessible passes in the KwaZulu Natal, South Africa.\nFor lists of other provinces, see Mountain Passes of South Africa\n"}
{"id": "8591372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591372", "title": "List of stars in Cancer", "text": "List of stars in Cancer\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Cancer. The 121 stars are sorted by decreasing brightness, beginning with Beta Cancri, the brightest star in Cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50045486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50045486", "title": "List of the major 3000-meter summits of the United States", "text": "List of the major 3000-meter summits of the United States\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 302 mountain peaks of the United States with at least of topographic elevation and at least of topographic prominence.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nIn the United States, only Denali exceeds elevation. Four major summits exceed , nine exceed , 104 major summits exceed, 220 exceed , and the following 302 major summits exceed elevation.\n\nOf the 302 major 3000-meter summits of the United States, 117 are located in Colorado, 61 in Alaska, 34 in California, 17 in Wyoming, 15 in Montana, 14 in Utah, 13 in Nevada, 11 in New Mexico, six in Idaho, four in Washington, four in Oregon, three in Hawaii, and three in Arizona. Five of these summits are located on the international border between Alaska and Yukon, and three are located on the international border between Alaska and British Columbia. The ten highest major summits of the United States are all located in Alaska. Additional references for the 200 highest of these summits can be found on the List of the highest major summits of the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1374427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374427", "title": "Megathermal", "text": "Megathermal\n\nIn climatology, the term megathermal (or less commonly, macrothermal) is sometimes used as a synonym for \"tropical.\"\n\nIn order for a particular place to qualify as having a megathermal climate, every single month out of the year must have an average temperature of 18°C or above.\n\nMegathermal climates are sometimes split into two temperature-based subsets — equatorial and tropical (the latter used here in the sense of \"outer tropical\") — with \"equatorial\" denoting little or no variation in temperature throughout the year and \"tropical\" denoting significant seasonal variation, even though no month has an average temperature of below 18°C. In addition, what temperature fluctuations do exist in an equatorial climate will typically bear no relationship to the astronomical seasons for the applicable side of the equator, while in the (outer) tropical subtype the temperature will move in concert with the seasons, the time of higher sun and longer days being warmest and the time of lower sun and shorter days coolest.\n\nThese climates can also be subdivided on the basis of rainfall, as examples of humid, semiarid and arid places can all be found within the megathermal category (although the region of arid megathermal climate is small compared with the extent of deserts existing in other climate zones, particularly the neighboring subtropical zone).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10091154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10091154", "title": "Memetracker", "text": "Memetracker\n\nA memetracker is a tool for studying the migration of memes across a group of people. The term is typically used to describe websites that either:\n\nSites in the latter group are often referred to as social media sites.\n\nThe original publicly viewable memetracker was Blogdex, which is now defunct. However, many sites inspired by it exist today, such as:\n\n\nMemetrackers are frequently characterized by purely automatic operation in determining the most popular links, though many modern sites incorporate some level of human editorial control in an effort to combat spam links and other efforts to exploit the services commercially.\n\nThe introduction of memetrackers was instrumental in the rise of blogs as a serious competitor to traditional printed news media. Through automating (or reducing to one click) the effort to spread ideas through word of mouth, it became possible for casual blog readers to focus on the best of the blogosphere rather than having to scan numerous individual blogs. The steady and frequent appearance of citations of or votes for the work of certain popular bloggers also helped create the so-called \"A List\" of bloggers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22619859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22619859", "title": "Milton N. Hopkins", "text": "Milton N. Hopkins\n\nMilton Newton Hopkins Jr (1926 – 5 March 2007) was a farmer in southern Georgia, in the south-eastern United States, as well as a conservationist, naturalist, and author, who had a long association with the Georgia Ornithological Society (GOS).\n\nHopkins grew up in Fitzgerald, Georgia. He developed an interest in birds from about eight years of age and spent much time exploring the countryside around his home town. He became a member of GOS in 1939, when he was 15, and contributed his first field note to its journal \"The Oriole\" in 1942.\n\nHopkins served in the Navy in World War II, in the Pacific theatre. He was on a destroyer in Tokyo Bay when Japan surrendered. After the war he made use of the G.I. Bill to study zoology at the University of Georgia, eventually achieving a master's degree in 1951.\n\nHopkins was known primarily as an ornithologist, and was editor of \"The Oriole\" 1960-1965, and received the Society's Earl R. Greene Award for outstanding contributions to Georgia ornithology. He published numerous observations of birdlife in South Georgia over the years, and was good friends with many preeminent southern naturalists, notably Herbert L. Stoddard, author of \"The Bobwhite Quail: Its Habits, Preservation and Increase\", the standard reference on bobwhite quail. In 1975 GOS published Hopkins' book, \"The Birdlife of Ben Hill County, Georgia and Adjacent Areas\".\n\nHopkins traveled widely, but was firmly rooted in his native southern Georgia. The bulk of his adult life was spent at Osierfield, in Irwin County, where he and his family lived in a restored train depot. An ardent conservationist who balanced agribusiness with a concern for the environment, Hopkins was named national Outstanding Tree Farmer of the Year in 1981 by the American Tree Farm System.\n\nIn his later years, Hopkins remained very active and befriended Janisse Ray, author of the modern classic \"Ecology of a Cracker Childhood\". Ray was instrumental in encouraging him to publish a collection of his stories of farm life in South Georgia, and in 2001 his book \"In One Place: The Natural History of a Georgia Farmer\" was issued to great reviews. In 2001 he also published \"Around Fitzgerald, Georgia, In Vintage Picture Postcards\", part of Arcadia's Postcard History Series. A lifelong student of local history and collector of related ephemera, most of the items highlighted were from his vast personal collection.\n\nHopkins died at the age of 80 after suffering an aneurysm.\n\n"}
{"id": "377997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377997", "title": "Protected areas of Croatia", "text": "Protected areas of Croatia\n\nThe main protected areas of Croatia are national parks, nature parks and strict reserves. There are 444 protected areas of Croatia, encompassing 9% of the country. Those include 8 national parks in Croatia, 2 strict reserves and 11 nature parks. The most famous protected area and the oldest national park in Croatia is the Plitvice Lakes National Park, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Velebit Nature Park is a part of the UNESCO Man and the Biosphere Programme. The strict and special reserves, as well as the national and nature parks, are managed and protected by the central government, while other protected areas are managed by counties. In 2005, the National Ecological Network was set up, as the first step in preparation of the EU accession and joining of the Natura 2000 network.\n\nThe total area of all national parks in the country is , of which is sea surface.\n\nEach of the national parks is maintained by a separate institution, overseen and funded by the government ministry of nature conservation and spatial development. The State Institute for Nature Protection provides centralized oversight and expertise.\n\nAll eight national parks are located in karst area. \n\n\nThere are 80 special reserves in Croatia:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16385915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16385915", "title": "RMA tube designation", "text": "RMA tube designation\n\nIn the years 1942-1944, the Radio Manufacturers Association used a descriptive nomenclature system for industrial, transmitting, and special-purpose vacuum tubes. The numbering scheme was distinct from both the numbering schemes used for standard receiving tubes, and the existing transmitting tube numbering systems used previously, such as the \"800 series\" numbers originated by RCA and adopted by many others.\n\nThe system assigned numbers with the base form \"1A21\", and this numbering scheme is occasionally referred to by tube collectors and historians as the \"1A21 system\".\n\nThe first digit of the type number was 1-9, providing a rough indication of the filament/heater power rating (and therefore the overall power handling capabilities) of the tube. The assigned numbers were as follows:\n\n\nThe second character was a letter broadly identifying the class of tube:\n\n\nThe last 2 digits were serially assigned, beginning with 21 to avoid possible confusion with receiving tubes or CRT phosphor designations.\nMultiple section tubes (like the 3E29 or 8D21) are assigned a letter corresponding to ONE set of electrodes.\n\nLike all tube numbering systems, there are many inconsistencies between theory and practice. For example, there is no assigned letter code for cathode-ray tubes. Some unusual types received rather mundane sounding designations, based solely on electrode count, because there was no better place to put them. For example, the 2F21 is not an actual hexode, but a pattern generating monoscope tube. Some very exotic types received generic designators, even when there was a more appropriate designator available. For example, the 2H21 \"phasitron\" phase modulator tube used in early FM broadcast transmitters was assigned an \"H\" (octode) designator, when it would have been a perfect candidate for the otherwise unused \"T\" category for deflection controlled tubes.\n\nThe first-digit filament/heater power rating confusingly gathers valves of widely-differing ratings. The 2G21 is a subminiature Triode-Hexode, with a maximum anode (plate) current of some 0.2 milliamps and a maximum voltage of 45 volts. The 2J42 Magnetron, with a power output of some 7 kilowatts, is rated for anode current of 4.5 amps (pulse peak) at anode voltage of 5,500 volts.\n\nMany of the \"1A21\" series are well known to collectors and restorers of WW2 vintage radio equipment. A short list of well-known or historic types numbered under this system:\n\n\nThis numbering system was abandoned in 1944 in favor of a non-descriptive numbering system of 4 digit numbers beginning with 5500. This new system persisted until the final days of tubes, with type numbers registered up into the 9000 series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2221470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221470", "title": "Richard Millington", "text": "Richard Millington\n\nRichard Millington is a British birder and bird artist. He lives in Cley-next-the-Sea, Norfolk with his wife Hazel.\n\nHe is assistant editor of \"Birding World\" magazine. His contributions to that journal include many articles on bird identification. He also runs Birdline, a telephone information service containing news of rare birds.\n\nRichard Millington is also a twitcher. He is one of a small number of birders who have seen over 500 species in Britain. He also found the UK's first Rock Sparrow at Cley on 14 June 1981, still the only record in the UK. In 1980 he undertook a yearlist, at a time when this form of twitching was still in its infancy, seeing 300 species of bird in the wild in Britain throughout the course of the year, and his illustrated book \"A Twitcher's Diary\" catalogues his birding travels during that year.\n"}
{"id": "1014949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014949", "title": "Riviera", "text": "Riviera\n\nRiviera, , is an Italian word which means \"coastline\", ultimately derived from Latin \"ripa\", through Ligurian \"rivea\". It came to be applied as a proper name to the coast of Liguria, in the form \"riviera ligure\", then shortened to \"riviera\". The two areas currently known in English as \"The Riviera\" without additional qualification are:\n\nRiviera may be also applied to any coastline, especially one that is sunny, topographically diverse and popular with tourists. Such places called \"Riviera\" include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58575881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58575881", "title": "Robert Henry Doolan", "text": "Robert Henry Doolan\n\nRobert Henry Doolan was a navigator on a B-17 Flying Fortress during World War II before being captured by the Germans. \n\nDoolan was born and raised in the West End, Cincinnati, Ohio and graduated from St. Xavier High School in 1935. After Doolan returned from the war he married Dolores Doolan and completed a Bachelor's Degree in civil engineering. In March 2017, Doolan celebrated his 100th birthday.\n\nDoolan enlisted in the Army Air Corps in the summer of 1941, but washed out of pilot school and was instated at graduation as a second lieutenant navigator. Doolan was a member of the 326th Bomb Squadron, 92nd Bomb Group (H), in the 8th Air Force, achieving the rank of First Lieutenant at the end of his tour of duty. He took part in 12 combat missions from January to August 1943 when he was shoot down on his 13th mission.\n\nAfter the failure of the 13th mission Doolan and another airman spent 21 days attempting to escape the Netherlands, with aid by the Dutch resistance, before being captured and taken to a prison camp. Doolan recalled \"The next day we were going to go into Belgium, and we got word that our pilot made it to France and was captured, the two gunners had made it into Belgium and were captured. So there was a good chance our next safe house is compromised.\"\n\nHe spent two years in the Stalag Luft III prison camp which was made famous by the 1963 film \"The Great Escape.\" Doolan was evacuated from the camp with other POW's in January 1945 by the Germans to avoid the Soviet Red Army where they were marched and moved by train cars to a new camp at Moosburg, Germany. The Moosburg prison camp was liberated by General George Patton and Doolan returned to the United States in 1945.\n"}
{"id": "23291312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23291312", "title": "SABAP2", "text": "SABAP2\n\nSABAP2 is the acronym for the Southern African Bird Atlas Project 2, which is the follow-up to the Southern African Bird Atlas Project (for which the acronym was SABAP, and which is now referred to as SABAP1). The first atlas project took place from 1987–1991. The current project is a joint venture between the Animal Demography Unit at the University of Cape Town, BirdLife South Africa and the South African National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI). The project aims to map the distribution and relative abundance of birds in southern Africa, and the original atlas area included South Africa, Lesotho, and Swaziland, although since 2012 the project has expanded to include Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Mozambique. SABAP2 was launched on 1 July 2007, and it has been planned to run indefinitely. \n\nThe field work for this project is conducted by more than 1700 volunteers, known as citizen scientists – they collect the data in the field at their own cost and in their own time. As such they make a huge contribution to the conservation of birds and their habitat. In SABAP1, bird lists were collected for quarter degree grid cells, which are 15 minutes by 15 minutes, or approximately 27 km by 25 km in size. In SABAP2, the resolution is far higher: the unit of data collection is the pentad – five minutes of latitude by five minutes of longitude – i.e. squares with sides of roughly 9 km, one ninth the size of quarter degree grid cells. There are 17 000 pentads in the original atlas area of South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland, and a further 10 000 in Namibia.\n\nBy June 2015, the SABAP2 database contained more than 128 000 checklists, and a total of 7.4 million records of bird distribution in the project database. In June 2015, the number of SABAP2 records exceeded that of SABAP1 for the first time. More than 72% of the original SABAP2 atlas area (i.e. South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland) had at least one checklist by that time. This information is updated continuously on the project website; see External links below.\n\nA number of postgraduate research projects have been based partially or completely on SABAP data, either from SABAP1 only, SABAP2 only, or comparing the changes in bird distributions and reporting rates from SABAP1 to SABAP2. Many scientific research articles have also been published on these and other analyses. See External links for some examples of postgraduate dissertations and published articles that make use of SABAP data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1452030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1452030", "title": "Seabed gouging by ice", "text": "Seabed gouging by ice\n\nSeabed gouging by ice is a process that occurs when floating ice features (typically icebergs and sea ice ridges) drift into shallower areas and their keel comes into contact with the seabed. As they keep drifting, they produce long, narrow furrows most often called \"gouges\", or \"scours\". This phenomenon is common in offshore environments where ice is known to exist. Although it also occurs in rivers and lakes, it appears to be better documented from oceans and sea expanses.\n\nSeabed scours produced via this mechanism should not be confused with strudel scours. These result from spring run-off water flowing onto the surface of a given sea ice expanse, which eventually drains away through cracks, seal breathing holes, etc. The resulting turbulence is strong enough to carve a depression into the seabed. Seabed scouring by ice should also be distinguished from another scouring mechanism: the erosion of the sediments around a structure due to water currents, a well known issue in ocean engineering and river hydraulics – see bridge scour.\n\nIt appears Charles Darwin speculated in 1855 about the possibility that icebergs could gouge the seabed as they drifted across isobaths. Some discussion on the involvement of sea ice was brought up in the 1920s, but overall this phenomenon remained poorly studied by the scientific community up to the 1970s. At that time, ship-borne sidescan sonar surveys in the Canadian Beaufort Sea began to gather actual evidence of this mechanism. Seabed gouges were subsequently observed further north, in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, and in the Russian Arctic as well. Throughout that decade, seabed gouging by ice was investigated extensively.\n\nWhat sparked the sudden interest for this phenomenon was the discovery of oil near Alaska’s northern coastlines, and two related factors: 1) the prospect that oilfields could abound in these waters, and 2) a consideration that submarine pipelines would be involved in future production developments, as this appeared to be the most practical approach to bring this resource to the shore. Since then, means of protecting these structures against ice action became an important concern. An oil spill in this environment would be problematic in terms of detection and clean-up.\n\nScientists in fields of research other than offshore engineering have also addressed seabed gouging. For instance, biologists have linked regions of the seabed reshaped by seabed gouging by ice to the formation of black pools, seabed depressions filled with anoxic high-salinity water which are death traps for small marine organisms. However, much of it appears to have been documented from an offshore engineering perspective, for the purpose of oil exploration.\n\nSeabed gouging by ice is an eminently discreet phenomenon: little sign of it can be observed from above the water surface – the odd evidence includes sea floor sediments incorporated into the ice. Information of interest on these gouges includes: depth, width, length and orientation. Gouging frequency – the number of gouges produced at a given location per unit time – is another important parameter. This kind of information has been gathered by means of seabed mapping with ship-borne instrumentation, typically a fathometer: echo sounding devices such as a side-scan and a multi-beam sonar systems. Repetitive mapping involves repeating these surveys a number of times, at an interval ranging from a few to several years, as a means of estimating gouging frequency.\n\nSeabed gouges produced by drifting ice features can be many kilometers in length. In Northern Canada and Alaska, gouge depths may reach . Most, however, do not exceed 1 meter (3 feet). Anything deeper than 2 meters is referred to by the offshore engineering community as an \"extreme event\". Gouge widths range from a few meters to a few hundred meters. The maximum water depths at which gouges have been reported range from , northwest of Svalbard in the Arctic Ocean. These are thought to be remnant traces left by icebergs during the Pleistocene, thousands of years ago, when the sea level was lower than what it is today. In the Beaufort Sea, Northern Canada, a 50 km (30 mi) long gouge was shown to exist, with a maximum depth of and in water depths ranging from . The gouge is not always straight but varies in orientation. This event is thought to be about 2000 years old. Recent episodes of grounding, gouging and fragmentation of large Antarctic icebergs have been observed to produce powerful hydroacoustic and seismic signals that further illuminate the dynamics of the process.\n\nIn the offshore environment, the gouging features are made up of two kinds of ice: glacial ice and sea ice.\nPhysically and mechanically, glacial ice is akin to lake ice, river ice and icicles. The reason is that they all form from freshwater (non saline water). Ice sheets, ice caps and glaciers essentially consist of glacial ice. Since glacial ice spreads sideways and down-slope (as a result of gravity), in some areas this ice reaches the coastline. Where this happens, depending on topography, the ice may break up into pieces that fall in the sea, a mechanism called ice calving, and drift away. Alternatively, ice sheets may spread offshore into extensive floating ice platforms called ice shelves, which can ultimately also calve. The features produced by these calving processes are known as icebergs and may range in size from meter to kilometer scale. The very large ones, referred to as \"ice islands\", are typically tabular in shape. These may be responsible for extreme gouging events.\n\nSea ice is the outcome of freezing seawater. It is porous and mechanically weaker than glacial ice. Sea ice dynamics are highly complex. Driven by winds and currents, sea ice may ultimately develop into pressure ridges, a pile-up of ice fragments, or \"rubble\", making up long, linear features. These are a very common source of seabed gouges. Pressure ridges are often enclosed inside expanses of drifting pack ice, such that gouging activity from sea ice ridge keels is closely related with pack ice motion. Stamukhi are also pile-ups of broken sea ice but they are grounded and are therefore relatively stationary. They result from the interaction between fast ice and the drifting pack ice. Stamukhi can penetrate the seabed to a considerable depth, and this also poses a risk to subsea pipelines at shore approaches.\n\nBecause of the differences in the nature of glacial ice and pressure ridges, gouging events from these two types of ice are also different. In both cases, the ice-soil interface is expected to retain a certain equilibrium angle, called the \"attack angle\", during which the gouging process achieves a \"steady state\". Icebergs may adjust to this angle by rotation. Sea ice ridges may do so through the rearrangement of the rubble at the keel-seabed interface or through keel failure.\n\nSeabed reaction to the gouging process depends on the properties of both the ice and the seabed. Assuming the former is stronger than the latter, and the ice driving force is sufficient, a gouge will form in the seabed. Three zones within the seabed are distinguished on the basis of soil response. \"Zone 1\" is the gouge depth, where the soil has been displaced by the ice feature and remobilized into side berms and front mound ahead of the ice-seabed interface. \"Zone 2\" is where the soil undergoes some displacement. In \"Zone 3\", little or no displacement takes place, but stresses of an elastic nature are transmitted from the zone above.\n\nThe area north of the Arctic Circle may hold a significant amount of undiscovered oil and gas, up to 13% and 30%, respectively, according to the USGS. This resource probably lies in continental shelves at water depths below , which makes up about one third of that area. Also, more than 400 oil and gas fields had been identified up to 2007, most of them in Northern Russia and on the North Slope of Alaska.\n\nAccess poses a challenge. An offshore production scheme necessarily aims for safe and economical operation throughout the year and the full lifespan of the project. Offshore production developments often consist of installations on the seabed itself, away from sea surface hazards (wind, waves, ice). In shallower waters, the production platform may rest directly on the seabed. Either way, if these installations include a submarine pipeline to deliver this resource to the shoreline, a substantial portion of its length could be exposed to gouging events.\nAccording to recent reviews on the subject, adequate protection against gouging activity may be achieved through pipeline burial. Placing the pipeline in Zone 3 would be the safest option, but the costs for this option are deemed prohibitive. Instead, current design philosophy envisages pipe location within Zone 2, which is still below the gouge depth, but where the soil is expected to move as a result of a gouging event above it. This implies that the pipeline must undergo a certain amount of bending and consequent deformation, or strain, of the pipeline wall. For the currently operating North Star production site, “[t]he minimum pipeline depth of cover (original undisturbed seabed to top of pipe) to resist ice keel loads was calculated based on limit state design procedures for pipe bending”. For that particular site, “[p]redicted seabed soil displacements beneath the maximum ice keel gouge depth (3.5 ft) yielded a 7-ft minimum depth of cover for pipe bending strains up to 1.4%”.\n\nThis design philosophy must contend with at least three sources of uncertainty: \n\nOil and gas developments in Arctic waters must address environmental concerns through proper contingency plans. Parts of the Arctic are covered with ice most of the year. During the winter months, darkness prevails. If an oil spill occurs, it may go undetected for several months. Assuming this spill is located, clean-up procedures are likely to be impeded by ice cover. Furthermore, these are remote locations, such that logistical issues would come into play. Arctic ecosystems are sensitive – a timely response is required to mitigate the consequences of an oil spill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "860440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=860440", "title": "Subshrub", "text": "Subshrub\n\nA subshrub (Latin \"suffrutex\") or dwarf shrub is a short woody plant. Prostrate shrub is a related term. \"Subshrub\" is often used interchangeably with \"bush\".\n\nBecause the criteria are matters of degree rather than of kind, the definition of a subshrub is not sharply distinguishable from that of a shrub; examples of reasons for describing plants as subshrubs include ground-hugging stems or low growth habit. Subshrubs may be largely herbaceous, with overwintering perennial woody growth much lower-growing than deciduous summer growth. Some plants described as subshrubs are only weakly woody and some persist for only for a few years; others however, such as \"Oldenburgia paradoxa\" live indefinitely, rooted in rocky cracks.\n\nSmall, low shrubs such as lavender, periwinkle, and thyme, and many members of the family Ericaceae, such as cranberries and small species of \"Erica\", are often classed as subshrubs.\n\nA chamaephyte or dwarf-shrub is a plant that bears hibernating buds on persistent shoots near the ground – usually woody plants with perennating buds borne close to the ground, usually less than above soil surface. The significance of the closeness to the ground is that the buds remain within the soil surface layer and are thus somewhat protected from various adverse influences. Accordingly, the chamaephyte habit is especially common in stressful environments, for example: \n\nThe term chamaephyte is most formally used within the context of Raunkiær plant life-forms. Examples of chamaephytes are many of the species of the maquis and other plants of submediterranean dry ecosystems (species such as thyme, \"Thymus vulgaris\", and rosemary, \"Rosmarinus officinalis\"); others include heather species (e.g. \"Calluna vulgaris\" and \"Ericas\"), African wild olive (\"Olea europaea\" ssp. \"cuspidata\") and edelweiss (\"Leontopodium alpinum\"). Chamaephytes also include cushion plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "12327097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12327097", "title": "The Complete Works of Charles Darwin Online", "text": "The Complete Works of Charles Darwin Online\n\nThe Complete Work of Charles Darwin Online (or Darwin Online) is a freely-accessible website containing the complete print and manuscript works of Charles Darwin, as well as related supplementary material.\n\nDarwin Online is a research project and website based at the National University of Singapore. It aims to provide all available print and manuscript material except unpublished letters, which are being made available separately by the Darwin Correspondence Project. In addition Darwin Online includes the largest bibliographical list of Darwin's publications and the largest union catalogue of Darwin papers and manuscripts worldwide. The site also provides an extensive collection of related materials such as reviews of Darwin's books, descriptions of his Beagle specimens, obituaries and recollections and works cited or read by Darwin. There is also general history and commentary—some from published sources and some prepared for the project. \n\nThe project began in 2002 and first produced a pilot website, \"The writings of Charles Darwin on the web\", replaced in October 2006 by the new website. The launch was widely reported, and the project has been widely reviewed by professional publications in biology, and librarianship.\n\nThe site contains at least one copy of all known Darwin publications, both as searchable text (98,000 pages) and full colour images (80,000 images). Most of this material was not previously available on the internet – or never even reproduced in any form. New items are still being found and added, along with further editions, translations and transcriptions of Darwin's handwritten papers. \nIn April 2008 Darwin's private papers were launched. The event marked the largest release of new materials by and about Darwin ever published. The collection covers c. 20,000 items across c. 90,000 electronic images. One notable item is the Diary of Emma Darwin (1808–1896), Darwin's wife.\n\nThe site is accessible open access free of charge. It is copyright, with permission for non-commercial use.\n\nThe project was privately funded by the founder and Director, John van Wyhe, from 2002-5. From 2005-8 the project was sponsored by the United Kingdom Arts and Humanities Research Council. The principal grantees John van Wyhe of Christ's College. University of Cambridge is Director of the project; James Secord of the Department of History and Philosophy of Science, University of Cambridge and Janet Browne of the Wellcome Trust Centre for the History of Medicine, University College London were the principal investigators for the grant. The project is now supported by private donation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1696077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1696077", "title": "The Naturalist on the River Amazons", "text": "The Naturalist on the River Amazons\n\nThe Naturalist on the River Amazons, subtitled \"A Record of the Adventures, Habits of Animals, Sketches of Brazilian and Indian Life, and Aspects of Nature under the Equator, during Eleven Years of Travel\", is an 1863 book by the British naturalist Henry Walter Bates about his expedition to the Amazon basin. Bates and his friend Alfred Russel Wallace set out to obtain new species and new evidence for evolution by natural selection, as well as exotic specimens to sell. He explored thousands of miles of the Amazon and its tributaries, and collected over 14,000 species, of which 8,000 were new to science. His observations of the coloration of butterflies led him to discover Batesian mimicry.\n\nThe book contains an evenly distributed mixture of natural history, travel, and observation of human societies, including the towns with their Catholic processions. Only the most remarkable discoveries of animals and plants are described, and theories such as evolution and mimicry are barely mentioned. Bates remarks that finding a new species is only the start; he also describes animal behaviour, sometimes in detail, as for the army ants. He constantly relates the wildlife to the people, explaining how the people hunt, what they eat and what they use as medicines. The book is illustrated with drawings by leading artists including E. W. Robinson, Josiah Wood Whymper, Joseph Wolf and Johann Baptist Zwecker.\n\nOn Bates's return to England, he was encouraged by Charles Darwin to write up his eleven-year stay in the Amazon as a book. The result was widely admired, not least by Darwin; other reviewers sometimes disagreed with the book's support for evolution, but generally enjoyed his account of the journey, scenery, people, and natural history. The book has been reprinted many times, mostly in Bates's own effective abridgement for the second edition, which omitted the more technical descriptions.\n\nThe first edition, in 1863, was long and full of technical description. The second edition, in 1864, was abridged, with most of the technical description removed, making for a shorter and more readable book which has been reprinted many times. Bates prefaced the 1864 edition by writing\n\nAn unabridged edition was reissued only after 30 years, in 1892; it appeared together with a 'memoir' of Bates by Edward Clodd.\n\n\nIn 1847, Bates and his friend Alfred Russel Wallace, both in their early twenties, agreed that they would jointly make a collecting trip to the Amazon \"towards solving the problem of origin of species\". They had been inspired by reading the American entomologist William Henry Edwards's pioneering 1847 book \"A Voyage Up the River Amazon, with a residency at Pará\".\n\nNeither had much money, so they determined to fund themselves by collecting and selling fine specimens of birds and insects. Both made extensive travels — in different parts of the Amazon basin — creating large natural history collections, especially of insects. Wallace sailed back to England in 1852 after four years; on the voyage, his ship caught fire, and his collection was destroyed; undeterred, he set out again, leading eventually (1869) to a comparable book, \"The Malay Archipelago\". By the time he came home in November 1859, Bates had collected over 14,000 species, of which 8,000 were new to science. His observations of the coloration of butterflies led him to describe what is now called Batesian mimicry, where an edible species protects itself from predators by appearing like a distasteful species. Bates's account of his stay, including observations of nature and the people around him, occupies his book.\n\nIn the abridged version, there is a balance between descriptions of places and adventures, and the wildlife seen there. The style is accurate, but vivid and direct:\n\nThe book begins and ends suddenly. The journey out, as reviewer Joseph James observes, is dismissed in a few words. The last few lines of the book run:\n\nThere are 39 illustrations, some of animals and plants, some of human topics such as the \"Masked-dance and wedding-feast of Tucuna Indians\", which is signed by Josiah Wood Whymper. Some illustrations including \"Turtle Fishing and Adventure with Alligator\" are by the German illustrator Johann Baptist Zwecker; some, such as \"Bird-Killing Spider (Mygale Avicularia) Attacking Finches\" are by E.W. Robinson; others by the zoological artist Joseph Wolf.\n\nThe structure of the readable, cut-down second edition of 1864 is as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCharles Darwin, having encouraged Bates to publish an account of his travels, read \"The Naturalist on the River Amazons\" with great pleasure, writing to Bates on 18 April 1863 that\n\nDarwin noted in his letter that \"Athenaeum\" magazine reviewed the book coldly and insolently, while the \"Reader\" received it warmly. Darwin published \"An Appreciation\" of the book in the \"Natural History Review\" in 1863, in which he notes that Bates sent back \"a mass of specimens\" of \"no less than 14,712 species\" (mostly of insects), of which 8000 were new to science. Darwin at once observes that although Bates is \"no mean authority\" on insects, the book is not limited to them, but ranges over natural history and more widely to describe his \"adventures during his journeyings up and down the mighty river\". Darwin clearly enjoyed Bates's account of the hyacinthine macaw, calling it a \"splendid bird\" with its \"enormous beak\" able to feed on mucuja palm nuts, and quoting Bates: \"which are so hard as to be difficult to break with a heavy hammer, are crushed to a pulp by the powerful beak of this Macaw.\" Darwin took the opportunity to hit back at the \"Athenaeum\" magazine which had criticised Bates's book, at the same time painting a picture of Bates's lonely life in the rainforest:\n\nDarwin notes that \"We need hardly say that Mr. Bates... is a zealous advocate of the hypothesis of the origin of species by derivation from a common stock\", in other words that Bates was a staunch Darwinian. Darwin was happy to have the \"Naturalist\" on his side, and to use the book in the \"Origin of Species\" debate which was still heated in 1863. In particular, Darwin was struck by Bates's robust evidence of mimicry in \"the Butterflies of the genus \"Heliconius\"\". Here Darwin quotes nearly a whole page from Bates's conclusions, including Bates's view of his own findings that hint at speciation actually in progress:\n\nThe \"London Quarterly Review\" began with the observation that \"When an intelligent man tells us that he has spent eleven of the best years of his life in any district, we may be pretty sure he has something to say about it which will interest even those who generally find travels dull reading\". The reviewer finds Bates among the most readable, and free of the usual \"personal twaddle\" of travel and adventure books. The reviewer also remarks on Bates's subtitle \"...of the origin of species\", that Wallace had taken up that theme more fully. In the reviewer's opinion, Bates says little about \"the Darwinian hypothesis\", focusing instead steadily on natural history, while making \"very shrewd remarks\" about human society and giving \"most glowing\" descriptions of tropical scenery. The reviewer notes that most of the people Bates meets \"had a tinge of colour\" but made the \"lonely Englishman\" comfortable with their \"winning cordiality\", and is amused that in a feast in Ega an Indian dressed up as an entomologist, complete with insect-net, hunting-bag, pincushion, and an old pair of spectacles. As for nature, the reviewer considers that \"in Brazil man is oppressed, crushed, by the immensity of nature\".\n\nBates's occasional hints at Darwinian evolution are unwelcome or misunderstood by the reviewer, as when Bates writes that if a kind of seed is found in two places, we have to \"come to the strange conclusion\" it has been created twice unless we can show it can be carried that far; but the reviewer finds Bates in \"too great a hurry \"to come to conclusions\"\" (sic). The reviewer, too, objects to Bates's illustration of \"transition forms between \"Heliconius Melpomene\" and \"H. Thelxiope\", which he thinks are no more different than \"a couple of Dorking hens\". Bates's assumption that all forest animals are adapted to forest life is rejected by the reviewer, who sees the same features as signs of a beneficent Creator; while his mention of \"slow adaptation of the fauna of a forest-clad country throughout an immense lapse of geological time\" is criticised for being \"haunted\" by this \"spectre of time\". However the reviewer is fascinated by the variety of life described in the book, and by Bates's \"rapturous manner\" of speaking about how delicious monkey flesh is, which \"almost puts a premium on cannibalism\". The review concludes \"not without regret\" (at such an enjoyable book), and assures readers \"that they will not find him heavy reading\"; supposes that 11 years was \"perhaps a little too much\" of tropical life; and recommends intending museum curators to try it for \"a year or two\".\n\nAn unabridged edition was reviewed by botanist and geologist Joseph F. James (1857-1897) in \"Science\" in 1893. James was reviewing a book which was at that time already a 30-year-old classic that had been reprinted at least four times. He compared it to Gilbert White's 1789 \"The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne\", Darwin's \"Voyage of the Beagle\", and Alfred Russel Wallace's \"The Malay Archipelago\", writing that\n\nJames notes that \"on the appearance of the book in 1868 it met with cordial praise from all quarters\". Despite his professed liking for Bates's \"direct and concise\" style, he quotes at length Bates' description of the tropics, with the\n\nJames spends much space in his review quoting Bates's account of the strangling fig, called the \"Murderer Liana or Sipo\", which he uses to emphasize the \"struggle for existence\" between plants, as much as for animals. Bates explains how the fig grows rings around the \"victim\" tree, which eventually dies, leaving the \"selfish parasite clasping in its arms the lifeless and decaying body of its victim\", so that the fig itself must quickly flower, fruit and die when its support fails. James observes that \"It is as much in the reflections that the varied phenomena under observation give rise to as in the descriptive portions that the value and charm of the book lie.\" Unable to resist a final quotation, even after admitting he has \"overstepped our space\", he cites Bates's description of his last night in the \"country of perpetual summer\", regretting he will have to live again in England with its \"gloomy winters\" and \"factory chimneys\"; but after Bates has returned, he rediscovers \"how incomparably superior is civilized life\" which can nourish \"feelings, tastes and intellect\".\n\nIn 1988, Alex Shoumatoff, writing in \"The New Yorker\", makes Bates's \"Naturalist\" his choice if he were allowed only one book for a tropical journey. In his view, it is \"the basic text\" and a monument of scientific travel writing. Shoumatoff had in fact spent eight months in Bates's \"glorious forest\" (he quotes) with a copy in his backpack; he thus admires Bates's acceptance of the inevitable discomfort and homesickness from personal knowledge, noting that Bates only complained when all the following had occurred together: he had been robbed, he had gone barefoot having worn out his shoes, he had received no parcels from England, and worst of all he had nothing left to read. But otherwise Bates was \"lost in wonder\" at the astonishing diversity of the natural history of the Amazons. He was, writes Shoumatoff, one of the four largely self-educated geniuses who pioneered tropical biology, and who all knew each other: Darwin, Wallace, Bates, and the botanist Richard Spruce.\nShoumatoff observes that \"Reading Bates is an emotional experience for someone who has travelled in Amazonia, because much of what he describes so poignantly is no longer there\"; that the \"charm and the genius\" of the book is that Bates covers both natural history and everything else that is going on — as the subtitle so accurately says, \"A Record of Adventures, Habits of Animals, Sketches of Brazilian and Indian Life, and Aspects of Nature Under the Equator, During Eleven Years of Travel.\"\n\nHe feels a dreamy quality in the best of Bates's writing, as when he meets a boa constrictor: \"On seeing me the reptile suddenly turned, and glided at an accelerated rate down the path. ...The rapidly moving and shining body looked like a stream of brown liquid flowing over the thick bed of fallen leaves.\" However he is less impressed with Bates's remarks about the \"intellectual inferiority\" of the natives, and observes that Bates was wrong about the fertility of tropical soils, which are often poor: the luxuriant growth results from rapid recycling of nutrients. He celebrates the \"famous closing passage\" of the book, where Bates expresses his \"deep misgivings\" about returning to England, and writes that recent \"progress\" in the Amazon is just as shocking.\n\nIn 2011 John G.T. Anderson chose to \"recommend the reader’s attention\" to Bates' \"Naturalist\" in the \"Journal of Natural History Education and Experience\", writing that \n\nAnderson writes that Bates threw himself eagerly into the local culture, writing warmly about the people as well as delighting in everything from the odd to the mundane \"in a modest yet engaging style that leaves this reader itching to go and see for himself.\" Noting that Bates collected over 8,000 species on the trip, the book shows, writes Anderson, how this was achieved:\n\nThe Zoological Society of London writes that \"This fascinating, lucidly written book is widely regarded as one of the greatest reports of natural history travels.\" It describes the book as \"an eloquently written compendium of curious natural facts and observations on Amazon life before the rubber boom, revealing the amazing zoological and botanical richness of the region\" and calls his specimens \"a hugely significant contribution to zoological discovery.\"\n\nBates's book is cited in papers for its accurate early observations, such as of the urticating hairs of tarantulas, the puddle drinking habits of butterflies, or of the rich insect fauna in the tropics. The book and Bates' Amazon trip are covered in lecture courses on evolution. The warm reception of Bates's \"Naturalist\" was not confined to scientists. The novelists D.H. Lawrence and George Orwell both wrote admiringly of the book. Lawrence wrote to his friend S. S. Koteliansky \"I should like, from the Everyman Library Bates' – \"Naturalist on the Amazon\"... because I intend some day to go to South America – to Peru or Ecuador, not the Amazon. But I know Bates is good.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44057611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44057611", "title": "Tokogeny", "text": "Tokogeny\n\nTokogeny or tocogeny is the biological relationship between parent and offspring, or more generally between ancestors and descendants. In contradistinction to phylogeny it applies to individual organisms as opposed to species.\n\nIn the tokogentic system shared characteristics are called \"traits\".\n"}
{"id": "2410688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2410688", "title": "Undine", "text": "Undine\n\nUndines (or ondines) are a category of imaginary elemental beings associated with water, first named in the alchemical writings of Paracelsus. Similar creatures are found in classical literature, particularly Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\". Later writers developed the undine into a water nymph in its own right, and it continues to live in modern literature and art through such adaptations as Hans Christian Andersen's \"The Little Mermaid\".\n\nUndines are almost invariably depicted as being female, and are usually found in forest pools and waterfalls. The group contains many species, including nereides, limnads, naiades and mermaids. Although resembling humans in form, they lack a human soul, so to achieve immortality they must acquire one by marrying a human. Such a union is not without risk for the man, because if he is unfaithful he is fated to die.\n\n\"Undine\" is a term that appears in the alchemical writings of Paracelsus, a Renaissance alchemist and physician. It is derived from the Latin word \"unda\", meaning \"wave\", and first appears in Paracelsus' book \"Liber de Nymphis, sylphis, pygmaeis et salamandris et de caeteris spiritibus\", published posthumously in 1658. \"Ondine\" is an alternative spelling, and has become a female given name.\n\nParacelsus believed that each of the four classical elements – earth, water, air and fire – is inhabited by different categories of elemental spirits, liminal creatures that share our world: gnomes, undines, sylphs and salamanders respectively. He describes these elementals as the \"invisible, spiritual counterparts of visible Nature ... many resembling human beings in shape, and inhabiting worlds of their own, unknown to man because his undeveloped senses were incapable of functioning beyond the limitations of the grosser elements.\"\n\nUndines are almost invariably depicted as being female, which is consistent with the ancient idea that water is a female element. They are usually found in forest pools and waterfalls, and their beautiful singing voices are sometimes heard over the sound of water. The group contains many species, including nereides, limnads, naiades, mermaids and potamides.\n\nWhat undines lack, compared to humans, is a soul. Marriage with a human shortens their lives on Earth, but earns them an immortal human soul.\n\nThe offspring of a union between an undine and a man are human with a soul, but also with some kind of aquatic characteristic, called a watermark. Moses Binswanger, the protagonist in Hansjörg Schneider's \"Das Wasserzeichen\" (1997), has a cleft in his throat, for instance, which must be periodically submerged in water to prevent it from becoming painful.\n\nThe ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles (c. 490 – c. 430 BC) was the first to propose that the four classical elements were sufficient to explain everything present in the world. The philosophy of nature spirits was also familiar to the ancient Egyptians and Greeks, and certainly to Paracelsus. Celtic languages scholar Henry Jenner has argued that the elementals grew out of the folklore that preceded them:\nDavid Gallagher argues that, although they had Paracelsus as a source, 19th and 20th-century German authors found inspiration for their many versions of undine in classical literature, particularly Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\", especially given the transformation of many of their undines into springs: Hyrie (book VII) and Egeria (book XV) are two such characters.\n\nLater writers embellished Paracelsus' undine classification by developing it into a water nymph in its own right. The romance \"Undine\" by Friedrich de la Motte Fouqué, published in 1811, is based on a passage in Paracelsus' \"Liber de Nymphis\" in which he relates how an undine can acquire an immortal soul by marrying a human, although it likely also borrows from the 17th-century Rosicrucian novel \"Comte de Gabalis\".\n\n\"Ondine\" was the title of one of the poems in Aloysius Bertrand's collection \"Gaspard de la Nuit\" of 1842. This poem inspired the first movement of Maurice Ravel's 1908 piano suite \"Gaspard de la nuit\".\n\nThe character of Mélisande from Maurice Maeterlinck's symbolist play \"Pelléas et Mélisande\" has been seen as an Undine figure. Debussy, Sibelius, Fauré, and Schoenberg all wrote music adaptions of the play. The 1939 play \"Ondine\" by French dramatist Jean Giradoux is also based upon Fouqué's novella, as is a ballet by composer Hans Werner Henze and choreographer Frederick Ashton with Margot Fonteyn as Undine. Austrian author Ingeborg Bachmann, a friend of Henze's who collaborated with him frequently, attended the premiere of the ballet in London, and published her short story \"Undine geht\" in the collection \"Das dreißigste Jahr\" (1961), in which Undine \"is neither a human nor a water spirit, but an idea\".\n\nFouqué's \"Undine\" also exerted an influence on Hans Christian Andersen's \"The Little Mermaid\" (1837), and H.D. plays on this identification in her autobiographical novel \"HERmione\" (1927). Burton Pollin notes the popularity of the tale in the English-speaking world: translations in English appeared in 1818 and 1830, and a \"superior version\" was published by American churchman Thomas Tracy in 1839 and reprinted in 1824, 1840, 1844, and 1845; he estimates that by 1966 almost a hundred English versions had been printed, including adaptations for children. Edgar Allan Poe was profoundly influenced by Fouqué's tale, according to Pollin, which may have come about through Poe's broad reading of Walter Scott and Samuel Taylor Coleridge: Scott had derived the character of the White Lady of Avenel (\"The Monastery\", 1820) from \"Undine\", and a passage by Coleridge on \"Undine\" was reprinted in Tracy's 1839 edition.\n\nCongenital central hypoventilation syndrome, a rare medical condition in which sufferers lack autonomic control of their breathing and are hence at risk of suffocation while sleeping, is also known as Ondine's curse. Ondine, the eponymous heroine of Giradoux's play, tells her future husband Hans, whom she has just met, that \"I shall be the shoes of your feet ... I shall be the breath of your lungs\". Ondine makes a pact with her uncle, the King of the Ondines, that if Hans ever deceives her he will die. After their honeymoon Hans is reunited with his first love, the Princess Bertha, and Ondine leaves him, only to be captured by a fisherman six months later. On meeting Ondine again on the day of his wedding to Bertha, Hans tells her that \"all the things my body once did by itself, it does now only by special order ... A single moment of inattention and I forget to breathe\". Hans and Ondine kiss, and he dies.\n\n\n"}
