{"id": "219732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219732", "title": "Action Française", "text": "Action Française\n\nAction française (, AF; ) is a French right-wing political movement. The name was also given to a journal associated with the movement.\n\nThe movement and the journal were founded by Maurice Pujo and Henri Vaugeois in 1899, as a nationalist reaction against the intervention of left-wing intellectuals on the behalf of Alfred Dreyfus. Charles Maurras quickly joined \"Action française\" and became its principal ideologist. Under the influence of Maurras, \"Action française\" became monarchist, counter-revolutionary (objecting to the legacy of the French Revolution) and anti-democratic, and supported Integralism and Catholicism.\n\nShortly after it was created, \"Action Française\" tried to influence public opinion by turning its journal to a daily newspaper and by setting up various organizations. By 1914, it had become the best structured and the most vital nationalist movement in France. In the inter-war period, the movement enjoyed prestige and influence, but its popularity gradually declined as a result of the rise of fascism and of a rupture in the relations with the Catholic Church. During the Second World War, \"Action française\" supported the Vichy Regime and Marshal Philippe Pétain. After the fall of Vichy, its newspaper was banned and Maurras was sentenced to life imprisonment. The movement nevertheless continued to exist due to new publications and political movements. Although \"Action française\" is not a major force in the right as it used to be, its ideas have remained influential.\n\nThe ideology of \"Action française\" was dominated by the thought of Charles Maurras, following his adherence and his conversion of the movement's founders to monarchism. The movement supported a restoration of the monarchy and, after the 1905 law on the separation of Church and State, the restoration of Roman Catholicism as the state religion, even though Maurras was an agnostic himself. It should not be considered that the movement intended to restore real power to the king, merely to set him up as a rallying point in distinction to the Third Republic of France which was considered corrupt and unworkable by many of its opponents, whom they hoped to come to their banner.\n\nThe movement advocated decentralization (a \"federal monarchy\"), with the restoration of pre-Revolutionary liberties to the ancient provinces of France (replaced during the Revolution by the departmental system). It aimed to achieve a restoration by means of a \"coup d'état\", probably involving a transitional authoritarian government.\n\n\"Action française\" was not focused on denouncing one social or political group as the conspiratorial source of ills befalling France. Different groups of the French far right had especial animus against either the Jews, Huguenots (French Protestants), or Freemasons. To these Maurras added unspecific foreigners residing in France, who had been outside French law under the \"Ancien Régime\", and to whom he invented a slur name derived from ancient Greek history: \"métèques\". These four groups of \"internal foreigners\" Maurras called \"les quatre états confédérés\" and were all considered to be part of \"Anti-France\". Of course he was also opposed to socialism, and, after the 1917 October Revolution, to communists, but antagonism against them did not have to be constructed or marshalled (although the Protestants and the Freemasons were traditional supporters of the Republic, pejoratively called \"la gueuse\" (the slut) by the AF, and were thus in general left-wing).\n\nIn 1899, Maurice Pujo and Henri Vaugeois left the nationalist mouvement \"Ligue de la Patrie française\" and established a new movement, called \"Action française\", and a new journal, \"Revue de l'Action française\". This was their nationalist reaction against the intervention of left-wing intellectuals on the behalf of Alfred Dreyfus.\n\nCharles Maurras quickly joined \"Action française\" and became its principal ideologist. Under the influence of Maurras, \"Action française\" became monarchist, counter-revolutionary (objecting to the legacy of the French Revolution) and anti-democratic, and supported integralism and Catholicism. The Dreyfus affair gave some Catholics the impression that Catholicism is not compatible with democracy. Therefore, they regarded \"Action française\" as rampart of religion and the most fitting expression of the church doctrine regarding society.\n\nIn its early years, \"Action française\" tried to influence public opinion and to spread its ideas. \nFor example, it created related organizations, such as student groups.\nThe political organization of the movement, the Ligue d'Action Française, was launched in the spring of 1905, as was the Action Française Federation of Students, directed by Lucien Moreau.\n\"L'Institut d'Action française\" was created in 1906 as an alternative institute for higher education. In 1908 the movement's periodical was turned to a daily newspaper, called simply \"Action française\". Camelots du Roi, the movement's youth wing, was created in the same year to sell the newspaper in the streets. Its members also served as a paramilitary wing, providing security for meetings and engaging in street violence with political opponents. The newspaper's literary quality and polemical vigor attracted readers and made Maurras and the movement significant figures in French politics. By 1914, \"Action française\" was the best structured and the most vital nationalist movement in France.\n\nDuring the First World War, \"Action française\" supported the prime minister Georges Clemenceau and the will to defeat the Germans. France's victory in the war, and the movement's anti-German intransigence on the peace terms resulted in a peak of success, prestige and influence in the inter-war period. For example, in 1917 it moved into new spacious offices on the rue Caumartin, near St. Lazare train station.\nHowever, in the French legislative elections of 16 November 1919 Bernard de Vésins, president of the Ligue d'Action française, was defeated in the first district of Paris.\n\n\"Action française\" exploited the disquiet aroused on the right by the victory of the left-wing coalition in 1924 (Cartel des gauches) and the horror of communism, sending about thirty candidates to the French parliament. Well-known writers endorsed the movement, which advertised itself as the thinking man's party. Literary reviews, especially \"Revue universelle\", spread the message of \"Action française\". The polemics of the review, its personal attacks on leaders, and its systematic exploitation of scandals and crises helped detach some of the intellectuals from their allegiance to the republic and democracy. This agitation culminated in the 6 February 1934 crisis.\n\nThe successes shaped the ideology of \"Action française\". It became more integrated into mainstream conservatism, stressing patriotism and Catholicism as opposed to monarchism.\n\nIn spite of the movement's support for Roman Catholicism as a state religion and the fact that the vast majority of its members were practising Catholics (indeed, they included significant numbers of clergy), some Catholics regarded it with distrust.\n\nMuch of this was due to the influence of Maurras, an agnostic whose advocacy of Catholicism was due to his belief that it was a factor of social cohesion and stability and to its importance in French history. This rather utilitarian view of religion disturbed people who were often in agreement with many of his ideas. Its influence on young Catholics was also considered problematic. Thus, on 29 December 1926, Pope Pius XI condemned \"Action française\".\n\nSeveral of Maurras's writings, including the newspaper were placed on the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" at the same time, on 9 January 1927, with \"Action française\" being the first newspaper ever placed on the Roman Catholic Church's list of banned books.\nThis was a devastating blow to the movement. On 8 March 1927 AF members were prohibited from receiving the sacraments. Many of its members left (two Catholics who were forced to look for a different path in politics and life were writers François Mauriac and Georges Bernanos); and it entered a period of decline.\n\nIn 1939, following the Spanish Civil War and a revival of anti-communism in the Catholic Church, Pope Pius XII decided to end the condemnation. Thereafter, \"Action française\" claimed that the condemnation had been declared for political purposes.\n\nDespite the 1926 Papal condemnation, \"Action française\" remained popular during the interwar period, being one of the most important far right leagues, along with the \"Croix-de-Feu\" and others. As increasing numbers of people in France (as in Europe as a whole) turned to authoritarian political movements, many turned to \"Action française\". It thus continued to recruit members from the new generations, such as Robert Brasillach (who would become an infamous collaborationist), Thierry Maulnier, Lucien Rebatet, etc. It was marginally represented for a time in the Chamber of Deputies, notably by Léon Daudet, elected in the right-wing \"Chambre bleue horizon\" (1919–1924).\n\nHowever, with the rise of fascism and the creation of seemingly fascist leagues, added to the 1926 Papal condemnation, the royalist movement was weakened by various dissidents: Georges Valois would create the fascist \"Faisceau\", Louis Dimier would break away, while other members (Eugène Deloncle, Gabriel Jeantet, etc.) created the terrorist \"La Cagoule\" group.\n\nThe retired Admiral Antoine Schwerer became president of the League in 1930, succeeding Bernard de Vésins in difficult circumstances.\nHe was a talented orator.\nAt the December 1931 congress, \"greeted by loud acclamation\", he gave himself to a full presentation of \"the general situation of France\", external, financial, economic, interior and religious. He concluded with a passionate statement,\n\nAntoine Schwerer was forced by illness to retire to Brittany in 1935.\nHe was succeeded as head of the League by François de Lassus. \n\nJohn Gunther wrote that of the more than 100 daily newspapers in Paris, only \"L'Humanité\" and \"Action Française\" were honest. The group participated in the 6 February 1934 crisis, which led to the fall of the second \"Cartel des gauches\" and to the replacement of Radical Édouard Daladier by conservative Gaston Doumergue. In foreign policy, Maurras and Bainville supported Pierre Laval's double alliance with Benito Mussolini's Fascist Italy and with the United Kingdom in the Stresa Front (1935) on one side, and with the Soviet Union on the other side, against the common enemy Nazi Germany. The \"Action française\" greeted Franco's appearance with delight, and supported the self-proclaimed \"Caudillo\" during the Spanish Civil War (1936–39). But the extra-parliamentary agitation brought by the various far-right leagues, including the AF, led Pierre Laval's government to outlaw militias and paramilitary leagues, leading to the dissolution of the AF on 13 February 1936 — the others leagues were dissolved only in June 1936 by the Popular Front.\n\nMarshal Philippe Pétain's proclamation of the Vichy regime and of the \"Révolution nationale\" after the failure of the Battle of France was acclaimed by Maurras as a \"divine surprise\", and he rallied the collaborationist regime. Royalist members hoped that Pétain would restore the monarchy, and the headquarters of the movement were moved from Paris to Vichy. However, the AF members were split between supporting the counter-revolutionary regime and their nationalism: after 1942, and in particular in 1943, some members, such as Henri d'Astier de la Vigerie, Pierre Guillain de Bénouville or Honoré d'Estienne d'Orves joined the Resistance or escaped to join the Free French Forces. Others actively collaborated, while Maurras supported the Vichy government, but theoretically opposed Pétain's collaboration with the Germans. After the Liberation, he was condemned to life imprisonment in 1944, though he was reprieved in 1952. \"Action française\" was dissolved in 1944.\n\n\"Action française\" reformed itself in 1947, under the influence of Maurice Pujo, who created the newspaper ' (AF) and the counter-revolutionary movement, \"\" (\"National Restoration\"). After the death of Maurras in 1952, two rival newspapers, ' and Pierre Boutang's ' revived the Maurrassian legacy, until the demise of ' in 1967.\n\nIn 1971, a breakaway movement, the \"\" was formed by Bertrand Renouvin, Georges-Paul Wagner and others. It subsequently became the \"Nouvelle Action Royaliste\" (NAR), which supported the Orleanist heir (although in his 1968 reprinting of his study on the three French right-wing families, René Rémond still classified it in the legitimist movement because of its counter-revolutionary ideology). The movement called for the support of François Mitterrand in the 1981 presidential election, instead of supporting Jacques Chirac's \"neo-Gaullism\" movement (the Gaullists are classed by René Rémond as Bonapartists) or Valéry Giscard d'Estaing's \"Orleanist\" movement (because of his support of economic liberalism).\n\nIn the beginning of the 1980s, various AF figures, such as Georges-Paul Wagner or joined the ranks of Jean-Marie Le Pen's National Front (FN). Until the 1999 breakaway of the National Republican Movement (MNR) led by Bruno Mégret, Jean-Marie Le Pen's success was partly explained by his unification of the various far right families (such as traditionalist Catholics, royalists, neofascists, etc.) which share few ideals apart from a distrust of liberal democracy and a staunch anti-communism.\n\nThe AF movement still exists as the monarchist and anti-European Union \" and publishes a magazine called '. Its leader was Pierre Pujo (Maurice Pujo's son), who died in Paris on 10 November 2007. The student movement, called ', has approximately 15 local delegations (in places such as Paris, Normandy, Rennes, Bordeaux, and Forez) and a newspaper, \". Its President is Oliver Perceval.\n\nIn 1965, the German historian Ernst Nolte claimed that \"Action française\" was fascist. He considered \"Action française\" to be the first fascist party.\n\nCertain present-day scholars disagree with Nolte's view. For example, in 1999, the British historian Richard Thurlow claimed that \"his [Nolte's] linking of \"Action française\" to the fascist tradition was misleading\". Later, René Rémond and Stanley G. Payne described the differences between \"Action française\" and Italian fascism.\n\nIn the books \"Neither Right Nor Left\" and \"The Birth of Fascist Ideology\", Zeev Sternhell claimed that \"Action française\" influenced national syndicalism and, consequently, fascism.\nAccording to Sternhell, national syndicalism was formed by the combination between the integral nationalism of \"Action française\" and the revolutionary syndicalism of Georges Sorel. National syndicalism spread to Italy, and was later a part of the doctrine of Italian fascist movement.\nIn France, national syndicalism influenced the non-conformists of the 1930s. Based on the views of the non-conformists themselves, Sternhell argued that the non-conformists were actually a French form of fascism.\n\nAlthough it supported the Orléanist branch, according to historian René Rémond's categorization of French right-wing families, it would be closer to the legitimist branch, characterized by a complete rejection of all changes to France since the 1789 French Revolution. According to Rémond, supporters of the Orléanist branch tended to favour economic liberalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1174420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174420", "title": "American Association of Political Consultants", "text": "American Association of Political Consultants\n\nThe American Association of Political Consultants (AAPC) is the trade group for the political consulting profession in the United States. Founded in 1969, it is the world's largest organization of political consultants, public affairs professionals and communications specialists. Its \"multipartisan\" membership consists of political consultants, pollsters, media consultants, campaign managers, corporate public affairs officers, professors, lobbyists, fundraisers, congressional staffers, and vendors.\n\nThe American Association of Political Consultants maintains a Code of Professional Ethics for members. Applicants for AAPC membership are required to sign the code, and to live by the standards it sets, as a condition of membership in the organization.\n\nThe American Association of Political Consultants hosts the annual Pollie Awards and Conference. The Pollie Awards are the most prestigious awards in the field of political campaign and public affairs industry, in which the AAPC recognizes the best in the business of political professionals in hundreds of political campaign and public affairs categories. A new statue was made by New York firm Society Awards for the 2015 Pollie Awards. The AAPC also hosts several regional conferences throughout the year that feature several panelists who are specialists for the upcoming elections.\n\nThe AAPC seeks to set the standards of conduct for political and public affairs consulting through its Code of Professional Ethics. The AAPC is the only organization in its field with a code of ethics for political professionalism.\n\n\n\n\nAAPC Past Presidents \nDale Emmons, Whit Ayres, Tony Fazio, Wayne Johnson, Nancy Todd, Donna Lucas, Raymond Strother, Richard Woodword, Ralph D. Murphine, Thomas N. Edmonds, William R. Hamilton, Bradley O'Leary, Joseph R. Cerrell, Roy Pfautch, Phyllis B. Brothman, Matthew A. Reese, F. Clifton White, Joseph Napolitan, Founder\n\n"}
{"id": "48497256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48497256", "title": "Blair McDougall", "text": "Blair McDougall\n\nBlair McDougall is a political activist in the British Labour Party, best known as head strategist to the Better Together campaign during the Scottish independence referendum.\n\nHe was educated at the University of Glasgow, where as chair of the Labour Club he was Ross Kemp's campaign manager during the 1999 Rectorial election. \n\nHe went on to serve as chair of Scottish Labour Students 2001-2003 before becoming a special adviser to Ian McCartney, Minister for Trade, Foreign and Commonwealth Office and James Purnell, Secretary of State for Culture, Media & Sport in the governments of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.\n\nIn 2006 he took the post of Youth Representative on the NEC (UK National Executive Committee). \n\nFollowing Labour's defeat in the 2010 General election, McDougall coordinated David Miliband's unsuccessful campaign for the party leadership, and subsequently founded Movement for Change, an umbrella group for community organisers. He became Campaign Director of Better Together in 2012.\n\nAfter the No vote in the referendum on 18 September 2014, McDougall was given an advisory role in Jim Murphy's campaign for the Scottish Labour leadership. \n\nMcDougall was confirmed as the Scottish Labour candidate for East Renfrewshire in the 2017 UK general election. He came third in that election, with 26.7% of the vote, a fall in the Labour vote of over 7 points as compared with the 2015 election, in which Labour candidate Jim Murphy came second with 34% of the vote.\n"}
{"id": "33068350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33068350", "title": "Boycotts of Israel in sports", "text": "Boycotts of Israel in sports\n\nBoycotts of Israel in sports refer to various disqualifications and denial of Israeli athletes. As part of a more or less systematic boycott of Israel, Israeli athletes and teams have been barred from some competitions. In many international competitions, where Israel does take part, such as the Olympic Games, some Arab and Muslim competitors avoid competing against Israelis. Some countries even compel their athletes not to compete against Israelis or in Israel.\n\nThe Israel Football Association was a member of the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) group of FIFA between 1954 and 1974. Because of the Arab League boycott of Israel, several Arab and Muslim states refused to compete against Israel. The political situation culminated in Israel winning the 1958 World Cup qualifying stage for Asia and Africa without playing a single game, forcing FIFA to schedule a playoff between Israel and Wales to ensure the Israeli team did not qualify without playing at least one game (which Wales won). In 1974, Israel was expelled from the AFC group by a resolution initiated by Kuwait, which was adopted by AFC by a vote of 17 to 13 with 6 abstentions. To get around the ban, Israel was admitted as an associated member of the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) in 1992, and was admitted as a full member of the UEFA group in 1994. Supporters of the Boycott Divestment Sanctions (BDS) movement have advocated for Israel to be expelled or suspended from FIFA, without success. On 24 August 2018 the President of the Palestinian Football Association (PFA) Jibril Rajoub was fined CHF 20,000 (US$20,333) and banned from FIFA matches for a year for inciting hatred and violence against an Argentinian team proposing to play a friendly match in Israel.\n\nIn 2007, Mushir Salem Jawher, a Kenyan-born marathoner, lost his Bahraini citizenship after competing in the Tiberias Marathon in Israel, but later that year reacquired Bahraini citizenship and competed again in the Tiberias Marathon in 2008, 2009 and 2010.\n\nIn 2009, there was an increased number of full or partial boycotts of Israeli athletes, probably related to Arab/Leftist fury over Operation Cast Lead. Israeli tennis star Shahar Peer was denied a visa to participate in a tournament in Dubai, leading to comments from stars like Serena Williams and Andy Roddick that were critical of the Dubai authorities' decision, with Roddick later pulling out of a tournament in Dubai. After a response that included a cable network cancelling its coverage of the event and a large fine for the Dubai Tennis Authorities, Dubai did issue a visa for Israeli tennis player Andy Ram to compete that year.\n\nTennis authorities in Malmö, Sweden wanted to cancel a Davis Cup match between Israel and Sweden because of anti-Israel riots and because the city council did not want the Israeli team competing in the city. The tennis authorities were unwilling to accept a Swedish forfeit, which would have eliminated Sweden from the competition, and decided to bar spectators from the match instead. As a punishment, the city was banned from hosting Davis Cup matches for five years.\n\nSupporters of the BDS movement also tried and failed to have Israeli teams barred from the 2012 London Olympics and the 2016 Rio Olympics. At the 2016 Rio Olympics, Egypt's Islam El Shehaby provoked outrage after refusing to shake hands with Israeli judoka, Or Sasson.\n\nDespite the country's international political issues, a growing number of Arab athletes are joining domestic Israeli sports teams and the international teams, including the Israel national football team. These include Rifaat Turk, Najwan Ghrayib, Walid Badir, Salim Toama, Abbas Suan, amongst others. Another Arab-Israeli, Johar Abu Lashin, born in Nazareth, was an IBO Welterweight champion.\n\nIn October 2017, when an Israeli won gold in an international judo championship in the United Arab Emirates, officials refused to fly the Israeli flag and play the Israeli national anthem, instead playing the official music of the International Judo Federation (IJF) and flying the IJF's logo. The UAE also banned Israeli athletes from wearing their country's symbols on uniforms, having to wear IJF uniforms. Other contestants received similar treatment. In December 2017, seven Israelis were denied visas by Saudi Arabia to compete in an international chess tournament. In October 2018, the UAE reversed its position allowing the Israeli flag be displayed and anthem played when an Israeli judoka won a gold medal.\n\nOn 24 May 2018, a team of international jurists, including Harvard Professor Alan Dershowitz, announced a plan to petition the international Court of Arbitration for Sport against the exclusion of Israel’s flag and anthem at sporting events in Arab countries. In July 2018, the International Judo Federation cancelled two grand slam judo events, in Tunis and Abu Dhabi, because Israeli flags were not allowed to be raised. Also in July 2018, the World Chess Federation said it will ban Tunisia from hosting the international chess competition in 2019 if it does not grant a visa to Israeli contestants, including a seven-year-old Israeli girl champion.\n\nSince the 21st century, Israeli athletes competing in tournaments have faced boycotts by athletes from Muslim countries (primarily Iran), speculated to be the result of political interferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "18671104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18671104", "title": "Cabinet of Tokelau", "text": "Cabinet of Tokelau\n\nThe Cabinet of Tokelau (also called the Office of the Council of Faipule) is the chief executive body of Tokelau.\n\nFalani Aukuso was the director of the Office of the Council of Faipule from 1994 to 2004.\n"}
{"id": "18120775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18120775", "title": "Catholic Radical Alliance", "text": "Catholic Radical Alliance\n\nThe Catholic Radical Alliance was founded in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1937 by Roman Catholic priests Charles Owen Rice, Carl Hensler, and George Barry O'Toole, with the approval of their bishop, Hugh C. Boyle. It supported the unionization of workers in the H.J. Heinz Company and the Loose Wiles Biscuit Company in Pittsburgh. In addition to union activities, it founded a house of hospitality, St. Joseph's, which is still active as of 2018. It disassociated itself from the Catholic Worker Movement in World War II, over a disagreement with the Catholic Worker's pacifist stance.\n\n"}
{"id": "3246770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3246770", "title": "Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea", "text": "Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea\n\nThe Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea (CGDK; , \"Odthaphibeal Chamrouh Kampouchea Brachathibtey\"), renamed to the National Government of Cambodia (NGC; , \"Rodthaphibeal Cheate nei Kampouchea\") from 1990, was a coalition government in exile composed of three Cambodian political factions, namely Prince Norodom Sihanouk's FUNCINPEC party, the Party of Democratic Kampuchea (PDK; often referred to as the Khmer Rouge) and the Khmer People's National Liberation Front (KPNLF) formed in 1982, broadening the \"de facto\" deposed Democratic Kampuchea regime. For most of its existence, it was the internationally recognized government of Cambodia.\n\nThe signing ceremony of the coalition took place in Kuala Lumpur on 22 June 1982. The president of the coalition was Prince Norodom Sihanouk, the prime minister was the KPNLF leader Son Sann and the foreign secretary was PDK leader Khieu Samphan.\nThe CGDK was allowed to retain the Cambodian/Kampuchean seat in the United Nations on the premise that it was a legitimate Cambodian government in contrast to the pro-Vietnamese People's Republic of Kampuchea regime (the Western states had previously opposed proposals by the Eastern Bloc countries to replace the Khmer Rouge-held seat of Cambodia by the representation of the Vietnamese-installed regime). The United Nations General Assembly voted on the proposed ouster of Democratic Kampuchea: 91 rejected the proposal, there were 29 countries in favour and 26 abstentions. In contrast, the results in 1981 had been 77–37–31. The CGDK was also recognised by North Korea, whose leader, Kim Il-Sung had offered Sihanouk sanctuary after he was deposed by Lon Nol in 1970. During a meeting in Pyongyang between Kim Il-sung and Sihanouk on 10 April 1986, Kim Il-Sung reassured Sihanouk that North Korea would continue to regard him as the legitimate head of state of Cambodia.\n\nPrior to the formation of the CGDK political coalition, in the late 1980s and early 1990s the Sonn Sann and Sihanouk opposition forces, then known as the KPNLF and FUNCINPEC, drew some military and financial support from the United States, which sought to assist these two movements as part of the Reagan Doctrine effort to counter Soviet and Vietnamese involvement in Cambodia. In 1984 and 1985, the Vietnamese army's offensives severely weakened the CGDK troops' positions, in effect eliminating the two non-communist factions as military players, leaving the Khmer Rouge as the sole military force of importance of the CGDK. One of the Reagan Doctrine's principal architects, The Heritage Foundation's Michael Johns, visited with Sonn Sann and Sihanouk forces in Cambodia in 1987 and returned to Washington urging expanded United States support for the KPNLF and the Sihanouk resistance forces as a third alternative to both the Vietnamese-installed and supported Cambodian government and the Khmer Rouge, which also was resisting the government.\n\nAlthough the PDK was for the most part isolated from diplomacy, their National Army of Democratic Kampuchea were the largest and most effective armed forces of the CGDK. In 1987, Prince Sihanouk proceeded to take a leave of absence from his position as the president of the CGDK, a move that raised the hopes of Hanoi and Moscow that he would depart the coalition.\n\nIn 1990, in the run up to the United Nations sponsored Paris Peace Agreement of 1991 the CGDK renamed itself the National Government of Cambodia. It was dissolved in 1993, a year which saw the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia turn power over to the restored Kingdom of Cambodia. In July 1994, the Khmer Rouge would form an internationally unrecognised rival government known as the Provisional Government of National Union and National Salvation of Cambodia.\n\n"}
{"id": "3481010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3481010", "title": "Commercial property", "text": "Commercial property\n\nThe term commercial property (also called commercial real estate, investment or income property) refers to buildings or land intended to generate a profit, either from capital gain or rental income. Commercial property includes office buildings, industrial property, medical centers, hotels, malls, retail stores, farm land, multifamily housing buildings, warehouses, and garages. In many states, residential property containing more than a certain number of units qualifies as commercial property for borrowing and tax purposes.\n\nCommercial real estate is commonly divided into six categories:\n\n\nOf these, only the first five are classified as being commercial buildings. Residential income property may also signify multifamily apartments.\n\nThe basic elements of an investment are cash inflows, outflows, timing of cash flows, and risk. The ability to analyze these elements is key in providing services to investors in commercial real estate.\n\nCash inflows and outflows are the money that is put into, or received from, the property including the original purchase cost and sale revenue over the entire life of the investment. An example of this sort of investment is a real estate fund.\n\nCash inflows include the following:\n\nCash outflows include:\n\nThe timing of cash inflows and outflows is important to know in order to project periods of positive and negative cash flows. Risk is dependent on market conditions, current tenants, and the likelihood that they will renew their leases year-over-year. It is important to be able to predict the probability that the cash inflows and outflows will be in the amounts predicted, what is the probability that the timing of them will be as predicted, and what the probability is that there may be unexpected cash flows, and in what amounts they might occur.\n\nThe total value of commercial property in the United States was approximately $11 trillion in 2009, as measured by the CoStar Group and published in the \"Journal of Real Estate Management\". The relative strength of the market is measured by the U.S. Commercial Real Estate Index which is composed of eight economic drivers and is calculated weekly,\n\nAccording to Real Capital Analytics, a New York real estate research firm, more than $160 billion of commercial properties in the United States are now in default, foreclosure, or bankruptcy. In Europe, approximately half of the €960 billion of debt backed by European commercial real estate is expected to require refinancing in the next three years, according to PropertyMall, a UK‑based commercial property news provider PropertyMall. Additionally, the economic conditions surrounding future interest rate hikes; which could put renewed pressure on valuations, complicate loan refinancing, and impede debt servicing could cause major dislocation in commercial real estate markets.\n\nHowever, the contribution to Europe's economy in 2012 can be estimated at around €285 billion according to EPRA and INREV, not to mention social benefits of an efficient real estate sector. It is estimated that commercial property is responsible for securing around 4 million jobs across Europe.\n\nTypically, a broker will identify a property that fits a set of criteria set out by an acquisitions, capital investment, or private equity firm. The firm will perform an informal assessment of the property location and potential profitability, and if they are interested, they will signal their intent to move forward with a letter of intent (LOI).\n\nAn investment committee with senior acquisitions executives reviews all pending deals and advises whether to move forward with a purchase and sale agreement, or PSA, and a deposit. A PSA is an exclusive agreement between the seller and a single interested buyer. No other LOIs or PSA may exist for one property at a time.\n\nOnce a PSA is executed, the acquisitions team usually has 30 days to perform due diligence, unless an extension is granted. During this 30-day period, the acquisitions team investigates the property thoroughly in an attempt to uncover any undesirable characteristics, damage, or other circumstances that could affect the profitability or final selling price of the property.\n\nThe acquisitions team may want to investigate the rent roll, existing vendor contracts, city permits, insurance policies, etc.. The acquisitions firm may hire a third party to conduct an appraisal, environmental reports, traffic counts, and more. The ultimate goal is to gather as much information as possible to make an informed investment decision.\n\nOnce due diligence is complete, the acquisitions team must decide whether to move forward with the purchase to closing. Closing is a window of 10-15 days during which the acquisitions firm owes an additional deposit, and they must finalize financing.\n\nWhen a deal closes, post-closing processes may begin, including notifying tenants of an ownership change, transferring vendor relationships, and handing over relevant information to the asset management team.\n\n"}
{"id": "53672277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53672277", "title": "Competitiveness of elections", "text": "Competitiveness of elections\n\nCompetitiveness of elections is usually measured by the margin of victory.\n\nIn American federal elections, races for U.S. Senate tend to be more competitive than those for U.S. House of Representatives. Even in wave election years, the vast majority of U.S. House members keep their seats, with little pressure from the opposing party. Competition in U.S. House races has been in decline since at least the 1960s.\n"}
{"id": "15355557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15355557", "title": "Corruption in Angola", "text": "Corruption in Angola\n\nThe legacy of a 30-year civil war and 20 years of Soviet command economy left Angola in ruins and produced a centralized government with authoritarian tendencies which made possible the ownership of the nation's resources. \n\nAngola's president, Jose Eduardo dos Santos, has been accused of creating one of the most corrupt countries in Africa. He has ignored the everyday needs and concerns of citizens and has instead leveraged the country's oil wealth to accumulate a massive fortune for himself and his family. The president’s children, leading government officials and military officers have become incredibly wealthy, while much of the country's people live in poverty lacking access to basic services.\n\nThe president and his associates used government apparatus allowing themselves and their patronage networks a variety of legal and extra-legal options to extract private profit from Angola's economy. \n\nIn Angola's early post-independence history, most of these strategies involved the oil sector or the spending revenues legally derived from the oil sector, over time corruption evolved into to a variety of schemes involving companies controlled by the party elite and their patronage networks that operate in all sectors of the economy. Systemic corruption is possible on this scale because all the vital organs of the state (military, police, judiciary, legislature, bureaucracy, and media) are operated by those who prioritize their private interests within the patronage system over the responsibilities of their public position.\n\nThere are, however, some prospects for reform. A new President, João Lourenço was elected in August 2017 and has pledged to improve governance and combat corruption. He has removed the dos Santos family and their core associates from their state appointed positions and cancelled some of their patronage transfers, although it remains to be seen whether he intends to pursue true reform of the status quo.\n\n\nAngola's corruption index rankings have not changed substantially in the past decades; however, that does not mean that no changes have occurred. Ranking such as those above are based on perception surveys, their utility is generally questioned because: they measure perception, not occurrences of corruption; the survey questions imprecisely define corruption and provide little guidance about what constitutes high or low levels of corruption; people in different countries answer the previous questions in different ways, limiting the comparability across countries; and the ranking and numerical scale can make countries look further away from one another on the spectrum corruption than they really are.\n\nAngola's colonial era ended with the Angolan War of Independence against Portugal occurred between 1970 and 1975. Independence did not produce a unified Angola, however; the country plunged into years of civil war between the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) and the governing Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA). 30 years of war would produce historical legacies that combine to allow for the persistence of a highly corrupt government system.\n\nThe Angolan civil war was fought between the pro-western UNITA and the communist MPLA and had the characteristics typical of a Cold War era proxy war combined with a resource fueled struggle for control of the state apparatus between two rival strongmen. Regional countries were involved according to their Cold war alignment, the MLPA was even supported by Cuban troops. Oil production began to grow, but it was not a significant proportion of government revenue until towards the end of the period, most funding came from Soviet support.\nThe Soviet influence produced a highly centralized and weakly institutionalized government system controlled by a small group of people close to the president. Angola's land, resources, and infrastructure were nationalized during this time, concentrating all of the countries wealth in the state. The war precluded economic development in most of the country, only the oil sector, military, and coastal cities were funded by the state. These consequences would have an enduring effect on Angola's political economy by centralizing the economy around the president and the military and regionalizing economic development. Appropriation of state assets is rumored to be have been high during this period, although the limited connection to the international economy combined with an absence of transparency limits the knowledge of details and precision of estimates.\n\nWithdrawal of foreign powers at the end of the Cold War and pressure from the international community led to the 1991 Bicesse Accord: a tentative peace process between the MLPA and UNITA. As a consequence, the Angolan government was forced to begin a process of economic liberalization and transition to democracy. Elections were held in 1992, however UNITA and their leader Jonas Savimbi refused to accept defeat and civil war ensued. The civil war that leveled what was left of the countryside and killed an estimated 1000 people per day between 1992 and 2002 - interrupted somewhat by the Lusaka Peace Protocol on 20 November 1994 - until war resumed in 1998.\n\nWhile the elections did not bring peace, they did provide the MLPA with international political legitimacy. The MLPA continued to be the recognized government of Angola and maintained access to oil exports and financial markets which provided them with the resources necessary to consolidate control over the new democratic institutions and the newly opened economy. Oil revenues replaced Soviet support as Angola's main source of income during this time, growing to 1 million barrels per day in 2002.\n\nThe Cold War era had aggregated control of the Angolan State in a small group; simultaneously, nationalization during that era aggregated ownership of Angola's assets in the State. Combined with the chaos of the war, the MLPA was able to avoid a robust democratization process and instead create a system where the President has a high level of discretion and a low level of accountability with regards to government spending and appointing government positions. These factors allowed for very high levels of corruption during this period of time: direct appropriation of the government budget was common: the IMF estimates that approximately 1 billion dollars per year was appropriated from the state budget during this time. The economic liberalization process was abused to sell state assets (telecom companies, media outlets, large land concessions) to members of the presidential patronage network for a price below market value, such transactions were often funded by loans from the Angolan state or banks.\n\nPeace was achieved in 2002 with the defeat of UNITA, the Luena Memorandum was signed and elections were held in 2008, and a new constitution took effect in 2010. The constitution was drafted without public consultation and implemented without a ratification referendum. The new constitution increased the powers of the president such that there is no true division of powers and he is able to rule by presidential decree.\n\nAngola's oil production grew from 1 million to 2 million barrels per day, while the price of oil increased from the 20-30 dollar range to over $100 per barrel. Consequently, Angola became Africa's 3rd largest economy with a GDP of $120 billion in 2013. The high price of oil had a resource curse like effect: the large profits allowed for considerable appropriation to be obscured behind visible infrastructure projects.\n\nAlthough oil wealth did insulate Angola from the international leverage, they did face pressure to increase public service provision, create anti-corruption legislation, and improve transparency in the oil and financial sectors. Angola did make such improvements to remain in formal accordance with international norms and maintain access to international markets. These changes were not enforced, however; so no substantial reduction in corruption occurred - it merely took on more complicated forms when international laws necessitated.\n\nThe legacies of the previous eras produced a centralized and entrenched patronage system that included all aspects of governance and the economy that have proven to be quite resilient. There are, however, some prospects for change have occurred in recent years. The Angolan government has faced mounting fiscal pressure since the collapse of the price of oil in 2014 reduced Angola's GDP to 89 billion in 2016. The reduced revenues have made debt an issue, created a foreign exchange shortage, caused a currency devaluation and 42% inflation in 2016. The reduction in income has exposed the weakness of the country and produced a growing domestic protest movement in response to deteriorating conditions and further international pressure in response to the increased risk of insolvency in the Banks and Sonangol. Political change also offers some prospect for reform: João Lourenço was elected President in 2017. He has since removed the dos Santos family and other close associates from high level positions and pledged to improve governance and reduce corruption.\n\nCorruption occurs when and actor uses a public position to divert resources from the state to private individuals - the practice is systemic in Angola. The president places associates in positions of power in state institutions and enterprises, then they make decisions in their public capacity to allow for a variety of legal and extra-legal opportunities to extract private profit from Angola's economy. Strategies have evolved over time from direct embezzlement of oil revenues, to a variety of schemes involving companies controlled by the party elite and their patronage networks that have consistently appropriated resources from the Angolan state via: control over loans made by state capitalized financial institutions; land and resource concessions; monopolization of business and import licences; granting un-tendered contracts to their own companies; and including unnecessary joint-venture partners and overpaid consultants in the contracts of State Owned Enterprises and the government. The magnitude of appropriation was possible and sustainable over such a long period of time because of the centralization of authority in the economy and the vital organs of the state . The powerful actors in these institutions receive access to patronage and govern according to the private interests of the dos Santos Regime.\n\nObservers of Angola generally that corruption is endemic throughout the state system. There is much overlap, as well as intimate connections, between government officials and business figures in Angola - resulting many conflicts of interest. While Angola technically has the institutional and legislative structures typical of a democracy, the normal logic of horizontal accountability and depersonalized decision making in the best interests of the public does not apply - rather, the system has been described as a facade for the international community, whereby the operators of all branches of government collude to allow each other opportunities for private gain.\n\nAngola's elections are administered by two agencies: the CNE (Provincial Electoral Commission) is responsible for oversight; and the CIPE (Inter-ministerial Commission for the Preparation of the Elections) is responsible for administering the voting process. In theory there should be an element of horizontal accountability between the two institutions; however, at the federal level both institutions are operated by MLPA insiders and at the district level they are often represented by the same person.\n\nAngola's first elections since the civil war were held in 2008. The Southern African Development Community and the European Commission described Angola's 2008 elections as generally fair, but other observers have cited irregularities and violence as factors that make the elections less than equitable. Registration was limited in rural areas due to the documentation requirements, Angolan expatriates were not able to vote at embassies (despite the Voter Registration Law), and there was an assassination attempt against the leader of the opposition in the months leading up to the election. There were also allegations that the MLPA used their influence over the media to distort public perception in their favour. Prior to the 2008 elections, the MLPA unveiled a series of major infrastructure projects with public events that had the characteristics of a campaign rally while the media simultaneously produced reports accusing UNITA of stockpiling weapons and planning a war.\n\nIn the months before the 2017 election, both State owned media outlets and those privately owned by party insiders were used to favorably portray the MLPA and criticize UNITA in a manner similar to the 2008 elections. The elections were subject to allegations of outright falsification. The CNE announced an MLPA victory with 65% of the vote; however, media reports cite anonymous inside sources and allege that this figure was released well before the local voting centers had reported their results. UNITA claimed that it had tabulated the real results based on the vote counts of the local locations and the real result was: 47.6% for the MLPA and 40.2% for UNITA.\n\nAngola's business environment has been described as “one of the most difficult in the world” because of pervasive corruption and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. Angolan public servants routinely demand bribes, known as “gasosas.”; paying such bribes is an ordinary part of doing business in Angola. The 2018 World Bank Ease of Doing Business Index ranked Angola 175th out of 190 countries. The 2010 World Bank & IFC Enterprise survey found that 75% of firms found corruption to be an impediment to business and that they expected to pay bribes in approximately 50% of their interactions with Angolan officials.\nAngolan citizens often must also pay bribes to access basic public services such as healthcare, education, vehicle registration, and business permits. Police officers often extort payments at checkpoints.\n\nInterviews with members of the Angolan business community suggest that earning government contracts or acquiring business licences is impossible without connections. This is particularly true where Import Licences are concerned: they are tightly controlled and restricted to the upper levels of the dos Santos network, the MLPA, or the military elite. Angola imports most of its finished products because it has a small manufacturing sector and an export oriented agricultural sector. The consequence of not developing local production capacity and allowing the import of goods to be a protected monopoly is that Angolan cities are among the most expensive in the world, pricing ordinary Angolans out of being able to access products that would otherwise be significantly cheaper.\n\nThe function a judiciary is to impartially enforce the laws of the country and investigate potential violations; however, the Angolan judiciary is known to collaborate with the regime. The President appoints judges, many of whom are or were members of the MLPA or the military. Judges have been known to ignore or creatively interpret laws in situations where they hold a conflict of interest. The system is underfunded, understaffed and inefficient. There is a large backlog of cases and rural Municipal courts are not even operational, obliging citizens to turn to informal, traditional court systems.\n\nThe courts have also been used as instruments of repression against political opponents on numerous occasions. Notable examples include: the cases against journalist Rafael Marquis de Morais; a 6-year sentence to Cabindan activist José Marcos Mavungo in 2015; and the book club raids in 2015.\n\nOil has been Angola's core asset since independence. It has provided the government with a reliable and steadily increasing source of funds (other than instances of oil price volatility). Production rose from 150 000 barrels per day in 1980, to 645 000 bpd in 1995, to 2 million bpd in 2008. Oil currently provides approximately 80% of government revenue, as such it is also a major vehicle for appropriation.\n\nSonangol, the Angolan state oil company, was created and granted a monopoly over the country's offshore oil by the MLPA in 1976. By 1980, Sonangol had divided Angola's coastal waters into exploration blocks and opened the exploration rights for bidding by international companies. Sonangol then entered into joint ventures with a consortium of companies in each block to extract the oil. Sonangol did not have any offshore oil exploration or extraction capacity, the company simply collected rents by selling the rights to the oil during this time. Sonangol leveraged these partnerships to quickly accumulated wealth and capacities. By 1991, the company had expanded to include many subsidiaries with interests in every aspect of oil production. Despite its opaque finances and relationship to the regime, Sonangol was consistent in its external relationships and had cultivated a reputation as a competent and reliable business partner among the MNCs that are active in the country.\n\nThe Angolan oil sector an archetype of an enclave economy: it is physically removed from Angola, and not dependent on the country for labour, capital, infrastructure or demand. Sonangol and the MLPA managed it like a textbook example of a Rent-seeking Gatekeeper state that is a facade for a presidential patronage network. A proportion of Sonangol's revenue was consistently embezzled each year: rather than move from Sonangol to the Angolan government, billions of dollars simply disappeared. This was possible because: Angola's laws were ignored; the transparency of Sonangol and the government's budget was very low; and, Sonangol had many vaguely defined responsibilities beyond the oil sector that were used as an explanation. Based on a comparison of Angola's oil production against the total state budget the IMF estimates that $32 billion was appropriated in this way between 2007 and 2010. \nIn addition to direct embezzlement, Sonangol facilitates indirect modes of private appropriation, including: mandating joint ventures with low value added patronage companies; preferential treatment of favored companies during the awarding of exploration and extraction contracts; preferential treatment of its own subsidiaries in the awarding of ancillary service contracts; allowing companies to over charge for services; including unnecessary consultants in their contracts and paying them large fees.\n\nGovernment policy also enables corruption in the oil sector. The \"Angolanisation policy\", which began in the 1980s, mandated the employment of Angolans in the Oil sector. In the 1990s it expanded to mandate the participation of Angolan companies in the ancillary aspects of the oil sector, namely well servicing, construction, and general procurement of goods and services. This is widely understood as a mode of rent seeking, as the Angolan companies rarely ever add value to the project or create any jobs. There are simply owned by Angolan officials close to the President that are making use of a law put in place for this purpose.\n\nAnother more subtle form of corruption related to Sonangol involves its decision not to develop local refining capacity. Only one refinery is under construction, The Lobito Refinery, and its cost has tripled during the course of the project due to corruption and mismanagement. As a country with so much oil, it is likely that a competitive refining market or an efficient State Owned refiner could provide petroleum derivatives to the Angolan economy at a lower cost than it takes to import them, while simultaneously keeping the profits from this activity in the hands of the government. Instead, Angola has no refining capacity and a joint-venture between Trafigura, a Swiss MNC, and Cochan, a company owned by Vice-President Manuel Vicente (CEO of Sonangol from 1999-2012), General Manuel Dias (“Kopelipa”) and General Leopoldino Fragoso do Nascimento “Dino” has a monopoly on the import of petroleum derivatives. Angola spends approximately $170 million a month importing petroleum derivatives.\n\nThe 2014 collapse in oil price revealed the major problems at Sonangol. The dramatic reduction in income put the company in a position where it struggled to meet its financial obligations, and its corruption and questionable accounting practices were exposed. Since 2011 they had been showing a positive balance sheet, but only because they had been re-valuing their assets to obscure poor cash flow. In 2015, the former chairman of Sonangol's board of directors, Francisco Lemos, stated publicly that he believed Sonangol to be bankrupt. They maintained a 300 million dollar outstanding debt with Chevron throughout 2015 and in 2016, the China Development Bank suspended Sonangol's line of credit after they failed to deliver a shipment of oil.\n\nIn June 2016, President dos Santos appointed his daughter, Isabel dos Santos, as a CEO of the state-owned oil company, Sonangol. This presented a tremendous conflict of interest as she was politically connected and in control of other companies that were shareholders, debtors, creditors, suppliers, and customers of Sonangol. She engaged in number of corrupt activities during her tenure. She prioritized a $1 billion loan repayment to the Trafigura-Cochane joint venture that she is part to over other obligations. She also used her position to grant an exclusive supply contract for Sonangol's food purchases to her supermarket - Candando. She also made her company a preferred supplier for most other products. The contracts awarded by Sonangol to Candando are worth several hundred million dollars a year.\n\nMismanagement and appropriation are a serious problem in the Angolan banking system: by 2013, approximately $3.5 Billion dollars of defaulted loans existed in Angola's banks. Angolan banks have historically operated according to similar appropriation strategies: banks capitalized by the Angolan State are operated by individuals associated to the President that then invest the funds in complicated networks of companies that are ultimately controlled by members of the presidential patronage network. The investments are either: in the form of unsecured loans to companies registered in tax havens that default on the loan and launder the money through the international financial system; or, the money goes towards a real project in Angola, but the project is operated by a patronage company that gained the contract through an un-tendered process and will appropriate the investment over the course of the project.\n\nIn the largest financial fraud in Angola at the time, the Central Bank of Angola (also known as BNA) was the location of an alleged fraud case of about $160 million transferred to overseas accounts in 2009. Several money transfers were discovered from the Angolan treasury account at Banco Espírito Santo in London to bank accounts abroad controlled by the suspects. When the bill reached the minimum values of the BNA, it was the BES London itself that warned the authorities of Angola of the successive outflows of money. The case of fraud was revealed by the Portuguese newspaper \"Diário de Notícias\" in June 2011. Several key employees of the Angolan Finance Ministry and the BNA in Luande were sentenced to up to eight years in prison in 2011. There are still investigations going on in Portugal and Angola.\nIn 2010, 18 low-level employees of the central bank and finance ministry were arrested for embezzling roughly 137 million USD.\n\nIn 2010, a US senate corruption investigation committee reported that, \"Aguinaldo Jaime, who served as the governor of the National Bank of Angola from 1999 to 2002, initiated a series of suspicious US$ 50 million transactions with US banks. For each attempt, the banks, concerned about the likelihood of fraud, ultimately rejected the transfer or returned the money shortly after receiving it. The government could not account for approximately US$ 2.4 billion over the period of Jaime’s three-year tenure as central bank governor.”\n\nThe Angolan sovereign wealth fund (Fundo Soberano De Angola) was created in 2011 with an initial capitalization of $5 Billion USD. The President appointed his son, Jose Filomeno dos Santos, as chief executive, who the appointed long time associate Jean Claude Bastos as the funds manager. The fund has since been used according to the standard appropriation strategies for financial institutions. \nIn 2017, the paradise papers revealed that Jean-Claude Bastos was paid $90 million in management fees between 2014 and 2015. The money went to a variety of his companies registered in the Virgin Islands and Mauritius. During his tenure the fund also invested in several projects where Mr. Bastos had a conflict of interest, including a deep sea port in the province of Cabinda and a Hotel in Luanda.\n\nThe Banco Espirito Santo Angola was created in 2002 by the Banco Espirito Santo, a Portuguese family owned bank. \nIn 2009 a company controlled by Manuel Vicente, General Manuel Dias Júnior (also the minister of State and President’s Security Chief), and General Leopoldino Fragoso do Nascimento acquired 24% ownership of the bank for $375 million. The transaction was financed by a loan of 400 million from the Angola Development Bank (BAI), the purpose of the additional 25 million was not stated and its eventual use is unclear. Manuel Vicente was Vice President of the board of directors of the BAI at the time, presenting a conflict of interest. Isabella dos Santos has also owned 19% of the bank since 2006.\nAudits of BESA by KPMG and Deloitte show that between 2009 and 2013 the BESA lost over $5 billion to unsecured loans made to asset-less internationally registered companies. These revelations prompted corruption investigations in Portugal against the Santo family, BES employees, and members of the Angolan Elite. BESA collapsed in 2014.\n\nThe Angolan Development Bank (Banco de Desenvolvimento de Angola) was created in 2006. In 2016, the BDA revealed that it had $400 million of losses due to unsecured loans that had not been repaid, and that approximately 70% of the loans ever issued by the BDA were without collateral. Paixão Franco Júnior was the bank's chairman between 2006 and 2013, by 2010 he had inexplicably become one of Angola's 50 wealthiest people. Reports emerged in 2013 linking him to corruption.\n\nThere has been a high level of infrastructure corruption in Angola since the early 2000s. High oil prices provided the funds and access to credit necessary to rebuild the country's infrastructure after the civil war, and a major construction boom insued. Many major infrastructure contracts were issued to firms owned by regime insiders without competitive bidding processes. The magnitude of corruption was such that, according to the Portuguese newspaper \"Expresso\", President Dos Santos awarded over $14 billion of public contracts to his children’s companies between 2006 and 2016.\n\nThe general process of appropriation from infrastructure projects involves pricing the project above what it should cost, then sub-contracting the construction to a foreign firm for less money. Additionally, the Angolan government and Angolan Banks often ultimately assume most of the financial costs, while allowing the patronage company to retain a disproportionate share of ownership.\n\nThe construction of the deep water port of Cabinda illustrates the details of the above strategy. In 2011, Caioporto S.A., a newly created company owned by Mr. Bastos de Morais, was granted the contract through an un-tendered process. The initially stated plan was for the $500 million project to be entirely funded by private sector loans to Caioporto, however: such investment was not forthcoming. In an effort to attract investment, the President amended the contract such that the Angolan government would guarantee all loans made to Caioporto, and also guarantee the company a minimum profit - effectively assuming all the risk while allowing Caioporto to retain full ownership of the port. Four years later the project had still not received any private investment, so President dos Santos changed the deal again. The cost increased to $890 million: the government would use a loan from China to cover 85% of the cost and the Angolan Sovereign Wealth Fund (FSDEA) would pay the remaining 15% in exchange for 50% ownership of the port. Construction was to be done by the China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC). The result is effectively that Mr. Bastos de Morais acquired 50% ownership of the port without contributing any of the necessary investment of doing any of the work. Additionally, Jose Filomeno dos Santos collected consulting fees from the China Road and Bridge Corporation for helping them secure the deal.\n\nOther notable cases of corruption related to the ownership and construction of infrastructure include: the 2015 Caculo Cabaça Hydroelectric Project; the 2013 Luachimo Dam renovation; the IMOB business tower in Luanda; and the Lobito refinery.\n\nThe State and MLPA insiders have a near monopoly on Angola's media: it is used for propaganda and competitors are repressed. Although a Press law passed in 2006 ended the government's monopoly on television, it still owns the principal TV station, as well as the nation's only daily newspaper and radio station, and the first purportedly private TV station, established in 2008, is owned by a company with close ties to the president. Corruption is present in the governments formation and use of law against critical journalists and opposition media. Angola's State security and government secrecy laws create the threat of imprisonment for journalists and have been used to prosecute investigative journalists.\n\nIn April 1999 Gustavo Costa, a journalist for \"Expresso\", wrote an article entitled \"Corruption Makes Victims\", accusing José Leitāo, the chief presidential advisor, of embezzling government revenue. Police arrested Costa and charged him with \"difamação\" and \"injúria\". The Angolan Supreme Court found him guilty, sentencing him to eight-months imprisonment, suspended for two years, and fined him $2,000.\n\nRafael Marques de Morias, a journalist and human rights activist, wrote \"The Lipstick of the Dictatorship\", an article criticizing corruption in the Angolan government and President dos Santos, on July 3, 1999. The National Criminal Investigation Division (NCID) questioned him on October 13 for several hours before releasing him. Later that day Morais gave an interview with and repeated his criticism of the dos Santos government. Twenty armed members of the Rapid Intervention Police arrested him along with Aguiar dos Santos, the publisher of \"Agora\", and Antonio José Freitas, \"Agora\" staff reporter, on charges of defamation on October 16, 1999. Marques said dos Santos bore responsibility for the \"destruction of the country... for the promotion of incompetence, embezzlement and corruption as political and social values.\"\n\nIn 2015, Rafael Marques de Morais received a 6-month suspended sentence for slander and defamation for publishing a report about human rights abuses in Angolan diamond mines. The accusation was that two senior Army Generals that held mining concession had been using the police and private security forces to violently displace competing diamond miners. \nRafael Marques de Morais stood trial again in April 2016 for \"insulting a public authority\" under Angola's State Security Law. He had published a report that accused the attorney general, General João Maria de Sousa, of changing the designation of a 3-acre beachfront property to \"rural land\" so that he could buy it from the state for $3500 and then re-designate it and build a condominium development. There was also a second charge for \"committing an outrage against a body of sovereignty\" because the report included an accusation that president dos Santos protects corrupt actors. Mariano Brás, the director of the weekly newspaper O Crime was also charged with the same crimes for publishing the report \n\nDespite the fact that President dos Santos began to publicly advocate a “zero tolerance” approach to corruption in 2009, domestic enforcement of existing law is minimal and the investigative capacity of control agencies is weak. Domestic anti-corruption policy in Angola remained a facade throughout dos Santos' presidency because he was the main source of government policy as well as the operator and primary beneficiary of corruption in Angola.\n\nThere are some prospects for future reform, however. João Lourenço became leader of the MLPA and was elected President on August 23, 2017. He has pledged to combat corruption and improve governance; however, the pervasive culture of corruption and the entrenched interests in the legislature, bureaucracy, Judiciary, military, and business community create a significant barrier. Although it is not unprecedented for an otherwise highly corrupt regime to pursue corruption reform in specific sectors of the economy if it is in the interest of the regime (such as in the Philippines and Indonesia) . The continuation of low oil prices and international pressure could prompt reform in core areas like banking oversight, tax collection, or infrastructure contracts. Doing so would require the creation of anti-corruption agencies that are sufficiently funded and empowered to investigate and persecute corruption in an efficient and independent way.\n\nIf the political will were to become present, Angola would require improvement to its transparency and oversight mechanisms such that the existing institutions that are meant to combat corruption have the capabilities to perform that function. Doing so would require a dramatic increase in funding and re-design of their powers. Given Angola's starting position, doing so would amount to a comprehensive reform of the civil service.\n\nJoão Lourenço was elected President on August 23, 2017. He has been a member of the MLPA since he joined as a teenager during the colonial war. He followed a typical MLPA career trajectory: he received military training and education in the Soviet Union; then was a member of the military through the 1980s; then he served as secretary-general from 1998-2002; a member of the national assembly from 2002-2014 until he became the minister of defense. Despite his long history with the MLPA, his corruption record is surprisingly clean and his wealth and business interests - although significant - are not nearly on the same level as those closest to president dos Santos.\n\nPresident Lourenço has presented himself as a reformer. Since his election he has stated that he intends to: improve government probity and increase transparency and accountability; diversify the economy; nurture and autonomous civil society; and reduce censorship of the media. \nJoão Lourenço's opposition to the status quo is uncertain, however; there is a rumor that a deal between Lourenço and dos Santos prior to the transfer of power whereby Lourenço agreed to protect the legal, economic and political interests of dos Santos' inner circle. In contradiction to this reported agreement, however: President Lourenço did remove the inner circle of corrupt actors (Manuel Vicente, General Helder ‘Kopelipa’ Vieira Dias, Isabel dos Santos, Eduardo dos Santos, Jean Claude Bastos de Morais) from their appointed positions; specifically targeted their economic interests; and has initiated legal proceedings. \nHe has also targeted their economic interests and sources of appropriation. In his inaugural address, he specifically mentioned the monopolies on Angolan cement and telecommunications, both controlled by Isabel dos Santos. He then shut down GRECIMA, the propaganda bureau of the President's office, in late 2017. GRECIMA had been accused of diverting hundreds of millions of dollars to a company, Semba Comunicação, owned by Isabel and Jose Filomeno dos Santos over the past decade. In 2011, this amount totaled 110 million.\n\nIn March 2018, the Attorney General's office indicted Jose Filomeno dos Santos and Valter Filipe for their role in an attempt to send $500 million from the National Bank of Angola (BNA) to an account in London. British authorities detected the fraud and froze the funds. These actions suggest that President Lourenço has the political will to take real action against corruption, but the case is ongoing (at the time of writing) so it is too early to tell if it will yield results or if the new president will continue persecuting corruption beyond dos Santos' inner circle.\n\nIn November 2017, President Lourenço's invited IMF staff to Angola to make preparations for a formal Article IV consultation mission that was completed in March 2018. The preliminary IMF report on the mission portrays the Lourenço government favorably and implies that they may be inclined to pursue reform at SOEs, the banks and governance (and that they might have to if oil prices remain low). The full report on the consultation mission will be released in May 2018.\n\nPresident Lourenço's decisions have been generally praised, even by those traditionally critical of the government. He has maintained the support of the MLPA and the military so far; but it remains unclear whether or not he is a true reformer, or if he is merely seeking to remove the network of his predecessor, consolidate his own power, and garner some much needed domestic and international legitimacy by presenting himself as acting against corruption. Even if President Lourenço would like to be a reformer, it seems unlikely that the MLPA will allow significant change to the status quo. Although he has removed dos Santos' inner circle, the remaining party elite have entrenched interests throughout the economy and it is unlikely that they would accept major reform that affects their privileged position in Angola's political economy. Although it is possible that the entrance of a new president - in the context of an economic crisis and growing protests, international reform pressure, and assistance from foreign legal entities - could create some space for progress. The need for credibility and efficient government finances could lead to a compromise between the entrenched interests and the new regime, whereby control agencies are empowered to deal with lower level corruption or with specific components of the economy who's integrity is deemed essential to the long run viability of the regime.\n\nThere is also some evidence against the probity of President Lourenço. In February 2018 he was accused of being involved in a transaction where he had a conflict of interest and gained person benefit. 5 passenger aircraft were sold by the Angolan state to three companies connected to the president: SJL-Aeronautica, owned by his brother; Sociedade Agropecuária de Angola, owned by General Higino Carneiro, the Deputy Chairman of the parliament; and, Air Jet, owned by a former Air Force officer, António de Jesus Janota Bete. The planes were sold for an undisclosed sum and without any bidding process.\n\nAngola does have a reasonably comprehensive set of anti-corruption laws, however, they are rarely enforced. The laws below are the main anti-corruption laws in Angola, their combination technically prohibits most corrupt actions, however; violations are dealt with through the normal judiciary and there are no dedicated agencies that have the capacity to investigate and persecute violations.\n\nThe Public Contracting Law governs the government contracting process and contains provision that affect both public and private actors. Its provisions effectively prohibit corrupt actions; however, it also lacks enforcement mechanisms beyond a clause stipulating that any contract made in violation of the law is automatically nullified.\n\nThe public probity law governs the behavior of public actors in Angola. It provides decent coverage for prohibiting corrupt actions, but there are some notable omissions and it does not include mechanisms for investigation and enforcement. It allows individuals to report violations to the courts, who then decide whether or not to pursue an investigation. The process is not transparent and leaves complainants with no further recourse if the case is ignored by the underfunded and politically influenced judiciary. The law also contains an anti-libel clause that has been used to sue journalists for making corruption allegations. In the context of low trust in institutions and a history of violence these factors make it unlikely that complaints will be made and progress to trial.\n\nThe Public Probity Law contains some potential loopholes. The law allows for exceptions when public officials can accept gifts (i) goods that can be transferred to the State or public entities; (ii) gifts that conform to normal protocols and are not detrimental to the good image of the State; (iii) gifts on festive occasions, such as birthdays, weddings and New Year. The public probity law prohibits a substantial list of items that cannot be given to a public official, but there are some notable exceptions such as jewelry and shares of stocks.\n\nThe public probity law also states that all government officials must declare their wealth every two years, but the information is not made public and can only be access by a court order if it is relevant to an investigation. There is no real audit mechanism so the reporting requirements can easily satisfied dishonestly \n\nAngola's anti-money laundering legislation includes: the Law on Combating Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism; and, the Law on Designation and Enforcement of International Legal Acts. The law makes the expected prohibitions, including reporting requirements for financial institutions.\n\nThere is also the 2015 Law on the Criminalization of Infractions related to Money Laundering contains many more provisions than its name implies. It contains prohibits against a variety of criminal activities and was produced so that Angola could conform to the international treaties that the country has ratified. The law has been criticized for having relatively light penalties that can be further reduced if the money is returned.\n\nAn effective control agency has: autonomy from political interference; full jurisdiction (no immunity for positions in government); the power and capacity to investigate and persecute cases of corruption; a court system that is also autonomous and equipped to handle cases in an efficient manner (ideally as a court separate from the main court system that is specialized for corruption); competent staff and decentralized leadership; procedures to have its performance evaluated.\n\nWhile Angola does have some anti-corruption agencies, they are generally lacking in the above characteristics. Although, the core legislative and institutional structures of typical control agencies do at least exist. Angola's anti-corruption institutions are:\n\n\nA critical media, active civil society and the presence of protests can contribute to the likelihood that reform will occur. It can gradually spread awareness, change culture, and keep reform on the government's agenda. In the case of Angola, these factors have been consistently been repressed such that their size and effect have been limited. The existence of protests and need for repression could have some consequences for regime stability if excessive repression and further deterioration of the economic situation prompts enduring large scale protest that disrupt the status quo (a similar logic to the Arab Spring).\nA Protest movement emerged in 2011 following a call for demonstrations by Angolan musician and anti-corruption advocate Luaty Beirao; however, only a few small protests occurred that year and they were quickly shut down by police. The scale of protest increased somewhat in the months before the election, but un-uniformed men would arrive to assault the protesters. The scale of protests has been limited such that no unified organization has emerged from the protest movement, although they refer to themselves as the Revoluciona´ria (Revolutionary Youth) and have some social media presence. Members also commonly engage with opposition groups as individuals.\n\nProtests continued to occur sporadically through 2017 in response to political and economic grievances, and against instances of repression. Notably in response to the arrest and hunger strike of Luaty Beirao in 2015, a 2013 leak regarding the extrajudicial killing of two former presidential guards in 2012, and the subsequent revelations of extrajudicial killings under the dos Santos regime through 2016. The scale of the protests has increased, although not to a mass scale; it remains to be seen whether the protest movement will influence the policies of President Lourenco, or if they will be met with continued repression.\n\nAngola has faced mounting pressure to conform to international governance norms. Treaties have played an important role in mandating the creation of laws and institutions in Angola. Among others, Angola has signed and ratified the African Union Convention on Preventing and Combating Corruption, in 2004 the African Peer Review Mechanism and the UN Convention against Transnational Organised Crime. In 2010, Angola ratified the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) - the most comprehensive international corruption treaty. In order to comply with these treaties, Angola has implemented reasonably comprehensive anti-corruption legislation. Domestic enforcement has been minimal so far, but international treaties continue to mandate further reform that will at least provide Angola with a framework of anti-corruption legislation.\n\nInternational institutions and foreign legal institutions can also mitigate Angolan corruption to some extent. Their policies focus on ensuring that their loans are not appropriated, and ensuring that multi-national corporations are not involved in bribery. Legal action is limited to cases where individuals, companies, and the money involved in corruption leaves Angola and violates foreign law, then the actors involved could face legal consequences in foreign courts. There have been cases where the regulatory agencies of foreign countries have detected the money laundering of Angolan actors and initiated their own legal proceedings, such as the BESA case and the related bribery and judicial interference case against Manuel Vicente. Further suspicion of Angolan transactions could increase scrutiny and create a barrier to their ability to use their illicit profits, prompt asset recovery attempts or potentially even the sanction of specific individuals. Aggressive international intervention has not occurred thus far, as major nations have thus far remained strategically indifferent to support their interests in stability, continued access to oil and the interests of their MNCs in Angola.\n\nIntervention by international actors is generally requires that the country in question invite the intervention. For specific cases, assistance with regard to the costs involved, investigation, human capital, asset recovery, extradition, and collaboration with foreign legal systems is theoretically available. Similarly for institution building, the knowledge, logistics, and training required to establish effective control agencies could be provided, but again this is dependent on Angola's political will.\n\nIn 2017, Manuel Vicente incurred numerous charges related to his bribery of a Portuguese prosecutor during the BESA investigation in 2013. The investigation uncovered that BESA (partially owned by Mr. Vicente) had lost $6.8 billion in a pattern of unsecured loans, however; inexplicably, the prosecutor Orlando Figueira, decided that there was not enough evidence to proceed. Portugal's Judicial Police investigated this suspicious decision: they found that Figueira had received 400 000 Euros from a company linked to Sonangol, and had also breached court confidentiality by providing Vicente's lawyer with all of the relevant documents during the investigation. Mr Vicente remains under investigation.\n\nThe March 2018, indictment of Jose Filomeno dos Santos and Valter Filipe was made possible by British oversight agencies that recognized the transaction as suspicious, froze the funds and referred the information to Angolan authorities.\n\nAs of 2013 there are three Angolan money laundering cases being investigated in Portugal. Two of which involve funds of suspicious origin that seem to have passed through multiple jurisdictions and from businesses to 3rd party individuals before being used to buy real estate in Portugal. In these cases the investigations have stalled because Angola did not provide financial information. The third case was incidentally discovered during a tax crime investigation of a Swiss company. The company was also the recipient of funds from an offshore account controlled by a Portuguese company that exports food products to an Angolan supermarket chain owned by a high ranking Angolan military officer. Funds flow from the Angolan company to the offshore account, then most of the funds proceeded to the Portuguese company, but a portion was diverted to the Swiss company and then distributed to accounts controlled by other Angolan officials. $2 million was distributed in this way between 2006 and 2010.\n\nIn 2017, the United States also launched an investigation regarding collaboration between Angolan actors and American corporations to launder money and conceal bribe payments.\n\nThe idea that international law can constrict the financial flows of corrupt actors and provide opportunities for them to be charge in foreign courts is dependent on the participation of the countries involved. In practice these laws are avoidable: Angolan actors have been known to use tax havens where financial oversight is weak and such laws are not robustly enforced. International financial oversight is dependent upon collaboration between domestic financial oversight agencies: if the trail of money passes through an uncooperative jurisdiction (such as Angola), it can become impossible to get the information necessary to satisfy the evidence requirements of a court case.\n\nThe preferred investment destination of wealthy Angolans is Portugal, surprisingly there have not been any bribery or money laundering convictions related to these transactions. A recent OECD report has accused Portugal of neglecting to investigate money laundered and bribery according to its treaty obligations. Only 15 foreign bribery cases have occurred in Portugal since 2001, 8 were closed before trial and the other 7 remain in the investigative phase. The report raises the possibility that Portugal's economic interests in Angola influence the country to neglect the issue and that Angola has influenced the Portuguese judicial system to ignore specific cases of corruption.\n\nChina has become Angola's largest trading partner. The relationship began with growing purchases of oil (63% of Angolan output in 2016) and expanded with Chinese loans and direct investment in oil exploration and infrastructure construction (totaling over $20 billion since 2003). China has completed projects in every sector of the Angolan economy and their projects tend to be completed on time and on budget, and at a much lower cost that Angolan firms would have been able to provide. This has been criticized as providing insulation from international pressure for reform, as the Chinese are known for being willing to ignore the corruption and human rights issues of its international partners. While the details of the relationship between Angola and China are not transparent, there is no evidence to suggest that China behaves any differently than Western countries or MNCs have in the past.\n\nIt is possible that Angola's relationship with China could have a negative effect on the appropriation of state resources and a positive effect on Angola's development. Since 2014, China has become more cautious with their investments due to corruption complaints from Chinese construction firms and revalations that SINOPEC was losing money on its Angolan operations, and the decline in the price of oil and the consequent growth of Angola's national debt. China's method of investment makes it difficult for Angolan actors to mismanage or appropriate capital: lines of credit are secured by oil; and the investments are used for specific projects that are operated mostly by Chinese firms and workers, so there are fewer points of contact with rent seeking Angolan firms or bureaucrats. \nChina could be a barrier to corruption if it is diligent with its investment and continues to buy the majority of Angolan output and provide the majority of foreign investment to Angola; although if this not the case, then an indifferent dominant trading partner could provide insulation from the international pressure and financial constraints that might otherwise prompt reform.\n"}
{"id": "211372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211372", "title": "Council on Foreign Relations", "text": "Council on Foreign Relations\n\nThe Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), founded in 1921, is a United States nonprofit think tank specializing in U.S. foreign policy and international affairs. It is headquartered in New York City, with an additional office in Washington, D.C. Its membership, which numbers 4,900, has included senior politicians, more than a dozen secretaries of state, CIA directors, bankers, lawyers, professors, and senior media figures.\n\nThe CFR meetings convene government officials, global business leaders and prominent members of the intelligence and foreign-policy community to discuss international issues. CFR publishes the bi-monthly journal \"Foreign Affairs\", and runs the David Rockefeller Studies Program, which influences foreign policy by making recommendations to the presidential administration and diplomatic community, testifying before Congress, interacting with the media, and publishing on foreign policy issues.\n\nTowards the end of World War I, a working fellowship of about 150 scholars called \"The Inquiry\" was tasked to brief President Woodrow Wilson about options for the postwar world when Germany was defeated. This academic band, including Wilson's closest adviser and long-time friend \"Colonel\" Edward M. House, as well as Walter Lippmann, met to assemble the strategy for the postwar world. The team produced more than 2,000 documents detailing and analyzing the political, economic, and social facts globally that would be helpful for Wilson in the peace talks. Their reports formed the basis for the Fourteen Points, which outlined Wilson's strategy for peace after war's end. These scholars then traveled to the Paris Peace Conference, 1919 and participated in the discussions there.\n\nAs a result of discussions at the Peace Conference, a small group of British and American diplomats and scholars met on May 30, 1919 at the Hotel Majestic in Paris and decided to create an Anglo-American organization called \"The Institute of International Affairs\", which would have offices in London and New York. Due to the isolationist views prevalent in American society at the time, the scholars had difficulty gaining traction with their plan, and turned their focus instead to a set of discreet meetings that had been taking place since June 1918 in New York City, under the name Council on Foreign Relations. The meetings were headed by the corporate lawyer Elihu Root, who had served as Secretary of State under President Theodore Roosevelt, and attended by 108 “high-ranking officers of banking, manufacturing, trading and finance companies, together with many lawyers.” The members were proponents of Wilson's internationalism, but were particularly concerned about \"the effect that the war and the treaty of peace might have on postwar business.\" The scholars from the inquiry saw an opportunity here to create an organization that brought diplomats, high-level government officials and academics together with lawyers, bankers, and industrialists to engineer government policy. On July 29, 1921 they filed a certification of incorporation, officially forming the Council on Foreign Relations. In 1922 Edwin F. Gay, former dean of the Harvard Business School and director of the Shipping Board during the war, spearheaded the Council's efforts to begin publication of a magazine that would be the \"authoritative\" source on foreign policy. He gathered $125,000 from the wealthy members on the council, and via sending letters soliciting funds to \"the thousand richest Americans\". Using these funds, the first issue of \"Foreign Affairs\" was published in September 1922, and within a few years had a gained a reputation as the \"most authoritative American review dealing with international relations\".\n\nIn the late 1930s, the Ford Foundation and Rockefeller Foundation began contributing large amounts of money to the Council. In 1938 they created various Committees on Foreign Relations, which later became governed by the American Committees on Foreign Relations in Washington, D.C., throughout the country, funded by a grant from the Carnegie Corporation. Influential men were to be chosen in a number of cities, and would then be brought together for discussions in their own communities as well as participating in an annual conference in New York. These local committees served to influence local leaders and shape public opinion to build support for the Council's policies, while also acting as \"useful listening posts\" through which the Council and U.S. government could \"sense the mood of the country\".\n\nBeginning in 1939 and lasting for five years, the Council achieved much greater prominence within the government and the State Department, when it established the strictly confidential \"War and Peace Studies\", funded entirely by the Rockefeller Foundation. The secrecy surrounding this group was such, that the Council members who were not involved in its deliberations were completely unaware of the study group's existence. It was divided into four functional topic groups: economic and financial, security and armaments, territorial, and political. The security and armaments group was headed by Allen Welsh Dulles who later became a pivotal figure in the CIA's predecessor, the Office of Strategic Services. The CFR ultimately produced 682 memoranda for the State Department, marked classified and circulated among the appropriate government departments.\n\nA critical study found that of 502 government officials surveyed from 1945 to 1972, more than half were members of the Council. During the Eisenhower administration 40% of the top U.S. foreign policy officials were CFR members (Eisenhower himself had been a council member); under Truman, 42% of the top posts were filled by council members. During the Kennedy administration, this number rose to 51%, and peaked at 57% under the Johnson administration.\n\nIn an anonymous piece called \"The Sources of Soviet Conduct\" that appeared in \"Foreign Affairs\" in 1947, CFR study group member George Kennan coined the term \"containment\". The essay would prove to be highly influential in US foreign policy for seven upcoming presidential administrations. Forty years later, Kennan explained that he had never suspected the Russians of any desire to launch an attack on America; he thought that it was obvious enough and he did not need to explain it in his essay. William Bundy credited the CFR's study groups with helping to lay the framework of thinking that led to the Marshall Plan and NATO. Due to new interest in the group, membership grew towards 1,000.\nDwight D. Eisenhower chaired a CFR study group while he served as President of Columbia University. One member later said, \"whatever General Eisenhower knows about economics, he has learned at the study group meetings.\" The CFR study group devised an expanded study group called \"Americans for Eisenhower\" to increase his chances for the presidency. Eisenhower would later draw many Cabinet members from CFR ranks and become a CFR member himself. His primary CFR appointment was Secretary of State John Foster Dulles. Dulles gave a public address at the Harold Pratt House in New York City in which he announced a new direction for Eisenhower's foreign policy: \"There is no local defense which alone will contain the mighty land power of the communist world. Local defenses must be reinforced by the further deterrent of massive retaliatory power.\" After this speech, the council convened a session on \"Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy\" and chose Henry Kissinger to head it. Kissinger spent the following academic year working on the project at Council headquarters. The book of the same name that he published from his research in 1957 gave him national recognition, topping the national bestseller lists.\n\nOn November 24, 1953, a study group heard a report from political scientist William Henderson regarding the ongoing conflict between France and Vietnamese Communist leader Ho Chi Minh's Viet Minh forces, a struggle that would later become known as the First Indochina War. Henderson argued that Ho's cause was primarily nationalist in nature and that Marxism had \"little to do with the current revolution.\" Further, the report said, the United States could work with Ho to guide his movement away from Communism. State Department officials, however, expressed skepticism about direct American intervention in Vietnam and the idea was tabled. Over the next twenty years, the United States would find itself allied with anti-Communist South Vietnam and against Ho and his supporters in the Vietnam War.\n\nThe Council served as a \"breeding ground\" for important American policies such as mutual deterrence, arms control, and nuclear non-proliferation.\n\nIn 1962 the group began a program of bringing select Air Force officers to the Harold Pratt House to study alongside its scholars. The Army, Navy and Marine Corps requested they start similar programs for their own officers.\n\nA four-year-long study of relations between America and China was conducted by the Council between 1964 and 1968. One study published in 1966 concluded that American citizens were more open to talks with China than their elected leaders. Henry Kissinger had continued to publish in \"Foreign Affairs\" and was appointed by President Nixon to serve as National Security Adviser in 1969. In 1971, he embarked on a secret trip to Beijing to broach talks with Chinese leaders. Richard Nixon went to China in 1972, and diplomatic relations were completely normalized by President Carter's Secretary of State, another Council member, Cyrus Vance.\n\nVietnam created a rift within the organization. When Hamilton Fish Armstrong announced in 1970 that he would be leaving the helm of \"Foreign Affairs\" after 45 years, new chairman David Rockefeller approached a family friend, William Bundy, to take over the position. Anti-war advocates within the Council rose in protest against this appointment, claiming that Bundy's hawkish record in the State and Defense Departments and the CIA precluded him from taking over an independent journal. Some considered Bundy a war criminal for his prior actions.\n\nIn November 1979, while chairman of the CFR, David Rockefeller became embroiled in an international incident when he and Henry Kissinger, along with John J. McCloy and Rockefeller aides, persuaded President Jimmy Carter through the State Department to admit the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, into the US for hospital treatment for lymphoma. This action directly precipitated what is known as the Iran hostage crisis and placed Rockefeller under intense media scrutiny (particularly from \"The New York Times\") for the first time in his public life. In his book \"White House Diary\", Carter wrote of the affair, \"April 9 [1979] David Rockefeller came in, apparently to induce me to let the shah come to the United States. Rockefeller, Kissinger, and Brzezinski seem to be adopting this as a joint project...\"\n\nAs stated on its website, the CFR's mission is to be \"a resource for its members, government officials, business executives, journalists, educators and students, civic and religious leaders, and other interested citizens in order to help them better understand the world and the foreign policy choices facing the United States and other countries\".\n\nIt convenes meetings at which government officials, global leaders and prominent members of the foreign policy community discuss major international issues. Its think tank, the David Rockefeller Studies Program, is composed of about fifty adjunct and full-time scholars, as well as ten in-residence recipients of year-long fellowships, who cover the major regions and significant issues shaping today's international agenda. These scholars contribute to the foreign policy debate by making recommendations to the presidential administration, testifying before Congress, serving as a resource to the diplomatic community, interacting with the media, authoring books, reports, articles, and op-eds on foreign policy issues.\n\nThere are two types of membership: life, and term membership, which lasts for 5 years and is available to those between 30 and 36. Only U.S. citizens (native born or naturalized) and permanent residents who have applied for U.S. citizenship are eligible. A candidate for life membership must be nominated in writing by one Council member and seconded by a minimum of three others. Visiting fellows are prohibited from applying for membership until they have completed their fellowship tenure. Annual dues for nonterm nonbusiness members range from $270 to $850, and for nonterm business members from $1,060 to $3,790.\n\nCorporate membership (250 in total) is divided into \"Associates\", \"Affiliates\" ($30,000+), \"President's Circle\" ($60,000+) and \"Founders\" ($100,000+). All corporate executive members have opportunities to hear distinguished speakers, such as overseas presidents and prime ministers, chairmen and CEOs of multinational corporations, and U.S. officials and Congressmen. President and premium members are also entitled to other benefits, including attendance at small, private dinners or receptions with senior American officials and world leaders.\n\nMembers of the CFR's board of directors include:\n\nFormer members of the CFR's board of directors include:\n\nThe CFR started a program in 2008 to last for 5 years and funded by a grant from the Robina Foundation called \"International Institutions and Global Governance\" which aims to identify the institutional requirements for effective multilateral cooperation in the 21st century.\n\nThe CFR's Maurice C. Greenberg Center for Geoeconomic Studies, directed by scholar and author Sebastian Mallaby, works to promote a better understanding among policymakers, academic specialists, and the interested public of how economic and political forces interact to influence world affairs.\n\nThe CFR's Center for Preventive Action (CPA) seeks to help prevent, defuse, or resolve deadly conflicts around the world and to expand the body of knowledge on conflict prevention. It does so by creating a forum in which representatives of governments, international organizations, nongovernmental organizations, corporations, and civil society can gather to develop operational and timely strategies for promoting peace in specific conflict situations.\n\nThe council publishes \"Foreign Affairs\", \"the preeminent journal of international affairs and U.S. foreign policy\". It also establishes independent task forces, which bring together experts with diverse backgrounds and expertise to work together to produce reports offering both findings and policy prescriptions on important foreign policy topics. The CFR has sponsored more than fifty reports, including the Independent Task Force on the Future of North America that published report No, 53, titled \"Building a North American Community\", in May 2005.\n\nIn 2005, Inter Press Service News Agency described CFR as \"the nation's most influential foreign-policy think tank\".\n\nThe council received a three star rating (out of a possible four stars) from Charity Navigator in fiscal year 2016, as measured by their analysis of the council's financial data and \"accountability and transparency\".\n\nThe council has been the subject of debates over sovereignty as well as the subject of numerous conspiracy theories. This is primarily due to the number of high-ranking government officials (along with world business leaders and prominent media figures) in its membership and the large number of aspects of American foreign policy that its members have been involved with. Echoing the most common accusation, the paleoconservative John Birch Society claims that the CFR is \"Guilty of conspiring with others to build a one world government...\" Other figures, including conservative author and faith-based political theorist W. Cleon Skousen, have opposed the CFR vociferously.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12822367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12822367", "title": "Dominant portion", "text": "Dominant portion\n\nThe term dominant portion is used in measurement of room spaces for valuation or appraisal purposes.\n\nThe dominant portion is defined as:\n\nThe second definition particularly applies to measurement of office spaces based on the Building Owners and Managers Association measurement.\n"}
{"id": "3718213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3718213", "title": "Fatah Special Operations Group", "text": "Fatah Special Operations Group\n\nThe Fatah Special Operations Group (Fatah-SOG), Martyrs of Tel al-Za'tar, Amn Araissi or Hawari Group was a radical Palestinian faction associated to Fatah, the main group of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO).\n\nThe group was led by Fatah radical Col. Abdullah Abd al-Hamid Labib, known as Colonel Hawari. Its members were drawn from Fatah and more radical Palestinian groups, such as members of the 15 May Organization after it disbanded in the mid-1980s.\n\nFatah-SOG carried out bombings and other attacks against international targets, especially Israeli and Syrian (in 1976 and 1984–90, Syria and allied Lebanese militias attacked the PLO and Palestinian refugee communities in Lebanon); but it is also believed to have attacked European and American interests. It is suspected of bombing TWA Flight 840 in 1986. The exact relations between Fatah-SOG and the PLO leadership of Yassir Arafat remain unclear.\n"}
{"id": "1523470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1523470", "title": "Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002", "text": "Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002\n\nThe Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA, , \"et seq.\") is a United States federal law enacted in 2002 as Title III of the E-Government Act of 2002 (, ). The act recognized the importance of information security to the economic and national security interests of the United States. The act requires each federal agency to develop, document, and implement an agency-wide program to provide information security for the information and information systems that support the operations and assets of the agency, including those provided or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source.\n\nFISMA has brought attention within the federal government to cybersecurity and explicitly emphasized a \"risk-based policy for cost-effective security.\" FISMA requires agency program officials, chief information officers, and inspectors general (IGs) to conduct annual reviews of the agency's information security program and report the results to Office of Management and Budget (OMB). OMB uses this data to assist in its oversight responsibilities and to prepare this annual report to Congress on agency compliance with the act. In FY 2008, federal agencies spent $6.2 billion securing the government's total information technology investment of approximately $68 billion or about 9.2 percent of the total information technology portfolio.\n\nThis law has been replaced by the Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (), sometimes known as FISMA2014 or FISMA Reform. FISMA2014 struck subchapters II and III of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, amending it with the text of the new law in a new subchapter II (). \n\nFISMA assigns specific responsibilities to federal agencies, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in order to strengthen information security systems. In particular, FISMA requires the head of each agency to implement policies and procedures to cost-effectively reduce information technology security risks to an acceptable level.\n\nAccording to FISMA, the term \"information security\" means protecting information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide integrity, confidentiality and availability.\n\nIn accordance with FISMA, NIST is responsible for developing standards, guidelines, and associated methods and techniques for providing adequate information security for all agency operations and assets, excluding national security systems. NIST works closely with federal agencies to improve their understanding and implementation of FISMA to protect their information and information systems and publishes standards and guidelines which provide the foundation for strong information security programs at agencies. NIST performs its statutory responsibilities through the Computer Security Division of the Information Technology Laboratory. NIST develops standards, metrics, tests, and validation programs to promote, measure, and validate the security in information systems and services. NIST hosts the following:\n\nFISMA defines a framework for managing information security that must be followed for all information systems used or operated by a U.S. federal government agency in the executive or legislative branches, or by a contractor or other organization on behalf of a federal agency in those branches. This framework is further defined by the standards and guidelines developed by NIST.\n\nFISMA requires that agencies have an information systems inventory in place.\nAccording to FISMA, the head of each agency shall develop and maintain an inventory of major information systems (including major national security systems) operated by or under the control of such agency\nThe identification of information systems in an inventory under this subsection shall include an identification of the interfaces between each such system and all other systems or networks, including those not operated by or under the control of the agency. The first step is to determine what constitutes the \"information system\" in question. There is not a direct mapping of computers to an information system; rather, an information system may be a collection of individual computers put to a common purpose and managed by the same system owner. NIST SP 800-18, Revision 1, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems provides guidance on determining system boundaries.\n\nAll information and information systems should be categorized based on the objectives of providing appropriate levels of information security according to a range of risk levels\nThe first mandatory security standard required by the FISMA legislation, FIPS 199 \"Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems\" provides the definitions of security categories. The guidelines are provided by NIST SP 800-60 \"Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories.\"\n\nThe overall FIPS 199 system categorization is the \"high water mark\" for the impact rating of any of the criteria for information types resident in a system. For example, if one information type in the system has a rating of \"Low\" for \"confidentiality,\" \"integrity,\" and \"availability,\" and another type has a rating of \"Low\" for \"confidentiality\" and \"availability\" but a rating of \"Moderate\" for \"integrity,\" then the impact level for \"integrity\" also becomes \"Moderate\".\n\nFederal information systems must meet the minimum security requirements. These requirements are defined in the second mandatory security standard required by the FISMA legislation, FIPS 200 \"Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems\".\nOrganizations must meet the minimum security requirements by selecting the appropriate security controls and assurance requirements as described in NIST Special Publication 800-53, \"Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems\". The process of selecting the appropriate security controls and assurance requirements for organizational information systems to achieve adequate security is a multifaceted, risk-based activity involving management and operational personnel within the organization.\nAgencies have flexibility in applying the baseline security controls in accordance with the tailoring guidance provided in Special Publication 800-53. This allows agencies to adjust the security controls to more closely fit their mission requirements and operational environments.\nThe controls selected or planned must be documented in the System Security Plan.\n\nThe combination of FIPS 200 and NIST Special Publication 800-53 requires a foundational level of security for all federal information and information systems. The agency's risk assessment validates the security control set and determines if any additional controls are needed to protect agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation. The resulting set of security controls establishes a level of \"security due diligence\" for the federal agency and its contractors.\nA risk assessment starts by identifying potential threats and vulnerabilities and mapping implemented controls to individual vulnerabilities. One then determines risk by calculating the likelihood and impact that any given vulnerability could be exploited, taking into account existing controls. The culmination of the risk assessment shows the calculated risk for all vulnerabilities and describes whether the risk should be accepted or mitigated. If mitigated by the implementation of a control, one needs to describe what additional Security Controls will be added to the system.\n\nNIST also initiated the Information Security Automation Program (ISAP) and Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP) that support and complement the approach for achieving consistent, cost-effective security control assessments.\n\nAgencies should develop policy on the system security planning process. NIST SP-800-18 introduces the concept of a System Security Plan. System security plans are living documents that require periodic review, modification, and plans of action and milestones for implementing security controls. Procedures should be in place outlining who reviews the plans, keeps the plan current, and follows up on planned security controls.\n\nThe System security plan is the major input to the security certification and accreditation process for the system. During the security certification and accreditation process, the system security plan is analyzed, updated, and accepted. The certification agent confirms that the security controls described in the system security plan are consistent with the FIPS 199 security category determined for the information system, and that the threat and vulnerability identification and initial risk determination are identified and documented in the system security plan, risk assessment, or equivalent document.\n\nOnce the system documentation and risk assessment has been completed, the system's controls must be reviewed and certified to be functioning appropriately. Based on the results of the review, the information system is accredited. The certification and accreditation process is defined in NIST SP 800-37 \"Guide for the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems\".\nSecurity accreditation is the official management decision given by a senior agency official to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to agency operations, agency assets, or individuals based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls. Required by OMB Circular A-130, Appendix III, security accreditation provides a form of quality control and challenges managers and technical staffs at all levels to implement the most effective security controls possible in an information system, given mission requirements, technical constraints, operational constraints, and cost/schedule constraints. By accrediting an information system, an agency official accepts responsibility for the security of the system and is fully accountable for any adverse impacts to the agency if a breach of security occurs. Thus, responsibility and accountability are core principles that characterize security accreditation. It is essential that agency officials have the most complete, accurate, and trustworthy information possible on the security status of their information systems in order to make timely, credible, risk-based decisions on whether to authorize operation of those systems.\n\nThe information and supporting evidence needed for security accreditation is developed during a detailed security review of an information system, typically referred to as security certification. Security certification is a comprehensive assessment of the management, operational, and technical security controls in an information system, made in support of security accreditation, to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the system. The results of a security certification are used to reassess the risks and update the system security plan, thus providing the factual basis for an authorizing official to render a security accreditation decision.\n\nAll accredited systems are required to monitor a selected set of security controls and the system documentation is updated to reflect changes and modifications to the system. Large changes to the security profile of the system should trigger an updated risk assessment, and controls that are significantly modified may need to be re-certified.\n\nContinuous monitoring activities include configuration management and control of information system components, security impact analyses of changes to the system, ongoing assessment of security controls, and status reporting. The organization establishes the selection criteria and subsequently selects a subset of the security controls employed within the information system for assessment. The organization also establishes the schedule for control monitoring to ensure adequate coverage is achieved.\n\nSecurity experts Bruce Brody, a former federal chief information security officer, and Alan Paller, director of research for the SANS Institute, have described FISMA as \"a well-intentioned but fundamentally flawed tool\", arguing that the compliance and reporting methodology mandated by FISMA measures security planning rather than measuring information security. Past GAO chief technology officer Keith Rhodes said that FISMA can and has helped government system security but that implementation is everything, and if security people view FISMA as just a checklist, nothing is going to get done.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27763760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27763760", "title": "Friends of Israel Initiative", "text": "Friends of Israel Initiative\n\nThe Friends of Israel Initiative (FOII) is an international effort, to \"seek to counter the attempts to delegitimize the State of Israel and its right to live in peace within safe and defensible borders\", initiated and led by former Prime Minister of Spain and People's Party leader José María Aznar in 2010.\n\nIt was co-founded by twelve other international figures. They include Republican Party former United States Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton, Forza Italia's former President of the Italian Senate Marcello Pera, former President of Czech Republic Václav Havel, Peru’s former President Alejandro Toledo, and billionaire financier, Robert Agostinelli and British Conservative Party peer, former First Minister of Northern Ireland and Nobel Peace Prize winner David Trimble.\n\nOn 19 July 2010 a launch event was held at the British House of Commons, hosted by the Henry Jackson Society and Robert Halfon MP.\n\nThe Friends of Israel Initiative met with President Shimon Peres in July 2011 at Beit HaNassi in Jerusalem. The delegation included former Spanish Prime Minister José María Aznar, former US Ambassador to the United Nations John R. Bolton, and founder of Rhone Group Robert Agostinelli and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Lord David Trimble. The President held a working meeting with FII and presented an overview of the on situation in Israel and the region at large.\n\nThe declared purpose of the initiative is to \"seek to counter the attempts to delegitimize the State of Israel and its right to live in peace within safe and defensible borders\". It uses the slogan \"Stand for Israel, Stand for the West\". It also campaigns against Iran, in particular in relation to its potential development of nuclear armaments.\n\nAccording to the Mexican newspaper \"El Financiero\", the purpose of the initiative is to \"reaffirm Western values,\" \"work in favor of recognizing the right of Israel to exist,\" and counteract \"anti-Semitic criticism\" of Israel. According to ABC News, the initiative is founded on the conviction that \"The campaign against Israel corrodes the international system from within, beginning with the United Nations.\"\n\nJosé María Aznar states that FOII is non-Jewish in nature and not linked to the Israeli government, and only non-Jews can become a members of the board. Aznar believes that if Israel were to disappear, Europe would then be directly confronted by radical Islam elements.\n\nThe Friends of Israel are based on the following principles:\n\nThe initiative was founded by:\n\nFOII is headquartered in Madrid, but also has a British arm registered as a charity.\n\nFriends of Israel Initiative has been funded by a dozen private donors from Spain, America, Israel, France, Italy and Britain. It has a working budget of almost £1 million a year.\n\n"}
{"id": "45677869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45677869", "title": "Guilds of Brussels", "text": "Guilds of Brussels\n\nThe Guilds of Brussels, grouped in the Nine Nations of Brussels (; ), were associations of craft guilds that dominated the economic life of the city of Brussels in the late medieval and early modern periods. From 1421 onwards, they were represented in the city government alongside the patrician lineages of the Seven Noble Houses of Brussels, and later also in the States of Brabant as members of the Third Estate. Some of their guildhouses can still be seen as part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site of the Grand Place in Brussels.\n\nRather than being limited to a specific craft, each of the nine \"nations\" grouped a number of trades.\n\nThe \"nations\" were:\n\nThe guilds in Brussels, and throughout Belgium, were suppressed in 1795, during the French occupation of 1794–1814. The furniture and archives of the Brussels guilds were sold at public auction on the Grand Place in August 1796.\n\n"}
{"id": "4064666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4064666", "title": "Gun laws in Mexico", "text": "Gun laws in Mexico\n\nGun politics and laws in Mexico covers the role firearms play as part of society within the limits of the United Mexican States. Current legislation sets the legality by which members of the armed forces, law enforcement and private citizens may acquire, own, possess and carry firearms; covering rights and limitations to individuals—including hunting and shooting sport participants, property and personal protection personnel such as bodyguards, security officers, private security, and extending to VIPs (diplomats, public officials, celebrities).\n\nA common misconception is that firearms are illegal in Mexico and that no person may possess them. This belief originates due the general perception that only members of law enforcement, the armed forces, or those in armed security protection are authorized to have them. While it is true that Mexico possesses strict gun laws, where most types and calibers are reserved to military and law enforcement, the acquisition and ownership of certain firearms and ammunition remains a constitutional right to all Mexican citizens and foreign legal residents; given the requirements and conditions to exercise such right are fulfilled in accordance to the law.\n\nThe right to keep and bear arms was first recognized as a constitutional right under Article 10 of the Mexican Constitution of 1857. However, as part of the Mexican Constitution of 1917, Article 10 was changed where-by the \"right to keep and bear arms\" was given two separate definitions: the right to keep (\"derecho a poseer\" in Spanish) and the right to bear (\"derecho a portar\" in Spanish). The new version of Article 10 specified that citizens were entitled to \"keep arms\" (own them) but may only \"bear them\" (carry them) among the population in accordance to police regulation. This modification to Article 10 also introduced the so-called \"...[arms] for exclusive use of the [military]... \"(in Spanish: \"...de uso exclusivo del Ejército...\"), dictating that the law would stipulate which weapons were reserved for the armed forces, including law enforcement agencies, for being considered \"weapons of war\".\n\nIn 1971, Article 10 of the present Constitution was changed to limit the \"right to keep arms\" within the home only (in Spanish: ...\"derecho a poseer armas en su domicilio\"...) and reserved the \"right to bear arms\" outside the home only to those explicitly authorized by law (i.e. police, military, armed security officers). The following year, the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives came into force and gave the federal government complete jurisdiction and control to the legal proliferation of firearms in the country; at the same time, heavily limiting and restricting the legal access to firearms by civilians.\n\nAs a result of the changes to Article 10 of the Mexican Constitution and the enactment of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives, openly carrying a firearm or carrying a concealed weapon in public is virtually forbidden to private citizens, unless explicitly authorized by the Secretariat of National Defense (SEDENA). For purposes of personal protection, firearms are only permitted within the place of residence and of the type and caliber permitted by law.\n\nContemporary Mexican society experiences gun homicide at a higher rate than many other nations. Firearms have played a significant role in the History of Mexico, and the country was founded with a strong presence and adhesion to arms, though Mexico has a long history of passing gun restriction laws. Mexican Golden Age films often depicted the protagonists and antagonists as gun-slinging cowboys and charros, an example of a cultural attachment to guns which greatly differs on different sides of the border. For on the US side the citizens have a right and legally carry guns, but on the Mexican side the guns are carried in defiance of Mexican law.\n\nIt was through the means of armed combat that Mexico achieved its independence from Spain. From then on, the course of history was marked by several armed conflicts, including the American (1846–48) and French (1861–67) conflicts, as well as indigenous struggles due to the several forms of government that ruled over Mexican territory, culminating with the Mexican Revolution (1910–20) and the Cristero War (1926–29).\n\nBy the 1960s, the government modified Article 10 of the Constitution and enacted the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives, limiting gun ownership to small-caliber handguns, heavily restricting the right to carry outside the homeplace and ending a cultural attachment to firearms by shutting down gun stores, outlawing the private sale of firearms, closing down public shooting facilities.\n\nIn addition, the government has conducted gun-exchange programs from time to time, where citizens are encouraged to exchange any firearm (registered, unregistered, legal or illegal) for either a cash incentive or groceries, without fear of civil or criminal prosecution.\n\nPrior to the Independence of Mexico, the first official record of a restriction on the possession of firearms occurred in 1811 as the Mexican War of Independence was taking place. This restriction came about as an attempt to stop the Miguel Hidalgo-led insurgency against the Royalists of Spain. In 1812 and 1814 the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy in Article 56 and Constitutional Decree for the Liberty of Mexican America in Article 81 prohibited appearing at Vestry meetings with weapons, but did not limit their possession or carrying on other sites such as the home.\n\nFollowing Mexico's independence as the First Mexican Empire in 1822, the Political Provisional Regulation of the Mexican Empire in Article 54 made a reference to the carrying of prohibited arms (in Spanish: \"...el porte de armas prohibidas...\") and by 1824, following the establishment of the United Mexican States, it was declared that no person shall carry any type of weapon. The inclination to adopt a complete ban on firearms came as a precaution and attempt to prevent another armed insurrection that would put the new republic in jeopardy. After this measure, four years followed without war under President Guadalupe Victoria.\n\nHowever, the results of the presidential elections of September 1828 were disputed by runner-up candidate Vicente Guerrero and he called for a revolution, provoking Congress to annul the election and elect Guerrero as president. After he took office in April 1829, civil unrest continued and he was ousted by mid-December only for two other men to serve as president before the end of the year. After Anastasio Bustamante took office in January 1830, considering the instability of the previous year, a mandate was issued that required all in unlawful possession of firearms to surrender them to the government and made it illegal to pawn or purchase them. Between 1831 and 1835, additional mandates were issued voiding all gun licenses previously issued and restricted the issuance of new firearm permits only to those deemed \"peaceful, known and honest\" and made acquiring a license to carry a more rigorous process.\n\nContinuing several decades of instability, Mexico became once again a federal republic and given the important role firearms had played to establish the second republic, the Constitution of 1857 under Article 10, recognized for the first time the \"right for people to keep and bear arms\" as a constitutional guarantee. Also in 1857, another mandate was issued requiring a firearms license in order to carry lawfully. In February 1861, the Secretary of War (now the Secretariat of National Defense) issued a notice reassuring all citizens the guarantee to keep and carry firearms, and expressing that considering that under no circumstances could peaceful and lawful citizens be disarmed, only weapons exclusive of the military would be banned. In December of the same year, a mandate required all persons to surrender such banned weapons.\n\nIn 1893, new regulation on the bearing of arms was issued, recognizing the right to keep and the right to carry while regulating the issuance of licenses to carry, which conditioned that weapons only be carried in a manner that they are visible.\n\nAt the height of the Mexican Revolution, the Constitution of 1917 was enacted and Article 10, carried over from the previous constitution, was modified to define three separate things: one) it recognized the right of the people to keep and bear arms, two) it excepted from civilian possession weapons prohibited by law or reserved for the military, and three) it required that weapons carried in public be done in accordance to the law.\n\nThe 1960s were marked by a series of anti-government movements that escalated to the Tlatelolco massacre, prompting then-President Echeverría and Mexican Congress to modified Article 10 of the Constitution to its present form today, which permits private ownership of firearms within the home only. In January 1972, with the enactment of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives, the legal proliferation of firearms among the population was heavily limited and restricted.\n\nSince its conception, the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives has had several of its articles reformed in an effort to further restrict firearm ownership and their proliferation, by imposing stricter rules for their acquisition and tougher penalties for violations.\n\nThree major events mark the right to keep and bear arms as a constitutional guarantee:\n\nTo keep and bear arms was first recognized as a constitutional right through Article 10 of the Mexican Constitution of 1857:\n\nArticle 10 of the 1857 Constitution gave citizens the right to keep and bear arms, both in their homes and in public for their security and defense. Legislation was to indicate which types of weapons would be forbidden and the penalties imposed to violators.\n\nSixty years later, with the introduction of the Constitution of 1917, Article 10 gives two separate definitions to the right to keep and bear arms:\n\nArticle 10 of the 1917 Constitution still allowed citizens to keep and bear arms in the home or outside, while restricting those weapons reserved to the military but required that those who carry weapons in public, adhere to applicable police regulations.\n\nFifty-four years later, Article 10 was reformed to its actual text in force today:\n\nReformed Article 10 limited citizens' constitutional right to keeping arms in their homes only. Additionally, carrying firearms outside the home (in public) was no longer a right but a privilege federal law would regulate and authorize on a case-by-case basis. With this reform came the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives which limited civilians' legal access to a few small-caliber guns while reserving most types and calibers to the government (i.e., police and military).\n\nThe authority in charge of the control of firearms in Mexico is the Executive Branch (\"Ejecutivo Federal\") through the Secretariat of Interior (SEGOB) and the Secretariat of National Defense (SEDENA), the latter responsible for issuing licenses and running the General Directorate for the Federal Firearms Registry and Explosives Control (DGRFAFyCE).\n\nThe Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives (\"Ley Federal de Armas de Fuego y Explosivos\") is an act of Congress and the legal framework overseeing the lawful proliferation of firearms in the country, including their import, manufacture, sale, purchase, ownership, and possession.\n\nThe Regulation of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives (\"Reglamento de la Ley Federal de Armas de Fuego y Explosivos\") is an additional legal framework governing firearms.\n\nIn regard to the right to keep arms, Title II, Chapter II, Article 15 of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives states:\n\nUnder this clause, citizens are entitled to keep firearms of the type and calibers permitted by law for their security and defense within their home only. Every weapon must be registered with the federal government. While federal law does not set a limit, in legal practice, citizens are only allowed to keep a total of 10 registered firearms (nine long guns, one handgun) per household.\n\nAdditionally, a place of business or employment is not covered under this provision unless the place of business is the same as the place of residence (home business) and therefore it is illegal to keep or carry a firearm in a place of business, even if the business is owned by the lawful registered owner of the weapon unless the appropriate license to carry outside the home is issued by SEDENA.\n\nIn regard to the right to bear arms (carry them beyond the home), Title II, Chapter III, Article 24 of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives states:\n\nUnder this clause, only citizens who have been granted a license to carry can lawfully carry a firearm outside their homes. Beyond military and law enforcement members, these permits are only issued to persons who qualify such as those employed in private security firms, those who live in rural areas, or those who may be targets of crime (politicians, public officials, wealthy citizens).\n\nIn regard to what type of firearms are permitted, Title II, Chapter I, Article 9 of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives states:\n\n\nAdditionally, Article 10 of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives states:\n\n\nUnder these two articles, private citizens are generally restricted to semi-automatic handguns or revolvers of a caliber no greater than .380 (for home defense), rifles no greater than .22, and shotguns no greater than 12 gauge (hunting and shooting when a member of a club). Anything bigger than those calibers is considered \"for exclusive use of the military\" and strictly forbidden for civilian possession, as defined by Article 11 of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives. Only citizens with collector permits may be authorized to possess firearms outside those permitted for civilian ownership.\n\nIn regard to how many firearms a citizen may own, neither the Constitution nor the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives say anything; however, Chapter II, Article 21 of the Regulation of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives states:\n\nThis clause is somewhat controversial among gun enthusiasts in Mexico because current federal law does not set a limit on how many firearms may be owned. However, the Secretariat of National Defense (SEDENA) has set its own rules (in Spanish: \"Disposiciones giradas por la propia Secretaría\"), and while neither federal firearms law nor its regulation set a limit on the amount of firearms a person may own, SEDENA has determined that only nine long guns and one handgun for hunting or shooting activities will be authorized. Consequently, those who do not belong to a hunting or shooting club, will only be authorized one handgun for home defense. If the citizen is an official member of the Mexican hunting and shooting federation they will be allowed to have more than one handgun but always with the 10 gun limit.\n\nIn regard to the transport of firearms, Title III, Chapter IV, Article 60 of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives states:\n\nUnder this clause, anyone intending to transport a firearm outside their home must first obtain the appropriate permit from SEDENA. Those who belong to hunting and/or shooting clubs and keep registered firearms for those purposes must maintain a valid permit (renewable every year) to remove the weapons from their home to the location of relevant activities. Even those who move to a new home address must not only notify SEDENA of the change of address but must also obtain a permit to transport the weapon from the current residence to the new one. Without the appropriate transportation permit, it is illegal to transport a firearm outside the home on your person or vehicle, even if lawfully registered, unloaded and in a locked container.\n\nIn regard to bringing firearms to Mexico, Title III, Chapter III, Article 55 of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives states:\n\nAdditionally, Title III, Chapter III, Article 59 of the Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives states:\n\nUnder these articles, those who intend to engage in hunting and shooting sport activities in Mexico, must first obtain the required temporary import permit from the Secretariat of National Defense prior to traveling to Mexico.\n\nSimilarly, it is possible for Mexican citizens who reside in Mexico and foreign legal residents of Mexico (FM2 holders) to import a firearm into Mexico for their security and legitimate defense, under the types and calibers permitted for home defense and after receiving the appropriate import permit from the Secretariat of National Defense. Whoever intends to import a firearm to Mexico must be able to legally acquire the firearm outside of the country. For example, a US citizen who lawfully resides in Mexico as a FM2 holder or who holds dual nationality could purchase a firearm in the United States and request permission to import the weapon to Mexico. Since the person is eligible to legally purchase a firearm in the United States and he or she is eligible to reside in Mexico, they could be allowed to import the weapon.\n\nWARNING: Do not attempt to take any firearm into Mexico even if the weapon is lawfully registered in your name in the United States (or any other country of residence) and even when the weapon falls under the types and calibers permitted for civilian ownership in Mexico. Unless the bearer has explicit authorization from the Secretariat of National Defense, it is illegal and punishable by law to enter Mexican territory with any firearm as well as to keep and carry any firearm on your person or vehicle at any time, anywhere. These permits cannot be obtained at Mexican customs and immigration when entering Mexico. They must be obtained in advance and in possession of the bearer before any gun enters Mexico. Once entering Mexico with a gun without previous authorization from the Mexican government, a crime has been committed.\n\nThe US Department of State warns US citizens [and all persons regardless of citizenship] against taking any firearm or ammunition into Mexico without prior written authorization from the Mexican authorities. Entering Mexico with a firearm, or even a single round of ammunition, carries a penalty of up to five years in prison, even if the firearm or ammunition is taken into the country unintentionally.\n\nPrivate ownership of firearms is restricted to the home only. Only Mexican citizens and foreign legal residents of Mexico (FM2 holders) may purchase and keep firearms in their place of residence. The Directorate of Commercialization of Arms and Munitions (\"Dirección de Comercialización de Armamento y Municiones\" - DCAM) is the only outlet authorized to sell firearms and ammunition in the country and it is located in Mexico City near SEDENA's headquarters. The transfer of ownership and the sale and purchase of firearms between individuals is also permitted, but the transaction must receive authorization from the Secretariat of National Defense by both parties (buyer and seller) appearing in person along with the weapon, to conduct the transaction in accordance to requirements set by law.\n\nThere are generally five ways private citizens may lawfully purchase, register, own and keep firearms in the home: \n\nFor home defense, the government will authorize the sale and registration of one handgun of the types and calibers permitted by law. For hunting, target practice or competition, the government will authorize the sale and registration of up to nine long guns (rifles or shotguns) and one handgun of the types and calibers permitted by law (must belong to a hunting and/or shooting club for these permits to be issued). For collection, the government may authorize the sale and registration of an unlimited amount of firearms of any type and caliber in accordance to law and regulation.\n\nPrivate citizens wishing to acquire a firearm and ammunition are required by law to do the following:\n\nMexico has a history of various activities and insurrection by militia and paramilitary groups dating back several hundred years that include the exploits of historical figures such as Captain Manuel Pineda Munoz and Francisco \"Pancho\" Villa. This also includes groups such as the Free-Colored Militia (the interracial militias of New Spain, Colonial Mexico), the Camisas Doradas, and the contemporary Self Defense Council of Michoacan.\n\nHowever some of the previous examples are historical, the current official view on the existence of such militias in Mexico, when are not backed by the government, has been always label them as illegal and to combat them in a military and a political way.\n\nModern examples on the Mexican view on militias are the Chiapas conflict against the EZLN and against the EPR in Guerrero, where the government forces combated the upraised militias. And in a more recent case when civilian self-defence militias appeared during the Mexican war on drugs, the government regulated them and transformed the militias in to Rural federal forces, and those who resisted were combated and imprisoned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9698097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9698097", "title": "Horizontalidad", "text": "Horizontalidad\n\nHorizontalidad (, \"horizontality\" or \"horizontalism\") is a social relationship that advocates the creation, development, and maintenance of social structures for the equitable distribution of management power. These structures and relationships function as a result of dynamic self-management, involving the continuity of participation and exchange between individuals to achieve the larger desired outcomes of the collective whole.\n\nAs a specific term, \"horizontalidad\" is attributed to the radical movements that sprouted in December 2001, in Argentina, after the economic crisis. According to Marina Sitrin, it is a new social creation. Different from many social movements of the past, it rejected political programs, opting instead to create directly democratic spaces and new social relationship.\n\nThe related term \"horizontals\" arose during the anti-globalisation European Social Forum in London in 2004 to describe people organising in a style where they \"aspire to an open relationship between participants, whose deliberative encounters (rather than representative status) form the basis of any decisions,\" in contrast to \"verticals\" who \"assume the existence and legitimacy of representative structures, in which bargaining power is accrued on the basis of an electoral mandate (or any other means of selection to which the members of an organisation assent)\".\n\nHorizontalidad is related to the theories of communist anarchism, social ecology and libertarian municipalism, autonomist marxism and participatory economics. According to these schools of thought, horizontality seems to be a necessary factor for real freedom because it allows personal autonomy within a framework of social equality. These approaches advocate a kind of socialist direct democracy and workers' councils (\"autogestion\") or community/neighborhood councils.\n\nAccording to Paul Mason, \"the power of the horizontalist movements is, first, their replicability by people who know nothing about theory, and secondly, their success in breaking down the hierarchies that seek to contain them. They are exposed to a montage of ideas, in a way that the structured, difficult-to-conquer knowledge of the 1970s and 1980s did not allow (...) The big question for horizontalist movements is that as long as you don’t articulate against power, you’re basically doing what somebody has called \"reform by riot\": a guy in a hoodie goes to jail for a year so that a guy in a suit can get his law through parliament\".\n\nNeka, a participant in the unemployed workers movement of Solano, outside Buenos Aires, Argentina, described \"horizontalidad\" as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "521843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521843", "title": "Hydraulic engineering", "text": "Hydraulic engineering\n\nHydraulic engineering as a sub-discipline of civil engineering is concerned with the flow and conveyance of fluids, principally water and sewage. One feature of these systems is the extensive use of gravity as the motive force to cause the movement of the fluids. This area of civil engineering is intimately related to the design of bridges, dams, channels, canals, and levees, and to both sanitary and environmental engineering.\n\nHydraulic engineering is the application of the principles of fluid mechanics to problems dealing with the collection, storage, control, transport, regulation, measurement, and use of water. Before beginning a hydraulic engineering project, one must figure out how much water is involved. The hydraulic engineer is concerned with the transport of sediment by the river, the interaction of the water with its alluvial boundary, and the occurrence of scour and deposition. \"The hydraulic engineer actually develops conceptual designs for the various features which interact with water such as spillways and outlet works for dams, culverts for highways, canals and related structures for irrigation projects, and cooling-water facilities for thermal power plants.\" \n\nA few examples of the fundamental principles of hydraulic engineering include fluid mechanics, fluid flow, behavior of real fluids, hydrology, pipelines, open channel hydraulics, mechanics of sediment transport, physical modeling, hydraulic machines, and drainage hydraulics.\n\n\"Fundamentals of Hydraulic Engineering\" defines hydrostatics as the study of fluids at rest. In a fluid at rest, there exists a force, known as pressure, that acts upon the fluid's surroundings. This pressure, measured in N/m, is not constant throughout the body of fluid. Pressure, p, in a given body of fluid, increases with an increase in depth. Where the upward force on a body acts on the base and can be found by the equation:\n\nwhere, \n\nRearranging this equation gives you the pressure head \"p/ρg\" = \"y\". Four basic devices for pressure measurement are a piezometer, manometer, differential manometer, Bourdon gauge, as well as an inclined manometer.\n\nAs Prasuhn states:\n\nThe main difference between an ideal fluid and a real fluid is that for ideal flow \"p\" = \"p\" and for real flow \"p\" > \"p\". Ideal fluid is incompressible and has no viscosity. Real fluid has viscosity. Ideal fluid is only an imaginary fluid as all fluids that exist have some viscosity.\n\nA viscous fluid will deform continuously under to a shear force by the pascles law, whereas an ideal fluid doesn't deform.\n\nThe various effects of disturbance on a viscous flow are stable, transition and unstable.\n\nFor an ideal fluid, Bernoulli's equation holds along streamlines.\n\n\"p/ρg\" + \"u\"²/2\"g\" = \"p\"/\"ρg\" + \"u\"²/2\"g\" = \"p\"/ρ\"g\" + \"u\"²/2\"g\"\n\nAssuming a flow is bounded on one side only, and that a rectilinear flow passing over a stationary flat plate which lies parallel to the flow, the flow just upstream of the plate has a uniform velocity. As the flow comes into contact with the plate, the layer of fluid actually 'adheres' to a solid surface. There is then a considerable shearing action between the layer of fluid on the plate surface and the second layer of fluid. The second layer is therefore forced to decelerate (though it is not quite brought to rest), creating a shearing action with the third layer of fluid, and so on. As the fluid passes further along the plate, the zone in which shearing action occurs tends to spread further outwards. This zone is known as the 'boundary layer'. The flow outside the boundary layer is free of shear and viscous-related forces so it is assumed to act like an ideal fluid. The intermolecular cohesive forces in a fluid are not great enough to hold fluid together. Hence a fluid will flow under the action of the slightest stress and flow will continue as long as the stress is present. The flow inside the layer can be either viscous or turbulent, depending on Reynolds number.\n\nCommon topics of design for hydraulic engineers include hydraulic structures such as dams, levees, water distribution networks, water collection networks, sewage collection networks, storm water management, sediment transport, and various other topics related to transportation engineering and geotechnical engineering. Equations developed from the principles of fluid dynamics and fluid mechanics are widely utilized by other engineering disciplines such as mechanical, aeronautical and even traffic engineers.\n\nRelated branches include hydrology and rheology while related applications include hydraulic modeling, flood mapping, catchment flood management plans, shoreline management plans, estuarine strategies, coastal protection, and flood alleviation.\n\nEarliest uses of hydraulic engineering were to irrigate crops and dates back to the Middle East and Africa. Controlling the movement and supply of water for growing food has been used for many thousands of years. One of the earliest hydraulic machines, the water clock was used in the early 2nd millennium BC. Other early examples of using gravity to move water include the Qanat system in ancient Persia and the very similar Turpan water system in ancient China as well as irrigation canals in Peru.\n\nIn ancient China, hydraulic engineering was highly developed, and engineers constructed massive canals with levees and dams to channel the flow of water for irrigation, as well as locks to allow ships to pass through. Sunshu Ao is considered the first Chinese hydraulic engineer. Another important Hydraulic Engineer in China, Ximen Bao was credited of starting the practice of large scale canal irrigation during the Warring States period (481 BC-221 BC), even today hydraulic engineers remain a respectable position in China. Before becoming General Secretary of the Communist Party of China in 2002, Hu Jintao was a hydraulic engineer and holds an engineering degree from Tsinghua University\n\nIn the Archaic epoch of the Philippines, hydraulic engineering also developed specially in the Island of Luzon, the Ifugaos of the mountainous region of the Cordilleras built irrigations, dams and hydraulic works and the famous Banaue Rice Terraces as a way for assisting in growing crops around 1000 BC. These Rice Terraces are 2,000-year-old terraces that were carved into the mountains of Ifugao in the Philippines by ancestors of the indigenous people. The Rice Terraces are commonly referred to as the \"Eighth Wonder of the World\". It is commonly thought that the terraces were built with minimal equipment, largely by hand. The terraces are located approximately 1500 metres (5000 ft) above sea level. They are fed by an ancient irrigation system from the rainforests above the terraces. It is said that if the steps were put end to end, it would encircle half the globe.\nEupalinos of Megara, was an ancient Greek engineer who built the Tunnel of Eupalinos on Samos in the 6th century BC, an important feat of both civil and hydraulic engineering. The civil engineering aspect of this tunnel was the fact that it was dug from both ends which required the diggers to maintain an accurate path so that the two tunnels met and that the entire effort maintained a sufficient slope to allow the water to flow.\n\nHydraulic engineering was highly developed in Europe under the aegis of the Roman Empire where it was especially applied to the construction and maintenance of aqueducts to supply water to and remove sewage from their cities. In addition to supplying the needs of their citizens they used hydraulic mining methods to prospect and extract alluvial gold deposits in a technique known as hushing, and applied the methods to other ores such as those of tin and lead.\n\nIn the 15th century, the Somali Ajuran Empire was the only hydraulic empire in Africa. As a hydraulic empire, the Ajuran State monopolized the water resources of the Jubba and Shebelle Rivers. Through hydraulic engineering, it also constructed many of the limestone wells and cisterns of the state that are still operative and in use today. The rulers developed new systems for agriculture and taxation, which continued to be used in parts of the Horn of Africa as late as the 19th century.\n\nFurther advances in hydraulic engineering occurred in the Muslim world between the 8th to 16th centuries, during what is known as the Islamic Golden Age. Of particular importance was the 'water management technological complex' which was central to the Islamic Green Revolution and, by extension, a precondition for the emergence of modern technology. The various components of this 'toolkit' were developed in different parts of the Afro-Eurasian landmass, both within and beyond the Islamic world. However, it was in the medieval Islamic lands where the technological complex was assembled and standardized, and subsequently diffused to the rest of the Old World. Under the rule of a single Islamic Caliphate, different regional hydraulic technologies were assembled into \"an identifiable water management technological complex that was to have a global impact.\" The various components of this complex included canals, dams, the \"qanat\" system from Persia, regional water-lifting devices such as the \"noria, shaduf\" and screwpump from Egypt, and the windmill from Islamic Afghanistan. Other original Islamic developments included the \"saqiya\" with a flywheel effect from Islamic Spain, the reciprocating suction pump and crankshaft-connecting rod mechanism from Iraq, the geared and hydropowered water supply system from Syria, and the water purification methods of Islamic chemists.\n\nIn many respects, the fundamentals of hydraulic engineering haven't changed since ancient times. Liquids are still moved for the most part by gravity through systems of canals and aqueducts, though the supply reservoirs may now be filled using pumps. The need for water has steadily increased from ancient times and the role of the hydraulic engineer is a critical one in supplying it. For example, without the efforts of people like William Mulholland the Los Angeles area would not have been able to grow as it has because it simply doesn't have enough local water to support its population. The same is true for many of our world's largest cities. In much the same way, the central valley of California could not have become such an important agricultural region without effective water management and distribution for irrigation. In a somewhat parallel way to what happened in California, the creation of the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) brought work and prosperity to the South by building dams to generate cheap electricity and control flooding in the region, making rivers navigable and generally modernizing life in the region.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) performed experiments, investigated and speculated on waves and jets, eddies and streamlining. Isaac Newton (1642–1727) by formulating the laws of motion and his law of viscosity, in addition to developing the calculus, paved the way for many great developments in fluid mechanics. Using Newton's laws of motion, numerous 18th-century mathematicians solved many frictionless (zero-viscosity) flow problems. However, most flows are dominated by viscous effects, so engineers of the 17th and 18th centuries found the inviscid flow solutions unsuitable, and by experimentation they developed empirical equations, thus establishing the science of hydraulics.\n\nLate in the 19th century, the importance of dimensionless numbers and their relationship to turbulence was recognized, and dimensional analysis was born. In 1904 Ludwig Prandtl published a key paper, proposing that the flow fields of low-viscosity fluids be divided into two zones, namely a thin, viscosity-dominated boundary layer near solid surfaces, and an effectively inviscid outer zone away from the boundaries. This concept explained many former paradoxes and enabled subsequent engineers to analyze far more complex flows. However, we still have no complete theory for the nature of turbulence, and so modern fluid mechanics continues to be combination of experimental results and theory.\n\nThe modern hydraulic engineer uses the same kinds of computer-aided design (CAD) tools as many of the other engineering disciplines while also making use of technologies like computational fluid dynamics to perform the calculations to accurately predict flow characteristics, GPS mapping to assist in locating the best paths for installing a system and laser-based surveying tools to aid in the actual construction of a system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13764535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13764535", "title": "Information Security Automation Program", "text": "Information Security Automation Program\n\nThe Information Security Automation Program (ISAP, pronounced “I Sap”) is a U.S. government multi-agency initiative to enable automation and standardization of technical security operations. While a U.S. government initiative, its standards based design can benefit all information technology security operations. The ISAP high level goals include standards based automation of security checking and remediation as well as automation of technical compliance activities (e.g. FISMA). ISAP’s low level objectives include enabling standards based communication of vulnerability data, customizing and managing configuration baselines for various IT products, assessing information systems and reporting compliance status, using standard metrics to weight and aggregate potential vulnerability impact, and remediating identified vulnerabilities.\n\nISAP’s technical specifications are contained in the related Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP). ISAP’s security automation content is either contained within, or referenced by, the National Vulnerability Database. \n\nISAP is being formalized through a trilateral memorandum of agreement (MOA) between Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA), the National Security Agency (NSA), and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) also participates and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funds the operation infrastructure on which ISAP relies (i.e., the National Vulnerability Database).\n\n\n\"This document incorporates text from Information Security Automation Program Overview (v1 beta), a public domain publication of the U.S. government.\"\n"}
{"id": "7217042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7217042", "title": "IntelCenter", "text": "IntelCenter\n\nIntelCenter is a United States company, founded in 1989. It is based near Washington, D.C., in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\nThe company \"is a private contractor working for intelligence agencies\". Its stated purpose is to \"study terrorist groups and other threat actors and disseminating that information in a timely manner to those who can act on it. We look at capabilities and intentions, warnings and indicators, operational characteristics and a wide variety of other points in order to better understand how to interdict terrorist operations and reduce the likelihood of future attacks.\"\n\nIntelCenter has a sister company, Tempest Publishing. The company's CEO is Ben N. Venzke.\n\nIntelCenter has provided several video tapes to the Western press that show professed al-Qaeda members, including the following.\n\n\n\nIntelCenter offers \"Qaeda\" tapes for sale on its website.\n\nNeal Krawetz did an error level analysis of the As-Sahab and IntelCenter logos on \"a 2006 al Qaeda video of Ayman al-Zawahiri\". He originally told Kim Zetter of \"Wired News\" that the logos had \"the same error levels and that this indicated they were added at the same time\" (Zetter's words). IntelCenter boss Venzke subsequently denied that his organization had added the As-Sahab logo. He commented: \"just because the error levels are the same for two items in an image, that doesn't prove they were added at the same time, only that the compression was the same for both items when they were added\" (Zetter's words). Krawetz then went back on his original statement, saying that \"the error levels on the IntelCenter and As-Sahab logos are different and that the IntelCenter logo was added after the As-Sahab logo\" (Zetter's words again).\n\nIntelCenter has not revealed how it acquires these videos or explained the discrepancies of the As-Sahab and IntelCenter logos.\n\nIan Clark, director of AHC, stated in an interview with a Norwegian blog that \"IntelCenter for years has forged Osama bin-Laden video tapes\" and that \"IntelCenter is not a credible intelligence source\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8937838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8937838", "title": "Izates bar Monobaz", "text": "Izates bar Monobaz\n\nIzates II (Ἰζάτης), son of Monobaz (Μονόβαζος), or Izates bar Monobaz (also known as Izaates, or ) (ca. 1-55 CE). Izates was a king of the Parthian client kingdom of Adiabene who became a proselyte to Judaism. He was the son of Queen Helena of Adiabene and King Monobazus I of Adiabene. Queen Helena was also said to be the wife of King Abgarus of Edessa and thus the queen of Edessa too. \n\nDuring his youth Izates was sent by his father to the court of King Abinergaos I of Characene in Charax Spasinu. While in Charax Izates became acquainted with a Jewish merchant named Ananias, who familiarized him with the tenets of the Jewish religion, in which he became deeply interested. Izates married King Abinergaos' daughter Symacho who had been converted to Judaism through the efforts of Ananias. His mother had been previously won over to Judaism without his knowledge. On returning home and ascending the throne on the death of his father (c. 31 CE), Izates discovered the conversion of his mother; and he himself intended to adopt Judaism, and even to submit to circumcision. He was, however, dissuaded from this step both by his teacher Ananias and by his mother, but was ultimately persuaded thereto by another Jew, Eleazar.\n\nFor some time Izates enjoyed peace; and he was so highly respected that he was chosen as arbitrator between the Parthian king Artabanus III and his rebellious nobles (c. 39 CE). But when several of Izates' relatives openly acknowledged their conversion to Judaism, some of the nobles of Adiabene secretly induced Abia, an Arab king, to declare war against him. Izates defeated his enemy, who in despair committed suicide. The nobles then conspired with Vologases, King of Parthia, but the latter was at the last moment prevented from carrying out his plans, and Izates continued to reign undisturbed for a total of twenty-four years.\n\nIzates died around 55 CE. His mother Helena survived him for only a short time. He left twenty-four sons and twenty-four daughters. Izates was succeeded by his older brother Monobaz II, who sent Izates' remains and those of Queen Helena to Jerusalem for burial.\n\n"}
{"id": "53746322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53746322", "title": "Jack Ooms", "text": "Jack Ooms\n\nArie Jacobus Johannes “Jack” Ooms (1925–1999) was a Dutch chemist, diplomat and chemical weapons researcher. As head of Dutch chemical defence research, Ooms worked for 23 years for the eradication of chemical warfare, which he believed could best be achieved by a combination of effective chemical protection and international chemical arms control and a permanent, multilateral ban on chemical weapons, as implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention.\n\nIn 1942, during the German occupation of The Netherlands in the Second World War (1940-1945), Ooms entered the University of Utrecht to study chemistry. In 1943 he refused to sign the Nazi loyalty declaration and became an Engelandvaarder by escaping to the United Kingdom by way of Spain and Portugal, much of it on foot. He joined the U.S. Army and, in August 1944, returned to mainland Europe with the Allied landings in southern France. After completing his MSc degree and national military service, he joined the newly formed Chemical Laboratory of the National Defence Research Organization. In 1952 he finished his studies, and was appointed director of the Chemical Laboratory in 1965. \nIn 1978, Ooms was appointed director of the newly merged Technological Laboratory RVO-TNO and the Chemical Laboratory, where he remained until his retirement in 1988.\n\nOoms’ active participation in the negotiation of a permanent, multilateral ban on chemical weapons, began in 1969 when he joined as technical adviser the Netherlands’ delegation to the Eighteen Nation Committee on Disarmament (ENCD) in Geneva. The ENCD (1962–69) was one of several predecessors to the current UN disarmament organization, the Conference on Disarmament (CD). He would become the only delegate to the Conference on Disarmament that continuously participated over the full twenty-year course of these negotiations, which culminated in the adoption of the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) for signature by the United Nations General Assembly in 1992.\n\nSubsequently, he served on the Dutch delegation to the OPCW Preparatory Commission which prepared the founding of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), with its headquarters in The Hague.\nIn 1991 Ooms was appointed to the UN Special Commission then being established to oversee Iraq’s renunciation of weapons of mass destruction. This work continued to engage him in the months immediately prior to his death in 1999.\n\nOne of the main conference rooms used by delegates at the OPCW Headquarters in The Hague is named the Ooms Room after him, to commemorate his efforts in the negotiations for a permanent, multilateral ban on chemical weapons.\n\nOn 27 April 2006, the Prime Minister of The Netherlands, Jan-Peter Balkenende, during his visit to the OPCW on the occasion of the First Observance of the Remembrance Day for All Victims of Chemical Warfare, unveiled a photograph of Ooms.\n\n"}
{"id": "44157476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44157476", "title": "Joint Consultants' Committee", "text": "Joint Consultants' Committee\n\nThe Joint Consultants' Committee, properly the Joint Medical Consultative Council, is a negotiating committee for NHS hospital doctors in the United Kingdom established in 1948. It represents the medical profession in discussions with the government on matters relating to the maintenance of standards of professional knowledge and skill in the hospital service and the encouragement of education and research.\n\nIt is composed of 18 members representing the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges, 17 representing the British Medical Association, 2 representing the British Dental Association, 2 representing the Conference of Postgraduate Medical Deans and 1 representing the Medical Schools Council. The Chairman and the representatives of the Welsh and Northern Irish Sub-committees are Non-Aligned Members.\n\nThe composition has changed over time. In 1969 there were only 24 members in total. Since 1975 it no longer negotiates remuneration or terms and conditions for staff employment, but discusses professional issues such as revalidation.\n\n"}
{"id": "52648655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52648655", "title": "Laïque Pride", "text": "Laïque Pride\n\nLebanese Laïque Pride, also Laïque Pride, Laic Pride, or Secular Pride, is a Lebanese secularist group. It broadly advocates for secularism, women's rights, and media freedom. The group advocates for \"equality among all Lebanese citizens and the separation of religion and politics.\" The group is opposed to confessionalism.\n\nFounded in either 2009 or 2010, \"Lebanese Laique Pride\" was originally created as a Facebook discussion thread on sectarianism. Within a matter of months, the group organized protests against sectarianism and in favor of \"secular Lebanon\" which roughly 7,000 attended.\n\nIn April 2010, Laïque Pride calling for \"an end to the country's deep-rooted sectarian system\" and for a \"secular Lebanon.\" In May 2012, Laïque Pride issued demands, four concerning women's rights and two concerning media freedom. Laïque Pride also supports the enacting of a unified Civil Code for the Personal Status Law. On August 29, 2016, more than 70,000 people gathered on Martyrs' Square in Beirut.\n\n\nMore\n\nhttps://www.lorientlejour.com/article/1039085/la-laicite-optionnelle-est-un-droit-constitutionnel.html La laïcité optionnelle est un droit constitutionnel, par Jacques MACHAALANI, 7/3/2017 OLJ Retrieved 2017 03 09\n\n<nowiki>http://fritanke.no/index.php?page=vis_nyhet&NyhetID=7022</nowiki> Sekulært opprør i Libanon av Even Gran Publisert: 28.04.2010 kl 08:12 Oppdatert: 28.04.2010 kl 09:58 OPPDATERT 30.4 Retrieved 2017 03 09\n\nhttp://majlis-remomm.fr/date/2010/04 Liban: Un laïcitomètre dans le rouge. 29 avril 2010 André Sleiman Retrieved 2017 03 09\n\nhttp://www.atheologie.ca/blogue-012/ La libre pensée au Liban, par David Rand 2014 11 19 Retrieved 2017 03 09\n\nhttp://www.secularism.org.uk/blog/2012/05/asking-the-impossible-lebanons-march-for-secularism Asking the impossible? Lebanon's march for secularism Posted: Tue, 8 May 2012 16:38 by Alex Rowell 2017 03 09\n\nhttp://www.20minutes.fr/monde/diaporama-1113-photo-503705-laique-pride-a-beyrouth Publié le 25 Avril 2010 Retrieved 2017 03 09\n\nhttp://leclairon.blog.lemonde.fr/2010/02/08/liban-sortir-du-systeme-confessionnel/ Liban : sortir du système confessionnel ? 8 février 2010 Retrieved 2017 03 09\n\nhttp://savatier.blog.lemonde.fr/2012/09/24/liban-2012-26-le-retour-des-vieux-demons/ Liban 2012 (2/6) : Le retour des vieux démons ? 24 septembre 2012, par Thierry Savatier Retrieved 2017 03 09\n"}
{"id": "8847424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8847424", "title": "Lio 'On Famör Rotuma Party", "text": "Lio 'On Famör Rotuma Party\n\nLio 'On Famör Rotuma or \"LFR\" (meaning \"Voice of the Rotuman People\" in Rotuman) was a political party in Fiji, which sought to represent the interests of the Rotuman people in their main representative constituency, that is, the Rotuman Communal Constituency, which under the 1997 Constitution used to elect a Member of Parliament in the House of Representatives for all people of Rotuman descent across the nation of Fiji. Although the party never won a seat in Parliament, the it tightly contested the parliamentary elections of 1999 and 2001.\n\nThe party faced some controversy over its short history, primarily related to the mismanagement of funds and donations, and having lost some face did not offer a candidate in the 2006 election.\n\n"}
{"id": "15644539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15644539", "title": "London Agreement on German External Debts", "text": "London Agreement on German External Debts\n\nThe London Agreement on German External Debts, also known as the London Debt Agreement (German: \"Londoner Schuldenabkommen\"), was a debt relief treaty between the Federal Republic of Germany and creditor nations. The Agreement was signed in London on February 27, 1953, and came into force on September 16, 1953.\n\nThe Conference on German External Debts (also known as the London Debt Conference) was held between February 28, 1952 and August 28, 1952. The Agreement reached at the Conference was signed in London on February 27, 1953. The Agreement was ratified by the United States, France and United Kingdom on September 16, 1953, at which point the agreement came into force.\n\nThe London Debt Agreement covered a number of different types of German debt from before and after the Second World War. Some of them arose directly out of the efforts to finance the reparations system, while others reflect extensive lending, mostly by U.S. investors to German firms and governments. The parties that were involved besides West Germany included Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Great Britain, Greece, Iran, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Norway, Pakistan, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, South Africa, the United States, Yugoslavia and others. The states of the Eastern Bloc were not involved.\n\nThe total under negotiation was 16 billion marks of debt resulting from the Treaty of Versailles after World War I which had not been paid in the 1930s, but which Germany decided to repay to restore its reputation. This money was owed to government and private banks in the U.S., France and Britain. Another 16 billion marks represented postwar loans by the U.S. Under the London Agreement, the repayable amount was reduced by 50% to about 15 billion marks and stretched out over 30 years, and compared to the fast-growing German economy were of minor impact. An important term of the agreement was that repayments were only due while West Germany ran a trade surplus, and that repayments were limited to 3% of export earnings. This gave Germany’s creditors a powerful incentive to import German goods, assisting reconstruction.\n\nPart of the agreement concerned debts to be paid after the reunification of Germany. For many decades this seemed unlikely to transpire, but in 1990 Deutsche Mark 239.4 million in deferred interest became due. These claims were repaid by means of \"Fundierungsschuldverschreibungen\" (Funding Debt Securities) with a maturity of 20 years. On 3 October 2010 the final payment, Euro 69.9 million, was made on these bonds. This marked the last payment by Germany on known debts resulting from both world wars.\n\nThe agreement significantly contributed to the growth of the post-war German economy and reemergence of Germany as a world economic power. A 2018 study in the \"European Review of Economic History\" showed that the London Agreement \"spurred economic growth in three main ways: creating fiscal space for public investment; lowering costs of borrowing; and stabilising inflation.\" It allowed Germany to enter international economic institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48743986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48743986", "title": "MV Karadeniz Powership Alican Bey", "text": "MV Karadeniz Powership Alican Bey\n\nThe MV \"MV Karadeniz Powership Alican Bey\" is a power barge, a floating power plant, owned and operated by Karpowership. Built in Singapore and converted into a Powership in Turkey, she was commissioned in 2011 to supply electricity to the power grid in Pakistan.\n\nShe was built in Singapore as a specialized submersible vessel\nand christened \"STX Rose 1\".\n\nEnd January 2011, she arrived at Port of Karachi, Pakistan joining , the first Powership of the fleet, which came to Korangi on November 17, 2010. The total installed capacity of the two Powerships amounted 330 MW, while the contract capacity of the power purchase agreement was 232 MW. The Powerships were able to meet almost 50% of the electricity power needs of the 18 million people in Karachi.\n\nIn the wake of political contentions in Pakistan, the Supreme Court of Pakistan declared on March 30, 2011 that all rental power plants (RPP) are illegal and the operating RPPs have to be closed. In March 2012, the Karadeniz Energy Group (Karkey) annulled the energy purchase agreement - a RPP contract- with the Pakistan National Accountability Bureau (NAB), which covered the service of the Powerships MV \"KPS Kaya Bey\" and the later stationed MV \"KPS Alican Bey\". The reason was that the Pakistani side failed to perform their obligations in payments and oil supply. By the end of October 2012, the Pakistani government ordered the repayment of the unused deposit in amount of US$17.2 million from the Turkish partner before the ships can leave. Upon a complaint filed by a politician in the Parliament of Pakistan, the Supreme Court of Pakistan ordered the seizure of the retained Powerships due to a fine of US$120 million demanded by the NAB. The case went to international arbitration on March 11, 2013.\n\nOn May 16, 2014 after two years of retainment, \"LPS Kaya Bey\" left Karachi heading Dubai for repairs and maintenance in compliance with an intermediate decision of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). On August 1 the same year, a second decision of the ICSID enabled the definitive and lasting release of the Powership.\n\nThe dispute was also subject of talks at highest-level of politicians between the both countries' prime ministers and state presidents. It was reported that \"KPS Alican Bey\" and two other vessels of the Turkish company were still in retainment by August 2014.\n\nTribunal constituted under the World Bank’s arbitral center, ICSID, issued the award in August 2017 in favor of Karkey in the case filed by Karkey against Pakistan. Pakistan has been sentenced to pay the company one of the highest compensation amounts under ICSID. \n"}
{"id": "57103536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57103536", "title": "Minimum wage in Poland", "text": "Minimum wage in Poland\n\nThe minimum wage in Polish is the lowest monthly or hourly remuneration that employers are legally allowed to pay their workers in Poland. The sum is decided by the Polish government.\n\nThe current law regulating minimum law in Poland dates to 2002.\n"}
{"id": "44169142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44169142", "title": "Ministry of Health (Bhutan)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Bhutan)\n\nMinistry of Health is ministry of Bhutan responsible for management and development of health reforms in the country.\n"}
{"id": "927330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=927330", "title": "National Question", "text": "National Question\n\nThe National Question is a term used for a variety of issues related to nationalism. In history and politics, the subject is often related to the interplay of territorial, cultural and ethnic factors of peoples. In terms of political theories and movements, the socialist and communism ideologies intensely addressed the topic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26592896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26592896", "title": "No Candidate Deserves My Vote!", "text": "No Candidate Deserves My Vote!\n\nNo Candidate Deserves My Vote! (often abbreviated NCDMV!; in Welsh \"\") is a registered political party of the United Kingdom. The party's core policies are to bring about electoral reform by putting a none of the above option onto every ballot paper of the future. That way the disaffected voter can use their vote to say that none of the parties currently represents them.\n\nAt the 7 June 2001 County Council elections in Hertfordshire, a party registered as No Candidate Deserves My Vote! stood a handful of candidates, its best result being 2.5% of the vote (174 votes) in St Albans South. The party takes the view that offering the opportunity of positive abstention could assist in increasing voter turnout. The results of the MORI survey conducted for the commission after the election offers some support for this suggestion: 12% of those asked said that being able to vote for None of the above candidates would have made them more likely to vote, and the figure increases markedly to 33% for non-voters. However the evidence from international practice in this regard is inconclusive. The Commission does not believe that the case is yet made for the introduction of positive abstention within the UK electoral practice, but intends to undertake a more thorough examination of the issues involved.\n\nThe party planned to field as many candidates as they could in the 2010 General Election.\n\nStephen Phillips (a.k.a. Steve of Stevenage) planned to stand in the Stevenage Constituency in 2010. Eric Mutch of Staple Hill, South Gloucestershire has changed his name by deed poll to Zero None Of The Above and announced his intention to stand in the constituency of Bristol South. However, he changed his mind and handed in nomination papers for Filton and Bradley Stoke.\n\nAmanda Ringwood is the current Party Leader having founded the party with Bob Goodall in November 2000.\nTo date, the highest number of votes gained in one ward is 174 which represented 2.5% of the vote in the St. Albans South ward during the Herts County Council elections in June 2001. The highest vote percentage gained is 3.16% in the Sopwell ward during the St. Albans Local Council elections in May 2002.\n\nNo Candidate Deserves My Vote! has just one core policy:\n\n\nAny successful candidates will have the choice of standing down to force an automatic by-election or staying on to act as an Independent for all other issues.\n\nTo either get candidates elected to the UK parliament or to cause as much a stir as possible for the need for a none of the above option that electoral reform comes about as a result.\n\n"}
{"id": "17120655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17120655", "title": "Operation Mavhoterapapi", "text": "Operation Mavhoterapapi\n\nOperation Mavhoterapapi (), was a large scale Zimbabwean government campaign to punish those who supposedly voted for the Movement for Democratic Change in the 2008 presidential election rather than for ZANU-PF.\n\nHowever, the campaign met with harsh condemnation from Zimbabwean opposition parties, church groups, non-governmental organizations, and the wider international community. \n\n"}
{"id": "41276602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41276602", "title": "Opposition (Myanmar)", "text": "Opposition (Myanmar)\n\nOpposition is the political parties represented in the Assembly of the Union that are not in government either on their own or as part of a governing coalition.\n\nAs in nearly every parliamentary democracy around the world, the Leader of the Opposition comes from the political party with the largest number of seats in the Parliament yet is not in government. The Leader of the Opposition is often seen as a President-in-Waiting or future Speaker of the Assembly of the Union and Speaker of Pyithu Hluttaw or Speaker of Amyotha Hluttaw.\n\n"}
{"id": "50158197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50158197", "title": "PJS v News Group Newspapers", "text": "PJS v News Group Newspapers\n\nPJS v News Group Newspapers ([2016] UKSC 26) is an English legal case in which an anonymised privacy injunction was obtained by a claimant, identified in court documents as \"PJS\", in order to prohibit publication of the details of a sexual encounter between him and two other people. \n\nIn January 2016, PJS applied to the High Court of Justice in London for an injunction to prevent publication of a news story relating to the encounter by \"The Sun on Sunday\". This was declined on the basis that publication would be in the public interest. PJS applied to the Court of Appeal and was successful in overturning the High Court decision. In April 2016, the Court of Appeal ruled that the injunction should be lifted, as the allegations had been published widely both abroad and online. PJS then appealed to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, which in May 2016 decided to uphold the injunction by a majority of 4-1. \n\nThe case has led to debate about the effectiveness of injunctions in the age of the Internet and social media websites.\n\nThe claimant is married to \"YMA\"; both are well known in the entertainment business. The couple have young children. PJS engaged in sexual activity with two individuals known as \"AB\" and \"CD\" who later approached \"The Sun on Sunday\" regarding their sexual encounter.\n\nOn 18 January 2016, PJS applied to the High Court of Justice for an injunction to prohibit \"The Sun on Sunday\" from publishing the story. This was declined by Mr Justice Cranston on the basis that publication would be in the public interest, as it would correct a false image of marital commitment that PJS had presented. Cranston stated: \"The Claimant and his partner have portrayed an image to the world of a committed relationship. That portrayal has taken a number of forms, Mr Tomlinson QC correctly points out there is always a dilemma for a public figure in that if they do not provide publicity they will be pursued the media [sic]. But undoubtedly the Claimant and his partner have on a number of occasions and in various ways portrayed an image of commitment. Moreover the Claimant has himself actively sought publicity.\n\nPJS took the case to the Court of Appeal, which overturned Cranston's decision on 22 January 2016 and granted an injunction preventing publication of the story. The Court ruled that the privacy rights of PJS under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights outweighed the Article 10 freedom of expression rights of the tabloid newspaper that wished to publish the story. The judges found that the image of commitment PJS and YMA had presented was accurate, as commitment does not necessarily entail complete fidelity, and therefore the publication did not correct a false image and was not in the public interest. Lord Justice Jackson commented in his ruling: \"The proposed story, if it is published, will be devastating for the claimant.\"\n\nFollowing the granting of the injunction, the identity of PJS was reported by news media outlets in the United States, Canada, and Scotland. Paul Staines, a political blogger based in Ireland, was claimed to have broken the injunction but said that he was not subject to the UK gagging order. Within England and Wales, the couples' lawyers worked to ensure that web blocking actions were effective. Former Liberal Democrat MP John Hemming, who had used parliamentary privilege to name the claimant in \"CTB v News Group Newspapers\" on the floor of the House of Commons in 2011, said that the matter \"isn't a secret any more\" and urged judges to lift the injunction.\n\n\"The Sun on Sunday\" appealed against the ban on publishing the name of PJS, and on 18 April 2016 the Court of Appeal ruled that the injunction should be lifted, as the allegations had been published widely both abroad and online. Lord Justice Jackson stated: \"Much of the harm which the injunction was intended to prevent has already occurred... The court should not make orders which are ineffective.\" \n\nPJS appealed the decision to lift the interim injunction to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom. The court heard an appeal on 21 April 2016, and on 19 May 2016 delivered a judgment by a 4-1 margin allowing the injunction to remain in force. Lord Toulson issued a dissenting judgment arguing that the details that the injunction was in place to protect had already been published widely on social media. Lord Mance noted in his decision to uphold the injunction: \"There is no public interest (however much it may be of interest to some members of the public) in publishing kiss-and-tell stories or criticisms of private sexual conduct, simply because the persons involved are well-known; and so there is no right to invade privacy by publishing them.\" He added \"The court is well aware of the lesson which Canute gave his courtiers. Unlike Canute, the courts can take steps to enforce its injunction pending trial.\" Following the Supreme Court decision, there were reports that some Twitter users had received e-mails from the site's legal team asking them to remove tweets naming the couple in the \"celebrity threesome\", and pointing out that the site's rules require that users \"comply with all local laws regarding their online conduct and acceptable content.\"\n\nOn 4 November 2016, the case was settled by a Tomlin order issued in the High Court of Justice by Mr Justice Warby. News Group Newspapers was ordered to \"pay a specified sum in full and final settlement of the claimant's claim for damages and costs of and occasioned by the action\" and to give undertakings \"not to use, disclose or publish certain information and to remove and not republish certain existing articles.\"\n\nLegal commentator Joshua Rozenberg compared the injunction in the case to the \"Spycatcher\" affair of the 1980s, saying that \"...both cases raise the same question: at what point should the courts stop trying to preserve the confidentiality of information that is known to many but not to all?\" Kathy English with the \"Toronto Star\" wrote \"I am not at all comfortable with the fact that defending principles of press freedom involves a legal battle to publish lurid details of anyone’s alleged 'three-way sexual encounter.' But... I do see public interest in the interesting questions this injunction raises about global press freedom and media law within the borderless internet and the lengths to which the super wealthy can and do go in Britain to use the courts to try to block embarrassing information in that country and beyond.\"\n\nThe case was the first time that the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom ruled on an issue related to privacy and the right to freedom of speech, and was described as creating a \"de facto\" privacy law which would make it difficult for UK newspapers to publish future \"kiss and tell\" stories, by virtue of placing privacy above the public's right to know. Media lawyer David Engel described the ruling as drawing a clear distinction between confidentiality and privacy, saying the Court \"...has made the practical point that even where people may be able to find the information online, that is qualitatively different - in terms of the distress and damage caused to the victim - from having the story plastered across the front pages of the tabloids.\"\n\nIn June 2018, Lord Mance said in an interview following his retirement as Deputy President of the Supreme Court that there was \"no point\" in maintaining secret identities that had been published online or in the foreign media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1649029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649029", "title": "Parti Bansa Dayak Sarawak", "text": "Parti Bansa Dayak Sarawak\n\nThe Sarawak Native People's Party or (PBDS) was a political party in the state of Sarawak in Malaysia. It was established in 1983, by Datuk Amar (now Tan Sri) Leo Moggie Irok, after seceding from Sarawak National Party (SNAP) following his loss in the contest for the SNAP's president post against Datuk Amar, James Wong Kim Ming.\n\nPBDS, a breakaway of SNAP in Sarawak state election in 1987, won 15 seats while its Permas won only 5 seats.\n\nOverall, the Sarawak's National Front won 28 constituencies with PBB 14; SUPP 11 and SNAP 3.\nIn both cases, SNAP and PBDS (both parties now defunct) joined the Malaysian National Front (Barisan Nasional) as the ruling coalition.\n\nThe party was dissolved twice, firstly in 2003 and secondly in 2004 due to leadership crisis between Datuk Daniel Tajem as the PBDS president and Dr James Jemut Masing as the challenger.\n\nThe dissolution of PBDS led to the formation two offshoot parties; one is Parti Rakyat Sarawak (PRS) led by Datuk Dr James Jemut Masing and Datuk Sng Chee Hua which was successfully registered and admitted into Barisan Nasional in 2004 while another Malaysian Dayak Congress (MDC) failed to be registered by the Registrar of Societies (ROS). Meanwhile, there was also an attempt to revive PBDS and it was finally successfully approved and re-registered as Parti Bansa Dayak Sarawak (Baru) in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1017812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1017812", "title": "Peace Research Institute Oslo", "text": "Peace Research Institute Oslo\n\nThe Peace Research Institute Oslo (; PRIO) is an independent peace and conflict studies research institution, based in Oslo, Norway. It is regarded as the world's \"oldest and most prominent peace research center.\" It was founded in 1959 by a group of Norwegian researchers led by Johan Galtung, the principal founder of peace and conflict studies, who was the institute's first director. The \"Journal of Peace Research\", the discipline's preeminent journal, is also published by the institute.\n\nThe institute is mainly funded by the Research Council of Norway and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and also receives funding from the Ministry of Defence, various international organisations such as the World Bank and the European Union, and private foundations. The institute has around 75 employees. PRIO headquarters are located in central Oslo, next to the headquarters of the Norwegian Red Cross.\n\nPRIO was founded in 1959 by a group of Norwegian researchers led by Johan Galtung. The institute originally was a department of the Norwegian Institute for Social Research in Oslo and became an independent institute in 1966. It was one of the first centres of peace research in the world, and it is Norway’s only peace research institute. The institute's director since 2009 is Kristian Berg Harpviken, with Inger Skjelsbæk as deputy director. Since 2005, the institute has been located in the former gas works building in central Oslo.\n\nPRIO is an independent foundation, governed by a seven-member board. The board includes two PRIO employees, two members appointed by the Research Council of Norway, one member appointed by the Institute for Social Research, one by the University of Oslo, and one by the Nordic International Studies Association.\n\nPrevious PRIO directors are, chronologically, Johan Galtung (1959–69), Asbjørn Eide (1970, 1980–81), Helge Hveem (1971), Nils Petter Gleditsch (1972, 1977–78), Kjell Skjelsbæk (1973–74), Ole Kristian Holthe (1975–76), Tord Høivik (1979–80, 1984–86), Marek Thee (1981–83), Sverre Lodgaard (1986–92), Hilde Henriksen Waage (const., 1992–93), Dan Smith (1993–2001), Stein Tønnesson (2001–09), Kristian Berg Harpviken (2009-2017), and Henrik Urdal (2017-present). After Galtung's resignation in 1969, the institute staff elected a leader for one year at a time. In 1986 this was changed to a three-year period, and again in 1993 to a maximum of two consecutive four-year periods.\n\nPRIOs first chairman of the board was Erik Rinde (1966–79), director of Institute for Social Research. He was succeeded by Torstein Eckhoff (1979–1986), Bernt Bull (1987–94), Frida Nokken (1995-2000), Helge Pharo (2000–2003), Øyvind Østerud (2004–06), Bernt Aardal (2007–2016) and Åslaug Marie Haga (2016 - present).\n\nThe institute's purpose, as formulated in the statutes, is \"to engage in research concerning the conditions for peaceful relations between nations, groups and individuals\". Researchers come from a variety of disciplines in the social sciences and humanities, including political science, sociology, anthropology, psychology, human geography, history, history of religion, and philosophy. Output from the research is primarily published as articles in peer-reviewed academic journals, anthologies or monographs, but also as more policy-oriented reports and papers such as PRIO's in-house series.\n\nApproximately 15 percent of the institute's budget is made up of a core grant from the Research Council of Norway, and the remaining 85 per cent is funded on project basis. The two largest project funders are the Research Council of Norway and the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Other funders include the European Union, the World Bank, and the Norwegian Ministry of Defence. In 2009, PRIO initiated the founding of the US based Peace Research Endowment.\n\nIn Oslo, PRIO hosts the Norwegian Initiative on Small Arms Transfers. This is a joint initiative of PRIO, the Norwegian Red Cross and the Norwegian Church Aid to help block the spread of small arms to areas where they are likely to be used in warfare, armed violence or human rights abuses.\n\nThe staff comprises a core group of 40-50 full-time researchers and support staff. In addition, there are researchers with a part-time affiliation with PRIO, visiting scholars, interns and students. PRIO cooperates with the Australian National University and the University of Stellenbosch in offering master programmes in international studies.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2012, PRIO hosted the Centre for the Study of Civil War, one of the original 13 \"Centres of Excellence\" in Norway. The director for the full 10-year period was Scott Gates.\n\nThe institute maintains a centre in Nicosia, Cyprus, known as the PRIO Cyprus Centre. Through its network, projects and dialogue forums, the PRIO Cyprus Centre aims to foster cooperation between Greek and Turkish Cypriots and strengthen regional cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean at large.\n\nPRIO owns two academic journals, both edited at the institute and published by SAGE Publications: \"Journal of Peace Research\", edited by Henrik Urdal and \"Security Dialogue\", edited by Mark B. Salter.\n\nInitiated in 2010, the PRIO Annual Peace Address intends to create awareness, stir public debate and increase understanding about the conditions for peace in the world. Inviting researchers and other people with strong views on peace-related topics, the idea is to challenge the peace research community by suggesting new measures and bringing new perspectives on peace and war.\n\n"}
{"id": "6553301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6553301", "title": "Police Coast Guard (Singapore)", "text": "Police Coast Guard (Singapore)\n\nThe Police Coast Guard (Abbreviation: PCG; ; ) is the Marine Police division of the Singapore Police Force which also takes on roles of the coast guard typically handled by the military or as separate organisations in other countries. These include the enforcement of law and order in Singapore's territorial waters, and search and rescue operations in collaboration with the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore, and the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority. Currently headquartered in Brani Regional Base at 11 Brani Way on Pulau Brani, Singapore, it traces a history of about 170 years.\n\nGiven Singapore's standing as a trading port since its founding in 1819, problems of piracy had accompanied its early maritime history until the 1840s when Temmenggong Daeng Ibrahim and his son, Sultan Abu Bakar of Johor, openly supported the British efforts to fight piracy. In 1866, the police's maritime operations were formally established with the building of a floating police station. Dedicated police patrol boats began patrolling the waters around the colony.\n\nIn 1916, the Marine Branch was set up, before being established as a separate unit in 1924 and renamed as the Marine Police. The new unit built its first headquarters near Cavenagh Bridge along the Singapore River, and had a fleet of about 26 boats and 238 officers. During the Japanese Occupation of Singapore, all vessels of the Marine Police were confiscated by the Japanese forces. After the war, the Marine Police saw rapid growth with the establishment of sub-bases at Tanjong Kling, Pulau Ubin and Pulau Tekong by 1951. In 1952, the fleet was boosted to 68 as a result of a reorganisation of the Police Force, and rose to 70 during the Konfrontasi with Indonesia in the 1960s in light of the increased operational needs.\n\nWith the attainment of independence for Singapore in 1965, the unit was upgraded in light of increased responsibilities for the new nation. It relocated its headquarters to the new Kallang Regional Base at Kallang Basin in 1970, and became known as the Marine Division.\n\nThe Marine Division underwent a major restructuring and was renamed as the Police Coast Guard on 13 February 1993, given its expanded roles in marine security responsibilities and capabilities, including preventing the intrusion of illegal migrants and foreign government vessels, and the guarding of the Horsburgh Lighthouse on the disputed island of Pedra Branca in the Singapore Straits. The PCG officiated the reorganisation of its operations into three squadrons, namely the Interceptor Squadron, the Port Squadron and the Coastal Patrol Squadron on 7 May 1993 and launched the Special Task Squadron (STS) on 22 January 1997.\n\nOn 20 March 2006, it relocated its headquarters to its current location at Brani Regional Base, due to the planned damming of the Marina Bay and Kallang Basin. The new Police Coast Guard headquarters at Pulau Brani was officially opened on 8 February 2007 by the Minister for Home Affairs, DPM Wong Kan Seng.\n\n\nThe Police Coast Guard is currently headed by Senior Assistant Commissioner (SAC) Cheang Keng Keong, with Deputy Assistant Commissioner (DAC) Alvin Chong as deputy commander (DY Commander). It operates from four regional bases all located on the coastlines of the main island, namely the Brani Regional Base to the south, the Gul Regional Base to the west, the Lim Chu Kang Regional Base to the north and the Loyang Regional Base to the east. It also maintains a small base (police post) on Pulau Ubin. Each of these regional bases are similarly organised to the Neighbourhood Police Centres of the SPF's six Land Divisions and conduct patrols and checks within their respective maritime sectors of Singapore's territorial waters.\n\nThe entire PCG fleet is organised into three main squadrons. The Interceptor Squadron, located at both the Lim Chu Kang and Loyang regional bases, is outfitted with PC-class high-speed patrol-craft able to control, track and prevent the movement of illegal immigrants and intruding vessels all along the Straits of Johor. The Port Squadron, located at both the Gul and Brani regional bases, is equipped with the newer generation of PT-class patrol-boats (previously together with the now-obsolete PX-class patrol-vessels) and have the primary task of ensuring the security and safety of the waters of Singapore's port by responding to criminal and/or safety incidents as well as projecting a major police presence in STW. The third squadron, the Coastal Patrol Squadron (CPS), operates the largest PCG vessels, the PH-class Coastal Patrol Craft (CPC), to secure the far-sea passages of the eastern approaches into STW (from the southwestern edge of the South China Sea) and ensure safe passage for all legitimate users. They are also tasked with protecting the Horsburgh Lighthouse on Pedra Branca in the vicinity, together with the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN).\n\nThe PCG also has an elite unit known as the Special Task Squadron (STS), which can be activated to conduct high-risk operations where high speed and increased firepower are deemed necessary to achieve their objectives. The unit played an instrumental role in the capture of one of the three armed robbers who infiltrated into Singapore by landing on Pulau Tekong in March of 2004.\n\nIn June of 2017, PCG had also introduced a new frontline unit trained in counter-assault skills and to respond to terrorist attacks in Singapore's territorial waters. This unit is known as the Emergency Response Force (ERF), similar to the Emergency Response Team (ERT) of the SPF's Land Divisions (now merged under ERT) and the first batch of ERF-trained officers started on their counter-terrorism maritime patrols in that same month. In addition, the ERF is trained in boarding vessels ranging from small tugboats to large merchant ships to neutralise any terrorist or serious criminal activity aboard and to search for dangerous and/or explosive cargo, goods or items. It is expected that in the near future, all PCG officers are to be trained as ERF members in view of increasing terrorist activity around the world, especially if it centres around Singapore.\n\nThe Police Coast Guard conducts round-the-clock patrols in Singapore's territorial waters from its four regional bases, in an area of more than 200 square nautical miles (700 km²). It is also responsible for maintaining law and order on most of Singapore's islands, except those which are directly accessible by road from the main island, such as Jurong Island, Sentosa and Pulau Ubin.\n\nWhile piracy was the main source of concern leading to the establishment of the Marine Police, it has become almost a non-issue today with no cases of piracy in Singapore's territorial waters in the last decade. Crimes in the offshore islands or in the waters are also markedly low.\n\nThe control of illegal migrants entering Singapore's waters has become one of the most visible roles of the PCG, however, aided in part by constant media reports on such arrests. On 17 August 2006, its arrest of 22 illegal migrants in four separate incidents was touted as the largest number arrested by the PCG in a day by the media. While the number of intrusions has been drastically reduced in recent years with the acquisition of radar and other sophisticated night-vision equipment, the attraction of Singapore as a migrant destination continues to pose a constant operational challenge to the PCG.\n\nIn a further bid to thwart illegal immigrants, the PCG erected physical barriers in the form of high fencing along critical areas of the shoreline where intrusions are common, including Lim Chu Kang, Pulau Punggol Barat, Pulau Ubin and the Western Live Firing Area. By the end of December 2003, the total length of fencing has reached 24.7 kilometres, although there were some protests over the potential environmental hazards the fencing may pose to natural amphibious species, particularly on Pulau Ubin. The PCG attempted to allay these fears by informing that the fencing is constructed to allow small animals to pass below it.\n\nIncluded in the bid to thwart illegal immigrants, the PCG has employed Unmanned Surface Vessels in late 2017 to conduct maritime patrol and these robotic boats can help in easing manpower issues after their field-test and the speed is 30 knots (55 km/h). The Unmanned Surface Vessels have two versions in length; one is 9 metres long and the other is 16 metres long. They don't have armament, but are equipped with searchlights, radar, sensors, cameras and loudspeakers, as well as automatic fire extinguishing system.\n\nThe heightened security alert after the September 11, 2001 attacks necessitated additional attention paid to preventing possible terrorism attacks by sea, a possibility underscored during the revelation of the Singapore embassies attack plot by the Jemaah Islamiyah in December 2001, where it was revealed that the Changi Naval Base was the subject of surveillance. There were also possible plans to bomb American navy ships using the narrow channel between Pulau Tekong and Changi in the northeast of Singapore. In response to these threats, the PCG stepped up routine checks on vessels in Singapore's territorial waters, in particular on passenger ferries returning from regional destinations. Since late 2004, officers were given additional training in the areas of boarding vessels for this purpose, and equipped with skills in the detection of explosives, drugs and fraudulent documents.\n\nThe PCG engages in search-and-rescue operations, and provided assistance in the recovery of the USS \"John S. McCain\".\n\nThe Police Coast Guard would be providing manpower to a new setup called the Coastal Security Force. The Coastal Security Force is a unit under the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore that would be responsible for the safeguarding of non-gazetted landing points which falls under the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code or (ISPS).\n\nThe Police Coast Guard has a strength of over 1,000 personnel, making it one of the largest operational units in the Singapore Police Force. It has traditionally drawn its manpower from a common pool of officers as is the case with land divisions and most other line units. The majority were posted to the unit immediately after basic police training, while the rest were transferred from other divisions or units. In recent years, it offered an option for aspiring regular officers to apply directly to join the unit, thus needing only to attend common courses at the Home Team Academy before receiving specialised marine training for immediate posting within the unit upon graduation.\n\nDue to the specialised nature of the job, officers with the PCG are less likely to transfer to other operational units. Senior Officers in the PCG are, however, usually posted there as part of their cyclical rotation among staff and line units after their mandatory initial posting as Investigation Officers, typically for a short stint of about two to five years. The unit's manpower is supplemented by national servicemen, as well as officers from the Volunteer Special Constabulary.\n\nThe evolution of uniforms worn by the Police Coast Guard largely mirrors that for the land-based divisions, with its earliest uniforms reflecting British heritage and influence. Early uniforms are based on that of navy sailors, consisting of an all-white attire of long-sleeved shirts and shorts. Officers wore the same khaki-based uniforms which were introduced in the land divisions from 1890, before switching to the Dacron blue uniform in 1969 along with the rest of the police force.\n\nWhen the Marine Police was reorganised and renamed as the Police Coast Guard in 1993, the uniform was also changed to the Combat (or No. 4) Uniform. This uniform consisted of a long-sleeved shirt and long pants made of a slightly tougher polyester, and does away with almost all metal parts via the use of Velcro and plastic buttons. They don a blue beret, but are permitted to wear a baseball cap while on operational duties. Footwear is in the form of lace-up leather shoes with non-slip soles. Unlike the Combat Uniform worn by other units in the police force, the uniform adopted hidden plastic buttons to avoid entanglements, and does away with garters since shoes, and not boots, are worn to allow rapid removal should water entry be required.\n\nIn May 2005, the island Patrol Uniform was introduced, consisting of a helmet, dark blue polo top and Bermudas for officers performing bicycle patrol duties on Pulau Ubin. These were introduced to project a softer image on the island where recreational activities abound, and to provide greater comfort for the officers in the humid outdoor weather.\n\nAs part of a force-wide review of the police uniforms, the PCG adopted the new combat uniform similar to that currently worn by the Special Operations Command, albeit with a darker shade of blue. While they were introduced to overcome existing limitations of the current uniform, such as allowing for less hindrance in body movement due to the more relaxed fit, and its non-flammable properties, they met with opposition from some officers who feel it projects the wrong image to the general public, including its \"technician\" look. Officers began to don the new combat uniform from 21 August 2006.\n\nAll patrol-officers of the PCG are equipped with the Taurus Model 85 revolver, much like their Land Division counterparts. Instead of the Monadnock PR-21 T-baton, PCG patrol-officers are issued with the ASP Telescopic Baton, due to its suitability and greater ease of use, especially when collapsed, in confined space onboard ships and vessels. The Glock 19 semi-automatic pistol is only issued to Special Task Squadron officers. PCG patrol-officers are also trained to use and are equipped with the Sabre Red pepper spray as a less-than-lethal option, although it is never widely issued.\n\nOther weapons such as the Heckler & Koch MP5 submachine gun, the M16 assault rifle (now replaced by the M4 Carbine rifle), the SIG Sauer SIG 516 assault rifle and the ARWEN 37 anti-riot weapon are also issued to and stowed aboard each patrol craft (depending on the type of patrol-craft; for example, with the Interceptor Squadron being equipped with the MP5 and CPS and the Port Squadron being equipped with the M4 rifle), with a pump-action shotgun and the FN 303 as additional firearms for the Special Task Squadron. Mounted on the patrol-boats themselves are heavier weapons such as the FN General Purpose Machine Gun (GPMG), the Oerlikon 20mm auto-cannon gun and/or the Browning M2 Heavy Machine Gun (HMG), depending on the type of patrol-craft (the older 3rd-Generation of PT-class is issued with the GPMG whilst the newer PIB-class PT-class patrol-boats are equipped with an automatic gun-turret, fitted with an electrically-operated M2 Browning HMG, on its roof; all CPC carry 20mm auto-cannon guns, their main armament).\n\nThere are currently eight types of boats utilised by the PCG, namely the Command Boat, the Coastal Patrol Craft (CPC), three types of PT boats, the new PC class Patrol Craft, the PK class Interceptor Craft for the Special Task Squadron, and the PJ Class inflatable boats for localised patrols, particularly up smaller rivers and canals.\n\nThe two Command Boats in operation are slightly larger versions of the regular Patrol Craft, and built by Asia-Pacific Geraldton in 1998.\n\nIn 2006, the PCG signed a contract with Damen Shipyard to build 10 specially designed boats, the Damen StanPatrol 3507 to replace its aging Coastal Patrol Craft. The first vessel PH51 Mako Shark was commissioned on 3 February 2009.\n\nThe oldest generation of Patrol Craft in PCG service (as of December 2012) were built in 1984. Odd numbered craft are based in Gul Base and even numbered craft are based in Brani. The first generation Patrol Craft are scheduled to be replaced by the 4th generation Patrol Craft from 2015 onwards. PT5 and PT11 were decommissioned and sold via auction on 29 October 2014.\n\nThe second generation of Patrol Craft were built between 1987 and 1989, including the two Command Boats. Another four boats are operated by the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority. Odd-numbered craft are based in Gul base.\n\nThe third generation of Patrol Craft were introduced in 1998, with 18 built in 1999 and another seven in 2000. They are the Stingray 18WJ Class manufactured by Strategic Marine. At a top speed of , they were faster than the older PT class boats in the PCG when they were officially launched on 29 January 2000 Odd-numbered craft are based in Gul Base.\n\nA new, 4th generation Patrol Interdiction Boat (PIB) sourced from Lung Teh shipyard, Taiwan is scheduled to enter service from 2015 onwards to progressively replace the 1st generation PT patrol craft. The first vessel was commissioned on 21 July 2015. A total of 11 boats would be acquired.\n\nThe New Generation Patrol Craft, also known as the Fast Response Craft, were delivered from the year 2002. There are currently 32 in active service. Even-numbered craft are based in Loyang Base, while odd-numbered craft are in Lim Chu Kang.\n\nThere are two generations of Interceptor Craft in service, with the first delivered in 1995 by North shipyard. The second generation of six boats with a different colour scheme and modified design was introduced in 1999 and officially launched on 29 January 2000. The second generation interceptor craft were not considered a success and was relegated to normal patrol duties and renamed into the PC class. A single vessel, PK/PC 23 was rebadged and operates as a Marine Command Vessel (MCV) under the Singapore Civil Defence Force's Marine Command.\n\nA new, 2nd generation PK interceptor was ordered from Lung Teh shipyard, Taiwan in May 2014 and is scheduled to enter service from 2015 onwards. The two vessels (\"Black\" and \"White Marlin\") were commissioned on 21 July 2015.\n\nThe PJ Class of rigid-hulled inflatable boats is suitable for cruising upriver and large drains and introduced in 1997.\n\nThere are several other types of fast craft boats playing a supportive role. The following is a list of 2nd generation PK class vessels. They have been renumbered and are put into normal patrol operations.\n\nThe PCG operated a fleet of 12 former Republic of Singapore Navy Coastal Patrol Craft (CPC). The craft were upgraded and handed over by the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN), with the first four officially handed over on 7 May 1993 another four on 3 June 1994, and the last four on 22 January 1997 as part of the formation of the Police Coast Guard Coastal Patrol Squadron. The CPCs were built between 1979 and 1980, but continued service for over two decades while a proper replacement was being sourced. Five of the decommissioned vessels were transferred to the Indonesian Marine Police (POLAIR) on 9 February 2012.\n\nThe PCG has engaged in joint operations with the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN) since the 1990s and is still ongoing with strong mutual ties, such as the joint actions of the RSN's 180 Squadron (comprising personnel of the Navy's Accompanying Sea Security Team, better known as ASSeT) and the PCG (with several officers trained and selected to do joint boarding operations with their Navy ASSeT counterparts) in boarding key vital and important cargo vessels (such as LNG/LPG carrier ships or oil tankers) in Singapore's territorial waters to protect them from any terrorist activity, such as hijacking actions or bombing attacks, and to ensure vessels have safe passage, as well as with foreign agencies. Alliances were forged with the Royal Malaysian Police Marine Operations Force and the TNI-AL (Indonesian Navy). It is involved in the annual Cooperation Afloat Readiness and Training (CARAT) programme with the United States Coast Guard, the RSN, and five other Southeast Asian countries. In 2001, it was involved in a joint anti-illegal migrant operation with the Japan Coast Guard in Kanazawa. The PCG also has collaborations with the Republic of Korea Coast Guard and makes regular contacts with the Hong Kong Police Force's Marine Region through a reciprocal attachment programme.\n\nThe PCG has collaborated with the National Police Cadet Corps to establish sea units in secondary schools. The first two units were set up in Anglo-Chinese School (Independent) and Springfield Secondary School in 2002, with the PCG's pool of reservists and Volunteer Special Constabulary officers providing training for the cadets. The first all-girls sea unit was set up in Raffles Girls' School (Secondary) in 2006. The PCG also supports the Special Tactics and Rescue Unit’s maritime assault capability, which was launched on 2 February 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21837800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21837800", "title": "Political ReviewNet", "text": "Political ReviewNet\n\nPolitical ReviewNet is an online database of book reviews from academic journals in the field of international relations and political sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "24087542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24087542", "title": "Presumed security", "text": "Presumed security\n\nPresumed security is a principle in security engineering that a system is safe from attack due to an attacker assuming, on the basis of probability, that it is secure. Presumed security is the opposite of security through obscurity. A system relying on security through obscurity may have actual security vulnerabilities, but its owners or designers deliberately make the system more complex in the hope that attackers are unable to find a flaw. Conversely a system relying on presumed security makes no attempt to address its security flaws, which may be publicly known, but instead relies upon potential attackers simply assuming that the target is not worth attacking. The reasons for an attacker to make this assumption may range from personal risk (the attacker believes the system owners can easily identify, capture and prosecute them) to technological knowledge (the attacker believes the system owners have sufficient knowledge of security techniques to ensure no flaws exist, rendering an attack moot).\n\nAlthough this approach to security is implicitly understood by security professionals, it is rarely discussed or documented. The phrase \"presumed security\" appears to have been first coined by the security commentary website Zero Flaws. The article uses the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst as an example, focusing on the apparent lack of entry security and contrasting it against the presumed security a military installation will have. The article also details the flaws inherent in a trust seal such as the Verisign Secure Site seal, and explains why this presumed security approach is actually detrimental to an overall security posture.\n"}
{"id": "30111500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30111500", "title": "Protection or Free Trade", "text": "Protection or Free Trade\n\nProtection or Free Trade is a book published in 1886 by the economist and social philosopher, Henry George. Its sub-title is An Examination of the Tariff Question with Especial Regard to the Interests of Labor. As the title suggests, George examined the debate between protectionism and free trade.\n\nGeorge was opposed to tariffs, which were at the time both the major method of protectionist trade policy and an important source of federal revenue. He argued that tariffs kept prices high for consumers, while failing to produce any increase in overall wages. He also believed that tariffs protected monopolistic companies from competition, thus augmenting their power. Like Progress and Poverty, much of the book was devoted to attacking privileges, such as land monopoly, which limit trade and rob value from producers.\n\nLargely as a result of this book, free trade became a major issue in federal politics. \"Protection or Free Trade\" was the first book to be read entirely into the Congressional Record. It was read aloud by five Democratic congressmen.\n\nGeorge defended what he considered \"true free trade\". For him, this required free trade to be coupled with the treatment of land as common property:\n\nFree trade means free production. Now fully to free production it is necessary not only to remove all taxes on production, but also to remove all other restrictions on production. True free trade, in short, requires that the active factor of production, Labor, shall have free access to the passive factor of production, Land. To secure this all monopoly of land must be broken up, and the equal right of all to the use of the natural elements must be secured by the treatment of the land as the common property in usufruct of the whole people.\n\nIn 1997, Spencer MacCallum wrote that Henry George was \"undeniably the greatest writer and orator on free trade who ever lived.\"\n\nIn 2009, Tyler Cowen wrote that George's 1886 book \"Protection or Free Trade\" \"remains perhaps the best-argued tract on free trade to this day.\"\n\nJim Powell said that \"Protection or Free Trade\" was probably the best book on trade written by anyone in the Americas, comparing it Adam Smith's \"Wealth of Nations\".\n\nMilton Friedman said it was the most rhetorically brilliant work ever written on trade. Friedman also paraphrased one of George's arguments in favor of free trade: \"It’s a very interesting thing that in times of war, we blockade our enemies in order to prevent them from getting goods from us. In time of peace we do to ourselves by tariffs what we do to our enemy in time of war.”\n\nOswald Garrison Villard said, \"Few men made more stirring and valuable contributions to the economic life of modern America than did Henry George,\" and that what George had \"written about protection and free trade is as fresh and as valuable today as it was at the hour in which it was penned.\"\n\nThe table of contents are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30489456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30489456", "title": "Ramón Lorenzo Falcón", "text": "Ramón Lorenzo Falcón\n\nRamón Lorenzo Falcón (August 30, 1855 – November 14, 1909) was an Argentine Army officer, politician, and Chief of the Argentine Federal Police.\n\nFalcón was born in Buenos Aires. He enrolled at the National Military College and graduated with honors in 1873. He served as aide de camp to President Domingo Sarmiento and was enlisted in the Conquest of the Desert campaign. He co-founded the Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata football club in 1887; CGE would become the oldest association football team in continuous existence in the Americas.\n\nHe retired from the Army in 1898 with the rank of Colonel, and was elected to the Argentine Chamber of Deputies for Buenos Aires on the ruling National Autonomist Party ticket. Amid growing civil unrest, President José Figueroa Alcorta appointed Falcón as Chief of the Argentine Federal Police upon taking office in 1906. Figueroa Alcorta believed that, led by a military officer, the Federal Police would be better able to react to and control protests. Accordingly, Falcón established the Cadets' Training Academy, streamlined the force's administration, and had new uniforms designed.\n\nThe first significant test of Falcón's mettle as chief of police was the Tenants' Strike of 1907. Falcón initiated dialogue with strike organizers, who were mainly women and whose demands centered around rising rents and deteriorating conditions in the city's estimated 2,000 tenements. Ultimately, however, talks broke down, and protests associated with the strike was quelled with the use of mounted police armed with sabres. Rent strikers themselves were evicted from their homes in July (a winter month in the Southern Hemisphere) with the use of high-pressure hoses and cold water. \n\nFalcón became known for personally supervising repressive action against protests, and his sabre-wielding officers, as \"cossacks.\" The most violent such confrontation up to then took place during a May Day demonstration organized in 1909 by FORA, an anarchist labor organization. Following an address on Lorea Square by one of the rally's organizers, Federal Police officers charged the crowd and left a tally of 11 dead and over 100 injured. The incident prompted a general strike led by FORA, and the ensuing repression ordered by Falcón resulted in what became known as the \"Semana Roja\" (\"Red Week\").\nFalcón ordered the dispersal of the crowd of an estimated 60,000 people who had gathered for the funeral cortège for those killed. The 4,000 gathered at Chacarita Cemetery for their burial were likewise dispersed, and the coffins themselves were seized by police. He later ordered \"La Vanguardia\" (published by the Socialist Party of Argentina) and \"La Protesta Humana\" (published by FORA) closed, and had their printing presses destroyed. FORA and the Socialist UGT were granted an audience with the President of the Argentine Senate, Benito Villanueva, and obtained the commutation of lengthy prison sentences for those arrested (which per municipal statutes carried a term of triple that of similar offenses not committed in the context of a protest). They demanded that Falcón resign, though he refused to do so; members of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange led a rally in his support as President Figueroa Alcorta commended him for his efforts. \n\nThe Chief of Police and his executive secretary, Juan Lartigau, attended the funeral of the Director of the National Penitentiary of Buenos Aires, Antonio Ballvé, on November 14, 1909. As their carriage returned from the service, however, a homemade bomb was thrown therein by an Ukrainian Argentine anarchist militant, Simón Radowitzky. Its two occupants died on the way to hospital, and Falcón was buried at La Recoleta Cemetery.\n\nPresident Figueroa Alcorta declared a state of siege and, in 1910, signed the Law of Social Defense, which expedited the deportation of those considered \"agitators.\" Radowitzky was sentenced to life imprisonment and remanded to the custody of the National Penitentiary in Ushuaia. He escaped briefly in 1911 and was ordered to submit to solitary confinement for twenty days on each anniversary of Falcón's assassination. Radowitzky's sentence was commuted by President Hipólito Yrigoyen in 1930, and he died in 1956.\n\nNumerous streets in Buenos Aires and a rural town in Coronel Pringles Partido were named in his honor. The police training academy was, however, renamed in 2011 for Juan Ángel Pirker, Chief of Federal Police from 1986 to 1989.\n"}
{"id": "5741759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5741759", "title": "Rassemblement pour l'indépendance du Québec", "text": "Rassemblement pour l'indépendance du Québec\n\nThe Rassemblement pour l'indépendance du Québec, or RIQ, is an association of citizens in favour of Quebec independence.\n\nFounded in May 2000, it is purposely unaffiliated officially with any political party (like the Parti Québécois, the main Quebec independence party) or any political ideology outside sovereignty matters (despite the important links between the Quebec independence movement and the Quebec left). It did however support the Parti Québécois in the 2003 Quebec general election. It also puts independence before any association projects with Canada (see also: Pur et dur).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47729512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47729512", "title": "Regularized Inglish", "text": "Regularized Inglish\n\nRegularized Inglish is a revised English spelling system devised and advocated by Swedish linguist Axel Wijk, set out in his 1959 book \"Regularized English: An investigation into the English spelling reform problem with a new, detailed plan for a possible solution.\" Wijk's spelling system is moderate compared to other 20th century reforms. Instead of replacing current English spelling with, for example, a fully phonetic notation, Wijk's aim was to replace \"inconsistencies with more regular equivalents.\" Furthermore, certain inconsistencies such as the use of <g> for two separate consonant sounds (as in \"gent\" and \"goat\") are preserved, as are <k>, <c> and <qu> for /k/ and <c> and <nowiki> for /s/.</nowiki> The digraph <ph> is abandoned, but <gh> is preserved where used silently: thus \"high\" but not \"rough\". Consequently, \"Regularized Inglish\" agrees with 90-95% of words spelled using the current English spelling system. \n\nWijk proposed that there should be a separate American and English standard orthography, each based on \"the dialect of its cultivated circles\". However, he felt that this variation should not be extended to English regional varieties.\n\nThe following is a slightly simplified American-spelling version of the story of Dick Whittington written by Wijk and slightly simplified and Americanized by John Cowan:\n\n"}
{"id": "42232478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42232478", "title": "Sally Gross (South African activist)", "text": "Sally Gross (South African activist)\n\nSally Gross (born Selwyn Gross; 22 August 1953 – 14 February 2014) was an anti-apartheid and intersex activist. A member of the African National Congress during the apartheid era, and the founder of Intersex South Africa, Gross acted as a mentor to intersex activists around the globe.\n\nGross was born on 22 August 1953 to a Jewish family, classified as male, and named Selwyn Gross. Although aware of her genital ambiguities, she was only formally diagnosed as having an intersex variation in 1993 at age 40. She was subsequently reclassified as female.\n\nAlthough born to a Jewish family, Gross was drawn to Catholicism and was baptised in early 1976. She fled South Africa in May 1977, on the advice of colleagues in the African National Congress, moving to Botswana and then later to Israel where her parents had settled, before becoming a novitiate in the Dominican Order in Oxford, England, in 1981. She was ordained a deacon in \"around 1985\" and a priest in 1987, and then taught moral theology and ethics at Blackfriars in Oxford. She holds a master's degree from Oxford University. In 1987, Gross served as a delegate in an ANC conference, headed by Thabo Mbeki, in Dakar, Senegal. She was invited to teach in South Africa by the Dominicans once the South African ban on the ANC was lifted in 1990.\n\nGross gained Israeli citizenship but lost her South African citizenship during her time as a refugee, which was restored in 1991. In the early 1990s she began to \"discern and explore\" issues around her body and identity; she took a leave of absence from the Dominican Order, and moved to Eastbourne in England. A year later, her clerical status was stripped and she considered herself removed from communion with the Church. She later found a spiritual home in the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), and in Buddhism.\n\nHer return to South Africa was complicated by a loss of citizenship during the apartheid era, and her change of sex classification. Granted a passport with a male sex descriptor in 1991, her requests for a passport with a female sex descriptor were passed around the South African Home Affairs and Health Departments. Gross rejected a suggestion of \"genital \"disambiguation\" surgery\" as \"an immoral suggestion\". Eventually she was granted a passport and a birth certificate with female sex markers, on the basis of a mistaken original classification.\n\nGross was a founder of Intersex South Africa, an autonomous intersex community organisation affiliated with Organisation Intersex International.\n\nIn 2000, Sally secured the first known mention of intersex in national law, with the inclusion of \"intersex\" within the definition of \"sex\" in the anti-discrimination law of the Republic of South Africa. Since then, she helped to draft legislation on the Alteration of Sex Descriptors, and the Promotion of Equality.\n\nGross was a public speaker on intersex issues, and she was interviewed by the BBC World Service on intersex and the Caster Semenya affair in September 2009. She appears in a video for It Gets Better South Africa in April 2013. Gross also participated in the first International Intersex Forum in 2011 and appears in the documentary Intersexion. Via Skype, Gross presented a paper entitled \"Not in God's Image: Intersex, Social Death and Infanticide\" to a conference on Intersex, Theology and the Bible in March 2013 by the Manchester University Religion and Civil Society Network.\n\nThe \"Daily Maverick\" newspaper reported that Gross died alone in her apartment in Cape Town on 14 February 2014, \"having been forced to appeal to friends for funds to pay rent and medical bills as her health deteriorated; she was virtually immobile.\" In obituaries by Organisation Intersex International, Intersex Trust Aotearoa New Zealand and the \"Star Observer\" newspaper, Gross is remembered as a gentle and fearless advocate, and a mentor.\n\n"}
{"id": "9808417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9808417", "title": "Sicherheit und Frieden", "text": "Sicherheit und Frieden\n\nSicherheit und Frieden (English: \"Security and Peace\") is a quarterly German academic journal focusing on peace research and security policy publishing articles in German and English. Since 2004 the journal also publishes peer-reviewed articles. The current editor-in-chief is Michael Brzoska (Institute for Peace Research and Security Policy, University of Hamburg).\n"}
{"id": "29397050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29397050", "title": "Singaporeans for Democracy", "text": "Singaporeans for Democracy\n\nSingaporeans for Democracy (SfD) was a Singapore based human rights non-governmental organization formed in 2010 by activist-academic Dr James Gomez and several seasoned socio-political activists. The SFD objective was to advocate for political and social reform in Singapore, as well as fostering a multi-partisan civil and political platform to promote democracy within Singapore and abroad. Members of SfD voted to dissolve the organization during their Annual General Meeting in April 2012, with a dissolution request submitted to Singapore's Registry of Societies in June 2012.\n\nSingaporeans for Democracy was mooted by several Singapore activists who sought to bring their own networks and resources to a broader NGO platform for democracy advocacy and activism in early 2009. The process of registering the organisation was then revealed during a public gathering in January 2010 by activist and academic James Gomez. During another public forum in January 2010, the organisation revealed its pro-tem committee and released more updates on the organisation's registration which had been delayed by Singapore's Registry of Societies since April 2009.\n\nSingaporeans for Democracy was officially gazetted as a political association by the Registry of Societies (Singapore) in February 2010.\n\nIn April 2012, members of SfD voted to dissolve the organization during their Annual General Meeting. A dissolution request was submitted to Singapore's Registry of Societies in June 2012. According to SfD, the process of dissolution was to draw attention to legislation that hindered its work as a political action group in Singapore.\n\nSfD maintained its advocacy of a multi-partisan approach to work with NGO and political parties that share a similar ideal to further democracy. Although SFD was a Singapore-based organisation, its leadership stressed on the importance of developing links and maintaining solidarity with foreign NGOs and organisations at the regional and global level.\n\nSingaporeans for Democracy had also been involved in civil and political rights campaigns in Singapore. Some of the key campaigns that were synonymous with SfD are:\n\nSingaporeans for Democracy also organized Singapore's first Freedom Film Festival in November 2010, as well as the subsequent Freedom Film Festival in October 2011.\n\nSFD’s leadership remained the same throughout the thirty months of its existence from January 2010 till June 2012. The post of Executive Director was held by Dr James Gomez, while the position of Executive Secretary was held by filmmaker Martyn See.\n\nOther key activists that were associated with Singaporeans for Democracy include:-\n"}
{"id": "32725127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32725127", "title": "St Thomas' Peace Garden", "text": "St Thomas' Peace Garden\n\nSt Thomas' Peace Garden (aka the Peace Gardens) is a small public park in Birmingham, England, designated as a monument to peace and a memorial to all those killed in armed conflict.\n\nThe Peace Gardens were designed around the tower and west porticos of St Thomas's Church, Bath Row, which was half demolished in the Birmingham Blitz in 1940 and never restored. The grounds were laid out in 1955 to commemorate the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. They were redesigned in 1995 to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the end of World War II. When the world leaders came to Birmingham for the G8 summit in 1998, each planted a tree. Each premier chose a tree that most represented their respective countries and they are now a living symbol of peace. Although the Peace Garden is within St Thomas' grounds this is a site that is for everyone including the ever-growing numbers of non-religious people of Birmingham, the West Midlands and the world.\n\nFollowing victory in the Battle of Waterloo in 1815, Parliament set up a Commission that was given £1million to build so called 'Waterloo Churches' in an act of national thanksgiving in 1818. Two of the Commissioners' churches in Birmingham were designed in a neo-classical style by Thomas Rickman, St. Thomas' and St. Peter's, Dale End in 1825 (now demolished).\n\nSt Thomas' was described at the time as 'of great simplicity, and in every respect consistent with the sacred purpose to which it is dedicated.' The neo-classical rather than gothic designs may have been the result of a rumour in The Quarterly Review, later denied, that the Commissioners wanted no more gothic churches.\n\nThe reason may have been economic, however; Commission Minute Books indicate that Rickman produced two early English designs which would have been more expensive than the neo-classical designs which were finally accepted. The foundation stone of the church was laid by the Bishop of Worcester on 22 October 1826 and three years afterwards the building was completed, being consecrated on 22 October 1829.\n\nOn the night of 11 December 1940, all but the fine tower of St Thomas' and classical west portico was destroyed by German bombs. The church was never rebuilt. The grounds were laid out for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953 when the gravestones were removed and the dead reinterred at Warstone Lane Cemetery.\n\nThe gardens were re-designed as the Peace Garden in 1995 in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the end of World War II. The First World War Memorial colonnade, which had been built as part of the Hall of Memory to designs by S. N. Cooke and W. N. Twist, in 1925, was relocated here when Centenary Square was laid out 1989. Railings with doves of peace were erected, sculpted by Anuradha Patel.\n\nWithin the Peace Garden is a memorial to British service personnel who were killed or injured as a result of nuclear weapons testing in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nWhen the world leaders came to Birmingham for the G8 summit in 1998, each planted a tree here. Each premier choose a tree that most represented their respective countries and they are now a living symbol of peace.\n\nThe spire of St Thomas’ Church is in need of extensive repair work, its stonework is deteriorating rapidly and the golden ball and cross from the top was lost some years ago. St. Thomas' Peace Garden forms the centre of a square bound by part of Washington and Granville Streets, Bath Row and Ridley Street. Following the major development of Lee Bank in the 1960s, the square was surrounded by many poor quality buildings including a large bingo hall, however a regeneration plan for the area has begun and there are a number of new apartments and offices surrounding the square.\n"}
{"id": "48696228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48696228", "title": "University of Oslo’s Human Rights Award", "text": "University of Oslo’s Human Rights Award\n\nUniversity of Oslo's Human Rights Award is an award which is awarded by the University of Oslo to individuals who have made important contributions in different fields. The award was launched in 1986 and since then, it is awarded every year to notable people from different walks of life. Those years when the award was not distributed are 1997, 1999, 2003, 2004.\n\nIt is also called the \"Lisl and Leo Eitinger Prize\".\n\n"}
