{"id": "54980087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54980087", "title": "A View of Religions", "text": "A View of Religions\n\nA View of Religions is an 18th-century comprehensive survey of world religions by the American author, Hannah Adams. First published in Boston, Massachusetts in 1784, it was a pioneering work in that it represented denominations from the perspective of their adherents, without imposing Adams' own preferences. The book was divided into sections and passed through several editions, which included minor changes in the name of the work. It was reprinted in England. \"A View of Religions\" was Adams' first and principal literary work. It was the result of her dissatisfaction with the prejudice of most writers on the various religious sects. She began thinking on the subject after reading a manuscript from Thomas Broughton's \"Historical Dictionary of all Religions from the Creation of the World to the Present Times\" (1742).\n\nUntil she was twenty years of age, Adams's reading had been limited mostly to works of imagination and feeling. She had never been directed to those of a controversial nature, nor to a study of the disputed points between the various sects. Her curiosity being awakened by a small manuscript from Broughton's \"Dictionary\", giving an account of some of the most common of the religious denominations, she began to read all she could find on the subject. At about the age of 30, becoming disgusted with the intolerance and lack of candor of the authors, she decided to write in a blank book what seemed to her to be the truth. In doing this she had no idea of publication. The work grew upon her hands and became known to her friends. Needing money, she was urged to publish it. But to find a printer to take it without immediate pay was the difficulty. She obtained 395 subscribers, 28 of whom were women, including Rev. Nathaniel Emmons, Franklin, Massachusetts (six copies), Rev. Charles Chauncy, D. D., Boston, Dr. James Manning, president of Rhode Island College, Edmund Quincy, Esq., Hon. Oliver Wendell, Nathaniel Appleton, Esq., and Samuel Adams, all of Boston. The hard study and close reflection were so difficult, that she was attacked before she finished it by a severe fit of illness, and threatened with derangement.\n\nA bargain having been made with the printer, the book appeared in 1784. Its motto is, \"Prove all things, hold fast that which is good.\" In the Advertisement at the beginning, the author says she intends to \"avoid giving the least preference of one denomination above another, to give a few arguments of the principal sects from their own authors as far as possible, to endeavor to represent every sect, and be very careful to enter into the spirit of each author.\"\n\nThe condition of public opinion is seen when Thomas Prentiss, pastor of the Congregational Church in Medfield, Massachusetts, in the Preface, felt obliged to say:— \n\nIn 1791, appeared under the title of \"A View of Religions\", the second edition of her book first published seven years before. It was enlarged to 410 pages. Part First treated of nearly 300 different religious denominations which had appeared from the beginning of the Christian era; Part Second, of the worship of the Grand Lama, of Mahometans, Jews, Deists and Sceptics, followed by a short review of the religions of the people of the habitable world. A discriminating judgment was noticeable in the work. This second edition was dedicated to John Adams, then Vice President of the United States, a name, she said, \"which excites the veneration and gratitude of fellow-citizens, the admiration and esteem of foreign nations.\"\n\nOf the 400 subscribers to this second edition, 82 of whom were clergymen and 16 women, John Adams headed the list with three copies. Samuel Adams, lieutenant-governor of Massachusetts, followed. Among the new names gained were those of John Hancock, of Boston; Joseph Willard, D. D., president of Harvard College; Right Rev. John Caroll, D. D., Roman Catholic Bishop of Baltimore, Maryland; Hon. William Bradford, governor of Rhode Island; Rev. Henry Ware of Hingham; Christopher Gore, Esq., Boston; Harrison Gray Otis, Boston; Rev. Adoniram Judson, Sr., Malden; Hon. Benjamin Greenleaf, Newburyport; and many others. Mr. Moses Brown, of Providence, took fifteen copies, and seven of the subscribers took six each.\n\nSuch distinguished names spoke well of Adams's literary ability. The book was pronounced the best of the kind ever written, possibly the first. From its profits, Adams was enabled to pay the debts her sister's illness had contracted, and to put a small sum at interest. In its sale, her father, who was called by the townspeople \"Book Adams,\" was of much help. On horseback, with his saddle-bag full of the books, often reading a volume, he went from place to place, to sell or to distribute them. Of decided literary tastes himself, he was never happier than when making his frequent visits to the library of Harvard College. Once, upon entering it, he lifted up both hands and exclaimed in great earnestness, \"I'd rather be librarian of Harvard College than Emperor of all the Russias!\" Who knows but that if Thomas Adams could have followed out his early desires, he might have been librarian of Harvard College? Circumstances obliged him to go into business, and he made a failure of it.\n\nAfter the publication of the second edition of her book, Adams taught school.\n\nTwo years after the publication of Adams's \"History of New England from the first settlement at Plymouth to the acceptance of the Federal Constitution\", \"A view of religions, in two parts : Part I. Containing an alphabetical compedium of the various religious denominations, which have appeared in the world, from the beginning of the Christian era to the present day. Part II. Containing a brief account of the different schemes of religion now embraced among mankind \" was published, enlarged, and dedicated as before to John Adams. Through the continued kindness of Rev. James Freeman, a bargain was made with the printer whereby she was to receive five hundred dollars in yearly payments, covering a certain period, for the edition of two thousand copies. In 1804 appeared her book of nearly four hundred pages called \" Truth and Excellence of the Christian Religion.\" Her selection of authors and the extracts from their works reveal good judgment and a wide survey of general literature. Not being able to purchase or borrow all the books she needed for this effort, she spent some time in Boston, in order to visit the booksellers' shops. In such places much of the work, as well as the additions to the third edition of her first book, was written. Adams gave this work, with its four hundred subscribers, to the printer for one hundred dollars in books.\n\n\"A View of Religions, in three Parts : Part I. Containing an Alphabetical Compendium of the Denominations among Christians. Part II. Containing a brief Account of Paganism, Mahomedism, Judaism, and Deism. Part III. Containing a View of the Religious of the different Nations of the World. By Hannah Adams. A new Edition, with Corrections and Additions. To which is prefixed, An Essay on Truth, by Andrew Fuller.\" was published in 1805. Griffiths & Griffiths commented:— \n\nIn 1817 appeared \"A Dictionary of All Religions and Religious Denominations\", dedicated as before to John Adams. This was a popular book from the first. It was published in England with a preface and additions by Mr. Andrew Fuller; also in another form by Mr. Thomas Williams, who likewise made alterations. Adams acknowledged herself indebted to both these editions for some of the improvements in her fourth edition. It received the notice of Jared Sparks in the North American Review; he pronounced it the best manual of the kind he knew of. \"It has the peculiar merit,\" he added, \"of the strictest candor and impartiality; and so completely has the author divested herself of all in lividual prepossessions, that it may be doubted whether from a single passage in the whole work her own religious sentiments can be inferred. This freedom from personal bias, in exhibiting the views of others, especially on topics rarely touched without calling out private opinion, inspires confidence in her statements, as well as respect for her judgment and Christian charity.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "232680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232680", "title": "Action fiction", "text": "Action fiction\n\nAction fiction is the literary genre that includes spy novels, adventure stories, tales of terror and intrigue (\"cloak and dagger\"), and mysteries. This kind of story utilizes suspense, the tension that is built up when the reader wishes to know how the conflict between the protagonist and antagonist is going to be resolved or what the solution to the puzzle of a thriller is.\n\nAction fiction is a form of genre fiction whose subject matter is characterized by emphasis on exciting action sequences. This does not always mean they exclude character development or story-telling. Action fiction is related to other forms of fiction, including action films, action games and analogous media in other formats such as manga and anime. It includes martial arts action, extreme sports action, car chases and vehicles, suspense action, and action comedy, with each focusing in more detail on its own type and flavor of action. It is usually possible to tell from the creative style of an action sequence, the emphasis of an entire work, so that, for example, the style of a combat sequence will indicate whether the entire work can be classified as action adventure, or a martial work. Action is mainly defined by a central focus on any kind of exciting movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "27926471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27926471", "title": "Athens Charter (preservation)", "text": "Athens Charter (preservation)\n\nThe Athens Charter for the Restoration of Historic Monuments is a seven-point manifesto adopted at the First International Congress of Architects and Technicians of Historic Monuments in Athens in 1931.\n\nThe Athens Charter for the Restoration of Historic Monuments was produced by the participants of the First International Congress \nof Architects and Technicians of Historic Monuments organized by the International Museums Office and held in Athens in 1931.\nThe seven points of the manifesto were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4535780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4535780", "title": "Cali Fair", "text": "Cali Fair\n\nThe Cali's Fair (Dec. 25 - 30) is the most important cultural event in Cali, Colombia. It is a celebration of the region's cultural identity, famous for the Salsa marathon, horse riding parades and dance parties.\n\nCalled \"La Feria de Cali\" (The Fair of Cali). The Fair has been celebrated since 1957, from December 25 to December 30, and it promotes cultural, ethnical, and musical diversity in the region. Tourism around The Fair is a main driver of the city's economy during the end of the year.\n\nIn a few occasions The Fair included Vallenato and Merengue groups from Colombian and surrounding Caribbean countries, and samba schools from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Also, the Fair is known as the \"Feria de la Caña\" (sugar cane fair) and \"Feria de la salsa\" (Salsa music fair). People enjoy many activities like an opening cabalgata (parade of horseback riders), tascas (international food street), salsa concerts, bullfights (which are under a legal dispute), parades, athletic activities/competitions and cultural exhibitions.\n\nFrom an international stand point Cali is also known as the \"Capital de la Salsa\" given the city's infatuation with that type of Afro-Caribbean music. In early July there is also the Summer Salsa Festival which lasts for one week. It usually includes concerts by the world's great remaining salsa bands as well as dance shows and \"melomano\" competitions in which salsa connoisseurs try to out do each other by digging deep into the archives of salsa music and related sounds to find and reveal long lost tunes.\n\n"}
{"id": "156154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156154", "title": "Chinese culture", "text": "Chinese culture\n\nChinese culture () is one of the world's oldest cultures, originating thousands of years ago. The area in which the culture is dominant covers a large geographical region in East Asia with customs and traditions varying greatly between provinces, cities, and even towns as well. With China being one of the earliest ancient civilizations, Chinese culture is extremely diverse and varying, and it has a profound effect in the philosophy, virtue, etiquette and traditions of Asia to date.\n\nChinese culture is historically considered the dominant culture in East Asia, as it was the civilization that held the most dominant influence in the region that laid out the cultural groundwork for East Asian civilization. \nChinese language, ceramics, architecture, music, dance, literature, martial arts, cuisine, visual arts, philosophy, business etiquette, religion, politics and history have a profound impact on the world, while its traditions and festivals are also celebrated, instilled and practiced by people around Asia.\n\nFrom the Qin dynasty to the late Qing dynasty (221 BC – AD 1840), the Chinese government divided Chinese people into four classes: landlord, peasant, craftsmen, and merchant. Landlords and peasants constituted the two major classes, while merchant and craftsmen were collected into the two minor. Theoretically, except for the position of the Emperor, nothing was hereditary.\n\nChina's majority ethnic group, the Han Chinese are an East Asian ethnic group and nation. They constitute approximately 92% of the population of China, 95% of Taiwan (Han Taiwanese), 76% of Singapore, 23% of Malaysia, and about 17% of the global population, making them the world's largest ethnic group, numbering over 1.3 billion people.\n\nIn modern China, there are 56 officially labelled ethnic groups. Throughout Chinese history, many ethnic groups have merged with the Han Chinese, retained their distinct ethnic identities, or faded away. At the same time, the Han Chinese majority has maintained distinct linguistic and regional cultural traditions through the ages. The term Zhonghua Minzu () has been used to describe the notion of Chinese nationalism in general. Much of the traditional identity within the community has to do with distinguishing the family name.\n\nDuring the 361 years of civil war after the Han dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD), there was a partial restoration of feudalism when wealthy and powerful families emerged with large amounts of land and huge numbers of semi-serfs. They dominated important civilian and military positions of the government, making the positions available to members of their own families and clans. After the Tang dynasty's yellow emergence, the government extended the imperial examination system as an attempt to eradicate this feudalism. Traditional Chinese culture covers large geographical territories, where each region is usually divided into distinct sub-cultures. Each region is often represented by three ancestral items. For example, Guangdong is represented by chenpi, aged ginger and hay. Others include ancient cities like Lin'an (Hangzhou), which include tea leaf, bamboo shoot trunk, and hickory nut. Such distinctions give rise to the old Chinese proverb: \"十里不同風, 百里不同俗/十里不同風\": \"praxis vary within ten \"li\", customs vary within a hundred \"li\"\". The 31 provincial-level divisions of the People's Republic of China grouped by its former administrative areas from 1949 to 1952, which are now known as traditional regions.\n\nSince the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors period, some form of Chinese monarch has been the main ruler above all. Different periods of history have different names for the various positions within society. Conceptually each imperial or feudal period is similar, with the government and military officials ranking high in the hierarchy, and the rest of the population under regular Chinese law. From the late Zhou dynasty (1046–256 BCE) onwards, traditional Chinese society was organized into a hierarchic system of socio-economic classes known as the four occupations.\n\nHowever, this system did not cover all social groups while the distinctions between all groups became blurred ever since the commercialization of Chinese culture in the Song dynasty (960–1279 CE). Ancient Chinese education also has a long history; ever since the Sui dynasty (581–618 CE) educated candidates prepared for the imperial examinations which drafted exam graduates into government as scholar-bureaucrats.This led to the creation of a meritocracy, although success was available only to males who could afford test preparation. Imperial examinations required applicants to write essays and demonstrate mastery of the Confucian classics. Those who passed the highest level of the exam became elite scholar-officials known as \"jinshi\", a highly esteemed socio-economic position. A major mythological structure developed around the topic of the mythology of the imperial exams. Trades and crafts were usually taught by a shifu. The female historian Ban Zhao wrote the \"Lessons for Women\" in the Han dynasty and outlined the four virtues women must abide to, while scholars such as Zhu Xi and Cheng Yi would expand upon this. Chinese marriage and Taoist sexual practices are some of the rituals and customs found in society.\n\nWith the rise of European economic and military power beginning in the mid-19th century, non-Chinese systems of social and political organization gained adherents in China. Some of these would-be reformers totally rejected China's cultural legacy, while others sought to combine the strengths of Chinese and European cultures. In essence, the history of 20th-century China is one of experimentation with new systems of social, political, and economic organization that would allow for the reintegration of the nation in the wake of dynastic collapse.\n\nMost spirituality are derived from Chinese Buddhism, Taoism and Confucianism. The subject of which school was the most influential is always debated as many concepts such as Neo-Confucianism, Buddhism and many others have come about. Reincarnation and other rebirth concept is a reminder of the connection between real-life and the after-life. In Chinese business culture, the concept of \"guanxi\", indicating the primacy of relations over rules, has been well documented. While many deities are part of the tradition, some of the most recognized holy figures include Guan Yin, the Jade Emperor and Buddha.\n\nChinese Buddhism has shaped Chinese culture in a wide variety of areas including art, politics, literature, philosophy, medicine, and material culture.The translation of a large body of Indian Buddhist scriptures into Chinese and the inclusion of these translations together with works composed in China into a printed canon had far-reaching implications for the dissemination of Buddhism throughout the Chinese cultural sphere, including Korea, Japan, Ryukyu Islands and Vietnam. Chinese Buddhism is also marked by the interaction between Indian religions, Chinese religion, and Taoism.\n\nChinese religion was originally oriented to worshipping the supreme god Shang Di during the Xia and Shang dynasties, with the king and diviners acting as priests and using oracle bones. The Zhou dynasty oriented it to worshipping the broader concept of heaven. A large part of Chinese culture is based on the notion that a spiritual world exists. Countless methods of divination have helped answer questions, even serving as an alternative to medicine. Folklores have helped fill the gap between things that cannot be explained. There is often a blurred line between myth, religion and unexplained phenomenon. Many of the stories have since evolved into traditional Chinese holidays. Other concepts have extended to the outside of mythology into spiritual symbols such as Door god and the Imperial guardian lions. Along with the belief of the holy, there is also the evil. Practices such as Taoist exorcism fighting mogwai and jiangshi with peachwood swords are just some of the concepts passed down from generations. A few Chinese fortune telling rituals are still in use today after thousands of years of refinement.\n\nTaoism is a religious or philosophical tradition of Chinese origin which emphasizes living in harmony with the \"Tao\" (, literally \"Way\", also romanized as \"Dao\"). The \"Tao\" is a fundamental idea in most Chinese philosophical schools; in Taoism, however, it denotes the principle that is the source, pattern and substance of everything that exists. Taoism differs from Confucianism by not emphasizing rigid rituals and social order. Taoist ethics vary depending on the particular school, but in general tend to emphasize \"wu wei\" (effortless action), \"naturalness\", simplicity, spontaneity, and the Three Treasures: 慈 \"compassion\", 儉/俭 \"frugality\", and 谦 \"humility\". The roots of Taoism go back at least to the 4th century BCE. Early Taoism drew its cosmological notions from the School of Yinyang (Naturalists), and was deeply influenced by one of the oldest texts of Chinese culture, the \"Yijing\", which expounds a philosophical system about how to keep human behavior in accordance with the alternating cycles of nature. The \"Legalist\" Shen Buhai may also have been a major influence, expounding a realpolitik of wu wei. The \"Tao Te Ching\", a compact book containing teachings attributed to Laozi (), is widely considered the keystone work of the Taoist tradition, together with the later writings of Zhuangzi.\n\nConfucianism, also known as Ruism, was always being the official philosophy throughout most of Imperial China's history, and mastery of Confucian texts was the primary criterion for entry into the imperial bureaucracy. A number of more authoritarian strains of thought have also been influential, such as Legalism.There was often conflict between the philosophies, e.g. the Song Dynasty Neo-Confucians believed Legalism departed from the original spirit of Confucianism. Examinations and a culture of merit remain greatly valued in China today. In recent years, a number of New Confucians (not to be confused with Neo-Confucianism) have advocated that democratic ideals and human rights are quite compatible with traditional Confucian \"Asian values\".\n\nConfucianism is described as tradition, a philosophy, a religion, a humanistic or rationalistic religion, a way of governing, or simply a way of life. Confucianism developed from what was later called the Hundred Schools of Thought from the teachings of the Chinese philosopher Confucius (551–479 BCE), who considered himself a retransmitter of the values of the Zhou dynasty golden age of several centuries before. In the Han dynasty (206 BCE – 220 CE), Confucian approaches edged out the \"proto-Taoist\" Huang-Lao, as the official ideology while the emperors mixed both with the realist techniques of Legalism.\n\nThe Hundred Schools of Thought were philosophies and schools that flourished from the 6th century to 221 BC, during the Spring and Autumn period and the Warring States period of ancient China. An era of great cultural and intellectual expansion in China, it was fraught with chaos and bloody battles, but it was also known as the Golden Age of Chinese philosophy because a broad range of thoughts and ideas were developed and discussed freely. This phenomenon has been called the \"Contention of a Hundred Schools of Thought\" (百家爭鳴/百家争鸣; \"bǎijiā zhēngmíng\"; \"pai-chia cheng-ming\"; \"hundred schools contend\"). The thoughts and ideas discussed and refined during this period have profoundly influenced lifestyles and social consciousness up to the present day in East Asian countries and the East Asian diaspora around the world. The intellectual society of this era was characterized by itinerant scholars, who were often employed by various state rulers as advisers on the methods of government, war, and diplomacy. This period ended with the rise of the imperial Qin Dynasty and the subsequent purge of dissent. A traditional source for this period is the \"Shiji\", or \"Records of the Grand Historian\" by Sima Qian. The autobiographical section of the \"Shiji\", the \"Taishigong Zixu\" (太史公自序), refers to the schools of thought described below.\n\nMohism was an ancient Chinese philosophy of logic, rational thought and science developed by the academic scholars who studied under the ancient Chinese philosopher Mozi (c. 470 BC–c. 391 BC) and embodied in an eponymous book: the \"Mozi\". Another group is the School of the Military (兵家; \"Bingjia\") that studied warfare and strategy; Sunzi and Sun Bin were influential leaders. The School of Naturalists was a Warring States era philosophy that synthesized the concepts of yin-yang and the Five Elements; Zou Yan is considered the founder of this school. His theory attempted to explain the universe in terms of basic forces in nature: the complementary agents of yin (dark, cold, female, negative) and yang (light, hot, male, positive) and the Five Elements or Five Phases (water, fire, wood, metal, and earth).\n\nThe ancient written standard was Classical Chinese. It was used for thousands of years, but was mostly used by scholars and intellectuals which forms the \"top\" class of the society called \"shi da fu (士大夫)\". It was difficult but possible for ordinary people to promote to this class by passing written exams. Calligraphy later became commercialized, and works by famous artists became prized possessions. Chinese literature has a long past; the earliest classic work in Chinese, the \"I Ching\" or \"Book of Changes\" dates to around 1000 BC. A flourishing of philosophy during the Warring States period produced such noteworthy works as Confucius's \"Analects\" and Laozi's \"Tao Te Ching\". (See also: the Chinese classics.) Dynastic histories were often written, beginning with Sima Qian's seminal \"Records of the Grand Historian\", which was written from 109 BC to 91 BC.The Tang Dynasty witnessed a poetic flowering, while the Four Great Classical Novels of Chinese literature were written during the Ming and Qing Dynasties. Printmaking in the form of movable type was developed during the Song Dynasty. Academies of scholars sponsored by the empire were formed to comment on the classics in both printed and handwritten form. Royalty frequently participated in these discussions as well.\n\nChinese philosophers, writers and poets were highly respected and played key roles in preserving and promoting the culture of the empire. Some classical scholars, however, were noted for their daring depictions of the lives of the common people, often to the displeasure of authorities.At the start of the 20th century, most of the population were still illiterate, and the many mutually-unintelligible languages spoken (Mandarin, Wu, Yue (Cantonese), Min Nan (Ban-lam-gu), Jin, Xiang, Hakka, Gan, Hui, Ping etc.) in different regions prevented communication with people from other areas. Nevertheless, the written language keeps the communication open and passing the official orders and documentations throughout the entire region of China. Reformers set out to establish a national language, settling on the Beijing-based Mandarin as the spoken form. After the May 4th Movement, Classical Chinese was quickly replaced by written vernacular Chinese, modeled after the vocabulary and grammar of the standard spoken language.\n\nChinese calligraphy is a form of aesthetically pleasing writing (calligraphy), or, the artistic expression of human language in a tangible form. This type of expression has been widely practiced in China and has been generally highly esteemed in the Chinese cultural sphere (including, historically, for example, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and Vietnam). There are some general standardizations of the various styles of calligraphy in this tradition. Chinese calligraphy and ink and wash painting are closely related: they are accomplished using similar tools and techniques, and have a long history of shared artistry. Distinguishing features of Chinese painting and calligraphy include an emphasis on motion charged with dynamic life. According to Stanley-Baker, \"Calligraphy is sheer life experienced through energy in motion that is registered as traces on silk or paper, with time and rhythm in shifting space its main ingredients.\" Calligraphy has also led to the development of many forms of art in China, including seal carving, ornate paperweights, and inkstones.\n\nIn China, calligraphy is referred to as \"Shūfǎ\" (書法/书法), literally: \"the way/method/law of writing\"; \"Shodō\" () in Japan (literally: \"the way/principle of writing\"); and \"Seoye\" (서예; 書藝) in Korea (literally: \"the skill/criterion of writing\").Chinese calligraphy is normally regarded as one of the \"arts\" (Chinese 藝術/艺术 ) in the countries where it is practised. Chinese calligraphy focuses not only on methods of writing but also on cultivating one's character (人品) and taught as a pursuit (－書法; , \"the rules of writing Han characters\").\n\nThe Zhou dynasty is often regarded as the touchstone of Chinese cultural development. Concepts covered within the Chinese classic texts present a wide range of subjects including poetry, astrology, astronomy, calendar, constellations and many others. Some of the most important early texts include the \"I Ching\" and the \"Shujing\" within the Four Books and Five Classics. Many Chinese concepts such as Yin and Yang, Qi, Four Pillars of Destiny in relation to heaven and earth were theorized in the pre-imperial periods. By the end of the Qing dynasty, Chinese culture would embark on a new era with written vernacular Chinese for the common citizens. Hu Shih and Lu Xun would be pioneers in modern literature. After the founding of the People's Republic of China, the study of Chinese modern literature has gradually been increased over time. Modern-era literature has formed an aspect in the process of forming modern interpretations of nationhood and creation of a sense of national spirit.\n\nTang poetry refers to poetry written in or around the time of or in the characteristic style of China's Tang dynasty (June 18, 618 – June 4, 907, including the 690–705 reign of Wu Zetian) or follows a certain style, often considered as the Golden Age of Chinese poetry. The \"Quantangshi\" includes over 48,900 poems written by over 2,200 authors. During the Tang dynasty, poetry continued to be an important part of social life at all levels of society. Scholars were required to master poetry for the civil service exams, but the art was theoretically available to everyone. This led to a large record of poetry and poets, a partial record of which survives today. Two of the most famous poets of the period were Li Bai and Du Fu. Tang poetry has had an ongoing influence on world literature and modern and quasi-modern poetry. The \"Quantangshi\" (\"Complete Tang Poems\") anthology compiled in the early eighteenth century includes over 48,900 poems written by over 2,200 authors. The \"Quantangwen\" (全唐文, \"Complete Tang Prose\"), despite its name, contains more than 1,500 \"fu\" and is another widely consulted source for Tang poetry. Despite their names, these sources are not comprehensive, and the manuscripts discovered at Dunhuang in the twentieth century included many \"shi\" and some \"fu\", as well as variant readings of poems that were also included in the later anthologies. There are also collections of individual poets' work, which generally can be dated earlier than the Qing anthologies, although few earlier than the eleventh century. Only about a hundred Tang poets have such collected editions extant. Another important source is anthologies of poetry compiled during the Tang dynasty, although only thirteen such anthologies survive in full or in part. Many records of poetry, as well as other writings, were lost when the Tang capital of Changan was damaged by war in the eighth and ninth centuries, so that while more than 50,000 Tang poems survive (more than any earlier period in Chinese history), this still likely represents only a small portion of the poetry that was actually produced during the period. Many seventh-century poets are reported by the 721 imperial library catalog as having left behind massive volumes of poetry, of which only a tiny portion survives, and there are notable gaps in the poetic œuvres of even Li Bai and Du Fu, the two most celebrated Tang poets.\n\nCi (辭/辞) are a poetic form, a type of lyric poetry, done in the tradition of Classical Chinese poetry. \"Ci\" use a set of poetic meters derived from a base set of certain patterns, in fixed-rhythm, fixed-tone, and variable line-length formal types, or model examples: the rhythmic and tonal pattern of the \"ci\" are based upon certain, definitive musical song tunes. They are also known as \"Changduanju\" (長短句/长短句, \"lines of irregular lengths\") and \"Shiyu\" (詩餘/诗馀, \"that which is beside poetry\").Typically the number of characters in each line and the arrangement of tones were determined by one of around 800 set patterns, each associated with a particular title, called \"cípái\" 詞牌/词牌. Originally they were written to be sung to a tune of that title, with set rhythm, rhyme, and tempo. The Song dynasty was also a period of great scientific literature, and saw the creation of works such as Su Song's \"Xin Yixiang Fayao\" and Shen Kuo's \"Dream Pool Essays\". There were also enormous works of historiography and large encyclopedias, such as Sima Guang's \"Zizhi Tongjian\" of 1084 or the \"Four Great Books of Song\" fully compiled and edited by the 11th century. Notable Confucianists, Taoists and scholars of all classes have made significant contributions to and from documenting history to authoring saintly concepts that seem hundred of years ahead of time. Although the oldest surviving textual examples of surviving \"ci\" are from 8th century CE Dunhuang manuscripts, beginning in the poetry of the Liang Dynasty, the \"ci\" followed the tradition of the \"Shi Jing\" and the \"yuefu\": they were lyrics which developed from anonymous popular songs into a sophisticated literary genre; although in the case of the \"ci\" form some of its fixed-rhythm patterns have an origin in Central Asia. The form was further developed in the Tang Dynasty. Although the contributions of Li Bo (also known as Li Po, 701 – 762) are fraught with historical doubt, certainly the Tang poet Wen Tingyun (812–870) was a great master of the \"ci\", writing it in its distinct and mature form. One of the more notable practitioners and developers of this form was Li Yu of the Southern Tang Dynasty during the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period. However, the \"ci\" form of Classical Chinese poetry is especially associated with the poetry of the Song Dynasty, during which it was indeed a popular poetic form. A revival of the \"ci\" poetry form occurred during the end of the Ming Dynasty and the beginning of the Qing Dynasty which was characterized by an exploration of the emotions connected with romantic love together with its valorization, often in a context of a brief poetic story narrative within a \"ci\" poem or a linked group of \"ci\" poems in an application of the \"chuanqi\" form of short story tales to poetry.\n\nThe \"Qu\" form of poetry is a type of Classical Chinese poetry form, consisting of words written in one of a number of certain, set tone patterns, based upon the tunes of various songs. Thus Qu poems are lyrics with lines of varying longer and shorter lengths, set according to the certain and specific, fixed patterns of rhyme and tone of conventional musical pieces upon which they are based and after which these matched variations in lyrics (or individual Qu poems) generally take their name. The fixed-tone type of verse such as the Qu and the \"ci\" together with the \"shi\" and \"fu\" forms of poetry comprise the three main forms of Classical Chinese poetry. In Chinese literature, the Qu () form of poetry from the Yuan dynasty may be called \"Yuanqu\" (元曲 P: \"Yuánqǔ\", W: \"Yüan-chü\"). Qu may be derived from Chinese opera, such as the \"Zaju\" (雜劇/杂剧), in which case these Qu may be referred to as \"sanqu\" (散曲). The \"San\" in \"Sanqu\" refers to the detached status of the \"Qu\" lyrics of this verse form: in other words, rather than being embedded as part of an opera performance the lyrics stand separately on their own. Since the \"Qu\" became popular during the late Southern Song Dynasty, and reached a special height of popularity in the poetry of the Yuan dynasty, therefore it is often called \"Yuanqu\" (元曲), specifying the type of \"Qu\" found in Chinese opera typical of the Yuan dynasty era. Both \"Sanqu\" and \"Ci\" are lyrics written to fit a different melodies, but \"Sanqu\" differs from \"Ci\" in that it is more colloquial, and is allowed to contain \"Chenzi\" (襯字/衬字 \"filler words\" which are additional words to make a more complete meaning). \"Sanqu\" can be further divided into \"Xiaoling\" (小令) and \"Santao\" (散套), with the latter containing more than one melody.\n\nThe Four Great Classical or Classic Novels of Chinese literature are the four novels commonly regarded by Chinese literary criticism to be the greatest and most influential of pre-modern Chinese fiction. Dating from the Ming and Qing dynasties, they are well-known to most Chinese either directly or through their many adaptations to Chinese opera and other popular culture media.They are among the world's longest and oldest novels and are considered to be the pinnacle of China's achievement in classic novels, influencing the creation of many stories, plays, movies, games, and other forms of entertainment throughout countries in East Asia, including Japan, Korea, and Vietnam.\n\nChinese fiction, rooted in narrative classics such as \"Shishuo Xinyu\", \"Sou Shen Ji\", \"Wenyuan Yinghua\", \"Da Tang Xiyu Ji\", \"Youyang Zazu\", \"Taiping Guangji\", and official histories, developed into the novel as early as the Song Dynasty. The novel as an extended prose narrative which realistically creates a believable world of its own evolved in China and in Europe from the 14th to 18th centuries, though a little earlier in China. Chinese audiences were more interested in history and were more historically minded. They appreciated relative optimism, moral humanism, and relative emphasis on collective behavior and the welfare of the society.\n\nThe rise of a money economy and urbanization beginning in the Song era led to a professionalization of entertainment which was further encouraged by the spread of printing, the rise of literacy, and education. In both China and Western Europe, the novel gradually became more autobiographical and serious in exploration of social, moral, and philosophical problems. Chinese fiction of the late Ming dynasty and early Qing dynasty was varied, self-conscious, and experimental. In China, however, there was no counterpart to the 19th-century European explosion of novels. The novels of the Ming and early Qing dynasties represented a pinnacle of classic Chinese fiction. The scholar and literary critic Andrew H. Plaks argues that \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\", \"Water Margin\", \"Journey to the West\", and \"The Golden Lotus\" collectively constituted a technical breakthrough reflecting new cultural values and intellectual concerns. Their educated editors, authors, and commentators used the narrative conventions developed from earlier story-tellers, such as the episodic structure, interspersed songs and folk sayings, or speaking directly to the reader, but they fashioned self-consciously ironic narratives whose seeming familiarity camouflaged a Neo-Confucian moral critique of late Ming decadence. Plaks explores the textual history of the novels (all published after their author's deaths, usually anonymously) and how the ironic and satiric devices of these novels paved the way for the great novels of the 18th century. Plaks further shows these Ming novels share formal characteristics.\n\nChina's fashion history covers hundreds of years with some of the most colorful and diverse arrangements. Different social classes in different eras boast different fashion trends, the color yellow was usually reserved for the emperor during China's Imperial era.\n\nFrom the beginning of its history, Han clothing (especially in elite circles) was inseparable from silk, supposedly discovered by the Yellow Emperor's consort, Leizu. The dynasty to follow the Shang, the Western Zhou Dynasty, established a strict hierarchical society that used clothing as a status meridian, and inevitably, the height of one's rank influenced the ornateness of a costume. Such markers included the length of a skirt, the wideness of a sleeve and the degree of ornamentation. In addition to these class-oriented developments, Han Chinese clothing became looser, with the introduction of wide sleeves and jade decorations hung from the sash which served to keep the \"yi\" closed. The \"yi\" was essentially wrapped over, in a style known as \"jiaoling youren\", or wrapping the right side over before the left, because of the initially greater challenge to the right-handed wearer (people of Zhongyuan discouraged left-handedness like many other historical cultures, considering it unnatural, barbarian, uncivilized, and unfortunate). The Shang Dynasty (c. 1600 BC – 1000 BC), developed the rudiments of \"Hanfu\"; it consisted of a \"yi\", a narrow-cuffed, knee-length tunic tied with a sash, and a narrow, ankle-length skirt, called \"chang\", worn with a \"bixi\", a length of fabric that reached the knees. Vivid primary colors and green were used, due to the degree of technology at the time. Some research claim that historical records in Tang, Song and Ming dynasties also used this term \"Hanfu\" to refer the traditional dress of Han people, yet scholarly research indicates that the modern definition of \"Hanfu\" was created on Baidu Baike and other Chinese websites by internet users, and the various styles of clothing during the Tang, Song, and Ming dynasties were referred to by their own names during their respective time periods. According to Zhang Xian (), a professor of CYUPS(China Youth University of Political Studies), the modern definition of \"Hanfu\" is a problematic concept publicized by advocates of Hanfu movement. These advocates are mostly students, who created a non-academic, non-official standard of Hanfu that refers to the historical dress of the Han Chinese before the Qing dynasty and published it on Baidu Baike.\n\nDuring the Qing Dynasty, China's last imperial dynasty, a dramatic shift of clothing occurred, examples of which include the cheongsam (or qipao in Mandarin). The clothing of the era before the Qing Dynasty is referred to as Hanfu or traditional Han Chinese clothing. Many symbols such as phoenix have been used for decorative as well as economic purposes. Among them were the \"Banners\" (\"qí\"), mostly Manchu, who as a group were called \"Banner People\" (旗人 pinyin: \"qí rén\"). Manchu women typically wore a one-piece dress that retrospectively came to be known as the \"qípáo\" (旗袍, Manchu: \"sijigiyan\" or \"banner gown\"). The generic term for both the male and the female forms of Manchu dress, essentially similar garments, was \"chángpáo\" (長袍/长袍). The \"qipao\" fitted loosely and hung straight down the body, or flared slightly in an A-line. Under the dynastic laws after 1636, all Han Chinese in the banner system were forced to adopt the Manchu male hairstyle of wearing a queue as did all Manchu men and dress in Manchu \"qipao.\" However, the order for ordinary non-Banner Han civilians to wear Manchu clothing was lifted and only Han who served as officials were required to wear Manchu clothing, with the rest of the civilian Han population dressing however they wanted. Qipao covered most of the woman's body, revealing only the head, hands, and the tips of the toes. The baggy nature of the clothing also served to conceal the figure of the wearer regardless of age. With time, though, the \"qipao\" were tailored to become more form fitting and revealing. The modern version, which is now recognized popularly in China as the \"standard\" \"qipao\", was first developed in Shanghai in the 1920s, partly under the influence of Beijing styles. People eagerly sought a more modernized style of dress and transformed the old \"qipao\" to suit their tastes. Slender and form fitting with a high cut, it had great differences from the traditional \"qipao\". It was high-class courtesans and celebrities in the city that would make these redesigned tight fitting \"qipao\" popular at that time. In Shanghai it was first known as \"zansae\" or \"long dress\" (長衫—Mandarin Chinese: chángshān; Shanghainese: \"zansae\"; Cantonese: \"chèuhngsāam\"), and it is this name that survives in English as the \"cheongsam\". Most Han civilian men eventually voluntarily adopted Manchu clothing while Han women continued wearing Han clothing. Until 1911, the changpao was required clothing for Chinese men of a certain class, but Han Chinese women continued to wear loose jacket and trousers, with an overskirt for formal occasions. The \"qipao\" was a new fashion item for Han Chinese women when they started wearing it around 1925.The original \"qipao\" was wide and loose. As hosiery in turn declined in later decades, cheongsams nowadays have come to be most commonly worn with bare legs.While this development fixated the cheongsam as a one-piece dress, by contrast, the related Vietnamese áo dài retained trousers.\n\nChinese art is visual art that, whether ancient or modern, originated in or is practiced in China or by Chinese artists. The Chinese art in the Republic of China (Taiwan) and that of overseas Chinese can also be considered part of Chinese art where it is based in or draws on Chinese heritage and Chinese culture. Early \"stone age art\" dates back to 10,000 BC, mostly consisting of simple pottery and sculptures. After this early period Chinese art, like Chinese history, is typically classified by the succession of ruling dynasties of Chinese emperors, most of which lasted several hundred years.\n\nChinese art has arguably the oldest continuous tradition in the world, and is marked by an unusual degree of continuity within, and consciousness of, that tradition, lacking an equivalent to the Western collapse and gradual recovery of classical styles. The media that have usually been classified in the West since the Renaissance as the decorative arts are extremely important in Chinese art, and much of the finest work was produced in large workshops or factories by essentially unknown artists, especially in Chinese ceramics.\n\nDifferent forms of art have swayed under the influence of great philosophers, teachers, religious figures and even political figures. Chinese art encompasses all facets of fine art, folk art and performance art. Porcelain pottery was one of the first forms of art in the Palaeolithic period. Early Chinese music and poetry was influenced by the \"Book of Songs\", and the Chinese poet and statesman Qu Yuan.\n\nChinese painting became a highly appreciated art in court circles encompassing a wide variety of Shan shui with specialized styles such as Ming Dynasty painting. Early Chinese music was based on percussion instruments, which later gave away to stringed and reed instruments. By the Han dynasty papercutting became a new art form after the invention of paper. Chinese opera would also be introduced and branched regionally in addition to other performance formats such as variety arts.\n\nThe Chinese paper lantern (紙燈籠, 纸灯笼) is a lantern made of thin, brightly colored paper. Paper lanterns come in various shapes and sizes, as well as various methods of construction. In their simplest form, they are simply a paper bag with a candle placed inside, although more complicated lanterns consist of a collapsible bamboo or metal frame of hoops covered with tough paper. Sometimes, other lanterns can be made out of colored silk (usually red) or vinyl. Silk lanterns are also collapsible with a metal expander and are decorated with Chinese characters and/or designs. The vinyl lanterns are more durable; they can resist rain, sunlight, and wind. Paper lanterns do not last very long, they soon break, and silk lanterns last longer. The gold paper on them will soon fade away to a pale white, and the red silk will become a mix between pink and red. Often associated with festivals, paper lanterns are common in China, Korea, Japan, Vietnam, Thailand, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Singapore and Malaysia and, similarly, in Chinatowns, where they are often hung outside of businesses to attract attention. In Japan the traditional styles include \"bonbori\" and \"chōchin\" and there is a special style of lettering called \"chōchin moji\" used to write on them. Airborne paper lanterns are called sky lanterns, and are often released into the night sky for aesthetic effect at lantern festivals.\n\nThe Chinese sky lantern (天燈, 天灯), also known as \"Kongming lantern\", is a small hot air balloon made of paper, with an opening at the bottom where a small fire is suspended. In Asia and elsewhere around the world, sky lanterns have been traditionally made for centuries, to be launched for play or as part of long-established festivities. The name \"sky lantern\" is a translation of the Chinese name but they have also been referred to as \"sky candles\" or \"fire balloons\". The general design is a thin paper shell, which may be from about 30 cm to a couple of metres across, with an opening at the bottom. The opening is usually about 10 to 30 cm wide (even for the largest shells), and is surrounded by a stiff collar that serves to suspend the flame source and to keep it away from the walls. When lit, the flame heats the air inside the lantern, thus lowering its density and causing the lantern to rise into the air. The sky lantern is only airborne for as long as the flame stays alight, after which the lantern sinks back to the ground.\n\nCarved lacquer or \"Qīdiāo\" () is a distinctive Chinese form of decorated lacquerware. While lacquer has been used in China for at least 3,000 years, the technique of carving into very thick coatings of it appears to have been developed in the 12th century CE. It is extremely time-consuming to produce, and has always been a luxury product, essentially restricted to China, though imitated in Japanese lacquer in somewhat different styles. The producing process is called Diāoqī (/彫漆, carving lacquer).Though most surviving examples are from the Ming and Qing dynasties, the main types of subject matter for the carvings were all begun under the Song dynasty, and the development of both these and the technique of carving were essentially over by the early Ming. These types were the abstract \"guri\" or Sword-Pommel pattern, figures in a landscape, and birds and plants. To these some designs with religious symbols, animals, auspicious characters \"(right)\" and imperial dragons can be added. The objects made in the technique are a wide range of small types, but are mostly practical vessels or containers such as boxes, plates and trays. Some screens and pieces of Chinese furniture were made. Carved lacquer is only rarely combined with painting in lacquer and other lacquer techniques. Later Chinese writers dated the introduction of carved lacquer to the Tang dynasty (618–906), and many modern writers have pointed to some late Tang pieces of armour found on the Silk Road by Aurel Stein and now in the British Museum. These are red and black lacquer on camel hide, but the lacquer is very thin, \"less than one millimeter in thickness\", and the effect very different, with simple abstract shapes on a plain field and almost no impression of relief. The style of carving into thick lacquer used later is first seen in the Southern Song (1127–1279), following the development of techniques for making very thick lacquer. There is some evidence from literary sources that it had existed in the late Tang. At first the style of decoration used is known as \"guri\" (/曲仑) from the Japanese word for the ring-pommel of a sword, where the same motifs were used in metal, and is often called the \"Sword-Pommel pattern\" in English. This style uses a family of repeated two-branched scrolling shapes cut with a rounded profile at the surface, but below that a \"V\" section through layers of lacquer in different colours (black, red and yellow, and later green), giving a \"marbled\" effect from the contrasted colours; this technique is called \"tìxī\" (/剃犀) in Chinese. This style continued to be used up to the Ming dynasty, especially on small boxes and jars with covers, though after the Song only red was often used, and the motifs were often carved with wider flat spaces at the bottom level to be exposed.\n\nA folding screen (屏风，屏風) is a type of free-standing furniture. It consists of several frames or panels, which are often connected by hinges or by other means. It can be made in a variety of designs and with different kinds of materials. Folding screens have many practical and decorative uses. It originated from ancient China, eventually spreading to the rest of East Asia, Europe, and other regions of the world. Screens date back to China during the Eastern Zhou period (771–256 BCE). These were initially one-panel screens in contrast to folding screens. Folding screens were invented during the Han dynasty (206 BCE – 220 CE). Depictions of those folding screens have been found in Han-era tombs, such as one in Zhucheng, Shandong Province. Folding screens were originally made from wooden panels and painted on lacquered surfaces, eventually folding screens made from paper or silk became popular too. Even though folding screens were known to have been used since antiquity, it became rapidly popular during the Tang dynasty (618–907). During the Tang dynasty, folding screens were considered ideal ornaments for many painters to display their paintings and calligraphy on. Many artists painted on paper or silk and applied it onto the folding screen. There were two distinct artistic folding screens mentioned in historical literature of the era. One of it was known as the ' () and the other was known as the ' (). It was not uncommon for people to commission folding screens from artists, such as from Tang-era painter Cao Ba or Song-era painter Guo Xi. The landscape paintings on folding screens reached its height during the Song dynasty (960–1279). The lacquer techniques for the Coromandel screens, which is known as \"\" ( \"incised colors\"), emerged during the late Ming dynasty (1368–1644) and was applied to folding screens to create dark screens incised, painted, and inlaid with art of mother-of-pearl, ivory, or other materials.\n\nChinese jade (玉) refers to the jade mined or carved in China from the Neolithic onward. It is the primary hardstone of Chinese sculpture. Although deep and bright green jadeite is better known in Europe, for most of China's history, jade has come in a variety of colors and white \"mutton-fat\" nephrite was the most highly praised and prized. Native sources in Henan and along the Yangtze were exploited since prehistoric times and have largely been exhausted; most Chinese jade today is extracted from the northwestern province of Xinjiang. Jade was prized for its hardness, durability, musical qualities, and beauty. In particular, its subtle, translucent colors and protective qualities caused it to become associated with Chinese conceptions of the soul and immortality. The most prominent early use was the crafting of the Six Ritual Jades, found since the 3rd-millennium  Liangzhu culture: the \"bi\", the \"cong\", the \"huang\", the \"hu\", the \"gui\", and the \"zhang\". Although these items are so ancient that their original meaning is uncertain, by the time of the composition of the \"Rites of Zhou\", they were thought to represent the sky, the earth, and the four directions. By the Han dynasty, the royal family and prominent lords were buried entirely ensheathed in jade burial suits sewn in gold thread, on the idea that it would preserve the body and the souls attached to it. Jade was also thought to combat fatigue in the living. The Han also greatly improved prior artistic treatment of jade. These uses gave way after the Three Kingdoms period to Buddhist practices and new developments in Taoism such as alchemy. Nonetheless, jade remained part of traditional Chinese medicine and an important artistic medium. Although its use never became widespread in Japan, jade became important to the art of Korea and Southeast Asia.\n\nMusic and dance were closely associated in the very early periods of China. The music of China dates back to the dawn of Chinese civilization with documents and artifacts providing evidence of a well-developed musical culture as early as the Zhou Dynasty (1122 BCE – 256 BCE). The earliest music of the Zhou Dynasty recorded in ancient Chinese texts includes the ritual music called \"yayue\" and each piece may be associated with a dance. Some of the oldest written music dates back to Confucius's time. The first major well-documented flowering of Chinese music was exemplified through the popularization of the \"qin\" (plucked instrument with seven strings) during the Tang Dynasty, although the instrument is known to have played a major role before the Han Dynasty.\n\nThere are many musical instruments that are integral to Chinese culture, such as the Xun (Ocarina-type instrument that is also integral in Native American cultures), Guzheng (zither with movable bridges), guqin (bridgeless zither), sheng and xiao (vertical flute), the erhu (alto fiddle or bowed lute), pipa (pear-shaped plucked lute), and many others.\n\nDance in China is a highly varied art form, consisting of many modern and traditional dance genres. The dances cover a wide range, from folk dances to performances in opera and ballet, and may be used in public celebrations, rituals and ceremonies. There are also 56 officially recognized ethnic groups in China, and each ethnic minority group in China also has its own folk dances. The best known Chinese dances today are the Dragon dance and the Lion Dance.\n\nChinese architecture is a style of architecture that has taken shape in East Asia over many centuries. The structural principles of Chinese architecture have remained largely unchanged, the main changes being only the decorative details. Since the Tang dynasty, Chinese architecture has had a major influence on the architectural styles of Korea, Vietnam, and Japan. Chinese architecture, examples for which can be found from more than 2,000 years ago, is almost as old as Chinese civilization and has long been an important hallmark of Chinese culture. There are certain features common to Chinese architecture, regardless of specific regions, different provinces or use. The most important is its emphasis on width, such as the wide halls of the Forbidden City serve as an example. In contrast, Western architecture tends to emphasize height (though exceptions such as pagodas in Eastern architecture also focus on height). Another important feature is symmetry, which connotes a sense of grandeur as it applies to everything from palaces to farmhouses. One notable exception is in the design of gardens, which tends to be as asymmetrical as possible. Like Chinese scroll paintings, the principle underlying the garden's composition is to create enduring flow, to let the patron wander and enjoy the garden without prescription, as in nature herself. Feng shui has played a very important part in structural development. Chinese architecture also have a huge influence on the architecture of East Asia, and to a lesser extent, Southeast Asia as well. The Chinese garden is a landscape garden style which has evolved over three thousand years. It includes both the vast gardens of the Chinese emperors and members of the imperial family, built for pleasure and to impress, and the more intimate gardens created by scholars, poets, former government officials, soldiers and merchants, made for reflection and escape from the outside world. They create an idealized miniature landscape, which is meant to express the harmony that should exist between man and nature. A typical Chinese garden is enclosed by walls and includes one or more ponds, rock works, trees and flowers, and an assortment of halls and pavilions within the garden, connected by winding paths and zig-zag galleries. By moving from structure to structure, visitors can view a series of carefully composed scenes, unrolling like a scroll of landscape paintings.\n\nThe Chinese palace is an imperial complex where the royal court and the civil government resided. Its structures are considerable and elaborate. The Chinese character \"gong\" (宮; meaning \"palace\") represents two connected rooms (呂) under a roof (宀). Originally the character applied to any residence or mansion, but it was used in reference to solely the imperial residence since the Qin Dynasty (3rd century BC). A Chinese palace is composed of many buildings. It has large areas surrounded by walls and moats. It contains large halls (殿) for ceremonies and official business, as well as smaller buildings, temples, towers, residences, galleries, courtyards, gardens, and outbuildings. Apart from the main imperial palace, Chinese dynasties also had several other imperial palaces in the capital city where the empress, crown prince, or other members of the imperial family dwelled. There also existed palaces outside of the capital city called \"away palaces\" (離宮/离宫) where the emperors resided when traveling. Empress dowager Cixi (慈禧太后) built the Summer Palace or Yiheyuan (頤和園/颐和园 – \"The Garden of Nurtured Harmony\") near the Old Summer Palace, but on a much smaller scale than the Old Summer Palace.\n\n\"Paifang\", also known as a \"Pailou\", is a traditional style of Chinese architectural arch or gateway structure that is related to the Indian \"Torana\" from which it is derived. The word \"paifang\" () was originally a collective term for the top two levels of administrative division and subdivisions of ancient Chinese cities. The largest division within a city in ancient China was a \"fang\" (), equivalent to a current day precinct. Each fang was enclosed by walls or fences, and the gates of these enclosures were shut and guarded every night. Each fang was further divided into several \"pai\" (), which is equivalent to a current day (unincorporated) community. Each pai, in turn, contained an area including several hutongs (alleyways). This system of urban administrative division and subdivision reached an elaborate level during the Tang dynasty, and continued in the following dynasties. For example, during the Ming dynasty, Beijing was divided into a total of 36 fangs. Originally, the word \"paifang\" referred to the gate of a fang and the marker for an entrance of a building complex or a town; but by the Song dynasty, a paifang had evolved into a purely decorative monument.\n\nThe Chinese garden is a landscape garden cantonese style which has evolved over the years. It includes both the vast gardens of the Chinese emperors and members of the imperial family, built for pleasure and to impress, and the more intimate gardens created by scholars, poets, former government officials, soldiers and merchants, made for reflection and escape from the outside world. They create an idealized miniature landscape, which is meant to express the harmony that should exist between man and nature. A typical Chinese garden is enclosed by walls and includes one or more ponds, rock works, trees and flowers, and an assortment of halls and pavilions within the garden, connected by winding paths and zig-zag galleries. By moving from structure to structure, visitors can view a series of carefully composed scenes, unrolling like a scroll of landscape paintings. The earliest recorded Chinese gardens were created in the valley of the Yellow River, during the Shang Dynasty (1600–1046 BC). These gardens were large enclosed parks where the kings and nobles hunted game, or where fruit and vegetables were grown. Early inscriptions from this period, carved on tortoise shells, have three Chinese characters for garden, \"you\", \"pu\" and \"yuan\". \"You\" was a royal garden where birds and animals were kept, while pu was a garden for plants. During the Qin Dynasty (221–206 BC), \"yuan\" became the character for all gardens. The old character for \"yuan\" is a small picture of a garden; it is enclosed in a square which can represent a wall, and has symbols which can represent the plan of a structure, a small square which can represent a pond, and a symbol for a plantation or a pomegranate tree. According to the \"Shiji\", one of the most famous features of this garden was the \"Wine Pool and Meat Forest\" (酒池肉林). A large pool, big enough for several small boats, was constructed on the palace grounds, with inner linings of polished oval shaped stones from the sea shores. The pool was then filled with wine. A small island was constructed in the middle of the pool, where trees were planted, which had skewers of roasted meat hanging from their branches. King Zhou and his friends and concubines drifted in their boats, drinking the wine with their hands and eating the roasted meat from the trees. Later Chinese philosophers and historians cited this garden as an example of decadence and bad taste. During the Spring and Autumn period (722–481 BC), in 535 BC, the \"Terrace of Shanghua\", with lavishly decorated palaces, was built by King Jing of the Zhou dynasty. In 505 BC, an even more elaborate garden, the \"Terrace of Gusu\", was begun. It was located on the side of a mountain, and included a series of terraces connected by galleries, along with a lake where boats in the form of blue dragons navigated. From the highest terrace, a view extended as far as Lake Tai, the Great Lake.\n\nChina is one of the main birth places of Eastern martial arts. Chinese martial arts, often named under the umbrella terms \"kung fu\" and \"wushu\", are the several hundred fighting styles that have developed over the centuries in China. These fighting styles are often classified according to common traits, identified as \"families\" (家; ), \"sects\" (派; ) or \"schools\" (门/門; ) of martial arts. Examples of such traits include \"Shaolinquan\" () physical exercises involving Five Animals () mimicry, or training methods inspired by Old Chinese philosophies, religions and legends. Styles that focus on qi manipulation are called \"internal \"(內家拳/内家拳; ), while others that concentrate on improving muscle and cardiovascular fitness are called \"external\" (外家拳; ). Geographical association, as in \"\"northern\"(\"北拳; ) and \"southern\" (南拳; ), is another popular classification method.\n\nChinese martial arts are collectively given the name Kung Fu (gong) \"achievement\" or \"merit\", and (fu) \"man\", thus \"human achievement\") or (previously and in some modern contexts) Wushu (\"martial arts\" or \"military arts\"). China also includes the home to the well-respected Shaolin Monastery and Wudang Mountains. The first generation of art started more for the purpose of survival and warfare than art. Over time, some art forms have branched off, while others have retained a distinct Chinese flavor. Regardless, China has produced some of the most renowned martial artists including Wong Fei Hung and many others. The arts have also co-existed with a variety of including the more standard 18 arms. Legendary and controversial moves like Dim Mak are also praised and talked about within the culture.\nMartial arts schools also teach the art of lion dance, which has evolved from a pugilistic display of Kung Fu to an entertaining dance performance.\n\nA number of and pastimes are popular within Chinese culture. The most common game is Mah Jong. The same pieces are used for other styled games such as Shanghai Solitaire. Others include pai gow, pai gow poker and other bone domino games. Weiqi and xiangqi are also popular. Ethnic games like Chinese yo-yo are also part of the culture where it is performed during social events. Qigong pronounced (Chi Kung) is the practice of spiritual, physical, and medical techniques. It is as a form of exercise and although it is commonly used among the elderly, any one of any age can practice it during their free time. With its combination of physical flexibility and movement, breathing technique, and constant state of focus and mediation, it has also been a way to cleanse and heal the body and helps get in touch with your inner-self. Qigong has continuous rhythmic movements that help reduce stress and build stamina as well as to improve certain functions of the body such as cardiovascular and digestive.\n\nChinese cuisine is a very important part of \"Chinese culture\", which includes cuisine originating from the diverse regions of China, as well as from Chinese people in other parts of the world. Because of the Chinese diaspora and historical power of the country, Chinese cuisine has influenced many other cuisines in Asia, with modifications made to cater to local palates.The preference for seasoning and cooking techniques of Chinese provinces depend on differences in historical background and ethnic groups. Geographic features including mountains, rivers, forests and deserts also have a strong effect on the local available ingredients, considering climate of China varies from tropical in the south to subarctic in the northeast. Imperial, royal and noble preference also plays a role in the change of Chinese cuisines. Because of imperial expansion and trading, ingredients and cooking techniques from other cultures are integrated into Chinese cuisines over time. The most praised \"Four Major Cuisines\" are Chuan, Lu, Yue and Huaiyang, representing West, North, South and East China cuisine correspondingly. Modern \"Eight Cuisines\" of China are Anhui, Cantonese, Fujian, Hunan, Jiangsu, Shandong, Sichuan, and Zhejiang cuisines. Color, smell and taste are the three traditional aspects used to describe Chinese food, as well as the meaning, appearance and nutrition of the food. Cooking should be appraised from ingredients used, cuttings, cooking time and seasoning. It is considered inappropriate to use knives on the dining table. Chopsticks are the main eating utensils for Chinese food, which can be used to cut and pick up food.\n\nThe practice of drinking tea has a long history in China, having originated there. The history of tea in China is long and complex, for the Chinese have enjoyed tea for millennia. Scholars hailed the brew as a cure for a variety of ailments; the nobility considered the consumption of good tea as a mark of their status, and the common people simply enjoyed its flavour. In 2016, the discovery of the earliest known physical evidence of tea from the mausoleum of Emperor Jing of Han in Xi'an was announced, indicating that tea from the genus \"Camellia\" was drunk by Han dynasty emperors as early as 2nd century BC. Tea then became a popular drink in the Tang (618–907) and Song (960–1279) Dynasties.\n\nAlthough tea originated in China, during the Tang dynasty, Chinese tea generally represents tea leaves which have been processed using methods inherited from ancient China. According to popular legend, tea was discovered by Chinese Emperor Shen Nong in 2737 BCE when a leaf from a nearby shrub fell into water the emperor was boiling. Tea is deeply woven into the history and culture of China. The beverage is considered one of the seven necessities of Chinese life, along with firewood, rice, oil, salt, soy sauce and vinegar. Around 771 BC – 476 BC the Chinese tea is used for medicinal purposes.This period also known as the \"Spring and Autumn Period\", it is where Chinese people first enjoyed the juice extracted from the tea leaves that they chewed.Chinese Tea culture refers to how tea is prepared as well as the occasions when people consume tea in China. Tea culture in China differs from that in European countries like Britain and other Asian countries like Japan in preparation, taste, and occasion wherein it is consumed. Even today, tea is consumed regularly, both at casual and formal occasions. In addition to being a popular beverage, tea is used in traditional Chinese medicine, as well as in Chinese cuisine. Green tea is one of the main worldwide teas originating in China.\n\nImperial, royal and noble preference also plays a role in the change of Chinese cuisines. Because of imperial expansion and trading, ingredients and cooking techniques from other cultures are integrated into Chinese cuisines over time.The overwhelmingly large variety of Chinese cuisine comes mainly from the practice of dynastic period, when emperors would host banquets with over 100 dishes per meal. A countless number of imperial kitchen staff and concubines were involved in the food preparation process. Over time, many dishes became part of the everyday-citizen culture. Some of the highest quality restaurants with recipes close to the dynastic periods include Fangshan restaurant in Beihai Park Beijing and the Oriole Pavilion. Arguably all branches of Hong Kong eastern style are in some ways rooted from the original dynastic cuisines.\n\n\"Manhan Quanxi\", literally \"Manchu Han Imperial Feast\" was one of the grandest meals ever documented in Chinese cuisine. It consisted of at least 108 unique dishes from the Manchu and Han Chinese culture during the Qing dynasty, and it is only reserved and intended for the Emperors. The meal was held for three whole days, across six banquets. The culinary skills consisted of cooking methods from all over Imperial China. When the Manchus conquered China and founded the Qing dynasty, the Manchu and Han Chinese peoples struggled for power. The Kangxi Emperor wanted to resolve the disputes so he held a banquet during his 66th birthday celebrations. The banquet consisted of Manchu and Han dishes, with officials from both ethnic groups attending the banquet together. After the Wuchang Uprising, common people learned about the imperial banquet. The original meal was served in the Forbidden City in Beijing.\n\nChinese culture consists of many subcultures. In China, the cultural difference between adjacent provinces (and, in some cases, adjacent counties within the same province) can often be as big as than that between adjacent European nations. Thus, the concept of \"Han Chinese subgroups\" (漢族民系/汉族民系, literally \"Han ethnic lineage\") was born, used for classifying these subgroups within the greater Han ethnicity. These subgroups are, as a general rule, classified based on linguistic differences.\n\nUsing this linguistic classification, some of the well-known subcultures within China include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33955359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33955359", "title": "Classical tradition", "text": "Classical tradition\n\nThe Western classical tradition is the reception of classical Greco-Roman antiquity by later cultures, especially the post-classical West, involving texts, imagery, objects, ideas, institutions, monuments, architecture, cultural artifacts, rituals, practices, and sayings. Philosophy, political thought, and mythology are three major examples of how classical culture survives and continues to have influence. The West is one of a number of world cultures regarded as having a classical tradition, including the Indian, Chinese, Judaic, and Islamic traditions.\n\nThe study of the classical tradition differs from classical philology, which seeks to recover \"the meanings that ancient texts had in their original contexts.\" It examines both later efforts to uncover the realities of the Greco-Roman world and \"creative misunderstandings\" that reinterpret ancient values, ideas and aesthetic models for contemporary use. The classicist and translator Charles Martindale has defined the reception of classical antiquity as \"a two-way process … in which the present and the past are in dialogue with each other.\"\n\nThe beginning of a self-conscious classical tradition is usually located in the Renaissance, with the work of Petrarch in 14th-century Italy. Although Petrarch believed that he was recovering an unobstructed view of a classical past that had been obscured for centuries, the classical tradition in fact had continued uninterrupted during the Middle Ages. There was no single moment of rupture when the inhabitants of what was formerly the Roman Empire went to bed in antiquity and awoke in the medieval world; rather, the cultural transformation occurred over centuries. The use and meaning of the classical tradition may seem, however, to change dramatically with the emergence of humanism.\nThe phrase \"classical tradition\" is itself a modern label, articulated most notably in the post-World War II era with \"The Classical Tradition: Greek and Roman Influences on Western Literature\" of Gilbert Highet (1949) and \"The Classical Heritage and Its Beneficiaries\" of R. R. Bolgar (1954). The English word \"tradition,\" and with it the concept of \"handing down\" classical culture, derives from the Latin verb \"trado, tradere, traditus\", in the sense of \"hand over, hand down.\"\n\nWriters and artists influenced by the classical tradition may name their ancient models, or allude to their works. Often scholars infer classical influence through comparative methods that reveal patterns of thought. Sometimes authors' copies of Greek and Latin texts will contain handwritten annotations that offer direct evidence of how they read and understood their classical models; for instance, in the late 20th century the discovery of Montaigne's copy of Lucretius enabled scholars to document an influence that had long been recognized.\n\n"}
{"id": "24451177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24451177", "title": "Colombia in popular culture", "text": "Colombia in popular culture\n\nThe depiction of Colombia in popular culture, especially the portrayal of Colombian people in film and fiction, has been asserted by Colombian organizations and government to be largely negative and has raised concerns that it reinforces, or even engenders, societal prejudice and discrimination due to association with narco-trafficking, terrorism, illegal immigration and other criminal elements, poverty and welfare. The Colombian government-funded Colombia is Passion advertisement campaign as an attempt to improve Colombia's image abroad, with mixed results hoping for more positive views on Colombia.\n\nAside from the Colombia is passion campaign, Soccer has been known for being a major part in creating positive views as perhaps the most important to Colombians.\n\nFailings in the background research and the reproduction of the country are very common in films depicting Colombia. Some of these mistakes include showing Bogotá or Medellín as sylvatic or coastal regions, using Mexican or Puerto Rican actors (with noticeable accents), Mexican costumes, anachronisms and a general inaccuracy regarding the depiction of how the conflicts between government and drug-trading cartels work.\n\nSome examples of fictional Colombian settings are:\n\n\nThe mainstream of Colombian cinema follows the trend of the foreign cinema, depicting mostly narcotrafficking related issues, hit men stories, and films with a high content of poverty and human misery. Criticism of this type of film-making\nargued that these films did not treat their subject with profoundness, instead taking a superficial approach to the issues.\nSome examples are:\n\n\n\nTelevision in Colombia consists mostly of soap operas which are known in most countries of Latin America, the most famous and the one that had biggest reception by international audience was \"Yo Soy Betty, La Fea,\" which starred Ana Maria Orozco as Beatriz Aurora \"Betty\" Pinzon Solano and Jorge Enrique Abello as Armando Mendoza Saenz. The story was set in Bogota, Colombia and revolved around the relationship between the two main characters. The soap opera originally premiered in Colombia on October 25, 1999, but was later adapted from half-hour episodes to full-hour episodes that were shows in the United States. \"Yo Soy Betty, La Fea\" was adapted and remade in over 50 countries in many different languages including English, Japanese, and Chinese. The soap opera inspired the very popular American hit \"Ugly Betty.\"\n\nLately, there has been a rise in shows that portray drug dealing which have been controversial in the country because the characters are law breakers who are glorified; some examples are:\n\n\n\n\n\nAs consequence of the negative depiction of Colombia and the Colombian people, Colombians are often subject of prejudice and discrimination in several countries. some examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "30963584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30963584", "title": "Cultural consensus theory", "text": "Cultural consensus theory\n\nCultural consensus theory is an approach to information pooling (aggregation, data fusion) which supports a framework for the measurement and evaluation of beliefs as cultural; shared to some extent by a group of individuals. Cultural consensus models guide the aggregation of responses from individuals to estimate (1) the culturally appropriate answers to a series of related questions (when the answers are unknown) and (2) individual competence (cultural competence) in answering those questions. The theory is applicable when there is sufficient agreement across people to assume that a single set of answers exists. The agreement between pairs of individuals is used to estimate individual cultural competence. Answers are estimated by weighting responses of individuals by their competence and then combining responses.\n\nCultural consensus theory assumes that cultural beliefs are learned and shared across people and that there is a common understanding of what the world and society are all about. Since the amount of information in a culture is too large for any one individual to master, individuals know different subsets of the cultural knowledge and vary in their cultural competence. Cultural beliefs are beliefs held by a majority of culture members. Given a set of questions, on the same topic, shared cultural beliefs or norms regarding the answers can be estimated by aggregating the responses across a sample of culture members. When agreement is close to absolute, estimating answers is straightforward. The problem addressed by cultural consensus theory is how to estimate beliefs when there is some degree of heterogeneity present in responses. In general, cultural consensus theory provides a framework for determining whether responses are sufficiently homogeneous to estimate a single set of shared answers, and then estimating the answers and individual cultural competence in answering the questions.\n\nCultural consensus models do not create consensus or explain why consensus exists; they simply facilitate the discovery and description of possible consensus. A high degree of agreement among raters must be present in responses in order to use consensus theory – only with high agreement does it make sense to aggregate responses to estimate beliefs of the group. Although there are statistical methods to evaluate whether agreement among raters is greater than chance (Binomial test, Friedman test, or Kendall’s coefficient of concordance), these methods do not provide a best estimate of the “true” answers nor do they estimate competence of the raters. Cultural consensus theory is able to estimate competence from the agreement between subjects and then, answers are estimated by “weighting” individual responses by competence prior to aggregation.\n\nA very important feature in the aggregation of responses is that the combined responses of individuals will be more accurate than the responses of each individual included in the aggregation. Reliability theory in psychology (specifically, the reliability coefficient and the Spearman–Brown prediction formula) provides a mathematical estimate of the accuracy or validity of aggregated responses from the number of units being combined and the level of agreement among the units. In this case, accuracy of aggregated responses can be calculated from the number of subjects and the average Pearson correlation coefficient between all pairs of subjects (across questions).\n\nTo use cultural consensus theory, at least three assumptions must be met:\n\nCultural consensus theory encompasses formal and informal models. Practically speaking, these models are often used to estimate cultural beliefs, including the degree to which individuals report such beliefs. The formal cultural consensus model models the decision-making process for answering questions. This version is limited to categorical-type responses: multiple-choice type questions (including those with dichotomous true/false or yes/no responses) and responses to open-ended questions (with a single word or short phrase response for each question). This version of the model has a series of additional assumptions that must be met, i.e., no response bias. The formal model has direct parallels in signal detection theory and latent class analysis. An informal version of the model is available as a set of analytic procedures and obtains similar information with fewer assumptions. The informal model parallels a factor analysis on people (without rotation) and thus has similarities to Q factor analysis (as in Q Methodology). The informal version of the model can accommodate interval estimates and ranked response data. Both approaches provide estimates of the culturally correct answers and estimates of individual differences in the accuracy of reported information. \n\nOne specific method of the formal version used in the analysis of data is the mathematical model, which is a set of logical axioms as well as derived propositions and assumptions that explain how empirical variables fit in the model's parameters. The informal model, on the other hand, uses reliability analysis.\n\nCultural competence is estimated from the similarity in responses between pairs of subjects since the agreement between a pair of respondents is a function of their individual competencies. In the formal model, similarity is the probability that matched responses occur (match method. or the probability of particular response combinations occur (covariance method). Simple match or covariance measures are then corrected for guessing and the proportion of positive responses, respectively. In the informal model, similarity is calculated with a Pearson correlation coefficient.\n\nA matrix of agreement coefficients between all pairs of subjects is then factored with a minimum residual factoring method (principal axis factoring without rotation) to solve for the unknown competence values on the main diagonal. (For the informal model, the maximum likelihood factor analysis algorithm is preferred, but principal axis factoring can be used as well.) To determine whether the solution meets cultural consensus criteria, that only a single factor is present, a goodness of fit rule is used. If the ratio of the first to second eigenvalues is large with subsequently small values and all first factor loadings are positive, then it is assumed that the data contain only a single factor or a single response pattern.\n\nIndividual competence values are used to weight the responses and estimate the culturally correct answers. In the formal model, a confidence level (Bayesian adjusted probabilities) is obtained for each answer from the pattern of responses and the individual competence scores. In the informal model, responses are also weighted, using a linear model. When factoring a correlation matrix, the estimated answers appear as the first set of factor scores. Also, note that factor scores are usually provided as standardized variables (mean of zero), but may be transformed back to your original data collection units.\n\nWhen used as a method for analysis, the cultural consensus theory allows the following: the determination whether the observed variability in knowledge is cultural; the measurement of cultural competence that each individual possesses; and, the determination of culturally correct knowledge.\n\nCultural Consensus analyses may be performed with software applications. The formal consensus model is currently only available in the software packages ANTHROPAC or UCINET. Analysis procedures for the informal model are available in most statistical packages. The informal model can be run within a factor analysis procedure, requesting the minimum-residual (principal axis factoring) algorithm method that solves for the missing diagonal without rotation. However, when factor analysis is used for consensus applications, ~~the data must be transposed, so that questions are the unit of analysis (the rows in a data matrix) and people are the variables~~ (the columns in the data matrix).\n\nAn advantage of cultural consensus is the availability of necessary sample size information and that necessary sample sizes do not need to be very large. Sample size determination in a consensus analysis is similar to other types of analyses; namely, that when variability is low, power is high and small samples will suffice. Here, variability is the agreement (competence) among subjects. For the formal model, sample size can be estimated from the level of agreement (e.g., assuming a low average competence level of .50), the proportion of items to be correctly classified (assuming a high level, .95), and high confidence (.999) a minimum sample size of 29 (per subgroup) is necessary.[1,5] For higher levels of competence and lower levels of accuracy and confidence, smaller samples sizes are necessary. Similarly, sample size can be estimated with reliability theory and the Spearman–Brown prophecy formula (applied to people instead of items). For a relatively low level of agreement (an average correlation of .25 between people, comparable to an average competence of .50) and a high degree of desired validity (.95 correlation between the estimated answers and the true answers), a study would require a minimum sample size of 30 subjects.\n\nIn summary, cultural consensus theory offers a framework for estimating cultural beliefs. A formal model is based on the decision-making process model of how questions are answered (with parameters for competence, response bias and guessing). The model proceeds from axioms and uses mathematical proofs to arrive at estimates of competence and answers to a series of questions. The informal model is a set of statistical procedures that provides similar information. Given a series of related questions, the agreement between people’s reported answers is used to estimate their cultural competence. Cultural competence is how much an individual knows or shares group beliefs. Since the extraction of individual competencies depends upon having a single factor solution, the ratio of the first and second eigenvalues (> 3:1) serves as a goodness-of-fit indicator that a single factor is present in the pattern of responses. Culturally correct answers are estimated by weighting and combining individuals’ responses.\n\n"}
{"id": "48196317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48196317", "title": "Cárcel Hill, Valparaíso", "text": "Cárcel Hill, Valparaíso\n\nCárcel Hill (\"Cerro Cárcel\") is one of the 42 hills of Valparaíso, Chile. It is the site of the city's old infamous prison, which has now been turned into an urban cultural center.\n"}
{"id": "23169922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23169922", "title": "Diablada puneña", "text": "Diablada puneña\n\nDiablada puneña is a variation of the dance known as diablada performed in the region of Puno, Peru. The origin of this dance is a matter of dispute between Peru and Bolivia, because both nations celebrate the Diablada with similar music, songs, and clothing.\n\nThe \"Diablada puneña\" is part of an Andean theatrical repertoire that began during the Spanish colonization of South America in order to teach the local natives the precepts of Christian faith and history of the Spanish Empire. The Diablada causes a reform in the thinking of the indigenous altiplano cultures as missionaries from Spain, instilled the paradigm of good and evil, which is how the costumes of angels and demons became associated with the dance.\n\nAccording to Diego Gonzáles Holguín, the missionaries taught the natives a representation of the seven deadly sins and the triumph of the angels over the demons. In Puno, this is a special dance which was recovered from the past along with the Diablada in Oruro.\n\nIn 1577, the Jesuits settled in Juli, Puno. During festivities, they performed theatre plays, comedies and actos sacramentales.\n\nThe Juli Jesuits taught the natives a song-dance about the seven capital sins and how the angels beat the demons, in order to indoctrinate the locals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1446834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1446834", "title": "Diatonic set theory", "text": "Diatonic set theory\n\nDiatonic set theory is a subdivision or application of musical set theory which applies the techniques and insights of discrete mathematics to properties of the diatonic collection such as maximal evenness, Myhill's property, well formedness, the deep scale property, cardinality equals variety, and structure implies multiplicity. The name is something of a misnomer as the concepts involved usually apply much more generally, to any periodically repeating scale.\n\nMusic theorists working in diatonic set theory include Eytan Agmon, Gerald J. Balzano, Norman Carey, David Clampitt, John Clough, Jay Rahn, and mathematician Jack Douthett. A number of key concepts were first formulated by David Rothenberg, who published in the journal \"Mathematical Systems Theory\", and Erv Wilson, working entirely outside of the academic world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23256368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23256368", "title": "Die You Zombie Bastards!", "text": "Die You Zombie Bastards!\n\nDie You Zombie Bastards! is a 2005 American zombie comedy directed by Caleb Emerson, written by Emerson and Haig Demarjian, and starring Tim Gerstmar, Geoff Mosher, and Pippi Zornoza. It is about a serial killer (Gerstmar) who must save his cannibal wife Violet (Zornoza) from zombies animated by Baron Nefarious (Mosher).\n\nSerial killer Red Toole is married to Violet. After a night of killing innocent people, Red comes home to find that Violet has given him a gift: a superhero outfit made out of human skin. Red's joy is cut short when Baron Nefarious kidnaps Violet. Red puts on his superhero outfit and sets off to rescue his wife before she is turned into a mindless zombie.\n\n\nThe film was shot in Providence, Rhode Island. Production began while Emerson was still in film school and continued after his graduation.\n\nNotable Film Festival screenings include:\n\nThe film was released on DVD in January 16, 2007.\n\nBill Gibron of Pop Matters wrote that the film \"is so expertly realized, so perfectly set within its own insular world that it's not long before you forget all the movie type muck-ups and simply enjoy the entertainment being offered.\" Bloody Disgusting rated the film 4/5 stars and wrote, \"I for one have never been so shocked, disgusted, and strangely turned on by a film in all my life.\" Steve Barton of Dread Central rated it 3/5 stars and called it an absurd film similar to Troma's golden age of gratuitous violence and nudity. Michael Ferraro of Film Threat rated it 2.5/5 stars and called it an unfocused film similar to a sub-par Troma release. David Cornelius of DVD Talk rated it 1/5 stars and called it a Troma-inspired film that is an unwatchable mess. Writing in \"\", Glenn Kay called it \"a rotten lowball effort\" whose gags are \"juvenile and tasteless\". Peter Dendle, who wrote \"The Zombie Movie Encyclopedia, Volume 2\", called it \"ultra-camp shlock in the Troma tradition\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1618182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1618182", "title": "Dilemma", "text": "Dilemma\n\nA dilemma ( \"double proposition\") is a problem offering two possibilities, neither of which is unambiguously acceptable or preferable. The possibilities are termed the \"horns\" of the dilemma, a clichéd usage, but distinguishing the dilemma from other kinds of predicament as a matter of usage.\n\nThe dilemma is sometimes used as a rhetorical device. Its isolation as textbook material has been attributed to Hermogenes of Tarsus in his work \"On Invention\". C. S. Peirce gave a definition of \"dilemmatic argument\" as any argument relying on excluded middle.\n\nIn the form \"you must accept either A, or B\"; here A and B would be propositions each leading to some further conclusion, and applied incorrectly, it constitutes a false dichotomy, that is, a fallacy. Traditional usage distinguished the dilemma as a \"horned syllogism\" from the sophism that attracted the Latin name \"cornutus\". The original use of the word \"horns\" in English has been attributed to Nicholas Udall in his 1548 book \"Paraphrases\", translating from the Latin term \"cornuta interrogatio\".\n\nIn propositional logic, \"dilemma\" is applied to a group of rules of inference, which are in themselves valid rather than fallacious. They each have three premises, and include the constructive dilemma and destructive dilemma. Such arguments can be refuted by showing that the disjunctive premise — the \"horns of the dilemma\" — does not in fact hold, because it presents a false dichotomy. You are asked to accept \"A or B\", but counter by showing that is not all. Successfully undermining that premise is called \"escaping through the horns of the dilemma\".\n\nDilemmatic reasoning has been attributed to Melissus of Samos, a Presocratic philosopher whose works survive in fragmentary form, making the origins of the technique in philosophy imponderable. It was established with Diodorus Cronus (died c. 284 BCE). The paradoxes of Zeno of Elea were reported by Aristotle in dilemma form, but that may have been to conform with what Plato said about Zeno's style.\n\nIn cases where two moral principles appear to be inconsistent, an actor has a dilemma in terms of which principle to follow. This kind of moral case study is attributed to Cicero, in book III of his \"De Officiis\". In the Christian tradition of casuistry, an approach to abstract ranking of principles introduced by Bartolomé de Medina in the 16th century became tainted with the accusation of laxism, as did casuistry itself. Another approach, with legal roots, is to lay emphasis on particular features present in a given case: in other words, the exact framing of the dilemma.\n\n"}
{"id": "5178476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5178476", "title": "Drama school", "text": "Drama school\n\nA drama school, stage school or theatre school is an undergraduate and/or graduate school or department at a college or university; or a free-standing institution (such as the Drama section at the Juilliard School); which specializes in the pre-professional training in drama and theatre arts, such as acting, design and technical theatre, arts administration, and related subjects. If the drama school is part of a degree-granting institution, undergraduates typically take a Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fine Arts, or, occasionally, Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Design. Graduate students may take a Master of Arts, Master of Science, Master of Fine Arts, Doctor of Arts, Doctor of Fine Arts, or Doctor of Philosophy degree.\n\nEntry to drama school is usually through a competitive audition process. Some schools make this a two-stage process. Places on an acting course are limited (usually well below 100) so those who fare best at the audition are selected. Most academies state that applicants must be over 18 years of age.\nAuditions usually involve the performance of monologues and group workshops, and may also include a singing activity. This varies from academy to academy. If this is the case for an acting degree, the school looks more at how an applicant can put character into the song rather than how well they can sing. For a musical theatre degree, the emphasis is on showing one's talent as a singer. Most colleges offer callback auditions, often in several stages, in which students being considered for entry onto a course are brought back to audition again, demonstrating their talents further. It is also possible to get into a drama school by previous grades. Some auditioners may be under 18.\n\nThe courses offered by drama schools focus on practical courses, rather than theoretical classes. Their aim is to train students as professional actors for stage (theatre or musical theatre) and camera-based work (film and television shows). Students are required to be enthusiastic and motivated in order to meet the demands of the program. At the beginning of the final year (usually the third), most drama schools stage a series of performances throughout the academic year to which agents and casting directors are invited. This helps to build the future of the graduates and serves as a showcase of what the students can do.\n\nIn 1833 the actress Frances Maria Kelly managed the Royal Strand Theatre where she funded and operated a dramatic school, the earliest record of a drama school in England. In the UK The Conference of Drama Schools comprises Britain’s 22 leading Drama Schools. CDS exists in order to strengthen the voice of the member schools, to set and maintain the highest standards of training within the vocational drama sector, and to make it easier for prospective students to understand the range of courses on offer and the application process. Founded in 1969, the 22 member schools offer courses in Acting, Musical Theatre, Directing and Technical Theatre training. Graduates of CDS courses are currently working on stage, in front of the camera and behind the scenes in theatres and studios across Britain. In September 2016, Midlands Academy of Musical Theatre opened in Birmingham. Offering West End quality training in Musical Theatre to students aged 18+, and with the same or better opportunities as many London drama schools, they offer a regional option for prospective drama school students. In 2012 it was merged with the National Council for Drama Training to create a single national authority Drama UK responsible for both the provision of Drama Training and accreditation of official courses. In 2017 Drama UK was replaced by the Federation of Drama Schools.\n\nIn the UK, funding varies from drama school to drama school. Historically drama schools were not part of the mainstream academic system, and therefore were not funded on the same basis as universities. Some drama schools are now part of a university, such as Guildhall School of Music and Drama, which is part of the City University of London, and Rose Bruford College of Theatre and Performance, which is part of the University of Manchester, and these tend to charge similar tuition fees to universities. Student loans, drama awards and scholarships may help to provide students with their funding.\nThe most prominent funding scheme for performing arts education in the UK are the Dance and Drama Awards. This is a government scheme which subsidises the training offered at a selection of the leading performing arts schools in the fields of dance, drama, musical theatre and stage management.\n\nA number of third level institutions provide courses in Drama and Theatre Studies, including Trinity College, Dublin, NUI Maynooth, and Dublin City University. A decision by Trinity in Jan 2007 to drop its BA in Acting Studies for cost reasons met with disappointment from the theatre sector. A Forum for Acting Training was convened with leading professionals from the industry who recommended in a report published 27 May 2008, that an Academy for Dramatic Arts, independent of a University, but with third level accreditation should be created. The report was submitted to the Irish Government. On 1 August 2008, The Irish Times reported that a RADA graduate, Danielle Ryan, granddaughter of the late Tony Ryan who founded Ryanair, had announced plans to develop an Irish Academy of Dramatic Arts part-funded from a Trust created by her late father, Captain Cathal Ryan.\n\nThis plan went ahead and the academy, known as The Lir, opened in September 2011. The Lir is part of Trinity College and is situated in the Grand Canal Dock area. It is officially associated with RADA.\n\n"}
{"id": "8676342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8676342", "title": "Embodied music cognition", "text": "Embodied music cognition\n\nEmbodied music cognition is a direction within systematic musicology interested in studying the role of the human body in relation to all musical activities.\n\nIt considers the human body as the natural mediator between mind (focused on musical intentions, meanings, significations) and physical environment (containing musical sound and other types of energy that affords human action).\n\nGiven the impact of body movement on musical meaning formation and signification, the musical mind is said to be embodied. Embodiment assumes that what happens in the mind is depending on properties of the body, such as kinaesthetic properties.\n\nEmbodied music cognition tends to see music perception as based on action. For example, many people move when they listen to music. Through movement, it is assumed that people give meaning to music. This type of meaning-formation is corporeal, rather than cerebral because it is understood through the body. This is different from a disembodied approach to music cognition, which sees musical meaning as being based on a perception-based analysis of musical structure. The embodied grounding of music perception is based on a multi-modal encoding of auditory information and on principles that ensure the coupling of perception and action.\n\nDuring the last decade, research in embodied music cognition \nhas been strongly motivated by a demand for new tools in view of the interactive possibilities offered by digital media technology.\n\nWith the advent of powerful computing tools, and in particular real-time interactive music systems, gradually more attention has been devoted to the role of gesture in music. This musical gestures research has been rather influential in that it puts more emphasis on\nsensorimotor feedback and integration, as well as on the coupling\nof perception and action. With new sensor technology, gesture-based research has meanwhile become a vast domain of music research, with consequences for the methodological and epistemological foundations of music cognition research.\n\nThe scientific apparatus draws upon an empirical and evidence-based methodology, which is based on measurement of sound (via audio-recording), human movement (via video-recording, kinematic recording), human biology (via bioparameter-recording) and semantics (via questionnaires). Using a scientific apparatus for measurement, statistical analysis and computational modelling, embodied music cognition aims to build up reliable knowledge about the role of the human body in meaning formation.\n\nResearch in embodied music cognition has a strong connection with technology development, more particularly, in fields related to interactive music systems, and music information retrieval. Mediation technology is the technology by which the human body, and consequently also the human mind, can be given an extension in the digital musical domain.\n\nCartesian dualism had a tremendous impact on cognitive science and in particular on cognitive musicology. Influenced by Gestalt psychology, music cognition research of the last decades of the 20th Century was mainly focusing on the perception of structure, that is, the perception of pitch, melody, rhythm, harmony and tonality. It considered music perception as a faculty on its own, completely dissociated from musical action. Instead, in studies on embodied musical activity (such as listening and music performance), subjects are invited to actively engage in the signification process. This engagement is articulated by means of corporeal expression which can be measured, analyzed, modelled and related to the musical stimulus. René Descartes' idea that mental activity is of a separate order from body movement is refuted and, in fact reversed.\n\nThe difference with the traditional phenomenological and hermeneutic approaches to musical meaning formation is that embodied music cognition has a focus on an empirical and evidence-based methodology, rather than on subjective first-person descriptions. Embodied music cognition aims at giving a full account of the subjective involvement by taking into account the role of the social-cultural context, subjective background (involving gender, age, familiarity with music, degree of music education).\n\nEmbodied music cognition adopts a scientific methodology but its aim is not to reduce music to physics, nor to reduce gesture and embodied meaning to the biomechanics of the human body. Instead, embodied music cognition fully recognizes the contribution of all mental and bodily systems including subjective feelings, emotions and coinaesthetic (or body image) awareness.\n\n\nGodøy, Rolf, y Marc Leman, eds. (2010): \"Musical gestures : sound, movement, and meaning\", New York: Routledge.\n\nLeman, Marc (2007): \"Embodied Music Cognition and Mediation Technology\", Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press.\n\nLópez Cano, Rubén (2003): “Setting the body in music. Gesture, Schemata and Stylistic-Cognitive Types”. \"International Conference on Music and Gesture University of East Anglia\" 28–31 August 2003. (available on line)\n\nLópez Cano, Rubén (2006). “What kind of affordances are musical affordances? A semiotic approach”. Paper presented at \"L’ascolto musicale: condotte, pratiche, grammatiche\". Bologna 23–25 February 2006. (available on line)\n\nLópez Cano, Rubén (2008). “Che tipo di affordances sono le affordances musicali? Una prospettiva semiotica”. En Daniele Barbieri, Luca Marconi e Francesco Spampinato (eds.). \"L'ascolto: condotte, pratiche, grammatiche\". Lucca: LIM. pp. 43–54.\n\nMatyja, J. R. (2016). Embodied Music Cognition: Trouble Ahead, Trouble Behind. Frontiers in Psychology, 7. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2016.01891\n\nReybrouck, Mark. (2001a). “Biological roots of musical epistemology: Functional Cycles, Umwelt, and enactive listening”. \"Semiotica\", 134 (1-4): 599-633.\n\nReybrouck, Mark. (2001b). \"Musical Imagery between Sensory Processing and Ideomotor Simulation\". En \"Musical Imagery\", eds. I. Godøy y H.Jörgensen, 117-136, Lisse: Swets & Zeitlinger.\n\nReybrouck, Mark. (2005a). “A Biosemiotic and Ecological Approach to Music Cognition: Event Perception between Auditory Listening and Cognitive Economy”. \"Axiomathes. An International Journal in Ontology and Cognitive Systems\", 15 (2): 229-266.\n\nReybrouck, Mark. (2005b.) “Body, mind and music: musical semantics between experiential cognition and cognitive economy”. \"TRANS\" 9. (available on line)\n\nZbikowski, Lawrence. (2002): \"Conceptualizing Music: Cognitive Structure, Theory, and Analysis.\" Oxford University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "16535078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16535078", "title": "Encyclopedia Rizaliana", "text": "Encyclopedia Rizaliana\n\nThe Encyclopedia Rizaliana is one of the more recent subject-specific encyclopedias in the English language. As the name suggests, it concerned with the life and works of Dr. Jose Protasio Rizal, the Philippines' founding father. The contributors' entries were subjected to the scrutiny of others who are experts in the somewhat narrowly defined field of Rizaline Studies, nevertheless the peer review process involved an international community of Rizaliana experts who are qualified and able to perform impartial review.\n\nThe maiden one-volume edition (2008) of the encyclopedia has about 700 articles, many of them of the short-entry variety (100 words or less) but some running to considerable length (the \"comics by and about Rizal\" article is over 300 words long with illustrations). The work's coverage of Philippine and world geography and history may be considered too short and pales in comparison to the works of Ambeth Ocampo. Written by nine contributors, the \"Rizaliana\" includes over 900 index entries, 150 cross-references, tables, maps, and black-and-white line art and color images. The contributors feel that they need not sign their specific contributions, and the references were incorporated within the articles.\n\nThe general editor, Prof. Jose Fadul, a U.P. Diliman graduate currently based at the De La Salle-College of Saint Benilde, was responsible for the general format of the work. He has also contributed substantially to the project itself. A review made mention that \"the contributors, except for two or three, as virtually unknown in the academic field.\" A number of other Rizal scholars and Rizalists were earlier invited and agreed to contribute, but they had died just months before the \"Encyclopedia Rizaliana\" project formally commenced.\n\nThe earlier online version of the \"Encyclopedia Rizaliana\", first introduced in June 1998 through Homestead Technologies, ceased to exist in 2002. This online version, like the latter print, is designed for high school and first-year college students along with public library users in Metro Manila. It was once available to some libraries as a CD-ROM intended for college students, with an accompanying workbook for the Course in Rizal.\n\nCurrently, \"Encyclopedia Rizaliana\" is printed and bound by the Lulu Press, (a transnational company offering print-on-demand publishing and online order fulfillment) in paperback student edition and in casewrap-hardcover binding (i.e., a coffee-table edition). Copies of the two editions of the book were out as early December, 2007 but they were post-dated 2008. The cover is a photo-mosaic of a popular portrait of Rizal. The two said editions are also sold as downloadable PDF files.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9295770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9295770", "title": "Festivals (book)", "text": "Festivals (book)\n\nFestivals is a 1973 anthology of festival-related folklore from around the world that have been compiled by Ruth Manning-Sanders. According to the book's dust jacket, \"This potpourri of festivals reveals fascinating customs and celebrations from many countries of the world. Each special day is preceded by background material on the origins of the holiday.\"\n\nSome of the special days covered are (using Manning-Sanders' words and spellings): New Year's Day, Saint Bride's Day, the Japanese Snow Festival, Saint Valentine's Day, Saint Patrick's Day, Shrove Tuesday, Mardi Gras, Easter Day, All Fools' Day, the Bright Weather Festival, Saint George's Day, May Day, the Padstow Hobby Horse, Independence Day, Michaelmas Day, Saint Crispin's Day, Hallow E'en, the Fifth of November, Hogmanay, and Christmas.\n\nFor many of the festivals, the book includes the writings of some famous authors or historical personalities. Among those included in the book are Robert Herrick, Fiona Macleod, Marco Polo, John Donne, Sir Charles Lyall, Norman Hunter, Chiang Yee, Flora Thompson, Laurie Lee, Laura Ingalls Wilder, Dylan Thomas, William Shakespeare, Richard Cobbold, P. L. Travers, Oliver Herford, Alison Uttley, Richard Crashaw, Jon and Rumer Godden, and Alfred Tennyson.\n\nEditor Manning-Sanders, a poet and author who was perhaps best known for her series of children's books in which she collected and retold fairy tales, contributes four pieces to this book:\n\n"}
{"id": "8248363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8248363", "title": "Flying while Muslim", "text": "Flying while Muslim\n\nFlying while Muslim or Muslim while flying is an expression referring to the problems Muslim passengers can face on airplanes, during stopovers or in airports in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks. It is constructed in an analogy to the older expression driving while black, which similarly satirizes racial profiling of African Americans by police and other law enforcement.\n\nAn early usage of the phrase is dated mid-September 2001. \n\nThe issue was brought to media attention in 2006 when six Muslim imams were removed from a US Airways flight after they allegedly engaged in suspicious behavior reminiscent of that of the 9/11 hijackers. \n\nIn 2009 AirTran Airways removed nine Muslim passengers, including three children, from a flight and turned them over to the FBI after one of the men commented to another that they were sitting right next to the engines and wondered aloud where the safest place to sit on the plane was. Although the FBI subsequently cleared the passengers and called the incident a \"misunderstanding\", AirTran refused to seat the passengers on another flight, forcing them to purchase last minute tickets on another airline that had been secured with the FBI's assistance. A spokesman for AirTran initially defended the airline's actions and said they would not reimburse the passengers for the cost of the new tickets. Although the men had traditional beards and the women headscarves, AirTran denied that their actions were based on the passengers' appearance. The following day, after the incident received widespread media coverage, AirTran reversed its position and issued a public apology, adding that it would in fact reimburse the passengers for the cost of their rebooked tickets.\n\nOn November 18, 2015, in two separate incidents, passengers at Midway Airport were allegedly not permitted to fly aboard Southwest Airlines flights when other passengers claimed to be afraid to fly with them because they were speaking Arabic, or appeared to be Muslim. The refusal sparked widespread condemnation on the airline's social media pages and received prominent coverage, in the US and internationally, accompanied by calls for a boycott of the airline. According to \"The Economist\", \"in the two Southwest cases, it was the passengers themselves conducting their own vigilante profiling; the airline was merely bowing to their demands.\"\n\nOn April 6, 2016, Southwest Airlines removed a passenger from a flight at Los Angeles International Airport for speaking Arabic before pushback. The FBI detained the passenger, searched his belongings and questioned him for several hours. A Southwest spokesperson declined to apologize and defended Southwest's decisions by saying \"We will not be apologizing for following our obligation to adhere to established procedures\". The passenger, Khairuldeen Makhzoomi, an Iraqi refugee, later said that those actions were \"playing straight into the rhetoric of the Islamic State—they fall into the trap\" and, \"That is when I couldn't handle it and my eyes began to water ... the way they searched me and the dogs, the officers, people were watching me and the humiliation made me so afraid because it brought all of these memories back to me. I escaped Iraq because of the war, because of Saddam and what he did to my father.\"\n\nOn April 15, 2016, Southwest removed a Muslim passenger from a flight at Midway Airport after she traded seats with several other passengers. A spokesperson from the Council on American–Islamic Relations called on Southwest to explain their actions and the passenger's husband said \"She was humiliated because of her religion and the way she dressed\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3612199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3612199", "title": "Formula composition", "text": "Formula composition\n\nFormula composition is a serially derived technique encountered principally in the music of Karlheinz Stockhausen, involving the projection, expansion, and \"Ausmultiplikation\" of either a single melody-formula, or a two- or three-voice contrapuntal construction (sometimes stated at the outset).\n\nIn contrast to serial music, where the structuring features are more or less abstract and remain largely inaccessible to the listener's ear, in formula composition the musical specifications of pitch, dynamics, duration, timbre, and tempo are always directly evident in the sound, through the use of a concisely articulated melodic tone succession, the formula, which defines the large-scale form as well as all the internal musical details of the composition .\n\nThough foreshadowed in Stockhausen's once-withdrawn \"Formel\" (\"Formula\") of 1951, the technique made its first appearance in \"Mantra\" in 1970, and became the central focus of Stockhausen's music up to 2003. Stockhausen's mammoth opera cycle \"Licht\" is based on a three-strand \"super-formula\".\n\nHermann identifies two kinds of formula composition in Stockhausen’s works prior to \"Licht\": formula compositions in which the form results from projection of the formula, . . . [and] works in which melodies in themselves possess many internal characteristics of formulas, but where the formal idea itself does not originate from the formula(s) used in their realisation\n\nWorks of the first type include \"Mantra\" (1970), \"\" (1973–74), \"Jubiläum\" (1977), and \"In Freundschaft\" (1977); works of the second type comprise \"Alphabet für Liège\" (1972), the “Laub und Regen” duet from \"Herbstmusik\" (1974), \"Musik im Bauch\" (1975), \"Harlekin\" (1975), \"Der kleine Harlekin\" (1975), and \"Sirius\" (1975–77). Other works from the 1970s, such as \"Sternklang\" (1971), \"Trans\" (1971), \"Ylem\" (1972), the first three parts of \"Herbstmusik\", \"Atmen gibt das Leben\" (1974/76–77), \"Tierkreis\" (1974–75), and \"Amour\" (1976) do not employ formula technique, according to Conen, though the composer includes \"Atmen gibt das Leben\" amongst the works composed using \"formula complexes\" .\n\nPierre Boulez describes his composition \"Rituel, in memoriam Bruno Maderna\" (1975) as a \"ceremony of memory\", based on \"numerous repetitions of the same formulas\", and it has been seen as an analogue to Stockhausen's formula compositions—especially to \"Inori\", because of the shared ritual character of the two compositions .\n\nYork Höller, who studied with Stockhausen in 1971–72, uses a similar method, which he names \"Klanggestalt\" (literally, \"sound-shape\"), and at least one writer has used the expression \"formula composition\" to describe it . Finbar O'Súilleabháin, however, while accepting there are parallels between the techniques in Höller's opera \"The Master and Margarita\" (1984–85) and Stockhausen's \"Licht\" cycle (1977–2003), concludes that Höller's conception is \"perfectly distinct\" .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52806857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52806857", "title": "Freie Berliner Kunstausstellung", "text": "Freie Berliner Kunstausstellung\n\nThe Freie Berliner Kunstausstellung (FBK), the “Free Berlin Art Exhibition” in Berlin (Germany), was “unique in its structure”. For 24 years, from 1971 to 1995, it was the only non-juried art exhibition of its size in Europe. It opened after the \"Große Berliner Kunstausstellung\", the “Grand Berlin Art Exhibition”, a juried art exhibition, had closed its doors. Supported by the Senate of Berlin, an association, called the \"Freie Berliner Kunstausstellung\" was registered in 1970 with the goal to organize annual exhibitions. Hans-Joachim Zeidler became chairperson of this association for the first four years, followed by Ernst Leonhardt (Artist). During the association's last four years, Karin Rech took over the leadership.\n\nThe first \"FBK\" took place in the exhibition halls at the Funkturm Berlin in 1971. At that time, the so-called Counterculture of the 1960s movement was already in full swing. The unrest of this period had inspired many social groups, and artists as well were “woken up”, as Zeidler reported in his review in 1983. Already at its beginning, the \"FBK\" was able to “look back on a Berlin tradition that was dating back to the Weimar Republic.” However, early evidence of non-juried art exhibitions points to the 19th century. A poster collection at the Germanisches Nationalmuseum contains a poster by Ludwig von Hofmann. The draft of this poster – which he had originally designed in 1893 for the first \"Große Berliner Kunstausstellung\" – was rejected. The portrayal of a “sparsely clad young man was apparently seen as an offense and was removed by the Berlin police, according to contemporary reports.” As some artists had been rejected by the jury of the \"Große Berliner Kunstausstellung\", a second exhibition, which had called itself \"FBK\", was organized, running concurrently with the \"Große Berliner Kunstausstellung\". Its location was close by, across the road at the Moltke Bridge. It accepted Ludwig von Hofmann's poster. Käthe Kollwitz, who was still an unknown artist at that time, exhibited in 1895 in the \"FBK\" which had always been seen as an alternative to the juried art exhibitions.\n\nIn addition to these early historical roots, the \"Non-Juried Art Exhibition\" featured a direct predecessor in 1965, as mentioned in the archives of the \"Association of Female Artists of Berlin\". After the \"FBK\" had presented its first exhibition in 1971, it took 12 years for an acting mayor of Berlin to officially comment on the exhibition. Such comments had been anticipated for years. In 1983 Richard von Weizsäcker was the first mayor who was willing to write words of acknowledgement. Since then greetings from the acting mayor of Berlin became a tradition.\n\nFor the first time in 1990, after what was called Die Wende – after the fall of the Berlin Wall but before German reunification – Walter Momper, mayor of Berlin at that time, congratulated the FBK, hoping for “satisfied artists and many interested visitors from East and West”. In 1991 the time had come to announce: “The 21st FBK is finally a free exhibition for all artists of Berlin.”\n\nFrom the very beginning, the “fiercely controversial but hotly loved” FBK faced criticism, sometimes there was even harsh rejection. The critics turned against the concept of a non-juried exhibition, as well as the inclusion of anyone who wanted to exhibit. This allowed “young, unknown, perhaps also ‘not so good’ artists, such as hobby artists, to participate.” Many rejected this concept. Leonhardt pointed out the “charm of the FBK” and stressed that for some it was “a spring-board to a great career”. For Nicole Bröhan, the “always controversial mixture of professional and amateur artists […] created its special appeal”. In 1994 she wrote in the Berliner Zeitung that she saw the FBK as “talent forging”. Despite all the positive reports, the FBK's continued existence was always at risk. “What a triumph! The FBK, which is dead at least once every year, will turn 25. Who would have thought?” With these words, Ernst Leonhardt, meanwhile honorary chairman of the association, began his review at the FBK's 25th anniversary. He could not know at that time that, due to the financial situation, it would be the last opening of the FBK. For that exhibition to take place at all, there was an “art auction during which 1,000 works donated by Berlin artists were auctioned off” – “in order to support the exhibition”.\n\nUnlike the usual concepts of exhibitions, the goal of the FBK was for the artists themselves, not professional gallery owners or curators, to take over management and organization of the exhibition, as well as the hanging of the art works. A jury did not exist. Organizer of the exhibitions was the registered association of the FBK. The management of the exhibitions was led by the respective chairperson of the association, while the organizational aspects were handled by a group of seven members. The preparation and execution of the exhibitions was coordinated by the \"Colleagues of the Management\". As a rule, the FBK took place in the second quarter of each year. Around Christmas the year before, registration forms were sent to the artists.\n\nTwo divisions were set up, a \"Free Division\" and a division for groups. The former consisted of professional artists only, the latter of non-professional artists who joined as groups. Among the many exhibiting artist groups were diverse artist associations, as well as students from the Berlin University of the Arts, which regularly exhibited as a large group of their own.\n\nThe usually not conflict-free process of hanging the art work was organized based on its own concept. A “Hanging Commission” was set up for the \"Free Division\". It was the commission's responsibility to find a suitable place for about 1,200 works of art within three days. The groups were each assigned a location appropriate to their size in which they arranged the hanging themselves.\n\nTwo-thirds of the exhibitors were professional artists, one third ‘hobby artists’. At the 20th anniversary of the exhibition, the chairman expressed satisfaction that the \"Free Division\" and the groups were now “finally equal” in the allocation of space. Among the celebrities of the exhibitors were Louise Rösler, Walter Stöhrer, Fred Thieler and Jürgen Draeger. The latter presented on his website several cover pages of the catalogs. While for almost 20 years male artists were overrepresented, the gender distribution was balanced for the first time in 1990 – “without any quotation”, as Walter Momper acknowledged in his greeting. In 1991 about 300 artists from the Eastern part of Berlin took part for the first time.\n\nDespite financial difficulties, the FBK provided a catalog for all the exhibitions. These catalogs were printed on high-quality paper with support from the Berlin printing company \"Ruksal\". From 1987 on, the catalogs were supplemented by a hall plan which made it easier to find the artists in the \"Free Division\" as well as in the groups.\n\nFor four weeks each year, between April and June, the FBK organizers opened the doors of the exhibition halls at the Funkturm Berlin and invited the public. “Drawings, pictures, spatial as well as sound and video installations, sculptures, collages, photography” were presented. In addition to depressive performances, there were also humorous inventions, such as a \"potency automat \"(1986) or an \"art licensing machine\"(1989). Over the years, not only the exhibition itself, but also the accompanying program developed. Prints and small sculptures were sold in a bazaar. On Saturdays there were guided tours. A traditional breakfast with jazz music and discussions enjoyed increasing popularity. A \"Kinderatelier\" (children's art room) was open daily where children, guided by artists, could paint. While the program changed at times, there were special readings by women, or “music played on historical instruments”. The exhibition management was also interested in the outer appearance of the exhibition halls. A proposal for a \"flag project\" was repeatedly turned down by the Senate. Eventually the artists financed the project at their own expense. In 1989 “the visitors of the 19th FBK were greeted at the entrance to the exhibition halls by 70 colourful flags [...], which had never been shown before”. In 1991, as in previous years, a “graphic competition for students of the Berlin University of the Arts” was organized. In 1992, the project began with picture panels, 30 large-format paintings on the outside of the exhibition halls, designed to “catch the eye”. For the first time in 1993, art discussions were held in which artists and visitors alike participated. They took place every day, with the aim to encourage “thinking with one's eyes”. A five-minute-long video, published on YouTube on October 5, 2010, highlights events of the 19th FBK. It provides an impression of the atmosphere typical of the exhibitions.\n\nThe media-echo was slow in coming. In 1983 – twelve years after the FBK's opening – Leonhardt still expressed hope “that the media would finally provide stronger support to this exhibition”. In 1990 he was able to report that “the acceptance we have recently received from the media was positive and seems to continue to be so.” The Berliner Morgenpost which had already devoted a full, richly illustrated page regarding the FBK, was also reporting regularly.\n\nBesides numerous sponsors and catalog advertisers, the FBK was financed by the Senate of Berlin. Over the course of about 20 years, from 1971 to 1993, its budget had grown steadily from 120,000 Deutsche Mark (DM) to over 760,000 DM. During that period, from 1981 to 1983, the budget of the FBK had been fixed and was slightly reduced in 1984. Well-known companies of the city helped fill the gaps. Senator Volker Hassemer secured the budget in 1985 which increased during the following eight years. The rent also increased considerably over the years and amounted to nearly 400,000 DM in 1995, leaving only 360,000 DM of the Senate's grants for the realization of the exhibition. This exhibition would not have been possible without donations from the artists. A year later the Senate stopped the grants entirely. That decision sealed the end of the FBK. During the jubilee exhibition in 1995 the organizers assumed that – while budget cuts had to be made – the FBK could still take place every second year, in a “2-year rhythm”, as the former cultural director Ulrich Roloff-Momin had stated. Nothing came out of it. There were appeals, some of them were drastic:\n\nThe figures presented here are incomplete. A first overview was published in the catalog of the 20th FBK relating to the years 1971 to 1989, and a second one in the catalog of the 24th FBK for the years 1991 to 1993. Thus, there is no information about 1990 and the last two years.\n\nIn the documented period – between 1983 and 1989 – the number of exhibitors increased from 750 to 2,400, with certain fluctuations. The number of groups involved rose from 25 to 82 and peaked with 91 groups in 1992. The number of visitors varied between 12,400 and 34,000 with a high in 1978. The grants made available by the Senate of Berlin for the organization and the set-up of the exhibition increased more or less continuously from 150,000 DM to more than 750,000 DM in 1993. In addition, there were not only sponsors, but also artists who sold their art to cover expenses of the exhibition. Nevertheless, money was always scarce, as Ernst Leonhardt's constantly admonishing words in the catalogs testify. The exhibition space had increased over the years to 9,000 square meters but the rent increased as well. It multiplied sixfold from the beginning to the last exhibition.\n\nWith the exception of the first two years, the number of art works that were sold increased consistently and grew steadily to a 6-figure sum, just under half a million in 1992. Yet, Leonhardt regrets: “Not more than about 5 % of the visual artists can support themselves through their work.” There were discussions about the often modest purchases of art works by the Senate of Berlin which were in the single-digit percentage range of the budget for art purchases.“Ridiculous, the disillusioned say, that of a 670,000 DM budget less than 5 % was purchased at the FBK, even though the Senator himself considers this exhibition to be the most important of the year in Berlin.”\n\nShahla Aghapour – Friedrich Ahlers-Hestermann – Günter Anlauf – Manfred Beelke – Wolfgang Bier – Gisela von Bruchhausen – Franziskus Dellgruen – Jürgen Draeger – Otto Drengwitz – Hans-Jürgen Gaudeck – Harald Gnade – Arwed D. Gorella – Ingrid Hartlieb – Ilja Heinig – Irene Herre – Jörg Hoffmann (Sculptor) – Thomas Hornemann – Peter Robert Keil – Matthias Koeppel – Dietmar Lemcke – Ernst Leonhardt – Dieter Masuhr – Reinhard Matz – Louise Rösler – Karl-Ludwig Sauer – Gerhard Scheibe – Vera Solymosi-Thurzó – Christian W. Staudinger – Walter Stöhrer – Herbert Strässer – Fred Thieler – Rainer M. Thurau – Klaus Tober – Heino D. Tripmacker – Jürgen Waller – Helmut Wolff (Artist) – Karlheinz Ziegler (Painter) – Hans-Joachim Zeidler\n\n"}
{"id": "8376237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8376237", "title": "Frieda Werden", "text": "Frieda Werden\n\nFrieda Lindfield Werden (born 1947) is an American and Canadian radio producer. She is the co-founder and producer of the weekly radio series \"WINGS: Women's International News Gathering Service\", which debuted in 1986 and has been in weekly syndication for more than twenty-seven years. Produced by and about women, \"WINGS\" broadcasts on non-commercial radio stations worldwide.\n\nWerden was born Linda Catherine Samfield in Austin, Texas. In 1972, she formally changed her name to Frieda Lindfield Werden. She lived in several other US cities before emigrating to Canada in 2002.\n\nWerden began producing radio with the Longhorn Radio Network in 1973. Her early radio series included \"Women Today\", a show about feminist movements in Texas. In 1975 Werden co-produced a multipart radio series about homosexuality called \"What’s Normal\".\n\nIn 1983 she worked for National Public Radio producing docudramas about various women writers, and, working with Judie Pasternak, formed a women’s news caucus at the National Federation of Community Radio Broadcasters conference.\n\nIn 1985, Werden became operations manager of Western Public Radio in San Francisco. There she co-founded \"WINGS: Women's International News Gathering Service\" (1986- ) with Katherine Davenport and Augusta Del Zotto, heavily inspired by a newsletter called \"Media Report to Women\" which was produced by The Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press. The inaugural \"WINGS\" newscast was released in May 1986 with the financial assistance of NPR’s Satellite Program Development Fund. Initially based out of their San Francisco home, Werden moved back to Austin, Texas after Davenport’s passing from Leukemia in 1992.\n\nIn 1993, Werden became an associate of the Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press (WIFP). WIFP is an American nonprofit publishing organization. The organization works to increase communication between women and connect the public with forms of women-based media. In the 1990s, she worked with a team of women in Austin, Texas, to produce a cable access television show called Women's News Hour.\n\nFrom 1993-2002, she worked for Genevieve Vaughan’s Foundation for a Compassionate Society in Austin, Texas, and helped to establish and staff Women's Access to Electronic Resources (WATER). In 1998, in Milan, Werden became North America Representative to the Women's International Network of AMARC (the World Association of Community Radio Broadcasters). As such, she represented AMARC on the Task Force for Gender Issues of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) in Geneva.\n\nIn 2005, Werden was elected president of the International Association of Women in Radio and Television. From 2002-2007, she served as Vice President for North America on the international Board of Directors of (AMARC).\n\nIn June 2006, she received the inaugural \"Lifetime Achievement Award\" at the 25th Annual National Community Radio Conference, a project of the Canadian National Campus and Community Radio Association (NCRA). In 2015, she received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the International Association of Women in Radio and TV.\n\nWerden held the postiton of Spoken Word Coordinator at CJSF-FM, Simon Fraser University’s campus-community radio station in Burnaby, BC, from 2002 to May 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1724183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1724183", "title": "Frère Jacques", "text": "Frère Jacques\n\nFrère Jacques (, , in the nursery rhyme and in song more generally , also known in English as Brother John, is a nursery rhyme of French origin. The rhyme is traditionally sung in a round.\n\nBesides its English and French names, \"Frère Jacques\" is known by a variety of names: in Afrikaans as \"Vader Jakob\"; in Croatian as \"Bratec Martin\"; in Danish as \"Mester Jakob\"; in Dutch as \"Broeder Jacob\" (in Flanders) or \"Vader Jacob\" (in the Netherlands); in Esperanto as \"Frat' Jakobo\"; in Finnish as \"Jaakko kulta\"; in German as \"Meister Jakob\" or \"Bruder Jakob\"; in Hebrew as \"אחינו הנהג\" (romanized as \"Achinu HaNehag\"); in Hungarian as \"János bácsi\"; in Italian as \"Fra' Martino\"; in Polish as \"Panie Janie\"; in Slovenian as \"Mojster Jaka\"; in Spanish as either \"Fray Santiago\" or \"Martinillo\", and in Vietnamese as \"Kìa Con Bướm Vàng\".\n\nThe song is about a friar who has overslept and is urged to wake up and sound the bell for the matins, the midnight or very early morning prayers for which a monk would be expected to wake.\n\nThe French lyrics, their literal translation, and traditional English lyrics are in the table\n\nThis translation preserves the musicality but greatly distorts the meaning: the whole point is that the bells \"are not ringing\", because brother John, who is supposed to ring them, is sleeping.\n\nThe song concerns a monk's duty to ring the bell for \"matines\". Frère Jacques has apparently overslept, it is time to ring the bell for matines, and someone wakes him up with this song. \nIn English, the word \"friar\" is derived from the Old French word \"frere\" (Modern French \"frère\"; \"brother\" in English), as French was still widely used in official circles in England during the 13th century when the four great orders of Friars started. The French word \"frère\" in turn comes from the Latin word \"frater\" (which also means \"brother\").\n\nA possible connection between \"Frère Jacques\" and the 17th century lithotomist Frère Jacques Beaulieu (also known as Frère Jacques Baulot), as claimed by Irvine Loudon and many others, was explored by J. P. Ganem and C. C. Carson without finding any evidence for a connection.\n\nFrancesca Draughon and Raymond Knapp argue that \"Frère Jacques\" was originally a song to taunt Jews or Protestants or Martin Luther (see Frère Jacques in popular culture).\n\nMartine David and A. Marie Delrieu suggest that \"Frère Jacques\" might have been created to mock the Dominican monks, known in France as the Jacobin order, for their sloth and comfortable lifestyles.\n\nIn a review of a book about Kozma Prutkov, Richard Gregg notes it has been claimed that \"Frère Jacques\" \"Frère Jacques\" was derived from a Russian seminary song about a \"Father Theofil\".\n\nAllmusic states that the earliest printed version of the melody is on a French manuscript circa 1780 (manuscript 300 in the manuscript collection of the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris). The manuscript is titled \"Recueil de Timbres de Vaudevilles\", and the Bibliothèque Nationale estimates that it was printed between 1775 and 1785. The \"Frère Jacques\" melody is labelled \"Frère Blaise\" in this manuscript.\n\nSheet music collector James Fuld (1916–2008) states that the tune was first published in 1811, and that the words and music were published together in Paris in 1869. An earlier publication in 1825 included the words together with a description of the melody in solfège, but not in musical notation. The words and music appear together in \"Recreations de l'enfance: Recueil de Rondes avec Jeux et de Petites Chansons pour Faire Jouer, Danser et Chanter les Enfants avec un Accompagnement de Piano Très-Facile\" by Charles Lebouc, which was first published in 1860 by Rouart, Lerolle & C. in Paris. This book was very popular and it was republished several times, so many editions exist.\n\nFrench musicologist Sylvie Bouissou has found some evidence that composer Jean-Philippe Rameau had written the music. A manuscript at the French National Library contains Frère Jacques among 86 canons, with Rameau listed as author.\n\n\"Frère Jacques\" bears resemblance to the piece \"Toccate d'intavolatura, No.14, Capriccio Fra Jacopino sopra L'Aria Di Ruggiero\" composed by Girolamo Frescobaldi, which was first published around 1615 - \"Fra Jacopino\" is one potential Italian translation for \"Frère Jacques\". Edward Kilenyi pointed out that \"Fra Jacopino\" shares the same \"Frère Jacques\"-like melody as \"Chanson de Lambert\", a French song dating from 1650, and a Hungarian folk tune.\n\nThe \"Frère Jacques\" tune is one of the most basic repeating canons along with the melody of Three Blind Mice. It is also simple enough to have spread easily from place to place. For example, Barbara Mittler in a conference abstract points out that the melody of \"Frère Jacques\" is so thoroughly assimilated into Chinese culture that it might be widely regarded as a Chinese folksong in China.\n\nThe song \"Frère Jacques\" often appears in popular culture. \"Frère Jacques\" is one of the most widely known songs in the world, and it can be found in many places.\n\n"}
{"id": "142684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142684", "title": "Goy", "text": "Goy\n\nLong before Roman times it had also acquired the meaning of someone who is not Jewish. It is also used to refer to individuals from non-Jewish religious or ethnic groups; when used in this way in English, it occasionally has pejorative connotations and non-Jews find it disparaging. The term \"goy\" is not inherently any more or less offensive than the term gentile. \n\nAs the Jews considered all of the non-Jewish nations in biblical times as polytheistic and idolatrous, the Hebrew word goy has for some time acquired the meaning \"heathen\". In a more comprehensive definition, the word goy corresponds to the later term \"ummot ha-olam\" (nations of the world).\n\nThe word means \"nation\" in Biblical Hebrew. In the Torah, and its variants appear over 550 times in reference to Israelites and to gentile nations. The first recorded usage of \"goyim\" occurs in and applies innocuously to non-Israelite nations. The first mention of \"goy\" in relation to the Israelites comes in , when God promises Abraham that his descendants will form a (\"great nation\"). In , the Jewish people are referred to as a , a \"holy nation\". While the books of the Hebrew Bible often use to describe the Israelites, the later Jewish writings tend to apply the term to other nations.\n\nSome Bible translations leave the word untranslated and treat it as the proper name of a country in , where it states that the \"King of Goyim\" was Tidal. Bible commentaries suggest that the term may refer to Gutium. In all other cases in the Bible, is the plural of and means \"nations\".\n\nOne of the more poetic descriptions of the chosen people in the Hebrew Bible, and popular among Jewish scholarship, as the highest description of themselves: when God proclaims in the holy writ, , or \"a unique nation upon the earth!\" ( and ).\n\nBecause of the idolatry and immoralities of the surrounding nations, the biblical writings show a passionate intolerance of these nations. Thus the seven \"goyim\", i.e., nations (Deuteronomy 7:1, 12:2), were to be treated with but little mercy; and, more especially, marriages with them were not to be tolerated (Deut. 7:3; comp. Exodus 34:16).\n\nThe rabbinic literature conceives of the nations () of the world as numbering seventy, each with a distinct language and purpose.\n\nChaim ibn Attar maintains that this is the symbolism behind the Menorah:\n\nMaimonides defines plain \"goy\" in his Mishneh Torah as a worshipper of idolatry, as he explains, \"Whenever we say plainly 'goy', we mean a worshipper of idolatry\".\n\nIn modern Hebrew and Yiddish the word \"goy\" is the standard term for a gentile. In English, the use of the word \"goy\" can be controversial. It is sometimes used pejoratively to refer to a non-Jew, but it is inherently no more insulting than the term \"gentile\".\n\nThe term \"shabbos goy\" (literally \"Sabbath gentile\") refers to a non-Jew who performs duties that Jewish law forbids a Jew from performing on the Sabbath.\n\n"}
{"id": "43529891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43529891", "title": "Hestavíg", "text": "Hestavíg\n\nHestavíg was an entertainment activity during the Viking Age in the Icelandic Commonwealth (930 - 1262), presumably a sport consisting of a brutal and bloody confrontation between two stallions, egged on by their masters, which mainly served to choose the best specimens for breeding. It was a cultural event of great importance and sometimes behaved verbal and physical confrontations among the spectators. The triumph of a champion or the other, could impact socially and politically in the pacts and alliances between goði (chieftains) and bóndi (homesteaders), as testified in the Norse sagas. The site where these battles held was a neutral place used to strengthen friendship or treat issues among rivals. It was also an opportunity for courtship between young couples. Sometimes rivalries raised among participants and ended in bloody conflicts. Some examples appear in the \"Njáls saga\" (chapter 59) and \"Víga-Glúms saga\" (chapters 13-14).\n\nThe origin of the activity came possibly from Norway. Sometimes Icelanders exported stallions specially trained for competitions in the continent.\n\n\"Skeið\" (skeidh) was another activity related to horses. It was a popular race competition from mainland Scandinavia.\n\nHestavíg is featured in the Icelandic viking film \"In the Shadow of the Raven\".\n"}
{"id": "302441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302441", "title": "Hexagram", "text": "Hexagram\n\nA hexagram (Greek) or sexagram (Latin) is a six-pointed geometric star figure with the Schläfli symbol {6/2}, 2{3}, or <nowiki></nowiki>. Since there are no true regular continuous hexagrams, the term is instead used to refer to the compound figure of two equilateral triangles shown to the right. The intersection is a regular hexagon.\n\nThe hexagram is part of an infinite series of shapes which are compounds of two n-dimensional simplices. In three dimensions, the analogous compound is the stellated octahedron, and in four dimensions the compound of two 5-cells is obtained.\n\nIt has been historically used in religious and cultural contexts and as decorative motifs; for example by medieval Muslims, especially Hanafi and Maliki dynasties, and later in Judaism and occultism. The symbol was used merely as a decorative motif in medieval Christian churches many centuries before its first known use in a Jewish synagogue. It was first used as a religious symbol by Arabs in the medieval period, known as the Seal of Solomon, depicted as either a hexagram or pentagram, and which was later adopted by Jewish Kabbalists.\n\nIn mathematics, the root system for the simple Lie group G is in the form of a hexagram, with six long roots and six short roots.\nA six-pointed star, like a regular hexagon, can be created using a compass and a straight edge:\n\nA regular hexagram can be constructed by orthographically projecting any cube onto a plane through three vertices that are all adjacent to the same vertex. The twelve midpoints to edges of the cube form a hexagram. For example, consider the projection of the unit cube with vertices at the eight possible binary vectors in three dimensions formula_1 onto the plane formula_2. The midpoints are formula_3, and all points resulting from these by applying a permutation to their entries. These 12 points project to a hexagram: six vertices around the outer hexagon and six on the inner.\n\nIt is possible that as a simple geometric shape, like for example the triangle, circle, or square, the hexagram has been created by various peoples with no connection to one another.\n\nThe hexagram is a mandala symbol called \"satkona yantra\" or \"sadkona yantra\" found on ancient South Indian Hindu temples. It symbolizes the nara-narayana, or perfect meditative state of balance achieved between Man and God, and if maintained, results in \"moksha,\" or \"nirvana\" (release from the bounds of the earthly world and its material trappings).\n\nSome researchers have theorized that the hexagram represents the astrological chart at the time of David's birth or anointment as king. The hexagram is also known as the \"King's Star\" in astrological circles.\n\nIn antique papyri, pentagrams, together with stars and other signs, are frequently found on amulets bearing the Jewish names of God, and used to guard against fever and other diseases. Curiously the hexagram is not found among these signs. In the Greek Magical Papyri (Wessely, l.c. pp. 31, 112) at Paris and London there are 22 signs side by side, and a circle with twelve signs, but neither a pentagram nor a hexagram.\n\nSix-pointed stars have also been found in cosmological diagrams in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism. The reasons behind this symbol's common appearance in Indic religions and the West are unknown. One possibility is that they have a common origin. The other possibility is that artists and religious people from several cultures independently created the hexagram shape, which is a relatively simple geometric design.\n\nWithin Indic lore, the shape is generally understood to consist of two triangles—one pointed up and the other down—locked in harmonious embrace. The two components are called \"Om\" and the \"Hrim\" in Sanskrit, and symbolize man's position between earth and sky. The downward triangle symbolizes Shakti, the sacred embodiment of femininity, and the upward triangle symbolizes Shiva, or Agni Tattva, representing the focused aspects of masculinity. The mystical union of the two triangles represents Creation, occurring through the divine union of male and female. The two locked triangles are also known as 'Shanmukha'—the six-faced, representing the six faces of Shiva & Shakti's progeny Kartikeya. This symbol is also a part of several yantras and has deep significance in Hindu ritual worship and history.\n\nIn Buddhism, some old versions of the Bardo Thodol, also known as The \"Tibetan Book of the Dead\", contain a hexagram with a Swastika inside. It was made up by the publishers for this particular publication. In Tibetan, it is called the \"origin of phenomenon\" (chos-kyi 'byung-gnas). It is especially connected with Vajrayogini, and forms the center part of Her mandala. In reality, it is in three dimensions, not two, although it may be portrayed either way.\n\nThe Shatkona is a symbol used in Hindu yantra that represents the union of both the male and feminine form. More specifically it is supposed to represent Purusha (the supreme being), and Prakriti (mother nature, or causal matter). Often this is represented as Shiva - Shakti.\n\nThe Shatkona is a hexagram and looks exactly like the Star of David.\n\nIn the endocrine system, Anahata is associated with the thymus gland, located in the chest. This gland produces T-cells, that combat disease, and bring equilibrium to the body. The functioning of the thymus is greatest before puberty and is impaired by the appearance of sex hormones in the blood stream from puberty onwards.\n\nThe \"Magen David\" is a generally recognized symbol of Judaism and Jewish identity and is also known colloquially as the Jewish Star or \"Star of David.\" Its usage as a sign of Jewish identity began in the Middle Ages, though its religious usage began earlier, with the current earliest archeological evidence being a stone bearing the shield from the arch of a 3–4th century synagogue in the Galilee. A more enduring symbol of Judaism, the menorah, has been in use since about 1300 BC according to the Torah .\n\nThe hexagram may be found in some Churches and stained-glass windows. In Christianity it is sometimes called the star of creation. A very early example, noted by Nikolaus Pevsner, can be found in Winchester Cathedral, England in one of the canopies of the choir stalls, circa 1308.\n\nIn Balkan countries, hexagrams can be found more often in Orthodox Christian churches than in Roman Catholic churches. \nThe Star of David is also used less prominently by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in the temples and in architecture. It symbolizes God reaching down to man and man reaching up to God, the union of Heaven and earth. It may also symbolize the Tribes of Israel and friendship and their affinity towards the Jewish people. Additionally, it is sometimes used to symbolize the quorum of the twelve apostles, as in Revelation 12, wherein the Church of God is symbolized by a woman wearing a crown of twelve stars. It is also sometimes used to symbolize the Big Dipper, which points to the North Star, a symbol of Jesus Christ.\n\nA black star of David is used to identify the black population, in Africa or otherwise, with one of the Tribes of Israel.\nDue to the culture of Rastafari emerging out of the Judeo-Christian Ethiopian history, dating back to Solomonic dynastic rule, the star of David, or the Seal of Solomon is a prevalent symbol amongst its adherents. Rastafari has adherents from every race across the globe, rooted in Christian doctrine, it is not an African or bloodline doctrine.\n\nThe symbol is known in Arabic as \"Khātem Sulaymān\" (Seal of Solomon; ) or \"Najmat Dāwūd\" (Star of David; ). The \"Seal of Solomon\" may also be represented by a five-pointed star or pentagram.\n\nIn the Qur'an, it is written that David and King Solomon (Arabic, \"Suliman\" or \"Sulayman\") were prophets and kings, and are figures revered by Muslims. The Medieval pre-Ottoman Hanafi Anatolian beyliks of the Karamanids and Jandarids used the star on their flag. The symbol also used on Hayreddin Barbarossa flag. Today the six-pointed star can be found in mosques and on other Arabic and Islamic artifacts.\n\nProfessor Gershom Scholem theorizes that the \"Star of David\" originates in the writings of Aristotle, who used triangles in different positions to indicate the different basic elements. The superposed triangles thus represented combinations of those elements. From Aristotle's writings those symbols made their ways into early, pre-Muslim Arab literature.\n\nIn heraldry and vexillology, a hexagram is a fairly common charge employed, though it is rarely called by this name. In Germanic regions it is known simply as a \"star.\" In English and French heraldry, however, the hexagram is known as a \"mullet of six points,\" where \"mullet\" is a French term for a spur rowel which is shown with five pointed arms by default unless otherwise specified. In Albanian heraldry and vexillology, hexagram has been used since classical antiquity and it is commonly referred to as \"sixagram\". of the House of Kastrioti depicts the hexagram on a pile argent over the double headed eagle. A hexagram also appears on the Dardania Flag, proposed for Kosovo by the Democratic League of Kosovo.\n\nThe Star of David is used in the seal and the emblem of the Theosophical Society (founded in 1875). Although it is more pronounced, it is used along with other religious symbols. These include the Swastika, the Ankh, the Aum, and the Ouroboros. The star of David is also known as the Seal of Solomon that was its original name until around 50 years ago.\n\nThe hexagram, like the pentagram, was and is used in practices of the occult and ceremonial magic and is attributed to the 7 \"old\" planets outlined in astrology.\n\nThe six-pointed star is commonly used both as a talisman and for conjuring spirits and spiritual forces in diverse forms of occult magic. In the book The History and Practice of Magic, Vol. 2, the six-pointed star is called the talisman of Saturn and it is also referred to as the Seal of Solomon. Details are given in this book on how to make these symbols and the materials to use.\n\nTraditionally, the Hexagram can be seen as the combination of the four elements. Fire is symbolized as an upwards pointing triangle, while Air (its elemental opposite) is also an upwards pointing triangle, but with a horizontal line through its center. Water is symbolized as a downwards pointing triangle, while Earth (its elemental opposite) is also a downwards pointing triangle, but with a horizontal line through its center. When you combine the symbols of Fire and Water, a hexagram (six-pointed star) is created. The same follows for when you combine the symbols of Air and Earth. When you combine both hexagrams, you get the double-hexagram. Thus, a combination of the elements is created.\n\nIn Rosicrucian and Hermetic Magic, the seven Traditional Planets correspond with the angles and the center of the Hexagram as follows, in the same patterns as they appear on the Sephiroth and on the Tree of Life. Saturn, although formally attributed to the Sephira of Binah, within this frame work nonetheless occupies the position of Daath.\n\nThe hexagram is featured within and on the outside of many Masonic temples as a decoration. It may have been found within the structures of King Solomon's temple, from which Freemasons are inspired in their philosophies and studies. Like many other symbols in Freemasonry, the deciphering of the hexagram is non-dogmatic and left to the interpretation of the individual.\n\n \n\n\nThe figure {6/3} can be shown as a compound of three digons.\n\nOther \"hexagrams\" can be constructed as a continuous path.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3091775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3091775", "title": "Hindustani etymology", "text": "Hindustani etymology\n\nHindustānī, also known as Hindi-Urdu, comprises several closely related dialects in the northern, central and northwestern part of the Indian subcontinent. It encompasses two standardized registers in the forms of the official languages Hindi and Urdu, as well as several nonstandard dialects. Hindustani is not an immediate descendant of Sanskrit, but uses a large lexicon of loanwords.\n\nStandard Hindi derives much of its formal and technical vocabulary from Sanskrit while standard Urdu derives much of its formal and technical vocabulary from Persian. Standard Hindi and Urdu are used primarily in public addresses and radio or TV news, while the everyday spoken language is one of the several varieties of Hindustani, whose vocabulary contains words drawn from Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit. In addition, spoken Hindustani includes words from English and the Dravidian languages, as well as several others.\n\nHindustani developed over several centuries throughout much of the northern subcontinent including the areas that comprise modern-day India, Pakistan, and Nepal. In the same way that the core vocabulary of English evolved from Old English (Anglo-Saxon) but assimilated a large number of words borrowed from French and other languages (whose pronunciations often changed naturally so as to become easier for speakers of English to pronounce), what may be called Hindustani can be said to have evolved from Sanskrit while borrowing many Persian and Arabic words over the years, and changing the pronunciations (and often even the meanings) of these words to make them easier for Hindustani speakers to pronounce. A large number of Persian words entered the Hindustani lexicon due to the influence of the Turco-Mongol Mughal rulers of north India, who followed a very Persianised culture and also spoke Persian. Many Arabic words entered Hindustani via Persian, which had previously been assimilated into the Persian language due to the influence of Arabs in the area. The dialect of Persian spoken by the Mughal ruling elite was known as 'Dari', which is the dialect of Persian spoken in modern-day Afghanistan. Therefore, Hindustani is the naturally developed common language of north India. This article will deal with the separate categories of Hindustani words and some of the common words found in the Hindustani language.\n\nWords in Hindustani are analyzed in traditional Hindi pedagogy as falling into the following categories:\n\n\nThe use of \"tatsama\" words was much less common in Apabhramsha. The most common words in Hindustani are \"tadbhava\" and are derived through Prakrit and Apabhramsha.\n\nUrdu as spoken in Pakistan and some Indian states, and Hindi as spoken in India, other than using a different script, are often very similar. Generally Modern Standard Hindi incorporates vocabulary of Persian and Arabic origin found in Urdu, while Urdu has not been known to incorporate much of the vocabulary of Sanskrit origin found in Hindi.\n\nIn Hindustani, the pronoun \"āp\", which denotes respect or formalism, originates from Sanskrit \"ātmana\" (आत्मन), which denotes the higher self or level of consciousness.\n\nThe pronoun \"tum\", which denotes informality or intimacy, originates from Prakrit \"tumma\" (तुम्म), ultimately from Sanskrit \"yushma\" (युष्म) (the base of the 2nd person plural pronoun).\n\nThe pronoun \"tū\", also originates from Prakrit \"tuhu\" (तुहुं). In modern usage, \"tū\" is used widely in India to denote a wide range of attitudes, dependent on context, from extreme informality, to derision and even extreme reverence. However, usage of \"tū\" in most contexts is considered highly offensive in Urdu, with the exception being \"tu\" used as second-person pronoun for God. This is a trend comparable to the decline of \"thou\" in English and of \"tu\" in Brazilian Portuguese.\n\nOne of the most common words in Hindustani is \"hai\" (\"is\"). It originates from the following developments:\n\n\nSanskrit \"s\" sometimes becomes \"h\" in Prakrits.\n\nShortening of \"ahai\" produced \"hai\". In some older works in Hindustani literature, one can find usage of \"ahai\". For example, Bharatendu Harishchandra wrote: \"निज भाषा उन्नति अहै, सब उन्नति को मूल\" (\"نِج بھاشا اُنّتی اہَے، سب اُنّتی کو مُول \"). In Marathi the अ remained, and the equivalent of \"hai\" is \"āhe\" (आहे). Similarly, the Sindhi word for \"hai\" is \"āhe\".\n\nThe word \"jātā\" (\"goes\") is from Sanskrit root \"yā\" (\"yāti\", \"yāta\"). \"ya\" often becomes \"ja\" in Prakrit.\n\nThe word \"gayā\" (\"went\") is from Sanskrit root \"gam\" (\"gacchati\"), from \"gatah\". \nHere \"t\" transforms to \"y\" in Prakrit.\n\nThe word ājā has also been used in Northern India and Pakistan for \"grandfather\". \nIt is indeed derived from \"arya\" meaning \"sir\" in this case. \nJains nuns are addressed either as \"Aryika\" or \"Ajji\".\n\nThe word dādā also has a similar meaning which varies by region. It is used in some regions for \"father\", in other regions for \"older brother\", or even for \"grandfather\" in other regions. This word is an amalgam of two sources:\n\n\nThe word \"baṛā\" (\"older/bigger\") is derived from the Sanskrit \"vridhha\" through Prakrit \"vaḍḍha\".\n\nThe vocabulary of Hindustani includes loanwords from Sanskrit, Persian, Turkish, Arabic, Portuguese, English and Dravidian Languages.\n\nMany Sanskrit words which were loaned into Prakrits in the pre-modern age underwent phonetic alterations to facilitate ease of pronunciation. In spoken language, these include the merger of श (ś) and ष (ṣ), as well as ऋ (r̥) and रि (ri). Other common alterations were sh (श / ش) becoming s (स / س)، v (व / و) becoming b (ब / ب) and y (य / ی) becoming j (ज / ج). Short vowel sounds were also sometimes introduced to break up consonant clusters. Such words fall under the \"tadbhava\" category.\n\nPersian loanwords not artificially added to Hindustani are derived from Classical Persian, which is a historical dialect, and not the same as modern-day Persian.\n\nSome Hindustani words derive from the Present Stem of Persian verbs:\n\nOthers are derived from the Past Stem:\n\nThe Present Participles of some Persian verbs are used to describe something or someone that does the action indicated by the verb:\n\nIn a similar fashion, Past Participles are used to describe something which has done an action, or has had an action done to it, in the past:\n\nSome Hindustani verbs are formed directly from Persian verbs by changing the ending of the infinitive:\n\nNouns formed by adding the ending '-ish' (इश / ـِش) to a verb stem are also used:\n\nThere are a very small number of pure Turkic words in Hindustani, numbering as little as 24 according to some sources.\nOther words attributed to Turkish are words which are common to Hindustani and Turkish, but which have other origins, mostly Arabic or Persian. Both languages also share mutual loans from English.\nMost notably, some honorifics and surnames common in the Hindustani belt originate from Turkic languages. This is most probably due to the influence of Mughal rulers, who were ethnically Turkic. Examples of honorifics include 'Ḳhānam' (ख़ानम خانم), 'Bājī' (बाजी باجی), and 'Begam' (बेगम بیگم). Common surnames include 'Ḳhān' (ख़ान خان), 'Chuġtāī' (चुग़ताई چغتائی), 'Pāshā' (पाशा پاشا), and 'Arsalān' (अर्सलान ارسلان).\nSome common Turkic words used in everyday Hindustani are 'Qainchī' (क़ैंची قینچی) - \"scissors\", 'Annā' (अन्ना انّا) - \"governess\", 'Tamġā' (तमग़ा تمغہ) - \"medal\", and 'Chaqmaq' (चक़मक़ چقمق) - \"flint\".\n\nSome of the most commonly used loanwords from Arabic include 'Waqt' (वक़्त وقت)-time, 'Qalam' (क़लम قلم)-pen 'Kitāb' (किताब کتاب)-book, 'Qarīb' (क़रीब قریب)-near, 'Sahī' (सही صحیح)-correct, 'Gharīb' (ग़रीब غریب)-poor, 'Amīr' (अमीर امیر)-rich, Duniyā (दुनिया دنیا)-world, 'Hisāb' (हिसाब حساب)-calculation, 'Qudrat' (क़ुदरत قدرت)- nature, 'Nasīb' (नसीब نصیب)-fate, 'Ajīb' (अजीब عجیب)-unusual, 'Qānūn' (क़ानून قانون)-law, 'Khabar' (ख़बर خبر)-news, Akhbār (अख़बार اخبار)-newspaper, 'Qilā' (क़िला قلعہ)-fort, 'Kursī' (कुर्सी کرسی)-chair, 'Sharbat' (शर्बत شربت)-drink/beverage, 'Qamīs' (क़मीस قميص)-shirt, 'Zarūrī (ज़रूरी ضروری)-necessary, etc.\n\nA small number of words were borrowed from Portuguese due to interaction with colonists and missionaries. These include the following:\n\nLoanwords were borrowed from English into Hindustani through interaction with the British East India Company and later British rule. English-language education for the native administrative and richer classes during the period of British rule accelerated the adoption of English vocabulary in Hindustani. Many technical and modern terms were borrowed from English, such as \"doctor\" (डॉक्टर ڈاکٹر), \"taxi\" (टैक्सी ٹیکسی), and \"kilometer\" (किलोमीटर کلومیٹر). The influence of English and assimilation of new loanwords continues to the present day.\n\nSome loanwords borrowed from English undergo a significant phonetic transformation. This can be done either intentionally, in order to nativize words or to make them sound more authentic or less 'English', or it can happen as a natural process. Words often undergo a phonetic change in order to make them easier for native speakers to pronounce. Other words are changed due to corruption, where an alternate pronunciation becomes an accepted norm and overtakes the original as the most used pronunciation. Altered pronunciations may also be the result of a lack of English education, or incomplete knowledge of English phonetics.\n\n"}
{"id": "3684625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3684625", "title": "History of architecture", "text": "History of architecture\n\nThe history of architecture traces the changes in architecture through various traditions, regions, overarching stylistic trends, and dates. The branches of architecture are civil, sacred, naval, military, and landscape architecture.\n\nNeolithic architecture is the architecture of the Neolithic period. Although many dwellings belonging to all prehistoric periods and also some clay models of dwellings have been uncovered enabling us to make faithful reconstructions, they selfom included elements that may relate them to art. Some exceptions are provided by wall decorations and by finds that equally apply to Neolithic and Eneolithic rites and art.\n\nIn Southwest Asia, Neolithic cultures appear soon after 10,000 BC, initially in the Levant (Pre-Pottery Neolithic A and Pre-Pottery Neolithic B) and from there spread eastwards and westwards. There are early Neolithic cultures in Southeast Anatolia, Syria and Iraq by 8000 BC, and food-producing societies first appear in southeast Europe by 7000 BC, and Central Europe by c. 5500 BC (of which the earliest cultural complexes include the Starčevo-Koros (Cris), Linearbandkeramic, and Vinča). With the exception of the Andes, the Isthmo-Columbian area and Western Mesoamerica (and a few copper hatchets and spear heads in the Great Lakes region), the people of the Americas and the Pacific remained at the Neolithic level of technology up until the time of Western contact.\n\nThe neolithic people in the Levant, Anatolia, Syria, northern Mesopotamia and Central Asia were great builders, utilizing mud-brick to construct houses and villages. At Çatalhöyük, houses were plastered and painted with elaborate scenes of humans and animals. The Mediterranean neolithic cultures of Malta worshiped in megalithic temples.\n\nIn Europe, long houses built from wattle and daub were constructed. Elaborate tombs for the dead were also built. These tombs are particularly numerous in Ireland, where there are many thousands still in existence. Neolithic people in the British Isles built long barrows and chamber tombs for their dead and causewayed camps, henges flint mines and cursus monuments.\n\nAncient Mesopotamia is most noted for its construction of mud brick buildings and the construction of Ziggurats, religious temples made for worship of the gods and goddesses of Mesopotamia. The word Ziggurat is an anglicized form of the Akkadian word ziqqurratum, the name given to the solid stepped towers of mud brick. It derives from the verb zaqaru, ‘to be high'. The buildings are described as being like mountains linking Earth and heaven. The ziggurat at Ur, excavated by Leonard Woolley, is 64 by 46 meters at base and originally some 12 meters in height with three stories. It was built under Ur-Nammu (c.2100 B.C.) and rebuilt under Nabonidus (555-539 B.C.) when it was increased in height to probably seven stories.\n\nIn Ancient Egypt and other early societies, people believed in the omnipotence of gods, with many aspects of daily life carried out with respect to the idea of the divine or supernatural and the way it was manifest in the mortal cycles of generations, years, seasons, days and nights. Harvests for example were seen as the benevolence of fertility deities. Thus, the founding and ordering of the city and her most important buildings (the palace or temple) were often executed by priests or even the ruler himself and the construction was accompanied by rituals intended to enter human activity into continued divine benediction.\n\nAncient architecture is characterized by this tension between the divine and mortal world. Cities would mark a contained sacred space over the wilderness of nature outside, and the temple or palace continued this order by acting as a house for the gods. The architect, be he priest or king, was not the sole important figure; he was merely part of a continuing tradition.\n\nThe architecture and urbanism of the Greeks and Romans was very different from that of the Egyptians and Persians. Civic life gained importance for all members of the community. In the time of the ancients religious matters were only handled by the ruling class; by the time of the Greeks, religious mystery had skipped the confines of the temple-palace compounds and was the subject of the people or \"polis\".\n\nGreek civic life was sustained by new, open spaces called the \"agora\" which were surrounded by public buildings, stores and temples. The \"agora\" embodied the newfound respect for social justice received through open debate rather than imperial mandate. Though divine wisdom still presided over human affairs, the living rituals of ancient civilizations had become inscribed in space, in the paths that wound towards the \"acropolis\" for example. Each place had its own nature, set within a world refracted through myth, thus temples were sited atop mountains all the better to touch the heavens.\n\nGreek architecture was typically post-and-beam (called \"trabeated\") and made of stone. Most surviving buildings are temples, based on strict rules of proportion. These temples typically included a peristyle (outer area with (typically doric) columns), and three-sections in the middle, being 1. the pronaus (entrance), 2. the main cella or naos chamber (where a statue of the god or goddess and an altar was built), and 3. the opisthodomos behind the cella.\n\nThe Romans conquered the Greek cities in Italy around three hundred years BCE and much of the Western world after that. The Roman problem of rulership involved the unity of disparity — from Spanish to Greek, Macedonian to Carthaginian — Roman rule had extended itself across the breadth of the known world and the myriad pacified cultures forming this \"ecumene\" presented a new challenge for justice.\n\nOne way to look at the unity of Roman architecture is through a new-found realization of theory derived from practice, and embodied spatially. Civically we find this happening in the Roman \"forum\" (sibling of the Greek agora), where public participation is increasingly removed from the concrete performance of rituals and represented in the decor of the architecture. Thus we finally see the beginnings of the contemporary public square in the Forum Iulium, begun by Julius Caesar, where the buildings present themselves through their facades as representations within the space.\n\nAs the Romans chose representations of sanctity over actual sacred spaces to participate in society, the communicative nature of space was opened to human manipulation. None of which would have been possible without the advances of Roman engineering and construction or the newly found marble quarries which were the spoils of war; inventions like the arch and concrete gave a whole new form to Roman architecture, fluidly enclosing space in taut domes and colonnades, clothing the grounds for imperial rulership and civic order. This was also a response to the changing social climate which demanded new buildings of increasing complexity — the colosseum, the residential block, bigger hospitals and academies. General civil construction such as roads and bridges began to be built.\n\nThe Romans widely employed, and further developed, the arch, vault and dome (see the Roman Architectural Revolution), all of which were little used before, particularly in Europe. Their innovative use of Roman concrete facilitated the building of the many public buildings of often unprecedented size throughout the empire. These include Roman temples, Roman baths, Roman bridges, Roman aqueducts, Roman harbours, triumphal arches, Roman amphitheatres, Roman circuses palaces, mausolea and in the late empire also churches.\n\nRoman domes permitted construction of vaulted ceilings and enabled huge covered public spaces such as the public baths like Baths of Diocletian or the monumental Pantheon in the city of Rome.\n\nArt historians such as Gottfried Richter in the 1920s identified the Roman architectural innovation as being the Triumphal Arch and it is poignant to see how this symbol of power on earth was transformed and utilized within the Christian basilicas when the Roman Empire of the West was on its last legs: The arch was set before the altar to symbolize the triumph of Christ and the after life. It is in their impressive aqueducts that we see the arch triumphant, especially in the many surviving examples, such as the Pont du Gard, the aqueduct at Segovia and the remains of the Aqueducts of Rome itself. Their survival is testimony to the durability of their materials and design.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire gradually emerged as a distinct artistic and cultural entity from the Roman Empire after AD 330, when the Roman Emperor Constantine moved the capital of the Roman Empire east from Rome to Byzantium (later renamed Constantinople and now called Istanbul). The empire endured for more than a millennium, dramatically influencing Medieval and Renaissance-era architecture in Europe and, following the capture of Constantinople by the Ottoman Turks in 1453, leading directly to the architecture of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nEarly Byzantine architecture was built as a continuation of Roman architecture. Stylistic drift, technological advancement, and political and territorial changes meant that a distinct style gradually emerged which imbued certain influences from the Near East and used the Greek cross plan in church architecture. Buildings increased in geometric complexity, brick and plaster were used in addition to stone in the decoration of important public structures, classical orders were used more freely, mosaics replaced carved decoration, complex domes rested upon massive piers, and windows filtered light through thin sheets of alabaster to softly illuminate interiors. (see Hagia Sophia)\n\nThe pre-Islamic styles draw on 3-4 thousand years of architectural development from various civilizations of the Iranian plateau. The Islamic architecture of Iran in turn, draws ideas from its pre-Islamic predecessor, and has geometrical and repetitive forms, as well as surfaces that are richly decorated with glazed tiles, carved stucco, patterned brickwork, floral motifs, and calligraphy.\nIran is recognized by UNESCO as being one of the cradles of civilization.\n\nEach of the periods of Elamites, Achaemenids, Parthians, and Sassanids were creators of great architecture that over the ages has spread wide and far to other cultures being adopted. Although Iran has suffered its share of destruction, including Alexander The Great's decision to burn Persepolis, there are sufficient remains to form a picture of its classical architecture.\n\nThe Achaemenids built on a grand scale. The artists and materials they used were brought in from practically all territories of what was then the largest state in the world. Pasargadae set the standard: its city was laid out in an extensive park with bridges, gardens, colonnaded palaces and open column pavilions. Pasargadae along with Susa and Persepolis expressed the authority of The King of Kings, the staircases of the latter recording in relief sculpture the vast extent of the imperial frontier.\n\nWith the emergence of the Parthians and Sassanids there was an appearance of new forms. Parthian innovations fully flowered during the Sassanid period with massive barrel-vaulted chambers, solid masonry domes, and tall columns. This influence was to remain for years to come.\nThe roundness of the city of Baghdad in the Abbasid era for example, points to its Persian precedents such as Firouzabad in Fars. The two designers who were hired by al-Mansur to plan the city's design were Naubakht, a former Persian Zoroastrian who also determined that the date of the foundation of the city would be astrologically auspicious, and Mashallah, a former Jew from Khorasan.\nThe ruins of Persepolis, Ctesiphon, Jiroft, Sialk, Pasargadae, Firouzabad, Arg-é Bam, and thousands of other ruins may give us merely a distant glimpse of what contribution Persians made to the art of building.\n\nThe fall of the Sassanid Empire to invading Islamic forces ironically led to the creation of remarkable religious buildings in Iran. Arts such as calligraphy, stucco work, mirror work, and mosaic work, became closely tied with architecture in Iran in the new era. Archaeological excavations have provided sufficient documents in support of the impacts of Sasanian architecture on the architecture of the Islamic world.\nMany experts believe the period of Persian architecture from the 15th through 17th Centuries to be the most brilliant of the post-Islamic era. Various structures such as mosques, mausoleums, bazaars, bridges, and different palaces have mainly survived from this period.\n\nIn the old Persian architecture, semi-circular and oval-shaped vaults were of great interest, leading Safavi architects to display their extraordinary skills in making massive domes. In the words of D. Huff, a German archaeologist, the dome is the dominant element in Persian architecture. Domes can be seen frequently in the structure of bazaars and mosques, particularly during the Safavi period in Isfahan. Iranian domes are distinguished for their height, proportion of elements, beauty of form, and roundness of the dome stem. The outer surfaces of the domes are mostly mosaic faced, and create a magical view. Safavi Isfahan tried to achieve grandeur in scale (Isfahan's Naghsh-i Jahan Square is the 6th largest square worldwide) knowledge about building tall buildings with vast inner spaces. However, the quality of ornaments was decreased in comparison with those of the 14th and 15th centuries.\n\nThe great mosques of Khorasan, Isfahan, and Tabriz each used local geometry, local materials, and local building methods to express in their own ways the order, harmony, and unity of Islamic architecture. And thus when the major monuments of Islamic Persian architecture are examined, they reveal complex geometrical relationships, a studied hierarchy of form and ornament, and great depths of symbolic meaning.\n\nDue to the extent of the Islamic conquests, Islamic architecture encompasses a wide range of architectural styles from the foundation of Islam to the present day. Both the religious and secular designs have influenced the design and construction of buildings and structures within and outside the sphere of Islamic culture. Islamic architecture is typically based on the idea of relating to the secular or the religious. Some distinctive structures in Islamic architecture are mosques, tombs, palaces, baths, and forts, although Islamic architects have of course also applied their distinctive design precepts to domestic architecture.\n\nThe wide and long history of Islam has given rise to many local architectural styles, including Abbasid, Persian, Moorish, Timurid, Ottoman, Fatimid, Mamluk, Mughal, Indo-Islamic, Sino-Islamic and Afro-Islamic architecture. Notable Islamic architectural types include the early Abbasid buildings, T-type mosques, and the central-dome mosques of Anatolia. Islam does not encourage the worship of idols; therefore the architecture tends to be decorated with Arabic calligraphy from the Quran rather than illustrations of scenes from it.\n\nEthiopian architecture (including modern-day Eritrea) expanded from the Aksumite style and incorporated new traditions with the expansion of the Ethiopian state. Styles incorporated more wood and rounder structures in commoner's architecture in the center of the country and the south, and these stylistic influences were manifested in the construction of churches and monasteries. Throughout the medieval period, Aksumite architecture and influences and its monolithic tradition persisted, with its influence strongest in the early medieval (Late Aksumite) and Zagwe periods (when the churches of Lalibela were carved). Throughout the medieval period, and especially from the 10th to 12th centuries, churches were hewn out of rock throughout Ethiopia, especially during the northernmost region of Tigray, which was the heart of the Aksumite Empire. However, rock-hewn churches have been found as far south as Adadi Maryam (15th century), about 100 km south of Addis Abeba. The most famous example of Ethiopian rock-hewn architecture are the 11 monolithic churches of Lalibela, carved out of the red volcanic tuff found around the town. Though later medieval hagiographies attribute all 11 structures to the eponymous King Lalibela (the town was called Roha and Adefa before his reign), new evidence indicates that they may have been built separately over a period of a few centuries, with only a few of the more recent churches having been built under his reign. Archaeologist and \"Ethiopisant\" David Phillipson postulates, for instance, that Bete Gebriel-Rufa'el was actually built in the very early medieval period, some time between 600 and 800 A.D., originally as a fortress but was later turned into a church.\n\nDuring the early modern period, the absorption of new diverse influences such as Baroque, Arab, Turkish and Gujarati Indian style began with the arrival of Portuguese Jesuit missionaries in the 16th and 17th centuries. Portuguese soldiers had initially come in the mid-16th century as allies to aid Ethiopia in its fight against Adal, and later Jesuits came hoping to convert the country. Some Turkish influence may have entered the country during the late 16th century during its war with the Ottoman Empire (see Habesh), which resulted in an increased building of fortresses and castles. Ethiopia, naturally easily defensible because of its numerous ambas or flat-topped mountains and rugged terrain, yielded little tactical use from the structures in contrast to their advantages in the flat terrain of Europe and other areas, and so had until this point little developed the tradition. Castles were built especially beginning with the reign of Sarsa Dengel around the Lake Tana region, and subsequent Emperors maintained the tradition, eventually resulting in the creation of the Fasil Ghebbi (royal enclosure of castles) in the newly founded capital (1635), Gondar. Emperor Susenyos (r.1606-1632) converted to Catholicism in 1622 and attempted to make it the state religion, declaring it as such from 1624 until his abdication; during this time, he employed Arab, Gujarati (brought by the Jesuits), and Jesuit masons and their styles, as well as local masons, some of whom were Beta Israel. With the reign of his son Fasilides, most of these foreigners were expelled, although some of their architectural styles were absorbed into the prevailing Ethiopian architectural style. This style of the Gondarine dynasty would persist throughout the 17th and 18th centuries especially and also influenced modern 19th-century and later styles.\nGreat Zimbabwe is the largest medieval city in sub-Saharan Africa. By the late nineteenth century, most buildings reflected the fashionable European eclecticism and pastisched Mediterranean, or even Northern European, styles.\n\nIn the Western Sahel region, Islamic influence was a major contributing factor to architectural development from the later ages of the Kingdom of Ghana. At Kumbi Saleh, locals lived in domed-shaped dwellings in the king's section of the city, surrounded by a great enclosure. Traders lived in stone houses in a section which possessed 12 beautiful mosques, as described by al-bakri, with one centered on Friday prayer. The king is said to have owned several mansions, one of which was sixty-six feet long, forty-two feet wide, contained seven rooms, was two stories high, and had a staircase; with the walls and chambers filled with sculpture and painting.\n\nSahelian architecture initially grew from the two cities of Djenné and Timbuktu. The Sankore Mosque in Timbuktu, constructed from mud on timber, was similar in style to the Great Mosque of Djenné. The rise of kingdoms in the West African coastal region produced architecture which drew on indigenous traditions, utilizing wood. The famed Benin City, destroyed by the Punitive Expedition, was a large complex of homes in coursed clay, with hipped roofs of shingles or palm leaves. The Palace had a sequence of ceremonial rooms, and was decorated with brass plaques.\n\nIndian architecture encompasses a wide variety of geographically and historically spread structures, and was transformed by the history of the Indian subcontinent. The result is an evolving range of architectural production that, although it is difficult to identify a single representative style, nonetheless retains a certain amount of continuity across history. The diversity of Indian culture is represented in its architecture. It is a blend of ancient and varied native traditions, with building types, forms and technologies from West and Central Asia, as well as Europe. Architectural styles range from Hindu temple architecture to Islamic architecture to western classical architecture to modern and post-modern architecture.\n\nIndia's Urban Civilization is traceable originally to Mohenjodaro and Harappa, now in Pakistan. From then on, Indian architecture and civil engineering continued to develop, manifesting in temples, palaces and forts across the Indian subcontinent and neighbouring regions. Architecture and civil engineering was known as \"sthapatya-kala\", literally \"the art of constructing\".\nThe temples of Aihole and Pattadakal are the earliest known examples of Hindu temples. There are numerous Hindu as well as Buddhist temples that are known as excellent examples of Indian rock-cut architecture. According to J.J. O'Connor and E. F. Robertson, the \"Sulbasutras\" were appendices to the Vedas giving \"rules for constructing altars\". \"They contained quite an amount of geometrical knowledge, but the mathematics was being developed, not for its own sake, but purely for practical religious purposes.\"\n\nDuring the Kushan Empire and Mauryan Empire, Indian architecture and civil engineering reached regions like Baluchistan and Afghanistan. Statues of Buddha were cut out, covering entire mountain cliffs, like in Buddhas of Bamyan, Afghanistan. Over a period of time, the ancient Indian art of construction blended with Greek styles and spread to Central Asia.\nIt includes the architecture of various dynasties, such as Hoysala architecture, Vijayanagara architecture and Western Chalukya architecture.\n\nThe rule of the Delhi Sultanate, Deccan Sultanates and Mughal Empire led to the development of Indo-Islamic architecture, a style that combined Islamic influences with traditional Indian styles. \n\nDuring the British Raj, a new style of architecture known as the Indo-Saracenic revival style developed, which incorporated varying degrees of Indian elements into the British style. The Churches and convents of Goa which is cast in the Indian Baroque Architectural style under the orientation of the most eminent architects of the time. It is a prime example of the blending of traditional Indian styles with western European architectural styles.\n\nThe main evidence of Khmer architecture and ultimately for Khmer civilization, however, remains the religious buildings, considerable in number and extremely varied in size. They were destined for immortal gods and as they were built of durable materials of brick, laterite and sandstone, many have survived to the present day. They were usually surrounded by enclosures to protect them from evil powers but confusion has often arisen as to which is a temple enclosure and which is that of the town of which the temple was a part.\nAngkor Wat temple is a great example of Khmer architectural masterpiece, was built by king Suryavarman II in 12th century. Despite the fact that it is over 800 years old, it has still maintained its top rank to be the world's largest religious structure.\n\nIn Cambodia, there are 14 architectural styles are described as the followings:\n\nThe architecture of Indonesia reflects both the cultural diversity of the region and its rich historical inheritance. The geographic position of Indonesia means a transition between the culture of Asian Hindu-Buddhism architecture and animistic architecture of Oceania. Indonesian wide range of vernacular styles is the legacy of an Austronesian architectural tradition characterized by wooden pile dwellings, high pitched roofs and extended roof ridges. The temples of Java, on the other hand, share an Indian Hindu-Buddhist ancestry, typical of Southeast Asia; though indigenous influences have led to the creation of a distinctly Indonesian style of monumental architecture. Gradual spread of Islam through the region from the 12th century onwards creates an Islamic architecture which betray a mixture of local and exotic elements. Arrival of the European merchant, especially the Dutch, shows incorporation of many Indonesian features into the architecture of the native Netherlands to produce an eclectic synthesis of Eastern and Western forms apparent in the early 18th-century Indies Style and modern New Indies Style. The years that followed independence saw the adoption of Modernist agenda on the part of Indonesian architects apparent in the architecture of the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nChinese architecture refers to a style of architecture that has taken shape in East Asia over many centuries.especially Japan, Korea, Vietnam and Ryukyu. The structural principles of Chinese architecture have remained largely unchanged, the main changes being only the decorative details. Since the Tang Dynasty, Chinese architecture has had a major influence on the architectural styles of Korea, Vietnam, and Japan.\n\nFrom the Neolithic era Longshan Culture and Bronze Age era Erlitou culture, the earliest rammed earth fortifications exist, with evidence of timber architecture. The subterranean ruins of the palace at Yinxu dates back to the Shang Dynasty (c. 1600 BC–1046 BC). In historic China, architectural emphasis was laid upon the horizontal axis, in particular the construction of a heavy platform and a large roof that floats over this base, with the vertical walls not as well emphasized. This contrasts Western architecture, which tends to grow in height and depth. Chinese architecture stresses the visual impact of the width of the buildings. The deviation from this standard is the tower architecture of the Chinese tradition, which began as a native tradition and was eventually influenced by the Buddhist building for housing religious sutras — the stupa — which came from Nepal. Ancient Chinese tomb model representations of multiple story residential towers and watchtowers date to the Han Dynasty (202 BC–220 AD). However, the earliest extant Buddhist Chinese pagoda is the Songyue Pagoda, a 40 m (131 ft) tall circular-based brick tower built in Henan province in the year 523 AD. From the 6th century onwards, stone-based structures become more common, while the earliest are from stone and brick arches found in Han Dynasty tombs. The Zhaozhou Bridge built from 595 to 605 AD is China's oldest extant stone bridge, as well as the world's oldest fully stone open-spandrel segmental arch bridge.\nThe vocational trade of architect, craftsman, and engineer was not as highly respected in premodern Chinese society as the scholar-bureaucrats who were drafted into the government by the civil service examination system. Much of the knowledge about early Chinese architecture was passed on from one tradesman to his son or associative apprentice. However, there were several early treatises on architecture in China, with encyclopedic information on architecture dating back to the Han Dynasty. The height of the classical Chinese architectural tradition in writing and illustration can be found in the \"Yingzao Fashi\", a building manual written by 1100 and published by Li Jie (1065–1110) in 1103. In it there are numerous and meticulous illustrations and diagrams showing the assembly of halls and building components, as well as classifying structure types and building components.\n\nThere were certain architectural features that were reserved solely for buildings built for the Emperor of China. One example is the use of yellow roof tiles; yellow having been the Imperial color, yellow roof tiles still adorn most of the buildings within the Forbidden City. The Temple of Heaven, however, uses blue roof tiles to symbolize the sky. The roofs are almost invariably supported by brackets, a feature shared only with the largest of religious buildings. The wooden columns of the buildings, as well as the surface of the walls, tend to be red in colour.\n\nMany current Chinese architectural designs follow post-modern and western styles.\n\nThe basic construction form is more or less similar to Eastern Asian building system. From a technical point of view, buildings are structured vertically and horizontally. A construction usually rises from a stone subfoundation to a curved roof covered with tiles, held by a console structure and supported on posts; walls are made of earth (adobe) or are sometimes totally composed of movable wooden doors. Architecture is built according to the unit, the distance between two posts (about 3.7 meters), and is designed so that there is always a transitional space between the \"inside\" and the \"outside.\"\n\nThe console, or bracket structure, is a specific architectonic element that has been designed in various ways through time. If the simple bracket system was already in use under the Goguryeo kingdom (37 BCE–668 CE)—in palaces in Pyongyang, for instance—a curved version, with brackets placed only on the column heads of the building, was elaborated during the early Koryo dynasty (918–1392). The Amita Hall of the Pusok temple in Antong is a good example. Later on (from the mid-Koryo period to the early Choson dynasty), a multiple-bracket system, or an inter-columnar-bracket set system, was developed under the influence of Mongol's Yuan dynasty (1279–1368). In this system, the consoles were also placed on the transverse horizontal beams. Seoul's Namtaemun Gate Namdaemun, Korea's foremost national treasure, is perhaps the most symbolic example of this type of structure.\nIn the mid-Choson period, the winglike bracket form appeared (one example is the Yongnyongjon Hall of Jongmyo, Seoul), which is interpreted by many scholars as an example of heavy Confucian influence in Joseon Korea, which emphasized simplicity and modesty in such shrine buildings. Only in buildings of importance like palaces or sometimes temples (Tongdosa, for instance) were the multicluster brackets still used. Confucianism also led to more sober and simple solutions.\n\nJapanese architecture has as long a history as any other aspect of Japanese culture. it also shows a number of important differences and aspects which are uniquely Japanese.\n\nTwo new forms of architecture were developed in medieval Japan in response to the militaristic climate of the times: the castle, a defensive structure built to house a feudal lord and his soldiers in times of trouble; and the \"shoin\", a reception hall and private study area designed to reflect the relationships of lord and vassal within a feudal society.\n\nBecause of the need to rebuild Japan after World War II, major Japanese cities contain numerous examples of modern architecture. Japan played some role in modern skyscraper design, because of its long familiarity with the cantilever principle to support the weight of heavy tiled temple roofs. New city planning ideas based on the principle of layering or cocooning around an inner space (oku), a Japanese spatial concept that was adapted to urban needs, were adapted during reconstruction. Modernism became increasingly popular in architecture in Japan starting in the 1950s.\n\nMesoamerican architecture is the set of architectural traditions produced by pre-Columbian cultures and civilizations of Mesoamerica, (such as the Olmec, Maya, and Aztec) traditions which are best known in the form of public, ceremonial and urban monumental buildings and structures. The distinctive features of Mesoamerican architecture encompass a number of different regional and historical styles, which however are significantly interrelated. These styles developed throughout the different phases of Mesoamerican history as a result of the intensive cultural exchange between the different cultures of the Mesoamerican culture area through thousands of years. Mesoamerican architecture is mostly noted for its pyramids which are the largest such structures outside of Ancient Egypt.\n\nIncan architecture consists of the major construction achievements developed by the Incas. The Incas developed an extensive road system spanning most of the western length of the continent. Inca rope bridges could be considered the world's first suspension bridges. Because the Incas used no wheels (It would have been impractical for the terrain) or horses, they built their roads and bridges for foot and pack-llama traffic. Much of present-day architecture at the former Inca capital Cuzco shows both Incan and Spanish influences. The famous lost city Machu Picchu is the best surviving example of Incan architecture. Another significant site is Ollantaytambo. The Inca were sophisticated stone cutters whose masonry used no mortar.\n\nInside what is the present-day United States, the Mississippians and the Pueblo created substantial public architecture. The Mississippian culture was among the mound-building peoples, noted for construction of large earthen platform mounds.\n\nImpermanent buildings, which were often architecturally unique from region to region, continue to influence American architecture today. In his summary, \"The World of Textiles\", North Carolina State's Tushar Ghosh provides one example: the Denver International Airport's roof is a fabric structure that was influenced by and/or resembles the tipis of local cultures. In writing about Evergreen State College, Lloyd Vaughn lists an example of very different native architecture that also influenced contemporary building: the Native American Studies program is housed in a modern-day longhouse derived from pre-Columbian Pacific Northwest architecture.\n\nSurviving examples of medieval secular architecture mainly served for defense. Castles and fortified walls provide the most notable remaining non-religious examples of medieval architecture. Windows gained a cross-shape for more than decorative purposes: they provided a perfect fit for a crossbowman to safely shoot at invaders from inside. Crenellation walls (battlements) provided shelters for archers on the roofs to hide behind when not shooting.\n\nWestern European architecture in the Early Middle Ages may be divided into Early Christian and Pre-Romanesque, including Merovingian, Carolingian, Ottonian, and Asturian. While these terms are problematic, they nonetheless serve adequately as entries into the era. Considerations that enter into histories of each period include Trachtenberg's \"historicising\" and \"modernising\" elements, Italian versus northern, Spanish, and Byzantine elements, and especially the religious and political maneuverings between kings, popes, and various ecclesiastic officials.\n\nRomanesque, prevalent in medieval Europe during the 11th and 12th centuries, was the first pan-European style since Roman Imperial architecture and examples are found in every part of the continent. The term was not contemporary with the art it describes, but rather, is an invention of modern scholarship based on its similarity to Roman architecture in forms and materials. Romanesque is characterized by a use of round or slightly pointed arches, barrel vaults, and cruciform piers supporting vaults.\n\nThe various elements of Gothic architecture emerged in a number of 11th- and 12th-century building projects, particularly in the Île de France area, but were first combined to form what we would now recognise as a distinctively Gothic style at the 12th-century abbey church of Saint-Denis in Saint-Denis, near Paris. Verticality is emphasized in Gothic architecture, which features almost skeletal stone structures with great expanses of glass, pared-down wall surfaces supported by external flying buttresses, pointed arches using the ogive shape, ribbed stone vaults, clustered columns, pinnacles and sharply pointed spires. Windows contain beautiful stained glass, showing stories from the Bible and from lives of saints. Such advances in design allowed cathedrals to rise taller than ever, and it became something of an inter-regional contest to build a church as high as possible.\n\nThe Renaissance often refers to the Italian Renaissance that began in the 14th century, but recent research has revealed the existence of similar movements around Europe before the 15th century; consequently, the term \"Early Modern\" has gained popularity in describing this cultural movement. This period of cultural rebirth is often credited with the restoration of scholarship in the Classical Antiquities and the absorption of new scientific and philosophical knowledge that fed the arts.\n\nThe development from Medieval architecture concerned the way geometry mediated between the intangibility of light and the tangibility of the material as a way of relating divine creation to mortal existence. This relationship was changed in some measure by the invention of Perspective which brought a sense of infinity into the realm of human comprehension through the new representations of the horizon, evidenced in the expanses of space opened up in Renaissance painting, and helped shape new humanist thought.\n\nPerspective represented a new understanding of space as a universal, \"a priori\" fact, understood and controllable through human reason. Renaissance buildings therefore show a different sense of conceptual clarity, where spaces were designed to be understood in their entirety from a specific fixed viewpoint. The power of Perspective to universally represent reality was not limited to \"describing\" experiences, but also allowed it to anticipate experience itself by projecting the image back into reality.\nThe Renaissance spread to France in the late 15th century, when Charles VIII returned in 1496 with several Italian artists from his conquest of Naples. Renaissance chateaux were built in the Loire Valley, the earliest example being the Château d'Amboise, and the style became dominant under Francis I (1515–47). (See Châteaux of the Loire Valley). The Château de Chambord is a combination of Gothic structure and Italianate ornament, a style which progressed under architects such as Sebastiano Serlio, who was engaged after 1540 in work at the Château de Fontainebleau.\n\nArchitects such as Philibert Delorme, Androuet du Cerceau, Giacomo Vignola, and Pierre Lescot, were inspired by the new ideas. The southwest interior facade of the Cour Carree of the Louvre in Paris was designed by Lescot and covered with exterior carvings by Jean Goujon. Architecture continued to thrive in the reigns of Henry II and Henry III.\n\nIn England the first great exponent of Renaissance architecture was Inigo Jones (1573–1652), who had studied architecture in Italy where the influence of Palladio was very strong. Jones returned to England full of enthusiasm for the new movement and immediately began to design such buildings as the Queen's House at Greenwich in 1616 and the Banqueting House at Whitehall three years later. These works with their clean lines and symmetry, were revolutionary in a country still enamoured with mullion windows, crenellations and turrets.\nWith the rise of various European colonial empires from the 16th century onward through the early 20th century, the new stylistic trends of Europe were exported to or adopted by locations around the world, often evolving into new regional variations.\n\nThe periods of Mannerism and the Baroque that followed the Renaissance signaled an increasing anxiety over meaning and representation. Important developments in science and philosophy had separated mathematical representations of reality from the rest of culture, fundamentally changing the way humans related to their world through architecture. It would reach its most extreme and embellished development under the decorative tastes of Rococo.\n\nIn the late 17th and 18th centuries, the works and theories of Andrea Palladio (from 16th-century Venice) would again be interpreted and adopted in England, spread by the English translation of his I Quattro Libri dell'Architettura, and pattern books such as \"Vitruvius Brittanicus\" by Colen Campbell. This Palladian architecture and continued classical imagery would in turn go on to influence Thomas Jefferson and other early architects of the United States in their search for a new national architecture.\n\nBy the mid-18th century, there tended to be more restrained decoration and usage of authentic classical forms than in the Baroque, informed by increased visitation to classical ruins as part of the Grand Tour, coupled with the excavations of Pompeii and Herculaneum.\n\nFederal-style architecture is the name for the classicizing architecture built in North America between c. 1780 and 1830, and particularly from 1785 to 1815. This style shares its name with its era, the Federal Period. The term is also used in association with furniture design in the United States of the same time period. The style broadly corresponds to the middle-class classicism of Biedermeier style in the German-speaking lands, Regency style in Britain and to the French Empire style.\n\n\"What Style Shall We Build In?\" - Heinrich Hübsch.\n\nThe 19th century was dominated by a wide variety of stylistic revivals, variations, and interpretations. \n\nBeaux-Arts architecture denotes the academic classical architectural style that was taught at the École des Beaux Arts in Paris. The \"style \"Beaux-Arts\"\" is above all the cumulative product of two and a half centuries of instruction under the authority, first of the Académie royale d'architecture, then, following the Revolution, of the Architecture section of the Académie des Beaux-Arts. The organization under the Ancien Régime of the competition for the Grand Prix de Rome in architecture, offering a chance to study in Rome, imprinted its codes and esthetic on the course of instruction, which culminated during the Second Empire (1850–1870) and the Third Republic that followed. The style of instruction that produced Beaux-Arts architecture continued without a major renovation until 1968.\n\nAround 1900 a number of architects around the world began developing new architectural solutions to integrate traditional precedents with new social demands and technological possibilities. The work of Victor Horta and Henry van de Velde in Brussels, Antoni Gaudí in Barcelona, Otto Wagner in Vienna and Charles Rennie Mackintosh in Glasgow, among many others, can be seen as a common struggle between old and new.\n\nEarly Modern architecture began with a number of building styles with similar characteristics, primarily the simplification of form and the elimination of ornament, that first arose around 1900. By the 1940s these styles had largely consolidated and been identified as the International Style.\n\nThe exact characteristics and origins of modern architecture are still open to interpretation and debate. An important trigger appears to have been the maxim credited to Louis Sullivan: \"form follows function\". Functionalism, in architecture, is the principle that architects should design a building based on the purpose of that building. This statement is less self-evident than it first appears, and is a matter of confusion and controversy within the profession, particularly in regard to modern architecture.\n\nExpressionist architecture was an architectural movement that developed in Northern Europe during the first decades of the 20th century in parallel with the expressionist visual and performing arts.\n\nThe style was characterised by an early-modernist adoption of novel materials, formal innovation, and very unusual massing, sometimes inspired by natural biomorphic forms, sometimes by the new technical possibilities offered by the mass production of brick, steel and especially glass. Many expressionist architects fought in World War I and their experiences, combined with the political turmoil and social upheaval that followed the German Revolution of 1919, resulted in a utopian outlook and a romantic socialist agenda. Economic conditions severely limited the number of built commissions between 1914 and the mid-1920s, resulting in many of the most important expressionist works remaining as projects on paper, such as Bruno Taut's \"Alpine Architecture\" and Hermann Finsterlin's \"Formspiels\". Ephemeral exhibition buildings were numerous and highly significant during this period. Scenography for theatre and films provided another outlet for the expressionist imagination, and provided supplemental incomes for designers attempting to challenge conventions in a harsh economic climate.\n\nThe Art Deco style in architecture emerged in Paris just before World War I with the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées by Auguste Perret (1911-1913) and the Majorelle Building by Henri Sauvage (1913). Its revolutionary use of reinforced concrete, geometric forms, straight lines, and decorative sculpture applied to the outside of the building in plaques of marble, ceramics and stucco, and later in stainless steel, were a departure from Art Nouveau. The style reached its peak in the 1920s and 1930s, and took its name from the International Exhibition of Modern Industrial and Decorative Arts in Paris in 1925. Art Deco became especially popular in the United States in the late 1920s, where the style was used for skyscrapers including the Chrysler Building (1930) and Empire State Building (1931), and for lavish motion picture palaces including Radio City Music Hall (1932) in New York City and the Paramount Theater in Oakland, California. In the 1930s a stripped-down variation called Streamline Moderne emerged, which was inspired by the curving aerodynamic forms of ocean liners, airplanes and trains. Art Deco was used for office buildings, government buildings, train stations and movie theaters around the world in the 1930s, but declined rapidly at the end of the decade due to the Great Depression and intense criticism of the style by modernist architects such as Le Corbusier, who denounced what he felt was its excessive ornament. By 1939, the style was largely out of fashion and was replaced by the more austere International Style.\n\nThe International style was a major architectural trend of the 1920s and 1930s. The term usually refers to the buildings and architects of the formative decades of modernism, before World War II. The term had its origin from the name of a book by Henry-Russell Hitchcock and Philip Johnson which identified, categorised and expanded upon characteristics common to modernism across the world. As a result, the focus was more on the stylistic aspects of modernism. The basic design principles of the International Style thus constitute part of modernism.\n\nThe ideas of Modernism were developed especially in what was taught at the German Bauhaus School in Weimar (from 1919), Dessau (between 1926–32) and finally Berlin between 1932–33, under the leadership first of its founder Walter Gropius, then Hannes Meyer, and finally Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. Modernist theory in architecture resided in the attempt to bypass the question of what style a building should be built in, a concern that had overshadowed 19th-century architecture, and the wish to reduce form to its most minimal expression of structure and function. In the United States, Philip Johnson and Henry-Russell Hitchcock treated this new phenomenon in 1931 as if it represented a new style - the International Style, thereby misrepresenting its primary mission as merely a matter of eliminating traditional ornament. The core effort to pursue Modern architecture as an abstract, scientific programme was more faithfully carried forward in Europe, but issues of style always overshadowed its stricter and more puritan goals, not least in the work of Le Corbusier. \n\nModern architecture is generally characterized by simplification of form and creation of ornament from the structure and theme of the building. It is a term applied to an overarching movement, with its exact definition and scope varying widely. Modern architecture has continued into the 21st century as a contemporary style, especially for corporate office buildings. In a broader sense, modern architecture began at the turn of the 20th century with efforts to reconcile the principles underlying architectural design with rapid technological advancement and the modernization of society. It would take the form of numerous movements, schools of design, and architectural styles, some in tension with one another, and often equally defying such classification.\n\nCritical regionalism is an approach to architecture that strives to counter the placelessness and lack of meaning in Modern architecture by using contextual forces to give a sense of place and meaning. The term critical regionalism was first used by Alexander Tzonis and Liane Lefaivre and later more famously by Kenneth Frampton.\n\nFrampton put forth his views in \"Towards a Critical Regionalism: Six points of an architecture of resistance.\" He evokes Paul Ricœur's question of \"how to become modern and to return to sources; how to revive an old, dormant civilization and take part in universal civilization\". According to Frampton, critical regionalism should adopt modern architecture critically for its universal progressive qualities but at the same time should value responses particular to the context. Emphasis should be on topography, climate, light, tectonic form rather than scenography and the tactile sense rather than the visual. Frampton draws from phenomenology to supplement his arguments.\n\nPostmodern architecture is an international style whose first examples are generally cited as being from the 1950s, and which continues to influence present-day architecture. Postmodernity in architecture is generally thought to be heralded by the return of \"wit, ornament and reference\" to architecture in response to the formalism of the International Style of modernism. As with many cultural movements, some of postmodernism's most pronounced and visible ideas can be seen in architecture. The functional and formalized shapes and spaces of the modernist movement are replaced by unapologetically diverse aesthetics: styles collide, form is adopted for its own sake, and new ways of viewing familiar styles and space abound.\n\nClassic examples of modern architecture are the Lever House and the Seagram Building in commercial space, and the architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright or the Bauhaus movement in private or communal spaces. Transitional examples of postmodern architecture are the Portland Building in Portland and the Sony Building (New York City) (originally AT&T Building) in New York City, which borrows elements and references from the past and reintroduces color and symbolism to architecture. A prime example of inspiration for postmodern architecture lies along the Las Vegas Strip, which was studied by Robert Venturi in his 1972 book \"Learning from Las Vegas\" celebrating the strip's ordinary and common architecture. Venturi opined that \"Less is a bore\", inverting Mies Van Der Rohe's dictum that \"Less is more\".\n\nFollowing the postmodern movement, a renaissance of pre-modernist urban and architectural ideals established itself, with New Urbanism and New Classical architecture being prominent movements.\n\nDeconstructivism in architecture is a development of postmodern architecture that began in the late 1980s. It is characterized by ideas of fragmentation, non-linear processes of design, an interest in manipulating ideas of a structure's surface or skin, and apparent non-Euclidean geometry, (i.e., non-rectilinear shapes) which serve to distort and dislocate some of the elements of architecture, such as structure and envelope. The finished visual appearance of buildings that exhibit the many deconstructivist \"styles\" is characterised by a stimulating unpredictability and a controlled chaos.\n\nImportant events in the history of the deconstructivist movement include the 1982 Parc de la Villette architectural design competition (especially the entry from Jacques Derrida and Peter Eisenman and Bernard Tschumi's winning entry), the Museum of Modern Art's 1988 \"Deconstructivist Architecture\" exhibition in New York, organized by Philip Johnson and Mark Wigley, and the 1989 opening of the Wexner Center for the Arts in Columbus, designed by Peter Eisenman. The New York exhibition featured works by Frank Gehry, Daniel Libeskind, Rem Koolhaas, Peter Eisenman, Zaha Hadid, Coop Himmelblau, and Bernard Tschumi. Since the exhibition, many of the architects who were associated with Deconstructivism have distanced themselves from the term. Nonetheless, the term has stuck and has now, in fact, come to embrace a general trend within contemporary architecture.\n\nOn January 21, 2013 architects began preparations for constructing the world's first 3D-printed building. An industrial-scale 3D printer used high strength artificial marble. Companies around the world have 3D-printed numerous buildings, many only taking a few hours to be completed. 3D-printed buildings have been shown to be practical, cost effective, and environmentally friendly. The technology is being expanded to other frameworks.\n\nSustainable architecture is an important topic in contemporary architecture, including the trends of New Urbanism, New Classical architecture and Eco-cities.\n\n\n\nModernism\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "3392728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3392728", "title": "Inca architecture", "text": "Inca architecture\n\nIncan architecture is the most significant pre-Columbian architecture in South America. The Incas inherited an architectural legacy from Tiwanaku, founded in the 2nd century B.C.E. in present-day Bolivia. A core characteristic of the architectural style was to use the topography and existing materials of the land as part of the design. The capital of the Inca empire, Cuzco, still contains many fine examples of Inca architecture, although many walls of Inca masonry have been incorporated into Spanish Colonial structures. The famous royal estate of Machu Picchu (Machu Pikchu) is a surviving example of Inca architecture. Other significant sites include Sacsayhuamán and Ollantaytambo. The Incas also developed an extensive road system spanning most of the western length of the continent and placed their distinctive architecture along the way, thereby visually asserting their imperial rule along the frontier.\n\nInca buildings were made out of fieldstones or semi-worked stone blocks and dirt set in mortar; adobe walls were also quite common, usually laid over stone foundations. The material used in the Inca buildings depended on the region, for instance, in the coast they used large rectangular adobe blocks while in the Andes they used local stones.\nThe most common shape in Inca architecture was the rectangular building without any internal walls and roofed with wooden beams and thatch. There were several variations of this basic design, including gabled roofs, rooms with one or two of the long sides opened and rooms that shared a long wall. Rectangular buildings were used for quite different functions in almost all Inca buildings, from humble houses to palaces and temples. Even so, there are some examples of curved walls on Inca buildings, mostly in regions outside the central area of the empire. Two-story buildings were infrequent; when they were built the second floor was accessed from the outside via a stairway or high terrain rather than from the first floor. Wall apertures, including doors, niches and windows, usually had a trapezoidal shape; they could be fitted with double or triple jambs as a form of ornamentation. Other kinds of decoration were scarce; some walls were painted or adorned with metal plaques, in rare cases walls were sculpted with small animals or geometric patterns.\nThe most common composite form in Inca architecture was the \"kancha\", a rectangular enclosure housing three or more rectangular buildings placed symmetrically around a central courtyard. \"Kancha\" units served widely different purposes as they formed the basis of simple dwellings as well as of temples and palaces; furthermore, several \"kancha\" could be grouped together to form blocks in Inca settlements. A testimony of the importance of these compounds in Inca architecture is that the central part of the Inca capital of Cusco consisted of large \"kancha\", including Qurikancha and the Inca palaces. The best preserved examples of \"kancha\" are found at Ollantaytambo, an Inca settlement located along the Urubamba River.\n\nInca architecture is widely known for its fine masonry, which features precisely cut and shaped stones closely fitted without mortar (\"dry\"). However, despite this fame, most Inca buildings were actually made out of fieldstone and adobe as described above. In the 1940s, American archaeologist John H. Rowe classified Inca fine masonry in two types: coursed, which features rectangular shaped stones, and polygonal, which features blocks of irregular shape. Forty years later, Peruvian architect Santiago Agurto established four subtypes by dividing the categories identified by Rowe:\nThe first two types were used on important buildings or perimeter walls while the last two were employed mostly on terrace walls and river canalization.\nAccording to Graziano Gasparini and Luise Margolies, Inca stonemasonry was inspired by the architecture of Tiwanaku, an archaeological site in modern Bolivia built several centuries before the Inca Empire. They argue that according to ethnohistorical accounts the Incas were impressed by these monuments and employed large numbers of stoneworkers from nearby regions in the construction of their own buildings. In addition to these references, they also identified some formal similarities between Tiwanaku and Inca architecture including the use of cut and polished stone blocks, as well as of double jambs. A problem with this hypothesis is the question of how was expertise preserved in the three hundred years between the collapse of Tiwanaku and the appearance of the Inca Empire and its architecture. As a solution, John Hyslop has argued that the Tiahuanaco stonemasonry tradition was preserved in the Lake Titicaca region in sites such as Tanka Tanka, which features walls resembling Inca polygonal masonry.\n\nA second major influence on Inca architecture came from the Wari culture, a civilization contemporary to Tiwanaku. According to Ann Kendall, the Huari introduced their tradition of building rectangular enclosures in the Cusco region, which formed a model for the development of the Inca \"kancha\". There is evidence that such traditions were preserved in the Cusco region after the decline of the Wari as is attested by the enclosures found at sites such as Choquequirao (Chuqi K'iraw), 28 kilometers southeast of the Inca capital.\n\nWater engineer Ken Wright estimates that 60 percent of the Inca construction effort was underground. The Inca built their cities with locally available materials, usually including limestone or granite. To cut these hard rocks the Inca used stone, bronze or copper tools, usually splitting the stones along the natural fracture lines. Without the wheel the stones were rolled up with wood beams on earth ramps. Extraordinary manpower would have been necessary. Hyslop comments that the 'secret' to the production of fine Inca masonry “…was the social organization necessary to maintain the great numbers of people creating such energy-consuming monuments.” It is speculated that the stones were swung into place using friction to create perfectly convex and concave sides. Visible marks of facture like stone bosses were made using rope; these elements demonstrated the artistic value of labor and the power of Inca rule.\n\nUsually the walls of Incan buildings were slightly inclined inside and the corners were rounded. This, in combination with masonry thoroughness, led Incan buildings to have a peerless seismic resistance thanks to high static and dynamic steadiness, absence of resonant frequencies and stress concentration points. During an earthquake with a small or moderate magnitude, masonry was stable, and during a strong earthquake stone blocks were “ dancing ” near their normal positions and lay down exactly in right order after an earthquake.\n\nAnother building method was called \"pillow-faced\" architecture. Pillow faced building was achieved by using fired adobe bricks. The Incas would then sand large, finely shaped stones, and then they would fit the bricks and stones together in jigsaw like patterns. Pillow-faced architecture was typically used for temples and royal places like Machu Picchu.\n\nAshlar masonry was used in the most sacred, elite Inca structure; for example, the Acllawasi (\"House of the Chosen Woman\"), the Coricancha (\"Golden Enclosure\") in Cuzco, and the Sun Temple at Machu Picchu. Thus it seems that ashlar may have been more greatly valued by the Inca, perhaps considered more difficult than polygonal (\"pillow-faced\") masonry. Though polygonal masonry may be aesthetically more impressive, the facture of ashlar masonry tends to be unforgiving to mistakes; if a corner is broken in the process it can be reshaped to fit into the mosaic of polygonal masonry whereas you cannot recover a damaged rock in ashlar masonry.\n\nInca architecture is strongly characterized by its use of the natural environment. The Inca managed to seamlessly merge their architecture into the surrounding land and its specificities. At its peak, the Inca Empire spanned from Ecuador to Chile and Argentina. Yet despite geographic variances, Inca architecture remained consistent in its ability to visually blend the built and natural environment.\n\nIn particular, Inca walls practiced mortarless masonry and used partially worked, irregularly shaped rocks to complement the organic qualities and diversity of the natural environment. Through the dry fitted masonry techniques of caninacukpirca, the Incas shaped their stone to conceal natural outcrops, fit tight crevices, and ultimately incorporate the landscape into their infrastructure.\n\nThe Inca also used natural bedrock as their structural foundations (to help keep the buildings stable). This pragmatically stabilized their structures built in the Andes mountain range of South America, while aesthetically disguising the boundaries between mountain and edifice. In combination, the diversity of stone shape, materiality, and facture all furthered the naturalistic illusion of the Inca's built environment.\n\nInca employment and integration of the natural environment into their architecture played an essential role in their program of civilizational expansion and cultural imperialism. Patronage of powerful elites and rulers of the Inca empire was a major impetus behind the construction of Inca structures, and much of the remaining architecture we see today was most likely royal estates or mobile capitals for Sapa Inca to inhabit. The Sapa Inca naturalized and asserted their political rule through their palaces' aesthetic appeal to a reciprocal relationship between their imperialism and the earth itself. The blended, architectural aesthetic colored their political expansion in a sense of inseparable, timeless, and spiritual authority.For example, in the royal estate of Chinchero, the Incas adapted their large-scale earthwork and massive stone construction to the land's dramatically steep valley in order to create intense, visual drama. Similarly to the architecture of other mountainous Inca citadels, such as Machu Picchu, the Chinchero estate's dynamic construction into the severe landscape demonstrated the raw, physical power of the Incas, and projected an authoritative aura for those who approached.\n\nThe actual process of constructing the royal palaces served as an additional royal tactic of maintaining rule. Inca architecture demonstrates a commitment to the culturally pervasive, yet more physically difficult, process of mortarless, polygonal masonry and conscious accommodation of a land's natural topography. The upholding of these non-utilitarian practices of construction can give insight into Inca values concerning the artistic integrity and cultural meaning embedded within the process of building estates, and how the building of royal palaces can be understood as a physical enactment of political loyalty and communal subservience to the Sapa Inca.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11044343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11044343", "title": "International Ballet Festival of Havana", "text": "International Ballet Festival of Havana\n\nThe International Ballet Festival of Havana \"(Festival de Ballet de La Habana)\", is a ballet festival held in the Great Theater of Havana, Cuba and other locations like Karl Marx Theatre and Mella Theatre every two years. Created in 1960 by a joint effort of the Ballet Nacional de Cuba, the \"Instituto Nacional de la Industria Turística\" and the cultural organizations of the government, the International Ballet Festival of Havana was added to the plans of massive diffusion of arts started after the popular Cuban Revolution on January 1, 1959. The Festival, with its character, has allowed people to enjoy the performances and the works of prestigious figures of the world of the dance and has also shown to the visitors the high level reached by the Cuban ballet. Every two years, the Festival features over 20 performances and a few world premiers.\nIn the year 2000 it celebrated its 40th anniversary. This defines it as one of the oldest of all held in the world. Created in 1960 it quickly became one of the most transcendental events of the national Cuban culture and of the international Dance as well .\n\nThe years that followed the first three festivals, 1960, 1966 and 1967, were a long and fruitful work period recorded as one of the most beautiful pages in the history of the Ballet Nacional de Cuba since its casting was enriched with the first graduates from the \"Escuela Nacional de Ballet\" (National Ballet School), its consolidation as one of the dance companies of greatest international prestige and the heroic battles fought against the unfair barrier that didn’t allow its worldwide recognition. The 4th Festival was held in 1974 and was dedicated to the 2nd Congress of the \"Federación de Mujeres Cubanas\" and from that year on the festival was celebrated every two years and has emphasized this peculiar aspect that has characterized its work. The 5th Festival was dedicated to the 30th Anniversary of the Granma landing. The 6th festival was dedicated to the 30th anniversary of the Foundation of the Ballet Nacional de Cuba and to the 35th anniversary of Alicia Alonso’s debut in the role of Giselle. This festival also made an emphasis on “the premiere of works created for the company by well-known international choreographers, Cuban and foreign”.\n\nThe 7th festival was dedicated to highlight the \"relationship of ballet with the rest of the arts\" and in it together with the \"Premiere Nights\", \"Repertoire Nights\" with the usual works of the BNC and the \"Concerts of International Stars\", there were galas dedicated to the dramatic theater, the plastic arts, the music, the cinema, the folklore and the literature as well as special galas dedicated to the birthday of the great Russian choreographer Mikhail Fokin and to the ballet Giselle on occasion of the performance of the couple made up by the Prima Ballerina Assoluta Alicia Alonso and the famous Russian dancer Vladimir Vasiliev. The 8th festival gave special attention to \"The presence of Latin America in its choreographic creation\" allowed knowing roots, experiences, ways and achievements of the dance in the continent. A transcendental event was the beginning, parallel to the festival, of the First International Practical Course of the Cuban School of Ballet, that was attended by dancers, advanced students and observers from eleven American and European countries as well as a big Cuban representation that created a tradition that stands up to now.\n\nThe 9t. Festival put an emphasis on \"The styles and the choreographers\", this made possible to see a panoramic of the principal choreographic landmarks that ballet has known throughout its history. The 10th celebration was a great opportunity for the festival to be a great party of art and friendship with the presence of hundreds of guests among them famous stars and dance companies coming from all over the world who, together with the members of the Ballet Nacional de Cuba and other groups, carried out a varied program.\n\nThe 11th. Festival was dedicated to two important anniversaries: the 150th anniversary of the Gran Teatro de La Habana, the oldest theatrical institution of the country and the 40th anniversary of the foundation of the Ballet Nacional de Cuba. The 12th. Had a slogan: \"Past, present and choreographic future\" and showed a rich sample of styles and tendencies present in the dance of our times. Festival 13th emphasized in \"The Iberian American presence in the art of ballet\" while it commemorated the 5th Centennial of the Encounter of the American and European Cultures and faithful to this credo participated in the festival important companies, stars and personalities of the dance in Spain and Iberian America that offered a rich sample arisen from the talent and common zeal of these cultural aspects. The 14th. Festival pointed out \"The diversity and richness of the choreographic art\" with an attractive offer of styles and tendencies within the academic, contemporary and folkloric dance and where galas dedicated to Romanticism and Classicism excelled as well as concert programs with Cuban and foreign artists and the performances of nearly a dozen guest companies.\n\nThe 15th Festival emphasized on \"The composers or musical styles that had the greatest influence in dance\". There were galas dedicated to Cuban and French composers, to baroque composers, to Frédéric Chopin, Igor Stravinski and Manuel de Falla- to commemorate the 120th anniversary of his birthday and the 50th of his death-, and as well to the Russian composer Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, key figure in the classic ballet.\n\nThe 16th Festival was dedicated to a transcendental anniversary: the \"50th Anniversary of the foundation of the Ballet Nacional de Cuba\". Hundreds of guests were present on this occasion among them companies such as Julio Bocca’s from Argentina, the \"Ballet of Zaragoza\", the Spanish Ballet of Murcia (Spain), the \"Soloist Group from the Komische Opera of Berlin\" and the \"Great Dessau Theater\" (Germany) the \"Diastases Group\" (Cyprus), the Company dance Theater of Turin (Italy); Introdans \"Ensemble Voor der Jeugd\" (Netherlands) as well as \"Kennedy's Tap Dance Company\" and The \"Alvin Ailey Repertory Ensemble\", both from the United States. The guest list was made up by the famous Italian ballerina Carla Fracci, who came to give prestige to this event after 24 years of her first visit in 1974, as well as stars belonging to well-known companies such as the Paris Opera Ballet, the Ballet of the Teatro alla Scala from Milan, the American Ballet Theatre, the New York City Ballet, the Bolshoi Ballet of Moscow, the Ballet Estable of the Colon Theater from Argentina, the Royal Danish Ballet, the Ballet of the Opera of Berlin, the National Hungarian Ballet, the Classical Ballet of Guangzhou, China, the Ballet of the Municipal Theater of Rio de Janeiro, and the National Dance Company of Mexico, among others. Collateral activities such as the presentation of the book Ballet Nacional de Cuba: \"Half a Century of Glory\", written by the historian Miguel Cabrera, a stamp cancellation, photographic and plastic arts and movie and video exhibitions were part of the festival. Two important moments in this festival were the inauguration of the Dance Museum and the celebration of the 1st Iberian American Choreographic Competition organized by the General Society of Authors and Editors (SGAE), the Author's Foundation and the Ballet Nacional de Cuba.\n\nThe 17th Festival was dedicated to highlight \"the principal creators and choreographic tendencies that have enriched ballet in the 20th century\" and in it were present besides the Cubans, six foreign companies among them the Ballet of Washington, the folkloric Ballet of Puebla, The \"Da Capo company and the Dance Group\" (Azahar) from Valencia, Spain. There were also other representatives from seventeen countries of America, Asia and Australia. The 18th festival was inaugurated by Fidel Castro, President of the State and Ministers Council of Cuba and the festival slogan was \"Past, present and future of the dance\". Four foreign companies among them the Dessau Ballett from Germany, and the choreographic Center of Valencia, Spain were present as well as seven Cuban companies and dancers, choreographers and special guests coming from fifteen countries of America, Europe and Asia. During the event it was announced the winning work of the 3rd Iberian American Choreographic Competition that corresponded to the Cuban George Enrique Céspedes’ work \"Por favor, no me limites...\", and a wide repertoire that performed in galas and concerts showed the representative works of the most valuable romantic-classical inheritance of the 19th century, as well as contemporary creations of Cuban and foreign choreographers. A wide group of collateral activities that included plastic arts, photographic and movie exhibitions and conferences, enriched the festival.\n\nAfter more than four decades of work, the International Ballet Festival of Havana goes forward keeping its creative potentiality in the promisory future of the 21st century.\n\nThroughout its more than four decades of productive existence, possible thanks to the agglutinative gift of Alicia Alonso and the unmovable support of the cultural organizations of the Cuban state, the International Ballet Festival of Havana has wished and known how to be a meeting of the best of art endowed with a typical feature that at the same time that singles it out, contributes to strengthen its well earned prestige. Enough to say that in these forty-two years of existence, fifty-eight foreign companies have been present and about a thousand guests (dancers, choreographers, pedagogues, designers, soloists, composers, critics and observers) coming from fifty-two countries of the five continents. The known encouragement offered to the creation not only of Cuban choreographers but foreign ones as well representatives of the most valuable and different tendencies of the contemporary art of the dance, has made possible the premiere of 777 works, 198 of them were world premieres and 579 were premieres in Cuba. Its multiple collateral activities (photographic and plastic arts, cinema exhibitions, philatelic and poster editions as well as editions of specialized books, among others).\n\nAustria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Spain, Russian Federation, Finland, France, United Kingdom, Greece, Netherlands, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, West Germany, East Germany, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, Soviet Union and Yugoslavia.\n\nPhilippines, Japan, Vietnam, China, Israel and Kazakhstan\n\nAngola, Algeria, Egypt, Guinea.\n\nCanada, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Martinique, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Puerto Rico, and United States.\n\nAustralia.\n\nArgentina, Brazil, Colombia, Chile, Ecuador, French Guiana, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela.\n\nTotal: 56 countries\n\nWorld premieres: 198\n\nPremieres in Cuba: 579\n\nTotal: 777 premieres\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30862561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862561", "title": "Kalamkari", "text": "Kalamkari\n\nKalamkari is a type of hand-painted or block-printed cotton textile, produced in Indian states of Andhra Pradesh and Telengana. Only natural dyes are used in \"Kalamkari\" and it involves twenty three steps. \n\nThere are two distinctive styles of kalamkari art in India - Srikalahasti style and the Machilipatnam style. The Srikalahasti style of \"Kalamkari\"(Kalankari), wherein the \"\"kalam\" or pen is used for freehand drawing of the subject and filling in the colors, is entirely hand worked. This style flowered around temples and their patronage and so had an almost religious identity - scrolls, temple hangings, chariot banners and the like, depicted deities and scenes taken from the Hindu epics - Ramayana, Mahabharata, Puranas and the mythological classics. This style owes its present status to Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay who popularized the art as the first Chairperson of the All India Handicrafts Board. \n\nHistorically, Kalamkai use to be known as \"Pattachitra\", an art form still found in neighboring Odisha and other parts of India and Nepal. The term \"Pattachitra\"\" in (Sanskrit:पट्टचित्र) translates to \"Patta\" meaning \"cloth\" and \"Chitra\" means \"picture\". Paintings made on fabric and fabric scrolls finds mentioned in ancient Hindu, Buddhist and Jain literature. \n\nUnder medieval Islamic rule, the term Kalamkari Persian, which is derived from the words k\"alam\" (pen) and \"kari\" (craftmanship), meaning drawing with a pen came to be in popular use under the patronage of Golconda sultanate.\n\nIn ancient times, groups of singers, musicians and painters, called \"chitrakars\", moved from village to village to tell the village dwellers, the great stories of Hindu mythology. They illustrated their accounts using large bolts of canvas painted on the spot with simple means and dyes extracted from plants. In the same way, one found in the Hindu temples large panels of \"kalamkari\" depicting the episodes of Indian mythology, similar to Buddhist Thangka paintings.\n\nAs an art form it found its peak in the wealthy Golconda sultanate, Hyderabad, in the Middle Ages. The Mughals who patronized this craft in the Coromandel and Golconda province called the practitioners of this craft \"\"qualamkars\", from which the term \"kalamkari\"\" evolved. The Pedana Kalamkari craft made at Pedana nearby Machilipatnam in Krishna district, Andhra Pradesh, evolved with the patronage of the Mughals and the Golconda sultanate. Owing to the said patronage, this school was influenced by Persian art under Islamic rule.\n\n\"Kalamkari\" art has been practiced by many families in Andhra Pradesh, some villages in Tamilnadu (Sickinaickanpettai) by migrants from Telugu speaking families and over the generations has constituted their livelihood. \"Kalamkari\" had a certain decline, then it was revived in India and abroad for its craftsmanship. Since the 18th century the British have enjoyed the decorative element for clothing.\n\nIn middle ages the term is also used to refer, incorrectly, to the making of any cotton fabric patterned through the medium of vegetable dyes by free-hand painting and block-printing, produced in many different regions of India. In places where the fabric is block printed the \"kalam\" (pen) is used to draw finer details and for application of some colours.First it was introduce \nin blue colour.\n\nIn modern times it's replaced by digital. The art took a turn-over and updated digitally to fit in the glove of time. In this era new types and new techniques are introduced and the \"digital files\" of kalamkari (pen work) is totally introduced widely all over the regions of India and Iran (Persia).\n\nSeeping it in astringents and buffalo milk and then drying it under the sun. Afterwards, the red, black, brown, and violet portions of the designs are outlined with a mordant and cloth is then placed in a bath of alizarin. The next step is to cover the cloth, except for the parts to be dyed blue, in wax, and immerse the cloth in indigo dye. The wax is then scraped off and remaining areas are painted by hand, similar to Indonesian \"batik\".\n\nTo create design contours, artists use a bamboo or date palm stick pointed at one end with a bundle of fine hair attached to this pointed end to serve as the brush or pen. This pen is soaked in a mixture of fermented jaggery and water; one by one these are applied, then the vegetable dyes.\n\nIn Iran, the fabric is printed using patterned wooden stamps.\n\nDyes for the cloth are obtained by extracting colors from various roots, leaves, and mineral salts of iron, tin, copper, and alum. Various effects are obtained by using cow dung, seeds, plants and crushed flowers to obtain natural dye. Along with buffalo milk, myrobalan is used in \"kalamkari\". \"Myrobalan\" is also able to remove the odd smell of buffalo milk. The fixing agents available in the \"myrobolan\" can easily fix the dye or color of the textile while treating the fabric. Alum is used in making natural dyes and also while treating the fabric. Alum ensures the stability of the color in \"kalamkari\" fabric.\n\n\"Kalamkari\" specifically depicts epics such as the Ramayana or Mahabharata. However, there are recent applications of the \"kalamkari\" technique to depict Buddha and Buddhist art forms.\n\n"}
{"id": "13332395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13332395", "title": "Katanga Cross", "text": "Katanga Cross\n\nA Katanga Cross, also called a handa, is a cast copper ingot in the shape of a cross which was once used as a form of currency in parts of what is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Katanga crosses were made in various sizes, typically about across, and weighing about . The name derives from Katanga, a rich copper mining region in the south-eastern portion of the DRC.\n\nThese X-shaped ingots were cast by local coppersmiths by pouring molten copper into sand molds.\n\nDuring its period of currency, a Katanga cross would buy about of flour, five or six fowls, or six axes. Ten would buy a gun.[Opitz-p.124] \n\nIn 1960, Katanga unilaterally seceded from the newly-independent Congo-Léopoldville and declared its own independence as the State of Katanga. The Katanga state used the cross as a national symbol; three red katanga crosses appeared in the lower hoist of its flag. Coins issued by Katanga in 1961 also depicted the Katanga Cross. The State of Katanga was forcibly reunited with the Congo in 1963.\n\n"}
{"id": "53961679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53961679", "title": "Klaus (comics)", "text": "Klaus (comics)\n\nKlaus is a seven-issue comic book mini-series published in 2015 and 2016 by Boom! Studios. It was created by writer Grant Morrison and artist Dan Mora.\n\nThe comic is styled as an origin story, based on the re-imagining of Santa Claus as a superhero.\n\nA one shot, \"Klaus and the Witch of Winter\" was released beginning in December 2016 followed by another one shot \"Klaus and the Crisis in X-Masville\" in December 2017.\n\nIn medieval times, an independent trapper named Klaus enters the walled town of Grimsvig to trade furs and hides, and is distressed to find it much changed since the last time he was there. The town is ruled by the tyrannical Lord Magnus, who has conscripted nearly all of the town's men to labor in the nearby coal mine, and has instructed his guardsmen to systematically deprive the townspeople of joy, including canceling the annual Yuletide celebration and confiscating any toys or musical instruments to give to his spoiled young son, Jonas. Magnus himself rarely leaves his castle, shut in with his unhappy wife, Dagmar, and Jonas.\n\nDeclaring that they do not trust strangers, the guardsmen confiscate Klaus's wares. At first he does not protest, but is outraged when one of the guardsmen strikes a nearby child, and is badly beaten when he tries to stop it. Marched outside the walls to be executed, he is saved by his pet white wolf, Lilli. Making camp in the forest, he falls asleep and is visited by the spirits of the forest. When he wakes up, he is stunned to see he has carved a large bag of wooden toys in his sleep.\n\nDespite the walls and sealed gates, Klaus slips into Grimsvig at night and distributes the toys among the children of the poorest families, and defacing a portrait of Magnus. Seeing the children playing in the streets, an outraged Magnus has his guards confiscate the toys, claiming that Jonas is dangerously ill and needs them more than the other children. When he demands to know who the mysterious intruder is, one child responds, \"it was the \"Julernisse\"... the Yuletime Spirit.\"\n\nJonas is furious when the confiscated toys fail to give him any joy, and smashes them in a rage. His mother, Dagmar, notes one's resemblance to a carved bird from her childhood, which she has kept hidden, and realizes who the mysterious man is.\n\nWhen night falls again, Klaus tries to reach the gates, knocking out several guards (and building one into a snowman as a joke), before he is cornered by a pack of hunting dogs.\n\nThe dogs are driven off by Lilli, allowing Klaus to escape the town. The guardsmen begin to whisper that the intruder is a ghost or a shape-shifter, while the children begin writing wishes on pieces of paper. Magnus orders his men to guard the doors of every house, so the children burn these wishes in their fireplaces, hoping they will reach \"The Santa\" through the chimneys.\n\nMagnus takes a grimoire from his library and enters the deepest part of the coal mine, alone, saying he has followed \"the voice\"'s instructions and soon it will be free.\n\nIn flashback, Klaus's story is told: as an infant, he was discovered in the forest, clutched in the arms of his mother, who had frozen to death, but miraculously alive himself. He was adopted by Grimsvig's guard commander, Karl, who named him \"Klaus\", \"Victory of the People.\" As a boy, he befriended the lord's daughter, Dagmar, giving her a wooden toy bird to replace her deceased pet. They grew up together as best friends, while the young Magnus looked on jealously.\n\nLater, while the young Klaus was a captain of the town guard, Magnus poisoned the lord and put the blame on him, driving him outside the walls to die, but he was saved by Lilli, whose life he had spared while she was still a cub.\n\nIn the present, Klaus enters Dagmar's window and confronts her, asking her how she could have thought him guilty of poisoning her father, or how she could have chosen Magnus over him. She has no answer, but he gives her a single toy for Jonas. At first, Jonas wants to smash it, but she sits down and encourages him to tell a story with it, and soon the two of them are playing happily, before Magnus interrupts them. He has a plan to trap \"the Santa\", using Jonas to write a wish letter.\n\nJonas admits to Dagmar that Magnus frightened him into writing the letter by showing him the grimoire from the library. Before she can find it for herself, Magnus walks in on her, half-crazed, believing he is surrounded by enemies, in spite of everything he has done to make himself powerful and thus make life better for her and Jonas.\n\nJonas's letter lures Klaus into a trap laid by Magnus's men, and he is barely able to escape the walls, wounded by a poisoned arrow.\n\nA young boy from the town, with Lilli's help, drags Klaus to his cabin in the woods, where he treats his poisoned wound, but Magnus and his guards follow them there, burning down the cabin and leaving Klaus staked to the surface of a frozen lake, expecting him to die of exposure.\n\nIn preparation for a visit from the King, Magnus has the children of the town rounded up and herded into a room in the castle, where they are offered sweets to stuff themselves with. On the same night, a coal miner finally cracks the cell, releasing a huge demon. The demon enters the main hall of the castle, demanding its promised \"feast\" - the captive children.\n\nOutside Grimsvig, Klaus is visited again by the forest spirits and \"changed,\" imbued with new strength and told to \"make [things] better.\"\n\nThe boy who helped Klaus earlier leads the other captive children out of their cell and through the castle. In the main hall, Magnus's joy at the demon's arrival turns to horror when it attacks Jonas. He opens the grimoire to find the spell to command the demon, only for the demon to laugh and tell him that it used him to gain its freedom, and he has no power over it. Dagmar distracts the demon with an arrow and tells Jonas to run. Jonas meets the other fleeing children before they are all cornered by the demon. Before it can devour any of them, Klaus appears on a flying sleigh pulled by eight white wolves, and wielding a greatsword.\n\nKlaus subdues the demon, but is stabbed from behind by Magnus, who demands that the demon fulfill its half of their bargain: giving him the kingship, and the love of his family and the people. Dagmar, finally admitting to herself that Magnus murdered her father, tells him that all the evil and misery in Grimsvig is his doing alone, and walks away from him with Jonas. Unhinged, Magnus screams at the demon to give him what he deserves - which it does by breathing fire and incinerating him.\n\nThe demon seizes Jonas and converts Klaus's sleigh into a dark chariot pulled by hell hounds, and flies into the sky, declaring that \"all bad children belong to me!\"\n\nKlaus arises, telling Dagmar that the forest spirits have made him immortal. He leaps to a rooftop and jumps onto the chariot, declaring that \"there are no bad children!\" As the chariot flies into the upper atmosphere, the demon tries to burn Klaus, but its fiery breath doesn't ignite in the thin air, and with his trademark \"Ho Ho Ho\", Klaus beheads it. The demon's body plummets back to earth, and Klaus returns, in his now-restored sleigh, with Jonas. Dagmar promises the King that, with Klaus as her advisor, she will act as regent of the town, and undo her husband's wickedness.\n\nThe Yuletide festival is held every year from then on, and the town recovers its joy, even Jonas, who abandons his old selfishness and learns to play with other children.\n\nAs the years pass, Dagmar ages, but Klaus remains the same. After her funeral, Jonas, now middle-aged and the new lord of the town, sees Klaus preparing to depart in his sleigh to bring joy to the rest of the world, but promising to return once every year, when things are at their darkest.\n\nThe series was released as a single volume in 2016 ()\n"}
{"id": "30858864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30858864", "title": "List of Slayers characters", "text": "List of Slayers characters\n\nThis is a list of major characters from the Japanese anime, manga and light novel series Slayers. The series of novels written by Hajime Kanzaka was serialized in \"Dragon Magazine\", adapted into several manga titles, five televised anime series, two three-episode original video animations, and five anime films. \"Slayers\" follows the adventures of teenage sorceress Lina Inverse and her companions as they journey through their world. Using powerful magic and swordsmanship, they battle difficult overreaching wizards, demons seeking to destroy the world, dark lords, and the occasional hapless gang of bandits.\n\n is the main protagonist and central figure of the \"Slayers\" franchise. Although still a teenager, she is a powerful sorceress with a great love of money, treasure, and food. In the anime and manga, she is known to comically overuse immensely destructive spells.\n\nHer specialty is black magic, a destructive magic that calls upon the power of a demon or monster. Her signature spell, the Dragon Slave, comes from the power of the Demon King Shabranigdo, while the Ragna Blade and her most powerful spell the Giga Slave call upon the Lord of Nightmares. During the series, Lina and the Slayers face down and defeat many powerful demons, including a fragment of Shabranigdo, Hellmaster Phibrizzo, and Darkstar.\n\nGourry has been Lina's constant companion since the opening of the series, and never leaves her for very long. Lina once risks the destruction of the world by casting the unpredictable Giga Slave in order to save Gourry's life. Although the two appear to be in love with each other, and even share a forgotten kiss at the end of \"Slayers NEXT\", there is no romantic development between them.\n\n is a wandering swordsman who meets Lina at the beginning of the series, and accompanies her from then on as a self-appointed bodyguard. A characterization of Gourry from his manga profile is \"as loyal as man's best friend, but not quite as smart\".\n\nGourry is somewhat less than scholarly and appears to have memory deficiencies. However, his skills as a swordsman are unmatched throughout the franchise, especially when armed with his family's magic blade, the Sword of Light, also known as Gorun Nova. He has a high magic capacity and the potential to cast spells that rival Lina's power, but because of his faulty memory and disinterest, he cannot remember spells well enough to ever use them. His consideration for others and absolute loyalty to Lina are his most noted traits.\n\nGourry eventually falls in love with Lina, which he expresses through his promise that he will guard her for the rest of his life. He is not as shy about his feelings as Lina is, and unlike her he won't violently deny it when asked. He doesn't act on them, though, and he seems content with merely watching out for Lina's well-being. They do share a kiss in the final episode of \"Slayers NEXT\", the second series of the anime, though neither remembers it.\n\n is a sorcerer who begins as a retainer for his ancestor Rezo, an enemy of Lina. He is a chimera made of rock, golem, \"brau\" (English \"blow\") demon, and human.\n\nZelgadis specializes in Shamanistic magic, which pulls its power from the astral, or spiritual, plane. His elemental spells, including Stone Spiker and the mighty Ra-Tilt, are formidable. Since he is part blow demon, he is unable to cast black magic, as doing so would require him to call upon the power of another demonic being——which, in the \"Slayers\" universe, is akin to willing oneself out of existence. Though he is not as learned in the art as Lina, Zelgadis' even combination of physical force and magical finesse render him among the most fearsome warriors.\n\nZelgadis is an enigma to his comrades, due to his quiet and asocial nature. Despite traveling with Lina and her friends, he considers himself separate from them and even a little bit evil, as \"the heartless mystical swordsman\" of the group. When he was a teenager, Rezo transformed him into a three-part chimera. He travels with the Slayers to find a spell that can change him back into a human. Despite the incredible abilities bestowed upon him by the transformation, he dislikes his appearance; his skin is stone hard, tinged blue-grey with pebbles scattered across its surface, and his hair is as stiff as steel wire. During \"Slayers Evolution-R\", Rezo informs Zelgadis that he knows of no cure to return him to human. It is unclear whether this means that Zelgadis will forever remain a chimera, or if Rezo's knowledge was simply limited in that respect; but Hajime Kanzaka, the author of the series, has stated in past interviews that Zelgadis would probably eventually find his cure.\n\nOut of everyone in the group, Zelgadis seems closest to Amelia. This becomes more clear in \"Slayers NEXT\", as he becomes upset whenever she is hurt, and almost sacrifices his own life protecting her from Gaav. In later seasons, they become quite close and he opens up to her. When they part at the end of the last episode of \"Slayers TRY\", the third season of the anime, she apparently gives him \"The Lady's Favour\" in the form of one of the pink bracelets from her standard costume.\n\n is a young priestess and the princess of Seyruun. She longs to be a \"hero of justice\" and quixotically pursues her quest for justice by following Lina and fighting those who appear to be villains. Amelia's naïve tendency to believe whatever she is told sometimes leads her to mistake friend and foe. In the novels, Amelia is the same age as Lina, but in the anime and manga franchise, Amelia is a year younger than Lina and smaller (though very busty, much to Lina's annoyance).\n\nHer perspective on good and evil evolves significantly as the series progresses. Although Lina is often annoyed with Amelia for her naïveté, her desire to learn the Dragon Slave, and her larger bust size, eventually Lina comes to accept her as a friend and treats her like a little sister.\n\nMost of Amelia's lessons in justice and heroism came from her father Prince Philionel of Seyruun, the \"ultimate pacifist\". After the murder of her mother, Amelia vowed never to use blades, though she once used the Sword of Light to channel the Ra-Tilt. Naga the Serpent is Amelia's long-lost older sister, the crown princess Gracia. This is played to comedic effect in \"Slayers Evolution-R\", with the amnesiac character \"Nama\" ironically alluding to the relation.\n\nAmelia becomes close friends with everyone in the group, but it is clear that early on she starts to develop feelings for Zelgadis. Their first meeting was not a very good one, but they become quite close as they tend to be paired during missions. Amelia teases him playing chess, or angrily beats him over his maltreatment of innocent forest animals, and gets away without so much as an angry glare.\n\n, or Naga the White Serpent, is a powerful sorceress with an unstable but resilient personality. She is obsessed with Lina, and follows the younger sorceress around for some time, annoying Lina with her characteristic cackling laugh.\n\nNaga's main spells, such as Freeze Arrow, are water- and ice-based, in direct opposition to Lina's fire-based skills. She has also shown the ability to use powerful shamanistic, white magic, and necromancy spells. Her true name is Gracia Ul Naga Seyruun; she is the daughter of Prince Philionel and Amelia's older sister. Naga left home after her mother was murdered.\n\nNaga herself appears only in the OVAs and films, not in the main anime series. However, she does make a cameo appearance in \"Slayers Evolution-R\" as \"Nama\", a sentient suit of armor who remembers very little about her life before her soul was placed in the living armor. Her identity is never confirmed, but Nama's familiar laugh gives Lina chills.\n\n is a young cleric who has known Gourry since childhood. She became infatuated with Gourry to the point where she refers to him as \"Dear Gourry\" or \"Gourry Dear\" (translated from \"Gourry-Sama\" in the original Japanese, a show of respect), but Gourry only remembers her for her good cooking.\n\nShe is weak in shamanism and black magic. However, as a cleric, her skills in white magic (healing and protection) are impressive. Her defensive magic is powerful enough to easily hold its own against both Copy Rezo and Zanaffar in the finale of \"Slayers Revolution\". With her healing magic she is able to bring Lina back from the brink of death using a high level resurrection spell, mainly due to her profession as a shrine maiden. Ironically, in \"Slayers NEXT\", she manages to use Lina's signature black magic spell, the Dragon Slave. Her only other offensive spell, Flare Arrow, is comically pathetic: slow, weak and shaped like a carrot or beet.\n\nIn the anime, Sylphiel joins the Slayers for the end of the first series, and again near the end of the second series \"NEXT\". She reappears in \"Slayers Revolution\" during the attack on Seiruun.\n\n is a high-level monster (translated from \"Mazoku\" in the original Japanese) who is more than 1,000 years old. He first appears in the second episode of \"Slayers NEXT\". Most often, Xellos goes by simply his first name. In the sixth \"Slayers\" novel \"Vezendi's Shadow\", Xellos says his real name is \"Xellos the Mysterious Priest\". In the anime, he is called the \"trickster priest\" by many, including himself, and \"namagomi\" (\"raw garbage\") by Filia. In the English version, he is also known as Beastmaster Xellos. Some have called him Xellos Metallium after his master Zelas.\n\nAccording to Demon Dragon King Gaav, Xellos was created by Shabranigdo and given powers beyond any monster outside the five Demon Lords. He seems to serve various monster lords, including Hellmaster Phibrizzo, but his true master is Zelas Metallium, another of the Demon Lords, for whom he acts as both priest and general. Dragons fear Xellos and see him as their mortal enemy after he killed half the population during the War of the Monster's Fall.\n\nXellos is sometimes a hindrance, sometimes a help to the Slayers. His actions appear frustratingly inconsistent because of his oft-changing loyalties at his master's request. His catchphrase response to any important question is \"That is a secret!\" (from \"Sore wa himitsu desu!\").\n\n is the princess of the kingdom of Zoana who appears exclusively in the \"Slayers Next\" television series as a main character. She has green hair styled in drills. She specializes in curses through the power of Lord Zoamelgustar, a fictional monster that she worships; surprisingly, her curses actually work, even though Zoamelgustar does not exist. At the beginning of the series, she and her father plot to capture Amelia, but Lina saves Amelia and then casts a Dragon Slave to destroy Martina's castle, She then runs off and learns magic so that she can take revenge. She later joins Lina and the gang on their adventures. The episode \"Bitter Curve Balls! Gutsy Fast Balls!\" reveals her full name to be , named after tennis superstar Martina Navratilova. When Hellmaster Phibrizzo kills her during the final battle, Martina uses her last moments to encourage Lina to keep fighting and save Gourry. Martina is fickle in her love affairs, obsessed with whatever man she happens to see first on any given day. At first she is hung up on Zelgadis, but her interests switch to Gourry and even Xellos as the series progresses, before settling on Zangulus. She eventually marries Zangulus. Lina and the gang remark that Martina is the comic relief character in their party.\n\n is a priestess of the Fire Dragon King who appears exclusively in \"Slayers TRY\". As a Golden Dragon, she has a pronounced sense of honor and is dedicated to \"fulfilling her duties to the temple\". Any monster that crosses her path annoys her, and she doesn't get along with Xellos at all. She carries a large mace (affectionately dubbed \"Mace-sama\") in her garter, and uses it to end most of her arguments.\n\nFilia's Golden Dragon magic from the outer world is a raw, more intense form of white magic. Amelia states that the white magic used by clerics is only an \"empty shell\" of Filia's ancient holy magic. Filia's skills include clairvoyance, healing, purification, transportation, and offensive spells effective against the most powerful monster. Her spell Chaotic Disintegrate is an astral offensive spell that outclasses the Ra-Tilt. Filia is able to switch back and forth with ease between her dragon and human forms. Her dragon's form comically wears a pink bow on the end of her tail. While in dragon form, Filia can fly, surpassing the speed of a normal Ray Wing levitation spell. Her Laser Breath, which fires an incredibly destructive beam from a dragon's mouth, can be used in both human and dragon forms.\n\nFilia originally wanted Lina's big sister Luna to accompany her on her quest, but Luna refuses and suggests Lina as a replacement. At the end of \"Slayers TRY\", Filia accepts the egg of the reborn Valgaav in repentance for what her ancestors did to his kind, and raises him as his adoptive mother.\n\n, full name , is an original character created exclusively for \"Slayers Revolution\" and \"Slayers Evolution-R\", though he borrows certain elements from the character Luke seen in the \"Slayers\" novels. He resembles a small stuffed animal with large ears that double as a set of functional arms used for casting spells, wielding swords, or gliding through the air. Like Lina, he is a powerful sorcerer capable of casting various spells, including the Dragon Slave. He wields a replica of the Sword of Light, which he carries in a pocket in his chest.\n\nPokota was born a human, the prince of Taforashia. When he was a teenager, the Durum sickness swept through Taforashia, and the king became very ill. Rezo the Red Priest appeared and sealed the residents of Taforashia in sleeping chambers to isolate them until a cure was found. In this way he sealed Pokota's human body, but he used the magical Hellmaster's Jar to transfer Pokota's spirit into his current form. Years later, Pokota is searching for Rezo in order to find a way to revive his people.\n\n is one of the \"Five Wisemen of the Age\", a world-famous priest and healer. According to Zelgadis, Rezo is over a century old. However, he does not look his age. In the first novel, Lina describes him as looking \"both young and old\" at the same time. Rezo's only known relative is Zelgadis Graywords, who is either his grandson or great-grandson.\n\nRezo was born with one of the seven pieces of Ruby-Eye Shabranigdo sealed within his eyes. As a result, he is gifted with superior magic ability, but cursed with blindness. He began studying white magic in an effort to cure his blindness, not realizing its origin. Once he mastered white magic, he traveled the land healing the sick and blind, performing miracles. However, he was never able to cure his own eyes, so he turned to shamanism and black magic, becoming increasingly obsessed with finding any possible cure while the fragment of Shabranigdo corrupted his soul. He comes to the conclusion that Demon Lord Shabranigdo is the only one with enough power to cure him.\n\nWhen Rezo finds the philosopher's stone, he resurrects the fragment of Shabranigdo, only then learning that it lies within his own eyes. Lina is able to defeat the Demon King using the incomplete Giga Slave and the Sword of Light, with help from Rezo's soul, but she kills the priest in the process. It is later revealed that Rezo survived by transferring his soul, as well as the ghost of Shabranigdo, into the Hellmaster's Jar. When the Slayers find the Hellmaster's Jar, Pokota resurrects Rezo in order to revive the people of Taforashia from their suspended state. After reviving the people of Taforashia, Rezo wants to see again, if only for a moment, so he opens his eyes. As the power of Shabranigdo returns to him, he asks Lina to destroy him once more. With the help of the completed Giga Slave, Lina destroys Rezo, and the ghost of Shabranigdo with him.\n\nEris is the servant of Rezo the Red Priest and later Copy Rezo. From a young age, she serves as Rezo's assistant and apprentice, helping him perform his miracles. She also assists in his research to cure his blindness, and is brokenhearted over his repeated failures; she may have been in love with him. After the death of the original Rezo, she hires the swordsman Zangulus and the sorcerer Vrumugun to hunt down Lina and Gourry and bring them to Sairaag.\n\nEris is responsible for cloning Vrumugun. She is killed in cold blood by Copy Rezo after he merges with the ancient Demon Beast Zanaffar that was buried in the Holy Tree Flaggoon.\n\n, sometimes referred to as \"The Rezo Clone\", is a copy of Rezo the Red Priest, created by the original Rezo as a lab rat for experiments to cure his blindness. Copy Rezo's eyes open while the original's do not, because the copy's eyes do not contain the fragment of Shabranigdo.\n\nCopy Rezo's greatest and only wish is to surpass his original. At first, he intends to kill Rezo in a fair fight. When Rezo is killed by the Slayers, he decides that the only other way to surpass Rezo is to either kill the ones who defeated the original Rezo, or withstand the Giga Slave that delivered the killing blow. He orders Eris to lure the three of them to Sairaag, where he attempts to defeat them by resurrecting and absorbing the power of the demon beast Zanaffar. However, Lina, Gourry, and Zelgadis, accompanied by Amelia and Sylphiel, kill him using the Blessed Blade and the power of the tree Flaggoon.\n\nWhen the Rezo clone wonders how he lost, the Slayers answer that it was because of his desire to surpass his original, and his inability to imagine a life for himself beyond that. He dies with a smile on his face, and asks to be buried beneath Flaggoon.\n\nIn the novel series, the original Rezo's fury when Copy Rezo's eyes open but his own will not leads him to conduct a number of experiments on Copy Rezo. When Rezo fuses the copy with a monster, Copy Rezo gains both pride and a will of his own, causing his desire to get revenge on and surpass Rezo. This, rather than Zanaffar, becomes the source of Copy Rezo's power.\n\nGaav is a high-ranking monster, one of the five Demon Lords under Shabranigdo. He bears the title of Demon Dragon King, though he is unrelated to the dragon race. Gaav appears to be the main antagonist of \"Slayers NEXT\", but it is later revealed that he is simply a pawn in Hellmaster Phibrizzo's plan.\n\nDuring the war of the extermination of the Ancient Dragon race, Gaav meets Valgaav, the last of the Ancient Dragons, and gains his servitude. Valgaav appears as one of Lina's enemies in \"Slayers TRY\".\n\nLong ago, Gaav battled and defeated Aqualord Ragradia, one of the four Dragon Kings created by Ceiphied's power. However, before his death, Ragradia somehow sealed Gaav's monster soul into a human body, dramatically weakening him. Gaav still displays a considerable amount of strength, far outclassing even that of Xellos, who is unquestionably the strongest monster besides the five Demon Lords. Even sealed in a human body, Gaav is able to attack on the astral plane. He bests Xellos at his own game, and proves able to withstand a direct attack from Lina's Ragna Blade.\n\nSeigram is a servant of Gaav the Demon Dragon King in \"Slayers NEXT\". He is a monster who is seemingly as powerful as his rival Xellos. He first appears as a mysterious figure that frames Damia and Tarimu by summoning ooze monsters out of their estates, and he makes an alliance with Halcyform. However, when confronted by Xellos, he retreats without a fight. He later attacks Lina in the temple of the Claire Bible manuscript, revealing that he was granted enough of Gaav's power to withstand a Dragon Slave. He is killed when Xellos holds him directly in the path of Lina's Ragna Blade.\n\nThe primary antagonist in \"NEXT\", is the oldest and the most powerful of the five Demon Lords created by Ruby-Eye Shabranigdo. He is most likely the second-in-command of the monster race. Like all monsters, he seeks to destroy the world and return everything to the Sea of Chaos. He manifests as an androgynous little boy in order to trick his victims into underestimating him.\n\nPhibrizzo has complete control over death and the souls of the departed. He is able to raise thousands of people from the grave as living dead under his control with their memories and personality intact. He can also encase people in a life-absorbing green crystal, or kill anyone simply by breaking a golden marble that represents their lives. Intelligent and cunning; he knows how to manipulate people, and convincingly pretends to be an ordinary child. His eagerness to destroy the world goes far beyond any other monster's. Though cruel and sadistic, his personality fits his childish appearance, as he enjoys making fun of his victims and using people like toys to entertain himself.\n\nIt was Phibrizzo who ignited the War of the Monster's Fall, first as a conflict between humans, then as a worldwide war between monsters and dragons, in order to awaken the part of Shabranigdo sealed within the sorcerer Lei Magnus. He is probably the one who decided to create the Monster Barrier, which isolated the battlefields to the outer and inner worlds, weakening the dragons' forces.\n\nIn \"Slayers NEXT\", Phibrizzo plans to force Lina to draw upon the power of the Lord of Nightmares and use the Giga Slave, which can destroy the entire world. He uses Gaav and Xellos to lead Lina to the discovery of the Giga Slave spell, then joins Lina as a young pickpocket to watch what happens. When Lina, fearing the power of the Giga Slave, brings down Gaav with the weaker Ragna Blade spell instead, Phibrizzo destroys Gaav and kidnaps Gourry, forcing her to cast the Giga Slave. However, the Giga Slave summons the Lord of Nightmares herself in Lina's body, who obliterates him, giving him the destruction he craved.\n\nValgaav is one of the main adversaries in the third series of the anime, \"Slayers TRY\". Once known as Prince Val of the Ancient Dragon clan, he is nearly killed by the Golden Dragons, who feared the dark powers of the Ancient Dragons and exterminated them. He is saved at the last moment by Gaav, who sees in him a powerful ally and a spirit of hatred towards the Golden Dragons for their betrayal. Gaav bestows upon him the powers of a monster and renames him \"Valgaav\".\n\nValgaav and Gaav are separated when the other four Demon Lords create the barrier separating the outer and inner worlds. The barrier remains in effect until Hellmaster Phibrizzo's death at the end of \"Slayers NEXT\". Valgaav is loyal only to his savior, Gaav, and gives no allegiance to any side, be it Slayers, dragons, gods, or monsters. With the combined power of a monster and Ancient Dragon, Valgaav is the strongest of Gaav's servants. However, he is notably weaker than Gaav. His Ancient Dragon power conflicts with the monster power given to him by Gaav, causing him pain. He is able to best Xellos in a one-on-one fight by using Ragud Mezagis, one of the five Darkstar weapons. He survives a magically amplified Dragon Slave fired directly into his body.\n\nDespite his prowess as a warrior, Valgaav is radically unstable and reckless. He activates the gateway created to summon Darkstar with only two of the five weapons required. Although the gateway is closed by other gods from the Overworld, Darkstar fires a blast through it that destroys Valgaav. He reappears at the end of the season merged with the fusion of Darkstar and Volphied, and acts as an arbiter of the two. Possessing the powers of both dragon gods and monster lords, he is easily the most powerful being faced in the entire storyline of \"Slayers\", although his power is cut in half by the open gateway. Valgaav/Darkstar/Volphied is destroyed by the combination of dark and light powers of Xellos's and Filia's abilities, combined with the five Darkstar weapons and Lina's incantation of Chaos power. At the end of \"Slayers TRY\", he is reborn as an egg and falls under the care of Filia and two of his former demi-human subordinates, Jillas and Gravos.\n\nZuuma is an assassin hired to kill Lina Inverse in \"Slayers Revolution\". He became an assassin solely for the purpose of killing Lina. Gourry uses Pokota's Sword of Light to blast one of his arms off, while Lina blasts the other.\n\nZuuma returns in \"Slayers Evolution-R\" as the main antagonist alongside Shabranigdo. He orders Lina to come to the city of Vezendi or he will kill a merchant named Radok, who has the Hellmaster's Jar. It turns out that Zuuma actually is Radok, and it is all a ploy to draw Lina in. Although it is uncertain precisely why Zuuma wants to kill Lina, she once killed a group of bandits that were responsible for killing his wife, thus denying him vengeance. In the manga, he is killed by the Ragna Blade, but in the anime, he has his hands slashed off a second time before Xellos appears and kills him in order to steal the Hellmaster's Jar.\n\n is a fishman, with the body of a fish and the legs and arms of a human. He is one of Zelgadis's henchmen at the opening of the story. He comically tortures Lina with a kiss (sucking on her entire head) when she won't tell Zelgadis about the philosopher's stone.\n\nLater, when Zelgadis breaks Lina out of the castle, Noonsa attempts a sneak attack on Lina, but Zelgadis traps him in a bubble of air and fries him with a fireball. Later, some of Dilgear's followers find the fried fish and eat him.\n\nIn the manga version of the story, Noonsa has no romantic attraction to Lina. He is ordered by Zelgadis to steal the philosopher's stone, but Gourry slices him in two and eats him. In the novel, when Noonsa is ordered to kiss Lina, he asks where the eggs are, having no concept of kissing other than that it is related to mating.\n\n is a half-wolf, half-troll henchman of Zelgadis. Unlike Zolf, Rodimus, and Noonsa, his colleagues, Dilgear is actually quite violent during battles and will even kill his foes. He first appears in Episode 4 of the anime.\n\nAlthough Dilgear was placed under Zelgadis' rule, his ultimate loyalty is to Rezo, so it comes as no surprise to Zelgadis when the half-breed turns against him. When Zolf and Rodimus arrive, Dilgear thinks that he has been saved, but Rodimus says that their loyalty is to Zelgadis, not Rezo. Dilgear is seriously wounded by Zolf, and his final words are: \"Just wait until I come back to life!\" Thanks to his half-troll regenerative abilities, he does revive, but instead of seeking revenge he ends up as Luna Inverse's pet, and she calls him \"Spot\". The exact circumstances of this radical change in Dilgear's life are unknown.\n\nIn the manga, Dilgear is a bounty hunter sent by Eris, along with Rahanimu and Vrumugun, to eliminate Gourry and Lina. Strangely, Dilgear vanishes shortly after his introduction. It is possible that he either flees or is simply killed off-screen.\n\n is a sorcerer loyal to Zelgadis. While under the command of Zelgadis and the Red Priest Rezo, Zolf infiltrates the Dragon Fangs gang in order to steal the Orihalcon Statue and the philosopher's stone it contains. Unfortunately for him, he joins the gang just in time to be blown up by Lina robbing the gang. Following the attack, bandages cover his entire body, earning him the nickname \"Mummy Man\". After Zelgadis' break with Rezo, Zolf chooses to follow Zelgadis and remain under his command, also removing his bandages. He casts a Dragon Slave at Ruby-Eye Shabranigdo, but Shabranigdo reflects the spell, killing Zolf and Rodimus.\n\n is an elderly man loyal to Zelgadis. Despite his apparent age, Rodimus appears to be a skilled fighter and manages to hold his own, with the help of Dilgear, against much younger fighters like Gourry.\n\nRodimus chooses to remain under Zelgadis's command when Zelgadis turns from Rezo. His time with the Slayers is short-lived; when Zolf mistakenly casts a Dragon Slave on Shabranigdo, the Demon King reflects the spell, killing Rodimus and Zolf. In the manga series, after Zolf is killed by the reflected Dragon Slave, Rodimus sacrifices his life protecting Zelgadis from a dark magic attack launched by Shabranigdo.\n\n is the crown prince of Seyruun. He has two daughters, Amelia Wil Tesla Seyruun and Gracia Ul Naga Seyruun. Gracia leaves after Phil's unnamed wife is killed by an assassin, and now calls herself \"Naga the White Serpent\".\n\nPhil also has two brothers, Christopher Wil Brogg Seyruun and Randionel Seyruun, and a nephew, Alfred Seyruun. Both Randy and Alfred are killed in separate attempts to seize the throne for themselves. Though Phil's father Eldoran Seyruun is technically still the king, he is old, sickly, and bedridden, so Phil more or less runs the country. Possibly due to his wife's death and his eldest daughter's absence, he is very close with and protective of his youngest daughter Amelia.\n\nLike Amelia, Phil has a strong belief in justice, and he is also a pacifist. However, if Phil sees something he believes to be unjust, he will not hesitate to use force. Unlike most of the Seyruun royal family, Phil has no magical powers, but his brute strength crushes injustice with attacks such as Pacifist Crush and Kindness to All Creatures Kick. This sheer strength is sufficient to destroy lesser demons.\n\nZelas Metallium, also known as Lord Beastmaster, is one of the five Demon Lords who rules on Wolf-Pack Island. She appears in the novels periodically, but her only appearance in the anime is a shot of legs and a cigarette. Xellos serves as her right-hand man, and everything Xellos does in the end leads back to her. She is a popular character in the fandom world, and most of what is known about her personality is fan-based.\n\n is the name given to a group of copy men created by Eris in the third novel and the first season of the anime.\n\nIn the novels, Eris uses the Vrumuguns to try and capture Lina, Gourry, and Zelgadis and bring them to Sairaag. She only sends one Vrumugun after them at a time, sending a new copy every time one is killed, which confuses Lina and the others at first: each time they think they've killed Vrumugun, he reappears to attack them again. The Vrumugun copies disappear once their controller dies.\n\nIn the anime, Vrumugun is partnered with Zangulus, and they try to capture Lina and Gourry. However, while Zangulus is short-tempered and arrogant, Vrumugun is quiet, collected, and takes everything seriously. In episode 18, after Zelgadis kills a group of clones, Vrumugun vanishes and is not seen again in season 1.\n\nThe original Vrumugun's identity is a mystery. In the novels, there is evidence to suggest that Eris is the original. She (and possibly the original Rezo) created them, and her last name is given as Vrumugun. In the anime, Eris' last name is never mentioned, nor is it ever hinted that she is the original. At the end of \"Slayers NEXT\", a person very much resembling Vrumugun is briefly seen at Zangulus and Martina's wedding, implying that this person is the original Vrumugun.\n\n is a mercenary and a swordsman of considerable skill. Although he cannot use magic, he wields a weapon called the Howling Sword, a magical sword created by Rezo that can shoot great gusts of wind. Zangulus and the sorcerer Vrumugun were originally hired as bounty hunters by Eris and Copy Rezo to capture Lina, Gourry, and Zelgadis and bring them to Sairaag.\n\nZangulus becomes obsessed with fighting Gourry to see who is the better swordsman. They duel in Rezo's lab, but Gourry wins in the end, and Zangulus leaves. He reappears towards the end of \"Slayers NEXT\", looking for a rematch. However, Gourry is being held prisoner by Hellmaster Phibrizzo, so Zangulus does not get a chance to duel him a second time. He does help Lina and the others fight the Hellmaster. It is during this time that Zangulus meets and falls in love with Martina, who he marries after the battle.\n\nZangulus is yet another character created for the anime, and does not appear in the original novels or the manga. \n\n is a red fox beastman and a servant of Valgaav.\n\nJillas' people were nearly hunted to extinction. After being injured by humans and losing his left eye, Jillas is saved by Valgaav. He is partnered with Gravos Maunttop, who he refers to as \"Boss\". He has no knowledge of magic or swordplay, but is skilled with guns, gunpowder and various explosives. He also has a knack for exploiting the friction between people to his advantage, and employs psychological warfare against the Slayers to great effect.\n\nIn \"TRY\", Valgaav orders Gravos and Jillas to locate and recover the five Darkstar weapons. When Gravos loses control of Ragudo Mezegis is blasted away by a Dragon Slave, Jillas swears vengeance on the Slayers, and succeeds in stealing Gorun Nova from Gourry.\n\nAfter everyone is separated and Valgaav is presumed dead, Jillas is rescued by a fox named Elena and her son Palou, who call him \"uncle\". He abandons them to seek vengeance when he discovers that the Slayers are still alive. Filia saves him from the explosion of one of his own bombs, after which he calls her \"Boss\", a name that makes her uncomfortable. After Valgaav is reborn as a pure Ancient Dragon and is adopted by Filia, Jillas and Gravos (who was literally launched into orbit by the Dragon Slave) become her partners and help her sell maces and pottery in a shop.\n\n, a reptilian beastman, is a servant of Valgaav. His first appearance in the series is in Episode 54 of \"TRY\".\n\nGravos was almost killed by his own people, causing him to lose his right eye. Valgaav saves him and becomes his master. During \"TRY\", Gravos and Jillas attempt to steal Gorun Nova on Valgaav's orders. During a struggle to get the holy magic and the black magic vessels from Princess Sera and Prince Marco, Gravos loses control of Ragudo Mezegis when he is hit by the Dragon Slave and is knocked into the distance, presumed dead. However, he is alive and well in the epilogue of \"TRY\", once again partnered with Jillas and helping Filia run a store that sells maces and pottery.\n\n is the leader of the Golden Dragons remaining in the outer world, who were originally in the service of the Water Dragon King. Milgasia finds the Slayers when they enter the Valley of Dragons. He aids Lina by taking her to see the real Claire Bible so that Lina can learn the truth behind the Giga Slave. In the anime, Martina tags along as well. In the novels, Milgasia and his elven companion Mephis join Lina in her travels for a while.\n\nMilgasia is probably over 1,000 years old, as he seems to have first-hand knowledge about Xellos and the War of the Monster's Fall. At first, he is worried about the Slayers's association with Xellos, until Gourry helps him realize that they are not intimidated or influenced by Xellos in any way. Milgasia's first appearance is in Episode 20 of \"Slayers NEXT\", which roughly equals the seventh novel and manga issue.\n\n and are members of the Sorcerer's Association, competing for the position of Guild Master. Damia hires Lina and Gourry as bodyguards Tarimu, while Tarimu does the same with Amelia and Zelgadis, leading the two pairs to unknowingly compete. When monsters begin coming out of both Damia's and Tarimu's estates, they are imprisoned, leaving them unable to pay the Slayers for their services.\n\nWhile in prison, Damia and Tarimu reveal that they are responsible for the empty guild position. Halcyform, the previous Guild Master, had been expelled after they found him conducting taboo research into immortality. He lost his position, and was certainly powerful enough to summon the monsters to frame each of them. Both Damia's and Tarimu's lower halves become imprisoned in stone when they try to repay Halcyform for his wrongs, and, to their dismay, they are left on their own to find a way of turning themselves back to normal.\n\n, Lina's older sister, was born in a small village in Zephilia, the first daughter of merchants. Her father is an ex-mercenary and her mother is an ex-sorceress.\n\nLuna and Lina's relationship is not particularly affectionate. Apparently, when they were younger, Lina would misbehave and Luna would \"punish\" her by making her do grueling workouts. The most notorious incident between the two was when Lina, ever keen on an opportunity to make some extra cash, set up a device that projected an image of Luna while she was taking a bath. Luna's reaction \"compelled\" Lina to begin her quest. Lina is still terrified of Luna, and even the mere mention of her sister sends Lina into a panic attack, as seen in \"Slayers Revolution\" episode 8.\n\nA fragment of Ceiphied's will is lodged within Luna. In \"Slayers TRY\", when the Slayers visit the Fire Dragon Temple, it is mentioned that she is known as the \"Ceiphied Knight\". As the Knight of Ceiphied, Luna wields an immense amount of holy power. Luna never appears in person during the novels or the anime, but Hajime Kanzaka has said that she is slightly more powerful than Xellos. She can cut a Dragon Slave in half with an ordinary, non-magical sword, and once defeated a plasma dragon with a kitchen knife.\n\nIn \"Slayers TRY\", Luna is Filia's first choice to save the world from the prophecy of destruction. Luna, being on the side of the gods, knows she is not the candidate in the prophecy; she turns down Filia's request and suggests Lina for the job instead.\n\n, also known as Shabranigdu, is a powerful being of evil, the ruler and strongest of the monsters, and the source of power for Lina's signature spell, the Dragon Slave. He is said to be the sole source of misery and negative emotions in the \"Slayers\" world.\n\nDefeated long ago by the Dragon King Ceiphied, Shabranigdo was split into seven parts and buried in human souls. It was Ceiphied's plan to wear away at these fragments by the constant death and rebirth of human lives, until Shabranigdo ceased to be. A thousand years before the series begins, one of these parts awakened in the legendary sorcerer Lei Magnus, the Demon King of the North. Lei Magnus was a great sage who created devastating spells, such as the Dragon Slave and shamanism's powerful fire spell Blast Bomb. However, his power came at a price. When the piece of Shabranigdo within him awakened, he led the monsters against the Dragon Kings. He was defeated and sealed in ice by the Sea Dragon King, Aqualord Ragradia, and at the same time the Demon Dragon King Gaav, one of Shabranigdo's Demon Lords, was bound to a human body. It was a costly victory; Ragradia was destroyed, leaving only her memories and knowledge, which became the Claire Bible. The remaining four Demon Lords (Dynast Grausherra, Deep Sea Dolphin, Beastmaster Zelas Metallium, and Hellmaster Phibrizzo) erected a shield that sealed the divine powers in the outer world, separated from the inner world where the \"Slayers\" story begins.\n\nA second portion of Shabranigdo awakens in the first \"Slayers\" arc. Rezo the Red Priest awakens the fragment sealed within his eyes when he uses the philosopher's stone in an attempt to cure his blindness. Lina confronts the unbound piece of Shabranigdo, invoking the Giga Slave to defeat him. It is possible that Shabranigdo could have survived this attack, but a fragment of Rezo's remaining will forces open its defenses. Shabranigdo claims that he is so impressed at Lina's improvised spell that he allows that fragment of himself to be bested.\n\nIn \"Slayers Evolution-R\", the Red Priest revives, bringing the fragment of Shabranigdo back to life with him. It possesses the true body of Pokota, and when Pokota returns to his body, it causes instability between the occupying souls, allowing Lina's perfected Giga Slave to destroy Shabranigdo.\n\nIn the final \"Slayers\" novel, a third fragment of Shabranigdo is buried in the soul of a character named Luke, who had previously appeared as a rival. Driven to despair by the events of the previous book, Luke is contacted by the fragment of Ruby-Eye within him and manages to strike a deal with it: he will fight Lina and Gourry one more time, and if he is victorious, the fragment will wholly revive and complete the monster race's goal of destroying the world. As Luke ultimately wishes to die in the battle, rather than destroy the world, his self-destructive impulse allows him and the fragment to be slain by the Dragon Slave. This battle is the only known exception to the monsters' immunity to black magic drawn from their own power (described by Lina as, \"Hey, help me kill you\").\n\n is the demiurge of the \"Slayers\" universe, the creator of everything. Although she has no defined gender, she is generally considered female because she possessed Lina's body and took her form in her sole appearance in the series. Unlike most creator deities in fiction, the Lord of Nightmares is not considered benevolent and humans do not worship her. Even among those steeped in the magical arts, few are aware of her existence. Those of the monster race are, and refer to her as \"the Mother of All Beings\". Other names given to her include \"Lord of Dreams that Terrify\", \"He Who Shines Like Gold upon the Sea of Chaos\", \"The Golden Lord\", and \"L-Sama\".\n\nThe Lord of Nightmares created the entire \"Slayers\" multiverse, including the futuristic galaxy portrayed in \"Lost Universe\", and two other known worlds, the realms of Chaotic Blue and Death Fog. Both Shabranigdo and his rival Ceiphied are her direct creations. The Lord of Nightmares may have done this simply because she wanted to watch gods, monsters, and mortals contend for her amusement, a hypothesis adopted by Valgaav in \"Slayers TRY\" in his attempt to remake the world. Another theory is that the Lord of Nightmares requires the chaos of battle for sustenance.\n\nLina is the only human known to directly use the power of the Lord of Nightmares in spells, and she is reluctant to do so. Spells that call upon the power of the Lord of Nightmares are notoriously unreliable, with failure frequently having devastating consequences. The Giga Slave, for instance, could theoretically destroy existence itself if miscast. Lina created the Giga Slave when she was much younger by combining parts of the Dragon Slave's incantation with chaos words of the Lord of Nightmares that she found in a Claire Bible manuscript. When she cast the spell for the first time, she turned a body of water into a sea of death, where no living thing can grow. To call upon the power of Chaos is to call upon the Lord of Nightmares herself, and she can withhold her power if she chooses; \"My mind is my power, my power is my mind,\" she says in the \"Slayers NEXT\" finale.\n\nThe Lord of Nightmares's only direct appearance is in \"Slayers NEXT\", when Lina is goaded into casting the Giga Slave by Hellmaster Phibrizzo, who wants the power of Chaos to destroy the world. Before this point, the Lord of Nightmares had no physical form, having sacrificed her body to create the Sea of Chaos and the Four Worlds. Using Lina's body as a vessel, the power of Chaos obliterates Phibrizzo. She also makes good on Lina's final thoughts and wishes by reviving her companions and allowing them to see her. She declares that Lina is gone forever, consumed by her power, with Xellos explaining that when \"existence calls forth oblivion, it must return to oblivion\". The only thing that saves Lina's soul from the Sea of Chaos is Gourry's sacrifice of the Sword of Light.\n\nThe Lord of Nightmares does not intervene in the battle against Valgaav and Darkstar at the end of \"Slayers TRY\", since Lina doesn't cast the Giga Slave spell. Instead, the Slayers create a power very similar to that of Chaos by combining the powers of the monsters and the gods, Light and Dark, to destroy Valgaav and Darkstar.\n\n, also known as , is the dragonic counterpart to Shabranigdo in the \"Slayers\" universe.\n\nIn each world of this universe, a Dragon King and a Demon King struggle against each other to direct the fate of the world. In the Red World, in which \"Slayers\" is set, Ceiphied is the Dragon King who battles the Demon King Ruby-Eye Shabranigdo. Ceiphied successfully weakens his demonic counterpart by cutting Shabranigdo into seven pieces. Ceiphied dies in the process, but leaves behind four beings to continue his struggle: Aqualord Ragradia, Flarelord Valbazard, Earthlord Rangort, and Airlord Valwyn. A fragment of his will is lodged in Luna Inverse, Lina's older sister, who is known as the \"Ceiphied Knight\".\n\nDarkstar Dugradigo is one of the four Demon Kings (or \"Ma-oh\") created by the Lord of Nightmares. He is the main antagonist of the Black World, and appears in \"Slayers TRY\" attempting to cross over into the Red World and cause further destruction. The gods of the Black World aim to destroy him using the five weapons he created: Gorun Nova (the Sword of Light), Ragudo Mezegis, Nezzard, Bodigar, and Galvayra.\n\nIn his own world, Darkstar is the equivalent of Shabranigdo in power, as Volphied is the equivalent of Ceiphied. Darkstar devours Volphied, but grows so powerful that he can't control his own power, and becomes a being seeking only the destruction of everything. However, Valgaav reveals that Darkstar \"devoured\" Volphied by mutual agreement between the two. They realized how meaningless the eternal fight between gods and monsters was, and fused to bring \"purification\" to the worlds by destroying and remaking them so that gods and monsters would not have to constantly fight.\n\nHalf monster and half god, the new Darkstar merges with Valgaav, who is the same combination. Darkstar's \"astral body\" is different from those of any other monster, making magic useless against him. Darkstar can only be defeated by the five weapons he created. When Filia and Xellos combine the powers of Light and Dark, of Ceiphied and Shabranigdo, and unleash it through the five weapons of Darkstar, the resulting Chaos force vanquishes him for good.\n"}
{"id": "6038083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6038083", "title": "Malan Breton", "text": "Malan Breton\n\nMalan Breton (born June 16, 1973) is a Taiwanese-born fashion designer, film, and music video director, columnist, costume designer, TV and Film producer, actor, and Goodwill Ambassador to Taiwan. He launched his namesake label \"Malan Breton\" in 2005, Malan Breton HOMME in 2010, and Fantôme Malan Breton in 2012.\nThe labels are associated with menswear, womenswear, accessories, underwear,and bridal.\n\nBreton was born in Taipei, Taiwan. He began designing fashion at the age of eleven but grew up, as a performer, in the entertainment industry. He never went to design school and is self-taught as a designer.\n\nIn 1996, as a model, Breton moved to New York after a request by Versus and KCD to cast for the New York fashion week Spring 1997 Collection shows at 7th on Sixth. As a model, Breton was photographed by top photographers and directors Herb Ritts, Len Prince and Hype Williams. Thom Oliphant, Joseph Kahn\n\nBreton got his start in fashion design as a stylist. Some of his clients included Kylie Minogue, Celine Dion, and Linda Evangelista. His work as a stylist introduced him to the fashion industry.\n\nHis mentors in fashion include Arnold Scaasi, also noted is his training at British heritage brand Turnbull & Asser .\n\nIn 2005, Breton was one of twelve new designers to watch for on the New York runway in WWD Women's Wear Dailies \"Cheat Sheet\".\n\nIn 2007 he opened the first Malan Breton flagship store in NYC's East Village.\n\nMalan Breton Collection expanded in 2008 to include Malan Breton Accessories.\n\nIn 2010 he expanded to include a full line of menswear - Malan Breton Homme (Men)\n\nIn 2012 Malan Breton expanded to include Fantôme Malan Breton.\n\nIn 2014 Malan Breton expanded into outerwear with his first license That same year, he was ranked at number twenty-six on IMDb's list of the one hundred most popular Tapei, Taiwan-born people in entertainment, for his work in fashion, costume, and television.\n\n\nIn 2010 Breton designed costumes for NBC's prime-time game show Minute to Win It. The show starred Guy Fieri which featured \"Game Agents\" Petra Lauren Gilmore and Ling Ai-Li Wang each week wearing Malan Breton designs.\n\nIn 2011 Malan Breton's costume designs, for the television game show Minute to Win It, were part of a packaging deal with NBC/ Universal, Nintendo Wii systems, Xbox 360, and ZOO for the video game of the same name.\n\nBreton was featured on an episode of \"E! Television Fashion Emergency\". The episode featured Breton performing in the 1998 revival of Cabaret on Broadway.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2005 Breton was the promo voice of \"ESPN Extreme Sports\".\n\nBreton in 2003 was the promo voice for \"ABC Sports\".\n\nMalan Breton first received public notice when he came in 14th in the third season of Project Runway (2006).\n\nBreton was the subject/host/co-producer of \"The Malan Show\" featured on BravoTV.com as a weekly web series. It followed the process of making it in America as an independent designer.\n\nIn 2008 Breton, and the collection was featured on an episode of \"Australia's Next Top Model \" (Cycle 4). In an episode called \"New York, New York\" The final 3 were judged in a retrospective catwalk of Breton's fashions, their finale fashion show before the top two were chosen.\n\nIn 2008 Breton, and the collection was featured on an episode of \"MTV News\". In an episode called \"'Project Runway' Alumni Stand Out At New York Fashion Week\" the episode featured the Spring Summer 2009 collection shown at Bryant Park during Mercedes Benz New York Fashion Week.\n\nIn 2009 Breton appeared on \"MTV Detox\". In an episode called \"ON 'MTV DETOX': JIM CANTIELLO WITH NO PANTS!\" \nIn 2010 Malan Breton, and Care and Share India rang the NASDAQ closing bell shown on NASDAQ TV in Times Square.\n\nIn 2011 Malan Breton Homme, and Breton were featured on an episode of MTV News. In an episode called \"It's A 'Party And Rock And Roll' Lifestyle For Jim\". On the episode the viewers chose the Malan Breton suit newscaster Jim Cantiello would wear to the VMA's\n\nIn 2015 Breton starred with Celeste Holm in the comedy \"College Debts\"\n\nIn 2016 Breton, and the collection were featured on an episode of \"The Real Housewives of New York City\" featured on Bravo. In an episode called \"Airing Your Dirty Laundry\"\n\nIn 2017 Breton appeared on an episode of Good Day New York featured on FOX Television Stations. On the episode he gave fashion commentary about the annual Met Gala.\n\nIn 2018 Breton, and the collection were featured on an episode of \"The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills\" featured on Bravo. In an episode called \"Thank you, Thuck you\".\n\n\nSome of the TV shows Malan Breton has designed specialty costumes for.\n\n\nSome of the people who have worn Malan Breton outfits include:\n\n\n\n\nIn 2017 Malan Breton (the Brand) partenered with Tokenly, and Sohomuse to \"Launch The First Blockchain-powered Digital Experience For The Fashion Industry\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27926568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27926568", "title": "Methaqualone in popular culture", "text": "Methaqualone in popular culture\n\nMethaqualone is a sedative-hypnotic drug similar in effect to barbiturates, a general CNS depressant. Its use peaked in the 1960s and 1970s as a hypnotic for the treatment of insomnia, and as a sedative and muscle relaxant. It has also been used illegally as a recreational drug, commonly known as Quaaludes ( ), particularly in the 1970s in North America, or as Mandrax (methaqualone 250 mg combined with diphenhydramine 25 mg).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5592395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5592395", "title": "Mitama", "text": "Mitama\n\nThe Japanese word refers to the spirit of a \"kami\" or the soul of a dead person. It is composed of two characters, the first of which, , is a simply an honorific. The second, means \"spirit\". The character pair 神霊, also read \"mitama\", is used exclusively to refer to a \"kami's\" spirit. Significantly, the term is a synonym of \"shintai\", the object which in a Shinto shrine houses the enshrined \"kami\".\nEarly Japanese definitions of the \"mitama\", developed later by many thinkers like Motoori Norinaga, maintain it consists of several \"souls\", relatively independent one from the other.\nThe most developed is the , a Shinto theory according to which the of both \"kami\" and human beings consists of one spirit and four souls. The four souls are the , the , the and the . According to the theory, each of the souls making up the spirit has a character and a function of its own; they all exist at the same time, complementing each other. In the Nihon Shoki, \"kami\" Ōnamuchi actually meets his \"kushi-mitama\" and \"shiki-mitama\", but does not even recognize them. The four seem moreover to have a different importance, and different thinkers have described their interaction differently.\n\nThe \"ara-mitama\" is the rough and violent side of a spirit. A \"kami's\" first appearance is as an \"ara-mitama\", which must be pacified with appropriate pacification rites and worship so that the \"nigi-mitama\" can appear. The \"nigi-mitama\" is the normal state of the \"kami\", its functional side, while the \"ara-mitama\" appears in times of war or natural disasters.\nThese two souls are usually considered opposites, and Motoori Norinaga believed the other two to be no more than aspects of the \"nigi-mitama\". \"Ara-mitama\" and \"nigi-mitama\" are in any case independent agents, so much so that they can sometimes be enshrined separately in different locations and different \"shintai\". For example, Sumiyoshi Shrine in Shimonoseki enshrines the \"ara-mitama\" of the Sumiyoshi \"kami\", while Sumiyoshi Taisha in Osaka enshrines its \"nigi-mitama\". Ise Shrine has a sub-shrine called Aramatsuri-no-miya enshrining Amaterasu's \"ara-mitama\". Atsuta-jingū has a \"sessha\" called Ichi-no-misaki Jinja for her \"ara-mitama\" and a \"massha\" called Toosu-no-yashiro for her \"nigi-mitama\". No separate enshrinement of the \"mitama\" of a \"kami\" has taken place since the rationalization and systematization of Shinto actuated by the Meiji restoration.\n\nThis is the soul of blessing and prosperity. In a scene of the Nihon Shoki, \"kami\" Ōnamuchi is described in conversation with his own \"saki-mitama\" and \"kushi-mitama\". Within Shinto also exists the idea that this the soul which brings good harvests and catches. Motoori Norinaga and others however believe this to be no more than a function of the \"nigi-mitama\".\n\nThe \"wondrous soul\" which appears together with the \"saki-mitama\", the providing soul, which is the power behind the harvest. It is believed to have mysterious powers, to cause transformations and to be able to cure illnesses.\n\nA widely celebrated Shinto festival to the dead in Japan, particularly at the Yasukuni Shrine. Typically in mid-July.\n"}
{"id": "3005707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3005707", "title": "Nazi plunder", "text": "Nazi plunder\n\nNazi plunder refers to art theft and other items stolen as a result of the organized looting of European countries during the time of the Third Reich by agents acting on behalf of the ruling Nazi Party of Germany. Plundering occurred from 1933 until the end of World War II, particularly by military units known as the Kunstschutz, although most plunder was acquired during the war. In addition to gold, silver and currency, cultural items of great significance were stolen, including paintings, ceramics, books, and religious treasures. Although most of these items were recovered by agents of the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives program (MFAA, also known as the Monuments Men), on behalf of the Allies immediately following the war, many are still missing. There is an international effort underway to identify Nazi plunder that still remains unaccounted for, with the aim of ultimately returning the items to the rightful owners, their families or their respective countries.\n\nAdolf Hitler was an unsuccessful artist who was denied admission to the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts. Nonetheless, he thought of himself as a connoisseur of the arts, and in \"Mein Kampf\" he ferociously attacked modern art as degenerate, including Cubism, Futurism, and Dadaism, all of which he considered the product of a decadent twentieth century society. In 1933 when Hitler became Chancellor of Germany, he enforced his aesthetic ideal on the nation. The types of art that were favored amongst the Nazi party were classical portraits and landscapes by Old Masters, particularly those of Germanic origin. Modern art that did not match this was dubbed degenerate art by the Third Reich, and all that was found in Germany's state museums was to be sold or destroyed. With the sums raised, the Führer's objective was to establish the European Art Museum in Linz. Other Nazi dignitaries, like Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring and Foreign Affairs minister von Ribbentrop, were also intent on taking advantage of German military conquests to increase their private art collections.\n\nArt dealers Hildebrand Gurlitt, Karl Buchholz, Ferdinand Moeller and Bernhard Boehmer set up shop in Schloss Niederschonhausen, just outside Berlin, to sell a cache of near-16,000 paintings and sculptures which Hitler and Göring removed from the walls of German museums in 1937-38. They were first put on display in the Haus der Kunst in Munich on 19 July 1937, with the Nazi leaders inviting public mockery by two million visitors who came to view the condemned modern art in the \"Degenerate art\" exhibition. Propagandist Joseph Goebbels in a radio broadcast called Germany's degenerate artists \"garbage\". Hitler opened the Haus der Kunst exhibition with a speech. In it he described German art as suffering \"a great and fatal illness\".\n\nHildebrand Gurlitt and his colleagues did not have much success with their sales, mainly because art labelled \"rubbish\" had small appeal. So on 20 March 1939 they set fire to 1,004 paintings and sculptures and 3,825 watercolours, drawings and prints in the courtyard of the Berlin Fire Department, an act of infamy similar to their earlier well-known book burnings. The propaganda act raised the attention they hoped. The Basel Museum in Switzerland arrived with 50,000 Swiss francs to spend. Shocked art lovers came to buy. What is unknown after these sales is how many paintings were kept by Gurlitt, Buchholz, Moeller and Boehmer and sold by them to Switzerland and America - ships crossed the Atlantic from Lisbon - for personal gain.\n\nThe most infamous auction of Nazi looted art was the \"degenerate art' auction organized by Theodor Fischer (auctioneer) in Lucerne, Switzerland, 30 June 1939 at the Grand Hotel National. The artworks on offer had been \"de-accessioned\" from German museums by the Nazis, yet many well known art dealers participated as well as proxies for major collectors and museums. Public auctions were only the visible tip of the iceberg, as many sales operated by art dealers were private. The Commission for Art Recovery has characterized Switzerland as \"a magnet\" for assets from the rise of Hitler until the end of World War II. Researching and documenting Switzerland's role \"as an art-dealing centre and conduit for cultural assets in the Nazi period and in the immediate post-war period\" was one of the missions of the Bergier Commission, under the directorship of Professor Georg Kreis. \n\nWhile the Nazis were in power, they plundered cultural property from every territory they occupied. This was conducted in a systematic manner with organizations specifically created to determine which public and private collections were most valuable to the Nazi Regime. Some of the objects were earmarked for Hitler's never realized Führermuseum, some objects went to other high-ranking officials such as Hermann Göring, while other objects were traded to fund Nazi activities.\n\nIn 1940, an organization known as the \"Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg für die Besetzten Gebiete\" (The Reichsleiter Rosenberg Institute for the Occupied Territories), or ERR, was formed, headed for Alfred Rosenberg by . The first operating unit, the western branch for France, Belgium and the Netherlands, called the \"Dienststelle Westen\" (Western Agency), was located in Paris. The chief of this Dienststelle was . Its original purpose was to collect Jewish and Freemasonic books and documents, either for destruction, or for removal to Germany for further \"study\". However, late in 1940, Hermann Göring, who in fact controlled the ERR, issued an order that effectively changed the mission of the ERR, mandating it to seize \"Jewish\" art collections and other objects. The war loot had to be collected in a central place in Paris, the Museum Jeu de Paume. At this collection point worked art historians and other personnel who inventoried the loot before sending it to Germany. Göring also commanded that the loot would first be divided between Hitler and himself. Hitler later ordered that all confiscated works of art were to be made directly available to him. From the end of 1940 to the end of 1942 Göring traveled twenty times to Paris. In the Museum Jeu de Paume, art dealer Bruno Lohse staged 20 expositions of the newly looted art objects, especially for Göring, from which Göring selected at least 594 pieces for his own collection. Göring made Lohse his liaison-officer and installed him in the ERR in March 1941 as the deputy leader of this unit. Items which Hitler and Göring did not want were made available to other Nazi leaders. Under Rosenberg and Göring's leadership, the ERR seized 21,903 art objects from German-occupied countries.\n\nOther Nazi looting organizations included the , the organization run by the art historian Hans Posse, which was particularly in charge of assembling the works for the Führermuseum, the Dienststelle Mühlmann, operated by Kajetan Mühlmann, which Göring also controlled and operated primarily in the Netherlands, Belgium, and a Sonderkommando Kuensberg connected to the minister of foreign affairs Joachim von Ribbentrop, which operated first in France, then in Russia and North Africa. In Western Europe, with the advancing German troops, were elements of the 'von Ribbentrop Battalion', named after Joachim von Ribbentrop. These men were responsible for entering private and institutional libraries in the occupied countries and removing any materials of interest to the Germans, especially items of scientific, technical or other informational value.\n\nArt collections from prominent Jewish families, including the Rothschilds, the Rosenbergs, the Wildensteins and the Schloss Family were the targets of confiscations because of their significant value. Also Jewish art dealers sold art to German organizations - often under duress, e.g. the art dealerships of Jacques Goudstikker, Benjamin and Nathan Katz and Kurt Walter Bachstitz. Also non-Jewish art dealers sold art to the Germans, e.g. the art dealers De Boer and Hoogendijk in the Netherlands.\n\nBy the end of the war, the Third Reich amassed hundreds of thousands of cultural objects.\n\nOn November 21, 1944, at the request of Owen Roberts, William J. Donovan created the Art Looting Investigation Unit (ALIU) within the OSS to collect information on the looting, confiscation and transfer of cultural objects by Nazi Germany, its allies and the various individuals and organizations involved; to prosecute war criminals and to restitute property.\n\nThe ALIU compiled information on individuals believed to have participated in art looting, identifying a group of key suspects for capture and interrogation about their roles in carrying out Nazi policy. Interviews were conducted in Bad Aussee, Austria.\n\nThe ALIU Reports detail the networks of Nazi officials, art dealers and individuals involved in the Hitler's policy of spoliation of Jews in Nazi-occupied Europe. The ALIU's final report included 175 pages divided into three parts: Detailed Interrogation Reports (DIRs), which focused individuals who played pivotal roles in German spoliation. Consolidated Interrogations Reports (CIRs), and a \"Red Flag list\" of people involved in Nazi spoilation. The ALIU Reports form one of the key records in the US Government Archives of Nazi Era Assets\n\nDetailed Intelligence Reports (DIR)\nThe first group of reports detailing the networks and relations between art dealers and other agents employed by Hitler, Göring and Rosenberg are organized by name: Heinrich Hoffmann, Ernst Buchner, Gustav Rochlitz, Gunter Schiedlausky, Bruno Lohse, Gisela Limberger, Walter Andreas Hofer, Karl Kress, Walter Bornheim, Hermann Voss and Karl Haberstock.\n\nConsolidated Interrogation Reports (CIR)\nA second set of reports detail the art looting activities of Göring (The Goering Collection), the art looting activities of the Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg (ERR), and Hitler's Linz Museum.\n\nALIU List of Red Flag Names\n\nThe Art Looting Intelligence Unit published a list of \"Red Flag Names\", organizing them by country: Germany, France, Switzerland, The Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Sweden, and Luxembourg. Each name is followed by a description of the person's activities, their relations with other people in the spoliation network and, in many cases, information concerning their arrest or imprisonment by Allied forces.\n\nTo investigate and estimate Nazi plunder in the USSR during 1941 through 1945, the Soviet State Extraordinary Commission for Ascertaining and Investigating the Crimes Committed by the German-Fascist Invaders and Their Accomplices was formed on 2 November 1942. During the Great Patriotic War and afterwards, until 1991, the Commission collected materials on Nazi crimes in the USSR, including incidents of plunder. Immediately following the war, the Commission outlined damage in detail to sixty-four of the most valuable Soviet museums, out of 427 damaged ones. In the Russian SFSR, 173 museums were found to have been plundered by the Nazis, with looted items numbering in the hundreds of thousands.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the USSR, the Government of the Russian Federation formed the State Commission for the Restitution of Cultural Valuables to replace the Soviet Commission. Experts from this Russian institution originally consulted the work of the Soviet Commission, yet continue to catalogue artworks lost during the war museum by museum. , lost artworks of 14 museums and the libraries of Voronezh Oblast, Kursk Oblast, Pskov Oblast, Rostov Oblast, Smolensk Oblast, Northern Caucasus, Gatchina, Peterhof Palace, Tsarskoye Selo (Pushkin), Novgorod and Novgorod Oblast, as well as the bodies of the Russian State Archives and CPSU Archives, were catalogued in 15 volumes, all of which were made available online. They contain detailed information on 1,148,908 items of lost artworks. The total number of lost items is unknown so far, because cataloguing work for other damaged Russian museums is ongoing.\n\nAlfred Rosenberg commanded the so-called Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg [ERR] für die Besetzten Gebiete, which was responsible for collecting art, books, and cultural objects from invaded countries, and also transferred their captured library collections back to Berlin during the retreat from Russia. \"In their search for 'research materials' ERR teams and the Wehrmacht visited 375 archival institutions, 402 museums, 531 institutes, and 957 libraries in Eastern Europe alone\". The ERR also operated in the early days of the blitzkrieg of the Low Countries. This caused some confusion about authority, priority, and the chain of command among the German Army, the von Rippentropp Battalion and the Gestapo, and as a result of personal looting among the Army officers and troops. These ERR teams were, however, very effective. One account estimates that from the Soviet Union alone: \"one hundred thousand geographical maps were taken on ideological grounds, for academic research, as means for political, geographical and economic information on Soviet cities and regions, or as collector's items\".\n\nAfter the occupation of Poland by German forces in September 1939, the Nazi regime attempted to exterminate its upper classes as well as its culture. Thousands of art objects were looted, as the Nazis systematically carried out a plan of looting prepared even before the start of hostilities. 25 museums and many other facilities were destroyed. The total cost of German Nazi theft and destruction of Polish art is estimated at 20 billion dollars, or an estimated 43% of Polish cultural heritage; over 516,000 individual art pieces were looted, including 2,800 paintings by European painters; 11,000 paintings by Polish painters; 1,400 sculptures; 75,000 manuscripts; 25,000 maps; 90,000 books, including over 20,000 printed before 1800; and hundreds of thousands of other items of artistic and historical value. Germany still has much Polish material looted during World War II. For decades there have been mostly futile negotiations between Poland and Germany concerning the return of the looted property.\n\nAfter Hitler became Chancellor, he made plans to transform his home city of Linz, Austria into the Third Reich's capital city for the arts. Hitler hired architects to work from his own designs to build several galleries and museums, which would collectively be known as the Führermuseum. Hitler wanted to fill his museum with the greatest art treasures in the world, and believed that most of the world's finest art belonged to Germany after having been looted during the Napoleonic and First World wars.\n\nThe Hermann Göring collection, a personal collection of Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring, was another large collection including confiscated property, consisted of approximately 50 percent of works of art confiscated from the enemies of the Reich. Assembled in large measure by art dealer Bruno Lohse, Göring's adviser and ERR representative in Paris, in 1945 the collection included over 2,000 individual pieces including more than 300 paintings. The U.S. National Archives and Records Administration's Consolidated Interrogation Report No. 2 states that Göring never crudely looted, instead he always managed \"to find a way of giving at least the appearance of honesty, by a token payment or promise thereof to the confiscation authorities. Although he and his agents never had an official connection with the German confiscation organizations, they nevertheless used them to the fullest extent possible.\"\n\nThe Third Reich amassed hundreds of thousands of objects from occupied nations and stored them in several key locations, such as Musée Jeu de Paume in Paris and the Nazi headquarters in Munich. As the Allied forces gained advantage in the war and bombed Germany's cities and historic institutions, Germany \"began storing the artworks in salt mines and caves for protection from Allied bombing raids. These mines and caves offered the appropriate humidity and temperature conditions for artworks.\" Well known repositories of this kind were mines in Merkers, Altaussee and Siegen. These mines were not only used for the storage of looted art but also of art that had been in Germany and Austria before the beginning of the Nazi rule. \nDegenerate art was legally banned by the Nazis from entering Germany, and so ones designated were held in what was called the Martyr's Room at the Jeu de Paume. Much of Paul Rosenberg's professional dealership and personal collection were so subsequently designated by the Nazis. Following Joseph Goebels earlier private decree to sell these degenerate works for foreign currency to fund the building of the Führermuseum and the wider war effort, Hermann Göring personally appointed a series of ERR approved dealers to liquidate these assets and then pass the funds to swell his personal art collection, including Hildebrand Gurlitt. With the looted degenerate art sold onwards via Switzerland, Rosenberg's collection was scattered across Europe. Today, some 70 of his paintings are missing, including: the large Picasso watercolor \"Naked Woman on the Beach\", painted in Provence in 1923; seven works by Matisse; and the \"Portrait of Gabrielle Diot\" by Degas.\n\nThe Allies created special commissions, such as the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives (MFAA) organization to help protect famous European monuments from destruction, and after the war, to travel to formerly Nazi-occupied territories to find Nazi art repositories. In 1944 and 1945 one of the greatest challenges for the \"Monuments Men\" was to keep Allied forces from plundering and \"taking artworks and sending them home to friends and family\"; When \"off-limits\" warning signs failed to protect the artworks the \"Monuments Men\" started to mark the storage places with white tape, which was used by Allied troops as a warning sign for unexploded mines. They recovered thousands of objects, many of which were pillaged by the Nazis.\n\nThe Allies found these artworks in over 1,050 repositories in Germany and Austria at the end of World War II. In summer 1945, Capt. Walter Farmer became the collecting point's first director. The first shipment of artworks arriving at Wiesbaden Collection Point included cases of antiquities, Egyptian art, Islamic artefacts, and paintings from the Kaiser Friedrich Museum. The collecting point also received materials from the Reichsbank and Nazi-looted, Polish, liturgical collections. At its height, Wiesbaden stored, identified, and restituted approximately 700,000 individual objects including paintings and sculptures, mainly to keep them away from the Soviet Army and wartime reparations.\n\nThe Allies collected the artworks and stored them in collecting points, in particular the Central Collection Point in Munich until they could be returned. The identifiable works of art, that had been acquired by the Germans during the Nazi rule, were returned to the countries from which they were taken. It was up to the governments of each nation if and under which circumstances they would return the objects to the original owners.\n\nWhen the Munich collection point was closed, the owners of many of the objects had not been found. Nations were also unable to find all of the owners or to verify that they were dead. There are many organizations put in place to help return the stolen items taken from the Jewish people. For example: Project Heart, the World Jewish Restitution Organization, and The Claims Conference. Depending on the circumstances these organizations may receive the art works in lieu of the heirs.\n\n\"Further reading:\" United States restitution to the Soviet Union\n\nAlthough most of the stolen artworks and antiques were documented, found or recovered \"by the victorious Allied armies ... principally hidden away in salt mines, tunnels, and secluded castles\", many artworks have never been returned to their rightful owners. Art dealers, galleries and museums worldwide have been compelled to research their collection's provenance in order to investigate claims that some of the work was acquired after it had been stolen from its original owners. Already in 1985, years before American museums recognized the issue and before the international conference on Nazi-looted assets of Holocaust victims, European countries released inventory lists of works of art, coins and medals \"that were confiscated from Jews by the Nazis during World War II, and announced the details of a process for returning the works to their owners and rightful heirs.\" In 1998 an Austrian advisory panel recommended the return of 6,292 objets d'art to their legal owners (most of whom are Jews), under the terms of a 1998 restitution law.\nNazi concentration camp and death camp victims had to strip completely before their murder, and all their personal belongings were stolen. The very valuable items such as gold coins, rings, spectacles, jewellry and other precious metal items were sent to the Reichsbank for conversion to bullion. The value was then credited to SS accounts.\n\nPieces of art looted by the Nazis can still be found in Russian/Soviet and American institutions: the Metropolitan Museum of Art revealed a list of 393 paintings that have gaps in their provenance during the Nazi Era, the Art Institute of Chicago has posted a listing of more than 500 works \"for which links in the chain of ownership for the years 1933–1945 are still unclear or not yet fully determined.\" The San Diego Museum of Art and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art provide lists on the internet to determine if art items within their collection were stolen by the Nazis.\n\nStuart Eizenstat, the Under Secretary of State and head of the U.S. delegation sponsoring the 1998 international conference on Nazi-looted assets of Holocaust victims in Washington conference stated that \"From now on, ... the sale, purchase, exchange and display of art from this period will be addressed with greater sensitivity and a higher international standard of responsibility.\" The conference was attended by more than forty countries and thirteen different private entities, and the goal was to come to a federal consensus on how to handle Nazi-Era Looted Art. The conference was built on the foundation of the Nazi Gold Conference held in London in 1997. The U.S. Department of State hosted the conference with the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum from November 30 to December 3, 1998.\n\nAfter the conference the Association of Art Museum Directors developed guidelines which require museums to review the provenance or history of their collections, focusing especially on art looted by the Nazis. The National Gallery of Art in Washington identified more than 400 European paintings with gaps in their provenance during World War II era. One particular piece of art, \"Still Life with Fruit and Game\" by the 16th-century Flemish painter Frans Snyders, was sold by Karl Haberstock, whom the World Jewish Congress describes as \"one of the most notorious Nazi art dealers.\" In 2000 the New York City's Museum of Modern Art still told Congress that they were \"not aware of a single Nazi-tainted work of art in our collection, of the more than 100,000\" they held.\n\nIn 1979 two paintings, a Renoir, Tête de jeune fille, and a Pissarro, Rue de village, appeared on Interpol's \"12 Most Wanted List,\" but to date no one knows their whereabouts (ATA Newsletter, Nov. '79, vol. 1, no. 9, p. 1. '78, 326.1-2) The New Jersey owner has asked IFAR to republish information about the theft, with the hope that someone will recognize the paintings. The owner wrote IFAR that when his parents emigrated from Berlin in 1938, two of their paintings \"mysteriously disappeared.\" All of their other possessions were shipped from Germany to the U.S. via the Netherlands, and everything except the box containing these two paintings arrived intact. After World War II the owner's father made a considerable effort to locate the paintings, but was unsuccessful. Over the years numerous efforts have been made to recover them, articles have been published, and an advertisement appeared in the German magazine, Die Weltkunst, May 15, 1959. A considerable reward has been offered, subject to usual conditions, but there has been no response. Anyone with information about these two paintings is asked to contact IFAR.\n\nHowever, restitution efforts initiated by German politicians have not been free of controversy, either. As the German law for restitution \"applies to \"cultural assets lost as a result of Nazi persecution, \"which includes paintings that Jews who emigrated from Germany sold to support themselves\", pretty much any trade involving Jews in that era is affected, and the benefit of the doubt is given to claimants. German leftist politicians Klaus Wowereit (SPD, mayor of Berlin) and Thomas Flierl (Linkspartei) were sued in 2006 for being overly willing to give away the 1913 painting \"\" of expressionist Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, which was in Berlin's Brücke Museum. On display in Cologne in 1937, it had been sold for 3,000 Reichsmark by a Jewish family residing in Switzerland to a German collector. This sum is considered by experts to have been well over the market price. The museum, which obtained the painting in 1980 after several ownership changes, could not prove that the family actually received the money. It was restituted to the heiress of the former owners, and she had it auctioned off for $38.1 Million.\n\nIn 2010, as work began to extend an underground line from Alexanderplatz through the historic city centre to the Brandenburg Gate, a number of sculptures from the degenerate art exhibition were unearthed in the cellar of a private house close to the \"Rote Rathaus\". These included, for example, the bronze cubist style statue of a female dancer by the artist Marg Moll, and are now on display at the Neues Museum.\n\nFrom 2013 up to 2015 a committee researched the collection of the Dutch Royal family. The committee focussed on all objects acquired by the family since 1933 and which were made prior to 1945. In total 1300 artworks were studied. Dutch musea had already researched their collection in order to find objects stolen by the Nazis. It appeared that one painting of the forest near Huis ten Bosch by the Dutch painter Joris van der Haagen came from a Jewish collector. He was forced to hand the painting over to the former Jewish bank Lippmann, Rosenthal & Co in Amsterdam, which collected money and other possessions of the Jews in Amsterdam. The painting was bought by Queen Juliana in 1960. The family plans to return the painting to the heirs of the owner in 1942, a Jewish collector.\n\nApproximately 20% of the art in Europe was looted by the Nazis, and there are well over 100,000 items that have not been returned to their rightful owners. The majority of what is still missing includes everyday objects such as china, crystal or silver.\n\nSome objects of great cultural significance remain missing, though how much has yet to be determined. This is a major issue for the art market, since legitimate organizations do not want to deal in objects with unclear ownership titles. Since the mid-1990s, after several books, magazines, and newspapers began exposing the subject to the general public, many dealers, auction houses and museums have grown more careful about checking the provenance of objects that are available for purchase in case they are looted. Some museums in the United States and elsewhere have agreed to check the provenance of works in their collections with the implied promise that suspect works would be returned to rightful owners if the evidence so dictates. But the process is time-consuming and slow, and very few disputed works have been found in public collections.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, information has become more accessible due to political and economic changes as well as advances in technology. Privacy laws in some countries have expired so records that were once difficult to obtain are now open to the public. Information from former Soviet countries that was previously unobtainable is now available, and many organisations have posted information online, making it widely accessible.\n\nIn addition to the role of courts in determining restitution or compensation, some states have created official bodies for the consideration and resolution of claims. In the United Kingdom, the Spoliation Advisory Panel advises the Department for Culture, Media and Sport on such claims. The International Foundation for Art Research (IFAR), a not-for-profit educational and research organization, has helped provide information leading to restitution.\n\nIn 2013 the Canadian government created the Holocaust-era Provenance Research and Best-Practice Guidelines Project, through which they are investigating the holdings of six art galleries in Canada.\n\nOn 14 January 1992, historian Marc Jansen reported in an article in \"NRC Handelsblad\" that archival collections stolen from the Netherlands including the records of the International Archives for the Women's Movement (), which had been looted in 1940, had been found in Russia. The confiscated records were initially sent to Berlin and later was moved to Sudetenland for security reasons. At the end of the war, the Red Army took the documents from German-occupied Czechoslovakia and in 1945-46, stored them in the KGB's (), meaning special archive, which was housed in Moscow. Though agreements were drafted almost immediately after the discovery, bureaucratic delays kept the archives from being returned for eleven years. In 2003, the partial recovery of the papers of some of the most noted feminists in the pre-war period, including Aletta Jacobs and Rosa Manus, some 4,650 books and periodicals, records of the International Council of Women and International Woman Suffrage Alliance, among many photographs were returned. Approximately half of the original collection is still unrecovered.\n\nIn early 2012, over one thousand pieces of artwork were discovered at the home of Cornelius Gurlitt, the son of Hildebrand Gurlitt, of which about 200-300 pieces are suspected of being looted art, some of which may have been exhibited in the degenerate art exhibition held by the Nazis before World War II in several large German cities. The collection contains works by Marc Chagall, Otto Dix, and Henri Matisse, Renoir and Max Liebermann amongst many others.\n\nIn January 2014, researcher Dominik Radlmaier of the city of Nuremberg announced that eight objects had been identified as lost art with a further eleven being under strong suspicion. The city's research project was started in 2004 and Radlmaier has been investigating full-time since then.\n\nIn Walbrzych, Poland two amateur explorers — Piotr Koper and Andreas Richter — claim to have found a rumored armored train that is believed to be filled with gold, gems and weapons. The train was rumored to be sealed in a tunnel in the closing days of World War II before the collapse of The Third Reich. Only 10% of the tunnel has been explored because much of the tunnel has collapsed. Finding the train will be an expensive and complicated operation involving a lot of funding, digging, and drilling. However, to support their claims the explorers said experts have examined the site with ground-penetrating, thermal and magnetic sensors that picked up signs of a railway tunnel with metal tracks. The legitimacy of these claims has yet to be determined, yet the explorers are requesting 10% of the value of whatever is within the train if their findings are correct. Poland's deputy culture minister, Piotr Zuchowski, said he was \"99 percent convinced\" that the train had finally been found but scientists claim that the explorers' findings are false.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "41976334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41976334", "title": "On Cinema", "text": "On Cinema\n\nOn Cinema (also called On Cinema at the Cinema for the video series) is an American comedic film review podcast and web series starring Tim Heidecker and Gregg Turkington. The duo appear as a pair of hapless movie reviewers (using their own names). The show started as an independently released podcast from 2011 to 2013, before being picked up as a professionally produced web video series by Thing X in 2012–13 for its first two seasons, and then moving to Adult Swim.com in 2013. It has aired 10 seasons, plus one special\nseason titled \"The Trial\". In addition, \"On Cinema\" spawned a spinoff web series in its fifth season, \"Decker,\" a simultaneous spoof of political-thrillers and homebrew video intended for the web. It later became a TV series, and as of 2018, it has aired 6 seasons of episodes total on Adultswim.com and Adult Swim.\n\nHeidecker and Turkington began making the podcast as a prank and a mockery of the \"self-indulgence\" of the podcasting community. Both Heidecker and Turkington have created an immersive universe through \"On Cinema\" and \"Decker.\" A live Oscar special is also done every year, streamed via YouTube, with interactive elements for fans, such as polling. Several seasons of \"On Cinema\" have discernible multi-episode plot arcs as Heidecker and Turkington explore the dynamic and characters they have created both in the series' episodes and, simultaneously, on social media, through Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube.\n\nThe show has a dedicated cult following of fans who play along with the storylines via social media, often taking sides as \"GreggHeads\" or \"TimHeads\". Heidecker and Turkington also started \"Decker-Con\", where they appear in character and interact with fans.\n\nFor the Summer of 2018, Heidecker and Turkington initiated a nationwide \"On Cinema Live!\" tour with special guests from the On Cinema/Decker universe and special content.\n\nEarly audio episodes of \"On Cinema\" were quite short, frequently no more than one or two minutes long. Heidecker and Turkington would \"review\" films on these podcasts without actually providing any meaningful information or critical insight. Nearly every film that has been discussed or mentioned on \"On Cinema\" since the podcast's inception has received a \"5 bags of popcorn\" rating on a scale of five from the two reviewers, regardless of its reception elsewhere in the press or with the viewing public.\n\nWith the series' growth into an online video series, episodes grew to an average length of eight to twelve minutes. Although reviewing films remains a central conceit, the focus of the series quickly shifted from a mockery of amateur podcasting to an extended character study of the two podcasters. Heidecker, in character on \"On Cinema\", frequently uses his time on camera to discuss anything on his character's mind except film, especially his bizarre ailments, personal crises, and right-wing political views, or to simply berate and belittle Turkington. Turkington's character fancies himself a \"film expert,\" his primary qualification being an enormous collection of forgotten and arguably forgettable mainstream films from the 1980s and 1990s on VHS. The series continues to provide reviews that purposely offer no real critical insight. Recent seasons as of 2018 have seen Tim lose interest in reviewing and start a band first named \"Dekkar\" then \"DKR\" .\n\nGuest appearances have included Jordan Hoffman, Jimmy McNichol, Joe Estevez, Lawrence Turman, Sally Kellerman, Candy Clark, Mark Proksch, John Aprea, Peyton Reed, and Nicholas Meyer, some of whom also appear in the \"Decker\" series.\n\nThe \"On Cinema\" podcast was produced independently by Tim and Gregg. The podcast consists of Tim, along with Gregg as a \"special guest\" for every episode, covering movies poorly and with little insight, and often engaging in arguments. Gregg later developed a more pretentious \"film buff\" persona, and Tim took a turn to being obnoxiously political, sometimes devoting entire episodes to conspiracy theories, much to the chagrin of Gregg.\n\nAnother running joke that was carried over to the video series is Gregg's refusal to believe that \"\" is really \"Star Trek II,\" instead often believing stubbornly that \"\" is the real Star Trek II.\n\nStarting this season, the show is now in video format via Thing X.com, as well as having its name changed to \"On Cinema at the Cinema\". The series is similar to the podcast, but this time episodes always take place on a set meant to look like a movie theatre. Gregg is still never acknowledged as more than a guest each episode, and starts his weekly segments \"Popcorn Classics\" and \"On Cinema On Location\" where he brings in obscure, forgotten VHS movies to showcase and travels to filming locations of obscure movies, respectively. Tim begins using \"60 second soap box\" to talk about current political issues with a conservative narrative, much to the continued annoyance of Gregg. With the start of the web series, Tim uses a rating scale of \"bags of popcorn\" ranging from 0–5, and while Gregg uses five as a max, Tim often goes overboard giving scores of \"6 bags\" or even more, creating tension and confusion throughout the season. Most of the films reviewed get a score of at least \"5 bags\" from both reviewers.\n\nTim reveals he has blood clotting in his brain but does not want to get surgery because of \"side effects, the whole medical industry, and Obamacare\" while Gregg pushes for him to get surgery. In episode 208, Tim introduces the first special guest, Ayaka, a foreign exchange student from Japan staying with Tim's family.\n\nThe first Live On Cinema Oscar Special airs, where Tim and Gregg live stream during the Oscars and drink alcohol. Tim gets very drunk and throws up on some of Gregg's VHS tapes which causes Gregg to walk off the set.\n\nSeason 3 moved the series from Thing X to Adultswim.com. The season begins with Tim in a head bandage and clearly in physical pain as he went through with surgery for his blood clots. As a result of him going through the surgery, Tim's wife divorces him and this is the last time his family is referred to throughout the series. Gregg begins his goal of making the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" by becoming the first person in history to watch 500 movies in 500 days. Tim kicks Gregg off the show after Gregg drives all the way from Hollywood to San Francisco to make a video alleging the location of a \"Star Trek\" filming location, after he and Tim had disagreed on it before. John Aprea and Ayaka are guests on the next episode, where Tim reveals he is dating Ayaka and says he loves her for the first time. In the season finale, Gregg returns to the show as Ayaka was deported back to Japan.\n\nTim begins season four with many health problems and introduces his personal doctor, Dr. San (played by Zac Holtzman), an alternative medical doctor treating Tim with acupuncture, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and other \"natural\" medicines. Dr. San begins coming onto the set with Tim, despite Gregg's objections. However, Tim's face becomes infected from the acupuncture and he denounces Dr. San.\n\nAyaka sends a letter to Tim on the show saying she is pregnant with Tim's child.\n\nThe second Live Oscar Special, Tim and Gregg drink (with Tim getting much drunker than Gregg). We are introduced to Mark Proksch who does impersonations of W.C. Fields and Charlie Chaplin.\n\nTim moves to Jackson Hole, Wyoming and buys a motorcycle to commute back and forth between there and Hollywood for the On Cinema taping.\n\nTim announces that Ayaka has had an abortion, despite remaining pro-life on the topic, saying \"when you are in that situation, choices have to be on the table.\" However, Gregg brings Ayaka onto On Cinema via Skype from Japan, revealing she did go through with the pregnancy and naming the boy Tom Cruise Heidecker Junior, after the actor Tom Cruise. Ayaka moves back to America with Tom Cruise Junior and into Gregg's apartment. This upsets Tim and he moves permanently to Jackson Hole. He makes Gregg host of the show and hands off all responsibilities to him in the season finale.\n\nGregg begins his first season as host, but after he is unable to find a guest, he records himself having conversations with himself and plays VHS video of his conversation during the episode.\n\nTim returns as host in episode 602 after he realized his new friends in Jackson Hole were white supremacists. He rekindles his relationship with Ayaka and moves into Gregg's apartment with her and Tom Cruise Junior. In the season finale, Tim proposes to Ayaka and she accepts.\n\nThe third Live Oscar Special airs, while Tim and Gregg get drunk and Tim, once again, gets much drunker than Gregg and becomes belligerent. Peyton Reed comes on the Special to promote his new film \"Ant-Man\" and announces that Gregg has been cast as a minor character in the movie, which upsets Tim. In the finale segment, Gregg introduces James Dean, the former actor who was believed to be dead since 1955. After reading on a message board about how Dean faked his own death and wrote a memoir called \"I'm Alive: How I Faked my own Death\" he brings Dean on set as his return to the public. Tim does not believe this is the real James Dean, leading to him verbally and physically threatening Dean before trashing the set.\n\nGregg moves to Victorville, California and opens the Victorville Film Archives in a storage locker, where he also lives.\n\nTim gives \"Ant-Man\" a rare one-bag of popcorn which upsets Gregg, leading to him accusing Tim of paying $15,000 to have a minor role in the new \"Fantastic Four\" movie, which Tim denies.\n\nAfter meeting a man at Guitar Center named Axiom, Tim starts a rock band named \"Dekkar\" with him. Their debut single Empty Bottle is released on the show, which upsets Gregg as it is not movie related and was played instead of his Popcorn Classic segment.\n\nGregg tells Tim that Dr. San, who Tim has been looking for since he infected Tim's face with dirty needles in acupuncture in season four, is Ayaka's boss at her job. Tim walks off the set angry that he had not realized this. However, the next episode is \"The Doctor San Forgiveness Special\" where both Tim and Dr. San forgive each other. Dr. San takes over as Tom Cruise Junior's new pediatric doctor.\n\nBy the season seven finale, Tim announces that Tom Cruise Junior has died. He plays a musical tribute to his son with Axiom and Dr. San.\n\nThe fourth Live Oscar Special is the biggest one yet, with periodic musical performances by Dekkar (much to the annoyance of Gregg), the \"Oscar Olympics\" featuring three games, officiated by Joe Estevez, and a DNA test by Dr. San of James Dean, which proves that he is in fact, James Dean. Tim hides the fact he has been drinking alcohol during the Special while no one else is, and he becomes angered by the DNA results. He proceeds to kick Dr. San off the set. An animated rendering of Tom Cruise Junior as a young adult comes on stage, in which Tim and the animated Tom Cruise Junior come out against vaccination.\n\nSeason eight moves the show to Victorville, where Tim has now moved into the storage unit with Gregg. They both buy an abandoned movie theater and open it as the \"Victorville Film Center\" where instead of playing new releases, a nightly showing from Gregg's VHS collection of Popcorn Classics is played. Attendance is minimal because of the obscurity of the films. Mark Proksch is hired as a concessions cashier.\n\nDr. San prescribes Tim a \"nutritional vape system\" in which Tim replaces all meals and food with an electronic cigarette full of supposed nutrients. However, Tim's physical condition worsens as the season progresses, as he comes to the set sweating, bruised, hallucinating, and unfocused. Despite this, he continues to use his nutritional vape system. After he cannot take the physical pain and symptoms of the vape system, Tim goes to an actual doctor who informs him the vape and his blood is full of Lsd, cocaine, and multiple other drugs – both legal and illegal. Tim quits the vape system and swears off Dr. San once again. Tim announces that Ayaka is pregnant with their second child. After Tim tries to get Ayaka to get an abortion, she leaves him and moves back to Japan. Tim begins a romantic relationship with Axiom's sister, Juliana.\n\nA fire is started in the storage unit after Tim's vape pen overheats one night, burning the entire facility down including the Victorville Film Archive. Tim suffers third degree burns on all of his body, including his face and hands. After insurance will not cover the cost of the fire, he returns to the show in bandages so he can keep working to pay for the damages and lawsuits, which exceed $1,000,000 according to Gregg.\n\nHowever, in Tim's return to On Cinema, he is surprised by an intervention by Gregg, Joe Estevez, John Aprea, Mark Proksch, Ayaka, Ayaka's father, and Axiom. They encourage Tim to live a healthier life, which upsets Tim. He yells and kicks everyone but Axiom out, and announces plans to start an electronic music version of Dekkar, now called \"DKR\".\n\nThe season finale ends with a remixed, electronic version of Empty Bottle and Tim announcing that Juliana is now pregnant with his child while Ayaka will go through with her pregnancy too.\n\nSeason nine begins with Gregg informing the audience that the Victorville Film Center has burnt down while he speculates Tim may have done it to collect insurance money.\n\nAfter Gregg and Tim move back to Hollywood, Tim opens up \"Six Bag Cinemas\", a new movie theater concept with recliner chairs and a waiter (who is Mark) that brings food to customers during the movie. Gregg constantly criticizes the theater and food.\n\nAfter Tim stops using the facial cream for the burns on his face, his skin dies and he needs a skin transplant. After a selection process in which Tim volunteers most of the potential donors himself, Manuel from DKR is chosen and donates skin off of his lower back and buttocks to Tim.\n\nTim and Dr. San are arrested and jailed on murder and manslaughter charges. At Tim's \"Electric Sun Desert Music Festival\" in Apple Valley, California, Dr. San allegedly gave out free samples of his nutritional vape system, the same one Tim uses, resulting in 20 deaths. Gregg takes over as host with Mark as his co-host, and the two spend an entire episode blaming Tim instead of reviewing movies.\n\nTim returns on bail, and finishes the last three episodes of the season with Turkington. Together with his lawyer, Doug Lyman, Tim has decided to pin the 20 deaths on Dr. San and the Apple Valley authorities who did not respond in time. In the season finale, it is revealed that Dr. San has committed suicide in jail, and that the relatives of the 20 who died are now primarily blaming Tim for the deaths. At the end of the final episode, Tim reveals to Gregg that he will never forget what Gregg said about him on the show, no matter what happens to him.\n\nA special event, titled \"The Trial\", began on November 15, 2017, streaming on Adult Swim's website with the trial of Tim Heidecker for the death of the \"Electric Sun 20\". Tim was found not guilty of the death of one of the 20, as that victim died of a heroin overdose. A mistrial was called for the remaining 19, due to a hung jury with 11 guilty and 1 not guilty verdicts. Gregg accused Tim of bribing the juror who voted not guilty.\n\nDirector and writer Nicholas Meyer appears as one of the testifiers in an ongoing joke alluding to a long-standing disagreement between Tim and Gregg as to whether or not San Francisco is the setting for the film \"Star Trek II.\" \n\nDuring the Fifth Oscar Special, Mark got locked tight into a standard diving dress while doing an impression of Richard Dreyfuss character in the Jaws movie and had to be hospitalized for asphyxiation.\n\nTim returns from the trial free from prison but facing a civil suit from one of the families of the Electric Sun 19. His assets, including On Cinema and Decker, are being seized and he claims he might soon be facing bankruptcy. After threatening to commit suicide and with help from his attorney (Mark Dwyer), Tim manages to convince the Delgado family to let him try to earn money for them with his various assets. The Delgado's and Tim's Attorney like the show after Episode 7, and hire Gregg as the managing editor of the newly incorporated Delgado Media Holding company, effectively giving him creative control on On Cinema.\n\nThe intro and production set have been upgraded, and the show now has a sponsor by name of Rio Jenesis, a protein shake company that creates a \"germ shield\", of which Tim is now consuming. Gregg begins writing letters to Tim Burton, questioning why he didn't work with Johnny Depp in \"Sherlock Gnomes\". He also announces that he has resurrected his film archives, which appears to be several bins full of VHS tapes (later revealed to be stocked in Mark Proksch hospital room) and is now collecting and wearing movie promotional hats to Tim's vocal displeasure. Episodes 4 through 6 were filmed in 360-degree video.\n\nAs of Episode 7, the show has returned to form with a stronger focus on movies than it had previously had in the last several seasons. However, this is in the context of Tim needing to turn the show around, with him openly discussing the possibility of suicide if it doesn't become more successful. The next three episodes, 8–10, saw Gregg's role on the show increasingly become that of the host, while Tim's role was diminished, allowing for more of Gregg's segments, including Popcorn Classics, to become larger segments in each episode. These changes coincided with Gregg's new role as the managing editor in On Cinema's parent company. In episode 10, the season finale, Tim threw a fit of rage and insulted the Delgados while announcing his wish to campaign for the post of district attorney of the San Bernardino County.\n\nHeidecker has stated that On Cinema was started out of a desire to mock the podcasting community. The first episode was recorded on set of \"The Comedy\", where Heidecker and Turkington were working together, after Heidecker proposed the idea between takes.\nIn April 2017, On Cinema initiated a Patreon page for funding, most of it going to the Oscar specials, with some of the higher options including receiving producer credits, walk-on roles for the Oscar specials, or live custom Skype reviews from Gregg Turkington.\n\nThe show has a dedicated cult following of fans who interact with the storylines via social media, often taking sides as \"GreggHeads\" or \"TimHeads\" in the frequent personal conflicts between the hosts which are often only tangentially, if at all, related to films or cinema. During the annual live Oscar special, Tim and Gregg both frequently provide interactive elements via online polls for fans to vote on. This cult following is especially found on YouTube, Facebook and Twitter, the latter through Gregg and Tim's respective profiles, of which Gregg has completely devoted to the persona of his alter-ego. Heidecker and Turkington have also appeared in character on the podcasts \"Kreative Kontrol\" and \"Best Show\" in 2015 and 2017.\n\nHeidecker and Turkington also started \"Decker-Con\", where new episodes of \"Decker\" are shown to fans and the cast appears as their \"On Cinema\" characters to field questions.\n\nIn 2013 the \"On Cinema Film Guide\" app was released, featuring the voices of Turkington and Heidecker reviewing over 17,000 films.\n\nFor \"The Trial\", Heidecker and Turkington upended the traditional review aspect of the series, and staged an elaborate mock event where Tim's character was \"on trial for murder\" that lasted over a week. It received acclaim from observers, some of whom called it \"brilliant\" and \"ambitious.\"\n\nIn 2018, Heidecker and Turkington initiated a nationwide \"On Cinema Live!\" tour with special guests from the On Cinema/Decker universe such as Joe Estevez, the band \"Dekkar\" and special content created only for the tour, such as a live reviewing of all mid-2018 major release films: \"Superfly\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"Ant Man & The Wasp\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24237238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24237238", "title": "Padah-Lin Caves", "text": "Padah-Lin Caves\n\nPadah-Lin Caves (, ; also Padalin or Badalin) are limestone caves located in Taunggyi District, Shan State, Burma (Myanmar). It is located near a path from Nyaunggyat to Yebock, on a spur of the Nwalabo mountains within the Panlaung Reserved Forest. There are two caves; the smaller of the two is a rock shelter while the larger cave comprises nine chambers connected by narrow passages in a north-south axis, three large sink holes that let natural light in, and several active speleothem formations.\n\nA superficial investigation of the caves in Shan State had been performed by the American South-East Expedition for Early Man in 1937–1938, and geologist U Khin Maung Kyaw discovered the paintings in 1960. In 1969–1972, the Burmese government organized a more in-depth investigation, and another expedition to the caves was mounted in 2004.\n\nThe site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on 4 October 1996 in the Cultural category.\n\nRed ochre paintings of human hands, fish, bulls, bison, deer and other objects are visible at the rock shelter. The art has not been directly dated. The walls of the cave have also been decorated with carved patterns. More than 300 cupules have been documented in the rockshelter.\n\nExcavations at the rock shelter from 1969 to 1972 recovered seven pieces of charcoal and bone that were radiocarbon dated to between 1,750 and 13,000 years BP. The excavation also recovered over 1,600 stone artifacts as well as many pieces of bone and red ochre. The stone artifacts include unifacial choppers, bifacial chopping tools, perforated stone rings, adzes and scrapers. Excavations in the larger cave conducted by Ben Marwick in 2016 revealed deposits dating to 65,000 years ago, and flaked stone artefacts dating to 25,000 years ago.\n\nA small Buddhist stupa has been erected at the eastern end of the rockshelter, and several stupas of varying sizes have been built in the chambers of the cave.\n\n"}
{"id": "3144384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3144384", "title": "Pakistani folklore", "text": "Pakistani folklore\n\nPakistan has a wide variety of folklore, mostly circulated regionally. However, certain tales have related variants in other regions of the country or in neighbouring countries. \"Pakistani mythology\" here means the myths and sacred narratives of the culturally and linguistically related groups of ancient peoples who inhabited the region of Pakistan and its borderlands.\n\nThe provinces of Pakistan are known by the love stories in their folklore that have been immortalized by singers, reciters and storytellers of the regions.\n\nSindhi folklore () is the folk tradition which has developed in Sindh over a number of centuries.Sindh abounds with folklore, in all forms, and colors from such obvious manifestations as the traditional Watayo Faqir tales, the legend of \"Moriro\", epic tale of Dodo Chanesar, to the heroic character of Marui which distinguishes it among the contemporary folklores of the region. The love story of Sassui, who pines for her lover Punhu, is known and sung in every Sindhi settlement. Other examples of the folklore of Sindh include the stories of Umar Marui and Suhuni Mehar. \nSindhi folk Singers and women play a vital role to transmit the Sindhi folklore. They sang the folktales of Sindh in songs with passion in every village of Sindh.\n\nSindhi folklore has been compiled in a series of forty volumes under Sindhi Adabi Board's project of Folklore and Literature.This valuable project was accomplished by noted sindhi scholar Dr.Nabi Bux Baloch.The material for the project has been collected both from the oral traditions village folks and the written record. This folklore series deals with diverse segments Sindhi folklore and literature i.e. Fables and Fairy-tales, pseudo-historical Romances, Folk-poetry, Folk songs, Proverbs, Riddles etc.\n\nBalochi folklore is alive with the love stories of Hani and Shah Murad Chakar, Shahdad and Mahnaz, Lallah and Granaz, Bebarg and Granaz, and Mast and Sammo, among others. The war tales of the Baloch are equally stirring. The \"chap\", a Baloch style of dancing, has a curious rhythm distinguished by an inertial back sway with every forward step. Baloch music has a unique flavour of its own.\n\nKashmiri regions in the north are equally rich in folklore.\n\nIn the Pukhtun areas of the northwest, the North-West Frontier Province is the home of energetic warlike dancers, the most prominent being the Khattak dance, which bears the name of the tribe that dances it. The romantic tale of Adam Khan and Durkhanai features a lute player (\"rabab\") whose music earns the love of a beautiful girl, although she hasn't seen him yet.\n\nMany folk tales from Punjab have been disseminated worldwide by the Punjabi diaspora, especially in the UK and United States. The tale of two lovers, Heer and Ranjha, is based in the Pakistani part of the Punjab, in a city called Jhang. Today it is celebrated in songs, movies, theatre, and quotations. One may call a romantic person a Ranjha, meaning he is a devoted lover. Similarly a girl in love may be called \"Heer.\" Apart from the epic of Hir and Ranjha, the Punjab has a rich tradition of ballads, folk tales, folk music and dance. The folklore of the Potohar Plateau of the north shows a local variant, while the lush green irrigated agriculture of the central plains is home to more sophisticated forms of folklore. The oldest living urban centre of Multan in the south is home to gentler forms of music and dance.\n\nSaraiki areas in the south are equally rich in folklore.\n\nThe Muslim high culture of Pakistan and rest of South Asia emphasizes Arabic, Persian and Turkic culture. Islamic mythology and is part of Pakistans folklore, as Islamic religion dominates Pakistan since it was imposed by the pan-Islamism colonialists of the Ottoman Empire. The Shahnameh, \"One Thousand and One Nights\" and \"Sinbad the Sailor\" were part of the education of children in what is now Pakistan before English education was imposed by the British colonialism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "554950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554950", "title": "Postmaterialism", "text": "Postmaterialism\n\nIn sociology, postmaterialism is the transformation of individual values from materialist, physical, and economic to new individual values of autonomy and self-expression.\n\nThe term was popularized by the political scientist Ronald Inglehart in his 1977 book \"The Silent Revolution\", in which he discovered that the formative affluence experienced by the post-war generations was leading some of them to take their material security for granted and instead place greater importance on non-material goals such as self-expression, autonomy, freedom of speech, gender equality and environmentalism. Inglehart argued that with increasing prosperity, such postmaterial values would gradually increase in the publics of advanced industrial societies through the process of intergenerational replacement.\n\nPostmaterialism is a tool in developing an understanding of modern culture. It can be considered in reference of three distinct concepts of materialism. The first kind of materialism, and the one in reference to which the word postmaterialism is used most often, refers to materialism as a value-system relating to the desire for fulfillment of material needs (such as security, sustenance and shelter) and an emphasis on material luxuries in a consumerist society. A second referent is the materialist conception of history held by many socialists, most notably Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, as well as their philosophic concept of dialectical materialism. The third definition of materialism concerns the philosophical argument that matter is the only existing reality. The first concept is sociological, the second is both philosophical and sociological, and the third is philosophical.\n\nDepending on which of the three above notions of materialism are being discussed, postmaterialism can be an ontological postmaterialism, an existentialistic postmaterialism, an ethical postmaterialism, or a political-sociological postmaterialism, which is also the best known.\n\nThe sociological theory of postmaterialism was developed in the 1970s by Ronald Inglehart. After extensive survey research, Inglehart postulated that the Western societies under the scope of his survey were undergoing transformation of individual values, switching from materialist values, emphasizing economic and physical security, to a new set of postmaterialist values, which instead emphasized autonomy and self-expression. Inglehart argued that rising prosperity was gradually liberating the publics of advanced industrial societies from the stress of basic acquisitive or materialistic needs.\n\nObserving that the younger people were much more likely to embrace postmaterialist values, Inglehart speculated that this silent revolution was not merely a case of a life-cycle change, with people becoming more materialist as they aged, but a genuine example of generational replacement causing intergenerational value change.\n\nThe theory of intergenerational change is based on two key hypotheses:\n\nInglehart assumed that individuals pursue various goals in something akin to a hierarchical order. While people may universally aspire to freedom and autonomy, the most pressing material needs like hunger, thirst and physical security have to be satisfied first, since they are immediately linked with survival. According to Inglehart's interpretation of Abraham Maslow's hierarchy of human goals, while scarcity prevails, these \"materialistic\" goals will have priority over postmaterialist goals like belonging, esteem, and aesthetic and intellectual satisfaction. However, once the satisfaction of the survival needs can be taken for granted, the focus will gradually shift to these \"non-material\" goods.\n\nThe relationship between material conditions and value priorities is not one of immediate adjustment. A large body of evidence indicates that people's basic values are largely fixed when they reach adulthood, and change relatively little thereafter. Therefore, cohorts which often experienced economic scarcity would \"ceteris paribus\" (all things being equal) place a high value on meeting economic needs (such as valuing economic growth above protecting the environment) and on safety needs (will support more authoritarian styles of leadership, will exhibit strong feelings of national pride, will be strongly in favour of maintaining a large, strong army and will be more willing to sacrifice civil liberties for the sake of law and order). On the other hand, cohorts who have experienced sustained high material affluence start to give high priority to values such as individual improvement, personal freedom, citizen input in government decisions, the ideal of a society based on humanism, and maintaining a clean and healthy environment.\n\nTogether, these two hypotheses carry the implication that, given long periods of material affluence, a growing part of society will embrace postmaterialist value systems, an implication which has been indeed borne out internationally in the past 30 years of survey data. The postmaterial orientations acquired by each cohort during socialization have been observed to remain remarkably steady over the time-frame of multiple decades, being a more stable value-system in contrast to the more volatile political and social attitudes.\n\nThere are several ways of empirically measuring the spread of postmaterialism in a society. A common and relatively simple way is by creating an index from survey respondents' patterns of responses to a series of items which were designed to measure personal political priorities.\n\nThe theoretical assumptions and the empirical research connected with the concept of postmaterialism have received considerable attention and critical discussion in the human sciences. Amongst others, the validity, the stability, and the causation of postmaterialism has been doubted.\n\nThe so-called \"Inglehart-index\" has been included in several surveys (e.g., General Social Survey, World Values Survey, Eurobarometer, ALLBUS, Turning Points of the Life-Course). The time series in ALLBUS (German General Social Survey) is particularly comprehensive. From 1980 to 1990 the share of \"pure post-materialists\" increased from 13 to 31 per cent in West Germany. After the economic and social stress caused by German reunification in 1990 it dropped to 23 per cent in 1992 and stayed on that level afterwards. The ALLBUS sample from the less affluent population in East Germany show much lower portions of postmaterialists (1991: 15 per cent, 1992: 10 per cent, 1998: 12 per cent). International data from the 2000 World Values Survey show the highest percentage of postmaterialists in Australia (35 per cent) followed by Austria (30 per cent), Canada (29 per cent), Italy (28 per cent), Argentina (25 per cent), United States (25 per cent), Sweden (22 per cent), Netherlands (22 per cent), Puerto Rico (22 per cent) etc. In spite of some questions raised by these and other data, measurements of postmaterialism have \"prima facie\" proven to be statistically important variables in many analyses.\n\nAs increasing postmaterialism is based on the abundance of material possessions or resources, it should not be mixed indiscriminately with asceticism or general denial of consumption. In some way postmaterialism may be described as super-materialism. German data show that there is a tendency towards this orientation among young people, in the economically rather secure public service, and in the managerial middle class.\n\nRecently, the issue of a \"second generation of postmaterialism\" appearing on the scene of worldwide civil society, to a large extent conceived as their \"positive ideological embodiment\", has been brought up by cultural scientist Roland Benedikter in his seven-volume book series \"Postmaterialismus\" (2001–2005).\n"}
{"id": "38610738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38610738", "title": "Racism in Finland", "text": "Racism in Finland\n\nA 2011 poll shows that 66% of Finnish respondents considered Finland to be a racist country but only 14% admitted to being racists themselves. Minority groups getting the most negative attitudes were Finnish Kale, Somalis and ethnic groups mostly consisting of Muslims.\n\nIn December 2012 the Finnish Police reported an increase in cases of racism and related physical abuse. In February 2013 researchers of racism and multiculturalism reported an increase in the number of threats and abuse. In January 2013 Save the Children reported that immigrant children are facing an increasing amount of racist abuse. In June 2011 a researcher reported an increase in the amount of racist violence targeting children and teenagers.\n\nAccording to European Commission against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI) of the Council of Europe, neither the Ombudsman for Minorities nor Advisory Board for Ethnic Relations have the financial and human resources to effectively perform according to their mandate. There is a National Non-Discrimination and Equality Tribunal, but it cannot order compensation to victims of racial discrimination. The legal provisions of the Aliens' Act are discriminatory and subject ethnic minorities to racial profiling by the police.\n\nThe majority of people in Finland are ignorant about issues concerning the Sami minority. Sami issues are not taught at school to a satisfactory level, according to ECRI. ECRI has criticized Finland for not having ratified the ILO-convention 169 on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples.\n\nThe Somali community in Finland as well as the Finnish Roma face discrimination and racism. Russians in Finland are discriminated against in employment.\n\n"}
{"id": "952466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952466", "title": "Raksha Bandhan", "text": "Raksha Bandhan\n\nRaksha Bandhan, also Rakshabandhan, or Rakhi, is a popular, traditionally Hindu, annual rite, or ceremony, which is central to a festival of the same name, celebrated in parts of South Asia, and among people influenced by South Asian culture around the world. On this day, sisters of all ages tie a talisman, or amulet, called the \"rakhi\", around the wrists of their brothers, symbolically protecting them, receiving a gift in return, and traditionally investing the brothers with a share of the responsibility of their potential care. \n\nRaksha Bandhan is observed on the last day of the Hindu lunar calendar month of Shraavana, which typically falls in August. The expression \"Raksha Bandhan,\" Sanskrit, literally, \"the bond of protection, obligation, or care,\" is now principally applied to this ritual. Until the mid-20th-century, the expression was more commonly applied to a similar ritual, also held on the same day, with precedence in ancient Hindu texts, in which a domestic priest ties amulets, charms, or threads on the wrists of his patrons, or changes their sacred thread, and receives gifts of money; in some places, this is still the case. In contrast, the sister-brother festival, with origins in folk culture, had names which varied with location, with some rendered as Saluno, Silono, and Rakri. A ritual associated with Saluno included the sisters placing shoots of barley behind the ears of their brothers. \n\nOf special significance to married women, Raksha Bandhan is rooted in the practice of territorial or village exogamy, in which a bride marries \"out\" of her natal village or town, and her parents, by custom, do not visit her in her married home. In rural north India, where village exogamy is strongly prevalent, large numbers of married Hindu women travel back to their parents' homes every year for the ceremony. Their brothers, who typically live with the parents or nearby, sometimes travel to their sisters' married home to escort them back. Many younger married women arrive a few weeks earlier at their natal homes and stay until the ceremony. The brothers serve as lifelong intermediaries between their sisters' married and parental homes, as well as potential stewards of their security. \n\nIn urban India, where families are increasingly nuclear, the festival has become more symbolic, but continues to be highly popular. The rituals associated with this festival have spread beyond their traditional regions and have been transformed through technology and migration, the movies, social interaction, and promotion by politicized Hinduism, as well as by the nation state. \n\nAmong women and men who are not blood relatives, there is also a transformed tradition of voluntary kin relations, achieved through the tying of \"rakhi\" amulets, which have cut across caste and class lines, and Hindu and Muslim divisions. In some communities or contexts, other figures, such as a matriarch, or a person in authority, can be included in the ceremony in ritual acknowledgement of their benefaction.\n\nAccording to the Oxford English Dictionary, Third Edition, 2008, the Hindi word, rākhī derives from the Sanskrit rakṣikā, a join: rakṣā protection, amulet ( < rakṣ- to protect + -ikā, diminutive suffix.) \n\nScholars who have written about the ritual, have usually described the traditional region of its observance as north India; however, also included are: central India, western India and Nepal, as well other regions of India, and overseas Hindu communities such as in Fiji. Anthropologist Jack Goody, whose field study was conducted in Nandol, in Gujarat, describes Rakshabandhan as an \"annual ceremony ... of northern and western India.\"\nAnthropologist Michael Jackson, writes, \"While traditional North Indian families do not have a Father's or Mother's Day, or even the equivalent of Valentine's Day, there is a Sister's Day, called Raksha Bandhan, ...\" Religious scholar J. Gordon Melton describes it as \"primarily a North Indian festival.\" Leona M. Anderson and Pamela D. Young describe it as \"one of the most popular festivals of North India.\" Anthropologist David G. Mandelbaum has described it as \"an annual rite observed in northern and western India.\" Other descriptions of primary regions are of development economist Bina Agarwal (\"In Northern India and Nepal this is ritualized in festivals such as raksha-bandhan.\"), scholar and activist Ruth Vanita (\"a festival widely celebrated in north India.\"), anthropologist James D. Faubion (\"In north India this brother-sister relationship is formalized in the ceremony of 'Rakshabandhan.'\"), and social scientist Prem Chowdhry (\"... in the noticeable revival of the Raksha Bandhan festival and the renewed sanctity is has claimed in North India.\").\nSociologist Yogendra Singh has noted the contribution of American anthropologist McKim Marriott, to an understanding of the origins of the \"Raksha Bandhan\" festival. In rural society, according to Marriott, there is steady interplay between two cultural traditions, the elite or \"great,\" tradition based in texts, such as the Vedas in Indian society, and the local or \"little,\" based in folk art and literature. According to Singh, (Marriott) has shown that \"Raksha Bandhan\" festival has its \"origin in the 'little tradition'.\" Anthropologist Onkar Prasad has further suggested that Marriott was the first to consider the limitations within which each village tradition \"operates to retain its essence.\"\n\nIn his village study, Marriott described two concurrently observed traditions on the full moon day of Shravana: a \"little tradition\" festival called \"Saluno,\" and a \"great tradition\" festival, \"Raksha Bandhan\", but which Marriott calls, \"Charm Tying:\" On Saluno day, many husbands arrive at their wives' villages, ready to carry them off again to their villages of marriage. But, before going off with their husbands, the wives as well as their unmarried village sisters express their concern for and devotion to their brothers by placing young shoots of barley, the locally sacred grain, on the heads and ears of their brothers. (The brothers) reciprocate with small coins. On the same day, along with the ceremonies of Saluno, and according to the literary precedent of the Bhavisyottara Purana, ... the ceremonies of Charm Tying (Rakhi Bandhan or Raksha Bandhan) are also held. The Brahman domestic priests of Kishan Garhi go to each patron and tie upon his wrist a charm in the form of a polychrome thread, bearing tassel \"plums.\" Each priest utters a vernacular blessing and is rewarded by his patron with cash, ... The ceremonies of both now exist side by side, as if they were two ends of a process of primary transformation.\"\n\nNorwegian anthropologist, Øyvind Jaer, who did his fieldwork in eastern UP in the 1990s noted that the \"great tradition\" festival was in retreat and the \"little tradition\" one, involving sisters and brothers, now more important.\n\nImportant in the Great Tradition is chapter 137 of the Uttara Parva of the \"Bhavishya Purana\", in which Lord Krishna describes to Yudhishthira the ritual of having a \"raksha\" (protection) tied to his right wrist by the royal priest (the rajpurohit) on the \"purnima\" (full moon day) of the Hindu lunar calendar month of Shravana). In the crucial passage, Lord Krishna says, \"\"Parth\" (applied to any of the three sons of Kunti (also, Pritha), in particular, Yudhishthira): When the sky is covered with clouds, and the earth dark with new, tender, grass, in that very Shravana month's full moon day, at the time of sunrise, according to remembered convention, a Brahmin should take a bath with perfectly pure water. He should also according to his ability, offer libations of water to the gods, to the paternal ancestors, as prescribed by the Vedas for the task required to be accomplished before the study of the Vedas, to the sages, and as directed by the gods carry out and bring to a satisfactory conclusion the \"shradh\" ceremony to honor the deceased. It is commended that a Shudra should also make a charitable offering, and take a bath accompanied by the \"mantras\". That very day, in the early afternoon (between noon and 3 PM) it is commended that a small parcel (bundle or packet) be prepared from a new cotton or silk cloth and adorned with whole grains of rice or barley, small mustard seeds, and red ocher powder, and made exceedingly wondrous, be placed in a suitable dish or receptacle. ... the \"purohit\" should bind this packet on the king's wrist with the words,'I am binding \"raksha\" (protection) to you with the same true words with which I bound \"Mahabali\" King of the Asuras. Always stay firm in resolve.' In \n\nOf special significance to married women, Raksha Bandhan is rooted in the practice of territorial- or village exogamy, in which a bride marries \"out\" of her natal village or town, and her parents, by custom, do not visit her in her married home. Anthropologist Leo Coleman writes: Rakhi and its local performances in Kishan Garhi were part of a festival in which connections between out-marrying sisters and village-resident brothers were affirmed. In the \"traditional\" form of this rite, according to Marriott, sisters exchanged with their brothers to ensure their ability to have recourse—at a crisis, or during childbearing—to their natal village and their relatives there even after leaving for their husband's home. For their part, brothers engaging in these exchanges affirmed the otherwise hard-to-discern moral solidarity of the natal family, even after their sister's marriage. \n\nIn rural north India, where village exogamy is strongly prevalent, large numbers of married Hindu women travel back to their parents' homes every year for the ceremony. Scholar Linda Hess writes: Their brothers, who typically live with the parents or nearby, sometimes travel to their sisters' married home to escort them back. Many younger married women arrive a few weeks earlier at their natal homes and stay until the ceremony. Folklorist Susan Wadley writes: \"In Savan, greenness abounds as the newly planted crops take root in the wet soil. It is a month of joy and gaiety, with swings hanging from tall trees. Girls and women swing high into the sky, singing their joy. The gaiety is all the more marked because women, especially the young ones, are expected to return to their natal homes for an annual visit during Savan. The brothers serve as lifelong intermediaries between their sisters' married- and parental homes, as well as potential stewards of their security.\n\nIn his village study (1955), anthropologist McKim Marriott noted transformations of ritual that had begun to take place: A further, secondary transformation of the festival of Charm Tying is also beginning to be evident in Kishan Garhi, for the thread charms of the priests are now factory-made in more attractive form ... A few sisters in Kishan Garhi have taken to tying these ... charms of priestly type onto their brothers' wrists. The new string charms are also more convenient for mailing in letters to distant, city-dwelling brothers whom sisters cannot visit on the auspicious day. Beals reports, furthermore, that brothers in the electrified village of Namhalli near Bangalore tuned in to All India Radio in order to receive a time signal at the astrologically exact moment, and then tied such charms to their own wrists, with an accompaniment of broadcast Sanskrit mantras.\"\n\nIn urban India, where families are increasingly nuclear, and marriages not always traditional, the festival has become more symbolic, but continues to be highly popular. The rituals associated with these rites, however, have spread beyond their traditional regions and have been transformed through technology and migration, According to anthropologist, Leo Coleman: In modern rakhi, technologically mediated and performed with manufactured charms, migrating men are the medium by which the village women interact, vertically, with the cosmopolitan center—the site of radio broadcasts, and the source of technological goods and national solidarity. \n\nHindi movies have played a salient role. According to author Vaijayanti Pandit, Raksha Bandhan traditionally celebrated in North India has acquired greater importance due to Hindi films. Lightweight and decorative rakhis, which are easy to post, are needed in large quantities by the market to cater to brothers and sisters living in different parts of the country or abroad.\" More social interaction among India's population has played a role in the increased celebration of this festival. According to author Renuka Khandekar: But since independence and the gradual opening up of Indian society, Raksha Bandhan as celebrated in North India has won the affection of many South Indian families. For this festival has the peculiar charm of renewing sibling bonds.\" \n\nThe festival has also been promoted by Hindu political organizations. According to authors P. M. Joshy and K. M. Seethi. The RSS employs a cultural strategy to mobilise people through festivals. It observes six major festivals in a year. ... Till 20 years back, festivals like Raksha Bandhan' were unknown to South Indians. Through shakha's intense campaign, now they have become popular in the southern India. In colleges and schools tying `Rakhi'—the thread that is used in the 'Raksha Bandhan'—has become a fashion and this has been popularised by the RSS and ABVP cadres. \n\nSimilarly, according to author Christophe Jaffrelot, This ceremony occurs in a cycle of six annual festivals which often coincides with those observed in Hindu society, and which Hedgewar inscribed in the ritual calendar of his movement: Varsha Pratipada (the Hindu new year), Shivajirajyarohonastava (the coronation of Shivaji), guru dakshina, Raksha Bandhan (a North Indian festival in which sisters tie ribbons round the wrists of their brothers to remind them of their duty as protectors, a ritual which the RSS has re-interpreted in such a way that the leader of the shakha ties a ribbon around the pole of the saffron flag, after which swayamsevaks carry out this ritual for one another as a mark of brotherhood), Finally, the nation state in India has itself promoted this festival. as Leo Coleman states: ... as citizens become participants in the wider \"new traditions\" of the national state. Broadcast mantras become the emblems of a new level of state power and the means of the integration of villagers and city dwellers alike into a new community of citizens. \n\nMore recently, after enactment of more gender-neutral inheritance laws in India, it has been suggested that in some communities the festival has seen a resurgence of celebration, which is serving to indirectly pressure women to abstain from fully claiming their inheritance. According to author Prem Chowdhry, Rural patriarchal forces have been anxiously devising means to stem the progressive fallout of this Act through a variety of means. One way has been to oppose the inheritance rights of a daughter or a sister to those of the brother. Except in cases where there are no brothers, the sisters either sign away their in favour of their brother or sell it to him at a nominal price. This code of conduct is observed knowingly by both the natal and conjugal families. Brother-sister bonds of love have also been greatly encouraged, visible in the noticeable revival of the Raksha Bandhan festival and the renewed sanctity it has claimed in north India.\n\nAmong women and men who are not blood relatives, there is also a transformed tradition of voluntary kin relations, achieved through the tying of \"rakhi\" amulets, which have cut across caste and class lines, and Hindu and Muslim divisions. In some communities or contexts, other figures, such as a matriarch, or a person in authority, can be included in the ceremony in ritual acknowledgement of their benefaction. According to author Prem Chowdhry, \"The same symbolic protection is also requested from the high caste men by the low caste women in a work relationship situation. The ritual thread is offered, though not tied and higher caste men customarily give some money in return.\"\n\nWhile Raksha Bandhan is celebrated in various parts of South Asia, different regions mark the day in different ways.\n\nIn the state of West Bengal and Odisha, this day is also called Jhulan Purnima. Prayers and puja of Lord Krishna and Radha are performed there. Sisters tie rakhi to brothers and wish immortality. Political parties, offices, friends, schools to colleges, street to palace celebrate this day with a new hope for a good relationship.\n\nIn Maharashtra, the festival of Raksha Bandhan is celebrated along with \"Narali Poornima\" (coconut day festival). Kolis are the fishermen community of the coastal state. The fishermen offer prayers to Lord Varuna, the Hindu god of Sea, to invoke his blessings. As part of the rituals, coconuts were thrown into the sea as offerings to Lord Varuna. The girls and women tie \"rakhi\" on their brother's wrist, as elsewhere.\n\nIn the regions of North India, mostly Jammu, it is a common practice to fly kites on the nearby occasions of Janamashtami and Raksha Bandhan. It's not unusual to see the sky filled with kites of all shapes and sizes, on and around these two dates. The locals buy kilometres of strong kite string, commonly called as \"gattu door\" in the local language, along with a multitude of kites.\n\nIn Haryana, in addition to celebrating Raksha Bandhan, people observe the festival of Salono. Salono is celebrated by priests solemnly tying amulets against evil on people's wrists. As elsewhere, sisters tie threads on brothers with prayers for their well being, and the brothers give her gifts promising to safeguard her.\n\nIn Nepal, Raksha Bandhan is referred to as Janai Purnima or Rishitarpani, and involves a sacred thread ceremony. It is observed by both Hindus and Buddhists of Nepal. The Hindu men change the thread they wear around their chests (\"janai\"), while in some parts of Nepal girls and women tie \"rakhi\" on their brother's wrists. The Raksha Bandhan-like brother sister festival is observed by other Hindus of Nepal during one of the days of the Tihar (or Diwali) festival.\n\nThe festival is observed by the Shaiva Hindus, and is popularly known in Newar community as \"Gunhu Punhi\".\n\nThe religious myths claimed \"Raksha Bandhan\" are disputed, and the historical stories associated with it considered apocryphal by some historians.\n\nGanesha had two sons, Shubha and Labha. The two boys become frustrated that they have no sister to celebrate Raksha Bandhan with. They ask their father Ganesha for a sister, but to no avail. Finally, saint Narada appears who persuades Ganesha that a daughter will enrich him as well as his sons. Ganesha agreed, and created a daughter named Santoshi Maa by divine flames that emerged from Ganesh's wives, \"Riddhi\" (Amazing) and \"Siddhi\" (Perfection). Thereafter, Shubha Labha (literally \"Holy Profit\") had a sister named Santoshi Maa (literally \"Goddess of Satisfaction\"), to tie Rakhi over Raksha Bandhan. According to author Robert Brown ... in Varanasi the paired figures were usually called Rddhi and Siddhi, Ganeea's relationship to them was often vague. He was their \"malik\", their owner; they were more often \"dasis\" than \"patnis\" (wives). Yet Ganesha was married to them, albeit within a marriage different from other divine matches in the lack of a clear familial context. Such a context has recently emerged in the popular film \"Jai Santoshi Ma\". The film builds upon a text, also of recent vintage, in which Ganesha has a daughter, the neophyte goddess of satisfaction, Santoshi Ma. In the film, the role of Gane§a as family man is developed significantly. Santoshi Ma's genesis occurs on Rasa bandan. Ganesha's sister is visiting for the tying of the rakhi. He calls her \"bahenmansa\" — his \"mind-born\" sister. Ganesha's wives, Rddhi and Siddhi, are also present, with their sons Subha and Labha. The boys are jealous, as they, unlike their father, have no sister with whom to tie the rakhi. They and the other women plead with their father, but to no avail; but then Narada appears and convinces Ganesha that the creation of an illustrious daughter will reflect much credit back onto himself. Ganesha assents and from Rddhi and Siddhi emerges a flame that engenders Santoshi Ma.\n\nFilm historian Arthur Pomeroy describes the manufacture of a modern and widespread Indian legend in the 1939 movie Sikandar: \n\nIn \"Sikandar\" a very daring Roxane follows Alexander incognito to India and manages to gain admission to King Porus (in the Indian version: Puru), a conversation with a young, friendly Indian village woman named Surmaniya, Roxane learns about the Indian feast of Rakhi which is being celebrated at that very moment with the purpose of strengthening the bond between sister and brother (0:25-0:30). On this occasion, sisters tie a ribbon (i.e. rakhi) to their brothers' arms to symbolize their close relationships, and brothers offer presents and assistance in return. Besides, Roxane is also told that the relationship need not be one of consanguinity; every girl can choose a brother. Therefore, she decides to offer the rakhi to King Porus, who accepts the relationship after some hesitation, because he feels the need to apologize to Roxane, Darius's (a.k.a. Dara's) daughter, for not having helped her father when he asked for assistance against Alexander. As a result of their bond, he offers her gifts befitting her rank and promises not to harm Alexander (0:32-35). Later, when Porus comes into hand-to-hand combat with the Greek king, he stands by his promise and spares him (1:31). Interestingly, the rakhi episode with Porus is still to this day very popular in India and is cited as very early historical evidence for the origin of the authentic Hindu festival called Raksha Bandhan. Although examples of that legend can be traced in internet forums, Indian newspapers, a children's book and an educational video, I was not able to find its ancient origin.\n\nAnother controversial historical account is that of Rani Karnavati of Chittor and Mughal Emperor Humayun, which dates to 1535 CE. When Rani Karnavati, the widowed queen of the king of Chittor, realised that she could not defend against the invasion by the Sultan of Gujarat, Bahadur Shah, she sent a rakhi to Emperor Humayun. The Emperor, according to one version of the story, set off with his troops to defend Chittor. He arrived too late, and Bahadur Shah had already captured the Rani's fortress. Alternative accounts from the period, including those by historians in Humayun's Mughal court, do not mention the rakhi episode and some historians have expressed skepticism whether it ever happened. Historian Satish Chandra wrote, ... According to a mid-seventeenth century Rajasthani account, Rani Karnavati, the Rana's mother, sent a bracelet as rakhi to Humayun, who gallantly responded and helped. Since none of the contemporary sources mention this, little credit can be given to this story ... Humayun's own memoirs never mention this, and give different reasons for his war with Sultan Bahadur Shah of Gujarat in 1535.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33795090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33795090", "title": "Religious identity", "text": "Religious identity\n\nReligious Identity is a specific type of identity formation. Particularly, it is the sense of group membership to a religion and the importance of this group membership as it pertains to one's self-concept. Religious identity is not necessarily the same as religiousness or religiosity. Although these three terms share a commonality, religiousness and religiosity refer to both the value of religious group membership as well as participation in religious events (e.g. going to church). Religious identity, on the other hand, refers specifically to religious group membership regardless of religious activity or participation. \n\nSimilar to other forms of identity formation, such as ethnic and cultural identity, the religious context can generally provide a perspective from which to view the world, opportunities to socialize with a spectrum of individuals from different generations, and a set of basic principles to live out. These foundations can come to shape an individual's identity.\n\nDespite the implications that religion has on identity development, the identity formation literature has mainly focused on ethnicity and gender and has largely discounted the role of religion. Nevertheless, an increasing number of studies have begun to include religion as a factor of interest. However, many of these studies use religious identity, religiosity, and religiousness interchangeably or solely focus on religious identity and solely religious participation as separate constructs.\n\nOf these types of research studies, researchers have examined the various factors that affect the strength of one's religious identity over time. Factors that have been found to affect levels of religious identity include gender, ethnicity, and generational status.\n\n'Identity' is one of the most used terms in the social sciences and has different senses in different research paradigms. In addition to psychological studies, sociologists and anthropologists also apply the term 'religious identity' and examine its related processes in given social contexts. For example, one important study conducted in the United States after the events of September 11 2001, explored the meaning-making among American Muslims and how changes in identity ascription (what people think about another group of people) affected how Muslims sought to represent themselves. Other studies have applied concepts appropriated from race and gender identity theory such as disidentification which undermines essentialist accounts of religious identity - that an individual has a 'fixed' religious identity, independent of pre-existing systems of representation and individuals' positioning within them. \n\nDuring the early 1800s in the field of psychology, research on the topic of religion was considered important and ubiquitous. For example, researchers like G. Stanley Hall and William James conducted studies on such topics as religious conversion. In contrast, the public perspective on religion began to shift two decades later. Instead of religion being seen as an integral part of an individual's life and development and thus a necessary topic to research, scientists and scholars alike viewed religion as a hindrance to the progression of science and as a topic no longer applicable to the current times.\n\nContrary to social scientists' prediction of the general decline of religion over time and increase of secularization leading to a complete abandonment of religious studies, religion did not diminish and was instead acknowledged by researchers as a topic worthwhile to research. Scientists and scholars, like British sociologist John Thompson, realized that despite the neglect of religion in studies, the presence and impact of religion on individuals' lives were undeniable and did not disappear with time. Hence, a body of research on religion began to take root. Particularly, a handful of researchers were interested in examining religious identity during adolescence.\n\nGiven that religious traditions can be intricately interlaced with various aspects of culture, the religious identity literature has consistently yielded ethnic, gender, and generational differences.\n\nAccording to Social Identity Theory, when individuals of ethnic minority backgrounds feel as if their identity is threatened, they may emphasize their other social identities as a means to maintain a positive self-concept. This idea is supported by the various studies that have shown higher levels of religious identity among ethnic minorities, particularly those from Latino and African American backgrounds, compared to European Americans.\n\nGender may also impact one's religious identity. Generally, females are more likely than males to attend religious services and express that religion is an important aspect of their lives. Studies have captured this gender difference through observations of females reporting greater religious attitudes. This was also shown in a four-year longitudinal study on religious involvement for adolescents living in rural settings. Females tended to be more involved in church-related activities than males and were more likely to view themselves as religious individuals.\n\nThere are three categories of generational status: First, Second, and Third. An individual who is considered to be first generation is one who was born outside of the United States and immigrated. Second generation refers to an individual who was born in the United States but whose parent(s) were foreign-born and immigrated. Lastly, third generation refers to an individual and the individual's parents were born in the United States. \n\nFirst and second generation individuals may tend to have particularly higher religious identity levels in comparison to third generation immigrants. In efforts to adjust to the stressful changes associated with the immigration process, finding a community of emotional, social, and financial support, an environment typically provided by a place of worship, may be highly sought after by immigrants. Studies have indeed revealed that adolescents from immigrant families (both first and second generation immigrants) reported higher levels of religious identity compared to adolescents whose parents are not immigrants (third generation).\n\nInstitutional factors\n\nStudies suggest that institutional factors impact on religious identity. For example in a study of Christians, Jews and Muslims in English secondary schools adolescents reported negative representations of their religious traditions in the curriculum and common stereotypes held by their peers. These negative ascriptions were perceived by participants to influence their strategies of representing themselves, including hiding their religious affiliations or attempting to pre-empt criticism or bullying by representing the traditions they identified with in an apologetic conciliatory manner.\n\nBy and large, numerous studies have observed ethnic, gender, and generational differences in religious identity. However, there have not been as many longitudinal studies on the influence of ethnicity, gender, and generational status on individuals' development of religious identity over time. Nevertheless, of the handful of such studies, researchers have focused mainly on adolescence and started to branch out to emerging adulthood.\n\nResearchers have been particularly interested in studying identity during adolescence because it is a developmental period crucial to identity development. During this period, adolescents have opportunities to explore their ethnic, cultural, and religious traditions. However, the freedom and flexibility of their exploration is typically within the constraints of their parents or caregiver.\n\nIt was believed that religious identity and participation would both follow the same trajectory and decrease across time; hence, the studies that examined religiousness, which combines the two constructs. Although religious affiliation, identity, and participation are closely related, longitudinal research on adolescents suggests that these constructs have different trajectories from one another. For example, researchers have found that religious affiliation and identity for adolescents remained fairly stable across the high school years, which contradicts the expected change in religious affiliation from affiliated to unaffiliated and decrease in religious identity.\n\nHowever, the stability of adolescent religious identity parallels that of other social identities such as ethnic identity. Researchers have reasoned that due to adolescents' relatively stable social environment, there is not a strong need to further explore and renegotiate their religious identity. Moreover, religious identity is mainly driven by parents during adolescence. Given that adolescents tend to still live with their parents during high school, there may not be a need to engage in deeper exploration of their religion, which may help explain the observed stable religious identity. \n\nWhereas religious affiliation and identity remain stable, religious participation tends to decrease. Adolescents may exercise their increased autonomy and choose not to attend religious events. Particularly, adolescents may find other activities (e.g. studying, clubs, and sports) vying for their time and resources and choose to prioritize those activities over religious events. The significant decline in religious participation at the end of high school may be a precursor to further decline during emerging adulthood.\n\nAdolescence has been traditionally associated with a time of identity exploration. However, that exploration process is not complete by the end of adolescence. Rather, emerging adulthood, the years between late teens and late twenties, extends the identity formation process from adolescence. \n\nThis transitional period is marked by constant changes in romantic love, work, and worldviews and is generally a time of \"semiautonomy.\" With this increased sense of autonomy, emerging adults may choose to further exert their independence by moving away from home and/or by attending college. Through whichever ways that emerging adults choose to exercise their autonomy, they are likely to find themselves in new, diverse environments teeming with a spectrum of vast worldviews.\n\nDespite the necessity for studies on religious identity, there has been limited work on the role of religion in identity formation in emerging adults. Compared to the research in adolescence, there is much less work on the development of religious identity and religious participation across the emerging adulthood years. The combination of immense and frequent changes, increased autonomy, and diverse environments during this period has major ramifications for the development of emerging adults' religious affiliation, religious identity, and religious participation. \n\nReligion was believed to have little impact on emerging adults' identity, particularly for those who attend college However, recent research suggests otherwise. According to a study, while 14 percent of college students reported a decrease in religious beliefs throughout college, 48 percent reported stable religious beliefs, and 38 percent reported an increase.\n\nMoreover, another study found that contrary to the expectations of decreased religious identity and religious participation during emerging adulthood, religious identity did not decrease, but religious participation did decline as predicted. Researchers explained that emerging adults are more likely to decrease their involvement in religious activities than they are to completely disaffiliate from their religion or express less importance of religion in their lives.\n\nAdditionally, in a study that examined the ways in which religion influenced emerging adults, researchers found that emerging adults' standards of adulthood were dependent upon the religious affiliation of the institution they attended. For example, compared to emerging adults who attended Catholic or public universities, emerging adults who attended Mormon universities rated interdependence, norm compliance, biological transitions, and family capacities as extremely important criteria for adulthood. \n\nIn summary, although not all studies on this topic are in agreement, religious identity generally tends to remain stable during emerging adulthood whereas religious participation decreases over time.\n\n"}
{"id": "23966679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23966679", "title": "Summer Wars", "text": "Summer Wars\n\nAfter producing \"The Girl Who Leapt Through Time\", Madhouse was asked to produce something new. Hosoda and writer Satoko Okudera, created a story about a social network and a stranger's connection with strange family. The real-life city of Ueda, was chosen as the setting for \"Summer Wars\", as part of the territory was once governed by the Sanada clan and was close to Hosoda's birthplace in Toyama. Hosoda used the clan as the basis for the Jinnouchi family after visiting his then-fiancé's home in Ueda.\n\nProduction of \"Summer Wars\" commenced in 2006. Art director Youji Takeshige incorporated Japanese houses into his background designs. Hosoda also insisted that 80 family members were to be included as main characters. The project was first announced at the 2008 Tokyo International Anime Fair and the first trailer of the film was released in April 2009. Audience interest was fueled primarily through word of mouth and Internet publicity. A manga adaptation of the film was written by Iqura Sugimoto and began its serialization in July 2009.\n\n\"Summer Wars\" premiered in Japan on August 1, 2009. It grossed over US$1 million in its opening weekend in 127 theaters and ranked No. 7 at the box office. The film was well received by critics and the general audience and was financially successful, earning $18 million worldwide. It won several awards such as the 2010 Japan Academy Prize for Animation of the Year, the 2010 Japan Media Arts Festival's Animation Division Grand Prize, the Anaheim International Film Festival's Audience Award for Best Animated Feature and was nominated for the 2009 Golden Leopard award at the Locarno International Film Festival.\n\nKenji Koiso is a young student at Kuonji High School with a gift for mathematics and a part-time moderator in the massive computer-simulated virtual reality world OZ along with his friend Takashi Sakuma.\n\nOne day, Kenji is invited by fellow Kuonji student Natsuki Shinohara to participate in her great-grandmother Sakae Jinnouchi's 90th birthday. After traveling to Sakae's estate in Ueda, Natsuki introduces Kenji as her fiancé to Sakae, surprising them both. Kenji meets several of Natsuki's relatives and discovers that the Jinnouchis are descendants of a samurai (vassal of the Takeda clan) who challenged the Tokugawa clan in 1615. He also meets Wabisuke Jinnouchi, Natsuki's half-great-uncle and a computer expert who has been living in the United States since stealing the family fortune 10 years ago.\n\nKenji receives an e-mail with a mathematical code and cracks it. Love Machine, an artificial intelligence written by Wabisuke, uses Kenji's account and avatar to hack the infrastructure, causing widespread damage. Kenji, Sakuma, and Natsuki's cousin Kazuma Ikezawa confront Love Machine. Love Machine defeats Kazuma's avatar King Kazma and continues to consume accounts in the OZ mainframe, creating catastrophic traffic congestion and disabling electrical devices. Two of Sakae's relatives, Rika and Shota Jinnouchi, discover Kenji's involvement. Shota arrests Kenji, but the congestion causes Natsuki to return them to the estate.\n\nSakae calls associates in important positions in Japanese society and relatives who work in emergency services, encouraging them to work their hardest to reduce chaos and damage, comparing the situation to war. Kenji is able to return control of the mainframe to the moderators and engineers. Wabisuke explains that he sold the program to the United States Armed Forces for a test run. After an argument with Sakae, Wabisuke leaves the estate. Sakae later encourages Kenji to take care of Natsuki during a Koi-Koi match.\n\nThe next morning, Sakae is discovered dead by Kenji and the Jinnouchis. Her youngest son Mansaku explains that she had angina, and that Love Machine had deactivated her heart monitor. Kenji, Sakuma, and most of the Jinnouchis initiate a plan to defeat Love Machine with a supercomputer using ice blocks as a coolant, while Natsuki and the others prepare a funeral for Sakae.\n\nKenji, along with Sakuma and the others, capture Love Machine, but Shota carries the ice blocks to Sakae's body, causing the supercomputer to overheat. Love Machine consumes King Kazma and redirects the \"Arawashi\" Asteroid Probe onto a collision course with a nuclear power plant. Meanwhile, Natsuki discovers a will left by Sakae and reunites with Kenji and the rest of the group. Natsuki has Wabisuke return home before the family reads Sakae's will, asking them to bring Wabisuke back to their lives. Realizing that Love Machine sees everything as a game, Kenji has the Jinnouchis confront Love Machine to play Koi-Koi in OZ's casino world, wagering their accounts in a desperate attempt to stop Love Machine. Natsuki wins several rounds, but gets distracted and nearly loses her \"winnings\".\n\nHowever, OZ users worldwide enter their own accounts into the wager on Natsuki's side, which also prompts the guardian programs of OZ—the blue and red whales known as John and Yoko—to upgrade Natsuki's account. Natsuki wagers the 150 million avatars given to her in a single hand and critically damages Love Machine, prompting the artificial intelligence to redirect the \"Arawashi\" towards Sakae's estate. Kenji attempts to break into the probe's GPS, while Wabisuke disables Love Machine's defenses. After being revived and assisted by several of the Jinnouchi family's avatars, King Kazma destroys Love Machine. Kenji activates the GPS code to redirect the \"Arawashi\" away from the estate, destroying the estate's entrance and causing a geyser to erupt. In the aftermath, the Jinnouchi family, celebrating their victory as well as Sakae's birthday, has Natsuki kiss Kenji after they confess their love to each other.\n\nAfter the critical and commercial success of \"The Girl Who Leapt Through Time\", Madhouse was offered to produce another film. Whereas Madhouse based the previous film on a novel, the studio was given the chance to create the next film. Director Mamoru Hosoda selected a story for both people with family and those without having a family. Production of \"Summer Wars\" commenced in 2006.\nMost of the film is set in the real-life city of Ueda. Ueda was chosen as the primary setting of the film because it is located in a territory formerly governed by the prominent Sanada clan, upon which the Jinnouchi family is based. Ueda is also close to Hosoda's birthplace in Toyama. Hosoda's inspiration for the name of the social network OZ came from a large supermarket that he once visited while still working for Toei Animation at the time. Although noting similarities between OZ and \"Second Life\", Hosoda also cited the Japanese social networking website mixi as a primary influence because of his experiences. For the color and design of OZ, he cited Nintendo games as inspiration. The design aesthetic was compared by some reviewers to the appearance of OZ. Hosoda said that he admires the artwork of Takashi Murakami, but designed the social network as a \"clean, uncluttered look.\" During production, Hosoda visited his then-fiancé's house in Ueda, and experienced the history of her family's life. Hosoda cited his influence of using a family as the basis of the film from his marriage and from attending several film festivals.\n\nIn addition to Hosoda, the team included writer Satoko Okudera and character designer Yoshiyuki Sadamoto, who previously worked with Hosoda on \"The Girl Who Leapt Through Time\". Hiroyuki Aoyama served as an animation director, while action animation direction was handled by Tatsuzo Nishida. During production, Sadamoto based Wabisuke's design on those of actor Yūsaku Matsuda. Aoyama was responsible for supervising the animation of the real world scenes, while Nishida supervised the animation for the digital world, using both traditional animation and computer animation techniques. Digital animation studio Digital Frontier was responsible for creating the visuals of OZ and its avatars. Youji Takeshige oversaw the art direction for \"Summer Wars\". While visiting Ueda, Hosoda thought that Takeshige, who has previously worked with Studio Ghibli, should draw traditional Japanese houses for the film. The film also features the Japanese spacecraft Hayabusa, whose control center is located in the nearby city of Saku. Hosoda included the spacecraft to support Japan's contribution towards space exploration.\n\nThe film was announced at the 2008 Tokyo International Anime Fair. At the 2009 Otakon convention Madhouse president Masao Maruyama said that Hosoda insisted on including 80 family members as its main characters. Maruyama then quipped that he asked Hosoda to promise only two main characters and two years of production for his next film. \"Summer Wars\" was one film in Madhouse's larger theatrical film release strategy, to release one new film each season for the next year. The release of \"Summer Wars\" was followed by \"Mai Mai Miracle\" and \"Yona Yona Penguin\" in 2009 with \"Redline\" released during the first half of 2010.\n\nAkihiko Matsumoto composed the score for \"Summer Wars\", with Randy Miller providing the additional music. The soundtrack of the film, titled , was released by VAP on July 9, 2009. The release consists of 18 tracks. It remained on the Oricon music charts for four weeks and peaked at No. 112.\n\nThe film's theme song, titled , was written and performed by Tatsuro Yamashita. It was released by Warner Music Japan as a maxi single on August 19, 2009. The single included two other songs by Yamashita that are unrelated to the film. The first two songs have corresponding karaoke versions, and the third song is recorded from a live performance. The single peaked at 8th place on the Oricon charts.\n\nA high level of anticipation surrounded \"Summer Wars\" before its release, due to the critical and popular success of \"The Girl Who Leapt Through Time\". Kadokawa Shoten promoted the film online through their official YouTube channel, aiming at international as well as domestic fans. On April 8, 2009, a one-minute high-definition (HD) trailer was released followed by a longer trailer on June 16. On July 29, the Japanese website of Yahoo! Movies streamed the first five minutes of the film and Kadokawa offered the footage on their YouTube channel several days later to allow for international viewing. It also offered two of the film's 15-second television adverts online. Before its release Masao Maruyama believed that \"the film should be pretty popular, since the pre-sales for the tickets are very high\".\n\nIqura Sugimoto's manga adaptation of the film was featured in the July 2009 debut issue of Kadokawa's manga magazine \"Young Ace\". The first compilation volume of Sugimoto's work was released in Japan on August 10 and debuted in 23rd place on the Oricon comic ranking, selling 51,645 copies. The second volume was released on February 4, 2010, and debuted in 12th place, selling 53,333 copies. Sugimoto's manga was licensed into English by Vertical in January 2013, and the two volumes were released on October 22, 2013 and December 17, 2013. An additional manga side story was featured in the July 2009 issue of \"Comp Ace\" magazine.\n\n\"Summer Wars\" premiered in Japan on August 1, 2009. The film was distributed in South Korea by CJ Entertainment where it premiered on August 12. Cathay Organisation released \"Summer Wars\" in Singapore on February 25, 2010. Mighty Media released the film in Taiwan on June 4, 2010. The film was released by Eurozoom in France on June 9, 2010.\n\n\"Summer Wars\" had its North American premiere on February 26, 2010, as the opening night event of the annual New York International Children's Film Festival with director Mamoru Hosoda in attendance. Hosoda answered audience questions following the film's screening through an interpreter. Hosoda and a producer subsequently appeared at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Comparative Media Studies Program on March 1, 2010, where they offered a public screening free of charge and answered questions. The film was also screened at the IndieLisboa Film Festival. The debut screening in Australia was on June 14, 2010, as part of the Sydney Film Festival. It also screened at Melbourne International Film Festival on August 8, 2010. The Leeds International Film Festival showed the film on November 20, 2009, and the English dubbed version of the film premiered at the New York International Children's Film Festival on November 20, 2010. At Otakon 2010 Funimation Entertainment announced that a limited release of the film would begin in theaters on December 3, 2010, at the Gene Siskel Film Center.\n\n\"Summer Wars\" aired on Adult Swim's Toonami block on December 14, 2013, with a rating of TV-14-LV. The film was watched by 1.36 million viewers.\nThe movie aired again on Toonami on December 6, 2014, after the premiere of the ninth episode of \"Hellsing Ultimate\".\n\nReview aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 77% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 22 reviews with an average rating of 7/10. At Metacritic the film earned a \"generally favorable\" level rating of 63/100 based on 12 reviews by mainstream critics.\n\nMark Schilling of \"The Japan Times\" rated the film 5 out of 5 stars and observed that \"Summer Wars\" \"may contain familiar elements, beginning with its bashful, moonstruck young hero, but it combines them in ways fresh, contemporary and dazzlingly imaginative\". He also said that the film provides a social commentary on the differences between an \"analog world\" and a \"realm of digital devices\". Schilling titled his article \"The future king of Japanese animation may be with us; Hosoda steps out of Miyazaki's shadow with dazzling new film\". He praised Sadamoto, Aoyama and Nishida for producing \"scenes of animated spectacle that, in their dazzling fluency of motion and untethered brilliance of invention, makes the usual SF/fantasy anime look childish and dull\". Twitch Film published a review by Guillem Rosset who also referenced Miyazaki noting that following \"The Girl Who Leapt Through Time\" \"cries went out immediately hailing him [Hosoda] as the heir apparent\". He claimed that with \"Summer Wars\", \"Hosoda is the new king, the best story teller working within the animated medium in Japan and – quite possibly – the world.\" Rosset praised the film itself as \"richly detailed and beautifully written...gorgeous to look at.\" and \"blessed with an extensive cast of stunningly detailed and authentic characters.\" He concluded by saying \"Hosoda has perfectly balanced the need to entertain via the visuals with the rich and satisfying character work that separates him from the massive pack of quality technicians to establish himself as truly a master story teller.\" He also noted that \"The wonderful cast of characters is one of the film's greatest strengths\" while also highlighting that, of the virtual world of OZ, \"Here the creative minds of Madhouse can let their imagination run wild.\" With regards to the technical aspects, Rosset called the film \"a top class audiovisual show.\" He concluded by writing \"Mamoru Hosada deserves a place as one of the top contemporary Japanese animators. And it's good to know that once the time comes for Miyazaki to retire (not too soon I hope!) there's people capable of following his steps.\" The Korean newspaper \"Herald Business\" saw the film's fantasy theme and gorgeous animation as a differentiator from works produced by Hollywood studios.\n\nPatrick W. Galbraith of Otaku2.com compared the design of OZ to Takashi Murakami's artwork, specifically \"the flatness, or slick, polished surfaces\" and then contrasted them with the sequences in Nagano noting, \"it has a warm and lived in feel to it, aided by a scrupulous attention to detail.\" Of the story and characters Galbraith wrote that \"scenes such as the large family coming together and talking over dinner are heartwarming and hilarious.\" and compared the movie to \"a moving picture book, a family photo album turned back a few decades.\" He also noted the audience response, reporting sold-out screenings two nights in a row, and highlighting handwritten notes left at the theater by \"hoardes of fans who on the spot decided to move to Nagano\" In conclusion, Galbraith wrote \"there is an innocence and purity to this work that really reminds [him] of Miyazaki Hayao and Studio Ghibli back in the day, and the stellar backgrounds invoke Shinkai Makoto.\" Justin Sevakis of Anime News Network gave the film an 'A' rating and wrote that \"decades from now, \"Summer Wars\" will be seen as the official arrival of [director] Mamoru Hosoda into the realm of historically important anime directors.\" He called the film \"a near-perfect blend of social satire and science fiction, at once timely and timeless, sardonic and optimistic.\" and noted that the film is \"practically overflowing with sharp social insight in a way we have not seen from anime in years.\" Sevakis praised Yoshiyuki Sadamoto's character designs and highlighted the visuals as \"sharp and consistently great\". In summing the film up he called \"Summer Wars\" \"Incredibly entertaining, and intriguingly intelligent. Accessible and fast-paced. Pretty much perfect.\" Similarities have been commented on between the film and a previous work of Hosoda, \"\". \"Neo\" magazine has stated that \"Our War Game\" is \"plainly a prototype\" of Summer Wars.\n\nRachel Saltz of \"The New York Times\" also gave a positive review of the film. Saltz praised Mamoru Hosoda's direction, and says it \"matches the clean, classically composed images of his [Hosoda's] outer story.\" She further praised the visuals and themes, comparing it to those of director Yasujirō Ozu. In his review for \"Variety\" critic Peter Debruge stated that Hosoda's direction \"appeals to the hard-to-please teen crowd by taking mind-bending ideas and planting them within a relatable contempo context.\" He also praised the CG animation in the OZ sequences. Peter Hartlaub of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" praised Hosoda's style and said that it \"adds enough dimensions to his characters and kinetic battles that the serene real world seems like a dream state.\" He also likened Hosoda's style to that of Hayao Miyazaki and Nintendo. Hartlaub complained that Kenji's character is \"a bit too over-caffeinated in the first part\" and concluded that the film is \"the kind of fun and quirky film that you don't see very often in art houses this time of year.\" Ty Burr of \"The Boston Globe\" gave the film 3 out of 4 stars. He stated that \"Summer Wars is most appealing in its hushed moments\" and also praised Satoko Okudera's writing, stating that it \"stakes a claim for the non-virtual world of history and of family ties that stretch back to Japan’s medieval era.\" He also praised the OZ animation sequences as \"visually ravishing explorations of white-on-white cyberspace, but the hectic gaming action sequences feel curiously passé.\" Burr notes that in the film, \"it's what's old that's made to seem refreshingly new.\" In his review for the \"New York Post\" V.A. Musetto gave the film 2 out of 4 stars and called the film \"great despite its structural problems\". Musetto also complained about the storyline, stating that the \"sci-fi elements seem silly rather than suspenseful.\" Nicolas Rapold of \"The Village Voice\" also praised the film's visuals, and said that \"it’s hard to appreciate things like the character detail amid the insufferably squealy voicing and arbitrary suspense.\"\n\nKevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" praised the film's visuals, stating that \"Summer Wars is awesome in its detailed depiction of Oz, which floats in space with an array of satellites, and earthly cityscapes visited by calamities.\" Thomas also said the film is \"also a superb example of Japanese anime, balancing science fiction fantasy with a paean to the timeless value of family life.\" and called it \"a sophisticated yet poignant family entertainment with an appeal beyond Japanese animation buffs.\" Stephanie Merry of \"The Washington Post\" gave the film 2 out of 4 stars. Merry criticized the film's plot, stating that it \"ventures into territory both melodramatic and corny.\" Merry also said that the relationship between Natsuki and Kenji \"unfolds as blandly as a Debra Messing rom-com.\" Frank Scheck of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" stated that the \"increasingly convoluted narrative may be too difficult to follow for younger viewers,\" but said that the film's \"thematic ambition and dazzling visual style ultimately make it one of the more rewarding anime efforts to reach these [American] shores.\"\n\nIn Japan, \"Summer Wars\" ranked 7th in the box office, grossing an equivalent US$1,338,772 on 127 screens during its opening weekend, and ending its run with a total gross of $17,425,019. In South Korea, the film debuted in 8th place and earned an equivalent of US$369,156 on 118 screens with a total gross of $783,850. In Singapore, the film opened in 17th place and earned an equivalent of US$14,660 on 3 screens, and later concluded its run with a total gross $29,785. As of June 2010, the film went on to gross $18,353,560 worldwide. During the film's limited release in the United States, it grossed $1,412 and opened 76th at the box office in its opening weekend, later concluding its run with a total gross of $80,678.\n\n\"Summer Wars\" was released in Japan on DVD and Blu-ray on March 3, 2010. The DVD version contains a 16-page booklet, OZ stickers, previews, interviews with the film's cast (Ryūnosuke Kamiki, Nanami Sakuraba, Sumiko Fuji, Mitsuki Tanimura and Ayumu Saitō) and an interview with director Mamoru Hosoda, while first press limited edition of the Blu-ray also included the same features, but also added hanafuda cards, an art book, and a film bookmark, and a making-of documentary. These releases were undertaken by Vap. In its first week of release the film became the top selling anime Blu-ray in Japan, with an estimated 54,000 copies sold and surpassed the previous record holder \"\". As of 2010, the film is the second highest Japanese Blu-ray debut overall, following \"Michael Jackson's This Is It\". Based on pre-orders \"Summer Wars\" was expected to be eclipsed in sales by \"\" on its release in May. \"Summer Wars\" also topped the Oricon Animation DVD charts with 55,375 copies sold in its first week. The Japanese Blu-ray release of \"Summer Wars\" was nominated for a Digital Entertainment Group of Japan (DEG Japan) Award for Best Interactivity.\nIn Europe the DVD and Blu-ray was released on November 26, 2010, by Kazé. British distributor Manga Entertainment announced in January 2010 they had licensed \"Summer Wars\" for the United Kingdom, and was released in March 2011. In North America, Funimation released \"Summer Wars\" on DVD and Blu-ray on February 15, 2011. The North American DVD and Blu-ray releases included previews, and the interviews with Hosoda, Kamiki, Sakuraba, Fuji, Tanimura and Saitō. The first press copies included art cards. To get out enough copies to meet demand some did not ship with the OZ O-card (cardboard slip-cover), as it required specialty printing that takes longer to produce than the rest of the product. Funimation offered to send out the O-Card to customers who did not receive one as soon as they are available if they fill out a request form on their official website.\n\n\"Summer Wars\" was the first Japanese animated film to be included as a competitor at the Locarno International Film Festival awards in Switzerland, where it was nominated for the 2009 Golden Leopard award. The film made its international premiere at the festival's celebration of manga, paying tribute to its impact on the animation industry. Although the film did not win the award the Swiss newspaper \"Tribune de Genève\" said it was, \"by far, the best film we could find\" in the competition and noted that the film would have been the logical winner given the festival's theme. The film was featured in the Sitges Film Festival in the category, where it won the Gertie Award for Best Animated Feature Film. \"Summer Wars\" received an award for new media from Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry on October 24, 2009, at the Digital Content Association of Japan's annual convention. \"Summer Wars\" was also nominated for Best Animated Feature Film at the Asia Pacific Screen Awards, although it did not win. The film was awarded the Animation Division Grand Prize at the 13th Japan Media Arts Festival which Hosoda's \"The Girl Who Leapt Through Time\" won in 2006. \"Summer Wars\" won an Award of Excellence in Animation along with four other films at the 33rd Japan Academy Prizes. The Award of Excellence is in effect a nomination for the Animation of the Year Prize, which it won in the final ceremony on March 5, 2010. The film was shown at the 60th Berlin International Film Festival in February as part of the \"Generation 14plus\" program. \"Summer Wars\" won the Audience Award for Best Animation Feature at the Anaheim International Film Festival. Funimation, along with GKIDS, submitted the film for Best Animated Feature for the 83rd Academy Awards. The film was the 14th submission for the category. \"Summer Wars\" won the Best Animation Film Award at the 70th Mainichi Film Awards. Hosoda received an Annie Award nomination as Best Director, becoming the third Japanese individual, besides Hayao Miyazaki and Ghibli composer Joe Hisaishi, to be nominated in an individual Annie category since 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41572236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41572236", "title": "Surik (sword)", "text": "Surik (sword)\n\nThe surik is a traditional sword of the island of Timor. The first coat of arms of East Timor depicts crossed suriks.\n\nThe surik has a single edge blade. The width of the blade narrows from the base down to the tip. Most of the handle is made from horn, and is decorated with tassels to look tough. Goat's hair or horse's hair is attached to the handle. Carving an eye at the center of the handle is meant to strengthen its supernatural power. The sheath of this sword is made of wood.\n\nA surik sword used along with a long curved shield is called \"surik samara\".\n\nFor the Belu people of Nusa Tenggara, the surik is considered as a sacred sword. Its supposed supernatural abilities depend on the person who wield the sword; it is believed by the people that no commoner can touch the surik, or the else the sword would turn against that person. Because of that, the community will take counsel to determine who should wield the surik before going to war.\n\nThe surik is also used in traditional dance in Timor called, \"Tari Surik Laleok\", which is meant to portray the local warrior's customs. suriks were also worn by the Meos, the foremost fighters, and usually also the most successful head-hunters of the village.\n\nIn cases where a dispute is to be settled between two parties in places like Maubara and Ermera, East Timor are known as \"nahe no lulun biti\" (to open and close the mat) or \"tula mesa leten\" (to put on the table). Once it is decided which party are at fault, a form of compensation is made by a payment of money or valuable objects; and the surik in this case is also accepted.\n\nSurik also refers to another sword used by the Batak people of North Sumatra, as well in other provinces such as West Sumatra and Jambi in Indonesia.\n\n"}
{"id": "11011716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11011716", "title": "Terryl Givens", "text": "Terryl Givens\n\nTerryl Lynn Givens is a professor of literature and religion at the University of Richmond, where he holds the James A. Bostwick Chair in English.\n\nThe New York Times referred to his work as \"polemical\" and \"provocative\" whereas Harper's praised him for being \"fair-minded and unbiased.\" Givens is a practicing Mormon who served as bishop in a local congregation for some years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17641573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17641573", "title": "The Amazing Bud Powell", "text": "The Amazing Bud Powell\n\nThe Amazing Bud Powell, also called The Amazing Bud Powell, Vol. 1, is an album by jazz pianist Bud Powell, first released on Blue Note in April 1952, as a 10\" vinyl. It is part of a loosely connected series with the 1954 companion \"The Amazing Bud Powell, Vol. 2\" and the 1957 \"Bud! The Amazing Bud Powell (Vol. 3)\", all released on Blue Note. The album details two recording sessions. In the first, recorded on August 9, 1949, Powell performed in quintet with Fats Navarro, Sonny Rollins, Tommy Potter and Roy Haynes, and in trio with Potter and Haynes. In the second, on May 1, 1951, Powell performed in trio with Curley Russell and Max Roach, and solo.\n\nThe album is critically prized among Powell's releases. Among the more discussed of the album's tracks is the pianist's composition \"Un Poco Loco\" (\"A Little Crazy\"), which has been singled out by critics and cultural historians for its musical and cultural significance.\n\nThe album was remastered and re-issued on CD in 1989 in chronological order with additional, alternate takes. This version is also available along with Powell's 1947 Roost session on the first disc of \"The Complete Blue Note and Roost Recordings\", a 4 disc box set. The album was remastered again in 2001 by Rudy Van Gelder and re-issued as part of Blue Note's The RVG Edition series, with further expansion and reorganization.\n\nThe album is rated highly within Powell's musical library, described by \"All About Jazz\" as \"among the pianist's most important recordings\" and by \"The Complete Idiot's Guide to Jazz\" (in conjunction with volume two) as \"a great introduction to this awesome pianist\". Jazz critic Scott Yanow characterized it in his book \"Jazz on Record\" as \"full of essential music\".\n\nIn \"Bebop: The Best Musicians and Recordings\", Yanow identifies among the highlights of the album \"Bouncing with Bud\", \"52nd Street Theme\" and \"Dance of the Infidels,\" performed by the \"very exciting quintet\" of 1949, and also the 1951 trio's \"three stunning versions of 'Un Poco Loco'\". Barry Kernfeld in \"The Blackwell Guide to Recorded Jazz\" notes with regards to \"Un Poco Loco\" that \"the three takes [of the song]...enable us to hear the evolution of a masterpiece\", a label with which a critic at \"The New York Times\" concurred.\nWhile the song \"Un Poco Loco\" has been identified as musically outstanding, it has also been discussed as culturally significant. According to \"Race Music: Black Cultures from Bebop to Hip-Hop\", although Afro-Cuban jazz had been introduced in the 1940s by such artists as Dizzy Gillespie and Machito, \"Un Poco Loco\" is a significant marker in the establishment of this musical genre, as it revealed \"the Afro-Cuban turn settling into bebop's acceptable field of rhetorical conventions\". More than Afro-Cuban, the authors of that book detect what they describe as a \"Pan-African\" musical influence in the composition's repetition, harmony and cyclic solo that, while not as obviously Afro-international as Gillespie's \"A Night in Tunisia', \"certainly signaled a 'blackness' that became part of the language of subsequent expressions of modern jazz.\" The book \"Jazz 101\" indicates that Powell's performances of this material in 1951 was \"all the more astonishing\" in its \"level of creativity, and even authenticity\" because little was known at the time of African music or how Latin music (aside from the Cuban influence) could be applied to jazz. According to Yanow, in \"Afro-Cuban Jazz: The Essential Listening Companion\", this composition was Powell's only involvement with Afro-Cuban Jazz.\n\nThe album was first released in April 1952 as a 10\" LP in Blue Note's 5000 series (BLP 5003). This collected together eight tracks (four from each session) that had previously been released as 78 rpm singles in 1949 and 1951: \"You Go To My Head c/w Ornithology\" (BN 1566), \"Bouncing With Bud c/w Wail\" (BN 1567), \"Over The Rainbow c/w A Night In Tunisia\" (BN 1576), and \"Un Poco Loco c/w It Could Happen To You\" (BN 1577).\n\nIn March 1956, the album was re-issued as a 12\" LP (BLP 1503), with seven additional tracks (including alternate takes, then a rarity) from both sessions, while \"You Go to My Head\" from the first session, and \"Over the Rainbow\" and \"It Could Happen To You\" (master take) from the second were moved to \"The Amazing Bud Powell, Vol. 2\", initiating the spread of the two sessions between the two volumes. This track listing was kept for the first digital remastering in 1985, when the album was re-issued on vinyl and cassette.\n\nIn 1989, the album was digitally remastered and released on CD. This time the tracks were listed in session chronological order, which involved \"A Night in Tunisia\" (both takes), \"It Could Happen to You\" (alternate take) and \"Parisian Thoroughfare\" moving to \"The Amazing Bud Powell, Vol. 2\" and \"You Go to My Head\", \"Ornithology\" (alternate take) and \"Over the Rainbow\" moving back. Three further alternate takes from the 1949 session were added, completing the session on this volume. The 1951 session still straddled the two volumes.\n\nIn 2001, Rudy Van Gelder remastered the album from scratch (he'd previously been credited with disc transfers on the 1989 remaster), and the album was re-issued as part of Blue Note's The RVG Edition series. This release finally united the two complete sessions on one disc, with all second session material on \"Vol. 2\" being transferred. The track listing was also altered so that alternate takes were grouped after the master takes of each session, avoiding the somewhat relentless take repetition of the 1989 release.\n\n\"Except where otherwise noted, all songs composed by Bud Powell.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\"August 9, 1949 session: tracks 1-11 (referring to the 2001 CD release).\"\n\n\"May 1, 1951 session: tracks 12-20.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1379823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1379823", "title": "The Gilded Age: A Tale of Today", "text": "The Gilded Age: A Tale of Today\n\nThe Gilded Age: A Tale of Today is a novel by Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner first published in 1873. It satirizes greed and political corruption in post–Civil War America. Although not one of Twain's best-known works, it has appeared in more than one hundred editions since its original publication. Twain and Warner originally had planned to issue the novel with illustrations by Thomas Nast. The book is remarkable for two reasons–-it is the only novel Twain wrote with a collaborator, and its title very quickly became synonymous with graft, materialism, and corruption in public life. The novel gave the era its name: the period of US history from the 1870s to about 1900 is now referred to as the Gilded Age.\n\nCharles Dudley Warner, a writer and editor, was a neighbor and good friend of Mark Twain in Hartford, Connecticut. According to Twain's biographer, Albert Bigelow Paine, their wives challenged Twain and Warner at dinner to write a better novel than what they were used to reading. Twain wrote the first eleven chapters, followed by twelve chapters written by Warner. Most of the remaining chapters were also written by only one of them, but the concluding chapters were attributed to joint authorship. The entire novel was completed between February and April 1873.\n\nContemporary critics, while praising its humor and satire, did not consider the collaboration a success because the independent stories written by each author did not mesh well. A review published in 1874 compared the novel to a badly-mixed salad dressing, in which \"the ingredients are capital, the use of them faulty.\"\n\nThe term gilded age, commonly given to the era, comes from the title of this book. Twain and Warner got the name from Shakespeare's \"King John\" (1595): \"To gild refined gold, to paint the lily... is wasteful and ridiculous excess.\" (Act IV, scene 2) Gilding gold, which would be to put gold on top of gold, is excessive and wasteful, characteristics of the age Twain and Warner wrote about in their novel. Another interpretation of the title, of course, is the contrast between an ideal \"Golden Age\" and a less worthy \"Gilded Age,\" as gilding is only a thin layer of gold over baser metal, so the title now takes on a pejorative meaning as to the novel's time, events and people.\n\nThe novel concerns the efforts of a poor rural Tennessee family to become affluent by selling in a timely manner the of unimproved land acquired by their patriarch, Silas \"Si\" Hawkins. After several adventures in Tennessee, the family fails to sell the land and Si Hawkins dies. The rest of the Hawkins story line focuses on their beautiful adopted daughter, Laura. In the early 1870s, she travels to Washington, D.C. to become a lobbyist. With a senator's help, she enters Society and attempts to persuade Congressmen to require the federal government to purchase the land.\n\nA parallel story written by Warner concerns two young upperclass men, Philip Sterling and Henry Brierly, who seek their fortunes in land in a novel way. They make a journey with a group intent on surveying land in Tennessee in order to acquire it for speculation. Philip is good-natured but plodding. He is in love with Ruth Bolton, an aspiring physician and feminist. Henry is a born salesman, charming but superficial.\n\nThe theme of the novel is that the lust for getting rich through land speculation pervades society, illustrated by the Hawkinses as well as Ruth's well-educated father, who nevertheless cannot resist becoming enmeshed in self-evidently dubious money-making schemes.\n\nThe Hawkins sections were written by Twain; these include several humorous sketches. Examples are the steamboat race that leads to a wreck (Chapter IV) and Laura's toying with a clerk in a Washington bookstore (Chapter XXXVI). Notable too is the comic presence throughout the book of the eternally optimistic and eternally broke Micawber-like character, Colonel Beriah Sellers. The character was named Escol Sellers in the first edition and changed to Beriah when an actual George Escol Sellers of Philadelphia objected. A real Beriah Sellers then also turned up, causing Twain to use the name Mulberry Sellers in \"The American Claimant\". The Sellers character was modeled after Twain's maternal cousin, James Lampton, and the land-purchase plot parallels Twain's father's purchase of a Tennessee parcel whose prospective sale, Twain wrote in his autobiography, \"kept us hoping and hoping, during 40 years, and forsook us at last.\"\n\nThe main action of the story takes place in Washington, D.C., and satirizes the greed and corruption of the governing class. Twain also satirizes the social pretensions of the newly rich. Laura's Washington visitors include \"Mrs. Patrique Oreille (pronounced O-relay),\" the wife of \"a wealthy Frenchman from Cork,\" indicating the O'Reilly family has altered their last name to hide their Irish origins.\n\nThe book does not touch upon other themes now associated with the \"Gilded Age,\" such as industrialization, monopolies, and the corruption of urban political machines. This may be because this book was written at the very beginning of the period.\n\nIn the end, Laura fails to convince Congress to purchase the Hawkins land. She kills her married lover but is found not guilty of the crime, with the help of a sympathetic jury and a clever lawyer. However, after a failed attempt to pursue a career on the lecture circuit, her spirit is broken, and she dies regretting her fall from innocence. Washington Hawkins, the eldest son, who has drifted through life on his father's early promise that he would be \"one of the richest men in the world,\" finally gives up the family's ownership of the still-unimproved land parcel when he cannot afford to pay its $180 of taxes. He also appears ready to overcome his passivity: \"The spell is broken, the life-long curse is ended!\" Philip, drawing upon his engineering skills, discovers coal on Mr. Bolton's land, wins Ruth Bolton's heart and appears destined to enjoy a prosperous and conventionally happy marriage. Henry and Sellers, presumably, will continue to live gaily by their wits while others pay their bills.\n\nAlthough more than a century has passed since its publication, the novel's satirical observations of political and social life in Washington, D.C. are still pertinent.\n\nPlaywright and screenwriter David Mamet, speaking of his book \"Bambi Meets Godzilla: On the Nature, Purpose and Practice of the Movie Business\", used \"The Gilded Age\" as a metaphor for Hollywood. On an NPR call-in show, Mamet drew comparisons between the Hawkins family's 40-year quest to win funding for a dam in their hometown and the plight of a young filmmaker trying to sell a script in the unforgiving studio system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "581708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581708", "title": "The Great Courses", "text": "The Great Courses\n\nThe Great Courses (TGC) is a series of college-level audio and video courses produced and distributed by The Teaching Company, an American company based in Chantilly, Virginia.\n\nThe company was founded in 1990 by Thomas M. Rollins, former Chief Counsel of the United States Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources. Rollins had been inspired by a 10-hour videotaped lecture series he watched while at Harvard Law School, and began recruiting professors and experts to record lectures. Rollins invested all his money in the company, at one point using up all his credit cards, selling almost all his suits from his Washington days, and living in an attic. Because his company was for-profit, Rollins adapted course offerings to please customers; he threw out one course because the professor constantly insulted the viewers during lectures and he asked some other professors to re-record segments that had unsupported political commentary. By 2000 the company was well established, with about $20M in annual revenue. In October 2006, the company was acquired by Brentwood Associates, a private equity investment firm. In 2011, the firm had 200 employees. In 2016, the company offered a streaming service, charging $20 per month, and getting access via computer to about 280 courses in their catalog.\n\nThe company has created over 700 courses and sold over a total of 14 million copies since its inception.\n\nSubjects include business, economics, fine arts, music, ancient and medieval history, modern history, literature and English language, philosophy and intellectual history, religion, science, mathematics, social sciences, professional development and better living.\n\nChief executive Paul Suijk described \"The Great Courses\" as the \"Netflix of learning.\" Courses are offered on disks which are either DVDs or CD-audio, and the courses are geared to \"lifelong learners.\" Customers tend to be older professionals and retirees who have had successful careers. Courses cost from $35 to over $500. As of 2018, there are over 600 different courses in their catalog. A benefit of the courses is that the person can learn without having to worry about finishing assignments or slogging through a final exam. A fan of the series is Bill Gates, who said the courses have \"incredible professors\" who cover \"every topic that you can think of\".\n\nThe firm earns $150 million annually in terms of revenue, in 2016. In 2018, the firm has competitors in terms of MOOCs such as Coursera and Khan Academy. The production quality of the courses is \"a cut above\" free courses offered on YouTube, according to a report in \"The New York Times\".\n\nThe firm sometimes sends recruiters to sit in on the lectures of college professors identified as being good teachers, to assess whether they might be suitable for course development; the best prospects would do a lecture for the Teaching Company, and if enough customers liked what they saw, the company would develop the course. Professors submit detailed outlines for each course, and company personnel would work with them to make sure that each 30 minute lecture was coherent and logical.\n\nAnalyst Heather Mac Donald, writing in the conservative publication \"City Journal\", described the courses offered by \"The Teaching Company\" as more mainstream than what is offered at traditional American liberal arts colleges. She described the course selection as being driven by market forces, with the firm's founder, Tom Rollins, querying customers as to what subjects they wanted to learn about, and using market research techniques to figure out what courses to offer, and even what lectures to include, to satisfy an intensely loyal customer base. As a result, there is less emphasis in the catalog on issues such as sexism and racism and more of a focus on \"everything the civilization has figured out so far and to discover new things\", according to Rollins. She writes that the survey format predominates, with few in-depth courses on specific thinkers or philosophical schools, and more emphasis on covering the fundamentals of a subject, as if it was an introductory college course.\n\n\n"}
