{"id": "440410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440410", "title": "Alaa Abdessaheb al-Alwan", "text": "Alaa Abdessaheb al-Alwan\n\nAla Abdessaheb al-Alwan (born 1949) was Minister of Education in the cabinet appointed by the Interim Iraq Governing Council in September 2003, and Minister of Health in the Iraqi Interim Government.\n\nAlwan graduated in Medicine from the University of Alexandria. He practiced medicine in Scotland and obtained his postgraduate training and qualifications in the United Kingdom. Following his return to Iraq, he held several positions in clinical and academic medicine and public health. He was Professor and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Al-Mustansiriya University, Baghdad.\n\nAlwan left Iraq in 2005 back to the World Health Organization (WHO) as Assistant Director General based in Geneva, Switzerland. In October 2011, he was elected by Member States for the position of Regional Director of the World Health Organization Region of the Eastern Mediterranean (covering Arab countries, Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan). His appointment was confirmed by the WHO Executive Board in January 2012. \n\nAfter his retirement, Alwan was appointed by WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to serve on the Independent High-level Commission on Non-Communicable Diseases from 2018 until 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41937628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41937628", "title": "Alim Louis Benabid", "text": "Alim Louis Benabid\n\nAlim Louis Benabid is a French-Algerian emeritus professor, neurosurgeon and member of the French Academy of Sciences, who has had a global impact in the development of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease and other movement disorders. He became emeritus professor of biophysics at the Joseph Fourier University in Grenoble in September 2007, and chairman of the board of the Edmond J. Safra Biomedical Research Center in 2009 at Clinatec, a multidisciplinary institute he co-founded in Grenoble that applies nanotechnologies to neurosciences.\n\nAlim Louis Benabid was born May 2, 1942 in Grenoble, France. The son of a doctor from Algeria and of a French nurse, Benabid was quoted as saying he could not easily decide between studying physics or medicine. He received his medical degree in 1970 and a doctorate in physics in 1978, both from Joseph Fourier University (now part of the Université Grenoble Alpes) in Grenoble. He became a staff neurosurgeon at Joseph Fourier University in 1972, professor of experimental medicine in 1978, and professor of biophysics from 1983 – 2007. Benabid also had a fellowship in 1979 – 1980 in preclinical neuropharmacology in the laboratory of Floyd Bloom at the Salk Institute in La Jolla, California. From 1988 – 2007, he directed the preclinical neurosciences unit at the French biomedical and public health research institution INSERM, and from 1989 – 2007, served as head of the neurosurgery department at the University Hospital of Grenoble. In other roles, Benabid coordinated the Claudio Munari Center for Surgery of Epilepsy and Movement Disorders at Ospedale (Hospital) Niguarda in Milan, Italy from 1998 to 2007, and was a staff consultant at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation in Ohio from 2000 to 2003.\n\nIn 2007, Benabid joined the French Commissariat d’Energie Atomique (CEA - France's nuclear and renewable energy commission) as a scientific adviser during the time a campus for public-private innovation was being created, the Grenoble Innovation for Advanced New Technologies (Giant) campus, which includes the Minatec research complex and the life-science cluster NanoBio. In 2009, he became chairman of the board of the Edmond J. Safra Biomedical Research Center at Clinatec, a translational biomedical technology organization he helped found within Minatec. Clinatec was jointly created by (Laboratoire d'électronique des technologies de l'information—an applied micro- and nanotechnology subsidiary of CEA), Grenoble University Hospital, INSERM and Joseph Fourier University.\nIn 2013, when awarding Benabid a $100,000 Robert A. Pritzker Prize for Leadership in Parkinson's Research to fund continued research, the Michael J. Fox Foundation said in its award announcement that Benabid had published 523 scientific papers, achieving an H Index of 67, as well as given 18 honorary lectures, and received 23 medals and prizes.\n\nBenabid developed stereotactic surgery methods for brain surgery in patients who had brain tumors or certain types of movement disorder.\n\nAs part of the work, he and his team members created tissue banks using tissue from brain tumor biopsies. The tissue samples were used to characterize brain tumors by oncogenic mapping. Studies of genomics and proteomics have highlighted the factors involved in tumor progression and led to therapeutic advances such as anti-angiogenic factors.\n\nFor patients suffering from Parkinson's disease, Benabid and Pierre Pollak, a neurologist at the University Hospital of Grenoble, also developed deep brain stimulation (DBS) in 1987.\n\nParkinson's disease is commonly treated with medicines such as levodopa to improve muscle control, balance and walking, but higher dosages tend to be needed over time in this progressive neurological condition, and long-term use can lead to motor fluctuations such as tremor, rigidity or slowness.\n\nPrior to development of DBS, the main surgical treatment for Parkinson's disease was lesioning to inhibit involuntary abnormal motion associated with severe Parkinson's disease not controlled by optimal medication. As described in a 2010 interview with Benabid in the medical journal \"Lancet\", electrical stimulation was used during surgery to locate the ablation target and predict lesioning effects. To precisely locate the right area, an electrode would be placed around the target and those surrounding areas stimulated with physiological frequencies of 20 – 50 Hz while observing the patient's movement. Since electrical stimulation itself sometimes seemed to quiet tremor during the procedure, Benabid reasoned this might be a solution. He tested from very low frequencies of 1, 5, 10 Hz and more up to 100 Hz, which mimicked effects of ablation without destroying tissue. Initially the thalamus was stimulated. Later animal studies indicated the subthalamic nucleus might be a more effective stimulation target. As technology advanced to allow such stimulation to be continuously applied for a long time, DBS became widely adopted in the 1990s for treatment of movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease, essential tremor, and dystonia.\n\nA meta-analysis of six randomized controlled trials published in 2014 showed that in 1,184 study subjects, DBS significantly improved untreated motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease, permitting a reduction in medication doses and their associated complications; as well as contributing moderately, during the phase when the patients were taking Parkinson's disease medication, to fewer motor symptoms, greater function, and more quality of life.\n\nBenabid has received a number of awards and honors from various countries, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24600657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24600657", "title": "Answers Solutions Knowledge", "text": "Answers Solutions Knowledge\n\nAnswers Solutions Knowledge (ASK) in Morocco is one of the four departments of the Moroccan branch of \"Association des étudiants en sciences économiques et commerciales\" (Association of Commercial and Economic sciences students). Each year AIESEC chooses a socio-cultural theme globally and implements it locally.\n\nAIESEC Morocco was founded in 1986, and came into existence at the Graduate School of International Management (ESIG) in Casablanca. It is based at the Supinfo school.\n\nIn 2009 the organisers chose to organise a campaign to warn youth against the dangers of HIV and AIDS. According to them, taboos are being broken, and the Moroccan youth is sufficiently mature and open to be warned about subjects such as sexuality, dangerous practices, and drug abuse.\n\nSix schools in Rabat (Moulay Youssef, Ben Mbarek, Zahra, Stwaki, Dar Essalam, Les Orangers) and four in Casablanca (Al Jabr, Lyautey, Mohammed V and La Résidence) have been chosen to participate. Battouma, a member of AIESEC-Anfa, whose premises are located at the Supinfo school said: \"We want to make things more fun by having them explained by young people, but by being direct\".\n\nOperation ASK 2009, organised by youngsters for youngsters, is divided into four phases over three months. From 1 January to 16 January, the AIESEC welcomes young specialists who are to work with the schools. Battoum adds, \"Because these youngsters are themselves students, and are from far afield, this can only better capture the attention of our students\". The campaign was launched with an opening ceremony on 17 January at the \"Bibliothèque nationale de Rabat\" (National Library in Rabat) and continued until 18 April at the closing ceremony.\n\nMany training sessions have been held for international and local specialists aged between 18 and 25. More than 100 students are being taught to become binome trainers. In partnership with YPEER, the network of binome trainers organised a conference 14 February on AIDS and youth in the ESCA, facilitated by Abdessamad, a young teacher from YPEER/ALCS (Youth Peer Education Network/American Council of Learned Societies) as part of the training programme. A second conference was held 7 March, focusing on the vulnerability and the changes of behaviour in youth.\n\nThe closing ceremony was held in the form of plays, realised by the students themselves, with the objective of making youngsters react and to implicate all of the actors concerned in this debate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139191", "title": "Breast pain", "text": "Breast pain\n\nBreast pain is the symptom of discomfort in the breast. Pain that involves both breasts and which occurs repeatedly before the menstrual period is generally not serious. Pain that involves only one part of a breast is more concerning. It is particular concerning if a hard mass or nipple discharge is also present.\nCauses may be related to the menstrual cycle, birth control pills, hormone therapy, or psychiatric medication. Pain may also occur in those with large breasts, during menopause, and in early pregnancy. In about 2% of cases breast pain is related to breast cancer. Diagnosis involves examination, with medical imaging if only a specific part of the breast hurts.\nIn more than 75% of people the pain resolves without any specific treatment. Otherwise treatments may include paracetamol or NSAIDs. A well fitting bra may also help. In those with severe pain tamoxifen or danazol may be used. About 70% of women have breast pain at some point in time. Breast pain is one of the most common breast symptom, along with breast masses and nipple discharge.\n\nCyclical breast pain is often associated with fibrocystic breast changes or duct ectasia and thought to be caused by changes of prolactin response to thyrotropin. Some degree of cyclical breast tenderness is normal in the menstrual cycle, and is usually associated with menstruation and/or premenstrual syndrome (PMS).\n\nNoncyclical breast pain has various causes and is harder to diagnose. Noncyclical pain has frequently its root cause outside the breast. Some degree of non-cyclical breast tenderness can normally be present due to hormonal changes in puberty (both in girls and boys), in menopause and during pregnancy. After pregnancy, breast pain can be caused by breastfeeding. Other causes of non-cyclical breast pain include alcoholism with liver damage (likely due to abnormal steroid metabolism), mastitis and medications such as digitalis, methyldopa (an antihypertensive), spironolactone, certain diuretics, oxymetholone (an anabolic steroid), and chlorpromazine (a typical antipsychotic). Also, shingles can cause a painful blistering rash on the skin of the breasts.\n\nSome women who have pain in one or both breasts may fear breast cancer. However, breast pain is not a common symptom of cancer. The great majority of breast cancer cases do not present with symptoms of pain, though breast pain in older women is more likely to be associated with cancer.\n\nDiagnosis involves breast examination, with medical imaging if only a specific part of the breast hurts. Medical imaging by ultrasound is recommended for all ages, well in those over 30 it is recommended together with mammography.\n\nRuling out the other possible causes of the pain is one way to differentiate the source of the pain. Breast pain can be due to:\nMedications can be associated with breast pain and include:\n\nDiagnostic testing can be useful. Typical tests used are mammogram, excisional biopsy for solid lumps, fine-needle aspiration and biopsy, pregnancy test, ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).\n\nIn more than 75% of people the pain resolves without any specific treatment. Otherwise treatments may include paracetamol or NSAIDs. A well fitting bra may also help. In those with severe pain tamoxifen or danazol may be used.\n\nBromocriptine may be used aswell.\n\nSpironolactone, low dose oral contraceptives, and low-dose estrogen have helped to relieve pain. Topical anti-inflammatory medications can be used for localized pain. Vitamin E is not effective in relieving pain nor is evening primrose oil. Vitamin B and vitamin A have not been consistently found to be beneficial. Flaxseed has shown some activity in the treatment of cyclic mastalgia.\n\nPain may be relieved by the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or, for more severe localized pain, by local anaesthetic. Pain may be relieved by reassurance that it does not signal a serious underlying problem, and an active life style can also effect an improvement.\n\nInformation regarding how the pain is real but not necessarily caused by disease can help to understand the problem. Learning breast self-examination helps to orient the woman to normal and expected texture and structure of the breast and nipple. Yearly breast exams may be suggested. Counseling can also be to describe changes that vary during the monthly cycle. Women on hormone replacement therapy may benefit from a dose adjustment. Another non-pharmacological measure to help relieve symptoms of pain may be to use good bra support. Breasts change during adolescence and menopause and refitting may be beneficial. Applying heat and/or ice can bring relief. Dietary changes may also help with the pain. Methylxanthines can be eliminated from the diet to see if a sensitivity is present. Some clinicians recommending a reduction in salt, though no evidence supports this practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "35208701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35208701", "title": "Bunnell Incorporated", "text": "Bunnell Incorporated\n\nBunnell Incorporated is a medical equipment company founded in 1980. The first and most famous product by Bunnell is the Life Pulse Ventilator, the first high-frequency ventilator approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for clinical use in 1988.\n"}
{"id": "52437781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52437781", "title": "Cannabis in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Cannabis in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nCannabis in Bosnia and Herzegovina is illegal.\n\nIn 2016, a survey conducted at the Faculty of Philosophy within Mostar University found that 92% of students supported legalizing cannabis for medical purposes.\n\nIn 2016 it was announced that the Ministry of Civil Affairs had formed a task force to explore the legalizing of cannabis and cannabinoids for medical purposes.\n\nFollowing the 1992–1995 Bosnian War, Bosnia became a major producer of cannabis, with much of its output being routed through Slovenia and Croatia due to higher prices there.\n"}
{"id": "6760484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6760484", "title": "Capital punishment in the Cook Islands", "text": "Capital punishment in the Cook Islands\n\nCapital punishment in the Cook Islands, a state in free association with New Zealand, was officially part of the legal system until 2007, although had never actually been put into practice.\n\nUnder Cook Islands law, capital punishment only ever applied to the crime of treason, for which it was the mandatory sentence. This was defined as participation in a war against the Cook Islands or New Zealand, an attempt to overthrow the Cook Islands government, or an attempt to harm the Queen of New Zealand. The laws regarding capital punishment were based on New Zealand law at the time (New Zealand abolished capital punishment for treason in 1989). The Cook Islands announced the removal of its provisions for capital punishment in 2007, without ever having put them into use.\n\nThe chosen method of execution in the Cook Islands was hanging.\n\n"}
{"id": "31286836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31286836", "title": "Cone beam computed tomography", "text": "Cone beam computed tomography\n\nCone beam computed tomography (or CBCT, also referred to as C-arm CT, cone beam volume CT, or flat panel CT) is a medical imaging technique consisting of X-ray computed tomography where the X-rays are divergent, forming a cone.\n\nCBCT has become increasingly important in treatment planning and diagnosis in implant dentistry, ENT, orthopedics, and interventional radiology (IR), among other things. Perhaps because of the increased access to such technology, CBCT scanners are now finding many uses in dentistry, such as in the fields of oral surgery, endodontics and orthodontics. Integrated CBCT is also an important tool for patient positioning and verification in image-guided radiation therapy (IGRT).\n\nDuring dental/orthodontic imaging, the CBCT scanner rotates around the patient's head, obtaining up to nearly 600 distinct images. For interventional radiology, the patient is positioned offset to the table so that the region of interest is centered in the field of view for the cone beam. A single 200 degree rotation over the region of interest acquires a volumetric data set. The scanning software collects the data and reconstructs it, producing what is termed a \"digital volume\" composed of three-dimensional voxels of anatomical data that can then be manipulated and visualized with specialized software. CBCT shares many similarities with traditional (fan beam) CT however there are important differences, particularly for reconstruction. CBCT has been described as the gold standard for imaging the oral and maxillofacial area.\n\nCone beam technology was first introduced in the European market in 1996 by QR s.r.l. (NewTom 9000) and into the US market in 2001.\n\nIn 2013, during the Festival della Scienza in Genova, Italy, the original members of the research group (Attilio Tacconi, Piero Mozzo, Daniele Godi and Giordano Ronca) received an award for the invention of cone-beam CT.\n\nA dental cone beam scan offers useful information when it comes to the assessment and planning of surgical implants. The American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology (AAOMR) suggests cone-beam CT as the preferred method for presurgical assessment of dental implant sites.\n\nAs a 3D rendition, CBCT offers an undistorted view of the dentition that can be used to accurately visualize both erupted and non-erupted teeth, tooth root orientation and anomalous structures, that conventional 2D radiography cannot.\n\nProcessing example using x-ray data from a tooth model:\nThe CBCT scanner offers undistorted views of the extremities. One advantage of orthopedic CBCT is the ability to take weight bearing images of the lower extremities. In the realm of the foot and ankle particularly, weight bearing CBCT (WBCBCT) is gaining momentum due to its ability to combine 3 dimensional and weight bearing information which are of the utmost importance in diagnosis and surgical planning.\n\nThe CBCT scanner is mounted on a C-arm fluoroscopy unit in the interventional radiology (IR) suite, which offers real time imaging with a stationary patient. This eliminates the time needed to transfer a patient from the angiography suite to a conventional computed tomography scanner and facilitates a broad spectrum of applications of CBCT during IR procedures. The clinical applications of CBCT in IR include treatment planning, device or implant positioning and assessment, intra-procedural localization, and assessment of procedure endpoints. CBCT is useful as a primary and supplemental form of imaging. It is an excellent adjunct to DSA and fluoroscopy for soft tissue and vascular visibility during complex procedures. The use of CBCT before fluoroscopy potentially reduces patient radiation exposure.\n\n\nWhile the practicality of CBCT fosters its increasing application in IR, technical limitations hinder its integration into the field. The two most significant factors that affect successful integration are image quality and time (for set up, image acquisition, and image reconstruction). Compared to multidetector computed tomography (MDCT), the wider collimation in CBCT leads to increased scatter radiation and degradation of image quality as demonstrated by artifacts and decreased contrast-to-noise ratio. The temporal resolution of cesium iodide detectors in CBCT slows data acquisition time to approximately 5 to 20 seconds, which increases motion artifacts. The time required for image reconstruction takes longer for CBCT (1 minute) compared to MDCT (real time) due to the computationally demanding cone beam reconstruction algorithms.\n\nCone beam reconstruction algorithms are similar to typical tomographic reconstruction algorithms, and methods such as filtered backprojection or iterative reconstruction may be used. However, since the reconstruction is three-dimensional, modifications such as the FDK algorithm may be needed. \n\nTotal radiation doses from 3D dental CBCT exams are 96% lower than conventional CT exams, but deliver more radiation than standard dental 2D x-ray (OPG). The time of exposure in CBCT is also comparatively less when compared to conventional CT.\n\nCBCT use is only lightly regulated in the US. The recommended standard of care is to use the smallest possible field of view (FOV), the smallest voxel size, the lowest mA setting and the shortest exposure time in conjunction with a pulsed exposure mode of acquisition. International organisations such as the World Health Organization and ICRP, as well as many local bodies and legislation, encourage the idea of justification for all medical exposures, where risks and benefits must be weighed up before a procedure goes ahead.\n\nThere are a number of drawbacks of CBCT technology over that of medical-grade CT scans, such as increased susceptibility to movement artifacts (in first generation machines) and to the lack of appropriate bone density determination.\n\nThe Hounsfield scale is used to measure radiodensity and, in reference to medical-grade CT scans, can provide an accurate absolute density for the type of tissue depicted. The radiodensity, measured in Hounsfield Units (HU, also known as CT number) is inaccurate in CBCT scans because different areas in the scan appear with different greyscale values depending on their relative positions in the organ being scanned, despite possessing identical densities, because the image value of a voxel of an organ depends on the position in the image volume. HU measured from the same anatomical area with both CBCT and medical-grade CT scanners are not identical and are thus unreliable for determination of site-specific, radiographically-identified bone density for purposes such as the placement of dental implants, as there is \"no good data to relate the CBCT HU values to bone quality.\"\n\nAlthough some authors have supported the use of CBCT technology to evaluate bone density by measuring HU, such support is provided erroneously because scanned regions of the same density in the skull can have a different grayscale value in the reconstructed CBCT dataset.\n\nDental CBCT systems do not employ a standardized system for scaling the grey levels that represent the reconstructed density values and, as such, they are arbitrary and do not allow for assessment of bone quality. In the absence of such a standardization, it is difficult to interpret the grey levels or impossible to compare the values resulting from different machines. While there is a general acknowledgment that this deficiency exists with CBCT systems (in that they do not correctly display HU), there has been little research conducted to attempt to correct this deficiency.\n\nWith time, further advancements in CBCT reconstruction algorithms will allow for improved area detectors, and this, together with enhanced postprocessing, will likely solve or reduce this problem. A method for establishing attenuation coefficients with which actual HU values can be derived from CBCT HU values was published in 2010 and further research is currently under way to perfect this method \"in vivo\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43698229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43698229", "title": "Consumers United for Evidence-based Healthcare", "text": "Consumers United for Evidence-based Healthcare\n\nConsumers United for Evidence-based Healthcare (CUE) is a coalition of health advocacy consumer groups interested in evidence-based healthcare. It was formed in 2003.\n\nCUE provides leadership to other efforts aimed at involving patients in the research process, strengthening the voice of consumers in healthcare research, which has been called for over two decades but which has not always been successfully implemented free of commercial influence. By creating opportunities for networking and learning, similar to those available to health professionals, CUE members can be empowered and have an ongoing source of information and tools about health issues of concern. This would, at least in theory, give the member groups an edge in advocacy activities.\n\nSince its establishment, CUE members have been asked to testify on national committees, contribute letters to the biomedical literature, sit on national professional society steering groups and advisory panels and many other contributions.\n\nAs a condition of membership, CUE members may not receive the majority of their funding from commercial sources. All CUE members agree at the time of membership application to attend an annual CUE meeting to set priorities, receive training, and collaborate with other consumer and health advocates throughout the United States. CUE membership is currently about 50 member groups; the earliest members include the National Breast Cancer Coalition, \"Consumer Reports\", and the Black Women's Health Imperative, among others. \n\nCUE has hosted three Summit conferences, in 2007, 2010 and 2017, attended by health advocacy organizations and other key stakeholder groups. CUE also holds an annual membership meeting in Washington, DC and disseminates slidecasts from the meeting to the public. Past speakers have included:\n\nAll of CUE's training materials are available free of charge to the public. CUE has produced these materials with the input of patients, consumers, guideline developers, and health professionals. The resources available on the CUE website are as follows:\n\nCUE also hosts social networking through Facebook groups and Twitter, and contributes its views and support to international projects such as AllTrials.\n\nIn keeping with its role as a consumer-scientist partnership, CUE maintains a clearinghouse function which matches consumers with healthcare professional organizations so that the consumer voice may be incorporated into important healthcare decisions. Past partnerships have matched consumer representatives into research implementation processes such as clinical guidelines panels, grant-writing, peer review, and conference workshops.\n\nThrough the CUE Clearinghouse, health professional organizations can request consumer representatives for their research/research implementation projects and consumers can respond directly to those requests. Since 2007, CUE has fostered over 75 partnerships between consumers and policymaking organizations, including 12 in 2014 alone.\nIn order to prepare all stakeholders for a panel with meaningful consumer engagement, CUE has created a series of short videos based on real-life interactions between professionals and patients participating on advisory panels. These videos demonstrate real-life scenarios and situations that professional guideline developers and consumer advocates serving on advisory panels are likely to encounter. They focus on specific steps in the advisory panel process such as preparing for a panel as a consumer, effectively moderating the panel as a Chair, and how to ensure that diverse opinions are heard, understood, and respected during advisory panel meetings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37643654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37643654", "title": "Cup of Excellence", "text": "Cup of Excellence\n\nThe Cup of Excellence is an annual competition held in several countries to identify the highest quality coffees produced. It is organised by the Alliance for Coffee Excellence, which was founded by George Howell and Susie Spindler. The winning coffees are sold in internet auctions. The concept was developed by the Gourmet Coffee Project of the International Coffee Organization (ICO). This project was devised by Pablo Dubois, Head of Operations of the ICO and Frans Bolvenkel, of the International Trade Centre (ITC) at a meeting in Geneva in late 1994. This project, supervised by the ICO, managed by the ITC and largely financed by the Common Fund for Commodities, ran from 1995 to 2000, and aimed to develop methodologies for the creation of new \"gourmet\" or high-quality speciality coffees. The Cup of Excellence competition has been dubbed as the 'Oscars of the coffee world'.\n\nThe competitions began in 1999. By 2013 they were held in Brazil, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Burundi, Rwanda, Colombia and Bolivia. In the course of the competition each coffee is tested at least five times. Only those coffees that get high scores continuously move forward in the competition. The final winners are awarded the Cup of Excellence and sold via an internet auction to the highest bidder. \n\n"}
{"id": "54006800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54006800", "title": "Darkness into Light", "text": "Darkness into Light\n\nDarkness into Light is an annual walking event and fundraiser held, primarily, across the island of Ireland. Participants meet before dawn (4.15am) on a particular Saturday in May and walk or run for 5km to meet the sunrise. Founded in 2009 by psychologist Joan Freeman as a fundraiser in the Phoenix Park for Pieta House suicide prevention and counselling, 400 attended the first event while the 2017 event was attended by an estimated 150,000 - 200,000 participants at more than 150 locations. Similar events occur in Australia and New Zealand, Asia and North America. The Taoiseach Enda Kenny attended an DIL event in Toronto in Canada during a state visit there in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "45337421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45337421", "title": "Department of Health &amp; Human Services (Victoria)", "text": "Department of Health &amp; Human Services (Victoria)\n\nThe Department of Health & Human Services is a government department responsible for health, ambulance services, families and children, youth affairs, public housing, disability, ageing, mental health and sport policy in the state of Victoria, Australia. Formerly the Department of Health, Department of Human Services and Sports and Recreation Victoria, the department was reconstituted as a single unit on 1 January 2015. The department is responsible for developing and delivering policies, programs and services that support and enhance the wellbeing of all Victorians.\n\nThe department provides advice to four ministers of the Victorian Government:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11844777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11844777", "title": "Donald Ardell", "text": "Donald Ardell\n\nDonald B. Ardell is an American author and speaker in the wellness movement. \n\nArdell earned a bachelor's degree in sociology in 1963 from George Washington University. He attended GWU. He earned a masters degree in city and regional planning at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1965 and attended Stanford University Business School's Senior Executive Program in 1973. He was awarded his doctorate in health and public policy in 1977 by Union Institute and University. \n\nIn 1974 he wrote a series of articles in the \"American Journal of Health Planning\" that described how health planning could be reoriented from regulating hospital expansions to promoting healthy lifestyles. He reported that before the essential demise of health planning in the late 70's, one-third of area-wide health planning agencies had adopted a goal of promoting wellness.\n\nIn 1977 he published \"High Level Wellness: An Alternative to Doctors, Drugs, and Disease\", expanding the concept of \"High Level Wellness\" first employed by Halbert L. Dunn. Ardell's book was a best-seller, published initially by Rodale Press and then in numerous reprint editions by Bantam Books and Ten-Speed Press. He later wrote additional wellness books, including \"14 Days to a Wellness Lifestyle\", \"REAL Wellness\" and \"Aging Beyond Belief\". \n\nHe was an adjunct professor at the University of Central Florida where he guided that university's Campus Wellness Center from 1984 until 1996. He started published the quarterly \"Ardell Wellness Report\" in 1984 and has produced a weekly electronic newsletter by the same name. \n\nArdell was one of ten people given the Healthy America Fitness Leader's Award in 1991 by the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, the Allstate Insurance Company and the U.S. Jaycees. \n\nIn 2010, Ardell was honored in Düsseldorf by the German Wellness Association with a Lifetime Achievement Award. In the same year, he recited Robert Green Ingersoll's 1890 \"Lotus Club speech\" in the annual Ingersoll Oratory Contest sponsored by the Washington Area Humanist Association, winning second place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5362687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5362687", "title": "EMAS Canada", "text": "EMAS Canada\n\nEMAS CANADA is a Christian interdenominational non-governmental organization (NGO) providing charitable medical and dental care to under-serviced areas throughout the world.\n\nEMAS was founded in 1948, the EMAS CANADA national office is located in Burlington, Ontario.\n\nEMAS supports local healthcare endeavours/initiatives and sends medical, surgical and dental teams of healthcare professionals to assist in under-serviced areas overseas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1141675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1141675", "title": "Exercise intensity", "text": "Exercise intensity\n\nExercise intensity refers to how much energy is expended when exercising. Perceived intensity varies with each person. It has been found that intensity has an effect on what fuel the body uses and what kind of adaptations the body makes after exercise. Intensity is the amount of physical power (expressed as a percentage of the maximal oxygen consumption) that the body uses when performing an activity. For example, exercise intensity defines how hard the body has to work to walk a mile in 20 minutes.\n\nHeart Rate is typically used as a measure of exercise intensity. Heart rate can be an indicator of the challenge to the cardiovascular system that the exercise represents.\n\nThe most precise measure of intensity is oxygen consumption (VO). VO represents the overall metabolic challenge that an exercise imposes. There is a direct linear relationship between intensity of aerobic exercise and VO. Our maximum intensity is a reflection of our maximal oxygen consumption (VO max). Such a measurement represents a cardiovascular fitness level.\n\nVO is measured in METs (mL/kg/min). One MET, which is equal to 3.5 ml/kg per minute, is considered to be the average resting energy expenditure of a typical human being. Intensity of exercise can be expressed as multiples of resting energy expenditure. An intensity of exercise equivalent to 6 METs means that the energy expenditure of the exercise is six times the resting energy expenditure. \nIntensity of exercise can be expressed in absolute or relative terms. For example, two individuals with different measures of VO max, running at 7 mph are running at the same absolute intensity (miles/hour) but a different relative intensity (% of VO max expended). The individual with the higher VO max is running at a lower intensity at this pace than the individual with the lower VO max is.\n\nSome studies measure exercise intensity by having subjects perform exercise trials to determine peak power output, which may be measured in watts, heart rate, or (on a cycle) average cadence (cycling). This approach attempts to gauge overall workload.\n\nExercise is categorized into three different intensity levels. These levels include low, moderate, and vigorous and are measured by the metabolic equivalent of task (aka metabolic equivalent or METs).\nThe effects of exercise are different at each intensity level (i.e. training effect). Recommendations to lead a healthy lifestyle vary for individuals based on age, weight, and existing activity levels. “Published guidelines for healthy adults state that 20-60 minutes of medium intensity continuous or intermittent aerobic activity 3-5 times per week is needed for developing and maintaining cardiorespiratory fitness, body composition, and muscular strength.”\n\nThe body uses different amounts of energy substrates (carbohydrates or fats) depending on the intensity of the exercise and the heart rate of the exerciser. Protein is a third energy substrate, but it contributes minimally and is therefore discounted in the percent contribution graphs reflecting different intensities of exercise. The fuel provided by the body dictates an individual's capacity to increase the intensity level of a given activity. In other words, the intensity level of an activity determines the order of fuel recruitment. Specifically, exercise physiology dictates that low intensity, long duration exercise provides a larger percentage of fat contribution in the calories burned because the body does not need to quickly and efficiently produce energy (i.e., adenosine triphosphate) to maintain the activity. On the other hand, high intensity activity utilizes a larger percentage of carbohydrates in the calories expended because its quick production of energy makes it the preferred energy substrate for high intensity exercise. High intensity activity also yields a higher total caloric expenditure.\n\nThis table outlines the estimated distribution of energy consumption at different intensity levels for a healthy 20-year-old with a Max Heart Rate (MHR) of 200.\n\nThese estimates are valid only when glycogen reserves are able to cover the energy needs. If a person depletes glycogen reserves after a long workout (a phenomenon known as \"hitting the wall\") or during a low carbohydrate diet, the body will shift into ketosis and use mostly fat and muscle for energy. Intermittent fasting can be used to train the body to shift easily into ketosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "15616815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15616815", "title": "Fransiskushjelpen", "text": "Fransiskushjelpen\n\nFransiskushjelpen is a Catholic charitable organisation in Norway, founded in by Brita Collett Paus in 1956. Its administration headquarters are in Oslo, at St. Hallvard's Church and Monastery.\n\nThe organisation, connected to the Franciscan order, provide help to the seriously ill and dying people and to people in need, regardless of religious beliefs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7837448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7837448", "title": "Glasgow Ice Cream Wars", "text": "Glasgow Ice Cream Wars\n\nThe Ice Cream Wars was a turf war in the East End of Glasgow, in Scotland, in the 1980s between rival criminal organisations selling drugs and stolen goods from ice cream vans. Van operators were involved in frequent violence and intimidation tactics. A driver and his family were killed in an arson attack that resulted in a 20-year court battle. The conflicts generated widespread public outrage, and earned the Strathclyde Police the nickname of \"serious chimes squad\" (a pun on Serious Crime Squad) for its perceived failure to address them.\n\nIn the 1980s in Glasgow, Scotland, several ice-cream vendors also sold drugs and stolen goods along their routes, using the ice cream sales as fronts. A turf war erupted between these vendors, and much of the violence was either intimidation or competition. During the conflict, rival vendors raided each others' vans and fired shotguns into the windscreens of the vehicles. \n\nThe culmination of the violence came on 16 April 1984 with the murder by arson of six members of the Doyle family, in the Ruchazie housing estate. Eighteen-year-old Andrew Doyle, nicknamed \"Fat Boy\", a driver for the Marchetti firm, had resisted being intimidated into distributing drugs on his run, and attempts to take over his run – resistance that had already led to him being shot by an unidentified assailant through the windscreen of his van.\n\nA further so-called frightener was planned against him. At 02:00, the door on the landing outside the top-floor flat in Ruchazie where he lived with his family was doused with petrol and set alight. The members of the Doyle family, and three additional guests who were staying the night in the flat that night, were asleep at the time. The resulting blaze killed five people, with a sixth dying later in hospital: James Doyle, aged 53; his daughter Christina Halleron, aged 25; her 18-month-old son Mark; and three of Mr Doyle's sons, James, Andrew (the target of the intimidation), and Tony, aged 23, 18, and 14 respectively.\n\nThe ensuing public outrage in Glasgow at the deaths was considerable. Strathclyde Police arrested several people over the following months, eventually charging six of them. Four were tried and convicted of offences relating to the vendettas. The remaining two, Thomas \"T C\" Campbell and Joe Steele, were tried for the murders, convicted unanimously (unanimity is not required in Scotland) and sentenced to life imprisonment, of which they were to serve no fewer than 20 years according to the judge's recommendation. Campbell was also separately convicted (again with the jury returning a unanimous verdict) of involvement in the earlier shotgun attack, and sentenced to serve 10 years in prison for that.\n\nWhat ensued was a 20-year court battle by the two men, one of the more contentious in Scottish legal history, and, in the later words of Campbell's solicitor, Aamer Anwar, speaking in 2004, \"20 years of hunger strikes, prison breakouts, demonstrations, political pressure, solitary isolation, prison beatings, [and] legal fight after legal fight\".\n\nThe Crown's case against Campbell and Steele rested on three pieces of evidence:\n\nAccording to the Crown, Campbell was a man with a record of violence (he had already served several years in prison in the 1970s, and had been back in prison from 1982 to 1983) who had entered the ice cream van business in 1983, and who had been keen to protect his \"patch\" against the rival Marchetti family; and Steele was Campbell's henchman, a sidekick recruited to help with the dirty work in Campbell's planned campaign of violence against Marchetti drivers and vans.\n\nThe defence rejected the Crown's evidence during the 27-day trial, and afterwards Campbell continued to assert that he had been \"fitted up\" by both Love and the police. Campbell described Love during the trial as \"a desperado\" who had been willing to be a witness, pointing the finger at (in Campbell's words) \"any one of us\" to avoid going to prison himself, having been granted bail in exchange for testimony. Campbell denied that he had made any such statement to the police as was claimed, asserted that the police had planted the map in his house, and claimed that when he had been arrested and taken to Baird Street police station, a senior police officer had told him \"This is where we do the fitting up. I am going to nail you to the wall.\" He stated that at the time of the fire he had been at home with his wife. Steele also gave an alibi for the time of the fire.\n\nAfter conviction, Campbell and Steele tried to have their conviction overturned in 1989, but failed.\n\nSeveral years later, in 1992, two journalists, Douglas Skelton and Lisa Brownlie, wrote a book, \"Frightener\", about the conflicts and the trial. They interviewed Love for the book, who stated, and later signed affidavits attesting, that he had lied under oath. In Love's own words \"I did so because it suited my own selfish purposes. The explanation as to why I gave evidence is this: The police pressurised me to give evidence against Campbell, who they clearly believed was guilty of arranging to set fire to Doyle's house.\"\n\nAs a result, both Campbell and Steele engaged in campaigns of protest to attempt to publicise their cases. Steele escaped from prison several times, to make high-profile demonstrations, including a rooftop protest and supergluing himself to the railings at Buckingham Palace. Campbell protested whilst remaining in Barlinnie prison, going on hunger strike, refusing to cut his hair, and making a documentary. After a lengthy legal argument, the Secretary of State for Scotland referred the case to the appeal court, granting Campbell and Steele interim freedom pending its outcome.\n\nThe appeal failed. The three appeal judges reached a split decision on whether the fresh evidence relating to Love's testimony (and relating to a potentially exculpatory statement made to the police by Love's sister, which had not been disclosed to the defence at the trial) would have significantly affected the outcome of the original trial, and thus should be heard. Lord Cullen and Lord Sutherland both opined that it would have not, with Lord McCluskey dissenting. Campbell and Steele were returned to prison.\n\nThe legal fight continued. A further petition was presented to the Scottish Secretary asking for the case to be referred back to the Court of Appeal. Donald Dewar refused to refer the case, because he did not \"believe that they present[ed] grounds for a referral of the case to the appeal court\". Solicitors for Campbell and Steele then took the case to the then newly created Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission, which took up the case.\n\nThe Commission first requested and received material from the Crown Office. It then went to court to obtain further Crown paperwork relating to the case, including government correspondence. The Crown fought against the release of the paperwork, on the grounds that the Commission had not justified it gaining access to the paperwork and that the papers were in the same category as paperwork that the Commission had already been denied access to by Scottish Executive's Justice Department. Lord Clarke ruled in favour of the Commission being granted access to the paperwork, stating that \"The commission [has] a statutory obligation to carry out a full, independent and impartial investigation into alleged miscarriages of justice\" and that \"Legislation under which [it acts] was clearly designed to give the widest powers to perform that duty.\"\n\nThe Commission decided that the case should be referred back to the appeal court. Pending the outcome of the appeal Lord Justice Clerk, Lord Gill, granted Campbell and Steele interim freedom a second time.\n\nThree years later, the appeal was heard by the appeal court, and it succeeded. Lord Gill, Lord MacLean, and Lord Macfadyan quashed the convictions as a result of hearing new evidence and because of what they stated to be significant misdirection of the jury by the judge at the original trial. The new evidence, which was not contradicted by the Crown, was from Brian Clifford, a professor of cognitive psychology, who testified that the recollection of Campbell's statement by the four police officers at the time of the original trial was \"too exact\". Clifford had performed studies where he tested people in Scotland and England on their ability to recall things that they had just heard. His results were that people only recalled between 30% and 40% of the actual words they heard, and that the highest score obtained by anyone trying to recall what Campbell was supposed to have said was 17 words out of the 24 used. He concluded that people process utterances for \"meaning rather than [for] actual wording\". He stated that these results \"strongly suggested that it was not at all likely\" that the officers would be able to record Campbell's statement \"in such similar terms\". The appeal judges concluded that \"any jury hearing Prof. Clifford's evidence would have assessed the evidence of the arresting police officers in an entirely different light\" and that the evidence \"is of such significance that the verdicts of the jury, having been returned in ignorance of it, must be regarded as miscarriages of justice\". Campbell (represented by Maggie Scott QC) and Steele were freed.\n\nThe original trial judge, Lord Kincraig, who had told Campbell and Steele in court at the original trial that he regarded them as \"vicious and dangerous men\", at that point in his 80s and having been retired for 18 years, spoke out against the ruling of the appeal court days afterward, stating that he could not \"accept there was a conspiracy among the police\". At the original trial he had instructed the jury that to believe Campbell and Steele's assertions was to accept that \"not one or two or four but a large number of detectives have deliberately come here to perjure themselves, to build up a false case against an accused person\" and to accept the implication that there had been a conspiracy by police officers of the \"most sinister and serious kind\" to \"saddle the accused wrongly with the crimes of murder and attempted murder, and a murder of a horrendous nature\". After the convictions were quashed, he criticised the appeal court for \"[usurping] the function of the jury\" in that \"[t]he function of the jury is to decide questions of fact not law\" and that the appeal court \"seem[s] to have said that evidence is not believable, which is the jury's province. That's a decision in fact. The court of appeal has decided in fact the jury was wrong.\"\n\nCampbell called for a fresh investigation of the murder of the Doyle family, accusing Tam McGraw both of the original murders and of instigating a campaign over 20 years to ensure that Campbell remained in jail and was silenced, including repeated attempts on Campbell's life. But commentators considered it unlikely that a fresh investigation would be launched as a result of the convictions being quashed and the fresh evidence that had been presented since the original trial. This was in part because claims by Campbell against a man whom he is regarded as hating are viewed with scepticism (his stabbing in 2002 was believed at the time to be part of a long running tit-for-tat feud between the two men), and in part because two police officers who had been heavily involved in the case had since died: Detective Superintendent Norrie Walker in 1988 and Detective Chief Superintendent Charles Craig, head of the Criminal Investigation Department at the time of the murders, in 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "10381331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10381331", "title": "Hazards (magazine)", "text": "Hazards (magazine)\n\nHazards is an independent, award-winning occupational safety and health magazine. Published quarterly, it is the trade union recommended magazine for UK union health and safety representatives. \"Hazards\" has also jointly developed a NewsWire with LabourStart which provides health and safety news headlines for union websites as an RSS feed.\n\n\"Hazards\" was conceived in January 1976 as the \"Hazards Bulletin\" by Charlie Clutterbuck, Alan Dalton and Tony Fletcher - all members of the British Society for Social Responsibility in Science (BSSRS) - in response to the introduction of the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974. The three had been involved in the production of the BSSRS magazine \"Science for People\" (SfP), which \"provided brief coverage of topical science matters from a radical standpoint as well as reporting on the work of BSSRS\", and increasingly found themselves addressing organised labour events on the subject of industrial hazards. Clutterbuck said later: \"We recognised that there was a lot of different people becoming more interested in health and safety matters, because it was more \"political\". We saw health and safety at the very core of the crunch between capital and labour. We wanted those people to keep connected with each other and thought a magazine may help.\" The title of the magazine was inspired by the book \"The Hazards of Work: How to Fight Them\" (1974; Pluto Press) by Patrick Kinnersley.\n\nFollowing publication of his book \"Asbestos: Killer Dust\" (1979; BSSRS) Dalton was successfully sued for libel in 1984 by Robert Murray, a former medical adviser to the Trades Union Congress. In the book Dalton had criticised Murray's pro-asbestos industry views and claimed that they were contrary to his position within the union movement. Although Murray was only awarded £500 damages, Dalton's legal costs of £30,000 bankrupted \"Hazards Bulletin\". The magazine relaunched under the truncated title \"Hazards\" the same year.\n\n\"Hazards\" is the winner of The Work Foundation Workworld Media Award 2007 and 2008 for online journalism. The judges commended the magazine for its \"depth and seriousness, and its spiky determination to campaign for those at the rough end of working life.\" In 2008, US occupational safety magazine \"EHS Today\" named \"Hazards\" editor Rory O’Neill one of the 50 most influential health and safety leaders of the last decade. O'Neill is a professor of occupational and environmental policy research at the University of Stirling and the health, safety and environment officer for the International Federation of Journalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "12905975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12905975", "title": "Henry Tonks", "text": "Henry Tonks\n\nHenry Tonks, FRCS (9 April 1862 – 8 January 1937) was a British surgeon and later draughtsman and painter of figure subjects, chiefly interiors, and a caricaturist. He became an influential art teacher.\n\nHe was one of the first British artists to be influenced by the French Impressionists; he exhibited with the New English Art Club, and was an associate of many of the more progressive artists of late Victorian Britain, including James McNeill Whistler, Walter Sickert, John Singer Sargent and George Clausen.\n\nTonks was born in Solihull. His family owned a brass foundry in Birmingham. He was educated briefly at Bloxham School, followed by Clifton College in Bristol, and then studied medicine at the Royal Sussex County Hospital in Brighton (1882–85) and the London Hospital in Whitechapel (1885–88). He became a house surgeon at the London Hospital in 1886, under Sir Frederick Treves. He was elected as a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1888 and moved to the Royal Free Hospital in London. He taught anatomy at the London Hospital medical school from 1892.\n\nFrom 1888 he studied in the evenings at Westminster School of Art, under Frederick Brown. He exhibited paintings with the New English Art Club from 1891 and became a member of the Club in 1895.\n\nBrown became Slade Professor of Fine Art at University College, London in 1892, and Tonks started to teach at the Slade School of Fine Art. Tonks became \"the most renowned and formidable teacher of his generation\". Pupils of Tonks at the Slade included Winifred Knights, David Bomberg, William Lionel Clause, Mukul Dey, Ian Fairweather, Mark Gertler, Harold Gilman, Spencer Gore, Edna Clarke Hall, Augustus John, Gwen John, Percy Wyndham Lewis, Hyam Myer, William Orpen, Isaac Rosenberg, Stanley Spencer, and Rex Whistler. His sarcasm there drove F. M. Mayor's sister Alice to leave before completing her training. His student Paul Nash recalled Tonks' withering manner:\n\n\"Tonks cared nothing for other authorities and he disliked self-satisfied young men….His surgical eye raked my immature designs. With hooded stare and sardonic mouth, he hung in the air above me, like a tall question mark, moreover… of a derisive, rather than an inquisitive order. In cold discouraging tones he welcomed me to the Slade. It was evident he considered that neither the Slade, nor I, was likely to derive much benefit.\"\n\nTonks resumed his medical career in 1914, first at a prisoner of war camp in Dorchester, and then at Hill Hall in Essex. He made pastel drawings of Auguste Rodin and his wife, who were refugees. He served as a medical orderly at a British Red Cross hospital near the Marne in France in 1915, and joined an ambulance unit in Italy. He became a lieutenant in the Royal Army Medical Corps in 1916, and worked for Harold Gillies producing pastel drawings recording facial injury cases at the Cambridge military hospital in Aldershot and the Queen's Hospital, Sidcup – a contribution recognised in the exhibitions \"Faces of Battle\" at the National Army Museum in 2008 and \"Henry Tonks: Art and Surgery\" at the Strang Print Room of University College London in 2002. There is also information on him at Will Self's \"Kafka's Wound\".\n\nTonks became an official war artist in 1918, and he accompanied John Singer Sargent on tours of the Western Front. In August 1918, they both witnessed a field of wounded men near Le Bac du Sud, Doullens, which became the basis for Sargent's vast canvas, \"Gassed\". Tonks went to Archangel in Russia in 1919 as a war artist with a British expeditionary force.\n\nHe succeeded Frederick Brown as Slade Professor of Fine Art from 1918 to 1930, although he initially turned down the appointment in favour of Walter Sickert, only taking it up when Sickert declined the position. Further post-war students included Thomas Monnington, William Coldstream, Helen Lessore, Lesley Blanch and Philip Evergood. Lessore, who founded the Beaux Arts Gallery with her husband Frederick Lessore in 1923, described him as \"a towering, dominating figure, about 6ft. 4in. tall, lean and ascetic looking, with large ears, hooded eyes, a nose dropping vertically from the bridge like an eagle's beak and quivering camel-like mouth\".\n\nHe retired in 1930, and declined the offer of a knighthood. An exhibition of his work was held in London at the Tate Gallery in 1936, only the second retrospective at the Tate for a living British artist. He died at his home in Chelsea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23985187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23985187", "title": "High pressure injection injury", "text": "High pressure injection injury\n\nA grease gun injury or injection injury is an injury caused by high-pressure injection of oil, grease, diesel fuel, gasoline, solvents, water, or even air, into the body. The most common causes are accidents with grease guns, paint sprayers, and pressure washers, but working on diesel and gasoline engine fuel injection systems as well as pinhole leaks in pressurized hydraulic lines can also cause this injury. Additionally, there is at least one known case of deliberate self-injection with a grease gun.\n\nAlthough the initial wound often seems minor, the unseen, internal damage can be severe. With hydraulic fluids, paint, and detergents, these injuries are extremely serious as most hydraulic fluids and organic solvents are highly toxic. Delay in surgical treatment often leads to amputations or death. But even with pure water or air, these injuries cause compartment syndrome which leads to cell death if surgical intervention is delayed.\n\n"}
{"id": "55820145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55820145", "title": "Histamine intolerance", "text": "Histamine intolerance\n\nHistamine intolerance, sometimes called histaminosis, is an over-accumulation of histamine in the human body. Histamine intolerance is sometimes informally called an allergy; however, the intolerance is technically caused by the gradual accumulation of extracellular histamine due to an imbalance.\n\nRoughly 1% of the population has histamine intolerance; of those, 80% are middle-aged.\n\nThe imbalance in histamine intolerance is between the synthesis and selective release of histamine from certain granulocytes (i.e., mast cells and basophils), versus the breakdown of histamine by the enzymes which metabolize it, such as diamine oxidase (DAO) and histamine N-methyltransferase (HNMT). \n\nIn contrast, allergic reactions involving an immediate allergic response to an allergen are caused by anaphylactic degranulation, which is the abrupt and explosive release of \"pre-formed mediators\", including histamine, from mast cells and basophils throughout the body. \n"}
{"id": "55532625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55532625", "title": "Ianthe Blyden", "text": "Ianthe Blyden\n\nIanthe Blyden (April 14, 1899 – June 30, 1984) was a Virgin Islander, born at a time when the islands were held by the Danish. She trained as a nurse and served for fifty-three years at Knud Hansen Memorial Hospital, for thirty-seven of those years she was head nurse. She was instrumental in the development of nursing in the US Virgin Islands and the influence for establishing the island's nursing board.\n\nIanthe Amelia Blyden was born on April 14, 1899 in the Danish West Indies. She was the eldest of nine children born to Terecita Blyden, a nurse-midwife, who had come from Saint John. Terecita had been trained by an aunt who had studied the profession in Copenhagen. The family owned a sugar manufactory in Saint John at Annaberg and another at Mary's Point. Blyden completed her schooling through age thirteen, the maximum schooling at the time.\n\nBlyden began her career as a teacher on Saint John at the age of fifteen for a salary of $2.50 per month. After a year, she decided not to pursue teaching and instead went to the Danish Municipal Hospital in Charlotte Amalie to study nursing under the doctors there. In 1916, she began working as a nurse for the monthly salary of $5.00. The following year, the Danish West Indies were sold to the United States, which brought in Navy Nurses to implement a three-year training program. She became a nurse-anesthetist and worked in the pharmacy and laboratory as an assistant. She also acted as a midwife when needed.\n\nIn 1932, during the malaria epidemic, she was appointed head nurse, becoming the first native-born islander to hold the post. Climbing the professional ladder, she was made chief nurse, nursing supervisor and finally director of nurses. In 1946, having graduated from the Municipal Hospital School of Nursing, Blyden took a leave from her supervisory duties to complete post-graduate studies in surgical nursing at the Lincoln School for Nurses in The Bronx, New York City. In the early 1950s, soon after the Danish doctor, Knud Hansen died, the old Danish Hospital was replaced with a new facility, named in his honor. In 1952, when the Colonial Council passed the inaugural Nurse Practice Act, Governor Morris de Castro appointed Blyden, Ilva Benjamin, Clarissa Milligan, Ingerborg Nesbitt, and Josephine Singleton for the Board of Nursing. Blyden was the driving force in the formation of the St. Thomas Chapter of the Licensed Practical Nurses Association, which formed in 1956.\n\nBlyden retired in 1969 after having served for fifty-three years in nursing with thirty-seven of those as a head nurse.\n\nBlyden died on June 30, 1984 in St. Thomas and her services were held at the Memorial Moravian Church.\n"}
{"id": "198076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198076", "title": "International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War", "text": "International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War\n\nInternational Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War (IPPNW) is a non-partisan federation of national medical groups in 63 countries, representing doctors, medical students, other health workers, and concerned people who share the common goal of creating a more peaceful and secure world free from the threat of nuclear annihilation. The organization's headquarters is in Malden, Massachusetts. IPPNW was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985.\n\nIPPNW affiliates are national medical organizations with a common commitment to the abolition of nuclear weapons and the prevention of war. Affiliates range in size from a handful of dedicated physicians and medical students to tens of thousands of activists and their supporters. As independent organizations within a global federation, IPPNW affiliates engage in a wide variety of activities related to war, health, social justice, and the environment.\n\nIPPNW was founded in 1980 by physicians from the United States and the Soviet Union who shared a common commitment to the prevention of nuclear war between their two countries. Citing the first principle of the medical profession — that doctors have an obligation to prevent what they cannot treat — a global federation of physician experts came together to explain the medical and scientific facts about nuclear war to policy makers and to the public, and to advocate for the elimination of nuclear weapons from the world’s arsenals.\n\nFounding co-presidents Bernard Lown of the United States and Yevgeniy Chazov of the Soviet Union were joined by other early IPPNW leaders including Jim Muller, of Romania and Eric Chivian of the US and Mikhail Kuzin and Leonid Ilyin of the Soviet Union. They organized a team to conduct meticulous scientific research based on data collected by Japanese colleagues who had studied the effects of the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and drew upon their knowledge of the medical effects of burn, blast, and radiation injuries.\n\nThe doctors sounded a medical warning to humanity: that nuclear war would be the final epidemic; that there would be no cure and no meaningful medical response. Their message reached millions of people around the world. In the words of former New Zealand Prime Minister David Lange, \"IPPNW made medical reality a part of political reality.\"\n\nIn its first five years, IPPNW, working closely with its US affiliate Physicians for Social Responsibility and IPPNW-Russia, educated health professionals, political leaders, and the public about the medical and environmental consequences of nuclear warfare. For this effort, which united physicians across the Cold War divide, IPPNW was awarded the UNESCO Prize for Peace Education in 1984 and the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985. The Nobel Committee, in its announcement of the award, said IPPNW \"has performed a considerable service to mankind by spreading authoritative information and by creating an awareness of the catastrophic consequences of atomic warfare.\"\n\nAlthough the Cold War ended with the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the US and Russia retained thousands of nuclear weapons ready to launch at a moment’s notice. Proliferation and the threat of nuclear terrorism have added to the nuclear danger in the post-Cold-War world.\n\nDuring the 1990s, IPPNW established an International Commission to Investigate the Health and Environmental Effects of Nuclear Weapons Production and Testing and worked with the Institute for Energy and Environmental Research to document these effects. The Commission produced a series of books including \"Radioactive Heaven and Earth\", \"Plutonium: The Deadly Gold of the Nuclear Age\", and \"Nuclear Wastelands\", a comprehensive study of the health and environmental impact of the global nuclear weapons production complex.\n\nIn October 2007, IPPNW and the Royal Society of Medicine co-sponsored a major conference in London to review the current state of knowledge about nuclear weapons effects. Scientific data about the global climate effects of regional nuclear war presented at that conference became the basis of an IPPNW project on “nuclear famine.\" The climate findings and an updated summary of the medical consequences of nuclear war are available in an IPPNW publication, \"Zero Is the Only Option: Four Medical and Environmental Cases for Eradicating Nuclear Weapons\".\n\nIn recent years, IPPNW and its affiliates have drawn new attention to the health and environmental effects of uranium mining and processing, conducting community health surveys in India and challenging Australia’s plans to ramp up its uranium export industry. In 2010, the federation's international council passed a resolution calling for a global ban on uranium mining because of the dangers it poses to health and the environment.\n\nIPPNW has also studied a nuclear danger in the medical profession’s own backyard—the use of highly enriched uranium in reactors that produce medical isotopes—and has campaigned for the conversion of those vulnerable reactors to non-weapons-grade uranium.\n\nIPPNW launched the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (ICAN) in 2007, and is now the lead medical NGO campaigning for a global treaty to ban and eliminate nuclear weapons, along with more than 200 humanitarian, environmental, human rights, peace and development organizations in more than 80 countries. ICAN went on to receive the 2017 Nobel Prize for peace.\n\nIn the 1990s, IPPNW expanded its scope to address the continuum of armed violence that undermines health and security. IPPNW is committed to ending war and to addressing the causes of armed conflict from a public health perspective. The global campaign to ban landmines marked IPPNW’s first major entry into the non-nuclear arena. The federation became engaged in addressing small arms violence in 2001 when it launched Aiming for Prevention, which has since broadened to include the public health dimensions of all types of armed violence. Aiming for Prevention has been driven by IPPNW affiliates from the global South — primarily Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, and South Asia — whose members live and work in areas where armed violence is a constant threat and consumes significant portions of health care budgets.\n\nAs part of Aiming for Prevention, IPPNW participated in a broad-based global coalition of civil society organizations that campaigned successfully for passage of the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT). IPPNW is an active participant in the World Health Organization's Violence Prevention Alliance, and coordinates the \"International Action Network on Small Arms\" (IANSA) Public Health Network.\n\nContinuing medical education courses and trainings in the emerging field of Peace through Health have been developed by IPPNW affiliates with university affiliations in Norway, Denmark, the UK, and Canada. IPPNW supports and encourages academic work to advance the understanding of the interconnections between peace and health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2216798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2216798", "title": "Jenkins activity survey", "text": "Jenkins activity survey\n\nThe Jenkins Activity Survey (JAS) is one of the most widely used methods of assessing Type A behavior. The Jenkins Activity Survey is a psychometric survey of behavior and attitude designed to identify persons showing signs of Type A behavior. The test is multiple choice and self-administered. It was published in 1974 by C. David Jenkins, Stephen Zyzanski, and Ray Rosenman. The terms Type A and Type B personality were originally described in the work of Rosenman and Friedman in 1959.\n\nThe Jenkins Activity Survey was developed in an attempt to duplicate the clinical assessment of the Type A behavior pattern by employing an objective psychometric procedure. Individuals displaying a Type A behavior pattern are characterized by extremes of competitiveness, striving for achievement and personal recognition, aggressiveness, haste, impatience, explosiveness and loudness in speech, characteristics which the JAS attempts to measure.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917748", "title": "List of IARC Group 2B carcinogens", "text": "List of IARC Group 2B carcinogens\n\nSubstances, mixtures and exposure circumstances in this list have been classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) as \"Group 2B: The agent (mixture) is \"possibly carcinogenic to humans\". The exposure circumstance entails exposures that are possibly carcinogenic to humans.\" This category is used for agents, mixtures and exposure circumstances for which there is limited evidence of carcinogenicity in humans and less than sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals. It may also be used when there is inadequate evidence of carcinogenicity in humans but there is sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals. In some instances, an agent, mixture or exposure circumstance for which there is inadequate evidence of carcinogenicity in humans but limited evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals together with supporting evidence from other relevant data may be placed in this group. \nFurther details can be found in the preamble to the IARC Monographs.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39700685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39700685", "title": "MDP syndrome", "text": "MDP syndrome\n\nMDP syndrome, also known as mandibular dysplasia with deafness and progeroid features, is an extremely rare metabolic disorder that prevents fatty tissue from being stored underneath the skin. It is only known to affect a very small number of people worldwide (less than 10 cases have been diagnosed as of December 2014). Recent research has suggested that it may be caused by an abnormality of the POLD1 gene on chromosome 19, which causes an enzyme crucial to DNA replication to be defective.\n\n\nInitially all people that have been identified with this syndrome have an identical genetic change, an inframe single codon deletion in POLD1 resulting in a loss of serine at position 605. The POLD1 gene is expressed in all cells and the particular change seen in most patients results in loss of DNA polymerase activity but only mildly impairs the proof reading exonuclease activity. In 2014 a second genetic change was reported in an Italian patient, a novel heterozygous mutation in exon 13 (R507C).\n\nMost cases identified to date have been caused by a spontaneous genetic change (so the parents of the individual are unaffected).\nThe diagnosis of MDP syndrome is suggested by the clinical features. It can be confirmed by finding a mutation in the POLD1 gene, a service offered by the molecular genetics team at the Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Foundation Trust / Exeter University who originally discovered the genetic cause.\n\nAppearance at birth and during the early years is normal but features become more prominent during later childhood prior to puberty. The main issues appear to be lipodystrophy (see below) and slow growth of cartilage and ligaments. The slow growth of cartilage and ligaments results in a small nose, small mandible (jaw), small ears and tightening of ligaments in the limbs. A small larynx (due to\nthe reduced growth of cartilage) can mean the voice is likely to remain high pitched (even in boys after puberty).\n\nA major feature is lipodystrophy (a reduction in fat under the skin). The characteristic changes in facial appearance occur from the loss of fat from the cheeks, and around the eyes. Dry eyes and the failure to close eyes during sleep can be a feature due to the loss of fat around the eyes (rather than any excessive prominence of the eyeballs). Limbs appear very thin due to lack of fat storage and also reduced muscle mass. There is a large amount of fat within the abdominal cavity which, can be particularly marked in the liver (but not always) and surrounds the other organs. A major result of the lipodystrophy in some people is severe insulin resistance so insulin does not work very well leading to diabetes and high triglyceride levels in the blood. The effect of insulin resistance can be variable and may relate to progression of the lipodystrophy or may reflect variation between individuals.\n\nThe skin has a lack of fat and fibrosis. These in turn result in the tight skin on the face and limbs. One direct feature of the lipodystrophy is that the skin is fragile and there is not the protection normally provided by fat under the skin.\n\nAs fat cannot be stored under the skin it is important to have a healthy diet without excess fat. Often due to failure to thrive or lack of subcutaneous fat there may have been encouragement to add supplements or fat to the diet however this will not result in any increase in fat under the skin and can easily result in it going into tissues such as the liver or kidney where it is not desired. In people with moderate / severe lipodystrophy a low fat diet would be recommended but in those where the lipodystrophy has not progressed (for example in younger children) a healthy relatively low fat diet may be sufficient. The fat and muscle reduction is not the result of dietary insufficiency and cannot be treated with dietary measures. Apart from diet the other thing that is important is exercise which should be encouraged and will make insulin work more effectively.\n\nIn those who have not developed diabetes it is recommended fasting insulin, triglycerides, glucose and HbA1c should be measured annually to monitor insulin resistance and blood glucose.\n\nIn those with diabetes it is suggested using Metformin in doses of at least 2g/day as it decreases insulin resistance and improves insulin sensitivity, following appropriate clinical consultation.\n\nThe thin skin means if there is trauma there should be rapid attention to any wounds to avoid infection and help primary healing as there can be problems with skin ulcers.\n\nSome males have had undescended testes but in all cases, whether or not this was corrected, they have hypogonadism (reduced function of the testes) and many may be infertile due to inadequate testicular development. In females normal periods have been observed.\n\nLow testosterone will require testosterone replacement. In peri-pubertal males, adequate testosterone replacement is required for its anabolic affects such as growth and also the induction of puberty with high doses. This needs to be coordinated with growth hormone replacement (if given) to avoid early closure of the epitheses (ends of the bones) which would reduce height.\n\nAlthough in the original clinical description short stature was included in the characteristics of MDP syndrome, looking at the data closely it showed that many patients were well within the normal range. If growth is of concern growth hormone therapy could be considered and coordinated with testosterone replacement where appropriate.\n\nDeafness is a feature of MDP syndrome as a result of the nerves not working well and people often have difficulty getting hearing aids because of the small size of their ears. Digital hearing aids can be helpful and audiometry follow up will be needed.\n\nThere may be different problems associated with MDP syndrome in the feet. The lack of subcutaneous fat means that there is direct pressure on the skin resulting in callus (hard skin) on the heels and also the weight-bearing parts of the forefoot. This is best managed by trying to find insoles to support the foot but it’s difficult to avoid completely. There is no approach that will increase the subcutaneous fat. The second feature is clawed toes as a result of contraction of the long extender tendons. The contractured constrictions can get worse over time. It is worth considering a physiotherapy referral with an aim to establish exercises to try to keep the tendons stretched if possible.\n\nThe failure of growth of the mandible (lower jaw) can rapidly result in dental overcrowding. In this case it is best to remove teeth early rather than hoping that there will be mandibular (lower jaw) growth. Overcrowding can result in the teeth being severely displaced and again it is best to act early because later correction orthodontically can be extremely difficult.\n\nMany people with MDP syndrome are high achievers intellectually following careers in law, medicine and computing. A crucial point is that they do not have progeria and there is no evidence of accelerated intellectual decline with age in these patients. Equally life expectancy has not been shown to be reduced. Patients of 65 have been described in the literature and none of the patients are known to have malignancy. Therefore, there are many crucial differences with progeria and the name of progeroid in the title is confusing as this really refers to the lack of fat in the face and taut skin and not any intellectual or other age associated features.\n\nIt is helpful to co-ordinate clinical care as much as possible, this may be managed best by a consultant endocrinologist as the most active management is going to relate to the management of lipodystrophy, insulin resistance, diabetes and testosterone replacement therapy and growth hormone replacement if required. Other local specialists could provide care when this is needed.\n\nThe condition was diagnosed by researchers at the University of Exeter Medical School and Molecular Genetics Department at the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital.\n\nBritish para-cyclist Tom Staniford is reported to suffer from this condition.\n\n"}
{"id": "17220303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17220303", "title": "Mary Ellen Wilson", "text": "Mary Ellen Wilson\n\nMary Ellen Wilson (March, 1864 – October 30, 1956) or sometimes Mary Ellen McCormack was an American whose case of child abuse led to the creation of the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. At the age of eight, she was severely abused by her foster parents, Francis and Mary Connolly. Because no laws protected children from abuse at the time, statutes against cruelty to animals were invoked to remove her from the home. Hers was the first recorded case of child abuse in the United States.\n\nMary Ellen was born March, 1864 to Frances and Thomas Wilson of Hell’s Kitchen in New York City. Following Thomas' death in the Civil War, Frances had to take a job and was no longer able to stay at home to raise her infant daughter. She boarded her daughter, a common practice at the time, with a woman named Mary Score. When Frances Wilson's financial situation worsened, she began to miss her visitation dates with her daughter and was no longer able to make child care payments to Score. Score turned Mary Ellen, now almost two, in to the New York City Department of Charities.\n\nThe Department placed Mary Ellen under the care of Thomas and Mary McCormack. (Mary went on to marry Francis Connolly following Thomas' death.) According to Mary Connolly's court testimony, Thomas McCormack, Mary Connolly's first husband, claimed to be Mary Ellen Wilson's biological father. The Department of Charities placed Mary Ellen into the McCormacks' care illegally, without the proper papers or receipts served. Thomas McCormack signed an \"indenture\" agreement upon retrieving Mary Ellen from the Department of Charities' care, but did not explain his or his wife's relationship with the child to the Commissioner of Charities and Correction. The McCormacks were required to report the child's condition annually to the Department, but, according to Mary Connolly's later court testimony, this only occurred once or twice during Mary Ellen's stay.\n\nAfter Mary Ellen came into the McCormacks' care, Thomas McCormack died. Mary McCormack married Francis Connolly, moving herself and Mary Ellen to an apartment on West 41st Street. It was at this address that neighbors first became aware of young Mary Ellen's mistreatment. Her foster mother forced her to do heavy labor, repeatedly beat, burned and cut the child, and locked her in a closet. When the Connollys moved to a new address, one of the concerned neighbors from their 41st Street apartment asked Etta Angell Wheeler, a Methodist missionary who worked in the area, to check in on the child. Under the pretext of asking Mrs. Connolly's help in caring for Connolly's new neighbor, the chronically ill and home-bound Mary Smitt, Wheeler gained access to the Connollys' apartment to witness Mary Ellen's state for herself. When Ms. Wheeler saw evidence of severe physical abuse, malnourishment, and neglect in Mary Ellen's condition - she was seen barefoot in December for example - Wheeler began to research legal options to redress the abuse and protect the young girl. After finding the local authorities reluctant to act upon the child cruelty laws currently in place, Wheeler turned to a local advocate for the animal humane movement and the founder of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Henry Bergh. With the help of neighbors' testimony, Wheeler and Bergh successfully removed Mary Ellen from the Connolly home and took Mary Connolly to trial.\n\nElbridge Thomas Gerry of American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals took her case to the New York State Supreme Court in 1874. At the time of the trial Mary Ellen was 10 years of age.\n\nThe deliberate cruelties and deprivations inflicted on Mary Ellen Wilson by her adopted parents included the following:\n\nThe child testified in court regarding the abuse she had suffered, and afterward – on April 10, 1874 – she said:\n\nMrs. Connolly was sentenced to jail for one year. That year the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children was founded, the first organization of its kind.\n\nFollowing the conviction of Mary Connolly, Mary Ellen was initially placed in a juvenile home, before Etta Wheeler and her relatives successfully obtained custody of her. Mary Ellen named her daughter, Etta, after Etta Wheeler.\n\nIn 1888 at age 24, Mary Ellen married Lewis Schutt. They had two children together. Schutt had three children from his previous marriage, and they later adopted an orphaned girl. Mary Ellen died in 1956, at 92.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1188531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1188531", "title": "Medical model of disability", "text": "Medical model of disability\n\nThe medical model of disability, or medical model, arose from the biomedical perception of disability. This model links a disability diagnosis to an individual's physical body. The model supposes that this disability may reduce the individual's quality of life and the aim is, with medical intervention, this disability will be diminished or corrected.\n\nThe medical model focuses on curing or managing illness or disability. By extension, the medical model supposes a \"compassionate\" or just society invests resources in health care and related services in an attempt to cure or manage disabilities \"medically\". This is in an aim to expand functionality and/or improve functioning, and to allow disabled persons a more \"normal\" life. The medical profession's responsibility and potential in this area is seen as central.\n\nBefore the introduction of the biomedical model, patients relaying their narratives to the doctors was paramount. Through these narratives and developing an intimate relationship with the patients, the doctors would develop treatment plans in a time when diagnostic and treatment options were limited. This could particularly be illustrated with aristocratic doctors treating the elite during the 17th and 18th century.\n\nThe reliance of doctors on the narratives of patients diminished with the growth of bio-medicine.\n\nIn 1980, the World Health Organization (WHO) introduced a framework for working with disability, publishing the \"International Classification of Impairments, Disabilities and Handicaps.\" The framework proposed to approach disability by using the terms Impairment, Handicap and Disability.\n\nWhile personal narrative is present in interpersonal interactions, and particularly dominant in Western Culture, personal narrative during interactions with medical personnel is reduced to relaying information about specific symptoms of the disability to medical professionals. The medical professionals then interpret the information provided about the disability by the patient to determine a diagnosis, which likely will be linked to biological causes.The medical professionals now define what is \"normal\" and what is \"abnormal\" in terms of biology and disability.\n\nIn some countries, the medical model of disability has influenced legislation and policy pertaining to persons with disabilities on a national level.\n\nThe International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF), published in 2001, defines disability as an umbrella term for impairments, activity limitations and participation restrictions. Disability is the interaction between individuals with a health condition (such as cerebral palsy, Down syndrome and depression) and personal and environmental factors (such as negative attitudes, inaccessible transportation and public buildings, and limited social supports). \n\nThe altered language and words used show a marked change in emphasis from talking in terms of disease or impairment to talking in terms of levels of health and functioning. It takes into account the social aspects of disability and does not see disability only as a 'medical' or 'biological' dysfunction. That change is consistent with widespread acceptance of the social model of disability.\n\nThe medical model of disability focuses on the individual's limitations and ways to reduce those impairments or using adaptive technology to adapt them to society. Current definitions of disability accept biomedical assistance but focus more on factors causing environmental and social exclusion. Uncritical reliance on the medical model produces unwanted consequences.\n\nAmong advocates of disability rights, who tend to subscribe to the social model instead, the medical model of disability is often cited as the basis of an unintended social degradation of disabled people; further, resources are seen as excessively misdirected towards an almost-exclusively medical focus when those same resources could be used towards things like universal design and societal inclusionary practices. This includes the monetary and the societal costs and benefits of various interventions, be they medical, surgical, social or occupational, from prosthetics, drug-based and other \"cures\", and medical tests such as genetic screening or preimplantation genetic diagnosis. Often, a medical model of disability is used to justify large investment in these procedures, technologies and research, when adaptation of the disabled person's environment might ultimately be more beneficial to the society at large, as well as financially cheaper and physically more attainable.\n\nAlso, some disability rights groups see the medical model of disability as a civil rights issue and criticise charitable organizations or medical initiatives that use it in their portrayal of disabled people, because it promotes a pitiable, essentially negative, largely disempowered image of people with disabilities rather than casting disability as a political, social and environmental problem (see also the political slogan \"Piss On Pity\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47502983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47502983", "title": "Membrane steroid receptor", "text": "Membrane steroid receptor\n\nMembrane steroid receptors (mSRs), also called extranuclear steroid receptors, are a class of cell surface receptors activated by endogenous steroids that mediate rapid, non-genomic signaling via modulation of intracellular signaling cascades. mSRs are another means besides classical nuclear steroid hormone receptors (SHRs) for steroids to mediate their biological effects. SHRs can produce slow genomic responses or rapid, non-genomic responses in the case of mSRs.\n\nKnown groups of mSRs include:\n\n"}
{"id": "50262926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50262926", "title": "Muso Health", "text": "Muso Health\n\nMuso is a 501c3 global health organization based in Mali. Created in 2005, by a group of Malian and American collaborators, including the following still active team leaders Dr. Djoumé Diakité, Dr. Fousseni Traoré, Moise Samaké, Dr. Jessica Beckerman, and Dr. Ari Johnson, of San Francisco General Hospital. Muso has developed a proactive Community Case Management (Pro-CCM) healthcare delivery model, intended to reduce child mortality and improve early access to care.\n\nAs a result of this model, Muso achieved a ten-fold reduction in child mortality in their site of intervention in Yirimadjo, Mali, between 2008-2013, as documented in a 2013 study by researchers at Harvard, the University of California San Francisco, and Mali’s Ministry of Health.\n\nMuso developed a three-step Pro-CCM healthcare system designed to reduce child mortality.\n\nThe steps are:\n\n\nIn 2013, the Muso Pro-CCM model was tested in a study by Harvard, the University of California San Francisco, and the Malian Ministry of Health. The study team conducted a randomized household cross- sectional survey in Muso communities at baseline, 12, 24, and 36 months.\n\nOutcomes were defined as the percentage of children initiating an effective antimalarial within 24 hours of symptom onset, the percentage of children reported to be febrile within the previous two weeks, and the under-five child mortality rate. After three years of the intervention, the hazard of under-five mortality in the intervention area was one tenth that of baseline (HR 0.10, p<0.0001). The prevalence of febrile illness among children under five was significantly lower, from 38.2% at baseline to 23.3% in 2011 (PR = 0.61, p = 0.0009). The percentage of children starting an effective antimalarial within 24 hours of symptom onset was nearly twice that reported at baseline (PR = 1.89, p = 0.0195).\n\nThe study concluded that community health workers can save many lives, even with limited training. It is not clear, however, the extent to which the model can be replicated as it received funding from outside sources. In addition, basic infrastructure, like water delivery, was added, and residents received free medical care.\n\nMuso and the Ministry of Health committed to testing this model at scale, serving 250,000 people across nine sites in Mali. Along with this scale-up, a randomized controlled trial will measure the impact of proactive care on universal health coverage and child survival.\n\nMuso has received funding from Mulago Foundation, Jasmine Social Investments, Draper Richards Kaplan Foundation, and Child Relief International, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "4249406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4249406", "title": "NHS Counter Fraud and Security Management Service Division", "text": "NHS Counter Fraud and Security Management Service Division\n\nThe Counter Fraud and Security Management Division protects the staff, assets and resources of the National Health Service in England and Wales. Since 1 April 2006 it has been a division of the NHS Business Services Authority, a special health authority of the Department of Health of the United Kingdom. It was formerly known as the NHS Counter Fraud and Security Management Service (NHS CFSMS).\n\nThe NHS CFSMS comprises the NHS Security Management Service (NHS SMS) which develops strategy for improving security in the NHS, and the NHS Counter Fraud Service (NHS CFS), which implements policy on protecting NHS resources from fraud.\n\nThe NHS Counter Fraud Service was set up in 1998 as part of the Department of Health under the leadership of Jim Gee. The organisation set about discovering the scale of fraud against the NHS, what types of crime were involved and how much money might be being lost to the NHS. The next step was to set up an operational department to investigate cases of fraud and help the police and Crown Prosecution Service bring them to justice.\n\nIt was discovered that fraud was being carried out by patients, NHS staff and professionals and contractors. Examples included patients using false identities to gain large numbers of prescriptions for drugs, NHS staff members claiming for shifts they had not done, managers inflating expenses and contractors such as opticians and dentists claiming for services they had not provided.\n\nFrom 1999-2006 it was estimated that counter fraud work in the NHS benefited the public purse by £811 million. This could pay for 53,000 kidney transplants or 35,000 nurses for a year.\n\nSuccesses include the investigations into a General practitioner who did private work while off sick from the NHS, who was jailed for 12 months, a manager at a major hospital trust who was jailed for four years for creating fake employees in order to claim their salaries and a bogus psychiatrist who faked his qualifications, jailed for ten years. He lived a lavish lifestyle which included a 5 bedroom house, 30 Armani suits and a Ferrari. Under controversial plans, he was allowed back on duty and maintain the organisations £59 million budget.\n\nThe NHS Counter Fraud Service has also helped the NHS to fraud proof its systems leading to much lower rates of fraud than occurred in the past.\n\nThe NHS Security Management Service was set up alongside the NHS Counter Fraud Service to build on the successes of the latter by extending the remit to security issues. As part of a new Special Health Authority the NHS SMS has begun to introduce the first ever national strategy for security in the NHS, which involves measures to protect staff in England against violence and abuse, prevent theft and damage to equipment and property, ensure the security of drugs and medicines and protect maternity and paediatric units.\n\nThe NHS SMS set about ensuring that every health body appointed a Local Security Management Specialist, trained and accredited by the NHS SMS, so that health bodies would be able to focus on the issues that affected them locally. In addition, the NHS SMS set up a Legal Protection Unit which provides cost effective legal advice to the NHS on pursuing sanctions against offenders and if necessary can pursue prosecutions. In 2004-2006, the rate of prosecution for people who assault NHS staff had gone up to 16 times what it had been in 2002-2003 (850 against 51), and increased again to 869 in 2006-2007.\n\nIn November 2007 it was revealed that there had been 55,709 physical assaults against NHS staff in England, 2,986 fewer than 2005-2006 and 4,586 fewer than 2004-2005.\n\nIn April 2004, the NHS SMS launched the biggest ever training programme in NHS history. Conflict Resolution Training aims to train 750,000 frontline NHS staff members in techniques to manage and prevent violence, looking at methods of communication, cultural awareness, environment and how to de-escalate violent situations as well as how to avoid being physically assaulted if de-escalation fails.\n\nThe NHS SMS has also contributed to trials of technology to help protect NHS staff and assets. This includes assisting with the Safer Hospitals Programme to develop environments which can help to reduce violence, and trialling a device for lone workers which will enable them to discreetly call for help to a response centre if in danger and give details as to their location, as well as recording evidence that can be used to prosecute offenders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17557366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17557366", "title": "National Association of Sessional GPs", "text": "National Association of Sessional GPs\n\nThe National Association of Sessional GPs (NASGP) was founded 1997 by a group of sessional GPs (independent general practitioners) with the aim of representing all fully qualified GPs working as locums, assistants, salaried GPs, returners and retainers.\n\nThe organisation has a chairman and a business manager, and publishes \"The Sessional GP\", a bimonthly magazine on topics relating to sessional GPs. It also acts as an umbrella organisation for approximately 100 local sessional GP groups and GP locum chambers.\n\nIn 2015, the NASGP launched AppraisalAid, which is an online suite of information and templates specifically aimed at an enabling freelance GP locums to keep a record and record their reflections in preparation for their annual NHS appraisal. In 2016, the NASGP launched two new resources aimed at reducing waste in the National Health Service. The first was the online Standardised Practice Information Portal (Spip), replacing its paper predecessor (Standardised Practice Induction Pack), followed in autumn 2016 by the NASGP's online locum GP invoicing and booking system.\n\nSpip claims to be an 'information air traffic control system' for GP practices, and has been reported on by the Care Quality Commission and the Medical Protection Society. Using Spip, a GP practice manager can add up to 500 items of local, practice specific information and the disseminate it to all their staff, at the same time enabling some of them to edit and add information, thus creating a crowdsourced and interactive document.\n\nWith an estimated 17,000 locum GPs working in the UK, most of them working independently, the NASGP has recognised the complexity of individuals managing their workload by creating a sophisticated online platform to easily manage their workload. In particular, locums wishing to make use of the NHS superannuation scheme must use relatively complex claim forms called Locum A forms (for each individual practice every month) and a monthly Locum B form as a record of all superannuable income from that month.\n\nThe group represents sessional GPs at a national level, provides support for members and for local sessional GP groups and chambers. The NASGP is involved in lobbying other medical organisations to ensure equitable representation of sessional GPs.\n"}
{"id": "22117605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22117605", "title": "National Institute of Parasitic Diseases", "text": "National Institute of Parasitic Diseases\n\nThe National Institute of Parasitic Diseases (Shanghai), China) is an institution within the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, which contains:\n\n\nThe precursor of National Institute of Parasitic Diseases is the East China Branch of the National Institute of Health, established in Nanjing in 1950. And then it was part of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences in 1956.\n"}
{"id": "3211520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3211520", "title": "Nursing agency", "text": "Nursing agency\n\nA Nursing Agency (also known as Nurses Agency or Nurses Registry) is a business that provides nurses and usually health care assistants (such as Certified Nursing Assistants) to people who need the services of healthcare professionals. Nurses are normally engaged by the agency on temporary contracts and make themselves available for hire by hospitals, care homes and other providers of care for help during busy periods or to cover for staff absences. Some nurses may be seconded to private clients who choose to receive their nursing care within their own homes.\n\nAs with other staffing agencies, a large amount of capital is necessary to operate, since nurses must be paid by the registry as often as they work, but the hospital or other institution utilizing the services of the registry might not pay the registry until several months after the work has been done. Profit margins for this type of business go between 4% and 70%.\n\nNurse staffing is a seasonal business. During holidays, hospitals often pay their staff overtime pay, and thus the need for external staffing services is diminished. An opposite effect is felt during summer time vacations, when staff employees at hospitals take time off and the services of the nurse registry are in greater need.\n\nNurse staffing is very demanding and requires a high degree of care and responsibility. There are many liability issues which must be kept in mind. Claims of negligence and inappropriate actions by the registry's nurses may result in lawsuits over bodily injury. Malpractice insurance must be carried by the registry.\n\nAs a result of these inherent pitfalls and the progress of web technologies, many nurse staffing agencies evolved to online job boards, which would allow them to match registrered nurse candidates with employers' nursing jobs. The web has transformed the nurse staffing industry, making it a more real-time process. Also, by offering direct contact between the candidates and employers, online staffing sites eliminate much of the liability involved in traditional nurse staffing.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there are two sources of supplementary nurses - nurse banks and nursing agencies. The former provides nurses paid on as \"hours as required\" basis and is often contracted to fill planned or unplanned shortfalls in staffing. Agency nurses, on the other hand, are employed through third-party agencies. Recent studies show that it has become common practice in the United Kingdom to use bank and agency nurses to fill vacant shifts in hospitals that cannot be filled by permanent staff. By 2002 to 2003, it was already reported that the National Health Service has spent £628 million on agency nursing. There are sources that cite how nurses employed through agencies tend to enjoy greater rewards and higher pay than those with institutional contracts.\n\nEnglish nursing agencies are regulated by the Commission for Social Care Inspection.\n\nIn the United States, they are also called nurse registries. It is a staffing agency which may provide per diem or locum tenens nursing personnel to hospitals, medical offices and individuals. They are generally small, privately owned businesses. They are also known as \"nursing pools\" and \"nursing staffing agencies\". A Nursing Registry as defined (for example) in Florida Statutes 400.462: \"Nurse registry\" means any person that procures, offers, promises, or attempts to secure health-care-related contracts for registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, certified nursing assistants, home health aides, companions, or homemakers, who are compensated by fees as independent contractors, including, but not limited to, contracts for the provision of services to patients and contracts to provide private duty or staffing services to health care facilities licensed under chapter 395, this chapter, or chapter 429 or other business entities.\n\nThe recent expansion of nursing work in America has led to the increased employment of foreign-born nurses, which account for one-third of the growth of the nursing labor market from 2001 to 2008 and 16 percent of the total U.S. nursing workforce by 2008. International recruiting can be costly for hospitals and, to save money, agencies are contracted and paid flat fee for each nurse employed. The bulk of recruited nurses come from the Philippines and Canada.\n\nIn Singapore, nursing registry is controlled by Singapore Nursing Board who categorized the nurses into Registered Nurse and Enrolled Nurse.\n\n"}
{"id": "23505166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23505166", "title": "Obesity in New Zealand", "text": "Obesity in New Zealand\n\nObesity in New Zealand has become an important national health concern in recent years, with high numbers of people afflicted in every age and ethnic group.\n\nAs of June 2008, 26.5% of New Zealanders are obese, a number only surpassed in the English-speaking world by the United States.\n\nThe New Zealand Ministry of Health Survey of 2016/17 found that 86% of adults (aged 15 and over) are overweight (BMI between 25.0 and 29.9),<ref name=\"MOS Obesity 2016/17\"></ref> with a further 3.2 million people (75%) being obese (BMI over 30.0), up from 29% in 2011/12.\n\nOut of a total estimated population of 4.3 million in 2008, the Ministry's studies show that roughly 1.13 million New Zealand adults were overweight, with an extra 826,000 obese. The 2008 figures, which represent samples from 2006 and 2007, show that 25% of New Zealand adults are obese, a slight increase from 2002 and 2003 (24%) but a wide rise from 1997 (19%).\n\nObesity is more prevalent in New Zealand females from age 5 until the age of 34, at which time the males overtake the females in terms of percentage. After essentially coming in at a dead heat in the 55 to 64 bracket, female obesity becomes a higher risk for 65- to 74-year-olds than it does for males, only to switch odds again after 75.\n\nThe 2017 study showed that adults in deprived areas are 1.5 times more likely to become obese than those in well-off areas.\n\nAs of 2017, 21% of children (aged 2–12) are overweight, with a further 100,000 (12.3%) being obese. The child obesity rate has not changed significantly since 2011/12 (when it was 10.7%), although it has increased since 2006/07 (8.4%).\n\nIn 2004, over 30 percent of children in New Zealand were classified as overweight. In the 2008 figures, 8.3% of children ages 5 to 14 in New Zealand were classified as obese. While more numerous than the same demographic in Australia (between 5 and 6%), the number of obese children actually declined from a record high of 9% set in 2002. Starting in 2006, the government has worked to cut high-fat foods and high sugar drinks from school cafeterias, and also to curb advertising for junk food during daytime television hours, these moves are being credited with slowing the rate of obesity in New Zealand, especially among the young.\n\nThe 2017 study showed that children in deprived areas are 2.5 times more likely to become obese than those in well-off areas.\n\nIn the 2008 report, adults of Māori and other Polynesian descent had a much higher rate of obesity than white New Zealanders. The rate for the Pacific peoples were nearly triple the white average, while Māori reported nearly double the white rate. As of 2017, 50% of Māori adults, 18% of Māori children, 69% of Polynesian adults, and 29% of Polynesian children are obese. In 2008, 65% of adult Pacific New Zealanders and 43% of adult Māori were obese, compared to 23% of white adults, and 12% of Asian New Zealanders were obese. Out of all the ethnic groups surveyed, only the Asians reported a large increase in obesity from the 2002 statistics.\n\n"}
{"id": "20632987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20632987", "title": "Pablo the Drug Mule Dog", "text": "Pablo the Drug Mule Dog\n\nPablo the Drug Mule Dog is the main character in a series of anti-cocaine television advertisements produced by the agency Mother for FRANK, the United Kingdom government's national anti-drug campaign. The origins of the name Pablo are rumoured to be named after Pablo Escobar who was head of the Medellin cartel.\n\nThe main advertisement of the campaign begins with Pablo in a cellar with a large gash the length of his chest, from which bags of cocaine are being removed. From this point, Pablo to sets out to discover, \"what's the big deal about coke?\". He encounters an armed dealer before talking with a few pushers and users in a disco. The shot then moves to the inside of a toilet, where a young man's nostril starts to bleed. The advert ends with Pablo using a payphone to talk to Frank.\n\nPablo, voiced by David Mitchell, has a wry sense of humour and manages to satirise not only the cocaine trade but also the advert itself, through quotes like \"I picked up the phone...\"somehow\"..and talked to Frank\" and \"Ever woken up with a huge gash in your stomach? I've had better mornings\". Elements of recreational cocaine use are ridiculed in the campaign's six adverts, from bleeding nostrils being likened to an anus to sob-stories from pound notes used to snort the drug (\"I hate being up his nostril!\").\n\nIndeed, the use of Pablo in the anti-drug campaign has been met with praise in the media and in the public eye, particularly for the large impact made without glamorising the drug trade. James Donaghy, writing for The Guardian said that \"The Drug Mule Dog advert for the government's FRANK drugs helpline is a special kind of brilliant\" and noted that \"In a Home Office survey of [teenage audiences], 83% thought the FRANK adverts were very or fairly effective...surely some kind of miracle.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27325068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27325068", "title": "Project SUNSHINE", "text": "Project SUNSHINE\n\nProject SUNSHINE was a series of research studies to ascertain the impact of radioactive fallout on the world's population. Commissioned jointly by the United States Atomic Energy Commission and USAF Project Rand, SUNSHINE sought to examine the long-term effects of nuclear radiation on the biosphere due to repeated nuclear detonations of increasing yield. With the conclusion from Project GABRIEL that radioactive isotope Sr-90 represented the most serious threat to human health from nuclear fallout, Project SUNSHINE sought to measure the global dispersion of Sr-90 by measuring its concentration in the tissues and bones of the dead. Of particular interest was tissue from the young, whose developing bones have the highest propensity to accumulate Sr-90 and thus the highest susceptibility to radiation damage. SUNSHINE elicited a great deal of controversy when it was revealed that many of the remains sampled were utilized without prior permission from the deceased or from relatives of the dead, which wasn't known until many years later.\n\nOn January 18, 1955 Dr. Willard Libby said that there was insufficient data regarding the effects of fallout due to a lack of human samples – especially samples taken from children – to analyze. Dr. Libby was quoted saying, \"I don't know how to get them, but I do say that it is a matter of prime importance to get them, and particularly in the young age group. So, human samples are often of prime importance, and if anybody knows how to do a good job of body snatching, they will really be serving their country.\" This led to over 1,500 samples being gathered, of which only 500 were analyzed. Many of the 1,500 sample cadavers were babies and young children, and were taken from countries from Australia to Europe, often without their parents' consent or knowledge. According to the investigation launched after a British newspaper reported that British scientists had obtained children’s bodies from various hospitals and shipped their body parts to the United States, a British mother had said that her stillborn baby's legs were removed by British doctors. She was forbidden to dress her daughter for her funeral in an attempt to prevent the mother from finding out what had happened.\n\nIn 1958, research for project SUNSHINE was brought to Belgium. Scientists started doing tests that were slightly different than those done previously in the United States and Europe, analyzing soils in agricultural regions instead of human bones. They headed in two main directions: environmental surveys and experimental research in natural and in controlled conditions. Their goal was to see the effect of Strontium-90 in the soils as well as to see how it transferred to the grass then to the grazing animals such as cows and sheep, the animals from which humans consume milk and meat. Researchers also looked for direct influences of strontium-90 by observing how well the contaminated grass and crops grew.\nIn a 1957 article, Dr. Whitlock, director of Health Education in the National Dairy Council, Chicago, Illinois, discussed the impact of strontium-90 in the cow milk consumed by humans, concluding that the effects of Sr-90 would not be detectably harmful to the general populace of the USA. \"From the foregoing information, it would seem we have a long way to go before the presence of Strontium-90 in milk and other foods can catch up with the amounts of radioactivity to which we have long been exposed through natural resources.\" Specifically referring to the natural radioactivity one is exposed to from potassium-40.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3064834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3064834", "title": "Religious views on suicide", "text": "Religious views on suicide\n\nThere are a variety of religious views on suicide.\n\nSuicides are frowned upon and buried in a separate part of a Jewish cemetery, and may not receive certain mourning rites. In actual practice, every means is used to excuse suicide—usually by determining either that the suicide itself proves that the person was not in their right mind, or that the person committing suicide must have repented after performing the deadly act but shortly before death occurred. Taking one's own life may be seen as a preferred alternative to committing certain cardinal sins. Most authorities hold that it is not permissible to hasten death to avoid pain if one is dying in any event, but the Talmud is somewhat unclear on the matter. However, assisting in suicide and requesting such assistance (thereby creating an accomplice to a sinful act) is forbidden, a violation of Leviticus 19:14 (\"Do not put a stumbling block before the blind\"), which is understood as prohibiting tempting to sin as well as literally setting up physical obstacles.\n\nMass suicide has had a long-standing history in Judaism where it was also acceptable to other alternatives. According to the 1st-century CE Jewish historian Josephus, Herod the Great fortified Masada between 37 and 31 BCE as a refuge for himself in the event of a revolt. In 66 CE, at the beginning of the First Jewish-Roman War, a group of Jewish extremists called the Sicarii overcame the Roman garrison of Masada. After the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE, additional members of the Sicarii and numerous Jewish families fled Jerusalem and settled in the mountaintop fortress, using it as a base for harassing the Romans. This 960-strong Jewish community at Masada collectively committed suicide in 73 CE rather than be conquered and enslaved by the Romans. Each man killed his wife and children, then the men drew lots and killed each other until the last man killed himself. In this way, only the last man committed the sin of suicide.\n\nNothing in the Christian Bible expressly prohibits suicide. In fact, the Bible does not condemn it and there are people in the bible who committed suicide. However, many Christian dogmas take an unfavorable view of suicide. Christianity also does not say that suicide is an unforgivable sin, although some other religions might. \n\nAccording to the theology of the Roman Catholic Church, suicide is objectively a sin which violates the commandment \"Thou shalt not kill\". However, the gravity and culpability for that sin changes based on the circumstances surrounding that sin. The Catechism of the Catholic Church, Paragraph 2283 states: \"We should not despair of the eternal salvation of persons who have taken their own lives. By ways known to him alone, God can provide the opportunity for salutary repentance. The Church prays for persons who have taken their own lives.\" Paragraph 2282 also points out that \"Grave psychological disturbances, anguish, or grave fear of hardship, suffering, or torture can diminish the responsibility of the one committing suicide.\" The Catholic Church used to deny suicides a Catholic funeral mass and burial. However, the Church has since changed this practice.\n\nConservative Protestants (Evangelicals, Charismatics, Pentecostals, and other denominations) have often argued that suicide is self-murder, and so anyone who commits it is sinning and it is the same as if the person murdered another human being. An additional view concerns the act of asking for salvation and accepting Jesus Christ as personal savior, which must be done prior to death. This is an important aspect of many Protestant denominations, and the problem with suicide is that once dead the individual is unable to accept salvation. The unpardonable sin then becomes not the suicide itself, but rather the refusal of the gift of salvation.\n\nSuicide is regarded generally within the Orthodox Tradition as a rejection of God's gift of physical life, a failure of stewardship, an act of despair, and a transgression of the sixth commandment, \"You shall not kill\" (Exodus 20:13). \nThe Orthodox Church normally denies a Christian burial to a person who has committed suicide. However, factors bearing on the particular case may become known to the priest who must share this information with the diocesan bishop; the bishop will consider the factors and make the decision concerning funeral services. The condemnation of suicide is reflected in the teachings of Clement of Alexandria, Lactantius, St. Augustine and others. The Orthodox Church shows compassion, however, on those who have taken their own life because of mental illness or severe emotional stress, when a physician can verify a condition of impaired rationality.\n\nSome other denominations of Christianity may not condemn those who commit suicide per se as committing a sin, even if suicide is not viewed favorably; factors such as motive, character, etc. are believed to be taken into account. One such example is The New Church. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), suicide is generally viewed as wrong, although the victim may not be considered responsible for the act depending on the circumstances.\n\nIn early Christian traditions, attitudes to suicide were somewhat varied. Among the martyrs at Antioch were three women who committed suicide to avoid rape. Although William Phipps gives this as an example of virtuous early Christian suicides, Augustine declared that although they may have done \"what was right in the sight of God,\" in his view the women \"should not have assumed that rape would necessarily have deprived them of their purity.\" (As purity was, to Augustine, a state of mind.) \n\nAll Muslim scholars and clerics consider suicide forbidden and similarly include suicide bombing as being equally forbidden. \n\nA verse in the Quran instructs: \n\nThe prohibition of suicide has also been recorded in statements of hadith (sayings of Muhammad); for example:\nNevertheless, the militant groups (and those that support them) that carry out \"martyrdom operations\" believe that their actions fulfil the obligation of jihad, (however, in the Quran there is no mention of suicide being an act of jihad) and some clerics support this view under certain circumstances.\n\nSimilarly, a minority of Muslims in Muslim-majority countries also express support for suicidal martyrdom to varying degrees.\n\nIn Buddhism, an individual's past acts are recognized to heavily influence what they experience in the present; present acts, in turn, become the background influence for future experiences (the doctrine of karma). Intentional actions by \"mind, body or speech\" have a reaction. This reaction, or repercussion, is the cause of conditions and differences one encounters in life.\n\nBuddhism teaches that all people experience substantial suffering (\"dukkha\"), in which suffering primarily originates from past negative deeds (karma), or may result as a natural process of the cycle of birth and death (\"samsara\"). Other reasons for the prevalence of suffering concern the concepts of impermanence and illusion (\"maya\"). Since everything is in a constant state of impermanence or flux, individuals experience dissatisfaction with the fleeting events of life. To break out of \"samsara\", Buddhism advocates the Noble Eightfold Path, and does not advocate suicide.\n\nIn Theravada Buddhism, for a monk to so much as praise death, including dwelling upon life's miseries or extolling stories of possibly blissful rebirth in a higher realm in a way that might condition the hearer to commit suicide or to pine away to death, is explicitly stated as a breach in one of highest vinaya codes, the prohibition against harming life, one that will result in automatic expulsion from Sangha.\n\nFor Buddhists, since the first precept is to refrain from the destruction of life, including one's self, suicide is seen as a negative act. If someone commits suicide in anger, he may be reborn in a sorrowful realm due to negative final thoughts. Nevertheless, Buddhism does not condemn suicide without exception, but rather observes that the reasons for suicide are often negative and thus counteract the path to enlightenment. With that said, in thousands of years of Buddhist history, very few exceptions are found.\n\nOne exception is the Buddhist tale of a \"bhikkhu\" named Vakkali who was extremely ill and racked with excruciating pain. He was said to have committed suicide when near death and upon making statements suggesting he had passed beyond desires (and thus perhaps an \"arhant\"). Self-euthanasia appears the context for his death.\n\nAnother exception is the story of a bhikkhu named Godhika, also beset by illness, who had repeatedly attained temporary liberation of mind but was unable to gain final liberation due to illness. While believing himself again in a state of temporary liberation it occurred to him to cut his own throat, in hopes thus to be reborn in a high realm. The Buddha was said to have stated:\n\nUltimately, tales like these could be read as implying past Buddhist beliefs that suicide might be acceptable in certain circumstances if it might lead to non-attachment. However, people who have achieved enlightenment do not commit suicide. In both above cases, the monks were not enlightened before committing suicide but they hoped to become enlightened following their deaths.\n\nThe Channovàda-sutra gives a third exceptional example of one who committed suicide and subsequently attained enlightenment.\n\nIn an entry in \"The Encyclopedia of Religion\", Marilyn J. Harran wrote the following:\nAnother exceptional example is the act of Sokushinbutsu in Japanese Buddhism, which involves asceticism to the point of death and entering mummification while alive. This is done to attain Buddha-nature in one's body.\n\nIn Hinduism, suicide is spiritually unacceptable. Generally, committing suicide is considered a violation of the code of \"ahimsa\" (non-violence) and therefore equally sinful as murdering another. Some scriptures state that to die by suicide (and any type of violent death) results in becoming a ghost, wandering earth until the time one would have otherwise died, had one not committed suicide. \n\nThe \"Mahabharata\" talks of suicide, stating those who commit it can never attain to regions (of heaven) that are blessed.\n\nHinduism accepts a man's right to end one's life through the non-violent practice of fasting to death, termed \"Prayopavesa\". But Prayopavesa is strictly restricted to old age yogis who have no desire or ambition left, and no responsibilities remaining in this life. Another example is dying in a battle to save one's honor.\n\n\"Sati\" or \"suttee\" is an obsolete funeral custom where a widow immolates herself on her husband's pyre or takes her own life in another fashion shortly after her husband's death.Some people in India have recently done the same, although it is officially banned.\n\nIn Jainism, suicide is regarded as the worst form of \"himsā\" (violence) and is not permitted. \"Ahimsā\" (nonviolence) is the fundamental doctrine of Jainism. There exists a Jain practice of fasting to death which is termed as \"Sallekhana\". According to the Jain text \"Purushartha Siddhyupaya\", when death is near, the vow of sallekhanā is observed by properly thinning the body and the passions. It also mentions that sallekhanā is not suicide since the person observing it is devoid of all passions like attachment.\n\nIn Wicca as well as numerous other Neopagan religions, there is no general consensus concerning suicide. Some view suicide as a violation of the sanctity of life, and a violation of the most fundamental of Wiccan laws, the Wiccan Rede. However, as Wicca teaches a belief in reincarnation instead of permanent rewards or punishments, many believe that suicides are reborn (like every one else) to endure the same circumstances in each subsequent lifetime until the capacity to cope with the circumstance develops.\n"}
{"id": "44897882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44897882", "title": "Roskilde Forsyning", "text": "Roskilde Forsyning\n\nRoskilde Forsyning is a public utility company based in Roskilde, Denmark. It is involved with the supply of drinking water and district heating as well as discharge and treatment of waste water. The current company is the result of a merger in 2000 and is fully owned by Roskilde Municipality. It has approximately 82,000 private and commercial customers.\n\nA municipal waterworks was inaugurated in 1880. On 6 December 1905, it was decided to build a local power station which was completed the following year. A wastewater treatment plant was inaugurated near the port in 1936. On 1 November 1963, the Rådmandshaven housing estate is the first buildings in Toskilde to employ distant heating.\n\nRoskilde Forsyning was established through the merger of the activities within electricity, water, district heating in 2000. In 2007, Sewage treatment was also merged with the company while the electricity production was sold to SEAS-NVE on 1 July 2009. The company was converted into an \"sktieselskab\" fully owned by Roskilde Municipality in 2010.\n\nRoskilde Forsyning supplies 10,000 m³ of drinking water per day to its customers using 550 km of water pipes. The water comes from one of its three waterworks: Haraldsborg and Ågerup Waterworks in Roskilde Municipality and Hornsherred Waterworks in Lejre Municipality.\n\nLikewise, Roskilde Forsyning daily removes, treats and disposes 23,100 m³ of wastewater from some 82,000 customers using 200 sewage pumping stations through almost 1000 km of managed sewerage pipes to five sewage treatment works.\n\nMost of the city of Roskilde has been served by district heating since the 1970s. The network of district heating distribution pipes has a total length of 286 km, serveing 50,000 customers. Roskilde Fyrsyning purchases the heating from VEKS (\"Vestegnens Kraft-Varmeselskab\"). It mainly comes from the Avedøre Power Station in Avedøre and from the Kara/Noveren waste-to-energy plant in Roskilde.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24028364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24028364", "title": "Saint John Eye Hospital Group", "text": "Saint John Eye Hospital Group\n\nThe St John of Jerusalem Eye Hospital Group is a charitable foundation which operates an ophthalmic hospital in Jerusalem and satellite eye care clinics and hospitals in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. It is a wholly owned corporate subsidiary of the Venerable Order of St John. The Hospital Group is based in Jerusalem and is the main provider of eye care in the Palestinian territories.\n\nThe original Hospital opened by The Order of St John in 1882 on the Bethlehem Road just south of the old city of Jerusalem. Queen Victoria granted the hospital a Royal Charter. Sir Edmund Lechmere, 3rd Baronet was one of the key figures in the establishment of the hospital. Lechmere and his wife were among the founders of Venerable Order of St John and had travelled several times to Jerusalem where they witnessed the need of its residents for eye care.\n\nDuring the First World War, the hospital was closed and its building was taken over by the Turkish Army, who used it to store ammunition. During the Battle of Jerusalem in 1917, the building was damaged. Following the establish of the British Mandate for Palestine, the architect Clifford Holliday was hired to renovate the building. Holliday also designed a new wing and the nearby St Andrew's Church that were both opened in 1930. The new wing was situated across the street, on the opposite side of Hebron Road. In the 1960s, after the hospital moved to its current location, the Clifford Holliday wing became an arts and crafts center (known as The Jerusalem House of Quality).\n\nIn the 1970s, the original hospital building was sold to a developer who wanted to demolish it and build a hotel in its place. Following a campaign by the Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel, the developer was barred from demolishing the building; instead he was permitted to build an extension to it, in keeping with the original style of the building, and to renovate and preserve the original structure. The hotel was opened in the 1980s and was named the Mt. Zion Hotel.\n\nFollowing the 1949 Armistice Agreements between Israel and Jordan, the valley just below the hospital building and Mount Zion were a designated as no-man's land. The hospital could not operate in this location anymore, since it became a Front line dividing both sides. Additionally, access to the building was cut off from what became East Jerusalem.\n\nBetween 1949 and 1960 the hospital operated from two houses owned by the Order in Muristan Street in the old city of Jerusalem.\n\nThe hospital's present building was opened in 1960 at Nashashibi Street in Sheikh Jarrah.\n\nThe main Jerusalem Hospital is an ISO and Joint Commission International accredited, general eye hospital. It has a 49-bed capacity and is staffed by both foreign and local specialist surgeons, doctors, paramedics, overseas medical volunteers and nurses. There is a large Outpatients Department and specialist retinal, corneal and pediatric services. The hospital also has a research unit.\n\nThe hospital attracts a substantial number of volunteer doctors from around the world who not only help care for the patients but also help in the teaching and training of the local doctors.\n\nIn 2005, in response to the growing movement restrictions in the West Bank, SJEHG set up a hospital in Hebron. The hospital provides cataract and laser eye surgery to treat diabetic retinopathy, and serves the 640,000 people that live in and around Hebron, including the semi-nomadic Bedouins of the Negev Desert. In November 2015 SJEHG moved into a new Hebron Hospital. In 2016 the hospital treated over 13,600 patients including performing over 500 major operations.\n\nIn 2007, SJEHG set up its clinic in Anabta. The St John Anabta Clinic treats over 20,000 patients every year. The clinic is easily accessible from the major areas of Nablus, Tulkarem and Jenin.\n\nSt John Gaza Hospital has been providing charitable eye care for the 1.8 million residents of Gaza since 1992. In 2008 the hospital saw just over 16,000 patients and performed no major operations. In 2016, saw over 27,000 outpatients and performed over 500 major operations.\n\nThe Mobile Outreach Programme was launched in 1980. It has two teams which travel across the West Bank every week. One Mobile Outreach team typically sees between 8,000 and 10,000 Palestinians each year. The Mobile Outreach Programme launched for the first time in Gaza in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2967631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2967631", "title": "Scleritis", "text": "Scleritis\n\nScleritis is a serious inflammatory disease that affects the white outer coating of the eye, known as the sclera. The disease is often contracted through association with other diseases of the body, such as granulomatosis with polyangiitis or rheumatoid arthritis. There are three types of scleritis: diffuse scleritis (the most common), nodular scleritis, and necrotizing scleritis (the most severe). Scleritis may be the first symptom of onset of connective tissue disease. \n\nEpiscleritis is inflammation of the episclera, a less serious condition that seldom develops into scleritis.\n\nSymptoms of scleritis include:\n\nThe pain of episcleritis is less severe than in scleritis. In hyperemia, there is a visible increase in the blood flow to the sclera (hyperaemia), which accounts for the redness of the eye. Unlike in conjunctivitis, this redness will not move with gentle pressure to the conjunctiva.\nSecondary keratitis or uveitis may occur with scleritis. The most severe complications are associated with necrotizing scleritis.\n\nMost of the time, scleritis is not caused by an infectious agent. Histopathological changes are that of a chronic granulomatous disorder, characterized by fibrinoid necrosis, infiltration by polymorphonuclear cells, lymphocytes, plasma cells and macrophages. The granuloma is surrounded by multinucleated epitheloid giant cells and new vessels, some of which may show evidence of vasculitis.\n\nScleritis is best detected by examining the sclera in daylight; retracting the lids helps determine the extent of involvement. Other aspects of the eye exam (i.e. visual acuity testing, slit lamp examination, etc.) may be normal. Scleritis may be differentiated from episcleritis by using phenylephrine or neosynephrine eye drops, which causes blanching of the blood vessels in episcleritis, but not in scleritis.\n\nAncillary tests CT scans, MRIs, and ultrasonographies can be helpful, but do not replace the physical examination.\nScleritis can be classified as anterior scleritis and posterior scleritis. Anterior scleritis is the most common variety, accounting for about 98% of the cases. It is of two types : Non-necrotising and necrotising. Non-necrotising scleritis is the most common, and is further classified into diffuse and nodular type based on morphology. Necrotising scleritis accounts for 13% of the cases. It can occur with or without inflammation.\n\nIn very severe cases of necrotizing scleritis, eye surgery must be performed to repair damaged corneal tissue in the eye and preserve the patient's vision. For less severe cases, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen, are prescribed for pain relief. Some patients also benefit from a course of Steroid eye drops such as Pred Forte Scleritis itself is treated with an oral medication containing corticosteroids and an eye solution. In some cases, antibiotics are prescribed. Simply using eye drops will not treat scleritis. In more aggressive cases of scleritis, chemotherapy (such as systemic immunosuppressive therapy with such drugs as cyclophosphamide or azathioprine) may be used to treat the disease. If not treated, scleritis can cause blindness.\n\nScleritis is not a common disease, although the exact prevalence and incidence are unknown. It is somewhat more common in women, and is most common in the fourth to sixth decades of life. \n"}
{"id": "36261620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36261620", "title": "Smoking in Costa Rica", "text": "Smoking in Costa Rica\n\nIn March 2012, Costa Rica passed one of the strictest smoking regulations in the world by a 45-2 vote in favor. This legislation has banned smoking in buses, taxis, trains and their terminals, work places, public buildings, restaurants, bars, casinos, and all enclosed public-access buildings, granting no exceptions (no separate “smoking areas” are permitted). It also bans smoking in outdoor recreational or educational areas such as parks, stadiums and university campuses. The bill requires cigarette packs to display text and photo warnings on at least 50 percent of packaging. \n\nIt introduced a tax of twenty colones per cigarette and prohibits any form of tobacco advertising, the use of misleading terms such as “light” or “milds” and the sale of small packages or individual cigarettes (setting a minimum of 20 cigarettes per package). Violators will be fined a minimum of 180.000 colones (US$355). Compliance with the law has been surprisingly high and smoking has disappeared in banned areas. Several programs and promotional campaigns have been started by the government and private institutions to promote quitting smoking, with very positive results.\n"}
{"id": "28273296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28273296", "title": "Smoking in Nigeria", "text": "Smoking in Nigeria\n\nSmoking in Nigeria is prohibited in public places and is punishable by a fine of not less than N200 and not exceeding N1000 or to imprisonment to a term of not less than one month and not exceeding two years or to both a fine and imprisonment.\n\nIn Nigeria, the anti-tobacco communities are at the forefront of ensuring smoke-free public places. Over 40 civil society groups, legal practitioners and public health advocates storm the Senate Hearing Room of the National Assembly Complex, Abuja, on July 21 and 22 to present their memorandum in support of the National Tobacco Control Bill, NTCB 2009.\n\nThe Nigeria National Tobacco Control Bill is a comprehensive law which when passed will regulate the manufacturing, advertising distribution and consumption of tobacco products in Nigeria.\n\nIt is a bill that is aimed at domesticating the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) because Nigeria is a party to that international convention. The key highlights of the bill are prohibition of smoking in public places; to include restaurant and bars, public transportation, schools, hospitals etc. A ban on all forms of direct and indirect advertising, prohibition of sales of cigarette 1000-meter radius of areas designated as non-smoking, mass awareness about the danger of smoking as well as the formation of committee that will guide government on the issue of tobacco control in the country.\n\nProhibition of the sale of tobacco products 1,000 meter radius places designated as non –smoking.\n\nThe NIGERIA NATIONAL TOBACCO CONTROL BILL blog, managed by ERA/FOEN features articles and news stories on the development and progress of this all important legislation. Environmental Rights Action (ERA) is a Nigerian advocacy non-governmental organisation founded on January 11, 1993 to deal with environmental human rights issues in Nigeria. ERA is the Nigerian chapter of Friends of the Earth International (FoEI), the world environmental justice federation campaigning to protect the environment and to create sustainable societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "44310442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44310442", "title": "Swach Vidyalaya", "text": "Swach Vidyalaya\n\nSwach Vidyalaya is an initiative of MHRDMinistry of Human Resource Development, Government of India to create a functional toilet in every school by 15 August 2015. Public sector units under 25 Ministries have pledged Rs. 400 crore for the campaign and private and public sector companies would be encouraged to build toilet blocks in schools.\n"}
{"id": "18198741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18198741", "title": "Walthard cell rest", "text": "Walthard cell rest\n\nWalthard cell rests; sometimes called Walthard cell nests, are a benign cluster of epithelial cells most commonly found in the connective tissue of the Fallopian tubes, but also seen in the mesovarium, mesosalpinx and ovarian hilus.\n\nThey appear as white/yellow cysts or nodules that can reach a size of 2 millimeters. They typically have elliptical nuclei with a long groove (along the major axis) - so called - \"coffee bean\" nuclei.\n\nIt has been suggested that these cell rests are the histogenetic origins of Brenner tumors, due to the histological similarity of the epithelium of Walthard cell rests and Brenner tumors to the urothelium of the lower urinary tract. Also, it has been proposed that Brenner tumors and Walthard cell rests signify urothelial differentiation within the female genital tract.\n\nThey are named after Swiss gynecologist Max Walthard (1867–1933), who provided a comprehensive description of them in 1903.\n\n"}
{"id": "39327248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39327248", "title": "Well-woman examination", "text": "Well-woman examination\n\nA well woman examination is an exam offered to women to review elements of their reproductive health. It is recommended once a year for most women. The exam includes a breast examination, a pelvic examination and a pap smear but may also include other procedures. Hospitals employ strict policies relating to the provision of consent by the patient, the availability of chaperones at the examination, and the absence of other parties.\n\nMost healthcare providers also allow the patient to specify if they have any preferences towards the examiner's gender.\n\nThe well-woman examination by a medical professional is recommended at least once a year to women over 18 years old and/or women who are sexually active. Its importance lies in identifying potential early health problems. The most important tests included in an examination is the breast exam, pelvic exam and the pap test, although some doctors consider other tests in the examination, including measurement of blood pressure, HIV testing, and other laboratory tests such as urinalysis, CBC (Complete blood count) and testing for other sexually transmitted diseases. The procedure is important also to detect certain cancers, especially breast and cervical cancer.\n\nThe breast examination begins with a visual inspection. With the patient in a prone or seated position, the medical professional will look at both breasts to check the color, symmetry, dimensions according to age, lean body mass, the physiological (pregnancy and lactation) and race, looking for abnormalities, such as bulges and shrinkage. One of these abnormalities is changed in the areola or nipple. If it is flattened or retracted (umbilicated), it is necessary to consider the possibility of a cancerous lesion which has caused the malformation.\n\nNext, the breasts are palpated, again with the patient lying or sitting. The patient has to lift the arm and put one hand behind her head. With this position, the entire gland is palpated. It is also important to examine the armpits, because of masses that may be found there. The test is executed pressing the gland with two or three fingers against the chest wall, making a radial route or by quadrants. The nipple is also squeezed check for secretions, such as secretion of milk (galactorrhea), serous, blood or purulent secretions. If a node is detected, it is necessary to determine its place, size, shape, edges, consistency and sensitivity.\n\nIn addition to the yearly check by a professional, women over the age of 18 should also perform this examination monthly.\nIt is important because regular and comprehensive examinations of the breasts can be used to find breast changes that occur between every clinical examination and detect early breast cancer. This auto examination should to be performed seven days after the onset of the menstrual period. If a woman finds a lump or notice any changes in her breast, she should seek medical attention promptly.\n\nA mammogram or mammography is a special x-ray of the breasts. They are the procedure most likely to detect early breast cancer in asymptomatic women. Mammograms can show tumors long before they are large enough to palpate. They are recommended for women who have symptoms of breast cancer or who are at increased risk of developing the disease. They are performed with the patient standing, the breast pressed between two plastic plates, as the image is taken. The interpretation has to be performed by a specialist.\n\nBreast ultrasound is a complementary study of mammography. In many women the tissue that makes up the breast is very dense, representing fibrous tissue and glandular tissue, which produces milk during lactation. This limits the radiologist interpreting the study, so, in these cases, the ultrasound is helpful, since this is capable of distinguishing tumors in women with dense breast tissue, where identification is otherwise difficult. Additionally, it is advisable to follow up a mammogram that shows indications of tumors with an ultrasound, to confirm, before more invasive procedures are undertaken.\n\nThe pelvic exam is part of the physical examination of the pelvic area of a woman, which generally also includes the taking of a sample for a pap smear. This test includes three parts. These are the general inspection of the external genitalia, bimanual examination, and inspection of the vaginal canal using a speculum.\n\nThe patient is placed in a supine position on a special examination table, which has two protrusions called \"stirrups.\" With the feet in these stirrups, the legs are placed in a position such that the medical professional can access the pelvic area. The external genitalia is examined first, looking for abnormalities like lesions, ulcers, warts and color changes. The elements of this exam include the vulva, which contains the mons pubis, of which there are two longitudinal folds of skin forming the labia majora; then the labia minora and hair follicles. The clitoral hood is also checked.\n\nThe purpose of this exam is to palpate organs which cannot be seen with visual inspection. The index and middle finger are inserted into the vagina. This maneuver allows the doctor to check the orientation, length and width of the vagina. Next, the cervix and vaginal fornices are palpated, to check position, size, consistency, mobility and sensibility. The other hand is placed in the pubis pressing it to feel the uterus between both hands. The most important characteristics to examine are the size of the uterus, presence of nodes or agglomerations, consistency, size, tilt, and mobility. With this technique, the ovaries are also palpable.\n\nThe speculum examination is recommended for only women over 21 years old, irrespective of her sexual activity. The speculum is an instrument made of metal or plastic and is constructed with two flaps. Its purpose is to separate and widen the vaginal opening and keep it open. This allows direct observation by the physician into the vaginal canal with the help of a lamp or a mirror.\n\nThere are different types of speculums used within the different characteristics of each patient such as age, sex life, and other factors. The first step is to open the vaginal opening with two fingers at the vulvo-perineal angle, then separate the fingers slightly and press down, then insert the speculum arranging the width of the tip of the flaps in anteroposterior. Then the speculum is moved into the vagina at an angle of 45°, following the natural contour of the posterior vaginal wall. When the speculum is in place, the fingers are removed and the device is rotated so that the flaps are horizontal. The flaps are then separated and locked into place when the cervical neck is completely visible.\n\nThe pap smear is a screening test to test for abnormalities such as cervical cancer and human papillomavirus infections, which require early treatment. To be viable, the patient should not be menstruating and had not used a vaginal contraceptive in the prior 24–48 hours. The procedure begins with the scraping of cells from the cervix and the uterine fornix, done during the speculum examination as there is access to the cervix. The scraping is done with a spatula, cervical brush or swab. Some women experience temporary bleeding from this procedure. The scrapings are placed on a slide, covered with a fixative for later examination under a microscope to determine if they are normal or abnormal.\n"}
{"id": "526664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526664", "title": "Wernicke encephalopathy", "text": "Wernicke encephalopathy\n\nWernicke encephalopathy (WE), also Wernicke's encephalopathy is the presence of neurological symptoms caused by biochemical lesions of the central nervous system after exhaustion of B-vitamin reserves, in particular thiamine (vitamin B1). The condition is part of a larger group of thiamine deficiency disorders, that includes beriberi in all its forms, and alcoholic Korsakoff syndrome. When it occurs simultaneously with alcoholic Korsakoff syndrome it is known as Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome.\n\nClassically, Wernicke encephalopathy is characterised by the triad – ophthalmoplegia, ataxia, and confusion. Around 10% of patients exhibit all three features, and other symptoms may also be present. While it is commonly regarded as a condition peculiar to malnourished people with alcohol misuse, it can be caused by a variety of diseases.\nIt is treated with thiamine supplementation, which can lead to improvement of the symptoms and often complete resolution, particularly in those where alcohol misuse is not the underlying cause. Often other nutrients also need to be replaced, depending on the cause.\n\nWernicke encephalopathy may be present in the general population with a prevalence of around 2%, and is considered underdiagnosed; probably, many cases are in patients who do not have commonly-associated symptoms.\n\nThe classic triad of symptoms found in Wernicke encephalopathy is:\n\nHowever, in actuality, only a small percentage of patients experience all three symptoms, and the full triad occurs more frequently among those who have overused alcohol. \n\nAlso a much more diverse range of symptoms has been found in patients with this condition, including:\n\nAlthough hypothermia is usually diagnosed with a body temperature of 35 °C / 95° Fahrenheit, or less, incipient cooling caused by deregulation in the CNS needs to be monitored because it can promote the development of an infection. The patient may report feeling cold, followed by mild chills, cold skin, moderate pallor, tachycardia, hypertension, tremor or piloerection. External warming techniques are advised to prevent hypothermia.\n\nAmong the frequently altered functions are the cardio circulatory. There may be tachycardia, dyspnea, chest pain, orthostatic hypotension, changes in heart rate and blood pressure. The lack of thiamine sometimes affects other major energy consumers, the myocardium, and also patients may have developed cardiomegaly. Heart failure with lactic acidosis syndrome has been observed. Cardiac abnormalities are an aspect of the WE, which was not included in the traditional approach, and are not classified as a separate disease.\nInfections have been pointed out as one of the most frequent triggers of death in WE. Furthermore, infections are usually present in pediatric cases.\n\nIn the last stage others symptoms may occur: hyperthermia, increased muscle tone, spastic paralysis, choreic dyskinesias and coma.\n\nBecause of the frequent involvement of heart, eyes and peripheral nervous system, several authors prefer to call it Wernicke disease rather than simply encephalopathy.\n\nEarly symptoms are nonspecific, and it has been stated that WE may present nonspecific findings. In Wernicke Korsakoff’s syndrome some single symptoms are present in about one-third.\n\nDepending on the location of the brain lesion different symptoms are more frequent:\nMamillary lesion are characteristic-small petechial hemorrhages are found.\n\nKorsakoff's syndrome, characterised by memory impairment, confabulation, confusion and personality changes, has a strong and recognised link with WE. A very high percentage of patients with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome also have peripheral neuropathy, and many alcoholics have this neuropathy without other neurologic signs or symptoms. Korsakoff´s occurs much more frequently in WE due to chronic alcoholism. It is uncommon among those who do not consume alcohol abusively. Up to 80% of WE patients who abuse alcohol develop Korsakoff's syndrome. In Korsakoff's, is usually observed atrophy of the thalamus and the mammillary bodies, and frontal lobe involvement. In a study, half of Wernicke-Korsakoff cases had good recovery from the amnesic state, which may take from 2 months to 10 years.\n\nWernicke encephalopathy has classically been thought of as a disease solely of alcoholics, but it is also found in the chronically undernourished, and in recent years had been discovered post bariatric surgery. Without being exhaustive, the documented causes of Wernicke encephalopathy have included:\n\nThiamine deficiency and errors of thiamine metabolism are believed to be the primary cause of Wernicke encephalopathy. Thiamine, also called B1, helps to break down glucose. Specifically, it acts as an essential coenzyme to the TCA cycle and the pentose phosphate shunt. Thiamine is first metabolised to its more active form, thiamine diphosphate (TDP), before it is used. The body only has 2–3 weeks of thiamine reserves, which are readily exhausted without intake, or if depletion occurs rapidly, such as in chronic inflammatory states or in diabetes. Thiamine is involved in:\n\nThe primary neurological-related injury caused by thiamine deficiency in WE is three-fold: oxidative damage, mitochondrial injury leading to apoptosis, and directly stimulating a pro-apoptotic pathway. Thiamine deficiency affects both neurons and astrocytes, glial cells of the brain. Thiamine deficiency alters the glutamate uptake of astrocytes, through changes in the expression of astrocytic glutamate transporters EAAT1 and EAAT2, leading to excitotoxicity. Other changes include those to the GABA transporter subtype GAT-3, GFAP, glutamine synthetase, and the Aquaporin 4 channel. Focal lactic acidosis also causes secondary oedema, oxidative stress, inflammation and white matter damage.\n\nDespite its name, WE is not related to Wernicke's area, a region of the brain associated with speech and language interpretation.\n\nIn most, early lesions completely reversed with immediate and adequate supplementation.\n\nLesions are usually symmetrical in the periventricular region, diencephalon, the midbrain, hypothalamus, and cerebellar vermis. Brainstem lesions may include cranial nerve III, IV, VI and VIII nuclei, the medial thalamic nuclei, and the dorsal nucleus of the vagus nerve. Oedema may be found in the regions surrounding the third ventricle, and fourth ventricle, also appearing petechiae and small hemorrhages. Chronic cases can present the atrophy of the mammillary bodies.\n\nEndothelial proliferation, hyperplasia of capillaries, demyelination and neuronal loss can also occur.\n\nAn altered blood–brain barrier may cause a perturbed response to certain drugs and foods.\n\nDiagnosis of Wernicke encephalopathy or disease is made clinically. Caine et al. in 1997 established criteria that Wernicke encephalopathy can be diagnosed in any patient with just two or more of the main symptoms noted above. The sensitivity of the diagnosis by the classic triad was 23% but increased to 85% taking two or more of the four classic features. This criteria is challenged because all the cases he studied were alcoholics.\n\nSome consider it sufficient to suspect the presence of the disease with only one of the principal symptoms. Some British hospital protocols suspect WE with any one of these symptoms: confusion, decreased consciousness level (or unconsciousness, stupor or coma), memory loss, ataxia or unsteadiness, ophthalmoplegia or nystagmus, and unexplained hypotension with hypothermia. The presence of only one sign should be sufficient for treatment.\nAs a much more diverse range of symptoms has been found frequently in patients it is necessary to search for new diagnostic criteria, however Wernicke encephalopathy remains a clinically-diagnosed condition. Neither the MR, nor serum measurements related to thiamine are sufficient diagnostic markers in all cases. Non-recovery upon supplementation with thiamine is inconclusive.\n\nThe sensitivity of MR was 53% and the specificity was 93%. The reversible cytotoxic edema was considered the most characteristic lesion of WE. The location of the lesions were more frequently atypical among non-alcoholics, while typical contrast enhancement in the thalamus and the mammillary bodies was observed frequently associated with alcohol abuse. These abnormalities may include:\nThere appears to be very little value for CT scans.\n\nThiamine can be measured using an erythrocyte transketolase activity assay, or by activation by measurement of in vitro thiamine diphosphate levels. Normal thiamine levels do not necessarily rule out the presence of WE, as this may be a patient with difficulties in intracellular transport.\n\nMost symptoms will improve quickly if deficiencies are treated early. Memory disorder may be permanent.\n\nIn patients suspected of WE, thiamine treatment should be started immediately. Blood should be immediately taken to test for thiamine, other vitamins and minerals levels. Following this an immediate intravenous or intramuscular dose of thiamine should be administered two or three times daily. Thiamine administration is usually continued until clinical improvement ceases.\n\nConsidering the diversity of possible causes and several surprising symptomatologic presentations, and because there is low assumed risk of toxicity of thiamine, because the therapeutic response is often dramatic from the first day, some qualified authors indicate parenteral thiamine if WE is suspected, both as a resource for diagnosis and treatment. The diagnosis is highly supported by the response to parenteral thiamine, but is not sufficient to be excluded by the lack of it. Parenteral thiamine administration is associated with a very small risk of anaphylaxis.\n\nAlcohol abusers may have poor dietary intakes of several vitamins, and impaired thiamine absorption, metabolism, and storage; they may thus require higher doses.\n\nIf glucose is given, such as in hypoglycaemic alcoholics, thiamine must be given concurrently. If this is not done, the glucose will rapidly consume the remaining thiamine reserves, exacerbating this condition.\n\nThe observation of edema in MR, and also the finding of inflation and macrophages in necropsied tissues, has led to successful administration of antiinflammatories.\n\nOther nutritional abnormalities should also be looked for, as they may be exacerbating the disease. In particular, magnesium, a cofactor of transketolase which may induce or aggravate the disease.\n\nOther supplements may also be needed, including: cobalamin, ascorbic acid, folic acid, nicotinamide, zinc, phosphorus (dicalcium phosphate) and in some cases taurine, especially suitable when there cardiocirculatory impairment.\nPatient-guided nutrition is suggested. In patients with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, even higher doses of parenteral thiamine are recommended. Concurrent toxic effects of alcohol should also be considered.\n\nThere are hospital protocols for prevention, supplementing with thiamine in the presence of: history of alcohol misuse or related seizures, requirement for IV glucose, signs of malnutrition, poor diet, recent diarrhea or vomiting, peripheral neuropathy, intercurrent illness, delirium tremens or treatment for DTs, and others. Some experts advise parenteral thiamine should be given to all at-risk patients in the Emergency Department.\n\nIn the clinical diagnosis should be remembered that early symptoms are nonspecific, and it has been stated that WE may present nonspecific findings. There is consensus to provide water-soluble vitamins and minerals after gastric operations.\n\nIn some countries certain foods have been supplemented with thiamine, and have reduced WE cases. Improvement is difficult to quantify because they applied several different actions. Avoiding alcohol and having adequate nutrition reduces one of the main risk factors in developing Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome.\n\nThere are no conclusive statistical studies, all figures are based on partial studies, and because of the ethical problems in conducting controlled trials are unlikely to be obtained in the future.\n\nWernicke´s lesions were observed in 0.8 to 2.8% of the general population autopsies, and 12.5% of alcoholics. This figure increases to 35% of alcoholics if including cerebellar damage due to lack of thiamine.\n\nMost autopsy cases were from alcoholics. Autopsy series were performed in hospitals on the material available which is unlikely to be representative of the entire population. Considering the slight affectations, previous to the generation of observable lesions at necropsy, the percentage should be higher. There is evidence to indicate that Wernicke encephalopathy is underdiagnosed. For example, in one 1986 study, 80% of cases were diagnosed postmortem. Is estimated that only 5–14% of patients with WE are diagnosed in life.\n\nIn a series of autopsy studies held in Recife, Brazil, it was found that only 7 out of 36 had had alcoholic habits, and only a small minority had malnutrition. In a reviewed of 53 published case reports from 2001 to 2011, the relationship with alcohol was also about 20% (10 out of 53 cases).\n\nIn this statistic fetal and infant damage with upcoming intellectual limitations should be included. WE is more likely to occur in males than females. Among the minority who are diagnosed, mortality can reach 17%. The main factors triggering death are thought to be infections and liver dysfunctions.\n\nWE was first identified in 1881 by the German neurologist Carl Wernicke, although the link with thiamine was not identified until the 1930s. A similar presentation of this disease was described by the Russian psychiatrist Sergei Korsakoff in a series of articles published 1887–1891.\n\n"}
{"id": "52743897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52743897", "title": "Wing Lake", "text": "Wing Lake\n\nWing Lake is a reservoir in Washington County in the U.S. state of Missouri.\n\nWing Lake was so named on account of its outline having the form of a wing.\n"}
{"id": "3772064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3772064", "title": "Yde Girl", "text": "Yde Girl\n\nYde Girl () is a bog body found in the \"Stijfveen\" peat bog near the village of Yde, Netherlands. She was found on 12 May 1897 and was reputedly uncannily well-preserved when discovered (especially her hair), but by the time the body was turned over to the authorities a fortnight later it had been severely damaged and deteriorated. Most of her teeth had been pulled from the skull by villagers as well as a large amount of hair. The peat cutting tools had also been reported to have severely damaged the body.\n\nCarbon-14 tests have indicated that Yde Girl died between 54 BCE and 128 CE at an approximate age of 16 years. She had long reddish blond hair, but one side of her head was initially thought to have been shaved before she died. Recent studies of Windeby I, however, have suggested that the shaved hair phenomenon in some bog bodies may simply attest to one side of the head being exposed to oxygen slightly longer than the other. Scans have shown that she suffered from scoliosis. She stood at , which is comparatively small for a sixteen-year-old.\n\nThe body was found clad in a woolen cape and with a woolen band, made in a braiding technique known as sprang, wrapped around the neck, suggesting she was executed or sacrificed. There was also a stab wound in the area of her collarbone, but that was not determined as the cause of death. It is thought that she may have died while unconscious, as defensive wounds were absent on the hand that was recovered from the body, unlike a similar case in Germany, the Kayhausen Boy, who had a cut on his left hand from an apparent defense attempt. As with most bog bodies, the skin and features are still preserved because of the tannic acid in the marsh water. When Yde Girl was excavated, the diggers accidentally caused a wound to the skull. Only the torso of the girl, the head, the right hand and the feet remain intact today. The rest of her body was not preserved or had been damaged by peat cutting tools.\n\nThe Yde Girl was put on display and further study was not carried out on the remains until 1992. Richard Neave, of University of Manchester, took a CT scan of the skull of Yde Girl and determined her age, both anatomically and historically. The Yde Girl became internationally known when Neave made a reconstruction of her head, using techniques from plastic surgery and criminal pathology. Due to the state of the body, the work on the reconstruction included some guesswork, for example, the nose. Yde Girl and her modern reconstruction are displayed at the Drents Museum in Assen.\n\nYde Girl, along with Roter Franz and the Weerdinge Men, were transported across the world for a museum tour in both the early and mid 2000s. Due to the intensity of the girl's death, protests in Canada prevented the tour from traveling through several locations in the country.\n\n"}
