{"id": "7554454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7554454", "title": "Alice Roberts", "text": "Alice Roberts\n\nAlice May Roberts (born 19 May 1973) is an English evolutionary biologist, biological anthropologist, television presenter and author. Since 2012 she is a professor of the public engagement in science at the University of Birmingham.\n\nRoberts was born in Bristol in 1973, the daughter of an aeronautical engineer and an English and arts teacher. She grew up in Westbury-on-Trym where she attended Westbury C-of-E Primary School and Redmaids' High School. In December 1988 she won the BBC1 \"Blue Peter\" Young Artists competition, appearing with her picture and the presenters on the front cover of the 10 December 1988 edition of the \"Radio Times\". Roberts studied medicine at the University of Wales College of Medicine (now part of Cardiff University) and graduated in 1997 with a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MB BCh) degree, having gained an intercalated Bachelor of Science degree in anatomy.\n\nAfter graduating in 1997, Roberts worked as a junior doctor with the National Health Service in South Wales for eighteen months. In 1998 she left clinical medicine and worked as an anatomy demonstrator at the University of Bristol, becoming a lecturer there in 1999.\n\nRoberts spent seven years working part-time on her PhD in paleopathology, the study of disease in ancient human remains, receiving the degree in 2008. She was a senior teaching fellow at the University of Bristol Centre for Comparative and Clinical Anatomy, where her main roles were teaching clinical anatomy, embryology and physical anthropology, as well as researching osteoarchaeology and paleopathology. She stated in 2009 that she was working towards becoming a professor of anatomy.\n\nIn 2009, she co-presented modules for the \"Beating Bipolar\" programme, the first internet-based education treatment for patients with bipolar depression, trialled by Cardiff University researchers.\n\nFrom August 2009 until January 2012, Roberts was a visiting fellow in both the Department of Archaeology and Anthropology and the Department of Anatomy of the University of Bristol.\n\nIn February 2012, Roberts was appointed the University of Birmingham's first professor of public engagement in science.\n\nShe is currently the director of anatomy at Bristol's Severn Deanery Postgraduate School of Surgery and is also an honorary fellow at Hull York Medical School.\n\nWriting in the \"I newspaper\" in 2016, Roberts dismissed the aquatic ape hypothesis (AAH) as a distraction \"from the emerging story of human evolution that is more interesting and complex\", adding that AAH has become \"a theory of everything\" that is simultaneously \"too extravagant and too simple\". She concluded by saying that \"science is about evidence, not wishful thinking\".\n\nRoberts will deliver the 2018 Christmas Lectures at the Royal Institution in London.\nShe is president-elect of British Science Association; her term will start in September 2019.\n\nNow a familiar face on British TV as a presenter on various science documentary programmes, Alice Roberts is one of the regular co-presenters of BBC geographical and environmental series \"Coast\".\n\nRoberts first appeared on television in the \"Time Team Live\" 2001 episode, working on Anglo-Saxon burials at Breamore, Hampshire. She went on to serve as a bone specialist and general presenter in many episodes, including the spin-off series \"Extreme Archaeology\". In August 2006, a \"Time Team\" special episode \"Big Royal Dig\" investigated the archaeology of Britain's royal palaces and Roberts was one of the main presenters.\n\nRoberts wrote and presented a BBC Two series on anatomy and health entitled \"Dr Alice Roberts: Don't Die Young\", which screened from January 2007. She presented a five-part BBC Two series on human evolution and early human migrations entitled \"The Incredible Human Journey\", beginning on 10 May 2009. In September 2009, she co-presented (with Mark Hamilton) \"A Necessary Evil?\", a one-hour documentary about the Burke and Hare murders.\n\nIn August 2010 she presented a one-hour documentary on BBC Four, \"Wild Swimming\", inspired by Roger Deakin’s book \"Waterlog\". Roberts presented a four-part BBC Two series on archaeology in August–September 2010, \"Digging for Britain\". Roberts explained, \"We’re taking a fresh approach by showing British archaeology as it's happening out in the field, from the excitement of artefacts as they come out of the ground, through to analysing them in the lab and working out what they tell us about human history.\" The series returned in 2011 and again (on BBC Four) in 2015, 2016 and 2017.\n\nIn March 2011 she presented a BBC documentary in the \"Horizon\" series entitled \"Are We Still Evolving?\" She presented the series \"Origins of Us\", which aired on BBC Two in October 2011, examining how the human body has adapted through seven million years of evolution. The last part of this series featured Roberts visiting the Rift Valley.\n\nIn April 2012 Roberts presented \"Woolly Mammoth: Secrets from the Ice\" on BBC Two. From 22 to 24 October 2012, she appeared, with co-presenter Dr George McGavin, in the BBC series \"Prehistoric Autopsy\", which discussed the remains of early hominins such as Neanderthals, \"Homo erectus\" and \"Australopithecus afarensis\". In May and June 2013 she presented the BBC Two series \"Ice Age Giants\". In September 2014 she was a presenter on the Horizon programme \"Is Your Brain Male or Female?\".\n\nIn October 2014 she presented \"Spider House\". In 2015 she co-presented a 3-part BBC TV documentary with Neil Oliver entitled \"The Celts: Blood, Iron and Sacrifice\" and wrote a book to tie in with the series: \"The Celts: Search for a Civilisation\". In April–May 2016 she co-presented the BBC Two programme \"Food Detectives\" which looked at food nutrition and its effects on the body. In May 2017 she was a presenter of the BBC Two documentary \"The Day The Dinosaurs Died\". In April 2018 she presented the six-part Channel 4 series \"Britain's Most Historic Towns\", which examines the history of six British towns, namely:\n\nIn September 2018 she presented the BBC Two documentary \"King Arthur's Britain: The Truth Unearthed\", which examines new archaeological discoveries that cast light on the political and trading situation in Britain during the Early Middle Ages.\n\nRoberts has authored or co-authored a number of peer reviewed scientific articles in journals. Her published books include:\n\n\n\nRoberts lives with her husband and two children, a daughter born in 2010 and a son born in 2013. She met her husband in Cardiff in 1997 when she was a medical student and he was an archaeology student. She is a pescatarian, a humanist and president-elect of Humanists UK, beginning her three-year term on 1 January, 2019.\n\nRoberts enjoys watercolour painting, surfing, cycling, gardening and pub quizzes. Roberts is an organiser of the Cheltenham Science Festival and school outreach programmes within the University of Bristol's Medical Sciences Division. In March 2007, she hosted the Bristol Medical School's charity dance show \"Clicendales 2007\", to raise funds for the charity CLIC Sargent.\n\nRoberts took her baby daughter with her when touring for the six-months filming of \"Digging for Britain\".\n"}
{"id": "17060601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17060601", "title": "Anxiety/uncertainty management", "text": "Anxiety/uncertainty management\n\nAnxiety/Uncertainty Management (AUM) theory was introduced by William B. Gudykunst to define how humans effectively communicate based on their balance of anxiety and uncertainty in social situations. Gudykunst believed that in order for successful intercultural communication a reduction in anxiety/uncertainty must occur. This is assuming that one person within the intercultural encounter is a stranger. AUM is a theory based on the Uncertainty Reduction Theory (URT) which was introduced by Berger and Calabrese in 1974. URT provides much of the initial framework for AUM, and much like other theories in the communication field AUM is a constantly developing theory, based on the observations of human behaviour in social situations.\n\nURT is based on the human's thought process and their approach to social situation in which they have uncertainty. URT suggests that uncertainty stems from the human's attempts to \"[proactively predict] \"the other's attitudes, values, feelings, beliefs and behaviors\"\" during social encounters. Humans attempt to reduce their uncertainty in social encounters when there is a motivation to do so, URT highlights three core motivations; they anticipate other social interaction at another point in time, the recipient has something the human needs or wants as a form of reward and/or the recipient is acting in a strange or deviant which is unexpected.\n\nBerger identified 7 axioms and 21 theorems within URT (theoretical statements which are generally excepted, but can be used to observe behaviours to be further proved), with these theorems providing the inspiration for a multitude of expansions to the theory, one of which is AUM. AUM uses the foundations of URT to formulate 47 axioms, with AUM integrating the human anxiety management within social situations, as well as their uncertainty management. AUM builds on URT's focus on individual or one-to-one communication, as the axioms and theorems focus on intercultural and intergroup communications.\n\nAUM incorporates both the URT and the works of Stephan and Stephan on anxiety within his axioms to expand URT to explain intergroup communications. AUM focuses on both anxiety and uncertainty reduction, this highlights the major difference between URT and AUM, with the intended outcome of URT being simply to reduce uncertainty, whereas AUM's outcome was for cultural adaptation and not solely the reduction of uncertainty. The inherent difference is that managing anxiety is to maintain it between minimum and maximum thresholds along a spectrum while reducing anxiety is unidirectional. This realization, along with the introduction of mindfulness as a factor of effective communication, led Gudykunst to finally designate an appropriate name for his research: Anxiety/Uncertainty Management theory (AUM).\n\nGudykunst assumed that at least one person in an intercultural encounter is a stranger. He argues that strangers undergo both anxiety and uncertainty; they don’t feel secure and they aren’t sure how to behave. Gudykunst noted that strangers and in-group members experience some degree of anxiety and uncertainty in any new interpersonal situation, but when the encounter takes place between people of different cultures, strangers are hyperaware of cultural differences. They then tend to overestimate the effect of cultural identity on the behavior of people in an alien society, while blurring individuals’ distinctions.\n\nThe purpose of the first iteration of AUM was to be a practical application with a high degree of utility. The format of AUM includes numerous axioms, which in turn converge on one another moving in the direction of effective communication. (See Figure X). The specific number of axioms has varied over the last fifteen years according to updated research in the field of cross-cultural communication.\n\nCommunication theories commonly focus on 4 levels: individual, interpersonal, intergroup, and cultural.\n\n• The individual level is the motivation for human communication, influencing the ways humans create and interpret messages (for example the need for group inclusion and self-concept support).\n\n• The interpersonal level is the way the message is exchanged when humans are communicating as an individual (for example one-on-one communication, intimate relationships and social networks).\n\n• The intergroup level is the exchange of messages when humans are communicating as a collective (for example social identities, collective self-esteem).\n\n• The cultural level is how people communicate similarly or differently dependant on their culture (for example dimensions of cultural variability).\n\nAUM focuses on interpersonal and intergroup levels of communication, with Gudykunst's axioms fitting into either the interpersonal or the intergroup categories. AUM discriminates between interpersonal and intergroup communications by examining predictions of behaviour. If the behaviour can be explained with cultural norms or with sociological norms, it can be classified as intergroup communication. When the behavior is best explained by psychological factors it is likely interpersonal communication. A second effective differentiator is to examine the identities that guide human behavior. When our behavior is guided by personal or human factors, interpersonal behaviors tend to occur. When it is guided by social factors the opposite is true.\n\nComplex theories such as AUM need to accept certain assumptions as true before the real content can be explored. Some metatheoretical assumptions Gudykunst makes on AUM are on the nature of reality, the way we gain knowledge, and the basis of human behavior. Gudykunst assumes that the basic processes of communication are the same across cultures; only the methods of interpretation vary. Also, he assumes these interpretations are how we gain data to create theories. Finally, and vital to AUM, he assumes that when humans are mindful they have greater control over their communications behaviors. This aspect of human nature is sometimes referred to as determinism.\n\nGudykunst also employs several theoretical assumptions. The first is that strangers will trigger both interpersonal and intergroup anxiety. The perspective he takes for the sake of developing axioms is that of the stranger immersed in an ingroup.\n\nAnother assumption deals with the concept of uncertainty. Gudykunst assumes that when uncertainty falls between an individual's minimum and maximum acceptable levels, effective communication will then take place. The maximum threshold is defined as the amount of uncertainty that we can possess and still comfortably predict the behavior of a stranger. Uncertainty above the minimum threshold keeps us from getting bored with the stranger and hence constraining communication.\n\nAnxiety for the purposes of anxiety/uncertainty management can be described as an apprehension based on the fear of negative consequences. It is more prevalent in intergroup relations because there is an added fear of appearing prejudiced when dealing with an outgroup. Similar to uncertainty, Gudykunst postulates that effective communication relies on managing anxiety between minimum and maximum thresholds. Once we reach our upper limit for anxiety, virtually all of our attention focuses on its source and not on effective communication. The concept of managing levels anxiety can be compared to managing eustress and distress to achieve optimum performance. The positive benefit of the optimum amount of anxiety is trust, or \"confidence that one will find what is desired from another rather than what is feared\" The negative consequence is avoidance. If we are overcome by anxiety we will simply choose not to communicate.\n\nAnother term needing a working definition for the purpose of anxiety/uncertainty management is \"effective communication\". Simply put, effective communication is the extent to which a message is interpreted by its recipient with the intended meaning from the sender. Communication is more effective when both the sender and receiver use the same frames of reference. However, in intercultural communication this is often untrue and interactions with strangers can in turn prove more difficult.\n\nFinally, the mechanism around which anxiety/uncertainty management revolves is mindfulness. When people communicate mindlessly, they tend to utilize broad categories and stereotypes to predict behavior. As mindfulness increases, the categories become more specific and typically more accurate predictors. Since being mindful makes us open to more information we are more likely to correctly identify the receiver's frame of interpretation.\n\nMindfulness refers to a conscious choice rather than scripted behavior. Em Griffin, author of the Communication book; \"A First Look At Communication Theory\" and Professor Emeritus of Communications at Wheaton College in Illinois defines mindfulness as \"the way that in-group members and strangers can reduce their anxiety and uncertainty to optimum levels\". Scripted behavior serves us well in familiar situations, but not in cross-cultural communication. William Howell suggests four levels of communication competence.\n\n\nGudykunst defined mindfulness as stage three (Conscious competence), in Howell's model. In this stage cognitive choice moderates the destructive force of doubt or fear. The last stage (Unconscious competence), is less competent than stage three and can quickly shift into oblivious incompetence. Mindfulness involves the creation of new categories, a new process of thinking, and formation of a kin which reinforces Delia's description of how a cognitively complex person uses a lot of interpersonal constructs.\n\nGudykunst uses two types of theoretical statements to construct his theory; axioms and theorems. Axioms are \"propositions that involve variables that are taken to be directly linked causally; axioms should therefore be statements that imply direct causal links among variables\" Some axioms do not apply in all situations. Boundary conditions specify when the axioms hold. The axioms can be combined to derive theorems. When combined the axioms and theorems form a \"casual process\" theory A primer in theory construction. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill Co., Inc. that explains effective communication. Dialectical processes influence much of our communication within specific interactions. To illustrate, uncertainty involves a dialectic between predictability and novelty. In the current version of the theory, dialectics are incorporated as boundary conditions for the axioms where applicable.\n\nGudykunst states that in generating the axioms for the theory he assumed that managing anxiety and uncertainty are “basic causes” influencing effective communication. Other variables (e.g. self-concepts, motivation, reactions to strangers, social categorization, situational processes, connections with strangers, ethical interactions, anxiety, uncertainty, mindfulness and effective communication), are treated as \"superficial causes\" of effective communication. The influence of these “superficial causes” on effective communication is mediated through anxiety and uncertainty. Being mindful allows us to engage in anxiety and uncertainty management.\n\nGudykunst uses 47 axioms as building blocks for the theorems of AUM. Axioms can be thought of as the lowest common denominators from which all causal theorems are derived.\n\nAxioms one through five all relate to our views of ourselves, or self-concepts. Gudykunst includes personal identities, social identities, and collective self-esteem in this category. Social identities are employed when we try to predict intergroup behavior and personal identities are naturally employed for interpersonal behavior. They both act in such a way as to help us manage uncertainty and anxiety by sufficiently predicting behavior. If either of these identities feels threatened, Gudykunst believes that we will attempt to raise collective self-esteem and hence fostering a more positive outcome. The greater our self-esteem, the better we are able to manage our anxiety.\n\nGudykunst's next set of axioms suggest that our motivation to interact with strangers is directly related to the fulfillment of needs. First, we have a need to trust others to behave favorably or at least in an expected manner. Second, and only in the context of intergroup relations, we need to feel inclusion with the group or anxiety will surely develop. Paradoxically, the third need that Gudykunst points out is our need for self-concept confirmation. We want to be included in the group, but not to the extent that our identity is lost in the crowd.\n\nWe tend to act more favorably toward strangers whose mannerisms and beliefs converge with our own. In this case, we have a greater propensity to exhibit empathy, tolerate more ambiguity, and have a less rigid social posture when seeking closure. A rigid attitude, or close-minded thinking, leads us to seek closure to an interaction in the most direct way possible. If we were to exhibit empathy and attempt to think more objectively about the perspective of the stranger, we should in turn be postured to accept more ambiguity and seek the most appropriate solution instead of the most direct.\n\nThe next seven axioms of this theory focus on how people order their social environments into categories. When people categorize themselves, they become aware of being members of ingroups and outgroups, which generates anxiety and uncertainty. People tend to have more categories for their ingroup than they do for an outgroup, but the more familiar they are with an outgroup, the more categories they see. The categories that people create for outgroups will lead to expectations about the behavior of a member of that group, which can be either positive or negative. Expectations then help people predict, accurately or inaccurately, a stranger's behavior.\n\nThe next four axioms are based on the situations in which communication occurs. People have different scripts they expect to follow for a given situation, much like actors may follow a movie script. Miscommunication occurs when people follow a script they assume the stranger with whom they are communicating to be familiar. People also react to strangers differently based on the conditions in which they interact. For example, cooperation was found to lead to positive feelings towards those one is working with. People also tend to have less anxiety when there are other members of their ingroups present. Power also affects communication, and a person who feels they have less power than the stranger in an interaction will feel more anxiety towards that interaction.\n\nThe next five axioms are based on connections between people. What the axioms come to is the more connected people feel to strangers, the less anxiety and uncertainty they feel in communicating with them. These connections come from attraction, interdependence, levels of intimacy, and number of the same people both communicators know.\n\nThe next three axioms are based on dignity and respect. Both dignity and respect are assumed to be returned when given to a stranger. This leads to moral inclusiveness, which is good for interactions with strangers because both sides expect the rules of fair play to apply to them. When strangers are considered morally excluded, they are treated almost as nonexistent, or as not deserving of respect or dignity. Moral inclusiveness applies not only to communication, but also to bystanders not actively involved in communication with strangers. For example, if a person makes an anti-prejudice statement, the people he or she is with are less likely to make a prejudiced statement towards a stranger.\n\nLanger states that mindfulness involves creating new categories, an openness to new information, and being aware of strangers' perspectives. Mindfulness is essential for effective communication and one needs to develop mindful ways of learning about strangers. Langer concludes that this should involve: openness to \"novelty\", awareness of distinctions, being sensitive to different contexts, an awareness of multiple perspectives, and an orientation to the present. For example, strangers are usually more mindful and able to \"negotiate potentially problematic social interactions more effectively\" than ingroup members. Therefore, ingroup members should be mindful of the process of communicating as opposed to being mindful of the outcome of the interaction.\n\nThe following five axioms are essential for effective communication because they focus on the basic causes and processes of effective communication whereas the previous 34 axioms focused on managing our anxiety and uncertainty when communicating with strangers.\n\nGudykunst believes that for the theory to be complete there must be a cultural level of analysis included and that the axioms regarding cultural variability should only be tested on the cultural level. It is necessary to address cross-cultural variability in the major components of the theory because different types of anxiety are emphasized more in some cultures than in others. This is because there are differences in the dynamics of stranger-ingroup relationships across cultures. For example, Triandis offers that collectivist cultures tend to make a stronger distinction between ingroup and outgroup members whereas members of individualistic cultures usually only draw as sharp of distinctions among differing ethnic groups.\n\nThere are many ways AUM theory can be applied. It can be effective in studying the behavior of a stranger adjusting to a new culture, as well as in examining how individuals communicate with strangers and often accurately predict their behavior; this is done when we are mindful. Gudykunst explains that some axioms can be combined to form theorems. These theorems that are generated might be consistent with previous research, while others might be useful for future study. He notes that not all axioms can be combined to form a new theorem. Huber and Sorrentino differentiate between certainty–oriented individuals and uncertainty-oriented individuals and argue that theories of interpersonal and intergroup relations have an \"uncertainty orientation\" bias. Gudykunst gives three reasons why AUM theory is not limited to uncertainty-oriented individuals. First, uncertainty-orientation is incorporated into the theory. Second, the superficial causes or factors that influence our uncertainty in a situation influence the amount of uncertainty we feel. Lastly, our personality characteristics influence our behavior only when we are not mindful. Gudykunst also defends the number of axioms in the theory because when the goal of a theory is to improve communication, one cannot afford to be vague. Gudykunst acknowledges that there are certain areas where additional research is needed. For instance, one cannot always be mindful when communicating. Potential problems then refer to the recognition of instances in which mindfulness is needed and defining the optimal levels of anxiety or uncertainty. Future research needs to develop ways to measure an individual's minimum and maximum thresholds of uncertainty and anxiety in the same way that anxiety and uncertainty are measured. AUM theory is in a constant state of revision and even the current version of the theory is not complete.\n\nGriffin identifies the complexity of the AUM theory as a weakness arguing, \"hypothetically, the 47 axioms could spawn over a thousand theorems.\"\n\nPotential expansion of the axioms as a result of incorporation of more cultural variability indicates the possibility of causing greater confusion and complication.\n\nTing-Toomey explores the content of AUM theory as a potential weakness demanding further revision of the theories. She points out five conceptual issues in relation to URT and the social penetration theory.\n\n\nThe AUM theory regards effective communication as a primary construct, defining effective communication as the attribution of the closest meaning to incoming messages as intended by the sender which would minimise misunderstanding. This view leads to two potential problems as the definition of effective communication and effective communication as the goal of ICC.\n\nThere are various reasons for human communication which lead to questioning the possibility and the necessity of attributing the closest meaning to such great variety of communication situations. The AUM theory regards effective communication as attribution of the closest meaning to the intended meaning diminishes communication mechanical and linear activity \"where messages are transferred from sender to receiver\".\n\nAUM theory defines the goal of effective communication as the decrease of miscommunication. Such perspective on communication is mechanical with little emotional attachment, regarding pure communication without misattribution as ideal. As great importance is given to efficiency, culture is referred to as “noise” that obstructs the smooth transition of communication.\n\nAnxiety/uncertainty management theory has been criticised for its heavy focus on the person being mindful during communications, with there being an assumption that a person should have to adopt a high level of consciousness throughout communication. However the theory is difficult to apply to instances where a person is compelled by emotion or irrationality, which overrides conscious thought to reach an end goal during communication.\n\nThe meta-theoretical assumptions specific to Anxiety/Uncertainty Management theory have been critiqued by Masaki Yoshitake of the University of Oklahoma, who suggests that anxiety/uncertainty management theory is inherently inefficient when attempting to describe a universal experience shared between strangers and members of different cultures. Yoshitake states that it is questionable whether interpersonal communication is really a pure form of communication and suggests a difficulty to determine what is in the mind of a person from another culture altogether. Yoshitake asserts that pure communication never exists in the first place, as every attempt to share a direct experience is mitigated by the limitations of a person's own perceptions. This results in an ever-present \"otherness\" in communication. Such commentary is a product of Cartesian thought.\n\n"}
{"id": "51513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51513", "title": "Arrow", "text": "Arrow\n\nAn arrow is a fin-stabilized projectile that is launched via a bow, and usually consists of a long straight stiff shaft with stabilizers called fletchings, as well as a weighty (and usually sharp and pointed) arrowhead attached to the front end, and a slot at the rear end called the nock for engaging the bowstring. The use of bows and arrows by humans predates recorded history and is common to most cultures. A craftsman who makes arrows is a \"fletcher\", and one that makes arrowheads is an \"arrowsmith\".\n\nThe oldest evidence of stone-tipped projectiles, which may or may not have been propelled by a bow (c.f. atlatl), dating to c. 64,000 years ago, were found in Sibudu Cave, current South Africa.\nThe oldest evidence of the use of bows to shoot arrows dates to about 10,000 years ago; it is based on pinewood arrows found in the Ahrensburg valley north of Hamburg. They had shallow grooves on the base, indicating that they were shot from a bow. The oldest bow so far recovered is about 8,000 years old, found in the Holmegård swamp in Denmark.\nArchery seems to have arrived in the Americas with the Arctic small tool tradition, about 4,500 years ago.\n\nArrow sizes vary greatly across cultures, ranging from eighteen inches to five feet (45 cm to 150 cm). However, most modern arrows are to ; most war arrows from an English ship sunk in 1545 were . Very short arrows have been used, shot through a guide attached either to the bow (an \"overdraw\") or to the archer's wrist (the Turkish \"siper\"). These may fly farther than heavier arrows, and an enemy without suitable equipment may find himself unable to return them.\n\nThe shaft is the primary structural element of the arrow, to which the other components are attached. Traditional arrow shafts are made from strong, lightweight wood, bamboo or reeds, while modern shafts may be made from aluminium, carbon fibre reinforced plastic, or a combination of materials. Such shafts are typically made from an aluminium core wrapped with a carbon fibre outer. A traditional premium material is Port Orford Cedar.\n\nThe stiffness of the shaft is known as its \"spine\", referring to how little the shaft bends when compressed, hence an arrow which bends less is said to have more spine. In order to strike consistently, a group of arrows must be similarly spined. \"Center-shot\" bows, in which the arrow passes through the central vertical axis of the bow riser, may obtain consistent results from arrows with a wide range of spines. However, most traditional bows are not center-shot and the arrow has to deflect around the handle in the archer's paradox; such bows tend to give most consistent results with a narrower range of arrow spine that allows the arrow to deflect correctly around the bow. Bows with higher draw weight will generally require stiffer arrows, with more spine (less flexibility) to give the correct amount of flex when shot.\n\nThe weight of an arrow shaft can be expressed in GPI (grains per inch). The length of a shaft in inches multiplied by its GPI rating gives the weight of the shaft in grains. For example, a shaft that is 30 inches long and has a GPI of 9.5 weighs 285 grains, or about 18 grams. This does not include the other elements of a finished arrow, so a complete arrow will be heavier than the shaft alone.\n\nSometimes a shaft will be made of two different types of wood fastened together, resulting in what is known as a footed arrow. Known by some as the finest of wood arrows, footed arrows were used both by early Europeans and Native Americans. Footed arrows will typically consist of a short length of hardwood near the head of the arrow, with the remainder of the shaft consisting of softwood. By reinforcing the area most likely to break, the arrow is more likely to survive impact, while maintaining overall flexibility and lighter weight.\n\nThe arrowhead or projectile point is the primary functional part of the arrow, and plays the largest role in determining its purpose. Some arrows may simply use a sharpened tip of the solid shaft, but it is far more common for separate arrowheads to be made, usually from metal, horn, or some other hard material. Arrowheads are usually separated by function:\n\n\n\nArrowheads may be attached to the shaft with a cap, a socketed tang, or inserted into a split in the shaft and held by a process called hafting. Points attached with caps are simply slid snugly over the end of the shaft, or may be held on with hot glue. Split-shaft construction involves splitting the arrow shaft lengthwise, inserting the arrowhead, and securing it using a ferrule, sinew, or wire.\n\nFletchings are found at the back of the arrow and act as airfoils to provide a small amount of force used to stabilize the flight of the arrow. They are designed to keep the arrow pointed in the direction of travel by strongly damping down any tendency to pitch or yaw. Some cultures, for example most in New Guinea, did not use fletching on their arrows. Also, arrows without fletching (called bare shaft) are used for training purposes, because they make certain errors by the archer more visible.\n\nFletchings are traditionally made from feathers (often from a goose or turkey) bound to the arrow's shaft, but are now often made of plastic (known as \"vanes\"). Historically, some arrows used for the proofing of armour used copper vanes. Flight archers may use razor blades for fletching, in order to reduce air resistance. With conventional three-feather fletching, one feather, called the \"cock\" feather, is at a right angle to the nock, and is normally nocked so that it will not contact the bow when the arrow is shot. Four-feather fletching is usually symmetrical and there is no preferred orientation for the nock; this makes nocking the arrow slightly easier.\n\nNatural feathers are usually prepared by splitting and sanding the quill before gluing. Further, the feather may be trimmed to shape, die-cut or burned by a hot electrically-heated wire. It's crucial that all the feathers of an arrow have the same drag, so manual trimming is rarely used by modern fletchers. The burning-wire method is popular because different shapes are possible by bending the wire, and the fletching can be symmetrically trimmed after gluing by rotating the arrow on a fixture.\n\nSome fletchings are dyed. Two-toned fletchings usually make each fletching from two feathers knit together. The front fletching is often camouflaged, and the rear fletching bright so that the archer can easily track the arrow.\n\nArtisans who make arrows by hand are known as \"fletchers,\" a word related to the French word for arrow, \"flèche.\" This is the same derivation as the verb \"fletch,\" meaning to provide an arrow with its feathers. Glue and thread are the traditional methods of attaching fletchings. A \"fletching jig\" is often used in modern times, to hold the fletchings in exactly the right orientation on the shaft while the glue hardens.\n\nWhenever natural fletching is used, the feathers on any one arrow must come from the same wing of the bird. The most common being the right-wing flight feathers of turkeys. The slight cupping of natural feathers requires them to be fletched with a right-twist for right wing, a left-twist for left wing. This rotation, through a combination of gyroscopic stabilization and increased drag on the rear of the arrow, helps the arrow to fly straight away. Artificial \"helical\" fletchings have the same effect. Most arrows will have three fletches, but some have four or even more. Fletchings generally range from two to six inches (152 mm) in length; flight arrows intended to travel the maximum possible distance typically have very low fletching, while hunting arrows with broadheads require long and high fletching to stabilize them against the aerodynamic effect of the head. Fletchings may also be cut in different ways, the two most common being \"parabolic\" (i.e. a smooth curved shape) and \"shield\" (i.e. shaped as one-half of a very narrow shield) cut.\n\nIn modern archery with screw-in points, right-hand rotation is generally preferred as it makes the points self-tighten. In traditional archery, some archers prefer a left rotation because it gets the hard (and sharp) quill of the feather farther away from the arrow-shelf and the shooter's hand.\n\nA flu-flu is a form of fletching, normally made by using long sections of full length feathers taken from a turkey, in most cases six or more sections are used rather than the traditional three. Alternatively two long feathers can be spiraled around the end of the arrow shaft. The extra fletching generates more drag and slows the arrow down rapidly after a short distance, about 30 m or so.\n\nFlu-Flu arrows are often used for hunting birds, or for children's archery, and can also be used to play Flu-Flu Golf.\n\nIn English it is common to say \"nock an arrow\" when one readies a shot. A nock is a notch in the rearmost end of an arrow. It helps keep the arrow correctly rotated. It also keeps the arrow from slipping sideways during the draw or after the release. It also helps maximize the arrow's energy (i.e. its range and lethality) by helping an archer place the arrow at the fastest-moving place on the bowstring. Some archers mark the nock position with beads, knots or wrappings of thread.\n\nThe main purpose of a nock is to control the rotation of the arrow. Arrows bend when released. If the bend hits the bowstave, the arrow's aim will be thrown off. Wooden arrows have a preferred bending-plane. Synthetic arrows have a designed bending plane. Usually this plane is determined by the grain of the wood of the arrow, or the structure of a synthetic arrow. The nock's slot should be rotated at an angle chosen so that when the arrow bends, it avoids or slides on the bowstave. Almost always this means that the slot of the nock must be perpendicular to the wood's grain, viewed from behind.\n\n\"Self nocks\" are slots cut in the back of the arrow. These are simple, but can break at the base of the slot. Self nocks are often reinforced with glued servings of fiber near the base of the slot. The sturdiest nocks are separate pieces made from wood, plastic, or horn that are then attached to the end of the arrow.\nModern nocks, and traditional Turkish nocks, are often constructed so as to curve around the string or even pinch it slightly, so that the arrow is unlikely to slip off.\n\nAncient Arab archery sometimes used \"nockless arrows.\" In shooting at enemies, Arabs saw them pick up Arab arrows and shoot them back. So Arabs developed bowstrings with a small ring tied where the nock would normally be placed. The rear end of the arrow would be sharpened to a point, rather than slit for a nock. The rear end of the arrow would slip into the ring. The arrow could be drawn and released as usual. Then the enemy could collect the arrows, yet not shoot them back with a conventional bow. Also, since there was no nock, the nock could not break, and the arrow was less expensive. A piece of battle advice was to have several rings tied to the bowstring in case one broke. A practical disadvantage compared to a nock would be preserving the optimal rotation of the arrow, so that when it flexes, it does not hit the bowstave. The bend direction of the arrow might have been indicated by its fletching.\n\nArrows are usually finished so that they are not softened by rain, fog or condensation. Traditional finishes are varnishes or lacquers. Arrows sometimes need to be repaired, so it's important that the paints be compatible with glues used to attach arrowheads, fletchings and nocks. For this reason, arrows are rarely protected by waxing.\n\nCrests are rings of color painted on arrows in a unique arrangement to indicate the owner of the arrow. An arrow is usually crested on a lathe-like tool called a cresting machine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53726612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53726612", "title": "Bankson T. Holcomb Jr.", "text": "Bankson T. Holcomb Jr.\n\nBankson Taylor Holcomb Jr. (April 14, 1908 – October 5, 2000) was a decorated officer of the United States Marine Corps with the rank of brigadier general. He is most noted for his service as cryptanalyst and Linguist for Admirals Halsey and Spruance during the Pacific War or as Intelligence Officer of the 1st Marine Division during the Korean War. He was also a cousin of Commandant of the Marine Corps General Thomas Holcomb.\n\nBankson T. Holcomb Jr. was born on April 14, 1908, in Wilmington, Delaware, the son of prominent insurance businessman Bankson T. Holcomb Sr. and his wife Julian Newton Holcomb. His family moved to China in 1921 and Bankson Jr. attended Peking American High School within the American Legation.\n\nFollowing his 17th birthday, impressed by the local Marine detachment, Banks decided to enlist in the Marine Corps in April 1925. Holcomb served as enlisted man for next six months and was decorated with Marine Corps Good Conduct Medal for his service.\n\nHis superior recommended him for Naval Academy Preparatory School in San Diego, California. However Holcomb failed the Ancient history exam and was transferred to the private Virginia Preparatory School in Hampton Roads. He was successful the second time and was admitted to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland in June 1927. Four years later, Holcomb graduated with the Class of 1931 and was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps in June 1931. Because of his knowledge of Chinese language and interest in Orient, he was nicknamed \"Chink\" by his classmates. Banks was also active in the track, cross country running team, Gymkhana or was a member of radio club.\n\nMany of his classmates had distinguished careers and became general officers: John S. McCain Jr., Horacio Rivero Jr., Charles T. Booth, Lawson P. Ramage, Bernard F. Roeder, Frederick L. Wieseman, Frederick J. Becton, Charles B. Brooks Jr., Ernest B. Ellsworth, Wilmer E. Gallaher, Andrew J. Hill Jr., Harlan T. Johnson, Frederic S. Keeler, Edward J. O'Neill, Forsyth Massey, Berton A. Robbins, Jr., Kinlock C. Walpole, Nelson K. Brown, Austin R. Brunelli, Edward J. Dillon, Robert E. Fojt, Edward H. Forney, Lewis C. Hudson, Clifford H. Shuey or Samuel G. Taxis.\n\nFollowing his graduation, Holcomb was sent to the Basic School within Marine Barracks Quantico, Virginia, for the Basic Officer Course. Holcomb graduated from the course and subsequently was assigned to the Marine Barracks at the Philadelphia Navy Yard. He served in this assignment until the beginning of 1934, when he was transferred back to China. Holcomb was appointed platoon leader in the 4th Marine Regiment under Colonel John C. Beaumont and was stationed at Shanghai. While serving there, he was promoted to the rank of first lieutenant in November 1934 and subsequently assigned to the Chinese language advanced course at the American Embassy in Peking.\n\nHolcomb was transferred back to the United States in 1937 and assigned to Marine Barracks Quantico, where he was a company commander. He was promoted to the rank of captain in January 1939 and later transferred to Washington, D.C., where he was assigned to the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI). Captain Holcomb was subsequently sent to Japan, where he was attached to the American Embassy in Tokyo. Holcomb's purpose for the Japanese service was aligned to the ONI advanced Japanese language and cultural program.\n\nShortly before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Captain Holcomb was transferred to Hawaii and was assigned to Station Hypo, under the command of Commander Joseph Rochefort. As an experienced linguist, he translated enemy messages and performed intelligence work. Holcomb served in this capacity until early 1942, when he was assigned to the staff of Carrier Division 2 under the command of Vice Admiral William Halsey.\n\nHe and three radio operators were assigned to the aircraft carrier \"USS Enterprise\" to intercept and translate the enemy's radio traffic. Holcomb participated in the Marshalls–Gilberts raids at the beginning of February 1942 and, for his work during the raids and the Pearl Harbor attack, he was decorated with Navy Commendation Medal with Combat \"V\".\n\nHolcomb subsequently returned to Station Hypo and received temporary promotion to major in May 1942. He served at Station Hypo until December 1942, when he was transferred to Chungking, China, and appointed Officer in Charge of the Communications and Intelligence Activities there. In this capacity, he also served as a member of the U.S. Naval Advisory Group and instructor for Kuomintang guerrillas. While in China, he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel on March 1, 1943.\n\nIn 1944, Holcomb was transferred back to the United States and assigned to the ONI's OP-20-GZ, under the command of Commander Redfield B. Mason and worked as language officer on China/Japan Intelligence matters.\n\nLieutenant Colonel Holcomb returned to Pacific in the early 1945, when he was assigned as a radio intelligence and translation officer on the Task Force 58 staff under Admiral Raymond A. Spruance. He subsequently participated in the Battle of Iwo Jima and Battle of Okinawa with that command and was decorated with Bronze Star Medal with Combat \"V\" for his distinguished work during the whole duration of the war, Holcomb was also decorated with the Legion of Merit with Combat \"V\".\n\nFollowing the surrender of Japan in August 1945, Holcomb was participated in the occupation duties until 1948, when he was promoted to the rank of colonel, transferred back to the United States, and assigned to Marine Barracks, Norfolk Navy Yard as an intelligence officer. While stationed at Norfolk, Holcomb attended the Armed Forces Staff College and, after graduation in 1949, was transferred to Camp Pendleton, California, for a brief period as the temporary commanding officer of the 5th Marine Regiment on September 1, 1949. After one month, he was relived by Colonel Victor H. Krulak and appointed as Chief of Staff, Fleet Marine Force Pacific at Guam.\n\nWhen the Korean War broke out, Holcomb was transferred to the 1st Marine Division staff and appointed the Intelligence Officer (G-2) under Major General Oliver P. Smith. He participated in the Battle of Pusan Perimeter, the Battle of Inchon or Battle of Chosin Reservoir, and in the interrogation of Chinese prisoners of war, with whom he worked with in China during World War II. Holcomb was also decorated with his second Legion of Merit for his service as 1st Division's intelligence officer.\n\nHe was transferred back to United States due to illness in February 1951 and was sent to Bethesda Naval Hospital for recovery. After he was pronounced fit for duty, Holcomb was appointed Assistant Chief of Staff and Intelligence Officer, Fleet Marine Force Atlantic. One of his final assignments was Officer in Charge of the Intelligence Section, Headquarters Marine Corps during the summer of 1957, before he retired in January 1959. He was advanced to the rank of brigadier general on the retired list for having been specially commended in combat.\n\nUpon his retirement from the Marine Corps, Holcomb and his wife moved to Inverness, Scotland, where he was active in the Fleet Radio Unit Pacific veterans amateur unit. Holcomb was also later active in the supporting of Rear Admiral Edwin T. Layton's book \"And I Was There: Pearl Harbor and Midway — Breaking the Secrets\".\n\nBrigadier General Bankson T. Holcomb Jr. died on October 5, 2000.\n\nHere is the ribbon bar of Brigadier General Bankson T. Holcomb:\n"}
{"id": "4540355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4540355", "title": "Bartleby.com", "text": "Bartleby.com\n\nBartleby.com is an electronic text archive, headquartered in Los Angeles and named after Herman Melville's story \"Bartleby, the Scrivener.\" It was founded under the name \"Project Bartleby\" in January 1993 by Steven H. van Leeuwen as a personal, non-profit collection of classic literature on the website of Columbia University. In February 1994 he published the first classic book in HTML, Whitman's \"Leaves of Grass\". In 1997 it moved to its own domain, bartleby.com, and was called \"The New Bartleby Library\", where it continued to publish highly accurate transcriptions. In September 1999 Bartleby.com was incorporated and started to focus on reference works, including the contemporary 6th edition of the \"Columbia Encyclopedia\".\n\nIn June 2009, licensed reference works from Columbia University Press and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt were removed from the site \"due to financial and usage considerations.\" By January 2013, on its twentieth anniversary, more than one billion pages had been accessed.\n\nIn August 2017 Bartleby.com was acquired by Barnes & Noble Education in its purchase of Student Brands, which had bought the site in December 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "50594803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50594803", "title": "Bellsybabble", "text": "Bellsybabble\n\nBellsybabble is a fictional language of the Devil, which he makes up as he goes along. Writer James Joyce mentions it in the following postscript to a letter (containing the story now known as \"The Cat and the Devil\"), which he wrote in 1936 to his four-year-old grandson:\nThe name \"Bellsybabble\" is a pun on Beelzebub, \"babble\" and Babel. Bellsybabble has variously been called a poly-language, a pluridialectal idiom and a ludic creation.\n\nFor Giorgio Melchiori, it is suggestive of the idea that in literary texts, there is not a single language, but a multitude of languages, a different one for each reader of the text. It has been compared with the language of Joyce's novel \"Finnegans Wake\", and has also provided the inspiration for C. George Sandulescu's study of \"Finnegans Wake\", entitled \"The Language of the Devil\".\n\nLinguist John Haiman compares Bellsybabble to ordinary language in the way it continually shapes, and is in turn shaped by, the utterances spoken within it. This challenges the rigid separation between code and message. On one hand, the language determines the presupposed content and boundaries of possible messages, as shown by the concept of linguistic relativity. On the other hand, the message may also affect the code used by that very message.\n"}
{"id": "39216595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39216595", "title": "Bibliography of the American Revolutionary War", "text": "Bibliography of the American Revolutionary War\n\nThe following bibliography includes notable books concerning the American Revolutionary War. These books are listed in the bibliographies of books by prominent historians as shown in the footnotes. Under construction: This article is being expanded and revised.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6274091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6274091", "title": "Bombard the Headquarters", "text": "Bombard the Headquarters\n\nBombard The Headquarters – My Big-Character Poster () was a short document written by Chairman Mao Zedong on August 5, 1966 during the 11th Plenary Session of the 8th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and published on the Communist Party's official newspaper \"People's Daily\" a year later, on August 5, 1967.\n\nIt is commonly believed that this \"poster\" directly targeted Chinese President Liu Shaoqi and senior leader Deng Xiaoping, who were then in charge of Chinese government's daily affairs and who tried to cool down the mass hysteria which had been coming into shape in several universities in Beijing since the May 16 Notice, through which Mao officially launched the Cultural Revolution, was issued.\n\nMuch larger scale of mass persecutions came after the publication of this big-character poster, resulting in turmoil of the whole country and the death of thousands of \"class enemies\", including President Liu Shaoqi.\n\nThe original text of the poster was:\n\nEnglish translation:\n"}
{"id": "7023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7023", "title": "Confederate States of America", "text": "Confederate States of America\n\nThe Confederate States of America (CSA or C.S.), commonly referred to as the Confederacy and the South, was an unrecognized country in North America that existed from 1861 to 1865. The Confederacy was originally formed by seven secessionist slave-holding states—South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas—in the Lower South region of the United States, whose economy was heavily dependent upon agriculture, particularly cotton, and a plantation system that relied upon the labor of African-American slaves.\n\nEach state declared its secession from the United States, which became known as the Union during the ensuing civil war, following the November 1860 election of Republican candidate Abraham Lincoln to the U.S. presidency on a platform which opposed the expansion of slavery into the western territories. Before Lincoln took office in March, a new Confederate government was established in February 1861, which was considered illegal by the government of the United States. States volunteered militia units and the new government hastened to form its own Confederate States Army from scratch practically overnight. After the American Civil War began in April, four slave states of the Upper South—Virginia, Arkansas, Tennessee, and North Carolina—also declared their secession and joined the Confederacy. The Confederacy later accepted Missouri and Kentucky as members, although neither officially declared secession nor were they ever largely controlled by Confederate forces; Confederate shadow governments attempted to control the two states but were later exiled from them.\n\nThe government of the United States (the Union) rejected the claims of secession and considered the Confederacy illegally founded. The War began with the Confederate attack upon Fort Sumter on April 12, 1861, a Union fort in the harbor of Charleston, South Carolina. No foreign government officially recognized the Confederacy as an independent country, although Great Britain and France granted it belligerent status, which allowed Confederate agents to contract with private concerns for arms and other supplies. In early 1865, after four years of heavy fighting which led to 620,000–850,000 military deaths, all the Confederate forces surrendered and the Confederacy vanished. The war lacked a formal end; nearly all Confederate forces had been forced into surrender or deliberately disbanded by the end of 1865, by which point the dwindling manpower and resources of the Confederacy were facing overwhelming odds. By 1865, Jefferson Davis lamented that the Confederacy had \"disappeared\".\n\nOn February 22, 1862, the Confederate Constitution of seven state signatories – Mississippi, South Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas – replaced the Provisional Constitution of February 8, 1861, with one stating in its preamble a desire for a \"permanent federal government\". Four additional slave-holding states – Virginia, Arkansas, Tennessee, and North Carolina – declared their secession and joined the Confederacy following a call by U.S. President Abraham Lincoln for troops from each state to recapture Sumter and other seized federal properties in the South.\n\nMissouri and Kentucky were represented by partisan factions adopting the forms of state governments without control of substantial territory or population in either case. The antebellum state governments in both maintained their representation in the Union. Also fighting for the Confederacy were two of the \"Five Civilized Tribes\" – the Choctaw and the Chickasaw – in Indian Territory and a new, but uncontrolled, Confederate Territory of Arizona. Efforts by certain factions in Maryland to secede were halted by federal imposition of martial law; Delaware, though of divided loyalty, did not attempt it. A Unionist government was formed in opposition to the secessionist state government in Richmond and administered the western parts of Virginia that had been occupied by Federal troops. The Restored Government later recognized the new state of West Virginia, which was admitted to the Union during the war on June 20, 1863, and re-located to Alexandria for the rest of the war.\n\nConfederate control over its claimed territory and population in congressional districts steadily shrank from 73% to 34% during the course of the American Civil War due to the Union's successful overland campaigns, its control of the inland waterways into the South, and its blockade of the southern coast. With the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863, the Union made abolition of slavery a war goal (in addition to reunion). As Union forces moved southward, large numbers of plantation slaves were freed. Many joined the Union lines, enrolling in service as soldiers, teamsters and laborers. The most notable advance was Sherman's \"March to the Sea\" in late 1864. Much of the Confederacy's infrastructure was destroyed, including telegraphs, railroads and bridges. Plantations in the path of Sherman's forces were severely damaged. Internal movement became increasingly difficult for Southerners, weakening the economy and limiting army mobility.\n\nThese losses created an insurmountable disadvantage in men, materiel, and finance. Public support for Confederate President Jefferson Davis's administration eroded over time due to repeated military reverses, economic hardships, and allegations of autocratic government. After four years of campaigning, Richmond was captured by Union forces in April 1865. A few days later General Robert E. Lee surrendered to Union General Ulysses S. Grant, effectively signalling the collapse of the Confederacy. President Davis was captured on May 10, 1865, and jailed in preparation for a treason trial that was ultimately never held.\n\nThe initial Confederacy was established in the Montgomery Convention in February 1861 by seven states (South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, adding Texas in March before Lincoln's inauguration), expanded in May–July 1861 (with Virginia, Arkansas, Tennessee, North Carolina), and was disintegrated in April–May 1865. It was formed by delegations from seven slave states of the Lower South that had proclaimed their secession from the Union. After the fighting began in April, four additional slave states seceded and were admitted. Later, two slave states (Missouri and Kentucky) and two territories were given seats in the Confederate Congress. Southern California, although having some pro-Confederate sentiment, was never organized as a territory.\n\nMany southern whites had considered themselves more Southern than American and were prepared to fight for their state and their region to be independent of the larger nation. That regionalism became a Southern nationalism, or the \"Cause\". For the duration of its existence, the Confederacy underwent trial by war. The \"Southern Cause\" transcended the ideology of states' rights, tariff policy, or internal improvements. This \"Cause\" supported, or descended from, cultural and financial dependence on the South's slavery-based economy. The convergence of race and slavery, politics, and economics raised almost all South-related policy questions to the status of moral questions over way of life, commingling love of things Southern and hatred of things Yankee (the North). Not only did national political parties split, but national churches and interstate families as well divided along sectional lines as the war approached. According to historian John M. Coski,\nSouthern Democrats had chosen John Breckinridge as their candidate during the U.S. presidential election of 1860, but in no Southern state (other than South Carolina, where the legislature chose the electors) was support for him unanimous; all of the other states recorded at least some popular votes for one or more of the other three candidates (Abraham Lincoln, Stephen A. Douglas and John Bell). Support for these candidates, collectively, ranged from significant to an outright majority, with extremes running from 25% in Texas to 81% in Missouri. There were minority views everywhere, especially in the upland and plateau areas of the South, with western Virginia and eastern Tennessee of particular concentration.\n\nFollowing South Carolina's unanimous 1860 secession vote, no other Southern states considered the question until 1861, and when they did none had a unanimous vote. All had residents who cast significant numbers of Unionist votes in either the legislature, conventions, popular referendums, or in all three. Voting to remain in the Union did not necessarily mean that individuals were northern sympathizers. Once hostilities began, many of these who voted to remain in the Union, particularly in the Deep South, accepted the majority decision, and supported the Confederacy.\n\nThe American Civil War became an American tragedy, what some scholars termed the \"Brothers' War\", pitting \"brother against brother, father against son, kin against kin of every degree\".\n\nAccording to historian Avery O. Craven in 1950, the Confederate States of America was created by secessionists in Southern slave states who believed that the federal government was making them second-class citizens and refused to honor their belief that slavery was beneficial to the Negro. They judged the agent of change to be abolitionists and anti-slavery elements in the Republican Party, whom they believed used repeated insult and injury to subject them to intolerable \"humiliation and degradation\". The \"Black Republicans\" (as the Southerners called them) and their allies soon dominated the U.S. House, Senate, and Presidency. On the U.S. Supreme Court, Chief Justice Roger B. Taney (a presumed supporter of slavery) was 83 years old, and ailing.\n\nDuring the campaign for president in 1860, some secessionists threatened disunion should Lincoln (who opposed the expansion of slavery into the territories) be elected, most notably William L. Yancey. Yancey toured the North calling for secession as Stephen A. Douglas toured the South calling for union in the event of Lincoln's election. To the Secessionists the Republican intent was clear: to contain slavery within its present bounds, and, eventually, to eliminate it entirely. A Lincoln victory presented them with a momentous choice (as they saw it), even before his inauguration – \"the Union without slavery, or slavery without the Union\".\n\nThe immediate catalyst for secession was the victory of the Republican Party and the election of Abraham Lincoln as president in the 1860 elections. American Civil War historian James M. McPherson suggested that, for the Southerners, the most ominous feature of the Republican victories in the Congressional and Presidential elections of 1860 was the magnitude of those victories. Republicans captured over 60 percent of the Northern vote, and won three-fourths of its Congressional delegations. The Southern press said that such Republicans represented the anti-slavery portion of the North, \"a party founded on the single sentiment ... of hatred of African slavery\", and now the controlling power in national affairs. The \"Black Republican party\" could overwhelm conservative Yankees. \"The New Orleans Delta\" said of the Republicans, \"It is in fact, essentially, a revolutionary party\" to overthrow slavery.\n\nBy 1860, sectional disagreements between North and South relate primarily to the maintenance or expansion of slavery in the United States. Historian Drew Gilpin Faust observed that \"leaders of the secession movement across the South cited slavery as the most compelling reason for southern independence\". Although most white Southerners did not own slaves, the majority supported the institution of slavery and benefited in indirect ways from the slave society. For struggling yeomen and subsistence farmers, the slave society provided a large class of people ranked lower in the social scale than they. Secondary differences related to issues of free speech, runaway slaves, expansion into Cuba, and states' rights.\n\nHistorian Emory Thomas assessed the Confederacy's self-image by studying the correspondence sent by the Confederate government in 1861–62 to foreign governments. He found that Confederate diplomacy projected multiple contradictory self-images:\n\nIn what later became known as the Cornerstone Speech, C.S. Vice President Alexander H. Stephens declared that the \"cornerstone\" of the new government \"rest[ed] upon the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery – subordination to the superior race – is his natural and normal condition. This, our new government, is the first, in the history of the world, based upon this great physical, philosophical, and moral truth\". After the war Stephens made efforts to qualify his remarks, claiming they were extemporaneous, metaphorical, and intended to refer to public sentiment rather than \"the principles of the new Government on this subject\".\n\nFour of the seceding states, the Deep South states of South Carolina,\nMississippi, Georgia, and Texas, issued formal declarations of causes, each of which identified the threat to slaveholders' rights as the cause of, or a major cause of, secession. Georgia also claimed a general Federal policy of favoring Northern over Southern economic interests. Texas mentioned slavery 21 times, but also listed the failure of the federal government to live up to its obligations, in the original annexation agreement, to protect settlers along the exposed western frontier. Texas resolutions further stated that governments of the states and the nation were established \"exclusively by the white race, for themselves and their posterity\". They also stated that although equal civil and political rights applied to all white men, they did not apply to those of the \"African race\", further opining that the end of racial enslavement would \"bring inevitable calamities upon both [races] and desolation upon the fifteen slave-holding states\".\n\nAlabama did not provide a separate declaration of causes. Instead the Alabama ordinance stated \"the election of Abraham Lincoln ... by a sectional party, avowedly hostile to the domestic institutions and to the peace and security of the people of the State of Alabama, preceded by many and dangerous infractions of the Constitution of the United States by many of the States and people of the northern section, is a political wrong of so insulting and menacing a character as to justify the people of the State of Alabama in the adoption of prompt and decided measures for their future peace and security\". The ordinance invited \"the slaveholding States of the South, who may approve such purpose, in order to frame a provisional as well as a permanent Government upon the principles of the Constitution of the United States\" to participate in a February 4, 1861 convention in Montgomery, Alabama.\n\nThe secession ordinances of the remaining two states, Florida and Louisiana, simply declared their severing of ties with the federal Union, without stating any causes. Afterward, the Florida secession convention formed a committee to draft a declaration of causes, but the committee was discharged before completion of the task. Only an undated, untitled draft remains.\n\nFour of the Upper South states initially rejected secession until after the clash at Ft. Sumter (Virginia, Arkansas, Tennessee, and North Carolina). Virginia's ordinance stated a kinship with the slave-holding states of the Lower South, but did not name the institution itself as a primary reason for its course.\n\nArkansas's secession ordinance primarily revolved around strong objection to the use of military force to maintain the Union as its motivating factor. Prior to the outbreak of war, the Arkansas Convention had on March 20 given as their first resolution: \"The people of the Northern States have organized a political party, purely sectional in its character, the central and controlling idea of which is hostility to the institution of African slavery, as it exists in the Southern States; and that party has elected a President ... pledged to administer the Government upon principles inconsistent with the rights and subversive of the interests of the Southern States.\"\n\nNorth Carolina and Tennessee limited their ordinances to simply withdrawing, although Tennessee went so far as to make clear they wished to make no comment at all on the \"abstract doctrine of secession\".\n\nIn a message to the Confederate Congress on April 29, 1861 Jefferson Davis cited both the tariff and slavery for the South's secession.\n\nThe Fire-Eaters, calling for immediate secession, were opposed by two factions. \"Cooperationists\" in the Deep South would delay secession until several states went together, maybe in a Southern Convention. Under the influence of men such as Texas Governor Sam Houston, delay would have had the effect of sustaining the Union. \"Unionists\", especially in the Border South, often former Whigs, appealed to sentimental attachment to the United States. Southern Unionists' favorite presidential candidate was John Bell of Tennessee, sometimes running under an \"Opposition Party\" banner.\n\nMany secessionists were active politically. Governor William Henry Gist of South Carolina corresponded secretly with other Deep South governors, and most southern governors exchanged clandestine commissioners. Charleston's secessionist \"1860 Association\" published over 200,000 pamphlets to persuade the youth of the South. The most influential were: \"The Doom of Slavery\" and \"The South Alone Should Govern the South\", both by John Townsend of South Carolina; and James D. B. De Bow's \"The Interest of Slavery of the Southern Non-slaveholder\".\n\nDevelopments in South Carolina started a chain of events. The foreman of a jury refused the legitimacy of federal courts, so Federal Judge Andrew Magrath ruled that U.S. judicial authority in South Carolina was vacated. A mass meeting in Charleston celebrating the Charleston and Savannah railroad and state cooperation led to the South Carolina legislature to call for a Secession Convention. U.S. Senator James Chesnut, Jr. resigned, as did Senator James Henry Hammond.\n\nElections for Secessionist conventions were heated to \"an almost raving pitch, no one dared dissent\", said Freehling. Even once–respected voices, including the Chief Justice of South Carolina, John Belton O'Neall, lost election to the Secession Convention on a Cooperationist ticket. Across the South mobs expelled Yankees and (in Texas) executed German-Americans suspected of loyalty to the United States. Generally, seceding conventions which followed did not call for a referendum to ratify, although Texas, Arkansas, and Tennessee did, as well as Virginia's second convention. Kentucky declared neutrality, while Missouri had its own civil war until the Unionists took power and drove the Confederate legislators out of the state.\n\nIn the antebellum months, the Corwin Amendment was an unsuccessful attempt by the Congress to bring back the seceding states to the Union and to prevent the border slave states to remain. It was a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution by Ohio Congressman Thomas Corwin that would shield \"domestic institutions\" of the states (which in 1861 included slavery) from the constitutional amendment process and from abolition or interference by Congress.\n\nIt was passed by the 36th Congress on March 2, 1861. The House approved it by a vote of 133 to 65 and the United States Senate adopted it, with no changes, on a vote of 24 to 12. It was then submitted to the state legislatures for ratification. In his inaugural address Lincoln endorsed the proposed amendment.\n\nThe text was as follows:\n\nNo amendment shall be made to the Constitution which will authorize or give to Congress the power to abolish or interfere, within any State, with the domestic institutions thereof, including that of persons held to labor or service by the laws of said State.\n\nHad it been ratified by the required number of states prior to 1865, it would have made institutionalized slavery immune to the constitutional amendment procedures and to interference by Congress.\n\nThe first secession state conventions from the Deep South sent representatives to meet at the Montgomery Convention in Montgomery, Alabama, on February 4, 1861. There the fundamental documents of government were promulgated, a provisional government was established, and a representative Congress met for the Confederate States of America.\n\nThe new 'provisional' Confederate President Jefferson Davis issued a call for 100,000 men from the various states' militias to defend the newly formed Confederacy. All Federal property was seized, along with gold bullion and coining dies at the U.S. mints in Charlotte, North Carolina; Dahlonega, Georgia; and New Orleans. The Confederate capital was moved from Montgomery to Richmond, Virginia, in May 1861. On February 22, 1862, Davis was inaugurated as president with a term of six years.\n\nThe newly inaugurated Confederate administration pursued a policy of national territorial integrity, continuing earlier state efforts in 1860 and early 1861 to remove U.S. government presence from within their boundaries. These efforts included taking possession of U.S. courts, custom houses, post offices, and most notably, arsenals and forts. But after the Confederate attack and capture of Fort Sumter in April 1861, Lincoln called up 75,000 of the states' militia to muster under his command. The stated purpose was to re-occupy U.S. properties throughout the South, as the U.S. Congress had not authorized their abandonment. The resistance at Fort Sumter signaled his change of policy from that of the Buchanan Administration. Lincoln's response ignited a firestorm of emotion. The people of both North and South demanded war, and young men rushed to their colors in the hundreds of thousands. Four more states (Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Arkansas) refused Lincoln's call for troops and declared secession, while Kentucky maintained an uneasy \"neutrality\".\n\nSecessionists argued that the United States Constitution was a contract among sovereign states that could be abandoned at any time without consultation and that each state had a right to secede. After intense debates and statewide votes, seven Deep South cotton states passed secession ordinances by February 1861 (before Abraham Lincoln took office as president), while secession efforts failed in the other eight slave states. Delegates from those seven formed the CSA in February 1861, selecting Jefferson Davis as the provisional president. Unionist talk of reunion failed and Davis began raising a 100,000 man army.\n\nInitially, some secessionists may have hoped for a peaceful departure. Moderates in the Confederate Constitutional Convention included a provision against importation of slaves from Africa to appeal to the Upper South. Non-slave states might join, but the radicals secured a two-thirds hurdle for them.\n\nSeven states declared their secession from the United States before Lincoln took office on March 4, 1861. After the Confederate attack on Fort Sumter April 12, 1861, and Lincoln's subsequent call for troops on April 15, four more states declared their secession:\n\nKentucky declared neutrality but after Confederate troops moved in, the state government asked for Union troops to drive them out. The splinter Confederate state government relocated to accompany western Confederate armies and never controlled the state population. By the end of the war, 90,000 Kentuckians had fought on the side of the Union, compared to 35,000 for the Confederate States.\n\nIn Missouri, a constitutional convention was approved and delegates elected by voters. The convention rejected secession 89–1 on March 19, 1861. The governor maneuvered to take control of the St. Louis Arsenal and restrict Federal movements. This led to confrontation, and in June Federal forces drove him and the General Assembly from Jefferson City. The executive committee of the constitutional convention called the members together in July. The convention declared the state offices vacant, and appointed a Unionist interim state government. The exiled governor called a rump session of the former General Assembly together in Neosho and, on October 31, 1861, passed an ordinance of secession. It is still a matter of debate as to whether a quorum existed for this vote. The Confederate state government was unable to control very much Missouri territory. It had its capital first at Neosho, then at Cassville, before being driven out of the state. For the remainder of the war, it operated as a government in exile at Marshall, Texas.\n\nNeither Kentucky nor Missouri was declared in rebellion in Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. The Confederacy recognized the pro-Confederate claimants in both Kentucky (December 10, 1861) and Missouri (November 28, 1861) and laid claim to those states, granting them Congressional representation and adding two stars to the Confederate flag. Voting for the representatives was mostly done by Confederate soldiers from Kentucky and Missouri.\n\nThe order of secession resolutions and dates are:\n\nIn Virginia, the populous counties along the Ohio and Pennsylvania borders rejected the Confederacy. Unionists held a Convention in Wheeling in June 1861, establishing a \"restored government\" with a rump legislature, but sentiment in the region remained deeply divided. In the 50 counties that would make up the state of West Virginia, voters from 24 counties had voted for disunion in Virginia's May 23 referendum on the ordinance of secession. In the 1860 Presidential election \"Constitutional Democrat\" Breckenridge had outpolled \"Constitutional Unionist\" Bell in the 50 counties by 1,900 votes, 44% to 42%. Regardless of scholarly disputes over election procedures and results county by county, altogether they simultaneously supplied over 20,000 soldiers to each side of the conflict. Representatives for most of the counties were seated in both state legislatures at Wheeling and at Richmond for the duration of the war.\n\nAttempts to secede from the Confederacy by some counties in East Tennessee were checked by martial law. Although slave-holding Delaware and Maryland did not secede, citizens from those states exhibited divided loyalties. Regiments of Marylanders fought in Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. But overall, 24,000 men from Maryland joined the Confederate armed forces, compared to 63,000 who joined Union forces.\n\nDelaware never produced a full regiment for the Confederacy, but neither did it emancipate slaves as did Missouri and West Virginia. District of Columbia citizens made no attempts to secede and through the war years, referendums sponsored by President Lincoln approved systems of compensated emancipation and slave confiscation from \"disloyal citizens\".\n\nCitizens at Mesilla and Tucson in the southern part of New Mexico Territory formed a secession convention, which voted to join the Confederacy on March 16, 1861, and appointed Lewis Owings as the new territorial governor. They won the Battle of Mesilla and established a territorial government with Mesilla serving as its capital. The Confederacy proclaimed the Confederate Arizona Territory on February 14, 1862, north to the 34th parallel. Marcus H. MacWillie served in both Confederate Congresses as Arizona's delegate. In 1862 the Confederate New Mexico Campaign to take the northern half of the U.S. territory failed and the Confederate territorial government in exile relocated to San Antonio, Texas.\n\nConfederate supporters in the trans-Mississippi west also claimed portions of United States Indian Territory after the United States evacuated the federal forts and installations. Over half of the American Indian troops participating in the Civil War from the Indian Territory supported the Confederacy; troops and one general were enlisted from each tribe. On July 12, 1861, the Confederate government signed a treaty with both the Choctaw and Chickasaw Indian nations. After several battles Union armies took control of the territory.\n\nIndian Territory was never formally ceded into the Confederacy by American Indian councils, but like Missouri and Kentucky, the Five Civilized Nations received representation in the Confederate Congress and their citizens were integrated into regular Confederate Army units. After 1863 the tribal governments sent representatives to the Confederate Congress: Elias Cornelius Boudinot representing the Cherokee and Samuel Benton Callahan representing the Seminole and Creek people. The Cherokee Nation, aligning with the Confederacy, alleged northern violations of the Constitution, waging war against slavery commercial and political interests, abolishing slavery in the Indian Territory, and that the North intended to seize additional Indian lands.\n\nMontgomery, Alabama served as the capital of the Confederate States of America from February 4 until May 29, 1861, in the Alabama State Capitol. Six states created the Confederate States of America there on February 8, 1861. The Texas delegation was seated at the time, so it is counted in the \"original seven\" states of the Confederacy; it had no roll call vote until after its referendum made secession \"operative\". Two sessions of the Provisional Congress were held in Montgomery, adjourning May 21. The Permanent Constitution was adopted there on March 12, 1861.\n\nThe permanent capital provided for in the Confederate Constitution called for a state cession of a ten-miles square (100 square mile) district to the central government. Atlanta, which had not yet supplanted Milledgeville, Georgia as its state capital, put in a bid noting its central location and rail connections, as did Opelika, Alabama, noting its strategically interior situation, rail connections and nearby deposits of coal and iron.\n\nRichmond, Virginia was chosen for the interim capital at the Virginia State Capitol. The move was used by Vice President Stephens and others to encourage other border states to follow Virginia into the Confederacy. In the political moment it was a show of \"defiance and strength\". The war for southern independence was surely to be fought in Virginia, but it also had the largest Southern military-aged white population, with infrastructure, resources and supplies required to sustain a war. The Davis Administration's policy was that, \"It must be held at all hazards.\"\n\nThe naming of Richmond as the new capital took place on May 30, 1861, and the last two sessions of the Provisional Congress were held in the new capital. The Permanent Confederate Congress and President were elected in the states and army camps on November 6, 1861. The First Congress met in four sessions in Richmond from February 18, 1862, to February 17, 1864. The Second Congress met there in two sessions, from May 2, 1864, to March 18, 1865.\n\nAs war dragged on, Richmond became crowded with training and transfers, logistics and hospitals. Prices rose dramatically despite government efforts at price regulation. A movement in Congress led by Henry S. Foote of Tennessee argued for moving the capital from Richmond. At the approach of Federal armies in mid-1862, the government's archives were readied for removal. As the Wilderness Campaign progressed, Congress authorized Davis to remove the executive department and call Congress to session elsewhere in 1864 and again in 1865. Shortly before the end of the war, the Confederate government evacuated Richmond, planning to relocate farther south. Little came of these plans before Lee's surrender at Appomattox Court House, Virginia on April 9, 1865. Davis and most of his cabinet fled to Danville, Virginia, which served as their headquarters for about a week.\n\nUnionism was widespread in the Confederacy, especially in the mountain regions of Appalachia and the Ozarks. Unionists, led by Parson Brownlow and Senator Andrew Johnson, took control of eastern Tennessee in 1863. Unionists also attempted control over western Virginia but never effectively held more than half the counties that formed the new state of West Virginia. Union forces captured parts of coastal North Carolina, and at first were welcomed by local unionists. That changed as the occupiers became perceived as oppressive, callous, radical and favorable to the Freedmen. Occupiers engaged in pillaging, freeing of slaves, and eviction of those refusing to take or reneging on the loyalty oaths, as ex-Unionists began to support the Confederate cause.\n\nSupport for the Confederacy was perhaps weakest in Texas; Claude Elliott estimates that only a third of the population actively supported the Confederacy. Many unionists supported the Confederacy after the war began, but many others clung to their unionism throughout the war, especially in the northern counties, the German districts, and the Mexican areas. According to Ernest Wallace: \"This account of a dissatisfied Unionist minority, although historically essential, must be kept in its proper perspective, for throughout the war the overwhelming majority of the people zealously supported the Confederacy ...\" Randolph B. Campbell states, \"In spite of terrible losses and hardships, most Texans continued throughout the war to support the Confederacy as they had supported secession\". Dale Baum in his analysis of Texas politics in the era counters: \"This idea of a Confederate Texas united politically against northern adversaries was shaped more by nostalgic fantasies than by wartime realities.\" He characterizes Texas Civil War history as \"a morose story of intragovernmental rivalries coupled with wide-ranging disaffection that prevented effective implementation of state wartime policies\".\n\nIn Texas local officials harassed unionists and engaged in large-scale massacres against unionists and Germans. In Cooke County 150 suspected unionists were arrested; 25 were lynched without trial and 40 more were hanged after a summary trial. Draft resistance was widespread especially among Texans of German or Mexican descent; many of the latter went to Mexico. Potential draftees went into hiding, Confederate officials hunted them down, and many were shot.\n\nCivil liberties were of small concern in North and South. Lincoln and Davis both took a hard line against dissent. Neely explores how the Confederacy became a virtual police state with guards and patrols all about, and a domestic passport system whereby everyone needed official permission each time they wanted to travel. Over 4,000 suspected unionists were imprisoned without trial.\n\nDuring the four years of its existence under trial by war, the Confederate States of America asserted its independence and appointed dozens of diplomatic agents abroad. None were ever officially recognized by a foreign government. The United States government regarded the southern states in rebellion and so refused any formal recognition of their status.\n\nEven before Fort Sumter, U.S. Secretary of State William H. Seward issued formal instructions to the American minister to Britain, Charles Francis Adams:\nSeward instructed Adams that if the British government seemed inclined to recognize the Confederacy, or even waver in that regard, it was to receive a sharp warning, with a strong hint of war:\nThe United States government never declared war on those \"kindred and countrymen\" in the Confederacy, but conducted its military efforts beginning with a presidential proclamation issued April 15, 1861. It called for troops to recapture forts and suppress what Lincoln later called an \"insurrection and rebellion\".\n\nMid-war parleys between the two sides occurred without formal political recognition, though the laws of war predominantly governed military relationships on both sides of uniformed conflict.\n\nOn the part of the Confederacy, immediately following Fort Sumter the Confederate Congress proclaimed that \"war exists between the Confederate States and the Government of the United States, and the States and Territories thereof\". A state of war was not to formally exist between the Confederacy and those states and territories in the United States allowing slavery, although Confederate Rangers were compensated for destruction they could effect there throughout the war.\nConcerning the international status and nationhood of the Confederate States of America, in 1869 the United States Supreme Court in ruled Texas' declaration of secession was legally null and void. Jefferson Davis, former President of the Confederacy, and Alexander H. Stephens, its former Vice-President, both wrote postwar arguments in favor of secession's legality and the international legitimacy of the Government of the Confederate States of America, most notably Davis' \"The Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government\".\n\nOnce war with the United States began, the Confederacy pinned its hopes for survival on military intervention by Great Britain and France. The Confederates who had believed that \"cotton is king\" – that is, that Britain had to support the Confederacy to obtain cotton – proved mistaken. The British had stocks to last over a year and had been developing alternative sources of cotton, most notably India and Egypt. They were not about to go to war with the U.S. to acquire more cotton at the risk of losing the large quantities of food imported from the North. The Confederate government repeatedly sent delegations to Europe, but historians give them low marks for their poor diplomacy. James M. Mason went to London and John Slidell traveled to Paris. They were unofficially interviewed, but neither secured official recognition for the Confederacy.\n\nIn late 1861 the seizure of two senior Confederate diplomats aboard a British ship by the U.S. navy outraged Britain and led to a war scare in the Trent Affair. Queen Victoria insisted on giving the Americans an exit route and Lincoln took it, releasing the two diplomats. Tensions cooled, and the Confederacy gained no advantage. In recent years most historians argue that the risk of actual war over the Trent Affair was small, because it would have hurt both sides.\n\nThroughout the early years of the war, British foreign secretary Lord John Russell, Emperor Napoleon III of France, and, to a lesser extent, British Prime Minister Lord Palmerston, showed interest in recognition of the Confederacy or at least mediation of the war. William Ewart Gladstone, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer (finance minister, in office 1859–1866), whose family wealth was based on slavery, was the key Minister calling for intervention to help the Confederacy achieve independence. He failed to convince prime minister Palmerston. By September 1862 the Union victory at the Battle of Antietam, Lincoln's preliminary Emancipation Proclamation and abolitionist opposition in Britain put an end to these possibilities. The cost to Britain of a war with the U.S. would have been high: the immediate loss of American grain-shipments, the end of British exports to the U.S., and the seizure of billions of pounds invested in American securities. War would have meant higher taxes in Britain, another invasion of Canada, and full-scale worldwide attacks on the British merchant fleet. Outright recognition would have meant certain war with the United States; in mid-1862 fears of race war (as had transpired in the Haitian Revolution of 1791–1804) led to the British considering intervention for humanitarian reasons. Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation did not lead to interracial violence, let alone a bloodbath, but it did give the friends of the Union strong talking points in the arguments that raged across Britain.\n\nJohn Slidell, the Confederate States emissary to France, did succeed in negotiating a loan of $15,000,000 from Erlanger and other French capitalists. The money went to buy ironclad warships, as well as military supplies that came in with blockade runners. The British government did allow the construction of blockade runners in Britain; they were owned and operated by British financiers and sailors; a few were owned and operated by the Confederacy. The British investors' goal was to get highly profitable cotton.\n\nSeveral European nations maintained diplomats in place who had been appointed to the U.S., but no country appointed any diplomat to the Confederacy. Those nations recognized the Union and Confederate sides as belligerents. In 1863 the Confederacy expelled European diplomatic missions for advising their resident subjects to refuse to serve in the Confederate army. Both Confederate and Union agents were allowed to work openly in British territories. Some state governments in northern Mexico negotiated local agreements to cover trade on the Texas border. Pope Pius IX wrote a letter to Jefferson Davis in which he addressed Davis as the \"Honorable President of the Confederate States of America\". The Confederacy appointed Ambrose Dudley Mann as special agent to the Holy See on September 24, 1863. But the Holy See never released a formal statement supporting or recognizing the Confederacy. In November 1863, Mann met Pope Pius IX in person and received a letter supposedly addressed \"to the Illustrious and Honorable Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States of America\"; Mann had mistranslated the address. In his report to Richmond, Mann claimed a great diplomatic achievement for himself, asserting the letter was \"a positive recognition of our Government\". The letter was indeed used in propaganda, but Confederate Secretary of State Judah P. Benjamin told Mann it was \"a mere inferential recognition, unconnected with political action or the regular establishment of diplomatic relations\" and thus did not assign it the weight of formal recognition.\n\nNevertheless, the Confederacy was seen internationally as a serious attempt at nationhood, and European governments sent military observers, both official and unofficial, to assess whether there had been a \"de facto\" establishment of independence. These observers included Arthur Lyon Fremantle of the British Coldstream Guards, Fitzgerald Ross of the Austrian Hussars and Justus Scheibert of the Prussian Army. European travelers visited and wrote accounts for publication. Importantly in 1862, the Frenchman Charles Girard's \"Seven months in the rebel states during the North American War\" testified \"this government ... is no longer a trial government ... but really a normal government, the expression of popular will\".\nFremantle went on to write in his book \"Three Months in the Southern States\" that he had\nnot attempted to conceal any of the peculiarities or defects of the Southern people. Many persons will doubtless highly disapprove of some of their customs and habits in the wilder portion of the country; but I think no generous man, whatever may be his political opinions, can do otherwise than admire the courage, energy, and patriotism of the whole population, and the skill of its leaders, in this struggle against great odds. And I am also of opinion that many will agree with me in thinking that a people in which all ranks and both sexes display a unanimity and a heroism which can never have been surpassed in the history of the world, is destined, sooner or later, to become a great and independent nation.\n\nFrench Emperor Napoleon III assured Confederate diplomat John Slidell that he would make \"direct proposition\" to Britain for joint recognition. The Emperor made the same assurance to British Members of Parliament John A. Roebuck and John A. Lindsay. Roebuck in turn publicly prepared a bill to submit to Parliament June 30 supporting joint Anglo-French recognition of the Confederacy. \"Southerners had a right to be optimistic, or at least hopeful, that their revolution would prevail, or at least endure.\" Following the dual reverses at Vicksburg and Gettysburg in July 1863, the Confederates \"suffered a severe loss of confidence in themselves\", and withdrew into an interior defensive position. There would be no help from the Europeans.\n\nBy December 1864 Davis considered sacrificing slavery in order to enlist recognition and aid from Paris and London; he secretly sent Duncan F. Kenner to Europe with a message that the war was fought solely for \"the vindication of our rights to self-government and independence\" and that \"no sacrifice is too great, save that of honor\". The message stated that if the French or British governments made their recognition conditional on anything at all, the Confederacy would consent to such terms. Davis's message could not explicitly acknowledge that slavery was on the bargaining table due to still-strong domestic support for slavery among the wealthy and politically influential. European leaders all saw that the Confederacy was on the verge of total defeat.\n\nThe great majority of young white men voluntarily joined Confederate national or state military units. Perman (2010) says historians are of two minds on why millions of men seemed so eager to fight, suffer and die over four years:\nCivil War historian E. Merton Coulter noted that for those who would secure its independence, \"The Confederacy was unfortunate in its failure to work out a general strategy for the whole war\". Aggressive strategy called for offensive force concentration. Defensive strategy sought dispersal to meet demands of locally minded governors. The controlling philosophy evolved into a combination \"dispersal with a defensive concentration around Richmond\". The Davis administration considered the war purely defensive, a \"simple demand that the people of the United States would cease to war upon us\". Historian James M. McPherson is a critic of Lee's Offensive Strategy: \"Lee pursued a faulty military strategy that ensured Confederate defeat\".\n\nAs the Confederate government lost control of territory in campaign after campaign, it was said that \"the vast size of the Confederacy would make its conquest impossible\". The enemy would be struck down by the same elements which so often debilitated or destroyed visitors and transplants in the South. Heat exhaustion, sunstroke, endemic diseases such as malaria and typhoid would match the destructive effectiveness of the Moscow winter on the invading armies of Napoleon.\n\nEarly in the war both sides believed that one great battle would decide the conflict; the Confederate won a great victory at the First Battle of Bull Run, also known as First Manassas (the name used by Confederate forces). It drove the Confederate people \"insane with joy\"; the public demanded a forward movement to capture Washington, relocate the Confederate capital there, and admit Maryland to the Confederacy. A council of war by the victorious Confederate generals decided not to advance against larger numbers of fresh Federal troops in defensive positions. Davis did not countermand it. Following the Confederate incursion halted at the Battle of Antietam in October 1862, generals proposed concentrating forces from state commands to re-invade the north. Nothing came of it. Again in early 1863 at his incursion into Pennsylvania, Lee requested of Davis that Beauregard simultaneously attack Washington with troops taken from the Carolinas. But the troops there remained in place during the Gettysburg Campaign.\n\nThe eleven states of the Confederacy were outnumbered by the North about four to one in white men of military age. It was overmatched far more in military equipment, industrial facilities, railroads for transport, and wagons supplying the front.\n\nConfederate military policy innovated to slow the invaders, but at heavy cost to the Southern infrastructure. The Confederates burned bridges, laid land mines in the roads, and made harbors inlets and inland waterways unusable with sunken mines (called \"torpedos\" at the time). Coulter reports:\nThe Confederacy relied on external sources for war materials. The first came from trade with the enemy. \"Vast amounts of war supplies\" came through Kentucky, and thereafter, western armies were \"to a very considerable extent\" provisioned with illicit trade via Federal agents and northern private traders. But that trade was interrupted in the first year of war by Admiral Porter's river gunboats as they gained dominance along navigable rivers north–south and east–west. Overseas blockade running then came to be of \"outstanding importance\". On April 17, President Davis called on privateer raiders, the \"militia of the sea\", to make war on U.S. seaborne commerce. Despite noteworthy effort, over the course of the war the Confederacy was found unable to match the Union in ships and seamanship, materials and marine construction.\n\nPerhaps the greatest obstacle to success in the 19th-century warfare of mass armies was the Confederacy's lack of manpower, and sufficient numbers of disciplined, equipped troops in the field at the point of contact with the enemy. During the winter of 1862–63, Lee observed that none of his famous victories had resulted in the destruction of the opposing army. He lacked reserve troops to exploit an advantage on the battlefield as Napoleon had done. Lee explained, \"More than once have most promising opportunities been lost for want of men to take advantage of them, and victory itself had been made to put on the appearance of defeat, because our diminished and exhausted troops have been unable to renew a successful struggle against fresh numbers of the enemy.\"\n\nThe military armed forces of the Confederacy comprised three branches: Army, Navy and Marine Corps.\n\nThe Confederate military leadership included many veterans from the United States Army and United States Navy who had resigned their Federal commissions and had won appointment to senior positions in the Confederate armed forces. Many had served in the Mexican–American War (including Robert E. Lee and Jefferson Davis), but some such as Leonidas Polk (who graduated from West Point but did not serve in the Army) had little or no experience.\n\nThe Confederate officer corps consisted of men from both slave-owning and non-slave-owning families. The Confederacy appointed junior and field grade officers by election from the enlisted ranks. Although no Army service academy was established for the Confederacy, some colleges (such as The Citadel and Virginia Military Institute) maintained cadet corps that trained Confederate military leadership. A naval academy was established at Drewry's Bluff, Virginia in 1863, but no midshipmen graduated before the Confederacy's end.\n\nThe soldiers of the Confederate armed forces consisted mainly of white males aged between 16 and 28. The median year of birth was 1838, so half the soldiers were 23 or older by 1861. In early 1862, the Confederate Army was allowed to disintegrate for two months following expiration of short-term enlistments. A majority of those in uniform would not re-enlist following their one-year commitment, so on April 16, 1862, the Confederate Congress enacted the first mass conscription on the North American continent. (The U.S. Congress followed a year later on March 3, 1863, with the Enrollment Act.) Rather than a universal draft, the initial program was a selective service with physical, religious, professional and industrial exemptions. These were narrowed as the war progressed. Initially substitutes were permitted, but by December 1863 these were disallowed. In September 1862 the age limit was increased from 35 to 45 and by February 1864, all men under 18 and over 45 were conscripted to form a reserve for state defense inside state borders. By March 1864, the Superintendent of Conscription reported that all across the Confederacy, every officer in constituted authority, man and woman, \"engaged in opposing the enrolling officer in the execution of his duties\". Although challenged in the state courts, the Confederate State Supreme Courts routinely rejected legal challenges to conscription.\n\nMany thousands of slaves served as laborers, cooks, and pioneers. Some freed blacks and men of color served in local state militia units of the Confederacy, primarily in Louisiana and South Carolina, but their officers deployed them for \"local defense, not combat\". Depleted by casualties and desertions, the military suffered chronic manpower shortages. In early 1865, the Confederate Congress, influenced by the public support by General Lee, approved the recruitment of black infantry units. Contrary to Lee's and Davis's recommendations, the Congress refused \"to guarantee the freedom of black volunteers\". No more than two hundred black combat troops were ever raised.\n\nThe immediate onset of war meant that it was fought by the \"Provisional\" or \"Volunteer Army\". State governors resisted concentrating a national effort. Several wanted a strong state army for self-defense. Others feared large \"Provisional\" armies answering only to Davis. When filling the Confederate government's call for 100,000 men, another 200,000 were turned away by accepting only those enlisted \"for the duration\" or twelve-month volunteers who brought their own arms or horses.\n\nIt was important to raise troops; it was just as important to provide capable officers to command them. With few exceptions the Confederacy secured excellent general officers. Efficiency in the lower officers was \"greater than could have been reasonably expected\". As with the Federals, political appointees could be indifferent. Otherwise, the officer corps was governor-appointed or elected by unit enlisted. Promotion to fill vacancies was made internally regardless of merit, even if better officers were immediately available.\n\nAnticipating the need for more \"duration\" men, in January 1862 Congress provided for company level recruiters to return home for two months, but their efforts met little success on the heels of Confederate battlefield defeats in February. Congress allowed for Davis to require numbers of recruits from each governor to supply the volunteer shortfall. States responded by passing their own draft laws.\n\nThe veteran Confederate army of early 1862 was mostly twelve-month volunteers with terms about to expire. Enlisted reorganization elections disintegrated the army for two months. Officers pleaded with the ranks to re-enlist, but a majority did not. Those remaining elected majors and colonels whose performance led to officer review boards in October. The boards caused a \"rapid and widespread\" thinning out of 1700 incompetent officers. Troops thereafter would elect only second lieutenants.\n\nIn early 1862, the popular press suggested the Confederacy required a million men under arms. But veteran soldiers were not re-enlisting, and earlier secessionist volunteers did not reappear to serve in war. One Macon, Georgia, newspaper asked how two million brave fighting men of the South were about to be overcome by four million northerners who were said to be cowards.\n\nThe Confederacy passed the first American law of national conscription on April 16, 1862. The white males of the Confederate States from 18 to 35 were declared members of the Confederate army for three years, and all men then enlisted were extended to a three-year term. They would serve only in units and under officers of their state. Those under 18 and over 35 could substitute for conscripts, in September those from 35 to 45 became conscripts. The cry of \"rich man's war and a poor man's fight\" led Congress to abolish the substitute system altogether in December 1863. All principals benefiting earlier were made eligible for service. By February 1864, the age bracket was made 17 to 50, those under eighteen and over forty-five to be limited to in-state duty.\n\nConfederate conscription was not universal; it was a selective service. The First Conscription Act of April 1862 exempted occupations related to transportation, communication, industry, ministers, teaching and physical fitness. The Second Conscription Act of October 1862 expanded exemptions in industry, agriculture and conscientious objection. Exemption fraud proliferated in medical examinations, army furloughs, churches, schools, apothecaries and newspapers.\n\nRich men's sons were appointed to the socially outcast \"overseer\" occupation, but the measure was received in the country with \"universal odium\". The legislative vehicle was the controversial Twenty Negro Law that specifically exempted one white overseer or owner for every plantation with at least 20 slaves. Backpedalling six months later, Congress provided overseers under 45 could be exempted only if they held the occupation before the first Conscription Act. The number of officials under state exemptions appointed by state Governor patronage expanded significantly. By law, substitutes could not be subject to conscription, but instead of adding to Confederate manpower, unit officers in the field reported that over-50 and under-17-year-old substitutes made up to 90% of the desertions.\nThe Conscription Act of February 1864 \"radically changed the whole system\" of selection. It abolished industrial exemptions, placing detail authority in President Davis. As the shame of conscription was greater than a felony conviction, the system brought in \"about as many volunteers as it did conscripts.\" Many men in otherwise \"bombproof\" positions were enlisted in one way or another, nearly 160,000 additional volunteers and conscripts in uniform. Still there was shirking. To administer the draft, a Bureau of Conscription was set up to use state officers, as state Governors would allow. It had a checkered career of \"contention, opposition and futility\". Armies appointed alternative military \"recruiters\" to bring in the out-of-uniform 17–50-year-old conscripts and deserters. Nearly 3000 officers were tasked with the job. By late 1864, Lee was calling for more troops. \"Our ranks are constantly diminishing by battle and disease, and few recruits are received; the consequences are inevitable.\" By March 1865 conscription was to be administered by generals of the state reserves calling out men over 45 and under 18 years old. All exemptions were abolished. These regiments were assigned to recruit conscripts ages 17–50, recover deserters, and repel enemy cavalry raids. The service retained men who had lost but one arm or a leg in home guards. Then, in April 1865, Lee surrendered an army of 50,000. Conscription had been a failure.\n\nThe survival of the Confederacy depended on a strong base of civilians and soldiers devoted to victory. The soldiers performed well, though increasing numbers deserted in the last year of fighting, and the Confederacy never succeeded in replacing casualties as the Union could. The civilians, although enthusiastic in 1861–62, seem to have lost faith in the future of the Confederacy by 1864, and instead looked to protect their homes and communities. As Rable explains, \"This contraction of civic vision was more than a crabbed libertarianism; it represented an increasingly widespread disillusionment with the Confederate experiment.\"\n\nThe American Civil War broke out in April 1861 with a Confederate victory at the Battle of Fort Sumter in Charleston.\n\nIn January, President James Buchanan had attempted to resupply the garrison with the steamship, \"Star of the West\", but Confederate artillery drove it away. In March, President Lincoln notified South Carolina Governor Pickens that without Confederate resistance to the resupply there would be no military reinforcement without further notice, but Lincoln prepared to force resupply if it were not allowed. Confederate President Davis, in cabinet, decided to seize Fort Sumter before the relief fleet arrived, and on April 12, 1861, General Beauregard forced its surrender.\n\nFollowing Sumter, Lincoln directed states to provide 75,000 troops for three months to recapture the Charleston Harbor forts and all other federal property. This emboldened secessionists in Virginia, Arkansas, Tennessee and North Carolina to secede rather than provide troops to march into neighboring Southern states. In May, Federal troops crossed into Confederate territory along the entire border from the Chesapeake Bay to New Mexico. The first battles were Confederate victories at Big Bethel (Bethel Church, Virginia), First Bull Run (First Manassas) in Virginia July and in August, Wilson's Creek (Oak Hills) in Missouri. At all three, Confederate forces could not follow up their victory due to inadequate supply and shortages of fresh troops to exploit their successes. Following each battle, Federals maintained a military presence and occupied Washington, DC; Fort Monroe, Virginia; and Springfield, Missouri. Both North and South began training up armies for major fighting the next year. Union General George B. McClellan's forces gained possession of much of northwestern Virginia in mid-1861, concentrating on towns and roads; the interior was too large to control and became the center of guerrilla activity. General Robert E. Lee was defeated at Cheat Mountain in September and no serious Confederate advance in western Virginia occurred until the next year.\n\nMeanwhile, the Union Navy seized control of much of the Confederate coastline from Virginia to South Carolina. It took over plantations and the abandoned slaves. Federals there began a war-long policy of burning grain supplies up rivers into the interior wherever they could not occupy. The Union Navy began a blockade of the major southern ports and prepared an invasion of Louisiana to capture New Orleans in early 1862.\n\nThe victories of 1861 were followed by a series of defeats east and west in early 1862. To restore the Union by military force, the Federal strategy was to (1) secure the Mississippi River, (2) seize or close Confederate ports, and (3) march on Richmond. To secure independence, the Confederate intent was to (1) repel the invader on all fronts, costing him blood and treasure, and (2) carry the war into the North by two offensives in time to affect the mid-term elections.\nMuch of northwestern Virginia was under Federal control.\nIn February and March, most of Missouri and Kentucky were Union \"occupied, consolidated, and used as staging areas for advances further South\". Following the repulse of Confederate counter-attack at the Battle of Shiloh, Tennessee, permanent Federal occupation expanded west, south and east. Confederate forces repositioned south along the Mississippi River to Memphis, Tennessee, where at the naval Battle of Memphis, its River Defense Fleet was sunk. Confederates withdrew from northern Mississippi and northern Alabama. New Orleans was captured April 29 by a combined Army-Navy force under U.S. Admiral David Farragut, and the Confederacy lost control of the mouth of the Mississippi River. It had to concede extensive agricultural resources that had supported the Union's sea-supplied logistics base.\n\nAlthough Confederates had suffered major reverses everywhere, as of the end of April the Confederacy still controlled territory holding 72% of its population. Federal forces disrupted Missouri and Arkansas; they had broken through in western Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee and Louisiana. Along the Confederacy's shores, Union forces had closed ports and made garrisoned lodgments on every coastal Confederate state except Alabama and Texas. Although scholars sometimes assess the Union blockade as ineffectual under international law until the last few months of the war, from the first months it disrupted Confederate privateers, making it \"almost impossible to bring their prizes into Confederate ports\". British firms developed small fleets of blockade running companies, such as John Fraser and Company, and the Ordnance Department secured its own blockade runners for dedicated munitions cargoes.\n\nDuring the Civil War fleets of armored warships were deployed for the first time in sustained blockades at sea. After some success against the Union blockade, in March the ironclad CSS \"Virginia\" was forced into port and burned by Confederates at their retreat. Despite several attempts mounted from their port cities, CSA naval forces were unable to break the Union blockade. Attempts were made by Commodore Josiah Tattnall's ironclads from Savannah in 1862 with the CSS \"Atlanta\". Secretary of the Navy Stephen Mallory placed his hopes in a European-built ironclad fleet, but they were never realized. On the other hand, four new English-built commerce raiders served the Confederacy, and several fast blockade runners were sold in Confederate ports. They were converted into commerce-raiding cruisers, and manned by their British crews.\n\nIn the east, Union forces could not close on Richmond. General McClellan landed his army on the Lower Peninsula of Virginia. Lee subsequently ended that threat from the east, then Union General John Pope attacked overland from the north only to be repulsed at Second Bull Run (Second Manassas). Lee's strike north was turned back at Antietam MD, then Union Major General Ambrose Burnside's offensive was disastrously ended at Fredericksburg VA in December. Both armies then turned to winter quarters to recruit and train for the coming spring.\n\nIn an attempt to seize the initiative, reprovision, protect farms in mid-growing season and influence U.S. Congressional elections, two major Confederate incursions into Union territory had been launched in August and September 1862. Both Braxton Bragg's invasion of Kentucky and Lee's invasion of Maryland were decisively repulsed, leaving Confederates in control of but 63% of its population. Civil War scholar Allan Nevins argues that 1862 was the strategic high-water mark of the Confederacy. The failures of the two invasions were attributed to the same irrecoverable shortcomings: lack of manpower at the front, lack of supplies including serviceable shoes, and exhaustion after long marches without adequate food. Also in September Confederate General William W. Loring pushed Federal forces from Charleston, Virginia, and the Kanawha Valley in western Virginia, but lacking re-inforcements Loring abandoned his position and by November the region was back in Federal control.\n\nThe failed Middle Tennessee campaign was ended January 2, 1863, at the inconclusive Battle of Stones River (Murfreesboro), both sides losing the largest percentage of casualties suffered during the war. It was followed by another strategic withdrawal by Confederate forces. The Confederacy won a significant victory April 1863, repulsing the Federal advance on Richmond at Chancellorsville, but the Union consolidated positions along the Virginia coast and the Chesapeake Bay.\n\nWithout an effective answer to Federal gunboats, river transport and supply, the Confederacy lost the Mississippi River following the capture of Vicksburg, Mississippi, and Port Hudson in July, ending Southern access to the trans-Mississippi West. July brought short-lived counters, Morgan's Raid into Ohio and the New York City draft riots. Robert E. Lee's strike into Pennsylvania was repulsed at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania despite Pickett's famous charge and other acts of valor. Southern newspapers assessed the campaign as \"The Confederates did not gain a victory, neither did the enemy.\"\n\nSeptember and November left Confederates yielding Chattanooga, Tennessee, the gateway to the lower south. For the remainder of the war fighting was restricted inside the South, resulting in a slow but continuous loss of territory. In early 1864, the Confederacy still controlled 53% of its population, but it withdrew further to reestablish defensive positions. Union offensives continued with Sherman's March to the Sea to take Savannah and Grant's Wilderness Campaign to encircle Richmond and besiege Lee's army at Petersburg.\n\nIn April 1863, the C.S. Congress authorized a uniformed Volunteer Navy, many of whom were British. Wilmington and Charleston had more shipping while \"blockaded\" than before the beginning of hostilities. The Confederacy had altogether eighteen commerce destroying cruisers, which seriously disrupted Federal commerce at sea and increased shipping insurance rates 900%. Commodore Tattnall unsuccessfully attempted to break the Union blockade on the Savannah River in Georgia with an ironclad again in 1863. Beginning in April 1864 the ironclad CSS \"Albemarle\" engaged Union gunboats and sank or cleared them for six months on the Roanoke River North Carolina. The Federals closed Mobile Bay by sea-based amphibious assault in August, ending Gulf coast trade east of the Mississippi River. In December, the Battle of Nashville ended Confederate operations in the western theater.\n\nLarge numbers of families relocated to safer places, usually remote rural areas, bringing along household slaves if they had any. Mary Massey argues these elite exiles introduced an element of defeatism into the southern outlook.\n\nThe first three months of 1865 saw the Federal Carolinas Campaign, devastating a wide swath of the remaining Confederate heartland. The \"breadbasket of the Confederacy\" in the Great Valley of Virginia was occupied by Philip Sheridan. The Union Blockade captured Fort Fisher NC, and Sherman finally took Charleston SC by land attack.\n\nThe Confederacy controlled no ports, harbors or navigable rivers. Railroads were captured or had ceased operating. Its major food producing regions had been war-ravaged or occupied. Its administration survived in only three pockets of territory holding one-third its population. Its armies were defeated or disbanding. At the February 1865 Hampton Roads Conference with Lincoln, senior Confederate officials rejected his invitation to restore the Union with compensation for emancipated slaves. The three pockets of unoccupied Confederacy were southern Virginia-North Carolina, central Alabama-Florida, and Texas, the latter two areas less from any notion of resistance than from the disinterest of Federal forces to occupy them. The Davis policy was independence or nothing, while Lee's army was wracked by disease and desertion, barely holding the trenches defending Jefferson Davis' capital.\n\nThe Confederacy's last remaining blockade-running port, Wilmington, North Carolina, was lost. When the Union broke through Lee's lines at Petersburg, Richmond fell immediately. Lee surrendered the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House, Virginia, on April 9, 1865. \"The Surrender\" marked the end of the Confederacy.\nThe CSS \"Stonewall\" sailed from Europe to break the Union blockade in March; on making Havana, Cuba it surrendered. Some high officials escaped to Europe, but President Davis was captured May 10; all remaining Confederate land forces surrendered by June 1865. The U.S. Army took control of the Confederate areas without post-surrender insurgency or guerrilla warfare against them, but peace was subsequently marred by a great deal of local violence, feuding and revenge killings. The last confederate military unit, the commerce raider CSS \"Shenandoah\", surrendered on November 6, 1865 in Liverpool.\n\nHistorian Gary Gallagher concluded that the Confederacy capitulated in early 1865 because northern armies crushed \"organized southern military resistance\". The Confederacy's population, soldier and civilian, had suffered material hardship and social disruption. They had expended and extracted a profusion of blood and treasure until collapse; \"the end had come\". Jefferson Davis' assessment in 1890 determined, \"With the capture of the capital, the dispersion of the civil authorities, the surrender of the armies in the field, and the arrest of the President, the Confederate States of America disappeared ... their history henceforth became a part of the history of the United States.\"\n\nWhen the war ended over 14,000 Confederates petitioned President Johnson for a pardon; he was generous in giving them out. He issued a general amnesty to all Confederate participants in the \"late Civil War\" in 1868. Congress passed additional Amnesty Acts in May 1866 with restrictions on office holding, and the Amnesty Act in May 1872 lifting those restrictions. There was a great deal of discussion in 1865 about bringing treason trials, especially against Jefferson Davis. There was no consensus in President Johnson's cabinet and there were no treason trials against anyone. In the case of Davis there was a strong possibility of acquittal which would have been humiliating for the government.\n\nDavis was indicted for treason but never tried; he was released from prison on bail in May 1867. The amnesty of December 25, 1868, by President Johnson eliminated any possibility of Jefferson Davis (or anyone else associated with the Confederacy) standing trial for treason.\n\nHenry Wirz, the commandant of a notorious prisoner-of-war camp near Andersonville, Georgia, was tried and convicted by a military court, and executed on November 10, 1865. The charges against him involved conspiracy and cruelty, not treason.\n\nThe U.S. government began a decade-long process known as Reconstruction which attempted to resolve the political and constitutional issues of the Civil War. The priorities were: to guarantee that Confederate nationalism and slavery were ended, to ratify and enforce the Thirteenth Amendment which outlawed slavery; the Fourteenth which guaranteed dual U.S. and state citizenship to all native-born residents, regardless of race; and the Fifteenth, which made it illegal to deny the right to vote because of race.\n\nBy 1877, the Compromise of 1877 ended Reconstruction in the former Confederate states. Federal troops were withdrawn from the South, where conservative white Southern Democrats had already regained political control of state governments, often through extreme violence and fraud to suppress black voting. Confederate veterans had been temporarily disenfranchised by Reconstruction policy. The prewar South had many rich areas; the war left the entire region economically devastated by military action, ruined infrastructure, and exhausted resources. Continuing to be dependent on an agricultural economy and resisting investment in infrastructure, the region remained dominated by the planter elite into the 20th century. After 1890 the Democratic-dominated legislatures worked to secure their control by passing new constitutions and amendments at the turn of the 20th century that disenfranchised most blacks and many poor whites. This exclusion of blacks from the political system, and great weakening of the Republican Party, was generally maintained until the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The Solid South of the early 20th century was built on white Democratic control of politics. The region did not achieve national levels of prosperity until long after World War II.\n\nIn \"Texas v. White\", the United States Supreme Court ruled – by a 5–3 majority – that Texas had remained a state ever since it first joined the Union, despite claims that it joined the Confederate States of America. In this case, the court held that the Constitution did not permit a state to unilaterally secede from the United States. Further, that the ordinances of secession, and all the acts of the legislatures within seceding states intended to give effect to such ordinances, were \"absolutely null\", under the Constitution. This case settled the law that applied to all questions regarding state legislation during the war. Furthermore, it decided one of the \"central constitutional questions\" of the Civil War: The Union is perpetual and indestructible, as a matter of constitutional law. In declaring that no state could leave the Union, \"except through revolution or through consent of the States\", it was \"explicitly repudiating the position of the Confederate states that the United States was a voluntary compact between sovereign states\".\n\nHistorian Frank Lawrence Owsley argued that the Confederacy \"died of states' rights\". The central government was denied requisitioned soldiers and money by governors and state legislatures because they feared that Richmond would encroach on the rights of the states. Georgia's governor Joseph Brown warned of a secret conspiracy by Jefferson Davis to destroy states' rights and individual liberty. The first conscription act in North America authorizing Davis to draft soldiers was said to be the \"essence of military despotism\".\nVice President Alexander H. Stephens feared losing the very form of republican government. Allowing President Davis to threaten \"arbitrary arrests\" to draft hundreds of governor-appointed \"bomb-proof\" bureaucrats conferred \"more power than the English Parliament had ever bestowed on the king. History proved the dangers of such unchecked authority.\" The abolishment of draft exemptions for newspaper editors was interpreted as an attempt by the Confederate government to muzzle presses, such as the Raleigh NC \"Standard\", to control elections and to suppress the peace meetings there. As Rable concludes, \"For Stephens, the essence of patriotism, the heart of the Confederate cause, rested on an unyielding commitment to traditional rights\" without considerations of military necessity, pragmatism or compromise.\n\nIn 1863 governor Pendleton Murrah of Texas determined that state troops were required for defense against Plains Indians and Union forces that might attack from Kansas. He refused to send his soldiers to the East. Governor Zebulon Vance of North Carolina showed intense opposition to conscription, limiting recruitment success. Vance's faith in states' rights drove him into repeated, stubborn opposition to the Davis administration.\n\nDespite political differences within the Confederacy, no national political parties were formed because they were seen as illegitimate. \"Anti-partyism became an article of political faith.\" Without a two-party system building alternative sets of national leaders, electoral protests tended to be narrowly state-based, \"negative, carping and petty\". The 1863 mid-term elections became mere expressions of futile and frustrated dissatisfaction. According to historian David M. Potter, this lack of a functioning two-party system caused \"real and direct damage\" to the Confederate war effort since it prevented the formulation of any effective alternatives to the conduct of the war by the Davis administration.\n\nThe enemies of President Davis proposed that the Confederacy \"died of Davis\". He was unfavorably compared to George Washington by critics such as Edward Alfred Pollard, editor of the most influential newspaper the \"Richmond Examiner\". Coulter summarizes, \"The American Revolution had its Washington; the Southern Revolution had its Davis ... one succeeded and the other failed.\" Beyond the early honeymoon period, Davis was never popular. He unwittingly caused much internal dissension from early on. His ill health and temporary bouts of blindness disabled him for days at a time.\n\nCoulter says Davis was heroic and his will was indomitable. But his \"tenacity, determination, and will power\" stirred up lasting opposition of enemies Davis could not shake. He failed to overcome \"petty leaders of the states\" who made the term \"Confederacy\" into a label for tyranny and oppression, denying the \"Stars and Bars\" from becoming a symbol of larger patriotic service and sacrifice. Instead of campaigning to develop nationalism and gain support for his administration, he rarely courted public opinion, assuming an aloofness, \"almost like an Adams\".\n\nEscott argues that Davis was unable to mobilize Confederate nationalism in support of his government effectively, and especially failed to appeal to the small farmers who comprised the bulk of the population. In addition to the problems caused by states rights, Escott also emphasizes that the widespread opposition to any strong central government combined with the vast difference in wealth between the slave-owning class and the small farmers created insolvable dilemmas when the Confederate survival presupposed a strong central government backed by a united populace. The prewar claim that white solidarity was necessary to provide a unified Southern voice in Washington no longer held. Davis failed to build a network of supporters who would speak up when he came under criticism, and he repeatedly alienated governors and other state-based leaders by demanding centralized control of the war effort.\n\nDavis was not an efficient administrator. He attended to too many details. He protected his friends after their failures were obvious. He spent too much time on military affairs versus his civic responsibilities. Coulter concludes he was not the ideal leader for the Southern Revolution, but he showed \"fewer weaknesses than any other\" contemporary character available for the role. Robert E. Lee's assessment of Davis as President was, \"I knew of none that could have done as well.\"\n\nThe Southern leaders met in Montgomery, Alabama, to write their constitution. Much of the Confederate States Constitution replicated the United States Constitution verbatim, but it contained several explicit protections of the institution of slavery including provisions for the recognition and protection of slavery in any territory of the Confederacy. It maintained the ban on international slave-trading while protecting the existing internal trade of slaves among slaveholding states.\n\nIn certain areas, the Confederate Constitution gave greater powers to the states (or curtailed the powers of the central government more) than the U.S. Constitution of the time did, but in other areas, the states lost rights they had under the U.S. Constitution. Although the Confederate Constitution, like the U.S. Constitution, contained a commerce clause, the Confederate version prohibited the central government from using revenues collected in one state for funding internal improvements in another state. The Confederate Constitution's equivalent to the U.S. Constitution's general welfare clause prohibited protective tariffs (but allowed tariffs for providing domestic revenue), and spoke of \"carry[ing] on the Government of the Confederate States\" rather than providing for the \"general welfare\". State legislatures had the power to impeach officials of the Confederate government in some cases. On the other hand, the Confederate Constitution contained a Necessary and Proper Clause and a Supremacy Clause that essentially duplicated the respective clauses of the U.S. Constitution. The Confederate Constitution also incorporated each of the 12 amendments to the U.S. Constitution that had been ratified up to that point.\n\nThe Confederate Constitution did not specifically include a provision allowing states to secede; the Preamble spoke of each state \"acting in its sovereign and independent character\" but also of the formation of a \"permanent federal government\". During the debates on drafting the Confederate Constitution, one proposal would have allowed states to secede from the Confederacy. The proposal was tabled with only the South Carolina delegates voting in favor of considering the motion. The Confederate Constitution also explicitly denied States the power to bar slaveholders from other parts of the Confederacy from bringing their slaves into any state of the Confederacy or to interfere with the property rights of slave owners traveling between different parts of the Confederacy. In contrast with the language of the United States Constitution, the Confederate Constitution overtly asked God's blessing (\"... invoking the favor and guidance of Almighty God ...\").\n\nThe Montgomery Convention to establish the Confederacy and its executive met on February 4, 1861. Each state as a sovereignty had one vote, with the same delegation size as it held in the U.S. Congress, and generally 41 to 50 members attended. Offices were \"provisional\", limited to a term not to exceed one year. One name was placed in nomination for president, one for vice president. Both were elected unanimously, 6–0.\n\nJefferson Davis was elected provisional president. His U.S. Senate resignation speech greatly impressed with its clear rationale for secession and his pleading for a peaceful departure from the Union to independence. Although he had made it known that he wanted to be commander-in-chief of the Confederate armies, when elected, he assumed the office of Provisional President. Three candidates for provisional Vice President were under consideration the night before the February 9 election. All were from Georgia, and the various delegations meeting in different places determined two would not do, so Alexander H. Stephens was elected unanimously provisional Vice President, though with some privately held reservations. Stephens was inaugurated February 11, Davis February 18.\n\nDavis and Stephens were elected President and Vice President, unopposed on November 6, 1861. They were inaugurated on February 22, 1862.\n\nHistorian E. M. Coulter observed, \"No president of the U.S. ever had a more difficult task.\" Washington was inaugurated in peacetime. Lincoln inherited an established government of long standing. The creation of the Confederacy was accomplished by men who saw themselves as fundamentally conservative. Although they referred to their \"Revolution\", it was in their eyes more a counter-revolution against changes away from their understanding of U.S. founding documents. In Davis' inauguration speech, he explained the Confederacy was not a French-like revolution, but a transfer of rule. The Montgomery Convention had assumed all the laws of the United States until superseded by the Confederate Congress.\n\nThe Permanent Constitution provided for a President of the Confederate States of America, elected to serve a six-year term but without the possibility of re-election. Unlike the United States Constitution, the Confederate Constitution gave the president the ability to subject a bill to a line item veto, a power also held by some state governors.\n\nThe Confederate Congress could overturn either the general or the line item vetoes with the same two-thirds votes required in the U.S. Congress. In addition, appropriations not specifically requested by the executive branch required passage by a two-thirds vote in both houses of Congress. The only person to serve as president was Jefferson Davis, due to the Confederacy being defeated before the completion of his term.\n\nThe only two \"formal, national, functioning, civilian administrative bodies\" in the Civil War South were the Jefferson Davis administration and the Confederate Congresses. The Confederacy was begun by the Provisional Congress in Convention at Montgomery, Alabama on February 28, 1861. It had one vote per state in a unicameral assembly.\n\nThe Permanent Confederate Congress was elected and began its first session February 18, 1862. The Permanent Congress for the Confederacy followed the United States forms with a bicameral legislature. The Senate had two per state, twenty-six Senators. The House numbered 106 representatives apportioned by free and slave populations within each state. Two Congresses sat in six sessions until March 18, 1865.\n\nThe political influences of the civilian, soldier vote and appointed representatives reflected divisions of political geography of a diverse South. These in turn changed over time relative to Union occupation and disruption, the war impact on local economy, and the course of the war. Without political parties, key candidate identification related to adopting secession before or after Lincoln's call for volunteers to retake Federal property. Previous party affiliation played a part in voter selection, predominantly secessionist Democrat or unionist Whig.\n\nThe absence of political parties made individual roll call voting all the more important, as the Confederate \"freedom of roll-call voting [was] unprecedented in American legislative history. Key issues throughout the life of the Confederacy related to (1) suspension of habeas corpus, (2) military concerns such as control of state militia, conscription and exemption, (3) economic and fiscal policy including impressment of slaves, goods and scorched earth, and (4) support of the Jefferson Davis administration in its foreign affairs and negotiating peace.\n\nFor the first year, the unicameral Provisional Confederate Congress functioned as the Confederacy's legislative branch.\n\n\n\n\nThe Confederate Constitution outlined a judicial branch of the government, but the ongoing war and resistance from states-rights advocates, particularly on the question of whether it would have appellate jurisdiction over the state courts, prevented the creation or seating of the \"Supreme Court of the Confederate States;\" the state courts generally continued to operate as they had done, simply recognizing the Confederate States as the national government.\n\nConfederate district courts were authorized by Article III, Section 1, of the Confederate Constitution, and President Davis appointed judges within the individual states of the Confederate States of America. In many cases, the same US Federal District Judges were appointed as Confederate States District Judges. Confederate district courts began reopening in early 1861, handling many of the same type cases as had been done before. Prize cases, in which Union ships were captured by the Confederate Navy or raiders and sold through court proceedings, were heard until the blockade of southern ports made this impossible. After a Sequestration Act was passed by the Confederate Congress, the Confederate district courts heard many cases in which enemy aliens (typically Northern absentee landlords owning property in the South) had their property sequestered (seized) by Confederate Receivers.\n\nWhen the matter came before the Confederate court, the property owner could not appear because he was unable to travel across the front lines between Union and Confederate forces. Thus, the District Attorney won the case by default, the property was typically sold, and the money used to further the Southern war effort. Eventually, because there was no Confederate Supreme Court, sharp attorneys like South Carolina's Edward McCrady began filing appeals. This prevented their clients' property from being sold until a supreme court could be constituted to hear the appeal, which never occurred. Where Federal troops gained control over parts of the Confederacy and re-established civilian government, US district courts sometimes resumed jurisdiction.\n\nSupreme Court – not established.\n\nDistrict Courts – judges\n\nWhen the Confederacy was formed and its seceding states broke from the Union, it was at once confronted with the arduous task of providing its citizens with a mail delivery system, and, in the midst of the American Civil War, the newly formed Confederacy created and established the Confederate Post Office. One of the first undertakings in establishing the Post Office was the appointment of John H. Reagan to the position of Postmaster General, by Jefferson Davis in 1861, making him the first Postmaster General of the Confederate Post Office as well as a member of Davis' presidential cabinet. Through Reagan's resourcefulness and remarkable industry, he had his department assembled, organized and in operation before the other Presidential cabinet members had their departments fully operational.\n\nWhen the war began, the US Post Office still delivered mail from the secessionist states for a brief period of time. Mail that was postmarked after the date of a state's admission into the Confederacy through May 31, 1861, and bearing US postage was still delivered. After this time, private express companies still managed to carry some of the mail across enemy lines. Later, mail that crossed lines had to be sent by 'Flag of Truce' and was allowed to pass at only two specific points. Mail sent from the South to the North states was received, opened and inspected at Fortress Monroe on the Virginia coast before being passed on into the U.S. mail stream. Mail sent from the North to the South passed at City Point, also in Virginia, where it was also inspected before being sent on.\n\nWith the chaos of the war, a working postal system was more important than ever for the Confederacy. The Civil War had divided family members and friends and consequently letter writing increased dramatically across the entire divided nation, especially to and from the men who were away serving in an army. Mail delivery was also important for the Confederacy for a myriad of business and military reasons. Because of the Union blockade, basic supplies were always in demand and so getting mailed correspondence out of the country to suppliers was imperative to the successful operation of the Confederacy. Volumes of material have been written about the Blockade runners who evaded Union ships on blockade patrol, usually at night, and who moved cargo and mail in and out of the Confederate States throughout the course of the war. Of particular interest to students and historians of the American Civil War is \"Prisoner of War mail\" and \"Blockade mail\" as these items were often involved with a variety of military and other war time activities. The postal history of the Confederacy along with has helped historians document the various people, places and events that were involved in the American Civil War as it unfolded.\nThe Confederacy actively used the army to arrest people suspected of loyalty to the United States. Historian Mark Neely found 4,108 names of men arrested and estimated a much larger total. The Confederacy arrested pro-Union civilians in the South at about the same rate as the Union arrested pro-Confederate civilians in the North. Neely argues:\n\nAcross the South, widespread rumors alarmed the whites by predicting the slaves were planning some sort of insurrection. Patrols were stepped up. The slaves did become increasingly independent, and resistant to punishment, but historians agree there were no insurrections. In the invaded areas, insubordination was more the norm than loyalty to the old master; Bell Wiley says, \"It was not disloyalty, but the lure of freedom.\" Many slaves became spies for the North, and large numbers ran away to federal lines.\n\nLincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, an executive order of the U.S. government on January 1, 1863, changed the legal status of 3 million slaves in designated areas of the Confederacy from \"slave\" to \"free\". The long-term effect was that the Confederacy could not preserve the institution of slavery, and lost the use of the core element of its plantation labor force. Slaves were legally freed by the Proclamation, and became free by escaping to federal lines, or by advances of federal troops. Many freed slaves served as volunteers in the federal army as teamsters, cooks, laundresses and laborers, and eventually as soldiers. Plantation owners, realizing that emancipation would destroy their economic system, sometimes moved their slaves as far as possible out of reach of the Union army. By \"Juneteenth\" (June 19, 1865, in Texas), the Union Army controlled all of the Confederacy and had liberated all its slaves. Their owners never received compensation.\n\nMost whites were subsistence farmers who traded their surpluses locally. The plantations of the South, with white ownership and an enslaved labor force, produced substantial wealth from cash crops. It supplied two-thirds of the world's cotton, which was in high demand for textiles, along with tobacco, sugar, and naval stores (such as turpentine). These raw materials were exported to factories in Europe and the Northeast. Planters reinvested their profits in more slaves and fresh land, for cotton and tobacco depleted the soil. There was little manufacturing or mining; shipping was controlled by outsiders.\n\nThe plantations that enslaved over three million black people were the principal source of wealth. Most were concentrated in \"black belt\" plantation areas (because few white families in the poor regions owned slaves.) For decades there had been widespread fear of slave revolts. During the war extra men were assigned to \"home guard\" patrol duty and governors sought to keep militia units at home for protection. Historian William Barney reports, \"no major slave revolts erupted during the Civil War.\" Nevertheless, slaves took the opportunity to enlarge their sphere of independence, and when union forces were nearby, many ran off to join them.\n\nSlave labor was applied in industry in a limited way in the Upper South and in a few port cities. One reason for the regional lag in industrial development was top-heavy income distribution. Mass production requires mass markets, and slaves living in small cabins, using self-made tools and outfitted with one suit of work clothes each year of inferior fabric, did not generate consumer demand to sustain local manufactures of any description in the same way a mechanized family farm of free labor did in the North. The Southern economy was \"pre-capitalist\" in that slaves were put to work in the largest revenue-producing enterprises, not free labor market. That labor system as practiced in the American South encompassed paternalism, whether abusive or indulgent, and that meant labor management considerations apart from productivity.\n\nApproximately 85% of both North and South white populations lived on family farms, both regions were predominantly agricultural, and mid-century industry in both was mostly domestic. But the Southern economy was pre-capitalist in its overwhelming reliance on the agriculture of cash crops to produce wealth, while the great majority of farmers fed themselves and supplied a small local market. Southern cities and industries grew faster than ever before, but the thrust of the rest of the country's exponential growth elsewhere was toward urban industrial development along transportation systems of canals and railroads. The South was following the dominant currents of the American economic mainstream, but at a \"great distance\" as it lagged in the all-weather modes of transportation that brought cheaper, speedier freight shipment and forged new, expanding inter-regional markets.\n\nA third count of southern pre-capitalist economy relates to the cultural setting. The South and southerners did not adopt a work ethic, nor the habits of thrift that marked the rest of the country. It had access to the tools of capitalism, but it did not adopt its culture. The Southern Cause as a national economy in the Confederacy was grounded in \"slavery and race, planters and patricians, plain folk and folk culture, cotton and plantations\".\n\nThe Confederacy started its existence as an agrarian economy with exports, to a world market, of cotton, and, to a lesser extent, tobacco and sugarcane. Local food production included grains, hogs, cattle, and gardens. The cash came from exports but the Southern people spontaneously stopped exports in early 1861 to hasten the impact of \"King Cotton\". When the blockade was announced, commercial shipping practically ended (the ships could not get insurance), and only a trickle of supplies came via blockade runners. The cutoff of exports was an economic disaster for the South, rendering useless its most valuable properties, its plantations and their enslaved workers. Many planters kept growing cotton, which piled up everywhere, but most turned to food production. All across the region, the lack of repair and maintenance wasted away the physical assets.\n\nThe eleven states had produced $155 million in manufactured goods in 1860, chiefly from local grist-mills, and lumber, processed tobacco, cotton goods and naval stores such as turpentine. The main industrial areas were border cities such as Baltimore, Wheeling, Louisville and St. Louis, that were never under Confederate control. The government did set up munitions factories in the Deep South. Combined with captured munitions and those coming via blockade runners, the armies were kept minimally supplied with weapons. The soldiers suffered from reduced rations, lack of medicines, and the growing shortages of uniforms, shoes and boots. Shortages were much worse for civilians, and the prices of necessities steadily rose.\n\nThe Confederacy adopted a tariff or tax on imports of 15%, and imposed it on all imports from other countries, including the United States. The tariff mattered little; the Union blockade minimized commercial traffic through the Confederacy's ports, and very few people paid taxes on goods smuggled from the North. The Confederate government in its entire history collected only $3.5 million in tariff revenue. The lack of adequate financial resources led the Confederacy to finance the war through printing money, which led to high inflation. The Confederacy underwent an economic revolution by centralization and standardization, but it was too little too late as its economy was systematically strangled by blockade and raids.\n\nIn peacetime, the South's extensive and connected systems of navigable rivers and coastal access allowed for cheap and easy transportation of agricultural products. The railroad system in the South had developed as a supplement to the navigable rivers to enhance the all-weather shipment of cash crops to market. Railroads tied plantation areas to the nearest river or seaport and so made supply more dependable, lowered costs and increased profits. In the event of invasion, the vast geography of the Confederacy made logistics difficult for the Union. Wherever Union armies invaded, they assigned many of their soldiers to garrison captured areas and to protect rail lines.\n\nAt the onset of the Civil War the South had a rail network disjointed and plagued by changes in track gauge as well as lack of interchange. Locomotives and freight cars had fixed axles and could not use tracks of different gauges (widths). Railroads of different gauges leading to the same city required all freight to be off-loaded onto wagons for transport to the connecting railroad station, where it had to await freight cars and a locomotive before proceeding. Centers requiring off-loading included Vicksburg, New Orleans, Montgomery, Wilmington and Richmond. In addition, most rail lines led from coastal or river ports to inland cities, with few lateral railroads. Due to this design limitation, the relatively primitive railroads of the Confederacy were unable to overcome the Union naval blockade of the South's crucial intra-coastal and river routes.\n\nThe Confederacy had no plan to expand, protect or encourage its railroads. Southerners' refusal to export the cotton crop in 1861 left railroads bereft of their main source of income. Many lines had to lay off employees; many critical skilled technicians and engineers were permanently lost to military service. In the early years of the war the Confederate government had a hands-off approach to the railroads. Only in mid-1863 did the Confederate government initiate a national policy, and it was confined solely to aiding the war effort. Railroads came under the \"de facto\" control of the military. In contrast, the U.S. Congress had authorized military administration of Union-controlled railroad and telegraph systems in January 1862, imposed a standard gauge, and built railroads into the South using that gauge. Confederate armies successfully reoccupying territory could not be resupplied directly by rail as they advanced. The C.S. Congress formally authorized military administration of railroads in February 1865.\n\nIn the last year before the end of the war, the Confederate railroad system stood permanently on the verge of collapse. There was no new equipment and raids on both sides systematically destroyed key bridges, as well as locomotives and freight cars. Spare parts were cannibalized; feeder lines were torn up to get replacement rails for trunk lines, and rolling stock wore out through heavy use.\n\nThe Confederate army experienced a persistent shortage of horses and mules, and requisitioned them with dubious promissory notes given to local farmers and breeders. Union forces paid in real money and found ready sellers in the South. Both armies needed horses for cavalry and for artillery. Mules pulled the wagons. The supply was undermined by an unprecedented epidemic of glanders, a fatal disease that baffled veterinarians. After 1863 the invading Union forces had a policy of shooting all the local horses and mules they did not need – in order to keep them out of Confederate hands. The Confederate armies and farmers experienced a growing shortage of horses and mules, which hurt the Southern economy and the war effort. The South lost half of its 2.5 million horses and mules; many farmers ended the war with none left. Army horses were used up by hard work, malnourishment, disease and battle wounds; they had a life expectancy of about seven months.\n\nBoth the individual Confederate states and later the Confederate government printed Confederate States of America dollars as paper currency in various denominations, with a total face value of $1.5 billion. Much of it was signed by Treasurer Edward C. Elmore. Inflation became rampant as the paper money depreciated and eventually became worthless. The state governments and some localities printed their own paper money, adding to the runaway inflation. Many bills still exist, although in recent years counterfeit copies have proliferated.\n\nThe Confederate government initially wanted to finance its war mostly through tariffs on imports, export taxes, and voluntary donations of gold. After the spontaneous imposition of an embargo on cotton sales to Europe in 1861, these sources of revenue dried up and the Confederacy increasingly turned to issuing debt and printing money to pay for war expenses. The Confederate States politicians were worried about angering the general population with hard taxes. A tax increase might disillusion many Southerners, so the Confederacy resorted to printing more money. As a result, inflation increased and remained a problem for the southern states throughout the rest of the war. By April 1863, for example, the cost of flour in Richmond had risen to $100 a barrel and housewives were rioting.\n\nThe Confederate government took over the three national mints: the Charlotte Mint in North Carolina, the Dahlonega Mint in Georgia, and the New Orleans Mint in Louisiana. During 1861, the first two produced small amounts of gold coinage, the latter half dollars. Since the mints used the current dies on hand, these issues remain indistinguishable from those minted by the Union. In New Orleans the Confederacy used its own reverse design to strike four half dollars. US coinage was hoarded and did not have any general circulation. U.S. coinage was admitted as legal tender up to $10, as were British sovereigns, French Napoleons and Spanish and Mexican doubloons at a fixed rate of exchange. Confederate money was paper and postage stamps.\n\nBy mid-1861, the Union naval blockade virtually shut down the export of cotton and the import of manufactured goods. Food that formerly came overland was cut off.\n\nWomen had charge of making do. They cut back on purchases, brought out old spinning wheels and enlarged their gardens with flax and peas to provide clothing and food. They used ersatz substitutes when possible, but there was no real coffee and it was hard to develop a taste for the okra or chicory substitutes used. The households were severely hurt by inflation in the cost of everyday items like flour and the shortages of food, fodder for the animals, and medical supplies for the wounded.\n\nState governments pleaded with planters to grow less cotton and more food. Most refused. When cotton prices soared in Europe, expectations were that Europe would soon intervene to break the blockade and make them rich. The myth of omnipotent \"King Cotton\" died hard. The Georgia legislature imposed cotton quotas, making it a crime to grow an excess. But food shortages only worsened, especially in the towns.\n\nThe overall decline in food supplies, made worse by the inadequate transportation system, led to serious shortages and high prices in urban areas. When bacon reached a dollar a pound in 1863, the poor women of Richmond, Atlanta and many other cities began to riot; they broke into shops and warehouses to seize food. The women expressed their anger at ineffective state relief efforts, speculators, and merchants. As wives and widows of soldiers they were hurt by the inadequate welfare system.\n\nBy the end of the war deterioration of the Southern infrastructure was widespread. The number of civilian deaths is unknown. Every Confederate state was affected, but most of the war was fought in Virginia and Tennessee, while Texas and Florida saw the least military action. Much of the damage was caused by direct military action, but most was caused by lack of repairs and upkeep, and by deliberately using up resources. Historians have recently estimated how much of the devastation was caused by military action. Paul Paskoff calculates that Union military operations were conducted in 56% of 645 counties in nine Confederate states (excluding Texas and Florida). These counties contained 63% of the 1860 white population and 64% of the slaves. By the time the fighting took place, undoubtedly some people had fled to safer areas, so the exact population exposed to war is unknown.\n\nThe eleven Confederate States in the 1860 United States Census had 297 towns and cities with 835,000 people; of these 162 with 681,000 people were at one point occupied by Union forces. Eleven were destroyed or severely damaged by war action, including Atlanta (with an 1860 population of 9,600), Charleston, Columbia, and Richmond (with prewar populations of 40,500, 8,100, and 37,900, respectively); the eleven contained 115,900 people in the 1860 census, or 14% of the urban South. Historians have not estimated what their actual population was when Union forces arrived. The number of people (as of 1860) who lived in the destroyed towns represented just over 1% of the Confederacy's 1860 population. In addition, 45 court houses were burned (out of 830). The South's agriculture was not highly mechanized. The value of farm implements and machinery in the 1860 Census was $81 million; by 1870, there was 40% less, worth just $48 million. Many old tools had broken through heavy use; new tools were rarely available; even repairs were difficult.\n\nThe economic losses affected everyone. Banks and insurance companies were mostly bankrupt. Confederate currency and bonds were worthless. The billions of dollars invested in slaves vanished. Most debts were also left behind. Most farms were intact but most had lost their horses, mules and cattle; fences and barns were in disrepair. Paskoff shows the loss of farm infrastructure was about the same whether or not fighting took place nearby. The loss of infrastructure and productive capacity meant that rural widows throughout the region faced not only the absence of able-bodied men, but a depleted stock of material resources that they could manage and operate themselves. During four years of warfare, disruption, and blockades, the South used up about half its capital stock. The North, by contrast, absorbed its material losses so effortlessly that it appeared richer at the end of the war than at the beginning.\n\nThe rebuilding took years and was hindered by the low price of cotton after the war. Outside investment was essential, especially in railroads. One historian has summarized the collapse of the transportation infrastructure needed for economic recovery:\nOne of the greatest calamities which confronted Southerners was the havoc wrought on the transportation system. Roads were impassable or nonexistent, and bridges were destroyed or washed away. The important river traffic was at a standstill: levees were broken, channels were blocked, the few steamboats which had not been captured or destroyed were in a state of disrepair, wharves had decayed or were missing, and trained personnel were dead or dispersed. Horses, mules, oxen, carriages, wagons, and carts had nearly all fallen prey at one time or another to the contending armies. The railroads were paralyzed, with most of the companies bankrupt. These lines had been the special target of the enemy. On one stretch of 114 miles in Alabama, every bridge and trestle was destroyed, cross-ties rotten, buildings burned, water-tanks gone, ditches filled up, and tracks grown up in weeds and bushes ... Communication centers like Columbia and Atlanta were in ruins; shops and foundries were wrecked or in disrepair. Even those areas bypassed by battle had been pirated for equipment needed on the battlefront, and the wear and tear of wartime usage without adequate repairs or replacements reduced all to a state of disintegration.\n\nAbout 250,000 men never came home, some 30 percent of all white men aged 18 to 40, in 1860. Widows who were overwhelmed often abandoned the farm and merged into the households of relatives, or even became refugees living in camps with high rates of disease and death. In the Old South, being an \"old maid\" was something of an embarrassment to the woman and her family. After the war it became almost a norm. Some women welcomed the freedom of not having to marry. Divorce, while never fully accepted, became more common. The concept of the \"New Woman\" emerged – she was self-sufficient and independent, and stood in sharp contrast to the \"Southern Belle\" of antebellum lore.\n\nThe first official flag of the Confederate States of America – called the \"Stars and Bars\" – originally had seven stars, representing the first seven states that initially formed the Confederacy. As more states joined, more stars were added, until the total was 13 (two stars were added for the divided states of Kentucky and Missouri). During the First Battle of Bull Run, (First Manassas) it sometimes proved difficult to distinguish the Stars and Bars from the Union flag. To rectify the situation, a separate \"Battle Flag\" was designed for use by troops in the field. Also known as the \"Southern Cross\", many variations sprang from the original square configuration. Although it was never officially adopted by the Confederate government, the popularity of the Southern Cross among both soldiers and the civilian population was a primary reason why it was made the main color feature when a new national flag was adopted in 1863. This new standard – known as the \"Stainless Banner\" – consisted of a lengthened white field area with a Battle Flag canton. This flag too had its problems when used in military operations as, on a windless day, it could easily be mistaken for a flag of truce or surrender. Thus, in 1865, a modified version of the Stainless Banner was adopted. This final national flag of the Confederacy kept the Battle Flag canton, but shortened the white field and added a vertical red bar to the fly end.\n\nBecause of its depiction in the 20th-century and popular media, many people consider the rectangular battle flag with the dark blue bars as being synonymous with \"the Confederate Flag\", but this flag was never adopted as a Confederate national flag. The \"Confederate Flag\" has a color scheme similar to the official Battle Flag, but is rectangular, not square. (Its design and shape matches the Naval Jack, but the blue bars are darker.) The \"Confederate Flag\" is a highly recognizable symbol of the South in the United States today, and continues to be a controversial icon.\n\nThe Confederate States of America claimed a total of of coastline, thus a large part of its territory lay on the seacoast with level and often sandy or marshy ground. Most of the interior portion consisted of arable farmland, though much was also hilly and mountainous, and the far western territories were deserts. The lower reaches of the Mississippi River bisected the country, with the western half often referred to as the Trans-Mississippi. The highest point (excluding Arizona and New Mexico) was Guadalupe Peak in Texas at .\n\nClimate\n\nMuch of the area claimed by the Confederate States of America had a humid subtropical climate with mild winters and long, hot, humid summers. The climate and terrain varied from vast swamps (such as those in Florida and Louisiana) to semi-arid steppes and arid deserts west of longitude 100 degrees west. The subtropical climate made winters mild but allowed infectious diseases to flourish. Consequently, on both sides more soldiers died from disease than were killed in combat, a fact hardly atypical of pre–World War I conflicts.\n\nThe United States Census of 1860 gives a picture of the overall 1860 population of the areas that joined the Confederacy. Note that population-numbers exclude non-assimilated Indian tribes.\n\nIn 1860 the areas that later formed the eleven Confederate States (and including the future West Virginia) had 132,760 (1.46%) free blacks. Males made up 49.2% of the total population and females 50.8% (whites: 48.60% male, 51.40% female; slaves: 50.15% male, 49.85% female; free blacks: 47.43% male, 52.57% female).\n\nThe CSA was overwhelmingly rural land. Few towns had populations of more than 1,000 – the typical county seat had a population of fewer than 500 people. Cities were rare. Of the twenty largest U.S. cities in the 1860 census, only New Orleans lay in Confederate territory – and the Union captured New Orleans in 1862. Only 13 Confederate-controlled cities ranked among the top 100 U.S. cities in 1860, most of them ports whose economic activities vanished or suffered severely in the Union blockade. The population of Richmond swelled after it became the Confederate capital, reaching an estimated 128,000 in 1864. Other Southern cities in the Border slave-holding states such as Baltimore, Washington, D.C., Wheeling (W.Va., formerly Va.), Alexandria, Louisville, and St. Louis never came under the control of the Confederate government.\n\nThe cities of the Confederacy included most prominently in order of size of population:\n\n\"(See also Atlanta in the Civil War, Charleston, South Carolina, in the Civil War, Nashville in the Civil War, New Orleans in the Civil War, Wilmington, North Carolina, in the American Civil War, and Richmond in the Civil War).\"\n\nThe CSA was overwhelmingly Protestant. Both free and enslaved populations identified with evangelical Protestantism. Baptists and Methodists together formed majorities of both the white and the slave population (see \"Black church\"). Freedom of religion and separation of church and state were fully ensured by Confederate laws. Church attendance was very high and chaplains played a major role in the Army.\n\nMost large denominations experienced a North–South split in the prewar era on the issue of slavery. The creation of a new country necessitated independent structures. For example, the Presbyterian Church in the United States split, with much of the new leadership provided by Joseph Ruggles Wilson (father of President Woodrow Wilson). In 1861, he organized the meeting that formed General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church and served as its chief executive for thirty-seven years. Baptists and Methodists both broke off from their Northern coreligionists over the slavery issue, forming the Southern Baptist Convention and the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, respectively. Elites in the southeast favored the Protestant Episcopal Church in the Confederate States of America, which reluctantly split off the Episcopal Church (USA) in 1861. Other elites were Presbyterians belonging to the 1861-founded Presbyterian Church in the United States. Catholics included an Irish working class element in coastal cities and an old French element in southern Louisiana. Other insignificant and scattered religious populations included Lutherans, the Holiness movement, other Reformed, other Christian fundamentalists, the Stone-Campbell Restoration Movement, the Churches of Christ, the Latter-day Saints movement, Adventists, Muslims, Jews, Native American animists, deists and irreligious people.\n\nThe southern churches met the shortage of Army chaplains by sending missionaries. The Southern Baptists started in 1862 and had a total of 78 missionaries. Presbyterians were even more active with 112 missionaries in January 1865. Other missionaries were funded and supported by the Episcopalians, Methodists, and Lutherans. One result was wave after wave of revivals in the Army.\n\nMilitary leaders of the Confederacy (with their state or country of birth and highest rank) included:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8582", "title": "Deism", "text": "Deism\n\nDeism ( or ; derived from Latin \"deus\" meaning \"god\") is a philosophical belief that posits that God exists as an uncaused First Cause ultimately responsible for the creation of the universe, but does not interfere directly with the created world. Equivalently, deism can also be defined as the view which posits God's existence as the cause of all things, and admits its perfection (and usually the existence of natural law and Providence) but rejects divine revelation or direct intervention of God in the universe by miracles. It also rejects revelation as a source of religious knowledge and asserts that reason and observation of the natural world are sufficient to determine the existence of a single creator or absolute principle of the universe.\n\nDeism gained prominence among intellectuals during the Age of Enlightenment, especially in Britain, France, Germany, and the United States. Typically, these had been raised as Christians and believed in one God, but they had become disenchanted with organized religion and orthodox teachings such as the Trinity, Biblical inerrancy, and the supernatural interpretation of events, such as miracles. Included in those influenced by its ideas were leaders of the American and French Revolutions.\nDeism is considered to exist in the classical and modern forms, where the classical view takes what is called a \"cold\" approach by asserting the non-intervention of a deity in the natural behavior of the created universe, while the modern deist formulation can be either \"warm\" (citing an involved deity) or \"cold\" (citing an uninvolved deity). These lead to many subdivisions of modern deism, which serves as an overall category of belief. \n\nDeism is a theological theory concerning the relationship between a creator and the natural world. Deistic viewpoints emerged during the scientific revolution of 17th-century Europe and came to exert a powerful influence during the 18th-century Enlightenment. Deism stood between the narrow dogmatism of the period and skepticism. Though deists rejected atheism, they often were called \"atheists\" by more traditional theists. There were a number of different forms in the 17th and 18th centuries. In England, deists included a range of people from anti-Christian to non-Christian theists.\n\nFor deists, human beings can know God only via reason and the observation of nature, but not by revelation or by supernatural manifestations (such as miracles) – phenomena which deists regard with caution if not skepticism. Deism is related to naturalism because it credits the formation of life and the universe to a higher power, using only natural processes. Deism may also include a spiritual element, involving experiences of God and nature.\n\nThe words \"deism\" and \"theism\" both derive from words for \"god\": the former from Latin \"deus\", the latter from Greek \"theós\" (θεός).\n\nPerhaps the first recorded use of the term \"deist\" () occurs in Pierre Viret's \"Instruction Chrétienne en la doctrine de la foi et de l'Évangile\" (Christian teaching on the doctrine of faith and the Gospel, 1564), reprinted in Bayle's \"Dictionnaire\" (1697) entry \"Viret\". Viret, a Calvinist, flagged the term as a neologism (\"un mot tout nouveau\"),\nand regarded deism as a new form of Italian heresy.\nViret wrote that a group of people believed in \"some sort of God\" like the Jews and Turks but regarded the doctrine of the evangelists and the apostles as a mere myth. According to him Deists wrongly misinterpreted the liberty given to them during the reform period.\n\nIn England, the term \"deist\" first appeared in Robert Burton's \"The Anatomy of Melancholy\" (1621).\n\nLord Herbert of Cherbury (1583–1648) is considered the \"father of English deism\", and his book \"De Veritate\" (1624) the first major statement of deism. Deism flourished in England between 1690 and 1740, at which time Matthew Tindal's \"Christianity as Old as the Creation\" (1730), also called \"The Deist's Bible,\" gained much attention. Later deism spread to France (notably through the work of Voltaire), to Germany, and to North America.\n\nThe concept of deism covers a wide variety of positions on a wide variety of religious issues. Sir Leslie Stephen describes the core of deism as consisting of \"critical\" and \"constructional\" elements.\n\nCritical elements of deist thought included:\n\nConstructional elements of deist thought included:\n\nIndividual deists varied in the critical and constructive elements they argued for. Some rejected miracles and prophecies, but still considered themselves Christians because they believed in what they felt was the pure, original form of Christianitythat is, Christianity as it supposedly existed before it was corrupted by additions of such superstitions as miracles, prophecies, and the doctrine of the Trinity. Some deists rejected the claim of Jesus' divinity but continued to hold him in high regard as a moral teacher, a position known as Christian deism, exemplified by Thomas Jefferson's famous \"Jefferson Bible\" and Matthew Tindal's \"Christianity as Old as the Creation.\" Other, more radical deists, rejected Christianity altogether and expressed hostility toward Christianity, which they regarded as pure superstition. In return, Christian writers often charged radical deists with atheism.\n\nNote that the terms \"constructive\" and \"critical\" are used to refer to aspects of deistic thought, not sects or subtypes of deismit would be incorrect to classify any particular deist author as \"a constructive deist\" or \"a critical deist\". As Peter Gay notes:\nIt should be noted, however, that the constructive element of deism was not unique to deism. It was the same as the natural theology that was so prevalent in all English theology in the 17th and 18th centuries. What set deists apart from their more orthodox contemporaries were their critical concerns.\nOne of the remarkable features of deism is that the critical elements did not overpower the constructive elements. As E. Graham Waring observed, \"A strange feature of the [Deist] controversy is the apparent acceptance of all parties of the conviction of the existence of God.\" And Basil Willey observed: \n\nAccording to the deists, reason gives all the information needed:\nConsequently, the deists attempted to use reason as a critical tool for exposing and rejecting what they saw as nonsense:\nSome deists used the cosmological argument for the existence of God - as did Thomas Hobbes in several of his writings:\n\nMost deists (see for instance Matthew Tindal's \"Christianity as Old as the Creation\" and\nThomas Paine's \"The Age of Reason\") saw the religions of their day as corruptions of an original, pure religion that was simple and rational. They felt that this original pure religion had become corrupted by \"priests\" who had manipulated it for personal gain and for the class interests of the priesthood in general.\n\nAccording to this world view, over time priests had succeeded in encrusting the original simple, rational religion with all kinds of superstitions and \"mysteries\"irrational theological doctrines. Laymen were told by the priests that only the priests really knew what was necessary for salvation and that laymen must accept the mysteries on faith and on the priests' authority. This kept the laity baffled by the nonsensical \"mysteries\", confused, and dependent on the priests for information about the requirements for salvation. The priests consequently enjoyed a position of considerable power over the laity, which they strove to maintain and increase. Deists referred to this kind of manipulation of religious doctrine as \"priestcraft,\" a highly derogatory term. As Thomas Paine wrote:\n\nDeists saw their mission as the stripping away of \"priestcraft\" and \"mysteries\" from religion, thereby restoring religion to its original, true conditionsimple and rational. In many cases, they considered true, original Christianity to be the same as this original natural religion. As Matthew Tindal put it:\n\nOne implication of this deist creation myth was that primitive societies, or societies that existed in the distant past, should have religious beliefs that are less encrusted with superstitions and closer to those of natural theology. This position gradually became less plausible as thinkers such as David Hume began studying the natural history of religion and suggesting that the origins of religion lay not in reason but in the emotions, specifically the fear of the unknown.\n\nEnlightenment thinkers, under the influence of Newtonian science, tended to view the universe as a vast machine, created and set in motion by a creator being, that continues to operate according to natural law, without any divine intervention. This view naturally led to what was then usually called necessitarianism (the modern term is determinism): the view that everything in the universe – including human behavior – is completely causally determined by antecedent circumstances and natural law. (See, for example, La Mettrie's \"L'Homme machine\".) As a consequence, debates about freedom versus \"necessity\" were a regular feature of Enlightenment religious and philosophical discussions.\n\nBecause of their high regard for natural law and for the idea of a universe without miracles, deists were especially susceptible to the temptations of determinism. Reflecting the intellectual climate of the time, there were differences among deists about freedom and determinism. Some, such as Anthony Collins, actually were necessitarians.\n\nDeists hold a variety of beliefs about the soul. Some, such as Lord Herbert of Cherbury and William Wollaston, held that souls exist, survive death, and in the afterlife are rewarded or punished by God for their behavior in life. Some, such as Benjamin Franklin, believed in reincarnation or resurrection. Others, such as Thomas Paine, had definitive beliefs about the immortality of the soul:\nStill others such as Anthony Collins, Bolingbroke, Thomas Chubb, and Peter Annet were materialists and either denied or doubted the immortality of the soul.\n\nDeist authors – and 17th- and 18th-century theologians in general – referred to God using a variety of vivid circumlocutions such as:\n\nDeistic thinking has existed since ancient times. Among the Ancient Greeks, Heraclitus conceived of a logos, a supreme rational principle, and said the wisdom \"by which all things are steered through all things\" was \"both willing and unwilling to be called Zeus (God).\" Plato envisaged God as a Demiurge or 'craftsman'. Outside ancient Greece many other cultures have expressed views that resemble deism in some respects. However, the word \"deism\", as it is understood today, is generally used to refer to the movement toward natural theology or freethinking that occurred in 17th-century Europe, and specifically in Britain.\n\nNatural theology is a facet of the revolution in world view that occurred in Europe in the 17th century. To understand the background to that revolution is also to understand the background of deism. Several cultural movements of the time contributed to the movement.\n\nThe humanist tradition of the Renaissance included a revival of interest in Europe's classical past in ancient Greece and Rome. The veneration of that classical past, particularly pre-Christian Rome, the new availability of Greek philosophical works, the successes of humanism and natural science along with the fragmentation of Christianity and increased understanding of other faiths, all helped erode the image of the Catholic Church as the unique source of wisdom, destined to dominate the whole world.\n\nIn addition, study of classical documents led to the realization that some historical documents are less reliable than others, which led to the beginnings of biblical criticism. In particular, when scholars worked on biblical manuscripts, they began developing the principles of textual criticism and a view of the New Testament being the product of a particular historical period different from their own.\n\nIn addition to discovering diversity in the past, Europeans discovered diversity in the present. The voyages of discovery of the 16th and 17th centuries acquainted Europeans with new and different cultures in the Americas, in Asia, and in the Pacific. They discovered a greater amount of cultural diversity than they had ever imagined, and the question arose of how this vast amount of human cultural diversity could be compatible with the biblical account of Noah's descendants. In particular, the ideas of Confucius, translated into European languages by Jesuit missionaries like Michele Ruggieri, Philippe Couplet, and François Noël, are thought to have had considerable influence on the deists and other philosophical groups of the Enlightenment who were interested by the integration of the system of morality of Confucius into Christianity.\n\nIn particular, cultural diversity with respect to religious beliefs could no longer be ignored. As Herbert wrote in \"De Religione Laici\" (1645):\n\nEurope had been plagued by sectarian conflicts and religious wars since the beginning of the Reformation. In 1642, when Lord Herbert of Cherbury's \"De Veritate\" was published, the Thirty Years War had been raging on continental Europe for nearly 25 years. It was an enormously destructive war that (it is estimated) destroyed 15–20% of the population of Germany. At the same time, the English Civil War pitting King against Parliament was just beginning.\n\nSuch massive violence led to a search for natural religious truthstruths that could be universally accepted, because they had been either \"written in the book of Nature\" or \"engraved on the human mind\" by God.\n\nThe 17th century saw a remarkable advance in scientific knowledge, the scientific revolution. The work of Copernicus, Kepler, and Galileo set aside the old notion that the earth was the center of the universe. These discoveries posed a serious challenge to biblical and religious authorities, Galileo's condemnation for heresy being an example. In consequence the Bible came to be seen as authoritative on matters of faith and morals but no longer authoritative (or meant to be) on science.\n\nIsaac Newton's (1642–1727) mathematical explanation of universal gravitation explained the behavior both of objects here on earth and of objects in the heavens in a way that promoted a worldview in which the natural universe is controlled by laws of nature. This, in turn, suggested a theology in which God created the universe, set it in motion controlled by natural law and retired from the scene. The new awareness of the explanatory power of universal natural law also produced a growing skepticism about such religious staples as miracles (violations of natural law) and about religious books that reported them.\n\nEarly works of biblical criticism, such as Thomas Hobbes's \"Leviathan\" and Spinoza's \"Theologico-Political Treatise\", as well as works by lesser-known authors such as Richard Simon and Isaac La Peyrère, paved the way for the development of critical deism.\nAn important precursor to deism was the work of Edward, Lord Herbert of Cherbury (d. 1648). He has been called the \"father of English deism\", and his book \"De Veritate\" (\"On Truth, as It Is Distinguished from Revelation, the Probable, the Possible, and the False\") (1624) \"the first major statement of deism\". However, his beliefs in divine intervention, particularly in response to prayer, are at odds with the basic ideas of deism. In Herbert's account of one incident, he prayed \"I am not satisfied enough whether I shall publish this Book, De Veritate; if it be for Thy glory, I beseech Thee give me some Sign from Heaven, if not, I shall suppress it\" and recounts that the response was \"a loud tho' yet gentle Noise came from the Heavens (for it was like nothing on Earth)... I had the Sign I demanded\".\n\nLike his contemporary Descartes, Herbert searched for the foundations of\nknowledge. In fact, the first two thirds of \"De Veritate\" are devoted to an exposition of Herbert's theory of knowledge. Herbert distinguished truths obtained through experience, and through reasoning about experience, from innate truths and from revealed truths. Innate truths are imprinted on our minds, and the evidence that they are so imprinted is that they are universally accepted. Herbert's term for universally accepted truths was \"notitiae communes\"common notions.\n\nIn the realm of religion, Herbert believed that there were five common notions.\n\nThe following lengthy quote from Herbert can give the flavor of his writing and demonstrate the sense of the importance that Herbert attributed to innate Common Notions, which can help in understanding the effect of Locke's attack on innate ideas on Herbert's philosophy:\n\nAccording to Gay, Herbert had relatively few followers, and it was not until the 1680s that Herbert found a true successor in Charles Blount (1654–1693). Blount made one special contribution to the deist debate: \"by utilizing his wide classical learning, Blount demonstrated how to use pagan writers, and pagan ideas, against Christianity. ... Other Deists were to follow his lead.\"\n\nThe publication of John Locke's \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" (1689, but dated 1690) marks a major turning point in the history of deism. Since Herbert's \"De Veritate\", innate ideas had been the foundation of deist epistemology. Locke's famous attack on innate ideas in the first book of the \"Essay\" effectively destroyed that foundation and replaced it with a theory of knowledge based on experience. \"Innatist\" deism was replaced by \"empiricist\" deism. Locke himself was not a deist. He believed in both miracles and revelation, and he regarded miracles as the main proof of revelation.\n\nAfter Locke, constructive deism could no longer appeal to innate ideas for justification of its basic tenets such as the existence of God. Instead, under the influence of Locke and Newton, deists turned to natural theology and to arguments based on experience and nature: the cosmological argument and the argument from design.\n\nPeter Gay places the zenith of deism \"from the end of the 1690s, when the vehement response to John Toland's \"Christianity not Mysterious\" (1696) started the deist debate, to the end of the 1740s when the tepid response to Conyers Middleton's \"Free Inquiry\" signalled its close.\"\n\nDuring this period, prominent British deists included William Wollastson, Charles Blount, and\nHenry St John, 1st Viscount Bolingbroke.\n\nThe influential author Anthony Ashley-Cooper, Third Earl of Shaftesbury is also usually categorized as a deist. Although he did not think of himself as a deist, he shared so many attitudes with deists that Gay calls him \"a Deist in fact, if not in name\".\n\nNotable late-classical deists include Peter Annet (1693–1769), Thomas Chubb (1679–1747), Thomas Morgan (?–1743), and Conyers Middleton (1683–1750).\n\nEspecially noteworthy is Matthew Tindal's \"Christianity as Old as the Creation\" (1730), which \"became, very soon after its publication, the focal center of the deist controversy. Because almost every argument, quotation, and issue raised for decades can be found here, the work is often termed 'the deist's Bible'.\"\nFollowing Locke's successful attack on innate ideas, Tindal's \"Deist Bible\" redefined the foundation of deist epistemology as knowledge based on experience or human reason. This effectively widened the gap between traditional Christians and what he called \"Christian Deists\", since this new foundation required that \"revealed\" truth be validated through human reason.\n\nThe writings of David Hume are sometimes credited with causing or contributing to the decline of deism. English deism, however, was already in decline before Hume's works on religion (1757,1779) were published.\n\nFurthermore, some writers maintain that Hume's writings on religion were not very influential at the time that they were published.\n\nNevertheless, modern scholars find it interesting to study the implications of his thoughts for deism.\n\nIn the \"Natural History of Religion\" (1757), Hume contends that polytheism, not monotheism, was \"the first and most ancient religion of mankind\". In addition, contends Hume, the psychological basis of religion is not reason, but fear of the unknown.\n\nAs E. Graham Waring saw it;\n\nExperts dispute whether Hume was a deist, an atheist, or something else. Hume himself was uncomfortable with the terms \"deist\" and \"atheist\", and Hume scholar Paul Russell has argued that the best and safest term for Hume's views is \"irreligion\".\n\nEnglish deism, in the words of Peter Gay, \"travelled well. ... As Deism waned in England, it waxed in France and the German states.\"\n\nFrance had its own tradition of religious skepticism and natural theology in the works of Montaigne, Bayle, and Montesquieu. The most famous of the French deists was Voltaire, who acquired a taste for Newtonian science, and reinforcement of deistic inclinations, during a two-year visit to England starting in 1726.\n\nFrench deists also included Maximilien Robespierre and Rousseau. For a short period of time during the French Revolution the Cult of the Supreme Being was the state religion of France.\n\nKant's identification with deism is controversial. An argument in favor of Kant as deist is Allen Wood's \"Kant's Deism,\" in P. Rossi and M. Wreen (eds.), \"Kant's Philosophy of Religion Reconsidered\" (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1991); an argument against Kant as deist is Stephen Palmquist's \"Kant's Theistic Solution\".\n\nIn the United States, Enlightenment philosophy (which itself was heavily inspired by deist ideals) played a major role in creating the principle of religious freedom, expressed in Thomas Jefferson's letters and included in the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. American Founding Fathers, or Framers of the Constitution, who were especially noted for being influenced by such philosophy include Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, Cornelius Harnett, Gouverneur Morris, and Hugh Williamson. Their political speeches show distinct deistic influence.\n\nOther notable Founding Fathers may have been more directly deist. These include James Madison, possibly Alexander Hamilton, Ethan Allen,\nand Thomas Paine (who published \"The Age of Reason\", a treatise that helped to popularize deism throughout the United States and Europe).\n\nUnlike the many deist tracts aimed at an educated elite, Paine's treatise explicitly appealed to ordinary people, using direct language familiar to the laboring classes. How widespread deism was among ordinary people in the United States is a matter of continued debate.\n\nA major contributor was Elihu Palmer (1764–1806), who wrote the \"Bible\" of American deism in his \"Principles of Nature\" (1801) and attempted to organize deism by forming the \"Deistical Society of New York\" and other deistic societies from Maine to Georgia.\n\nIn the United States there is controversy over whether the Founding Fathers were Christians, deists, or something in between. Particularly heated is the debate over the beliefs of Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and George Washington.\n\nBenjamin Franklin wrote in his autobiography, \n\nFranklin also wrote that, \"The Deity sometimes interferes by his particular Providence, and sets aside the Events which would otherwise have been produc'd in the Course of Nature, or by the Free Agency of Man.\"\nHe later stated, in the Constitutional Convention, that \"the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth -- that God governs in the affairs of men.\"\n\nFor his part, Thomas Jefferson is perhaps one of the Founding Fathers with the most outspoken of deist tendencies, though he is not known to have called himself a deist, generally referring to himself as a Unitarian. In particular, his treatment of the Biblical gospels, which he titled \"The Life and Morals of Jesus of Nazareth\", but subsequently became more commonly known as the \"Jefferson Bible\", exhibits a strong deist tendency of stripping away all supernatural and dogmatic references from the Christ story. However, Frazer, following the lead of Sydney Ahlstrom, characterizes Jefferson as not a Deist but a \"theistic rationalist\", because Jefferson believed in God's continuing activity in human affairs. Frazer cites Jefferson's \"Notes on the State of Virginia\", where he wrote, \"I tremble\" at the thought that \"God is just,\" and he warned of eventual \"supernatural influence\" to abolish the scourge of slavery.\n\nDeism is generally considered to have declined as an influential school of thought by around 1800, but has since experienced an extraordinary resurgence as its simple science- and reason-based philosophy has been rediscovered in the internet Age.\n\nThe 2001 American Religious Identification Survey (ARIS), which involved 50,000 participants, reported that the number of participants in the survey identifying themselves as deists grew at the rate of 717 percent between 1990 and 2001. If this were generalized to the US population as a whole, it would make deism the fastest-growing religious classification in the US for that period, with the reported total of 49,000 self-identified adherents representing about 0.02% of the US population in 2001.\n\nAs of the time of the 2008 ARIS survey, 12 percent (38 million) of the American population were classified as deists.\n\nIt is probably more accurate, however, to say that deism evolved into, and contributed to, other religious movements. The term \"deist\" became rarely used, but deist beliefs, ideas, and influences remained. They can be seen in 19th-century liberal British theology and in the rise of Unitarianism, which adopted many of deism's beliefs and ideas.\n\nAlthough this decline has entirely reversed during the early 21st century, some commentators have suggested a variety of reasons for the former decline of \"classical\" deism (or perhaps actually simply a decline in the use of the term \"Deism\", rather than in the more universality Deist philosophy).\n\nContemporary deism attempts to integrate classical deism with modern philosophy and the current state of scientific knowledge. This attempt has produced a wide variety of personal beliefs under the broad classification of belief of \"deism.\"\n\nClassical deism held that a human's relationship with God was impersonal: God created the world and set it in motion but does not actively intervene in individual human affairs but rather through divine providence. What this means is that God will give humanity such things as reason and compassion but this applies to all and not to individual intervention.\n\nSome modern deists have modified this classical view and believe that humanity's relationship with God is transpersonal, which means that God transcends the personal/impersonal duality and moves beyond such human terms. Also, this means that it makes no sense to state that God intervenes or does not intervene, as that is a human characteristic that God does not contain. Modern deists believe that they must continue what the classical deists started and continue to use modern human knowledge to come to understand God, which in turn is why a human-like God that can lead to numerous contradictions and inconsistencies is no longer believed in and has been replaced with a much more abstract conception.\n\nA modern definition has been created and provided by the World Union of Deists (WUD) that provides a modern understanding of deism:\n\nBecause deism asserts the existence of God without accepting claims of divine revelation, it appeals to people from both ends of the religious spectrum. Antony Flew, for example, was a convert from atheism, and Raymond Fontaine was a Roman Catholic priest for over 20 years before converting.\n\nThe 2001 American Religious Identification Survey (ARIS), which involved 50,000 participants, reported that the number of participants in the survey identifying themselves as deists grew at the rate of 717 percent between 1990 and 2001. If this were generalized to the US population as a whole, it would make deism the fastest-growing religious classification in the US for that period, with the reported total of 49,000 self-identified adherents representing about 0.02% of the US population at the time.\n\nIn 1993, Bob Johnson established the first deist organization since the days of Thomas Paine and Elihu Palmer with the World Union of Deists. The WUD offered the monthly paper publication \"THINK!\" Currently the WUD offers two online deist publications, \"THINKonline!\" and \"Deistic Thought & Action!\" As well as using the internet for spreading the deist message, the WUD is also conducting a direct mail campaign.\n\nIn 1996 the first web site dedicated to deism, deism.com, was launched by the World Union of Deists. In 1998, Sullivan-County.com was originally the Virginia/Tennessee affiliate of WUD and the second deism site on the web. It split from deism.com to promote more traditional and historical deist beliefs and history.\n\nThe Positive Deism movement began in 2004. Historically and to the present day, deists have been very critical of the revealed religions as well as trying to be constructive. Positive Deists focus their efforts solely on being constructive and avoid criticism of other faiths. In 2009 Chuck Clendenen, one of its adherents, published a book entitled \"Deist: so that's what I am!\". The aim of the book was to educate those who believed similarly, but did not know the words deism and deist, that there is a name for their belief.\n\nIn 2009, the World Union of Deists published a book on deism, \"Deism: A Revolution in Religion, A Revolution in You\" written by its founder and director, Bob Johnson. This book focuses on what deism has to offer both individuals and society. In 2010 the WUD published the book \"An Answer to C.S. Lewis' Mere Christianity\", which is a rebuttal to the book \"Mere Christianity\" by the Christian apologist C.S. Lewis. In 2014, the WUD published its third book, \"God Gave Us Reason, Not Religion\", which describes the difference between God and religion, and promotes innate reason as God's greatest gift to humanity, other than life itself. It proposes that people can have belief in The Supreme Intelligence/God that is beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\nThe World Union of Deists in 2016 became a producer of the film adaptation of Ian Ruskin's play To Begin the World Over Again: The Life of Thomas Paine. The film includes important coverage of Thomas Paine's profound Deism and his work to promote Deism.\n\nIn 2010, the Church of Deism (not affiliated with the World Union of Deists) was formed in an effort to extend the legal rights and privileges of more traditional religions to Deists while maintaining an absence of established dogma and ritual.\n\nModern deists hold a wide range of views on the nature of God and God's relationship to the world. The common area of agreement is the desire to use reason, experience, and nature as the basis of belief.\n\nThere are a number of subcategories of modern deism, including monodeism (this being the default standard concept of deism), polydeism, pandeism, spiritual deism, process deism, Christian deism, scientific deism, and humanistic deism. Some deists see design in nature and purpose in the universe and in their lives (Prime Designer). Others see God and the universe in a co-creative process (Prime Motivator). Some deists view God in classical terms and see God as observing humanity but not directly intervening in our lives (Prime Observer), while others see God as a subtle and persuasive spirit who created the world, but then stepped back to observe (Prime Mover).\n\nPandeism combines elements of deism with elements of pantheism, the belief that the universe is identical to God. Pandeism holds that God was a conscious and sentient force or entity that designed and created the universe, which operates by mechanisms set forth in the creation. God thus became an unconscious and nonresponsive being by \"becoming\" the universe. Other than this distinction (and the possibility that the universe will one day return to the state of being God), pandeistic beliefs are deistic. The earliest allusion to pandeism found to date is in 1787, in translator Gottfried Große's interpretation of Pliny the Elder's Natural History:\n\nHere Gottfried says that Pliny is not Spinozist, but 'could be called a pandeist' whose Nature or God 'is not a being separate from the world. Its nature is the whole creation in concrete form, and thus it seems to be designed with its divinity.' The term was used in 1859 by German philosophers and frequent collaborators Moritz Lazarus and Heymann Steinthal in \"Zeitschrift für Völkerpsychologie und Sprachwissenschaft\". They wrote:\n\nThis is translated as:\n\nIn the 1960s, theologian Charles Hartshorne scrupulously examined and rejected both deism and pandeism (as well as pantheism) in favor of a conception of God whose characteristics included \"absolute perfection in some respects, relative perfection in all others\" or \"AR\", writing that this theory \"is able consistently to embrace all that is positive in either deism or pandeism\", concluding that \"panentheistic doctrine contains all of deism and pandeism except their arbitrary negations\".\n\nMany classical deists were critical of some types of prayer. For example, in \"Christianity as Old as the Creation\", Matthew Tindal argues against praying for miracles, but advocates prayer as both a human duty and a human need.\n\nToday, deists hold a variety of opinions about prayer:\n\nCharles Taylor, in his 2007 book \"A Secular Age\", showed the historical role of deism, leading to what he calls an exclusive humanism. This humanism invokes a moral order, whose ontic commitment is wholly intra-human, with no reference to transcendence. One of the special achievements of such deism-based humanism is that it discloses new, anthropocentric moral sources by which human beings are motivated and empowered to accomplish acts of mutual benefit. This is the province of a buffered, disengaged self, which is the locus of dignity, freedom and discipline, and is endowed with a sense of human capability. According to Taylor, by the early 19th century this deism-mediated exclusive humanism developed as an alternative to Christian faith in a personal God and an order of miracles and mystery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "610989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610989", "title": "Diorama", "text": "Diorama\n\nThe word diorama can either refer to a 19th-century mobile theatre device, or, in modern usage, a three-dimensional full-size or miniature model, sometimes enclosed in a glass showcase for a museum. Dioramas are often built by hobbyists as part of related hobbies such as military vehicle modeling, miniature figure modeling, or aircraft modeling.\n\nThe word \"diorama\" originated in 1823 as a type of picture-viewing device, from the French in 1822. The word literally means \"through that which is seen\", from the Greek di- \"through\" + orama \"that which is seen, a sight\". The diorama was invented by Louis Daguerre and Charles Marie Bouton, first exhibited in Paris in July 1822 and in London on September 29, 1823. The meaning \"small-scale replica of a scene, etc.\" is from 1902.\n\nDaguerre's and Bouton's diorama consisted of a piece of material painted on both sides. When illuminated from the front, the scene would be shown in one state and by switching to illumination from behind another phase or aspect would be seen. Scenes in daylight changed to moonlight, a train travelling on a track would crash, or an earthquake would be shown in before and after pictures.\n\nThe current, popular understanding of the term \"diorama\" denotes a partially three-dimensional, full-size replica or scale model of a landscape typically showing historical events, nature scenes or cityscapes, for purposes of education or entertainment.\n\nOne of the first uses of dioramas in a museum was in Stockholm, Sweden, where the Biological Museum opened in 1893. It had several dioramas, over three floors. They were also implemented by the National Museum Grigore Antipa from Bucharest Romania and constituted a source of inspiration for many important museums in the world (such as the Museum of Natural History of New York and the Great Oceanographic Museum in Berlin) [reference below]. \n\nMiniature dioramas are typically much smaller, and use scale models and landscaping to create historical or fictional scenes. Such a scale model-based diorama is used, for example, in Chicago's Museum of Science and Industry to display railroading. This diorama employs a common model railroading scale of 1:87 (HO scale). Hobbyist dioramas often use scales such as 1:35 or 1:48.\n\nAn early, and exceptionally large example was created between 1830 and 1838 by a British Army officer. William Siborne, and represents the Battle of Waterloo at about 7.45 pm, on 18 June, 1815. The diorama measures and used around 70,000 model soldiers in its construction. It is now part of the collection of the National Army Museum in London.\n\nSheperd Paine, a prominent hobbyist, popularized the modern miniature diorama beginning in the 1970s.\n\nModern museum dioramas may be seen in most major natural history museums. Typically, these displays use a tilted plane to represent what would otherwise be a level surface, incorporate a painted background of distant objects, and often employ false perspective, carefully modifying the scale of objects placed on the plane to reinforce the illusion through depth perception in which objects of identical real-world size placed farther from the observer appear smaller than those closer. Often the distant painted background or sky will be painted upon a continuous curved surface so that the viewer is not distracted by corners, seams, or edges. All of these techniques are means of presenting a realistic view of a large scene in a compact space. A photograph or single-eye view of such a diorama can be especially convincing since in this case there is no distraction by the binocular perception of depth.\n\nMiniature dioramas may be used to represent scenes from historic events. A typical example of this type are the dioramas to be seen at Norway's Resistance Museum in Oslo, Norway.\n\nLandscapes built around model railways can also be considered dioramas, even though they often have to compromise scale accuracy for better operating characteristics.\n\nHobbyists also build dioramas of historical or quasi-historical events using a variety of materials, including plastic models of military vehicles, ships or other equipment, along with scale figures and landscaping.\n\nIn the 19th and beginning 20th century, building dioramas of sailing ships had been a popular handcraft of mariners. Building a diorama instead of a normal model had the advantage that in the diorama, the model was protected inside the framework and could easily be stowed below the bunk or behind the sea chest. Nowadays, such antique sailing ship dioramas are valuable collectors' items.\n\nOne of the largest dioramas ever created was a model of the entire State of California built for the Panama-Pacific International Exposition of 1915 and that for a long time was installed in San Francisco's Ferry Building.\n\nDioramas are widely used in the American educational system, mostly in elementary and middle schools. They are often made to represent historical events, ecological biomes, cultural scenes, or to visually depict literature. They are usually made from a shoebox and contain a trompe-l'œil in the background contrasted with two or three-dimensional models in the foreground.\n\nThe Diorama was a popular entertainment that originated in Paris in 1822. An alternative to the also popular \"Panorama\" (panoramic painting), the Diorama was a theatrical experience viewed by an audience in a highly specialized theatre. As many as 350 patrons would file in to view a landscape painting that would change its appearance both subtly and dramatically. Most would stand, though limited seating was provided. The show lasted 10 to 15 minutes, after which time the entire audience (on a massive turntable) would rotate to view a second painting. Later models of the Diorama theater even held a third painting.\n\nThe size of the proscenium was wide by high (7.3 meters x 6.4 meters). Each scene was hand-painted on linen, which was made transparent in selected areas. A series of these multi-layered, linen panels were arranged in a deep, truncated tunnel, then illuminated by sunlight re-directed via skylights, screens, shutters, and colored blinds. Depending on the direction and intensity of the skillfully manipulated light, the scene would appear to change. The effect was so subtle and finely rendered that both critics and the public were astounded, believing they were looking at a natural scene.\n\nThe inventors and proprietors of the Diorama were Charles-Marie Bouton (1781– 1853), a Troubador painter who also worked at the Panorama under Pierre Prévost, and Louis Jacques Mandé Daguerre (1787–1851), formerly a decorator, manufacturer of mirrors, painter of Panoramas, and designer and painter of theatrical stage illusions. Daguerre would later co-invent the daguerreotype, the first widely used method of photography.\n\nA second Diorama building in Regent's Park in London was opened by an association of Englishmen (having a contract to purchase Daguerre's tableaux) in 1823, a year after the debut of Daguerre's Paris original. The building which exhibited the diorama was designed by Augustus Charles Pugin, father of the notable English architect and designer Augustus Welby Northmore Pugin. The show was a popular sensation, and spawned immediate imitations. British artists like Clarkson Stanfield and David Roberts produced ever-more elaborate (moving) dioramas through the 1830s; sound effects and even living performers were added. Some \"typical diorama effects included moonlit nights, winter snow turning into a summer meadow, rainbows after a storm, illuminated fountains,\" waterfalls, thunder and lightning, and ringing bells. A diorama painted by Daguerre is currently housed in the church of the French town Bry-sur-Marne, where he lived and died.\n\n\nExhibition venues : Paris (Pa.1822-28) : London (Lo.1823-32) : Liverpool (Li.1827-32) : Manchester (Ma.1825-27) : Dublin (Du.1826-28) : Edinburgh (Ed.1828-36)\n\n\nUntil 1968, Britain boasted a large collection of dioramas. These collections were originally housed in the Royal United Services Institute Museum, (formerly the Banqueting House), in Whitehall. However, when the museum closed, the various exhibits and their 15 known dioramas were distributed to smaller museums throughout England, some ending up in Canada and elsewhere. These dioramas were the brainchild of the wealthy furrier Otto Gottstein (1892–1951) of Leipzig, a Jewish immigrant from Hitler's Germany, who was an avid collector and designer of flat model figures called flats. In 1930, Gottstein's influence is first seen at the Leipzig International Exhibition, along with the dioramas of Hahnemann of Kiel, Biebel of Berlin and Muller of Erfurt, all displaying their own figures, and those commissioned from such as Ludwig Frank in large diorama form. In 1933, Gottstein left Germany, and in 1935 founded the British Model Soldier Society. Gottstein persuaded designer and painter friends in both Germany and France to help in the construction of dioramas depicting notable events in English history. But due to the war, many of the figures arrived in England incomplete. The task of turning Gottstein's ideas into reality fell to his English friends and those friends who had managed to escape from the Continent. Dennis (Denny) C. Stokes, a talented painter and diorama maker in his own right, was responsible for the painting of the backgrounds of all the dioramas, creating a unity seen throughout the whole series. Denny Stokes was given the overall supervision of the fifteen dioramas.\n\n\nKrunert, Schirmer, Frank, Frauendorf, Maier, Franz Rieche, and Oesterrich were also involved in the manufacture and design of figures for the various dioramas. Krunert (a Viennese), like Gottstein an exile in London, was given the job of engraving for \"‘The Battle of Quebec’\". Unfortunately, the \"‘death of Wolfe’\" was found to be inaccurate and had to be re-designed. The names of the vast majority of painters employed by Gottstein are mostly unknown, most lived and worked on the continent, among them Gustave Kenmow, Leopold Rieche, L. Dunekate, M. Alexandre, A. Ochel, Honey Ray, and, perhaps Gottstein's top painter, Vladimir Douchkine (a Russian émigré who lived in Paris). Douchkine was responsible for painting two figures of the Duke of Marlborough on horseback for \"‘The Blenheim Diorama’\", one of which was used, the other, Gottstein being the true collector, was never released.\n\nDenny Stokes painted all the backgrounds of all the dioramas, Herbert Norris, the Historical Costume Designer, whom Dr. J. F. Lovel-Barnes introduced to Gottstein, was responsible for the costume design of the Ancient Britons, the Normans and Saxons, some of the figures of \"‘The Field of the Cloth of Gold’\" and the Elizabethan figures for \"‘Queen Elizabeth at Tilbury’\". Dr. J.F. Lovel-Barnes was himself responsible for the \"‘Battle of Blenheim’\" diorama, selecting the figures, and arrangement of the scene. Due to World War II, when flat figures became unavailable, Gottstein completed his ideas by using Greenwood and Ball's 20 mm figures. In time, a fifteenth diorama was added, using these 20 mm figures, this diorama representing the \"‘D-Day landings’\". When all the dioramas were completed, they were displayed along one wall in the Royal United Services Institute Museum. When the museum was closed the fifteen dioramas were distributed to various museums and institutions. The greatest number are to be found at the Glenbow Museum, (130-9th Avenue, S. E. Calgary, Alberta, Canada): RE: \"'The Landing of the Romans under Julius Caesar in 55 BC', 'The Battle Of Crecy', 'The Battle of Blenheim', 'The Old Guard at Waterloo', 'The Charge of the Light Brigade at Balaclava'.\"\nThe state of these dioramas is one of debate; John Garratt (\"The World of Model Soldiers\") claimed in 1968, that the dioramas \"appear to have been partially broken up and individual figures have been sold to collectors\". According to the Glenbow Institute (Barry Agnew, Curator) \"the figures are still in reasonable condition, but the plaster groundwork has suffered considerable deterioration\". Unfortunately, there are no photographs available of the dioramas. \"‘The Battle of Hastings’\" diorama was to be found in the Old Town Museum, Hastings, and is still in reasonable condition. It shows the Norman cavalry charging up Senlac Hill towards the Saxon lines. \n'‘The Storming of Acre’\" is in the Museum of Artillery at the Rotunda, Woolwich. John Garratt, in the \"Encyclopedia of Model Soldiers\", states that \"‘The Field of the Cloth of Gold’\" was in the possession of the Royal Military School of Music, Kneller Hall; however, according to the Curator, the diorama had not been in his possession since 1980, nor is it listed in their Accession Book, so the whereabouts of this diorama is unknown.\n\nSan Francisco, California artist Frank Wong (born 22 September 1932) created miniature dioramas that depict the San Francisco Chinatown of his youth during the 1930s and 1940s. \nIn 2004, Wong donated seven miniatures of scenes of Chinatown, titled \"The Chinatown Miniatures Collection\", to Chinese Historical Society of America (CHSA). The dioramas are on permanent display in CHSA's Main Gallery:\n\n\nSan Francisco filmmaker James Chan is producing and directing a documentary about Wong and the \"changing landscape of Chinatown\" in San Francisco. The documentary is tentatively titled, \"Frank Wong's Chinatown\".\n\nPainters of the Romantic era like John Martin and Francis Danby were influenced to create large and highly dramatic pictures by the sensational dioramas and panoramas of their day. In one case, the connection between life and diorama art became intensely circular. On 1 February 1829, John Martin's brother Jonathan, known as \"Mad Martin,\" set fire to the roof of York Minster. Clarkson Stanfield created a diorama re-enactment of the event, which premiered on 20 April of the same year; it employed a \"safe fire\" via chemical reaction as a special effect. On 27 May, the \"safe\" fire proved to be less safe than planned: it set a real fire in the painted cloths of the imitation fire, which burned down the theater and all of its dioramas.\n\nNonetheless, dioramas remained popular in England, Scotland, and Ireland through most of the 19th century, lasting until 1880.\n\nA small scale version of the diorama called the Polyrama Panoptique could display images in the home and was marketed from the 1820s.\n\nNatural history dioramas seek to imitate nature and, since their conception in the late 19th century, aim to \"nurture a reverence for nature [with its] beauty and grandeur\". They have also been described as a means to visually preserve nature as different environments change due to human involvement. They were extremely popular during the first half of the 20th century, both in the USA and UK, later on giving way to television, film, and new perspectives on science.\nLike historical dioramas, natural history dioramas are a mix of two- and three-dimensional elements. What sets natural history dioramas apart from other categories is the use of taxidermy in addition to the foreground replicas and painted background. The use of taxidermy means that natural history dioramas derive not only from Daguerre's work, but also from that of taxidermists, who were used to preparing specimens for either science or spectacle. It was only with the dioramas' precursors (and, later on, dioramas) that both these objectives merged. Popular diorama precursors were produced by Charles Willson Peale, an artist with an interest in taxidermy, during the early 19th century. To present his specimens, Peale \"painted skies and landscapes on the back of cases displaying his taxidermy specimens\". By the late 19th century, the British Museum held an exhibition featuring taxidermy birds set on models of plants.\n\nThe first habitat diorama created for a museum was constructed by taxidermist Carl Akeley for the Milwaukee Public Museum in 1889, where it is still held. Akeley set taxidermy muskrats in a three-dimensional re-creation of their wetland habitat with a realistic painted background. With the support of curator Frank M. Chapman, Akeley designed the popular habitat dioramas featured at the American Museum of Natural History. Combining art with science, these exhibitions were intended to educate the public about the growing need for habitat conservation. The modern AMNH Exhibitions Lab is charged with the creation of all dioramas and otherwise immersive environments in the museum.\n\nA predecessor of Akeley, naturalist and taxidermist Martha Maxwell, created a famous habitat diorama for the first World's Fair in 1876. The complex diorama featured taxidermied animals in realistic action poses, running water, and live prairie dogs. It is speculated this display was the first of its kind [outside of a museum]. Maxwell's pioneering diorama work is said to have influenced major figures in taxidermy history who entered the field later, such as Akeley and William Temple Hornaday. \n\nSoon, the concern for accuracy came. Groups of scientists, taxidermists, and artists would go on expeditions to ensure accurate backgrounds and collect specimens, though some would be donated by game hunters. Natural history dioramas reached the peak of their grandeur with the opening of the Akeley Hall of African Mammals in 1936, which featured large animals, such as elephants, surrounded by even larger scenery. Nowadays, various institutions lay different claims to notable dioramas. The Milwaukee Public Museum still displays the world's first diorama, created by Akeley; the American Museum of Natural History, in New York, has what might be the world's largest diorama: a life-size replica of a blue whale; the Powell-Cotton Museum, in Kent, UK, is known for having the world's oldest, unchanged, room-sized diorama, built in 1896.\n\nNatural history dioramas consist of 3 parts:\n\n\nPreparations for the background begin on the field, where an artist takes photographs and sketches references pieces. Once back at the museum, the artist has to depict the scenery with as much realism as possible. The challenge lies in the fact that the wall used is curved: this allows the background to surround the display without seams joining different panels. At times the wall also curves upward to meet the light above and form a sky. By having a curved wall, whatever the artist paints will be distorted by perspective; it is the artist's job to paint in such a way that minimises this distortion.\n\nThe foreground is created to mimic the ground, plants and other accessories to scenery. The ground, hills, rocks, and large trees are created with wood, wire mesh, and plaster. Smaller trees are either used in their entirety or replicated using casts. Grasses and shrubs can be preserved in solution or dried to then be added to the diorama. Ground debris, such as leaf litter, is collected on site and soaked in wallpaper paste for preservation and presentation in the diorama. Water is simulated using glass or plexiglass with ripples carved on the surface. For a diorama to be successful, the foreground and background must merge, so both artists have to work together.\n\nTaxidermy specimens are usually the centrepiece of dioramas. Since they must entertain, as well as educate, specimens are set in lifelike poses, so as to convey a narrative of an animal's life. Smaller animals are usually made with rubber moulds and painted. Larger animals are prepared by first making a clay sculpture of the animal. This sculpture is made over the actual, posed skeleton of the animal, with reference to moulds and measurements taken on the field. A papier-mâché mannequin is prepared from the clay sculpture and the animal's tanned skin is sewn onto the mannequin. Glass eyes substitute the real ones.\n\nIf an animal is large enough, the scaffolding that holds the specimen needs to be incorporated into the foreground design and construction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2400036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400036", "title": "Elliott H. Lieb", "text": "Elliott H. Lieb\n\nElliott Hershel Lieb (born July 31, 1932) is an American mathematical physicist and professor of mathematics and physics at Princeton University who specializes in statistical mechanics, condensed matter theory, and functional analysis.\n\nIn particular, his scientific works pertain to: the quantum and classical many-body problem, the stability of matter, atomic structure, the theory of magnetism, and the Hubbard model.\n\nHe is a prolific author in mathematics and physics with over 300 publications. He received his B.S. in physics from MIT (1953) and his Ph.D. in mathematical physics from the University of Birmingham in England (1956). Lieb was a (1956–1957) Fulbright Fellow at Kyoto University, Japan and for some time worked as the Staff Theoretical Physicist for IBM.\n\nHe has been a professor at Princeton since 1975, following a leave from his professorship at MIT. Lieb has been awarded several prizes in mathematics and physics, including the 1978 Heineman Prize for Mathematical Physics of the American Physical Society and the American Institute of Physics (1978), the Max Planck Medal of the German Physical Society (1992), the Boltzmann medal of the International Union of Pure and Applied Physics (1998), the Schock Prize (2001), and the Henri Poincaré Prize of the International Association of Mathematical Physics (2003). He is a member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences and has twice served (1982–1984 and 1997–1999) as the President of the International Association of Mathematical Physics. Lieb was awarded the Austrian Decoration for Science and Art in 2002. In 2012 he became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society and in 2013 a Foreign Member of the Royal Society.\n\nHe is married to fellow Princeton professor Christiane Fellbaum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1494112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1494112", "title": "Emil Schlagintweit", "text": "Emil Schlagintweit\n\nEmil Schlagintweit (7 July 1835 – 29 October 1904) was a German scholar noted for his work on Buddhism in Tibet.\n\nSchlagintweit was the youngest of the five Schlagintweit brothers of Munich. His father was a wealthy eye-surgeon, his mother died when he was quite young, and he was tutored by Franz Joseph Lauth, later a noted Egyptologist. The brothers' interest in exploration was sparked by Alexander von Humboldt's \"Cosmos\", the first volume of which appeared in 1845, and which led to their explorations of the Alps and in turn to Asia's mountains.\n\nAfter his brother Hermann's death in 1882, he inherited Schloß Jägersburg, their large estate near Forchheim, and the brothers' collections and papers. \nNot an explorer himself, he sold 102 Tibetan manuscripts and block-books collected by his brothers to the Bodleian Library at Oxford University where they remain.\n\nHis work was later used by Helena Blavatsky as evidence for her interpretations of \"esoteric Buddhism\" (Blavatsky herself did not approve of the term \"esoteric Buddhism,\" to which she preferred \"the Secret Doctrine,\" Occultism, or Sacred Science).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "303486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303486", "title": "Ethnolinguistics", "text": "Ethnolinguistics\n\nEthnolinguistics (sometimes called cultural linguistics) is a field of linguistics that studies the relationship between language and culture and how different ethnic groups perceive the world. It is the combination between ethnology and linguistics. The former refers to the way of life of an entire community: all the characteristics that distinguish one community from the other. Such characteristics make the cultural aspects of a community or a society.\n\nEthnolinguists study the way perception and conceptualization influences language and show how that is linked to different cultures and societies. An example is how spatial orientation is expressed in various cultures. In many societies, words for the cardinal directions \"east\" and \"west\" are derived from terms for sunrise/sunset. The nomenclature for cardinal directions of Inuit speakers of Greenland, however, is based on geographical landmarks such as the river system and one's position on the coast. Similarly, the Yurok lack the idea of cardinal directions; they orient themselves with respect to their principal geographic feature, the Klamath River.\n\nCultural Linguistics is a related branch of linguistics that explores the relationship between language and cultural conceptualisations. Cultural Linguistics draws on and expands the theoretical and analytical advancements in cognitive science (including complexity science and distributed cognition) and anthropology. Cultural linguistics examines how various features of human languages encode cultural conceptualisations, including cultural schemas, cultural categories, and cultural metaphors. In , language is viewed as deeply entrenched in the group-level, cultural cognition of communities of speakers. Thus far, the approach of Cultural Linguistics has been adopted in several areas of applied linguistic research, including intercultural communication, second language learning, Teaching English as an International Language, and World Englishes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41338940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41338940", "title": "Feminist movement", "text": "Feminist movement\n\nThe feminist movement (also known as the women's movement, or simply feminism) refers to a series of political campaigns for reforms on issues such as reproductive rights, domestic violence, maternity leave, equal pay, women's suffrage, sexual harassment, and sexual violence, all of which fall under the label of feminism and the feminist movement. The movement's priorities vary among nations and communities, and range from opposition to female genital mutilation in one country, to opposition to the glass ceiling in another.\n\nFeminism in parts of the western world has gone through three waves. First-wave feminism was oriented around the station of middle- or upper-class white women and involved suffrage and political equality. Second-wave feminism attempted to further combat social and cultural inequalities. Although the first wave of feminism involved mainly middle class white women, the second wave brought in women of color and women from other developing nations that were seeking solidarity. Third-wave feminism is continuing to address the financial, social and cultural inequalities and includes renewed campaigning for greater influence of women in politics and media. In reaction to political activism, feminists have also had to maintain focus on women's reproductive rights, such as the right to abortion.\n\nFeminism in China started in the 20th century with the Chinese Revolution in 1911. In China, Feminism has a strong association with socialism and class issues. Some commentators believe that this close association is damaging to Chinese feminism and argue that the interests of party are placed before those of women.\n\nFeminism in the United States, Canada and a number of countries in western Europe has been divided into three waves by feminist scholars: first, second and third-wave feminism. Recent (early 2010s) research suggests there may be a fourth wave characterized, in part, by new media platforms.\n\nThe women’s movement became more popular in May 1968 when women began to read again, more widely, the book The Second Sex, written in 1949 by a defender of women’s rights, Simone de Beauvoir, (and translated into English for the first time in 1953; later translation 2009). De Beauvior's writing explained why it was difficult for talented women to become successful. The obstacles de Beauvoir enumerates include women’s inability to make as much money as men do in the same profession, women’s domestic responsibilities, society’s lack of support towards talented women, and women’s fear that success will lead to an annoyed husband or prevent them from even finding a husband at all. De Beauvoir also argues that woman lack ambition because of how they are raised. Girls are told to follow the duties of their mothers, whereas boys are told to exceed the accomplishments of their fathers. Along with other influences, Simone de Beauvoir’s work helped the feminist movement to erupt, causing the formation of Le Mouvement de Libération des Femmes (The Women’s Liberation Movement). This determined group of women wanted to turn these ideas into actions. Contributors to The Women’s Liberation Movement include Simone de Beauvoir, Christiane Rochefort, Christine Delphy and Anne Tristan. Through actions the women were able to get few equal rights for example right to education, right to work, and right to vote. One of the most important issues that The Women’s Liberation movement faced was the banning of abortion and contraception. The women saw this banning as a violation of women’s rights and were determined to fight it. Thus, the women made a declaration known as Le Manifeste de 343 which held signatures from 343 women admitting to having had an illegal abortion. The declaration got published in Le Nouvel Observateur and Le Monde, two French newspapers on 5 April 1971. The group gained support upon the publication. Women received the right to abort with the passing of the Veil Law in 1975.\n\nThe Women's movement effected change in Western society, including women's suffrage, the right to initiate divorce proceedings and \"no fault\" divorce, the right of women to make individual decisions regarding pregnancy (including access to contraceptives and abortion), and the right to own property. It has also led to broad employment for women at more equitable wages, and access to university education.\n\nIn 1918 Crystal Eastman wrote an article published in the Birth Control Review, she contended that birth control is a fundamental right for women and must be available as an alternative if they are to participate fully in the modern world. “In short, if feminism, conscious and bold and intelligent, leads the demand, it will be supported by the secret eagerness of all women to control the size of their families, and a suffrage state should make short work of repealing these old laws that stand in the way of birth control.” She stated “I don’t believe there is one woman within the confines of this state who does not believe in birth control!”\n\nThe \"United Nations Human Development Report 2004\" estimated that when both paid employment and unpaid household tasks are accounted for, on average women work more than men. In rural areas of selected developing countries women performed an average of 20% more work than men, or 120% of men's total work, an additional 102 minutes per day. In the OECD countries surveyed, on average women performed 5% more work than men, or 105% of men's total work—an additional 20 minutes per day. However, men did up to 19 minutes more work per day than women in five out of the eighteen OECD countries surveyed: Canada, Denmark, Hungary, Israel, and The Netherlands. According to UN Women, \"Women perform 66 percent of the world's work, produce 50 percent of the food, but earn 10 percent of the income and own 1 percent of the property.\"\n\nThe feminist movement's agenda includes acting as a counter to the putatively patriarchal strands in the dominant culture. While differing during the progression of waves, it is a movement that has sought to challenge the political structure, power holders, and cultural beliefs or practices.\n\nAlthough antecedents to feminism may be found far back before the 18th century, the seeds of the modern feminist movement were planted during the late part of that century. Christine de Pizan, a late medieval writer, was possibly the earliest feminist in the western tradition. She is believed to be the first woman to make a living out of writing. Feminist thought began to take a more substantial shape during the Enlightenment with such thinkers as Lady Mary Wortley Montagu and the Marquis de Condorcet championing women's education. The first scientific society for women was founded in Middelburg, a city in the south of the Dutch republic, in 1785. Journals for women that focused on issues like science became popular during this period as well.\n\nThe women who made the first efforts towards women's suffrage came from more stable and privileged backgrounds, and were able to dedicate time and energy into making change. Initial developments for women, therefore, mainly benefited white women in the middle and upper classes.\n\nPrior to the 20th century, women in China were considered essentially different from men.\n\nIn the patriarchal society, the struggle for women's emancipation means to enact laws that guarantee women's full equality of race, sex, property and freedom of marriage. In order to further eliminate the legacy of the class society of patriarchal women (drowning of infants, corset, footbinding, etc.), discrimination, play, mutilate women's traditional prejudice and habitual forces on the basis of the development of productive forces, it is gradually needful on achieving gender in politics, economy, social and family aspects of equality.\n\nBefore the westernization movement and the reform movement, women had set off a wave of their own strength in the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom (1851–1864). However, there are too many women from the bottom identities in the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom. It is difficult to get rid of the fate of being used. Until the end of the Qing Dynasty, women with more knowledges took the initiative in the fight for women's rights and that is where feminism basically started.\n\nThe term 'feminism' was first transmitted to China in 1791 which was proposed by Olympe de Gouges and promoted the 'women's liberation'. The feminist movement in China was mainly kickstarted and driven by male feminists prior to female feminists.\n\nKey male feminists in China in the 19th to 20th century included Liang Qichao, Ma Junwu and Jin Tianhe. In 1897, Liang Qichao proposed banning of foot-binding and encouraged women to engage in the workforce, political environment and education. The foot-binding costume had long been established in China which was an act to display the beauty and social status of women by binding their feet into an extremely small shoe with good decorations and ornaments. Liang Qichao proposed the abolishment of this act due to concern the health of female being a supportive wives and caring mothers. He also proposed to reduce the number of female dependents in family and encouraged women to receive the rights of education and enter the workforce to be economic independent from men and finally help the nation to reach higher wealth and prosperity. For feminist Ma Junwu and Jin Tianhe, they both supported the equality between husbands and wives, women enjoy legitimate and equal rights and also rights to enter the political sphere. A key assertion from Jin Tianhe was women as the mother of the nation. These views from male feminists in early feminism in China represented the image of ideal women in the imagination of men.\n\nKey female feminists in China in the 19th to 20th century included Lin Zongsu, He Zhen, Chen Xiefen and Qiu Jin. The female feminists in early China focused more on the methods or ways that women should behave and liberate themselves to achieve equal and deserved rights and independence. He Zhen expressed her opinion that women's liberation was not correlated to the interest of the nation and she analysed three reasons behind the male feminists included: following the Western trend, to alleviate their financial burdens and high quality of reproduction. Besides, Li Zongsu proposed that women should strive for their legitimate rights which includes broader aspects than the male feminists: call for their own right over men, the Qing Court and in an international extent.\n\nIn the Qing Dynasty, the discussion on feminism had two dimensions including the sex differences between men and women such as maternal role and duties of women and social difference between genders; the other dimension was the aim of liberation of women. The view of the feminists were diverse: some believed feminism was benefiting the nation and some believed feminism was associated with the individual development of female in improving their rights and welfare.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Marxist philosophy about female and feminism was transmitted to China and became the guiding principle of feminism movement in China by introducing class struggle theories to address gender quality. In the 1990s, more female scholars were adapted to feminism in Western countries, and they promoted feminism and equal rights for women by publishing, translating and carrying out research on global feminism and made feminism in China as one part of their study to raise more concern and awareness for gender equality issues.\n\nFeminists are sometimes, though not exclusively, proponents of using non-sexist language, such as using \"Ms.\" to refer to both married and unmarried women. Feminists are also often proponents of using \"gender-inclusive\" language, such as \"humanity\" instead of \"mankind\", or \"they\" in place of \"he\" where the gender is unknown.\n\nGender-neutral language is language usage which is aimed at minimizing assumptions regarding the gender of human referents. The advocacy of gender-neutral language reflects, at least, two different agendas: one aims to clarify the \"inclusion\" of both sexes or genders (gender-inclusive language); the other proposes that gender, as a category, is rarely worth marking in language (gender-neutral language). Gender-neutral language is sometimes described as \"non-sexist language\" by advocates and \"politically correct language\" by opponents.\n\nNot only has the movement come to change the language into gender neutral but the feminist movement has brought up how people use language. Emily Martin describes the concept of how metaphors are gendered and ingrained into everyday life. Metaphors are used in everyday language and have become a way that people describe the world. Martin explains that these metaphors structure how people think and in regards to science can shape what questions are being asked. If the right questions are not being asked then the answers are not going to be the right either. For example, the aggressive sperm and passive egg is a metaphor that felt 'natural' to people in history but as scientists have reexamined this phenomenon they have come up with a new answer. \"The sperm tries to pull its getaway act even on the egg itself, but is held down against its struggles by molecules on the surface of the egg that hook together with counterparts on the sperm's surface, fastening the sperm until the egg can absorb it.\" This is a goal in feminism to see these gendered metaphors and bring it to the public's attention. The outcome of looking at things in a new perspective can produce new information.\n\nThe increased entry of women into the workplace beginning in the 20th century has affected gender roles and the division of labor within households. Sociologist Arlie Russell Hochschild in \"The Second Shift\" and \"The Time Bind\" presents evidence that in two-career couples, men and women, on average, spend about equal amounts of time working, but women still spend more time on housework. Feminist writer Cathy Young responds to Hochschild's assertions by arguing that, in some cases, women may prevent the equal participation of men in housework and parenting. Economists Mark Aguiar and Erik Hurst calculate that the amount of time spent on housework by women since the 1960s has dropped considerably. Leisure for both men and women has risen significantly and by about the same amount for both sexes. Jeremy Greenwood, Ananth Seshadri and Mehmet Yorukoglu argue that the introduction of modern appliances into the home has allowed women to enter the work force.\n\nFeminist criticisms of men's contributions to child care and domestic labor in the Western middle class are typically centered around the idea that it is unfair for women to be expected to perform more than half of a household's domestic work and child care when both members of the relationship perform an equal share of work outside the home. Several studies provide statistical evidence that the financial income of married men does not affect their rate of attending to household duties.\n\nIn \"Dubious Conceptions\", Kristin Luker discusses the effect of feminism on teenage women's choices to bear children, both in and out of wedlock. She says that as childbearing out of wedlock has become more socially acceptable, young women, especially poor young women, while not bearing children at a higher rate than in the 1950s, now see less of a reason to get married before having a child. Her explanation for this is that the economic prospects for poor men are slim, hence poor women have a low chance of finding a husband who will be able to provide reliable financial support due to the rise of unemployment from more workers on the market, from just men to women and men.\n\nSome studies have suggested that both men and women perceive feminism as being incompatible with romance. However, a recent survey of U.S. undergraduates and older adults found that feminism actually has a positive impact on relationship health for women and sexual satisfaction for men, and found no support for negative stereotypes of feminists.\n\nVirginia Satir said the need for relationship education emerged from shifting gender roles as women gained greater rights and freedoms during the 20th century:\nFeminist theology is a movement that reconsiders the traditions, practices, scriptures, and theologies of religions from a feminist perspective. Some of the goals of feminist theology include increasing the role of women among the clergy and religious authorities, reinterpreting male-dominated imagery and language about God, determining the place of women in relation to career and motherhood, and studying images of women in the religion's sacred texts.\n\nThe feminist movement has affected religion and theology in profound ways. In liberal branches of Protestant Christianity, women are now allowed to be ordained as clergy, and in Reform, Conservative and Reconstructionist Judaism, women are now allowed to be ordained as rabbis and cantors. In some of these groups, some women are gradually obtaining positions of power that were formerly only held by men, and their perspectives are now sought out in developing new statements of belief. These trends, however, have been resisted within most sects of Islam, Roman Catholicism, and Orthodox Christianity. Within Roman Catholicism, most women understand that, through the dogma of the faith, they are to hold, within the family, a place of love and focus on the family. They also understand the need to rise above that doesn't necessarily constitute a woman to be considered less than, but in fact equal to, that of her husband who is called to be the patriarch of the family and provide love and guidance to his family as well.\n\nChristian feminism is a branch of feminist theology which seeks to reinterpret and understand Christianity in light of the equality of women and men (Feminine Genius, St. Pope John Paul II, Vatican.va). While there is no standard set of beliefs among Christian feminists, most agree that God does not discriminate on the basis of biologically determined characteristics such as sex.\n\nEarly feminists such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton concentrated almost solely on \"making women equal to men.\" However, the Christian feminist movement chose to concentrate on the language of religion because they viewed the historic gendering of God as male as a result of the pervasive influence of patriarchy. Rosemary Radford Ruether provided a systematic critique of Christian theology from a feminist and theist point of view. Stanton was an agnostic and Reuther is an agnostic who was born to Catholic parents but no longer practices the faith.\n\nIslamic feminism is concerned with the role of women in Islam and aims for the full equality of all Muslims, regardless of gender, in public and private life. Although rooted in Islam, the movement's pioneers have also utilized secular and Western feminist discourses. Advocates of the movement seek to highlight the deeply rooted teachings of equality in the Quran and encourage a questioning of the patriarchal interpretation of Islamic teaching through the Quran, \"hadith\" (sayings of Muhammad), and \"sharia\" (law) towards the creation of a more equal and just society.\n\nJewish feminism seeks to improve the religious, legal, and social status of women within Judaism and to open up new opportunities for religious experience and leadership for Jewish women. In its modern form, the movement can be traced to the early 1970s in the United States. According to Judith Plaskow, who has focused on feminism in Reform Judaism, the main issues for early Jewish feminists in these movements were the exclusion from the all-male prayer group or \"minyan\", the exemption from positive time-bound \"mitzvot\", and women's inability to function as witnesses and to initiate divorce.\n\nHistorically there has been a need to study and contribute to the health and well-being of a woman that previously has been lacking. Londa Schiebinger suggests that the common biomedical model is no longer adequate and there is a need for a broader model to ensure that all aspects of a woman are being cared for. Schiebinger describes six contributions that must occur in order to have success: political movement, academic women studies, affirmative action, health equality act, geo-political forces, and professional women not being afraid to talk openly about women issues. Political movements come from the streets and are what the people as a whole want to see changed. An academic women study is the support from universities in order to teach a subject that most people have never encountered. Affirmative action enacted is a legal change to acknowledge and do something for the times of neglect people were subjected to. Women's Health Equity Act legally enforces the idea that medicine needs to be tested in suitable standards such as including women in research studies and is also allocates a set amount of money to research diseases that are specific towards women. Research has shown that there is a lack of research in autoimmune disease, which mainly affects women. \"Despite their prevalence and morbidity, little progress has been made toward a better understanding of those conditions, identifying risk factors, or developing a cure\" this article reinforces the progress that still needs to be made. Geo-political forces can improve health, when the country is not at a sense of threat in war there is more funding and resources to focus on other needs, such as women's health. Lastly, professional women not being afraid to talk about women's issues moves women from entering into these jobs and preventing them for just acting as men and instead embracing their concerns for the health of women. These six factors need to be included in order for there to be change in women's health.\n\nFeminist activists have established a range of feminist businesses, including women's bookstores, feminist credit unions, feminist presses, feminist mail-order catalogs, and feminist restaurants. These businesses flourished as part of the second and third-waves of feminism in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27144108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27144108", "title": "Flash Me Magazine", "text": "Flash Me Magazine\n\nFlash Me Magazine is one of the longest running online magazines devoted to publishing flash fiction stories. It is a quarterly publication by Winged Halo Productions. It is a paying market, accepting all genres of fiction under 1,000 words. It is also one of the few markets that offer editorial feedback with rejection letters. Issues are published on January 31, April 30, July 31, and October 31. The magazine has its headquarters in Belleville, Illinois.\n\nThroughout its history, \"Flash Me Magazine\" has supported and promoted the art of flash fiction writing with its Lightning Flash Fiction Contests, its Flash For BIG Cash Anthologies, and now with its Flash Fiction Boot Camp series. All proceeds raised from these projects help fund the magazine. The editors of Flash Me Magazine believe flash fiction authors aren't recognized often enough, and choose to showcase one author each quarter as its Feature Story. They also annually nominate authors for the Pushcart Prize.\n\nIn addition to the main website, \"Flash Me Magazine\" can be found on Facebook and MySpace. Its official blog, The Slush Pile, offers updates on incoming submissions and other news. \"Flash Me Magazine\" can be found in various market listings, most notably in Duotrope and Ralan.com. It is a member of the Speculative Literature Foundation Small Press Co-operative.\n\nA complete list of all the authors published in Flash Me Magazine can be found in their archives.\n\n\"These include:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4529105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4529105", "title": "Gonzales v. Carhart", "text": "Gonzales v. Carhart\n\nGonzales v. Carhart, 550 U.S. 124 (2007), is a United States Supreme Court case that upheld the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003. The case reached the high court after U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales appealed a ruling of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in favor of LeRoy Carhart that struck down the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act. Also before the Supreme Court was the consolidated appeal of Gonzales v. Planned Parenthood from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which had struck down the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act.\n\nThe Supreme Court's decision upheld Congress's ban and held that it did not impose an undue burden on the due process right of women to obtain an abortion, \"under precedents we here assume to be controlling,\" such as the Court's prior decisions in \"Roe v. Wade\" and \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey.\" In a legal sense, the case distinguished but did not overrule \"Stenberg v. Carhart\" (2000), in which the Court dealt with related issues. However, \"Gonzales\" was widely interpreted as signaling a shift in Supreme Court jurisprudence toward a restriction of abortion rights, occasioned in part by the retirement of Sandra Day O'Connor and her replacement by Samuel Alito.\n\nThe court found that there is \"uncertainty [in the medical community] over whether the barred procedure is ever necessary to preserve a woman's health\"; and in the past the court \"has given state and federal legislatures wide discretion to pass legislation in areas where there is medical and scientific uncertainty.\"\n\nThe Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act was signed into law by President Bush on November 5, 2003. It was found unconstitutional in the U.S. District Courts for the Northern District of California, the Southern District of New York, and the District of Nebraska.\n\nThe federal government appealed the district court rulings, first bringing \"Carhart v. Gonzales\" before a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. The panel unanimously affirmed the ruling of the Nebraska court on July 8, 2005. Finding that the government offered no \"new evidence which would serve to distinguish this record from the record reviewed by the Supreme Court in \"Stenberg\",\" they held that the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act was unconstitutional because it lacked an exception for the health of the woman.\n\nAttorney General Gonzales petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to review the Eighth Circuit decision on September 25, 2005. Meanwhile, the Ninth Circuit also found the law unconstitutional, as did the Second Circuit (with a dissent), issuing their opinions on January 31, 2006. The Supreme Court agreed to hear the \"Carhart\" case on February 21, 2006, and agreed to hear the companion \"Planned Parenthood\" case on June 19, 2006.\n\nOral arguments in this case (as well as its companion case) occurred on November 7, 2006. U.S. Solicitor General Paul Clement, presented arguments for the United States, and Priscilla Smith presented arguments for Dr. Carhart \"et al.\" Solicitor General Clement also presented arguments for the United States in the companion case of \"Gonzales v. Planned Parenthood\". Eve Gartner presented arguments for Planned Parenthood. The Supreme Court has made available audio of the oral arguments, in both \"Carhart\" and \"Planned Parenthood\".\n\nJustice Anthony Kennedy wrote for the Court that the respondents had failed to prove that Congress lacked authority to ban this abortion procedure. Chief Justice John Roberts, Justice Samuel Alito, Justice Clarence Thomas, and Justice Antonin Scalia agreed with the Court's judgment, joining Kennedy's opinion.\n\nThe Court left the door open for as-applied challenges, citing its recent precedent in \"Ayotte v. Planned Parenthood of New England\". According to \"Washington Post\" reporter Benjamin Wittes, \"The Court majority, following the path it sketched out last year in the New Hampshire case, decided to let the law stand as a facial matter and let the parties fight later about what, if any, applications need to be blocked.\"\n\nThe Court decided to \"assume ... for the purposes of this opinion\" the principles of \"Roe v. Wade\" and \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\".\n\nThe Court said that the lower courts had repudiated a central premise of \"Casey\" — that the state has an interest in preserving fetal life — and the Court held that the ban fit that interest so as not to create an undue burden. The opinion did not rely deferentially on Congress's findings that this intact dilation and extraction procedure is never needed to protect the health of a pregnant woman; in fact the Court found that \"evidence presented in the District Courts contradicts that conclusion.\" However, Kennedy wrote that a health exception was unnecessary: where medical testimony disputes Congress's findings, Congress is still entitled to regulate in an area where the medical community has not reached a \"consensus.\"\n\nIn addition, the Court distinguished this case from the \"Stenberg\" case (in which the Court struck down Nebraska's partial-birth abortion law) by holding that the state statute at issue in \"Stenberg\" was more ambiguous than the later federal statute at issue in \"Carhart\".\n\nWithout discussing the constitutional rationale of the Court's prior abortion cases (i.e. \"due process\"), the majority opinion stated it disagreed with the Eighth Circuit's determination that the federal statute conflicted with \"the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment, [which] is textually identical to the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\"\n\nJustice Thomas filed a concurring opinion, joined by Justice Scalia, which mentions saving for another day the issue of whether Congress had sufficient power under the Commerce Clause to enact this ban. The Commerce Clause (the only Constitutional clause mentioned explicitly in any of the decision's three opinions) was also mentioned in the majority opinion.\n\nThe concurrence also stated that Justices Thomas and Scalia joined the Court's opinion \"because it accurately applies current jurisprudence.\" In addition, the concurrence reiterated the justices' view that current abortion jurisprudence \"has no basis in the Constitution.\" Nadine Strossen, president of the ACLU at the time, pointed out that \"no less an anti-abortion proponent than Justice Scalia joined by Justice Thomas, in his separate opinion, chided the majority for not coming out and explicitly saying that they had overturned not \"Roe v. Wade\", but the prior partial-birth abortion ban case.\"\n\nJoined by justices David Souter, John Paul Stevens, and Stephen Breyer, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented, contending that the ruling was an \"alarming\" one that ignored Supreme Court abortion precedent and \"refuse[d] to take \"Casey\" and \"Stenberg\" seriously.\" Referring in particular to \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\", Ginsburg sought to ground the Court's abortion jurisprudence based on concepts of personal autonomy and equal citizenship rather than the Court's previous privacy approach: \"Thus, legal challenges to undue restrictions on abortion procedures do not seek to vindicate some generalized notion of privacy; rather, they center on a woman's autonomy to determine her life's course, and thus to enjoy equal citizenship stature.\"\n\nGinsburg also took issue with the lack of a health exception, writing that \"the absence of a health exception burdens all women for whom it is relevant—women who, in the judgment of their doctors, require an intact D&E because other procedures would place their health at risk.\" In general, the dissent criticized the usurpation of medical decision-making by legislators and the minimization of \"the reasoned medical judgments of highly trained doctors ... as 'preferences' motivated by 'mere convenience'.\"\n\nObserving that the majority opinion in \"Carhart\" did not touch upon the question of whether the Court's prior decisions in \"Roe v. Wade\" and \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" were valid, Justice Ginsburg wrote, \"Casey's principles, confirming the continuing vitality of 'the essential holding of Roe,' are merely 'assume[d]' for the moment ... rather than 'retained' or 'reaffirmed.'\" She concluded by criticizing the majority for abandoning the principle of \"stare decisis\", writing that \"a decision so at odds with our jurisprudence should not have staying power.\"\n\nAccording to an ABC News poll, the majority of Americans (69%) oppose the legality of D&X or what opponents call \"partial-birth\" abortion.\n\nSome medical groups expressed concern that the Court, in supporting the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, endorsed the substitution of congressional legislation for medical judgment. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, which had submitted an amicus brief opposing the Act, described the Court's decision as \"shameful and incomprehensible\", ignorant of medical consensus, and chilling for the medical profession. The \"New England Journal of Medicine\" criticized the intrusion of politicians into medical decision-making, writing:\n\nUntil this opinion, the Court recognized the importance of not interfering with medical judgments made by physicians to protect a patient's interest. For the first time, the Court permits congressional judgment to replace medical judgment.\n\nProfessor and academic Geoffrey R. Stone has argued that the religion of Supreme Court judges played an important role in the decision, given that the five judges in the majority were Catholic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57683286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57683286", "title": "Grammarians of Basrah", "text": "Grammarians of Basrah\n\nThe Grammarians of Basrah were grammarians and language scholars of Basra in the Islamic Golden Age, who laid down the rules of grammar and of literary style, and whose teachings and writings became the canon of the Arabic language. Shortly after the school's foundation in Basra, a rival school was established in Kufa, by the Grammarians of Kufa. The book \"Kitab al-Fihrist\" by the tenth century author, Ibn Ishaq al-Warraq, known as \"al-Nadim\", provides biographical details of the leading figures and is the principal source for early accounts of the two schools. The schools represent the two main branches in the development of Arabic grammar and punctuation, linguistics, philology, Quranic exegesis and recital, Hadith, poetry and literature.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6729727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6729727", "title": "Head (geology)", "text": "Head (geology)\n\nHead describes deposits consisting of fragmented material which, following weathering, have moved downslope through a process of solifluction. The term has been used by British geologists since the middle of the 19th century to describe such material in a range of different settings from flat hilltops to the bottoms of valleys. Areas identified as head include deposits of aeolian origin such as blown sand and loess, slope deposits such as gelifluctates and solifluctates, and recently eroded soil material, called colluvium. With geologists becoming more interested in studying the near-surface environment and its related processes, the term head is becoming obsolete.\n\nA related term is 'combe (or coombe) rock', descriptive of a body of chalk and flint fragments contained within a mass of chalky earth typically found on the chalk downlands of south-east England and resulting from freeze-thaw processes. Where the mass is also soliflucted, it is considered a variety of head.\n"}
{"id": "38786381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38786381", "title": "Hellenoturkism", "text": "Hellenoturkism\n\nHellenoturkism is a political concept that encompasses two things: a) a fact of civilization i.e. the co-habitation and interdependence, since the 11th century A.D., of the Greek and Turkish peoples and cultures and b) a political ideology based on the above civilizational phenomenon, which aims at establishing a Greek-Turkish political ensemble.\n\nFrom the time of the Persian Empire and Alexander the Great, to the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in the 20th century A.D., the Intermediate Region has been covered by an ecumenical empire that had common civilizational characteristics, despite the fact that it passed into the hands successively of the Persians, to the Greeks, to the Romans, to the Byzantines and, finally, to the Ottomans. This central civilization of the Intermediate Region, existing since the time of Cyrus the Great, bore the characteristics, since the 11th century A.D. and for the last thousand years, of Greek and Turkish cultures. The Ecumenicity of the Empire was Hellenoturkism.\n\nIn the 15th century, a Greek philosopher, George of Trebizond, 1395-1484 (the date of his death varies from 1472 to 1486 depending on the sources), who aimed at synthesizing Turkish Islam in the form of Bektashism and Christianity in the form of Greek Orthodoxy, is considered by supporters of Hellenoturkism as the founder of their ideology. He addressed the new ruler of the Empire, Mehmed the Conqueror, in a letter of 1466, as the legal emperor of the Romans and of the whole Universe and also as the common emperor of both Greeks and Turks.\n\nIn the 19th century, after the founding of the Kingdom of Greece in 1832, the majority of the Greek population remained in the Ottoman Empire and were divided between two trends: the nationalists of the so-called Western Party and the federalists of the so-called Eastern Party. The latter wanted to stay in the Empire and transform it into a purely Greek-Turkish Empire. The two trends also developed in the State of Greece with the most vocal defender of a Greek-Turkish common State being the member of Parliament of Greece, in 1864, Georgios Typaldos-Iakovatos.\n\nIn the 20th century, the ideology of Hellenoturkism was revived by the historian Dimitri Kitsikis who since 1966, in his numerous books, articles and conference papers, as well as with his political activity in both Greece and Turkey, as adviser of Greek President Konstantinos Karamanlis the Elder and Turkish President Turgut Özal, has striven to establish the basis of a Turkish-Greek Confederation.\n\nEleftherios Venizelos on the 10th of May 1933, in a meeting of the Committee of the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, declared and repeated three times the following: \"One day will come when we will create with Turkey an Eastern Federation\". Venizelos' close collaborator, Leon Makkas, in his Souvenirs, referring to his meetings with the founder of Turkey, Kemal Atatürk, wrote: \"Kemal was the apostle of a large Greco-Turkish Empire in the East, a double-headed Empire, with two administrative capitals and one spiritual capital, the Augustian city which was successively called Byzantium, Constantinople, Istanbul and which will always remain, by its very geographical position, the Queen City of a whole Eastern world. I did not anymore have in front me the Peter the Great of Turkey, but rather a Victor Hugo chanting his \"Orientales\"\".\n\nA bilingual \"Greek Turkish Confederation\" (\"East Mediterranean Confederation\") between Greece, Turkey and Cyprus (with national capitals in Athens, Ankara and Nicosia, and Confederation parliament in Istanbul) would (to an extent) be a reincarnation of the Byzantine/Ottoman Empires; thus filling the political, cultural and economic vacuum that's left behind by the absence of these two historic superpowers in the East Mediterranean region. It would have the largest economy and military in the area covering the Balkans, the Middle East, the East Mediterranean, the Caucasus and Central Asia, and become one of the key global great powers due to its geographic location. During the 2010-2015 Greek financial crisis, the Greek-Turkish Confederation idea was brought back with renewed insistence in Turkey as well as in Greece\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1335032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1335032", "title": "Inconnu Independent Art Group", "text": "Inconnu Independent Art Group\n\nInconnu Art Group (later the Inconnu Independent Art Group) is the name of a Hungarian group of maverick fine artists from the communist and postcommunist eras. The original members were Bokros Péter, Molnár Tamás, Csécsei Mihály, Mészáros Bánk, Letenyei József, Sipos Mihály, Kopács Kovács Miklós, and Morva Ibolya. The foundation date of the group is unknown, but as Péter Bokros remembers (in 2005), they started their common activities in 1978, Cegléd, but the name \"inconnu\" came later.\n\nThey took part in (often illegal) exhibitions and performances in the eighties; and were considered as an important part of the Hungarian democratic opposition both in Hungary and in abroad. From 1979 they were subject to serious manhunt by the Hungarian authorities, and they were continuously followed and eyed by secret agents. \n\nAfter 1994 some members became active again and continued – in their words – their \"anti-communist\" drive, now against the (post-communist socialist) governments (led by Hungarian Socialist Party, MSzP). Other members created independent art and to explore the \"rubberized horror of global powers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48294", "title": "International auxiliary language", "text": "International auxiliary language\n\nAn international auxiliary language (sometimes abbreviated as IAL or auxlang) or interlanguage is a language meant for communication between people from different nations who do not share a common first language. An auxiliary language is primarily a foreign language.\n\nLanguages of dominant societies over the centuries have served as lingua francas that sometimes approaches the international level. Latin, Greek and the Mediterranean Lingua Franca were used in the past, and (Standard) Arabic, Standard Chinese, English, French, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish have been used as such in recent times in many parts of the world.\n\nHowever, as lingua francas are traditionally associated with the very dominance—cultural, political, and economic—that made them popular, they are often also met with resistance. For this and other reasons, some have turned to the idea of promoting an artificial or constructed language as a possible solution, by way of \"auxiliary\" language. The term \"auxiliary\" implies that it is intended to be an additional language for the people of the world, rather than to replace their native languages. Often, the term is used to refer to planned or constructed languages proposed specifically to ease international communication, such as Esperanto, Ido and Interlingua. However, it can also refer to the concept of such a language being determined by international consensus, including even a standardized natural language (e.g., International English), and has also been connected to the project of constructing a universal language.\n\nThe use of an intermediary auxiliary language (also called a \"working language\", \"bridge language\", \"vehicular language\" or \"unifying language\") to make communication possible between people not sharing a first language, in particular when it is a third language, distinct from both mother tongues, may be almost as old as language itself. Certainly they have existed since antiquity. Latin and Greek (or Koiné Greek) were the intermediary language of all areas of the Mediterraneum; Akkadian, and then Aramaic, remained the common languages of a large part of Western Asia through several earlier empires. Such natural languages used for communication between people not sharing the same mother tongue are called \"lingua francas\".\n\n\"Lingua francas\" have arisen around the globe throughout human history, sometimes for commercial reasons (so-called \"trade languages\") but also for diplomatic and administrative convenience, and as a means of exchanging information between scientists and other scholars of different nationalities. The term originates with one such language, Mediterranean Lingua Franca, a pidgin language used as a trade language in the Mediterranean area from the 11th to the 19th century. Examples of lingua francas remain numerous, and exist on every continent. The most obvious example as of the early 21st century is English. There are many other lingua francas centralized on particular regions, such as Arabic, Chinese, French, Greek, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.\n\nSince all natural languages display a number of irregularities in grammar which makes them more difficult to learn, and they are also associated with the national and cultural dominance of the nation that speaks it as its mother tongue, attention began to focus on the idea of creating an artificial or constructed language as a possible solution. The concept of simplifying an existing language to make it an auxiliary language was already in the \"Encyclopédie\" of the 18th century, where Joachim Faiguet de Villeneuve, in the article on \"Langue\", wrote a short proposition of a \"laconic\" or regularized grammar of French.\n\nSome of the philosophical languages of the 17th–18th centuries could be regarded as proto-auxlangs, as they were intended by their creators to serve as bridges among people of different languages as well as to disambiguate and clarify thought. However, most or all of these languages were, as far as can be told from the surviving publications about them, too incomplete and unfinished to serve as auxlangs (or for any other practical purpose). The first fully developed constructed languages we know of, as well as the first constructed languages devised primarily as auxlangs, originated in the 19th century; Solresol by François Sudre (1787–1862), a language based on musical notes, was the first to gain widespread attention although not, apparently, fluent speakers.\n\nDuring the 19th century, a bewildering variety of such constructed international auxiliary languages (IALs) were proposed, so Louis Couturat and Léopold Leau in \"Histoire de la langue universelle\" (1903) reviewed 38 projects.\n\nVolapük, first described in an article in 1879 by Johann Martin Schleyer and in book form the following year, was the first to garner a widespread international speaker community. Three major Volapük conventions were held, in 1884, 1887, and 1889; the last of them used Volapük as its working language. André Cherpillod writes of the third Volapük convention,\nHowever, not long after, the Volapük speaker community broke up due to various factors including controversies between Schleyer and other prominent Volapük speakers, and the appearance of newer, easier-to-learn constructed languages, primarily Esperanto.\n\nAnswering the needs of the first successful artificial language community, the Volapükists established the regulatory body of their language, under the name International Volapük Academy (\"Kadem bevünetik volapüka\") at the second Volapük congress in Munich in August 1887. The Academy was set up to conserve and perfect the auxiliary language Volapük, but soon conflicts arose between conservative Volapükists and those who wanted to reform Volapük to make it a more naturalistic language based on the grammar and vocabulary of major world languages. In 1890 Schleyer himself left the original Academy and created a new Volapük Academy with the same name, from people completely loyal to him, which continues to this day.\n\nUnder Waldemar Rosenberger, who became the director in 1892, the original Academy began to make considerable changes in the grammar and vocabulary of Volapük. The vocabulary and the grammatical forms unfamiliar to Western Europeans were completely discarded, so that the changes effectively resulted in the creation of a new language, which was named \"Idiom Neutral\". The name of the Academy was changed to \"Akademi Internasional de Lingu Universal\" in 1898 and the circulars of the Academy were written in the new language from that year.\n\nIn 1903, the mathematician Giuseppe Peano published his completely new approach to language construction. Inspired by the idea of philosopher Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, instead of inventing schematic structures and \"a priori\" language, he chose to simplify an existing and once widely used international language, Latin. This simplified Latin, devoid of inflections and declensions, was named \"Interlingua\" by Peano but is usually referred to as \"Latino sine flexione\".\n\nImpressed by Peano's Interlingua, the \"Akademi Internasional de Lingu Universal\" effectively chose to abandon Idiom Neutral in favor of Peano's Interlingua in 1908, and it elected Peano as its director. The name of the group then was changed to \"Academia pro Interlingua\" (where \"Interlingua\" stands for Peano's language). The \"Academia pro Interlingua\" survived until about 1939. It was partly Peano's Interlingua that inspired the better-known Interlingua presented in 1951 by the International Auxiliary Language Association (IALA).\n\nAfter the emergence of Volapük, a wide variety of other auxiliary languages were devised and proposed in the 1880s–1900s, but none except Esperanto gathered a significant speaker community. Esperanto was developed from about 1873–1887 (a first version was ready in 1878), and finally published in 1887, by L. L. Zamenhof, as a primarily schematic language; the word stems are borrowed from Romance, West Germanic and Slavic languages. The key to the relative success of Esperanto was probably the highly productive and elastic system of derivational word formation which allowed speakers to derive hundreds of other words by learning one word root. Moreover, Esperanto is quicker to learn than other languages, usually in a third up to a fifth of the time. From early on, Esperantists created their own culture which helped to form the Esperanto language community.\n\nWithin a few years this language had thousands of fluent speakers, primarily in eastern Europe. In 1905 its first world convention was held in Boulogne-sur-Mer. Since then world congresses have been held in different countries every year, except during the two World Wars. Esperanto has become \"the most outlandishly successful invented language ever\" and the most widely spoken constructed international auxiliary language. Esperanto is probably between the fifty languages which are most used internationally.\n\nIn 1922 a proposal by Iran and several other countries in the League of Nations to have Esperanto taught in member nations' schools failed. Esperanto speakers were subject to persecution under Stalin's regime. In Germany under Hitler, in Spain under Franco for about a decade, in Portugal under Salazar, in Romania under Ceaucescu, and in half a dozen Eastern European countries during the late forties and part of the fifties, Esperanto activities and the formation of Esperanto associations were forbidden. In spite of these factors more people continued to learn Esperanto, and significant literary work (both poetry and novels) appeared in Esperanto in the period between the World Wars and after them. Esperanto is spoken today in a growing number of countries and it has multiple generations of native speakers, although it is primarily used as a second language. Of the various constructed language projects, it is Esperanto that has so far come closest to becoming an officially recognized international auxiliary language; China publishes daily news in Esperanto.\n\nThe Delegation for the Adoption of an International Auxiliary Language was founded in 1900 by Louis Couturat and others; it tried to get the International Association of Academies to take up the question of an international auxiliary language, study the existing ones and pick one or design a new one. However, the meta-academy declining to do so, the Delegation decided to do the job itself. Among Esperanto speakers there was a general impression that the Delegation would of course choose Esperanto, as it was the only auxlang with a sizable speaker community at the time; it was felt as a betrayal by many Esperanto speakers when in 1907 the Delegation came up with its own reformed version of Esperanto, Ido. Ido drew a significant number of speakers away from Esperanto in the short term, but in the longer term most of these either returned to Esperanto or moved on to other new auxlangs. Besides Ido, a great number of simplified Esperantos, called Esperantidos, emerged as concurrent language projects; still, Ido remains today one of the three most widely spoken auxlangs.\n\nEdgar von Wahl's Occidental (also called \"Interlingue\") of 1922 was in reaction against the perceived artificiality of some earlier auxlangs, particularly Esperanto. Inspired by Idiom Neutral and Peano's Interlingua, von Wahl created a language whose words, including compound words, would have a high degree of recognizability for those who already know a Romance language. However, this design criterion was in conflict with the ease of coining new compound or derived words on the fly while speaking. Occidental gained a small speaker community in the 1920s and 1930s, and supported several publications, but had almost entirely died out by the 1980s. More recently Occidental has been revived on the Internet.\n\nIn 1928 Ido's major intellectual supporter, the Danish linguist Otto Jespersen, abandoned Ido, and published his own planned language, Novial. It was mostly inspired by Idiom Neutral and Occidental, yet it attempted a derivational formalism and schematism sought by Esperanto and Ido. The notability of its creator helped the growth of this auxiliary language, but soon both Novial and Occidental were abandoned in favour of Interlingua, the first auxiliary language based fully on scientific methodology.\n\nThe International Auxiliary Language Association (IALA) was founded in 1924 by Alice Vanderbilt Morris; like the earlier \"Delegation for the Adoption of an International Auxiliary Language\", its mission was to study language problems and the existing auxlangs and proposals for auxlangs, and to negotiate some consensus between the supporters of various auxlangs. However, like the Delegation, it finally decided to create its own auxlang. Interlingua, published in 1951, was primarily the work of Alexander Gode, though he built on preliminary work by earlier IALA linguists including André Martinet, and relied on elements from previous naturalistic auxlang projects, like Peano's Interlingua (Latino sine flexione), Jespersen's Novial, von Walh's Occidental (Interlingue), and the Academy's Idiom Neutral. Like Occidental, Interlingua was designed to have words recognizable at sight by those who already know a Romance language or a language like English with much vocabulary borrowed from Romance languages; to attain this end the IALA accepted a degree of grammatical and orthographic complexity considerably greater than in Esperanto or Occidental, though still less than in any natural language.\n\nThe theory underlying Interlingua posits an \"international vocabulary\", a large number of words and affixes that are present in a wide range of languages. This already existing international vocabulary was shaped by social forces, science and technology, to \"all corners of the world\". The goal of the International Auxiliary Language Association was to accept into Interlingua every widely international word in whatever languages it occurred. They conducted studies to identify \"the most generally international vocabulary possible\", while still maintaining the unity of the language. This scientific approach of generating a language from selected source languages (called \"control languages\") resulted in a vocabulary and grammar that can be called the highest common factor of each major European language.\n\nInterlingua gained a significant speaker community, perhaps roughly the same size as that of Ido (considerably less than the size of Esperanto). Interlingua's success can be explained by the fact that it is the most widely \"understood\" international auxiliary language by virtue of its naturalistic (as opposed to schematic) grammar and vocabulary, allowing those familiar with a Romance language, and educated speakers of English, to read and understand it without prior study. Interlingua has some active speakers currently on all continents, and the language is propagated by the Union Mundial pro Interlingua (UMI), and Interlingua is presented on CDs, radio, and television.\n\nAfter the creation of Interlingua, there were no more successful attempts in international language engineering that would attract a significant number of supporters, thus the enthusiasm about constructed languages gradually decreased in the years between 1960–1990.\n\nAll of the auxlangs with a surviving speaker community seem to have benefited from the advent of the Internet, Esperanto more than most. The CONLANG mailing list was founded in 1991; in its early years discussion focused on international auxiliary languages. As people interested in artistic languages and engineered languages grew to be the majority of the list members, and flame-wars between proponents of particular auxlangs irritated these members, a separate AUXLANG mailing list was created in 1997, which has been the primary venue for discussion of auxlangs since then. Besides giving the existing auxlangs with speaker communities a chance to interact rapidly online as well as slowly through postal mail or more rarely in personal meetings, the Internet has also made it easier to publicize new auxlang projects, and a handful of these have gained a small speaker community, including Kotava, Lingua Franca Nova, Lingwa de Planeta, Pandunia, Sambahsa, and Toki Pona.\n\nNot every international auxiliary language is necessarily intended to be used on a global scale. A special subgroup are languages created to facilitate communication between speakers of a certain group of related languages. The oldest known example is a Pan-Slavic language written in 1665 by the Croatian priest Juraj Križanić. He named this language Ruski (\"Russian\"), but in reality it was a mixture of the Russian edition of Church Slavonic, his own Southern Chakavian dialect of Serbo-Croatian, and, to a lesser degree, Polish.\n\nMost zonal constructed languages were created during the period of romantic nationalism at the end of the 19th century; some were created later. Particularly numerous are the Pan-Slavic languages. However, similar efforts have been made at creating umbrella languages for other language families as well: Tutonish (1902) and Folkspraak (1995) for the Germanic languages, Romanid (1956) for the Romance languages, and Afrihili (1973) for the African continent.\n\nNowadays, most older zonal constructed languages are known only to specialists. Most notable among modern examples is Interslavic, a project established in 2011 after the merger of several other projects. In 2012 it was reported to have several hundred users.\n\nIn the early 1900s auxlangs were already becoming a subject of academic study. Louis Couturat et al. described the controversy in the preface to their book \"International Language and Science\":\n\nLeopold Pfaundler wrote that an IAL was needed for more effective communication among scientists:\n\nFor Couturat et al., Volapukists and Esperantists confounded the linguistic aspect of the question with many side issues, and they considered this a main reason why discussion about the idea of an international auxiliary language has appeared unpractical.\n\nSome contemporaries of Couturat, notably Edward Sapir saw the challenge of an auxiliary language not as much as that of identifying a descriptive linguistic answer (of grammar and vocabulary) to global communicative concerns, but rather as one of promoting the notion of a linguistic platform for lasting international understanding. Though interest among scholars, and linguists in particular, waned greatly throughout the 20th century, such differences of approach persist today. Some scholars and interested laymen make concrete language proposals. By contrast, Pei and others place the broader societal issue first. Yet others argue in favor of a particular language while seeking to establish its social integration.\n\nSeveral IAL use the Latin script, some of them like LFN also offer an alternative in the Cyrillic script.\n\nThe vast majority of IALs use the Latin script. Several sounds, e.g. /n/, /m/, /t/, /f/ are written with the same letter as in IPA.\n\nSome consonant sounds found in several Latin-script IAL alphabets are not represented by an ISO 646 letter in IPA. Three have a single letter in IPA, one has a widespread alternative taken from ISO 646:\nFour are affricates, each represented in IPA by two letters and a combining marker. They are often written decomposed:\n\nThat means that two sounds that are one character in IPA and are not ISO 646, also have no common alternative in ISO 646: ʃ, ʒ.\n\nThe following classification of auxiliary languages was developed by Pierre Janton in 1993:\n\n\nSome examples of the best known international auxiliary languages are shown below for comparative purposes. As a reference for comparison, you can find the English and Latin versions of the Lord's Prayer (a text which is regularly used for linguistic comparisons) here:\n\nAs has been pointed out, the issue of an international language is not so much which, but how. Several approaches exist toward the eventual full expansion and consolidation of an international auxiliary language.\n\nThere have been a number of proposals for using pictures, ideograms, diagrams, and other pictorial representations for international communications. Examples range from the original Characteristica Universalis proposed by the philosopher Leibniz, to suggestions for the adoption of Chinese writing, to recent inventions such as Blissymbol.\n\nWithin the scientific community, there is already considerable agreement in the form of the schematics used to represent electronic circuits, chemical symbols, mathematical symbols, and the Energy Systems Language of systems ecology. We can also see the international efforts at regularizing symbols used to regulate traffic, to indicate resources for tourists, and in maps. Some symbols have become nearly universal through their consistent use in computers and on the internet.\n\nAn international auxiliary sign language has been developed by deaf people who meet regularly at international forums such as sporting events or in political organisations. Previously referred to as Gestuno but now more commonly known simply as 'international sign', the language has continued to develop since the first signs were standardised in 1973, and it is now in widespread use. International sign is distinct in many ways from spoken IALs; many signs are iconic and signers tend to insert these signs into the grammar of their own sign language, with an emphasis on visually intuitive gestures and mime. A simple sign language called Plains Indian Sign Language was used by indigenous peoples of the Americas.\n\nGestuno is not to be confused with the separate and unrelated sign language Signuno, which is essentially a Signed Exact Esperanto. Signuno is not in any significant use, and is based on the Esperanto community rather than based on the international Deaf community.\n\nThere has been considerable criticism of international auxiliary languages, both in terms of individual proposals, types of proposals, and in more general terms.\n\nCriticisms directed against Esperanto and other early auxiliary languages in the late 19th century included the idea that different races have sufficiently different speech organs that an international language might work locally in Europe, but hardly worldwide, and the prediction that if adopted, such an auxlang would rapidly break up into local dialects. Advances in linguistics have done away with the first of these, and the limited but significant use of Esperanto, Ido and Interlingua on an international scale, without breakup into unintelligible dialects, has shown that either a rapid break-up into dialects shall not happen too soon in the future, or that there is enough constant 'standardisation' to reduce the diversity of the language. Subsequently, much criticism has been focused either on the artificiality of these auxlangs, or on the argumentativeness of auxlang proponents and their failure to agree on one auxlang, or even on objective criteria by which to judge auxlangs. However, probably the most common criticism is that a constructed auxlang is unnecessary because natural languages such as English are already in wide use as auxlangs and work well enough for that purpose.\n\nOne criticism already prevalent in the late 19th century, and still sometimes heard today, is that an international language might hasten the extinction of minority languages. One response has been that, even if this happens, the benefits would outweigh the costs;. Another response has been that proponents of auxlangs, particularly in the Esperanto movement, are often thought to also be proponents of measures to conserve and promote minority languages and cultures. Based on Baha'i writ, Meyjes (2006) sees an International Auxiliary Language intended to be implemented in ways that shield native tongues from undue pressures from any traditional lingua franca, while enabling inter-community communication worldwide \n\nAlthough referred to as \"international\" languages, most of these languages have historically been constructed on the basis of Western European languages. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries it was common for Volapük and Esperanto, and to some extent Ido, to be criticized for not being Western European enough; Occidental and Interlingua were (among other things) responses to this kind of criticism. More recently all these major auxlangs have been criticized for being too European and not global enough. One response to this criticism has been that doing otherwise in no way makes the language easier for anyone, while drawing away from the sources of much international vocabulary, technical and popular. Another response, primarily from Esperanto speakers, is that the internationality of a language has more to do with the culture of its speakers than with its linguistic properties. Esperanto itself uses individual words from Indo-European languages, but its grammar is much more similar to Chinese and Greek, (while being flexible enough in grammar and sentence structure to be able to copy the word-order of Japanese, Indonesian and English all about as well as each other) so it's difficult to judge how much of an Indo-European language it even is. The term \"Euroclone\" was coined to refer to these languages in contrast to \"worldlangs\" with global vocabulary sources; the term is sometimes applied only to self-proclaimed \"naturalistic\" auxlangs such as Occidental and Interlingua, sometimes to all auxlangs with primarily European vocabulary sources, regardless of their grammar, including Esperanto and Lingua Franca Nova.\n\nThe response to this argument was made by Alexander Gode and reiterated by Mario Pei: A vocabulary selected from a broad variety of languages does not make the language any easier for speakers of any one language. Gode's example compares a paragraph in Interlingua with a paragraph with words from Chinese, Japanese, Malay, and other non-European languages. The first, he argues, should be understood by those familiar with the Romance languages, and not overly difficult for most English speakers:\n\nThe second, in contrast, should not only be difficult for speakers of European languages, but Malay speakers likely will not understand the Chinese words, Chinese speakers will likely not understand the Japanese words, and Japanese speakers likely will not understand the Malay words:\n\nAn \"a priori\" vocabulary such as that of Spokil or Kotava, or a vocabulary constructed mathematically, such as that of Loglan or Lojban, would likely be as comprehensible.\n\nGode argues, additionally, that the western languages are the unofficial languages of international science, medicine, and technology, and therefore an IAL based on them provides the best access to that literature. Nevertheless, it must be said that a more neutral vocabulary, perhaps even an \"a priori\" one, would be less offensive to some non-Europeans.\n\nIn the 1990s and early 2000s, many proposals for auxlangs based on global sources of vocabulary and grammar have been made, but most (like the majority of the European-based auxlangs of earlier decades) remain sketches too incomplete to be speakable, and of the more complete ones, few have gained any speakers. More recently there has been a trend, on the AUXLANG mailing list and on the more recently founded worldlang mailing list, to greater collaboration between various proponents of a more globally based auxlang.\n\nSee List of constructed languages#Auxiliary languages for a list of designed international auxiliary languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1637863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1637863", "title": "Islamic sexual jurisprudence", "text": "Islamic sexual jurisprudence\n\nIslamic sexual jurisprudence concerns the Islamic laws of sexuality in Islam, as largely predicated on the Qur'an, the sayings of Muhammad (\"hadith\") and the rulings of religious leaders' (\"fatwa\") confining sexual activity to marital relationships between men and women. While most traditions discourage celibacy, all encourage strict chastity, modesty and privacy with regard to any relationships between genders, holding forth that their intimacy as perceived within Islamencompassing a swath of life broader than sexual activityis largely reserved for marriage. This sensitivity to gender difference and modesty outside of marriage can be seen in current prominent aspects of Islam, such as interpretations of Islamic dress and degrees of gender segregation.\n\nWhile prohibitions against extramarital sex are strong, sexual activity itself is not a taboo subject. Permissible sexual relationships are described in Quran and Hadith as great wells of love and closeness. Even after marriage, there are limitations: a man should not have intercourse during his wife's menstruation and afterbirth periods. He is also considered to be sinning when penetrating anally. Islam itself is a natalist religion, therefore it encourages increasing procreation through marital sexual relationships. Actions and behaviours such as abortion (other than for medical risk to the pregnant woman) and homosexuality are also strictly forbidden; temporary contraceptive use is permitted for birth control.\n\nMuslim men and women asked Muhammad about issues concerning sexual behavior, so as to know the teachings and rulings of their religion. Muslims could pose their questions either to Muhammad directly or to his wives. A hadith attributed to Muhammad's wife Aisha states that the Ansar women in particular were not shy about asking questions regarding sexual matters.\n\nParents are responsible for the upbringing of their children, and that responsibility includes protecting them from anything that may corrupt their morals. Early sex education for children is not recommended by Islamic scholars, as the knowledge contained in such curricula may be a negative influence on a young child's mind.\n\nAccording to Muhammad Al-Munajjid, young children should instead be taught Islamic rules involving covering the ‘awrah, controlling one's gaze, and asking permission before entering private spaces.\n\nMunajjid also suggested to separate the bed of children at the age of ten according to hadith:\nShaykh Muhammad Shams al-Haqq al-‘Azeemabaadi said:\n\nMunajjid stated, this \"advice and guidance\" from this verse has to do with protecting and concealing the ‘awrah and avoiding provocation of desire which begins, as we have seen, in the tenth year, which is the age at which most children reach discernment.\n\nWhen puberty approaches, children should be taught the signs of puberty and the characteristics which distinguish men from women, and the types of discharge that may be emitted from the front passage of both sexes. They should also be taught the rulings on wudoo’ and ghusl, paying attention to the phrases used in teaching and ensuring that it is taught according to what the child needs to know. Munajjid has maintained two as important matters which should begin at a very early age – around the age of three years – that have a basic connection to the issue of sex education. They are:\n\n\nFinally he stated, “With regard to the issue of sex education having to do with intercourse, or what happens between spouses in general, this should come when there is a need for it, such as when marriage is approaching, or when he is mature enough to understand some issues of fiqh, such as the rulings on zina (fornication or adultery) and the like, which have to do with intercourse and ‘awrahs. It should be noted that what is needed of that knowledge is basically something that is natural and instinctive in the first place, and what you need to point out must be taught to children gradually, in accordance with the stages of their development, by means of lessons of fiqh, study circles and classes in school. We should be conservative in the words and phrases we use, and attention must be paid to the appropriate ages and stages to discuss this topic. We must also warn against the promiscuous practices of the disbelievers and contrast them with the beauty of Islam, with regard to urging Muslims to cover up and be modest, and to guard their chastity and avoid that which is haraam.\"\n\n\"Khitan\" or \"Khatna\" (, ) is the term for male circumcision carried out as a cultural rite by Muslims and is considered a sign of belonging to the wider Islamic community. Whether or not it should be carried out after converting to Islam is debated among Islamic scholars.\n\nThe Qur'an itself does not mention circumcision explicitly in any verse. Some hadith mentions circumcision in a list of practices known as \"fitra\" (acts considered to be of a refined person). Abu Hurayra, a companion of Muhammad, was quoted saying, \nSo, despite its absence from the Qur'an, it has been a religious custom from the beginning of Islam. However, there are other \"hadiths\" which do not name circumcision as part of the characteristics of \"fitra\" and yet another \"hadith\" which names ten characteristics, again without naming circumcision; in Sahih Muslim, Aisha is quoted, Hence, the different hadiths do not correspond on whether circumcision is part of fitra or not. According to some traditions Muhammad was born without a foreskin (aposthetic), while others maintain that his grandfather Abdul-Muttalib circumcised him when he was seven days old. Many of his early disciples were circumcised to symbolize their inclusion within the emerging Islamic community. Amongst \"Ulema\" (Muslim legal scholars), there are differing opinions about the compulsion of circumcision in \"Sharia\" (Islamic law). Imams Abū Ḥanīfa, founder of the Hanafi school of \"Fiqh\" (Islamic jurisprudence), and Malik ibn Anas, maintain that circumcision is a \"Sunnah Mu'akkadah\"—not obligatory but highly recommended. The Shafi`i and Hanbali schools see it as binding on all Muslims. Islamic sources do not fix a particular time for circumcision. It depends on family, region and country. A majority of Ulema however take the view that parents should get their child circumcised before the age of ten. The preferred age is usually seven although some Muslims are circumcised as early as on the seventh day after birth and as late as at the commencement of puberty.\n\n\"Bāligh\" or \"bulūgh\" () refers to a person who has reached maturity or puberty, and has full responsibility under Islamic law.\n\nFor example, in issues pertaining to marriage, \"baligh\" is related to the Arabic legal expression, \"hatta tutiqa'l-rijal\", which means that a wedding may not take place until the girl is physically fit to engage in sexual intercourse. In comparison, \"baligh\" or \"balaghat\" concerns the reaching of sexual maturity which becomes manifest by the menses. The age related to these two concepts can, but need not necessarily, coincide. Only after a separate condition called \"rushd\", or intellectual maturity to handle one's own property, is reached can a girl receive her bridewealth.\n\nA boy may reach maturity from the age of 10 lunar years (nine years, eight months and twenty days) and will be considered mature at the age of 15 lunar years (14 years, 6 months and 22 days) if no signs of maturity are found. Signs of maturity for a boy include: wet dreams and ejaculation. A girl may reach maturity from the age of 9 lunar years (approximately eight years and eight months) and will be considered mature at the age of 15 lunar years (14 years, 6 months and 22 days) if no signs of maturity are found. Signs of maturity for a girl: menstruation, wet dream or pregnancy.\n\nIslam has strongly emphasized the concept of conservatism, decency and modesty; besides the lawful sexuality, priority is given to modesty and chastity both inside and outside the marital relationships. In the hadith literature, modesty has been described as \"a part of faith.\". \n\nModesty is verily required in the interaction between members of the opposite sex and in some case between the members of same sex also. Dress-code is part of that overall teaching. In Quran, the subjects deal with modesty and privacy of men and women has been mostly described in An-Nur. For example, it has been mentioned,\n\nHadith also describes the laws of modesty. Along with Quran it has also emphasized marriage as a requirement for modesty and chastity. For example,\n\nIt has been mentioned in Hadith ranging about men's and women's private parts that,\nRegarding women follows:\n\"Asma, daughter of Abu Bakr, entered upon the Apostle of Allah (peace_be_upon_him) wearing thin clothes. The Apostle of Allah (peace_be_upon_him) turned his attention from her. He said: O Asma’, when a woman reaches the age of menstruation, it does not suit her that she displays her parts of body except this and this, and he pointed to her face and hands.\" Abu Dawud\n\n\"After Muhammad issued the command (Quran 24:31) for women to cover themselves, the women responded by tearing up sheets [or outer garments] to cover their faces.\" Sahih Bukhari (60:282)\n\nRegarding men follows:\n\nIt is forbidden for both spouses to spread the secrets of what happens between them in their private marital life; indeed, this is one of the most evil things. Quran says,\n\nAnd also the Muhammad said: \n\nPrivacy between unmarried man and woman is not allowed following:\n\nThe following hadiths also commands maintaining basic privacy in societal gathering: \nIn another hadith it has been mentioned,\nThere is also prescription of modesty and privacy in case of unlawful sexual acts. It is mentioned in the hadith below from Muwatta Imam Malik:\n\nSome hadith warn against immodesty including as follows,\nMarriage (Nikah) is a contract between Muslim men and his wife. Marriage has been described in tradition (hadith) as half of the religion with the regards of preserving chastity.\n\nIn Islamic law, marriage legalizes sexual intercourse between the husband and wife. Marriage is not restricted to a platonic relationship nor is it only for procreation. Marriage is greatly encouraged in Islam, partially because it provides a lawful institution in which to fulfill one's sexual urges. Islam does provide extensive rules regarding sex; however, within the conditional institution of marriage, there are sources in both the Qur'an and hadith, which promote the well being of humans and their natural sexual instincts. In the Surah Baqarah, sex in married life is openly recommended: It has been also said: Additionally, sources of hadith illustrate similar promotion of fulfilling sexual urges in lawful ways within a marriage. The Wasaelush Shia quotes Muhammad as encouraging his followers to marry, saying: \n\nProphet Muhammad also declared marital sex as charity:\n\nOne of the areas of Islamic sexual jurisprudence in which there are not many restrictions is the discussion of sexual techniques. Almost all of what is practiced under Islamic law concerning sexual techniques and the act of sexual intercourse come from 'hadith\", which are not restrictive in nature, but followed by a mutual etiquette known as foreplay, as the hadith follows:\n\nThe main tendency within these \"hadith\" are saying for Muslims to follow in the bedroom, saying which \"clearly show that the husband and the wife should feel completely free when they are engaged in mutual stimulation which is known as foreplay. These sayings recommend foreplay and put no real restrictions on the type of techniques used during foreplay or during intercourse.\n\nAllah says in the Qur'an: \n\nIn the foregoing verse the word harth (tilth) indicates that any kind of vaginal sex is permissible in Islam, because it is from this place children are produced; and it is also regardless any of sexual positions, because although top to bottom position has been encouraged most, but none of the vaginal sexual positions has been mentioned as prohibited in scripture and tradition. The semen lodged in the womb from which offspring comes is likened to the seeds that are planted in the ground, bringing vegetation. Both of them are substances from which something else is produced. Hence, conversely, one area of sexual techniques that is generally prohibited is anal intercourse.\n\nAll Muslim jurists agree that anal sex is haram (prohibited), based on the hadith of Muhammad: \n\nFurther, it is reported that Muhammad referred to such an act as \"minor sodomy\". (Reported by Ahmad and An-Nasa'i)\n\nIn Islam, the husband should have intercourse with his wife according to what satisfies her, so long as that does not harm him physically or keep him from earning a living. The husband is obliged to treat his wife in a kind and reasonable manner. Part of that kind and reasonable treatment is intercourse, which he has to do. The majority of scholars set the time limit beyond which it is not permissible for the husband to forego intercourse at four months, but according to some scholars, the view is that there is no time limit.\n\nMost of the scholars have said that, It is obligatory on women alike not to refuse their husbands if they call them, so long as the woman who is called is not menstruating or sick in such a way that intercourse will be harmful to her, or observing an obligatory fast. If she refuses with no excuse, then she is cursed.\n\nBut it is not permissible for a husband to force his wife to do more than she is able to bear of intercourse. If she has an excuse such as being sick or unable to bear it, then she is not sinning if she refuses to have intercourse.\n\nIn Islamic jurisprudence, the primary purpose of sex between marriage is procreation. Islam recognizes the strong sexual urge and desire for reproduction. Dr. M.A. Rauf from his book 'Marriage in Islam'. In this excerpt, he discusses in great detail the advantages and possible disadvantages of marriage. Among the advantages that he discusses are procreation, fulfilment of the natural urge, companionship, comfort and relief to the soul, and so on. He also discusses the disadvantages and the types of burdens and risks involved with marriage. All of the advantages or benefits are in effect meant to be regarded as the secondary purpose of marriage which supplement its major aim or purpose, namely procreation. To beget children. This is the main purpose for marriage. The aim is to engender and preserve the human race. Four objectives are accomplished through procreation: - (i) to increase mankind (ii) Islam is propagated by increasing the number of followers of the prophet Muhammad (iii)parents will hope to leave behind children who will pray for them (iv) and According to Islamic belief, if a child dies before the parents, the prayers of the child in paradise will be very beneficial for the parents. The children born of the matrimonial union become legitimate and mutual rights of inheritance are established. Islam also supposts a pro-natalist view of procreation through many hadith.\n\nThis hadeeth indicates that it is encouraged to marry women who are fertile, so that the numbers of the ummah will increase, and so the Prophet Muhammad will feel proud of his followers before all other nations. This shows that it is encouraged to have a lot of children.\n\nJust as Islamic law fosters sexual actions within a marriage or lawful concubinage with wholly owned female slaves, there is also judicial opinion concerning sexual relations outside of these institutions. These laws, however, observe much stricter restrictions. Additionally, these laws have textual confirmation from the Qur'an.\nVerse 24:2-3 states that outside marriage and concubinage, Islamic law prohibits sexual relations as \"zina\" [fornication]. Verse 24:2-3 establishes that male and female fornicators are to be flogged one-hundred times. According to Hadith, married male and female fornicators are to be stoned to death.\n\nFurthermore, one practice outside marriage that does exist within Islamic law is legal sexual relations between a man and an unmarried female slave whom he owns. Malik ibn Anas cites a report in which \"Umar b. al-Khattab says that when a female slave gives birth to a child by her master, then the slave becomes an \"umm walad\" (mother of a child, concubine).\"\n\nSimilar to laws that prohibit extramarital sexual relations, the Qur'an also stipulates categories of women with whom men are prohibited from engaging in sexual intercourse. Verse 4:22-4 lists mothers, daughters, sisters, aunts, nieces, wet nurses, wet nurses' daughters, wives' mothers, daughters of wives from different fathers, wives of sons, and women already married.\n\nAdditionally, Verse 2:222 prohibits sexual relations with women during menstruation. Muhammad specifically restricts the injunction \"to segregate the women\" and \"not go near them\" in 2:222 to a prohibition against sexual relations with menstruating women.\n\nPornography is considered haram and a clear sin.\n\nThe Quran states: \nProstitution is banned in Islam. Quran states,\n\nProstitution (trading sex for money) is haraam. If any does this then he shall be stoned to death. It was practiced by some Arabs during the 6th century. In the 7th century, Muhammad declared that prostitution is forbidden on all grounds.\n\nNarrated Abdullah ibn Abbas:\nIn Islam, prostitution is considered a sin, and Abu Mas'ud Al-Ansari is attributed with the saying: \n\nNarrated 'Urwa bin Az-Zubair:\nHowever, sexual slavery as concubinage was not considered prostitution and was very common during the Arab slave trade throughout the Middle Ages and early modern period, when women and girls from the Caucasus, Africa, Central Asia and Europe were captured and served as concubines in the harems of the Arab World. Ibn Battuta tells us several times that he was given or purchased female slaves.\n\nAccording to Shia Muslims, Muhammad sanctioned fixed-term marriage – muta'a in Iraq and sigheh in Iran — which has instead been used as a legitimizing cover for sex workers, in a culture where prostitution is otherwise forbidden.\n\nBy contrast, in the Sahih al-Bukhari, Mut'ah marriage is classed as forbidden because Ali bin Abu Talib said that he heard Muhammad say that it is forbidden. \nAs narrated by 'Ali bin Abu Talib: \nZaidi Shia texts also state that Ali said Mut'ah marriage was forbidden and for this reason the Zaidi Shia do not practise Mut'ah marriage.\n\nThe Qur'an strictly prohibits homosexuality through the story of Lot (see verses 7:80-84, 26:165-166, 11:69-83, 29:28-35 of the Qur'an; which is also rendered in the Biblical Book of Genesis), in Al-Nisa, Al-Araf and possibly verses in other surahs. For example, this was the verse addressed directly to Muhammad and his followers:\nIn another verse, it has been also pointed out,\n\nThe Hadiths consider homosexuality as zina, and male homosexuals to be punished with death. For example, Abu Dawud states,\n\nAll major Islamic schools disapprove of homosexuality, Islam views same-sex desires as an unnatural temptation; and, sexual relations are seen as a transgression of the natural role and aim of sexual activity. Islamic teachings (in the \"hadith\" tradition) presume same-sex attraction, extol abstention and (in the Qur'an) condemn consummation.\n\nMost of the jurists believe there should be severe punishments according to the above Quranic and prophetic orders, such as death or floggings, while some others disagree. Early caliphs were known to have had both of the male partners executed in various ways. Some other jurists believe that there is no punishment that will serve as an effective purgative for this act, and therefore its immorality precludes an earthly punishment. Some jurists are so morally offended by homosexuality that just the discussion around it is cause for excommunication and anathematizing.\n\nIslamic law establishes two categories of legal, sexual relationships: between husband and wife and between a man and his concubine. All other sexual relationships, according to Islamic law and exegesis of the Qur'an, are considered zinā (fornication), including adultery and homosexuality.\n\nThe discourse on homosexuality in Islam is primarily concerned with activities between men. There are, however, a few hadith mentioning homosexual behavior in women; the jurists are agreed that \"there is no hadd punishment for lesbianism, because it is not zina. Rather a ta’zeer punishment must be imposed, because it is a sin..'\". Although punishment for lesbianism is rarely mentioned in the histories, al-Tabari records an example of the casual execution of a pair of lesbian slavegirls in the harem of al-Hadi, in a collection of highly critical anecdotes pertaining to that Caliph's actions as ruler. Some jurists viewed sexual intercourse as possible only for an individual who possesses a phallus; hence those definitions of sexual intercourse that rely on the entry of as little of the corona of the phallus into a partner's orifice. Since women do not possess a phallus and cannot have intercourse with one another, they are, in this interpretation, physically incapable of committing zinā.\n\nMukhannathun (مخنثون \"effeminate ones\", \"men who resemble women\", singular mukhannath) were men who acted in ways interpreted as feminine. As time went on, the \"mukhannathun\" were forced to be castrated. There has been significant mention of \"mukhannathun\" in ahadith and by scholars of Islam. The word refers to a person who behaves like a woman in gentleness, speech, appearance, movements and so on. The mukhannath or effeminate man is one who is obviously male, unlike the khuntha (intersex). Effeminate people are of two types.\n(i)Those who are created that way (intersex); there is no sin on them.\n(ii)Those who were not created that way; rather they choose to imitate women in their movements and speech. This is the type which is cursed in the hadiths.\nThe following tradition speaks to the their behavior:\n\nSex change operation means that healthy males or females suffering from no deformity, who are able to marry and reproduce, choose to undergo elective surgery to transform themselves into the appearance of the opposite sex. This kind of surgery is prohibited by Islamic Law because it is altering Allah’s creation needlessly and in vanity. Allah relates that Satan says: \nMuhammad also said regarding people \"imitating\" (i.e. transgender) the opposite sex:\n\nAn intersex person may have sex characteristics or organs that are not typically male or female. This person is called a \"Khunthaa\" in the books of Fiqh. There are three types of Khunthaa:\n\n1. A person has aspects of both organs, and urinates from the male organ. This person will be included among the males and the laws regarding males will fall on him.\n\n2. The person urinates from the female organ so will be included among the females. The laws related to females will fall on this person. This applies before the person reaches maturity. After maturity, the person will be rechecked. If he experiences wet dreams like a male then he will be counted as a male. On the other hand, if the person develops breasts and other signs of being feminine the she will be included among the females.\n\n3. When both masculine and feminine signs are equal and it cannot be determined whether the person is more male or more female then such a person is termed Khunthaa Mushkil. There are different laws regarding such a person, a few examples: It is not permissible for a Khunthaa Mushkil to wear silk and jewellery. Both these are permissible for females. But because this person’s condition cannot be ascertained, so precaution demands that such a person not wear silk and jewellery, because of the possibility that the person may be more male. Such a person cannot travel without a Mahram because of the possibility of being more female. When this person dies, Ghusl will not be given because the question arises that who will render the Ghusl, male or female. The law is that this person will be given Tayammum. If a Ghayr Mahram is rendering the Tayammum then the person has to wear a cloth over the hands. A Mahram does not have to wear a cloth over the hands.\n\nWith regard to marriage of one who is intersex, if it is an unambiguous case, then according to how he or she is classified, he or she may marry someone of the opposite gender. If it is an ambiguous case, then the marriage of such a person cannot be valid, the reason being that he may be male, in which case how can he marry another male, or may be female, in which case she can't marry another female like her. If this individual is sexually attracted to females and claims to be a man, this is a sign that he is most likely male, and vice versa.\n\nIntersex medical interventions are considered permissible to achieve agreement between a person’s exterior, chromosomal make-up or sex organs. They are regarded as treatment and not the altering of Allah’s creation or imitation of the opposite sex.\n\nConcubinage was a relationship between a man and an unmarried female slave whom he owns; the term refers to the status of the female. If she gives birth to a child by her master, the slave becomes \"umm walad\" (\"mother of child\", \"concubine\"). The Hanbali jurist Ibn Qudama explains that the father is not allowed to sell or transfer ownership of his concubine, though he is entitled to have sexual relations with her, to employ her service, to hire her out and to marry her. Ibn al-Humam adds that the slave-owner must acknowledge the kinship of the child.\n\n\"Concubine\" (\"surriyya\") refers to the female slave (\"jāriya\"), whether Muslim or non-Muslim, with whom her master engages in sexual intercourse. The word \"surriyya\" is not mentioned in the Qur'an. However, the expression \"Ma malakat aymanukum\" (that which your right hands own), which occurs fifteen times in the sacred book, refers to slaves and therefore, though not necessarily, to concubines. Concubinage was a pre-Islamic custom that was allowed to be practiced under Islam with Jews and non-Muslim people to marry concubine after teaching her and instructing her well and then giving them freedom.\n\nIslamic jurisprudence sets limits on the master's right to sexual intercourse with his female slave. A man's ownership of his unmarried slave-girl gave him an exclusive right to have sex with her that he could not sell to others (in order to prevent prostitution of slaves). A man could own a limitless number of concubines, but could not have access to the slave-girls owned by his wife. Marriage between the master and his concubine was only possible if she was granted free status first. To avoid pregnancies, the master had the right to practice coitus interruptus. The birth of progeny would change the legal status of the concubine to that of \"umm al-walad\" (\"mother of the child\"); as such, the concubine could not then be sold. On the (lawful) death of her master, she would automatically acquire free status and her children would be considered free and legitimate.\n\nSurah Al-Muminun (23:6) and Surah Al-Maarij (70:30) both, in identical wording, draw a distinction between spouses and \"those whom one's right hands possess\" (female slaves), saying \" أَزْوَاجِهِمْ أَوْ مَا مَلَكَتْ أَيْمَانُهُمْ\" (literally, \"their spouses or what their right hands possess\"), while clarifying that sexual intercourse with either is permissible. The purchase of female slaves for sex was lawful from the perspective of Islamic law, and this was the most common motive for the purchase of slaves throughout Islamic history.\n\nOne rationale given for recognition of concubinage in Islam is that \"it satisfied the sexual desire of the female slaves and thereby prevented the spread of immorality in the Muslim community.\" Most schools restrict concubinage to a relationship where the female slave is required to be monogamous to her master (though the master's monogamy to her is not required), but according to Sikainga, \"in reality, however, female slaves in many Muslim societies were prey for [male] members of their owners' household, their [owner's male] neighbors, and their [owner's male] guests.\"\n\nThe history of slavery in Islamic states and of sexual relations with slaves, was the \"responsibility of Muslims, and not of the Quran\", according to Parwez, as quoted by Clarence-Smith. Amir Ali blamed the history of Islamic slavery in racist terms, states Clarence-Smith, stating that slave servitude and sexual abuse of captive slaves may have been because of degeneration of the Arabs from their admixing over time with \"lower races such as Ethiopians\".\n\nRape is considered a serious sexual crime in Islam, and can be defined in Islamic law as: \"Forcible illegal sexual intercourse by a man with a woman who is not legally married to him, without her free will and consent\".\n\nRape is forbidden under Islamic law. It is defined as having extramarital intercourse by force or fear, including any subsequent injury both to the victim's mental and physical health. According to Islamic law, it is classified as \"hirabah\", i.e. a violent crime causing disorder in the land in the manner described in the Qur'an as \"fasad\" (destructive mischief). A similar crime, for example, would be highway robbery, as it puts fear in people going out or losing their property through violence. Some other branches of Islamic law consider it to be part of \"zina\", as a crime called \"forced fornication\" (\"zina-bil-jabr\"). In Sharia, rape is punishable by stoning to death.\n\nUnder Islam, sexual intercourse is regarded as a loving act within marriage and should only be by mutual consent. There is, however, no explicit concept of rape within marriage in Sharia; a wife is deemed to have accepted conjugal relations as part of the marriage contract. She can only refuse on grounds which are specified as prohibited for sexual intercourse such as when she is fasting, menstruating, undergoing post-natal puerperal discharge, or whilst on Hajj or Umrah.\n\nClassical Islamic law defined what today is commonly called \"rape\" as a coercive form of fornication or adultery (\"zināʾ\"). This basic definition of rape as \"coercive \"zināʾ\"\" meant that all the normal legal principles that pertained to \"zināʾ\"its definition, punishment and establishment through evidencewere also applicable to rape; the prototypical act of \"zināʾ\" was defined as sexual intercourse between a man and a woman over whom the man has neither a conjugal nor an ownership right. Sane adult male and female convicted of \"zināʾ\" were to receive a fixed corporal punishment (\"ḥadd\"):\n\n\n\"Zināʾ\" was established, according to classical law, through confession by one or both parties as well as proof. A second type of evidencepregnancy in an unmarried/unowned woman was contested between the schools. The stringent evidentiary and procedural standards for implementing the zināʾ punishment may have functioned to offset the severity of the punishment itself, an effect that seems to have been intended by legal authorities, who in the early period developed legal maxims encouraging averting the ḥadd punishments as much as possible, whether through claiming ambiguity (shubhah) or a lack of legal capacity (ahliyya).\n\nWhat distinguished a prototypical act of zināʾ from an act of rape, for the jurists, was that in the prototypical case, both parties act out of their own volition, while in an act of rape, only one of the parties does so. Jurists admitted a wide array of situations as being \"coercive\" in nature, including the application of physical force, the presence of duress, or the threat of future harm either to oneself or those close to oneself; they also included in their definition of \"coercion\" the inability to give valid consent, as in the case of minors, or mentally ill or unconscious persons. Muslim jurists from the earliest period of Islamic law agreed that perpetrators of coercive \"zināʾ\" should receive the \"ḥadd\" punishment normally applicable to their personal status and sexual status, but that the ḥadd punishment should not be applied to victims of coercive or nonconsensual \"zināʾ\" due to their reduced capacity.\n\nAccording to the Mālikī, Ḥanbalī, and Shāfiʾī schools of law, the rape of a free woman consisted of not one but two violations: a violation against a \"right of God\" (\"ḥaqq Allāh\"), provoking the \"ḥadd\" punishment; and a violation against a \"human\" (interpersonal) right (\"ḥaqq ādamī\"), requiring a monetary compensation. These jurists saw the free woman, in her proprietorship over her own sexuality (\"buḍʾ\"), as not unlike the slave-owner who owns the sexuality of his female slave. For them, in the same way that the slave owner was entitled to compensation for sexual misappropriation, the free woman was also entitled to compensation. The amount of this compensation, they reasoned, should be the amount that any man would normally pay for sexual access to the woman in question that is, the amount of her dower (\"ṣadāq\" or \"mahr\"). As far as abortion in the context of rape, most jurist do not consider rape to be a valid reason: the sanctity of the new life takes precedence over the autonomy of the pregnant women.\n\nHowever, some womenin the middle east were arrested after they went to the police to report rapes.\n\nSexual intercourse is prohibited:\n\nMarriage with an idolatress or idolater is forbidden (2:221). As well as marriage to one's father's wives (4:22), one's mother, daughters, sisters, father's sisters, mother's sisters, brother's daughters, sister's daughters, foster-mothers, foster-sisters, mother-in-law, stepdaughters born of women with whom one has had conjugal relations, the wives of blood-sons, and two sisters from the same family (4:23), as well as all married women except who have become slaves as their previous marriage ends on becoming slave (3:24).\n\nYusuf al-Qaradawi, a contemporary Sunni Muslim scholar, states that sodomy is prohibited. As the act is forbidden in the Islamic marriage contract, a wife must abstain from it should her husband demand it and may seek divorce if her husband persists or tries to force it on her. The act in itself, however, does not nullify the marriage and the wife must seek divorce if she is to leave her husband.\n\nMuslim scholars justify the prohibition on the basis of the Qur'anic verse 2:223, saying that it commands intercourse only in the vagina (i.e. potentially procreational intercourse). The vaginal intercourse may be in any manner the couple wishes, that is, from behind or from the front, sitting or with the wife lying on her back or on her side.\n\nThere are also several \"hadith\" which prohibit sodomy.\n\nIslamic law establishes two categories of legal, sexual relationships: between husband and wife, and between a man and his concubine. All other sexual relationships are considered \"zināʾ\" (fornication), including adultery and homosexuality, according to Islamic law and exegesis of the Qur'an. From the story of Lot it is clear that the Qur'an regards sodomy as an egregious sin. The death by stoning for people of Sodom and Gomorrah is similar to the stoning punishment stipulated for illegal heterosexual sex. There is no punishment for a man who sodomizes a woman because it is not tied to procreation. However, other jurists insist that any act of lust in which the result is the injecting of semen into another person constitutes sexual intercourse.\n\nSodomy often falls under that same category as sex between and unmarried man and women engaging in sexual acts. Male-male intercourse is referred to as \"liwat\" (literally, \"joining\") while female-female intercourse is referred to as \"sihaq\" (literally, \"rubbing\"). Both are considered reprehensible acts but there is no consensus on punishment for either. Some jurists define \"zināʾ\" exclusively as the act of unlawful vaginal penetration, hence categorizing and punishing anal penetration in different ways. Other jurists included both vaginal and anal penetration within the definition of \"zināʾ\" and hence extended the punishment of the one to the other.\nReligious discourse has mostly focused on sexual acts, which are unambiguously condemned. The Qur'an refers explicitly to male-male sexual relations only in the context of the story of Lot, but labels the Sodomites's actions (universally understood in the later tradition as anal intercourse) an \"abomination\" (female-female relations are not addressed). Reported pronouncements by Muhammad (\"hadith\") reinforce the interdiction on male-male sodomy, although there are no reports of his ever adjudicating an actual case of such an offense; he is also quoted as condemning cross-gender behavior for both sexes, but it is unclear to what extent this is to be understood as involving sexual relations. Several early caliphs, confronted with cases of sodomy between males, are said to have had both partners executed, by a variety of means. While taking such precedents into account, medieval jurists were unable to achieve a consensus on this issue; some legal schools prescribed capital punishment for sodomy, but others opted only for a relatively mild discretionary punishment. There was general agreement, however, that other homosexual acts (including any between females) were lesser offenses, subject only to discretionary punishment.\n\nCurrently, sodomy is punishable by death in a number of Muslim countries, including Saudi Arabia and Yemen, as well as in Nigeria's Sharia courts.\n\nIn Islam, oral sex between a husband and wife is considered \"Makruh Tahrimi\" or highly undesirable by some Islamic jurists when the act is defined as mouth and tongue coming in contact with the genitals. The reason behind considering this act as not recommended is manifold, the foremost being the issue of modesty, purification (Taharat) and cleanliness.\n\nThe most common argument states that the mouth and tongue are used for recitation of the Qur'an and for the remembrance of Allah (Dhikr). The status of genital secretions is debated among the four Sunni schools, some scholars viewing it as impure and others not.\n\nAfter partaking in sexual activity where penetration or ejaculation occurs, both men and women are required to complete a full-body ritual ablution known as \"ghusl\" in order to re-establish ritual purity before prayer. \"Ghusl\" requires clean, odorless water that has not been used for a previous ritual and begins with the declaration of the intention of purity and worship. A Muslim performing complete ablution then washes every part of his or her body.\n\nAccording to Qura'nic verse 2:187, one may have sex during the month of Ramadan but not during the time of fasting. As such, sex during Ramadan is only permitted at night. Although this passage is explicitly addressed to men, the regulations on sex in regard to fasting are universally taken to apply equally to both male and female Muslims.\n\nVerse 2:222 in the Qur'an implies that sexual relations during menstruation are prohibited. However, unlike Jewish tradition, Islam does not forbid men from interacting with menstruating women entirely. Ibn Kathīr, a muhaddith, narrated a hadith that describes Muhammad's habits with his menstruating wives. This hadith demonstrates that Muhammad gave license to all forms of spousal intimacy during the period of menstruation with the exception of vaginal intercourse. Women are required to perform ritual cleansing (\"ghusl\") before resuming religious duties or sexual relations upon completion of her menstruation.\n\nNocturnal emission is not a sin in Islam. Moreover, whereas a person fasting (in Ramadan or otherwise) would normally be considered to have broken their fast by ejaculating on purpose (during either masturbation or intercourse), nocturnal emission is not such a cause. They are still required to bathe prior to undergoing some rituals in the religion. Muslim scholars consider ejaculation something that makes one temporarily ritually impure, a condition known as junub; meaning that a Muslim who has had an orgasm or ejaculated must have a \"ghusl\", before they can read the Qur'an or perform the formal prayer known as salat.\n\nAccording to most jurists, masturbation is generally considered Haram or prohibited in Islam. But there are varying opinions on the permissibility of masturbation. The Qur'an has been cited as being ambiguous on the issue of masturbation. The hadith regarding masturbation are, too, not considered to take a definitive stance on the subject. As such, positions on masturbation vary widely. According to alDin Tarbiyyah, it is permissible if done out of necessity. He also permitted masturbation as a means whereby soldiers, far away from their wives on a tour of duty may remain chaste. The four Sunni schools of jurisprudence (known as Madhaahib - the \"Hanafi\", \"Shafi'i\", \"Maliki\" and \"Hanbali\" schools of \"Fiqh\") have differing stances on the issue. Some see it forbidden in certain cases (i.e. if it leads a man/woman to ignore their spouse sexually) but recommended it when they see it as a lesser evil to illicit sex. It is generally prohibited according to the Hanafi and Hanbali Mazhabs, unless one fears adultery or fornication, or is under the desire pressure, in which case, it is permissible to seek a relief through masturbation. According to Ahmed ibn Hanbal, it is permissible for prisoners, travellers and for men and women who have difficulty in finding a lawful spouse. It is prohibited all the time according to the Maliki and Shafi`i Mazhabs. It is haram in Shi'ite jurisprudence. There has always been a view to permit masturbation as the lesser of two evils (so as to ward of falling into fornication). Thus it is categorically incorrect to state that all Islamic scholars of the early Islamic age have unanimously agreed upon its complete prohibition. Jurists distinguish between those who masturbate out of necessity and those who have these means yet still masturbate to gratify their lust.\n\nThe Qur'an does not contain explicit text regarding contraception. Muslims refer to the hadith on the question of contraception. According to Muslim scolars, birth control is permitted, when it is temporary and for a valid reason. The companions of Muhammad are cited when addressing this issue. For example, Jabir, one of Muhammad's companions, relates a hadith in which a man came to Muhammad and said As such, the withdrawal method of contraception is allowed according to the hadith. Muslim jurists concur with its permissibility and use analogical deduction to approve other forms of contraception (e.g. condom usage). Supporting Sunnah include:\n\nIt is not permitted to carry out operations on men or women that will lead to complete sterility, such as cutting the vas deferens (vasectomy) in men, or removing the ovaries or womb (hysterectomy or ligation) in women. Irreversible methods of contraception and birth control called sterilization are not allowed for both male and female, except in the case of the wife who becomes terminally ill and perpetually incapable of having babies. Therefore, if the sterilization is irreversible and cannot be undone, it will not be permissible unless the woman is terminally ill. Under normal circumstances, sterilization is considered to be absolutely and decidedly prohibited in Shari’ah. The irreversible nature associated with both the male and female sterilizations clearly contradicts one of the primary purposes of marriage which is to have children, as mentioned by Abu Hamid al-Ghazali in his Ihya’ Ulum al-Din. \nFurthermore, sterilization is a form of mutilation of one’s body (muthla), which has been clearly forbidden in the Shari’ah. Allah Most High mentions in An-Nisa the words of Satan, when he said:\n\nHowever, in cases of absolute necessity, sterilization does become permitted. The well-known principle of Islamic jurisprudence based on the guidelines of the Qur’an and Hadith states: \n\nBeing sterilized permanently may mean one of two things: \n\nThe Islamic Fiqh Council stated the following: \n\nBased on this, if preventing pregnancy is for a legitimate reason as outlined above, then there is nothing to do anything. But if it was not for a necessary reason, then sterilizing is prohibited.\n\nCastration is removal of the testicles. The Arabic word translated here as castration may also refer to removal of the testicles and penis. Some scholars differentiated between the two and said: If his testicles only are cut off, then he is a eunuch; if his penis is cut off, then he is emasculated. \nIt is prohibited for a person to do that deliberately to himself or to someone else. Castration of the human is prohibited in Islam, whether he is a child or an adult, because of the prohibition on hadith on that. Ibn Hajar said:\nAmong the reports that confirm this prohibition is the following prophet Muhammad's era, when some followers wanted to be castrated in abstance of their wives, but the prophet forbade it and permitted three days temporary marriage for them for a certain period, but after the period he declered it permanently forbidden: \n\nIbn Hajar said, commenting on these hadiths: \n\nThe reason behind the prohibition on castration is that it is contrary to what the Lawgiver wants of increasing reproduction to ensure continuation of struggle against the disbelievers. Otherwise, if permission had been given for that, then many people would have done that, and reproduction would have ceased, and the numbers of Muslims would have become less as a result, and the numbers of non-muslims would have increased, and that is contrary to the religious purpose.\n\nRegarding the response to In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) of Islam, the conclusions of Gad El-Hak Ali Gad El-Hak's ART fatwa include that:\n\nIslamic schools of law have differing opinions on abortion, though it is prohibited or discouraged by most. However, abortion is allowed under certain circumstances, such as if the mother's health is [seriously] threatened. If the abortion is necessary to save the woman's life, Muslims universally agree that her life takes precedence over the life of the fetus. Muslim jurists allow abortion in this context based on the principle that what is considered the greater evilthe woman's deathshould be warded off by accepting the lesser evil of abortion. In these cases, the physician is considered a better judge than the scholar. Abortions of pregnancies that are merely unplanned or unwanted are generally \"haram\" (forbidden). The Qur'an forbids the abortion of a fetus for fear of poverty:\n\nMuslim views on abortion are also shaped by the Hadith as well as by the opinions of legal and religious scholars and commentators. In Islam, the fetus is believed to become a living soul after four months of gestation, and abortion after that point is generally viewed as impermissible. Many Islamic thinkers recognize exceptions to this rule for certain circumstances; indeed, Azizah Y. al-Hibri notes that \"the majority of Muslim scholars permit abortion, although they differ on the stage of fetal development beyond which it becomes prohibited.\" According to Sherman Jackson, \"while abortion, even during the first trimester, is forbidden according to a minority of jurists, it is not held to be an offense for which there are criminal or even civil sanctions,\" so Muslims should not support legal restrictions on abortion rights unsupported by Islamic law, as opposed to solely moral activism.\n\nMost Muslim scholars hold that the child of rape is a legitimate human being and therefore subject to the same laws of abortion (i.e. its abortion is permitted only if the fetus is less than four months old, or if it endangers the life of its mother). Some scholars disagree with this position. Some Muslim scholars also argue that abortion is permitted if the newborn might be sick in some way that would make its care exceptionally difficult for the parents (e.g. deformities, mental retardation, etc.).\n\n\n\n\nGeneral\n\n"}
{"id": "23799212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23799212", "title": "Kabyle (ancient city)", "text": "Kabyle (ancient city)\n\nKabyle () is an ancient Thracian city near the modern city of Kabile. It is situated less than 10 km away from Yambol, south-eastern Bulgaria. Kabyle used to be one of the most important centers of south-eastern Thrace. It was established around 2000 BC on the Zaychi Vrah Heights. It was proclaimed part of the 100 Tourist Sites of Bulgaria. The territory of the city and the surrounding area was proclaimed a territory of national importance in 1965 and converted to an archaeological reserve. The area of the reserve is around 65 km.\n\nMany of the findings are housed in the onsite museum which also includes an exhibition tracking the excavation history of the site.\n\nIn 341 BC Kabyle was conquered by the army of Philip II of Macedon and was later included in the Empire of Alexander of Macedon. In the 3rd century BC it was governed again by the Thracians.\n\nIn 71 BC it became part of the Roman Empire after the city was conquered by the troops of Marcus Lucullus and after 45 BC it was included in the Roman province of Thracia. The city was a major trade and military center between the 3rd and the 2nd century BC. Kabyle was one of the most important cities of Thrace following the reforms of Emperor Diocletian in 4th century.\n\nIn late 4th century Kabyle was seized by the Goths. It was finally destroyed by the Avars and never settled again. During the Middle Ages there was a small settlement located in the territory of the ancient city.\n"}
{"id": "20990139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20990139", "title": "Kerkouane Archaeological Museum", "text": "Kerkouane Archaeological Museum\n\nKerkouane Archaeological Museum is an archaeological museum located in Kerkouane, Tunisia. It contains statuary, jewelry and ceramic art.\n\n"}
{"id": "3932627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3932627", "title": "Kidwelly Castle", "text": "Kidwelly Castle\n\nKidwelly Castle () is a Norman castle overlooking the River Gwendraeth and the town of Kidwelly, Carmarthenshire, Wales. \n\nThe present remains of the castle include work from about 1114 to about 1476. Created as a defence against the Welsh, the castle fell to the Welsh several times in the twelfth century. Later in its history, it was unsuccessfully besieged by forces of Owain Glyndŵr in 1403 with assistance from soldiers from France and Brittany who captured Kidwelly town. The castle was relieved by a Norman army after just three weeks. The gatehouse was extensively damaged and it was rebuilt on the instructions of King Henry V. It largely escaped involvement in the English Civil War.\n\nThe plan of the castle consists of a square inner bailey defended by four round towers, which overlook a semi-circular outer curtain wall on the landward side, with the massive gatehouse next to the river. The river prevents this from being a truly concentric plan, however a jutting tower protects the riverside walls, and the final plan is very strong.\nThe castle is relatively well-preserved, and is managed by Cadw.\n\nThe surrounding countryside is reputedly haunted by the headless ghost of Gwenllian ferch Gruffydd, wife of the Welsh prince Gruffydd ap Rhys, who was beheaded in 1136.\n\nKidwelly was used as a location for the film \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\", appearing in the very first scene after the titles. After the first view of King Arthur and Patsy, a very misty establishing shot shows Kidwelly as their destination. However, the following close up filming was done at Doune Castle in Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21766209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21766209", "title": "Koliada", "text": "Koliada\n\nKoliada or koleda (Cyrillic: коляда, коледа, колада, коледе) is an ancient pre-Christian Slavic winter festival. It was later incorporated into Christmas.\n\nThe word is still used in modern Ukrainian (\"Коляда\", Kolyadá), Belarusian (\"Каляда\", Kalada, Kalyada), Russian (\"Коляда\", Kolyada), Polish (Szczodre Gody \"kolęda\" ), Bulgarian, Macedonian, Serbian (\"Коледа, Коледе\") Lithuanian (\"Kalėdos, Kalėda\") and Bosnian, Croatian, Czech, Slovak, Slovene (\"koleda\"). \n\nThe word used in Old Church Slavonic language (Колѧда - Kolęnda) sounds closest to the current Polish language pronunciation, as Polish is the only Slavic language which retains the nasal vowels of the Proto-Slavic language. One theory states that Koliada is the name of a cycle of winter rituals stemming from the ancient \"calendae\".\n\nSome claim it was named after Kolyada, the Slavic god of winter or Koliada, the goddess who brings up a new sun every day.\n\nIn modern Ukrainian, Russian (koliada), Czech, Slovak, Croatian (koleda), Kashubian \"kòlãda\", Romanian (colindă) and Polish (\"kolęda\" , Old Polish \"kolenda\") the meaning has shifted from Christmas itself to denoting the tradition of strolling, singing, and having fun on Christmas Eve, same in the Balkan Slavs. It specifically applies to children and teens who walk house to house greeting people, singing and sifting grain that denotes the best wishes and receiving candy and small money in return. The action is called kolyadovannya in Ukrainian and is now applied to similar Old East Slavic celebrations of other old significant holidays, such as \"Generous Eve\" (, ) the evening before New Year's Day, as well as the celebration of the arrival of spring. Similarly in Bulgaria and Macedonia, in the tradition of koleduvane (коледуване) or koledarenje (коледарење) around Christmas, groups of kids visiting houses, singing carols and receiving a gift at parting. The kids are called 'koledari' or rarely 'kolezhdani' who sing kolyadki (songs).\n\nKoleda is also celebrated across northern Greece by the Slavic speakers of Greek Macedonia, in areas from Florina to Thessaloniki, where it is called Koleda (Κόλιντα, Κόλιαντα) or Koleda Babo (Κόλιντα Μπάμπω) which means \"Koleda Grandmother\" in Slavic. It is celebrated before Christmas by gathering in the village square and lighting a bonfire, followed by local Macedonian music and dancing.\n\nCroatian composer Jakov Gotovac wrote in 1925 the composition \"Koleda\", which he called a \"folk rite in five parts\", for male choir and small orchestra (3 clarinets, 2 bassoons, timpani and drum). There is also a dance from Dubrovnik called \"The Dubrovnik Koleda.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24278889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24278889", "title": "Mamoun Fandy", "text": "Mamoun Fandy\n\nDr. Mamoun Fandy is an Egyptian-born American scholar. He is president of the think tank London Global Strategy Institute, a former senior fellow at the Baker Institute, the United States Institute of Peace, and at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. Before that Fandy was a research professor of politics at the Center for Contemporary Arab Studies at the School of Foreign Service of Georgetown University, as well as of Arab politics at the National Defense University. He is frequently seen on American television, and is a columnist for \"Al-Ahram\" and the \"Asharq Al-Awsat\".\n\nIn his 2007 book \"\", Fandy called Al Jazeera \"the Muslim Brotherhood channel\", noting that it glorified Muslim Brotherhood founder Hassan Al-Bannah in a two-part documentary in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "351504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351504", "title": "Middle East Media Research Institute", "text": "Middle East Media Research Institute\n\nThe Middle East Media Research Institute (MEMRI) is a nonprofit press monitoring and analysis organization with headquarters in Washington, D.C. MEMRI publishes and distributes free English language translations of Arabic, Persian, Urdu, Pashto, and Turkish media reports.\n\nMEMRI states that its goal is to \"bridge the language gap between the Middle East and the West.\" It has been praised as an \"invaluable\" resource and for helping to \"shine a spotlight on hate speech wherever it appears\". Critics charge that despite portraying itself as neutral, it aims to portray the Arab and Muslim world in a negative light through the production and dissemination of incomplete translations and by selectively translating views of extremists while deemphasizing or ignoring mainstream opinions.\n\nThe institute was co-founded in 1998 by Yigal Carmon, a former Israeli military intelligence officer and Meyrav Wurmser, an Israeli-born American political scientist.\n\nThe organization indirectly gained public prominence as a source of news and analysis about the Muslim world, following the September 11 attacks and the subsequent war on terrorism by the Bush administration. According to MEMRI, its translations and reports are distributed to \"congresspersons, congressional staff, policy makers, journalists, academics, and interested parties\". According to PRA, MEMRI's translated articles and its commentary are routinely cited in national media outlets in the United States, including \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", and \"Los Angeles Times\", while analyses by MEMRI staff and officers are frequently published by right-wing and neoconservative media outlets such as \"National Review\", \"Fox News\", \"Commentary\", and the \"Weekly Standard\". PRA writes that both critics and supporters of MEMRI note its increasing influence in shaping perceptions of the Middle East. It has maintained longstanding relations with law enforcement agencies.\n\nConcerning this change in their 'mission statement,' Political Research Associates (PRA), which studies the US political right, notes that it occurred three weeks after the September 11 attacks, and considers MEMRI \"was previously more forthcoming about its political orientation in its self-description and in staff profiles on its website\". PRA considers that \"MEMRI's slogan, 'Bridging the Language Gap Between the Middle East and the West,' does not convey the institute's stridently pro-Israel and anti-Arab political bias.\" It further notes, that MEMRI's founders, Wurmser and Carmon, \"are both hardline pro-Israel ideologues aligned with Israel's Likud party\". Carmon, in a public letter to Juan Cole that included a threat with a lawsuit over his comments on MEMRI, stated that he has never been affiliated with Likud. Cole answered that he hadn't alleged that, but that MEMRI would campaign for Likud goals such as the rejection of the Oslo peace process.\n\nIn 2012, \"Haaretz\" reported that Israeli intelligence agencies have reduced their monitoring the Palestinian media with MEMRI and Palestinian Media Watch now providing the Israeli government with coverage of \"anti-Israel incitement\" in social media, blogs and other online sources. The Prime Minister's Bureau has stated that before the government cites information provided by the two sources, the source of the material and its credibility is confirmed.\n\nMEMRI's work is organized into projects, each with a specific focus. The main subjects the organization addresses are jihad and terrorism; relations between the U.S. and Middle East; pro-democracy and pro-civil rights views; inter-Arab relations; and anti-Semitism.\n\nThe Reform Project, according to MEMRI, focuses on monitoring, translating, and amplifying media from Muslim figures and movements with progressive viewpoints in the Arab and Muslim world. The project also aims to provide a platform for those sources to expand their reach. MEMRI has stated that this is the organization's flagship project.\n\nThe MEMRI Lantos Archives on anti-Semitism and Holocaust Denial, a joint project with the Lantos Foundation for Human Rights and Justice launched in 2009, is a repository of translated Arabic and Farsi material on anti-Semitism. The project is sponsored by the U.S. State Department. Through its translations and research, the project aims to document anti-Semitic trends in the Middle East and South Asia. The project provides policymakers with translations and footage of anti-Semitic comments made by media personalities, academics, and government and religious leaders. MEMRI holds an annual Capitol Hill gathering through the project, and publishes an annual report on anti-Semitism and Holocaust denial. The archives were named for Tom Lantos, the only Holocaust survivor to serve in United States Congress.\n\nArab and Iranian television programming is monitored, translated, and analyzed through the MEMRI TV Monitoring Project. Established in 2004, the project's translated video clips are available to the media and general public.\n\nActivity by terrorist and violent extremist organizations is tracked through the Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM). The project disseminates jihadi-associated social media content and propaganda released by various Islamic State media companies.\n\nThe organization's Cyber and Jihad Lab (CJL) tracks cyberterrorism. According to MEMRI, the CJL's goal is to inform and make recommendations to legislators and the business community about the threat of cyberterrorism. Initiatives have included encouraging social media companies to remove terrorist accounts and sought legislation to prevent terrorist entities from using their platforms.\n\nMEMRI's other projects include the Russian Media Studies Project, which translates Russian media and publishes reports analyzing Russian political ideology, the Iran Studies Project, the South Asia Studies Project, and the 9/11 Documentation Project.\n\nAccording to its website, MEMRI provides translations and analysis of Arabic, Farsi, Dari, Urdu, Pashto, and Turkish media. It has recently added a Russian media translation project.\n\nMEMRI provides translations into and analysis in English, French, Polish, Japanese, Spanish, and Hebrew.\n\nMEMRI is registered in the US with the IRS as a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. They have a policy of not accepting money from governments, relying instead on around 250 private donors, including other organizations and foundations.\n\nMediaTransparency, an organization that monitors the financial ties of conservative think tanks to conservative foundations in the United States, reported that for the years 1999 to 2004, MEMRI received $100,000 from The Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation, Inc., $100,000 from The Randolph Foundation, and $5,000 from the John M. Olin Foundation.\n\nMEMRI's U.S. income statement of June 2004 stated that its total U.S. revenue was US$2,571,899, its total US functional expenses were $2,254,990, and that it possessed net assets of $700,784. Charity Navigator, an organization that evaluates the financial health of America's largest charities, has given MEMRI a four-star (exceptional) rating, meaning that it \"… exceeds industry standards and outperforms most charities in its Cause\" when rated on its financial health.\n\nIn August 2011, the United States Department of State's Office of International Religious Freedom in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, awarded MEMRI a $200,000 grant.\n\nThe organization's translations are regularly quoted by major international newspapers, and its work has generated strong criticism and praise. Critics have accused MEMRI of producing inaccurate, unreliable translations with undue emphasis and selectivity in translating and disseminating the most extreme views from Arabic and Persian media, which portray the Arab and Muslim world in a negative light, while ignoring moderate views that are often found in the same media outlets. Other critics charge that while MEMRI does sometimes translate pro-US or pro-democracy voices in the regional media, it systematically leaves out intelligent criticism of Western-style democracy, US and Israeli policy and secularism.\n\nMEMRI's work has been criticized on three grounds: that their work is biased; that they choose articles to translate selectively so as to give an unrepresentative view of the media they are reporting on; and that some of their translations are inaccurate. MEMRI has responded to the criticism, stating that their work is not biased; that they in fact choose representative articles from the Arab media that accurately reflect the opinions expressed, and that their translations are highly accurate.\n\nBrian Whitaker, the Middle East editor for \"The Guardian\" newspaper at the time, wrote in a public email debate with Carmon in 2003, that his problem with MEMRI was that it \"poses as a research institute when it's basically a propaganda operation\". Earlier, Whitaker had charged that MEMRI's role was to \"further the political agenda of Israel.\" and that MEMRI's website does not mention Carmon's employment for Israeli intelligence, or Meyrav Wurmser's political stance, which he described as an \"extreme brand of Zionism\". Carmon responded to this by stating that his employment history is not a secret and was not political, as he served under opposing administrations of the Israeli government and that perhaps the issue was that he was Israeli: \"If your complaint is that I am Israeli, then please say so.\" Carmon also questioned Whitaker's own biases, wondering if Whitaker's is biased in favor of Arabs – as his website on the Middle East is named \"Al-Bab\" (\"The Gateway\" in Arabic) – stating: \"I wonder how you would judge an editor whose website was called \"Ha-Sha-ar\" (\"The Gateway\" in Hebrew)?\n\nNorman Finkelstein has described MEMRI as \"a main arm of Israeli propaganda\". In 2006, Finkelstein accused MEMRI of editing a television interview he gave in Lebanon in order to falsely impute that he was a Holocaust denier. In an interview with the newspaper \"In Focus\" in 2007, he said MEMRI uses \"the same sort of propaganda techniques as the Nazis\" and \"take[s] things out of context in order to do personal and political harm to people they don't like\".\n\nSeveral critics have accused MEMRI of selectivity. They state that MEMRI consistently picks the most extreme views for translation and dissemination, which portray the Arab and Muslim world in a negative light, while ignoring moderate views that are often found in the same media outlets. Juan Cole, a professor of Modern Middle East History at the University of Michigan, argues MEMRI has a tendency to \"cleverly cherry-pick the vast Arabic press, which serves 300 million people, for the most extreme and objectionable articles and editorials … On more than one occasion I have seen, say, a bigoted Arabic article translated by MEMRI and when I went to the source on the web, found that it was on the same op-ed page with other, moderate articles arguing for tolerance. These latter were not translated.\" Former head of the CIA's counterintelligence unit, Vincent Cannistraro, said that MEMRI \"are selective and act as propagandists for their political point of view, which is the extreme-right of Likud. They simply don't present the whole picture.\" Laila Lalami, writing in \"The Nation\", states that MEMRI \"consistently picks the most violent, hateful rubbish it can find, translates it and distributes it in email newsletters to media and members of Congress in Washington.\" As a result, critics such as UK Labour politician Ken Livingstone state that MEMRI's analyses are distortion.\n\nA report by Center for American Progress, titled \"Fear, Inc.: The Roots of the Islamophobia Network in America\" lists MEMRI as promoting Islamophobic propaganda in the USA through supplying selective translations that are relied upon by several organisations \"to make the case that Islam is inherently violent and promotes extremism.\"\n\nMEMRI argues that they are quoting the government-controlled press and not obscure or extremist publications, a fact their critics acknowledge, according to Marc Perelman: \"When we quote \"Al-Ahram\" in Egypt, it is as if we were quoting \"The New York Times\". We know there are people questioning our work, probably those who have difficulties seeing the truth. But no one can show anything wrong about our translations.\"\n\nIn August 2013, the Islamic Da'wah Centre of South Australia questioned the \"reliability, independence and veracity\" of the Middle East Media Research Institute after it posted what the centre called a \"sensational de-contextualised cut-and-paste video clip … put together in a suggestive manner\" of a sermon by the Sheikh Sharif Hussein on an American website. According to the two-minute video, which was a heavily condensed version of the Sheikh's 36-minute speech delivered in Adelaide on 22 March, Hussein called Australian and American soldiers \"crusader pigs\" and stated \"O Allah, count the Buddhists and the Hindus one by one. O Allah, count them and kill them to the very last one.\" According to MEMRI's translation, he also described US President Barack Obama as an \"enemy of Allah, you who kiss the shoes and feet of the Jews\" and predicted that \"The day will come when you are trampled upon by the pure feet of the Muslims.\" MEMRI's rendition moved leading Liberal senator Cory Bernardi to write to the Police Commissioner charging that under Australia's anti-terrorism laws, the video clip was \"hate speech\", and requesting that action be taken against Hussein. The South Australian Islamic Society and the Australian Buddhist Councils Federation also condemned Hussein's speech. Widespread calls from the public for the deportation of Hussein and his family followed news reports of the video. A police spokeswoman stated \"Police will examine the entire content of the sermon to gain the full context and determine whether any crime has been committed.\" Hussein himself declined any comment on the contents of the video. However, the Da'wah Centre charged that by omitting the context of Hussein's statements, MEMRI had distorted the actual intent of the speech. While admitting that the Sheikh was emotional and used strong words, the Centre stated that the speech was delivered in relation to rape cases in Iraq, the birth defects due to use of depleted uranium and the Burmese Buddhist massacre. This, the Centre claimed, was omitted from the edited MEMRI video.\n\nMEMRI's translations are considered \"usually accurate\" though occasionally disputed and highly selective in what it chooses to translate and in which context it puts things, as in the case of MEMRI's translation of a 2004 Osama bin Laden video, which MEMRI defended, which it said indicated that any individual US state that did not vote for President George W. Bush \"guarantees its own security,\" implying a threat against those states that did vote for him; outside translators, and the original article that the MEMRI alert claimed to correct, indicated that Bin Laden was threatening \"nations\", not individual US states.\n\nFollowing the 7 July 2005 London bombings, Al Jazeera invited Hani al-Sebai, an Islamist living in Britain, to take part in a discussion on the event. Al-Sibai is listed as a Specially Designated National by the US Treasury Department because of alleged support for al-Qaida. For one segment of the discussion in regard to the victims, MEMRI provided the following translation of al-Sebai's words:\n\nAl-Sebai subsequently claimed that MEMRI had mistranslated his interview, and that among other errors, he had actually said:\n\nBy leaving out the condemnation of the \"killing of innocents\" entirely, Mohammed El Oifi, writing in \"Le Monde diplomatique\", argued that this translation left the implication that civilians (the innocent) are considered a legitimate target. Several British newspapers subsequently used MEMRI's translation to run headlines such as \"Islamic radical has praised the suicide bomb attacks on the capital\" prompting al-Sebai to demand an apology and take legal action. In his view, MEMRI's translation was also \"an incitement to have me arrested by the British authorities\".\n\nHalim Barakat described MEMRI as \"a propaganda organization dedicated to representing Arabs and Muslims as anti-Semites\". Barakat claims an essay he wrote for the Al-Hayat Daily of London titled \"The Wild Beast that Zionism Created: Self-Destruction\", was mistranslated by MEMRI and retitled as \"Jews Have Lost Their Humanity\". Barakat further stated \"Every time I wrote 'Zionism', MEMRI replaced the word by 'Jew' or 'Judaism'. They want to give the impression that I'm not criticizing Israeli policy, but that what I'm saying is anti-Semitic.\" According to Barakat, he was subject to widespread condemnation from faculty and his office was \"flooded with hatemail\". Fellow Georgetown faculty member Aviel Roshwald accused Barakat in an article he published of promoting a \"demonization of Israel and of Jews\". Supported by Georgetown colleagues, Barakat denied the claim, which Roshwald had based on MEMRI's translation of Barakat's essay.\n\nIn 2007, CNN correspondent Atika Shubert and Arabic translators accused MEMRI of mistranslating portions of a Palestinian children's television program:\n\nCNN's Glenn Beck later invited Yigal Carmon onto his program to comment on the alleged mistranslation. Carmon criticized the CNNs translators' understanding of Arabic, stating: \"Even someone who doesn't know Arabic would listen to the tape and would hear the word 'Jews' is at the end, and also it means it is something to be done to the Jews, not by the Jews. And she [Octavia] insisted, no the word is in the beginning. I said: 'Octavia, you just don't get it. It is at the end.'\" Carmon was referring to Arabic native speaker Octavia Nasr, a Greek-orthodox Christian from Lebanon, who was later fired by CNN for a tweet praising late Ayatollah Hussein Fadlallah. Brian Whitaker, a Middle East editor for the British \"Guardian\" newspaper later pointed out that the word order in Arabic is not the same as in English: \"the verb comes first and so a sentence in Arabic which literally says 'Are shooting at us the Jews' means 'The Jews are shooting at us.'\"\n\nNaomi Sakr, a professor of Media Policy at the University of Westminster has charged that specific MEMRI mistranslations, occurring during times of international tension, have generated hostility towards Arab journalists.\n\nBrian Whitaker wrote in a blog for \"The Guardian\" newspaper that in the translation of the video, showing Farfour eliciting political comments from a young girl named Sanabel, the MEMRI transcript misrepresents the segment. Farfour asks Sanabel what she will do and, after a pause says \"I'll shoot\". MEMRI attributed the phrase said by Farfour, \"I'll shoot\", as the girl's reply while ignoring her actual reply of \"I'm going to draw a picture\". Whitaker and others commented that a statement uttered by the same child, \"We're going to [or want to] resist\", had been given an unduly aggressive interpretation by MEMRI as \"We want to fight\". Also, where MEMRI translated the girl as saying the highly controversial remark \"We will annihilate the Jews\", Whitaker and others, including Arabic speakers used by CNN, insist that, based on careful listening to the low quality video clip, the girl is saying \"Bitokhoona al-yahood\", variously interpreted as \"The Jews [will] shoot us\" or \"The Jews are killing us.\"\n\nMEMRI stands by their translation of the show, saying: \"Yes, we stand by the translation by the very words, by the context, by the syntax, and every measure of the translation.\"\n\nIn response to accusations of inaccuracies and distortion, Yigal Carmon, said:\n\nIn an email debate with Carmon, Whitaker asked about MEMRI's November 2000 translation of an interview given by the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem to Al-Ahram al-Arabi. One question asked by the interviewer was: \"How do you deal with the Jews who are besieging al-Aqsa and are scattered around it?\" which was translated as: \"How do you feel about the Jews?\" MEMRI cut out the first part of the reply and combined it with the answer to the next question, which, Whitaker claimed, made \"Arabs look more anti-Semitic than they are\". Carmon admitted this was an error in translation but defended combining the two replies, as both questions referred to the same subject. Carmon rejected other claims of distortion by Whitaker, saying: \"it is perhaps reassuring that you had to go back so far to find a mistake … You accused us of distortion by omission but when asked to provide examples of trends and views we have missed, you have failed to answer.\" Carmon also accused Whitaker of \"using insults rather than evidence\" in his criticism of MEMRI.\n\nWhitaker claims that although Memri's translations are usually accurate, they are selective and often out of context. He stated: \"When errors do occur, it's difficult to attribute them to incompetence or accidental lapses … there appears to be a political motive.\"\n\nMEMRI responds to criticism by saying that the media had a tendency to whitewash statements of Arab leaders, and regularly defends its translations as being representative of actual ME viewpoints, even when the translations themselves are disputed: \"MEMRI has never claimed to 'represent the view of the Arabic media', but rather to reflect, through our translations, general trends which are widespread and topical.\"\n\nJohn Lloyd has defended MEMRI in the \"New Statesman\":\n\nThomas L. Friedman, a political opinion columnist for \"The New York Times\", has praised MEMRI, and has credited MEMRI with helping to \"shine a spotlight on hate speech wherever it appears\". Friedman has written in \"The New York Times\" that \"what I respect about Memri is that it translates not only the ugly stuff but the courageous liberal, reformist Arab commentators as well.\" In addition, he has cited MEMRI's translations in his op-eds.\n\nBrit Hume of Fox News said, \"These people tell you what's going on in pulpits and in the state-controlled TV. If you have indoctrination, it's important to know about it.\"\n\nOne of MEMRI's strongest supporters is Jay Nordlinger, the managing editor of \"National Review\", who wrote in 2002:\n\nNordlinger also wrote:\n\nAccording to Nordlinger, one of MEMRI's early notable successes was its exposure of Muhammad al-Gamei'a. Al-Gamei'a had served as head of the Islamic Cultural Center of New York and as Al-Azhar University's representative to the United States and frequently participated in interreligious services. However, upon returning to Egypt in October 2001, Al-Gamei'a gave an interview to an Islamic website in which he stated, among other things, that Israel was responsible for 9/11 and that \"If it became known to the American people, they would have done to the Jews what Hitler did!\" and that \"[the Jews] are riding on the back of the world powers.\" MEMRI's translation of Al-Gamei'a's interview was later cited by \"The New York Times\", which hired two independent translators to confirm the MEMRI translation. Nordlinger wrote that MEMRI's work has \"never been found to be anything but honest, accurate, and meticulous\" and that because of MEMRI's work: \"the sheikh was exposed.\"\n\nMoreover, the Anne Frank Foundation lists MEMRI along the Nizkor project as \"websites with reliable information about Holocaust denial and Holocaust deniers\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60709", "title": "Penmanship", "text": "Penmanship\n\nPenmanship is the technique of writing with the hand using a writing instrument. Today, this is most commonly done with a pen, or pencil, but throughout history has included many different implements. The various generic and formal historical styles of writing are called \"hands\" while an individual's style of penmanship is referred to as \"handwriting\".\n\nThe earliest example of systematic writing is the Sumerian pictographic system found on clay tablets, which eventually developed around 3200 BC into a modified version called cuneiform which was impressed on wet clay with a sharpened reed. This form of writing eventually evolved into an ideographic system (where a sign represents an idea) and then to a syllabic system (where a sign represents a syllable). Developing around the same time, the Egyptian system of hieroglyphics also began as a pictographic script and evolved into a system of syllabic writing. Two cursive scripts were eventually created, hieratic, shortly after hieroglyphs were invented, and demotic (Egyptian) in the seventh century BC. Scribes wrote these scripts usually on papyrus, with ink on a reed pen.\n\nThe first known alphabetical system came from the Phoenicians, who developed a vowel-less system of 22 letters around the eleventh century BC. The Greeks eventually adapted the Phoenician alphabet around the eighth century BC. Adding vowels to the alphabet, dropping some consonants and altering the order, the Ancient Greeks developed a script which included only what we know of as capital Greek letters. The lowercase letters of Classical Greek were a later invention of the Middle Ages. The Phoenician alphabet also influenced the Hebrew and Aramaic scripts, which follow a vowel-less system. One Hebrew script was only used for religious literature and by a small community of Samaritans up until the sixth century BC. Aramaic was the official script of the Babylonian, Assyrian and Persian empires and ‘Square Hebrew’ (the script now used in Israel) developed from Aramaic around the third century AD.\n\nThe Romans in Southern Italy eventually adopted the Greek alphabet as modified by the Etruscans to develop Latin writing. Like the Greeks, the Romans employed stone, metal, clay, and papyrus as writing surfaces. Handwriting styles which were used to produce manuscripts included square capitals, rustic capitals, uncials, and half-uncials. Square capitals were employed for more-formal texts based on stone inscriptional letters, while rustic capitals freer, compressed, and efficient. Uncials were rounded capitals (majuscules) that originally were developed by the Greeks in the third century BC, but became popular in Latin manuscripts by the fourth century AD. Roman cursive or informal handwriting started out as a derivative of the capital letters, though the tendency to write quickly and efficiently made the letters less precise. Half-uncials (minuscules) were lowercase letters, which eventually became the national hand of Ireland. Other combinations of half-uncial and cursive handwriting developed throughout Europe, including Visigothic, and Merovingian.\n\nAt the end of the eighth century, Charlemagne decreed that all writings in his empire were to be written in a standard handwriting, which came to be known as Carolingian minuscule. Alcuin of York was commissioned by Charlemagne to create this new handwriting, which he did in collaboration with other scribes and based on the tradition of other Roman handwriting. Carolingian minuscule was used to produce many of the manuscripts from monasteries until the eleventh century and most lower-case letters of today's European scripts derive from it.\n\nGothic or black-letter script, evolved from Carolingian, became the dominant handwriting from the twelfth century until the Italian Renaissance (1400–1600 AD). This script was not as clear as the Carolingian, but instead was narrower, darker, and denser. Because of this, the dot above the \"i\" was added in order to differentiate it from the similar pen strokes of the \"n\", \"m\", and \"u\". Also, the letter \"u\" was created as separate from the \"v\", which had previously been used for both sounds. Part of the reason for such compact handwriting was to save space, since parchment was expensive. Gothic script, being the writing style of scribes in Germany when Gutenberg invented movable type, became the model for the first type face. Another variation of Carolingian minuscule was created by the Italian humanists in the fifteenth century, called by them \"littera antiqua\" and now called humanist minuscule. This was a combination of Roman capitals and the rounded version of Carolingian minuscule. A cursive form eventually developed, and it became increasingly slanted due to the quickness with which it could be written. This manuscript handwriting, called cursive humanistic, became known as the typeface Italic used throughout Europe.\n\nCopperplate engraving influenced handwriting as it allowed penmanship copybooks to be more widely printed. Copybooks first appeared in Italy around the sixteenth century; the earliest writing manuals were published by Sigismondo Fanti and Ludovico degli Arrighi. Other manuals were produced by Dutch and French writing masters later in the century, including Pierre Hamon. However, copybooks only became commonplace in England with the invention of copperplate engraving. Engraving could better produce the flourishes in handwritten script, which helped penmanship masters to produce beautiful examples for students. Some of these early penmanship manuals included those of Edward Cocker, John Seddon, and John Ayer. By the eighteenth century, schools were established to teach penmanship techniques from master penmen, especially in England and the United States. Penmanship became part of the curriculum in American schools by the early 1900s, rather than just reserved for specialty schools teaching adults penmanship as a professional skill. Several different penmanship methods have been developed and published, including Spencerian, Getty-Dubay, Barchowsky Fluent Handwriting, Icelandic (Italic), Zaner-Bloser, and D’Nealian methods among others used in American education.\n\nWriting systems developed in East Asia include Chinese and Japanese writing systems. Chinese characters represent whole morphemes rather than individual sounds, and consequently are visually far more complex than European scripts; in some cases their pictographic origins are still visible. The earliest form of Chinese was written on bones and shells (called Jiaguwen) in the fourteenth century BC. Other writing surfaces used during this time included bronze, stone, jade, pottery, and clay, which became more popular after the twelfth century BC. Greater Seal script (Dazhuan) flourished during 1100 BC and 700 BC and appeared mainly in bronze vessels. Lesser Seal script (Xiaozhuan) is the precursor of modern complex Chinese script, which is more stylized than the Greater Seal.\n\nChinese handwriting is considered an art, more so than illuminated manuscripts in Western culture. Calligraphy is widely practiced in China, which employs scripts such as Kaishu (standard), Xingshu (semi-cursive), and Caoshu (cursive). Chinese calligraphy is meant to represent the artistic personality in a way western calligraphy cannot, and therefore penmanship is valued higher than in any other nation. Standard Script (Kaishu) is main traditional script used today.\n\nJapanese writing evolved from Chinese script and Chinese characters, called kanji, or ideograms, were adopted to represent Japanese words and grammar. Kanji were simplified to create two other scripts, called hiragana and katakana. Hiragana is the more widely used script in Japan today, while katakana, meant for formal documents originally, is used similarly to italics in alphabetic scripts.\n\nPlatt Rogers Spencer is known as the \"Father of American Penmanship\". His writing system was first published in 1848, in his book \"Spencer and Rice's System of Business and Ladies' Penmanship\". The most popular Spencerian manual was \"The Spencerian Key to Practical Penmanship\", published by his sons in 1866. This \"Spencerian Method\" Ornamental Style was taught in American schools until the mid-1920s, and has seen a resurgence in recent years through charter schools and home schooling using revised Spencerian books and methods produced by former IAMPETH president Michael Sull (born 1946).\n\nGeorge A. Gaskell (1845–1886), a student of Spencer, authored two popular books on penmanship, \"Gaskell's Complete Compendium of Elegant Writing\" and \"The Penman's Hand-Book\" (1883). Louis Henry Hausam published the \"New Education in Penmanship\" in 1908, called \"the greatest work of the kind ever published.\"\n\nMany copybooks were produced in North America at the start of the 20th century, mostly for Business Style penmanship (a simplified form of Ornamental Style). These included those produced by A. N. Palmer, a student of Gaskell, who developed the Palmer Method, as reflected in his \"Palmer's Guide to Business Writing\", published in 1894. Also popular was Zaner-Bloser Script, introduced by Charles Paxton Zaner (15 February 1864 – 1 December 1918) and Elmer Ward Bloser (6 November 1865 – 1929) of the Zanerian Business College. The A. N. Palmer Company folded in the early 1980s.\n\nModern Styles include more than 200 published textbook curricula including: D'Nealian Script (a derivative of the Palmer Method which uses a slanted, serifed manuscript form followed by an entirely joined and looped cursive), Modern Zaner-Bloser which accounts for the majority of handwriting textbook sales in the USA, A Beka, Schaffer, Peterson, Loops and Groups, McDougal, Steck Vaughn, and many others.\n\nItalic Styles include Getty-Dubay (slightly slanted), Eager, Portland, Barchowsky, Queensland, etc.\n\nOther copybook styles that are unique and do not fall into any previous categories are Smithhand, Handwriting without Tears, Ausgangsschrift, Bob Jones, etc. these may differ greatly from each other in a variety of ways.\nThe first made video for correcting messy handwriting especially for people with ADHD and or dysgraphia was \" Anyone Can Improve Their Own Handwriting\" by learning specialist Jason Mark Alster MS.c.\n\nBy the nineteenth century, attention was increasingly given to developing quality penmanship in Eastern schools. Countries which had a writing system based on logographs and syllabaries placed particular emphasis on form and quality when learning. These countries, such as China and Japan, have pictophonetic characters which are difficult to learn. Chinese children start by learning the most fundamental characters first and building to the more esoteric ones. Often, children trace the different strokes in the air along with the teacher and eventually start to write them on paper.\n\nIn the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, there have been more efforts to simplify these systems and standardize handwriting. For example, in China in 1955, in order to respond to illiteracy among people, the government introduced a Romanized version of Chinese script, called Pinyin. However, by the 1960s, people rebelled against the infringement upon traditional Chinese by foreign influences. This writing reform did not help illiteracy among peasants. Japanese also has simplified the Chinese characters it uses into scripts called kana. However kanji are still used in preference over kana in many contexts, and a large part of children's schooling is learning kanji. Moreover, Japan has tried to hold on to handwriting as an art form while not compromising the more modern emphasis on speed and efficiency. In the early 1940s, handwriting was taught twice, once as calligraphy in the art section of school curricula, and then again as a functional skill in the language section. The practical function of penmanship in Japan did not start to be questioned until the end of the twentieth century; while typewriters proved more efficient than penmanship in the modern West, these technologies had a hard time transferring to Japan, since the thousands of characters involved in the language made typing unfeasible.\n\nHandwriting requires the motor coordination of multiple joints in the hand, wrist, elbow, and shoulder to form letters and to arrange them on the page. Holding the pen and guiding it across paper depends mostly upon sensory information from skin, joints and muscles of the hand and this adjusts movement to changes in the friction between pen and paper. With practice and familiarity, handwriting becomes highly automated using motor programs stored in motor memory. Compared to other complex motor skills handwriting is far less dependent on a moment-to-moment visual guidance.\n\nResearch in individuals with complete peripheral deafferentation with and without vision of their writing hand finds increase of number of pen touches, increase in number of inversions in velocity, decrease of mean stroke frequency and longer writing movement duration. The changes show that cutaneous and proprioceptive feedback play a critical role in updating the motor memories and internal models that underlie handwriting. In contrast, sight provides only a secondary role in adjusting motor commands.\n\n\nTypes of writing\n\nStudies of writing and penmanship\n\nPenmanship-related professions\n\nOther penmanship-related topics\n\n"}
{"id": "25731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25731", "title": "Real Irish Republican Army", "text": "Real Irish Republican Army\n\nThe Real Irish Republican Army or Real IRA (RIRA), also called the New IRA (NIRA) since 2012, is a dissident Irish republican paramilitary group and internationally-designated terrorist organization which aims to bring about a united Ireland. It formed in 1997 following a split in the Provisional IRA by dissident members, who rejected the IRA's ceasefire that year. Like the Provisional IRA before it, the RIRA sees itself as the only rightful successor to the original Irish Republican Army and styles itself as \"the Real Irish Republican Army\" in English or \"Óglaigh na hÉireann\" in Irish. It is an illegal organisation in the Republic of Ireland and designated as proscribed terrorist organisation in the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nSince its formation, RIRA has waged a campaign in Northern Ireland against the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI)—formerly the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC)—and the British Army. The RIRA is the largest and most active of the \"dissident republican\" paramilitary groups operating against the British security forces since the Provisional IRA signed the Good Friday Agreement in 1998. It has targeted the security forces in gun attacks and bombings, and with grenades, mortars and rockets. The organisation has also been responsible for bombings in Northern Ireland and England with the goal of causing economic harm and/or disruption. The most notable of these was the 1998 Omagh bombing, which killed 29 people. After that bombing the RIRA went on ceasefire, but began operations again in 2000. In March 2009 it claimed responsibility for an attack on Massereene Barracks which killed two British soldiers, the first to be killed in Northern Ireland since 1997.\n\nThe Real IRA has also been involved in vigilantism, mainly against drug dealers and organised crime gangs. In Dublin in particular it has been accused of extortion and engaging in feuds with these gangs. In July 2012 it was reported that Republican Action Against Drugs (RAAD) and other small republican militant groups were merging with the Real IRA. This new entity was named the New IRA by the media, but members continue to identify themselves as simply \"the Irish Republican Army\".\n\nIn July 1997 the Provisional IRA called a ceasefire. On 10 October 1997 a Provisional IRA General Army Convention was held in Falcarragh, County Donegal. At the convention, Provisional IRA Quartermaster General Michael McKevitt—also a member of the 12-person Provisional IRA Executive—denounced the leadership and called for an end to the group's ceasefire and to its participation in the Northern Ireland peace process. He was backed by his partner and fellow Executive member Bernadette Sands McKevitt. The two dissidents were outmanoeuvred by the leadership and were left isolated. The convention backed the pro-ceasefire line, and on 26 October McKevitt and Sands McKevitt resigned from the Executive along with other members.\n\nIn November 1997 McKevitt and other dissidents held a meeting in a farmhouse in Oldcastle, County Meath, and a new organisation, styling itself \"Óglaigh na hÉireann\", was formed. The organisation attracted disaffected Provisional IRA members from Derry and the republican stronghold of South Armagh, as well as Dublin and Belfast cities and Counties Limerick, Tipperary, Louth, Tyrone, Monaghan and Kerry.\n\nThe name \"Real IRA\" entered common usage when in early 1998 members set up a roadblock in Jonesborough, County Armagh and told motorists \"We're from the IRA. The \"real\" IRA\".\n\nThe RIRA's objective is a united Ireland by forcing the end of British sovereignty over Northern Ireland through the use of physical force. The organisation rejects the Mitchell Principles and the Good Friday Agreement, comparing the latter to the 1921 Anglo-Irish Treaty which resulted in the partition of Ireland. The organisation aims to uphold an uncompromising form of Irish republicanism and opposes any political settlement that falls short of Irish unity and independence.\n\nBernadette Sands McKevitt, sister of hunger striker Bobby Sands and a founder of the RIRA's political wing, the 32 County Sovereignty Movement, said in an interview that her brother \"did not die for cross-border bodies with executive powers. He did not die for nationalists to be equal British citizens within the Northern Ireland state\". The RIRA adopted a tactic of bombing town centres to damage the economic infrastructure of Northern Ireland. The organisation also attacks members of the security forces using land mines, home-made mortars and car bombs, and has also targeted England using incendiary devices and car bombs to \"spread terror and disruption\".\n\nThe organization's first action was an attempted bombing in Banbridge, County Down on 7 January 1998. The intention was to explode a car bomb, but this was thwarted when the bomb was defused by security forces. The RIRA continued its campaign in late February with bombings in Moira, County Down and Portadown, County Armagh. On 9 May the organisation announced its existence, in a coded telephone call to Belfast media claiming responsibility for a mortar attack on a police station in Belleek, County Fermanagh.\n\nRIRA member Ronan Mac Lochlainn, a native of County Dublin, was shot dead by Gardaí during an attempted robbery of a security van in County Wicklow, Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe RIRA also carried out attacks in Newtownhamilton and Newry, and a second attack in Banbridge on 1 August injured 35 people and caused £3.5 million of damage when a car bomb exploded. Despite these attacks the organisation lacked a significant base and was heavily infiltrated by informers. This led to a series of high-profile arrests and seizures by the Garda Síochána in the first half of 1998; these involved the death of RIRA member Rónán Mac Lochlainn who was shot dead trying to escape from police, following an attempted robbery of a security van in County Wicklow.\n\nOn 15 August 1998 the RIRA left a car containing 500 lb of home-made explosives in the centre of Omagh, County Tyrone. The bombers could not find a parking space near the intended target of the courthouse, and the car was left 400 metres away. As a result, three inaccurate telephone warnings were issued, and the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) believed the bomb was located outside the courthouse. They attempted to establish a security cordon to keep civilians clear of the area, which inadvertently pushed people closer to the location of the bomb. Shortly after, the bomb exploded killing 29 people and injuring 220 others, in what became the single deadliest strike of the Troubles.\n\nThe bombing caused a major outcry throughout the world, and the Irish and British governments introduced new legislation in an attempt to destroy the organisation. The RIRA also came under pressure from the Provisional IRA, when Provisional IRA members visited the homes of 60 people connected with the RIRA and ordered them to disband and stop interfering with Provisional IRA arms dumps. With the organisation under intense pressure, which included McKevitt and Sands-McKevitt being forced from their home after the media named McKevitt in connection with the bombing, the RIRA called a ceasefire on 8 September.\n\nFollowing the declaration of the ceasefire the RIRA began to regroup, and by the end of October had elected a new leadership and were planning their future direction. In late December Irish government representative Martin Mansergh held a meeting with McKevitt in Dundalk, in an attempt to convince McKevitt to disband the RIRA. McKevitt refused, stating that members would be left defenceless to attacks by the Provisional IRA. In 1999 the RIRA began preparations for a renewed campaign, and in May three members travelled to Split in Croatia to purchase arms, which were smuggled back to Ireland. On 20 October, ten people were arrested when Gardaí raided a RIRA training camp near Stamullen, County Meath.\n\nOfficers found a firing range inside a disused wine cellar being used as an underground bunker, and seized weapons including an assault rifle, a submachine gun, a semi-automatic pistol and an RPG-18 rocket launcher. An earlier version of the rocket launcher, the RPG-7, had been in the possession of the Provisional IRA from as early as 1972, but this was the first time the RPG-18 had been found in the possession of a paramilitary organisation in Ireland. Among those convicted were Alan Ryan, who was on bail for possession of a loaded revolver at his home in Dublin.\n\nOn 20 January 2000 the RIRA issued a call-to-arms in a statement to the \"Irish News\". The statement condemned the Northern Ireland Executive, and stated: \"Once again, Óglaigh na hÉireann declares the right of the Irish people to the ownership of Ireland. We call on all volunteers loyal to the Irish Republic to unite to uphold the Republic and establish a permanent national parliament representative of all the people.\" The RIRA launched its new campaign on 25 February with an attempted bombing of Shackleton Army Barracks in Ballykelly. The bombers were disturbed as they were assembling the device, which would have caused mass murder if detonated, according to soldiers.\n\nOn 29 February a rocket launcher similar to one seized in the 1999 raid was found near an army base in Dungannon, County Tyrone, and on 15 March three men were arrested following the discovery of 500 lb of home-made explosives when the RUC searched two cars in Hillsborough, County Down. On 6 April a bomb attack took place at Ebrington Barracks in Derry. RIRA members lowered a device consisting of 5 lb of homemade explosives over the perimeter fence using ropes, and the bomb subsequently exploded damaging the fence and an unmanned guardhouse.\n\nAfter the Omagh bombing, the RIRA leadership were unwilling to launch a full-scale campaign in Northern Ireland due to the possibility of civilians being killed. Instead they decided to launch a series of attacks in England, in particular London, which they hoped would attract disenchanted Provisional IRA members to join the RIRA. On 1 June 2000 a bomb damaged Hammersmith Bridge; a symbolic target for Irish republican paramilitary groups. The bridge had been targeted by the Irish Republican Army on 29 March 1939 as part of its Sabotage Campaign, and by the Provisional IRA on 24 April 1996.\n\nOn 19 July, security forces carried out a controlled explosion on a bomb left at Ealing Broadway station and public transport was disrupted when the Metropolitan Police closed Victoria and Paddington train stations and halted services on the London Underground. On 21 September a rocket-propelled grenade was fired at the MI6 headquarters using an RPG-22 rocket launcher, which generated headlines around the world. In November 2000, security forces foiled a plot to drive 500 lb of homemade explosives to central London that month, a bomb twice as powerful as the one in Omagh. At the time police were warning for weeks that a terrorist attack in London could be imminent.\n\nOn 21 February 2001 a bomb disguised as a torch left outside a Territorial Army base in Shepherd's Bush seriously injured a 14-year-old cadet, who was blinded and had his hand blown off. A second attack in Shepherd's Bush, the 4 March BBC bombing, injured a civilian outside the BBC Television Centre. The explosion was captured by a BBC cameraman, and the footage was broadcast on TV stations worldwide, and gained mass publicity for the group. On 14 April a bomb exploded at a postal sorting office in Hendon, causing minor damage but no injuries. Three weeks later on 6 May a second bomb exploded at the same building, causing slight injuries to a passer-by. The 3 August 2001 Ealing bombing injured seven people, and on 3 November a car bomb containing 60 lb of home-made explosives was planted in the centre of Birmingham. The bomb did not fully detonate and no one was injured.\n\nThe successful attack on Hammersmith Bridge encouraged the RIRA leadership to launch further attacks in Northern Ireland. On 19 June 2000 a bomb was found in the grounds of Hillsborough Castle, home of Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Peter Mandelson. On 30 June a bomb exploded on the Dublin-to-Belfast railway line near the village of Meigh in County Armagh. The explosion damaged the tracks, and caused disruption to train services. On 9 July a car bomb damaged buildings in Stewartstown, County Tyrone including an RUC station, and on 10 August an attack in Derry was thwarted by the RUC after a van containing a 500 lb bomb failed to stop at a police checkpoint. Following a car chase the bombers escaped across the Irish border, and the Irish Army carried out a controlled explosion on the bomb after the van was found abandoned in County Donegal.\n\nOn 13 September 2000, two 80 lb bombs were planted at the Magilligan army camp in County Londonderry, one of which was planted in a wooden hut and partially exploded when a soldier opened the door to the hut. The second bomb was found during a follow-up search and made safe by bomb disposal experts. On 11 November the RUC and British Army prevented a mortar attack after stopping a van near Derrylin, County Fermanagh, and the RUC prevented a further attack on 13 January 2001 when an 1100 lb bomb was found in Armagh — the largest bomb found in several years according to the RUC.\n\nOn 23 January the RIRA attacked Ebrington Army Barracks in Derry for a second time, firing a mortar over a perimeter fence. A mortar similar to the one used in the attack was found by Gardaí near Newtowncunningham on 13 February, and British army bomb disposal experts made safe another mortar found between Dungannon and Carrickmore on 12 April. On 1 August a 40 lb bomb was discovered in a car at the long-stay car park of Belfast International Airport following a telephone warning, and was made safe with two controlled explosions by bomb disposal experts. In December a six-day security operation ended when a 70 lb bomb found under railway tracks at Killeen Bridge near Newry was defused. The operation began following telephone warnings, and the road and railway line connecting Newry to Dundalk were closed due to security alerts.\n\nA pipe bomb was discovered at a police officer's home in Annalong, County Down on 3 January 2002, and two teenage boys were injured in County Armagh on 2 March when a bomb hidden in a traffic cone exploded. On 29 March 2002 the RIRA targeted a former member of the Royal Irish Regiment from Sion Mills, County Tyrone, with a bomb attached to his car that failed to explode. On 1 August 2002 a civilian worker was killed by an explosion at a Territorial Army base in Derry. The man, a 51-year-old former member of the Ulster Defence Regiment, was the thirtieth person killed by the RIRA.\n\nDespite the RIRA's renewed activity, the organisation was weakened by the arrest of key members and continued infiltration by informers. McKevitt was arrested on 29 March 2001 and charged with membership of an illegal organisation and directing terrorism, and remanded into custody. In July 2001, following the arrests of McKevitt and other RIRA members, British and Irish government sources hinted that the organisation was now in disarray. Other key figures were jailed, including the RIRA's Director of Operations, Liam Campbell, who was convicted of membership of an illegal organisation, and Colm Murphy who was convicted of conspiring to cause the Omagh bombing, although this conviction was overturned on appeal.\n\nOn 10 April 2002 Ruairi Convey, from Donaghmede, Dublin, was jailed for three years for membership of the RIRA. During a search of his home a list of names and home addresses of members of the Gardaí's Emergency Response Unit was found. Five RIRA members were also convicted in connection with the 2001 bombing campaign in England, and received sentences varying from 16 years to 22 years' imprisonment. In October 2002, McKevitt and other RIRA members imprisoned in Portlaoise Prison issued a statement calling for the organisation to stand down. After a two-month trial, McKevitt was sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment in August 2003 after being convicted of directing terrorism.\n\nAfter McKevitt's imprisonment, the RIRA regrouped. The RIRA claimed responsibility for a series of firebomb attacks against premises in Belfast in November 2004, and an attack on a Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) patrol in Ballymena during March 2006 was attributed to the RIRA by the Independent Monitoring Commission (IMC). On 9 August 2006, fire bomb attacks by the RIRA hit businesses in Newry, County Down. Buildings belonging to JJB Sports and Carpetright were destroyed, and ones belonging to MFI and TK Maxx were badly damaged. On 27 October 2006, a large amount of explosives was found in Kilbranish, Mount Leinster, County Carlow by police, who believe the RIRA were trying to derail the peace process with a bomb attack. The IMC believe the RIRA were also responsible for a failed mortar attack on Craigavon PSNI Station on 4 December 2006. The IMC's October 2006 report stated that the RIRA remains \"active and dangerous\" and that it seeks to \"sustain its position as a terrorist organisation\". The RIRA has stated it has no intention of calling a ceasefire unless a declaration of intent to withdraw from Northern Ireland is made by the British Government.\n\nIn a lengthy interview with \"An Phoblacht\" newspaper in 2003, the leadership of the Provisional IRA said that the RIRA had \"no coherent strategy\".\n\nThe Real IRA were suspected of complicity in the murder in December 2006 of drug-dealer Martin 'Marlo' Hyland. Hyland was shot dead at his Dublin home, along with a plumber, Anthony Campbell, who was carrying out work at the house. The organisation was embroiled in a feud with Hyland's gang at the time.\n\nOn 8 November 2007 two RIRA members shot an off-duty PSNI officer as he sat in his car on Bishop Street in Derry, causing injuries to his face and arm. On 12 November another PSNI member was shot by RIRA members in Dungannon, County Tyrone. On 7 February 2008, the RIRA stated that, after experiencing a three-year period of reorganisation, it intended to \"go back to war\" by launching a new offensive against \"legitimate targets\". It also, despite having apologised for the Omagh bombing, denied any large scale involvement with the attack and said that their part had only gone as far as their codeword being used. On 12 May 2008 the RIRA seriously injured a member of the PSNI when a booby trap bomb exploded underneath his car near Spamount, County Tyrone. On 25 September 2008 the RIRA shot a man in the neck in St Johnston, near the Derry border. The same man was targeted in a pipe bomb attack on his home on 25 October, the RIRA did not claim responsibility for the attack, but security forces believe they were responsible for it.\n\nOn 7 March 2009 the RIRA claimed responsibility for the 2009 Massereene Barracks shooting. This shooting occurred outside the Massereene Barracks as four soldiers were receiving a pizza delivery. Two soldiers were killed, and the other two soldiers and two deliverymen were injured. On 3 April 2009 the RIRA in Derry claimed responsibility for carrying out a punishment shooting of a man who was awaiting sentencing for raping a 15-year-old girl. The RIRA were also blamed for orchestrating rioting in the Ardoyne area of Belfast on 13 July 2009 as an Apprentice Boys parade was passing. Several PSNI officers were injured in the rioting and at least one shot was fired at police. In early November, the Independent Monitoring Commission released a report stating that the threat from the RIRA and other dissident republicans was at its most serious level since the 1998 Good Friday Agreement.\n\nWhen drug dealer Sean Winters was shot dead in Portmarnock, north Dublin in September 2010, the Real IRA \"emerged as the chief suspects\". They were also suspected of shooting dead drugs gang leader Michael Kelly in Coolock in September 2011.\n\nOn 5 October 2010, a car bomb exploded outside a branch of the Ulster Bank on Culmore Road in Derry. Two police officers were slightly injured in the blast, which also damaged a hotel and other businesses. Several telephone warnings were received an hour prior to the blast allowing police to cordon off the area. The RIRA later claimed responsibility in a telephone call to the \"Derry Journal\".\n\nA large Real IRA explosives dump and arms cache were discovered in Dunleer, County Louth by Gardaí in October 2010, following a weekend of searches and arrests in the east of the country. In addition, two Real IRA men were charged in Dublin's non-jury Special Criminal Court of membership of an illegal organisation. The Real IRA claimed responsibility for kidnapping and shooting dead of one of their members, Kieran Doherty, for alleged drug dealing.\n\nFurther significant seizures of the groups arms and explosives would be make made by the Gardaí during 2012 and 2013, leading to the arrest of over a dozen persons. In 2011 Michael Campbell, brother of Liam, was found guilty in Vilnius, Lithuania, of trying to purchase arms and explosives and was sentenced to twelve years in prison. In October 2013 Campbell was freed on appeal, only to have the Supreme Court of Lithuania order a retrial in June 2014. Campbell has maintained his innocence, accusing British intelligence of attempting to frame him.\n\nOn 26 July 2012, it was reported that Republican Action Against Drugs (RAAD) and other small republican militant groups were merging with the Real IRA. As before, the group would continue to refer to itself as \"the Irish Republican Army\", though some media began to refer to the group as a \"new IRA\".\n\nAs well as RAAD, the alliance includes an east Tyrone group thought to be responsible for killing PSNI officer Ronan Kerr in 2011, and a Belfast group who badly wounded PSNI officer Peadar Heffron in 2010. The Continuity IRA, and the group often referred to as Óglaigh na hÉireann (ONH), remain independent. The PSNI reckoned that the new group has a membership of \"between 250 and 300 military activists, backed up by associates\". In November 2012 it claimed responsibility for shooting dead a Prison Officer near Lurgan, the first prison officer to be killed since 1993.\n\nOn 3 September 2012 prominent New IRA (former RIRA) member Alan Ryan was shot dead in Dublin. Gardaí believed he had been involved in a feud with major crime gangs from whom he was trying to extort money. Following Ryan's death an internal feud developed in the Real IRA section of the NIRA. Ryan's replacement as leader and another associate were shot and wounded in November 2012, allegedly on the orders of the Northern leadership. In March 2013, another prominent former Real IRA member, Peter Butterly from Dunleer, was shot dead; three Dublin men, allegedly from the Alan Ryan faction, were charged with his murder and IRA membership.\n\nIn June 2013 Gardaí arrested eight people after a New IRA meeting and uncovered a massive haul of the plastic explosive Semtex in two raids in Dublin. In October 2013 the New IRA claimed responsibility for \"executing\" an alleged leading cocaine dealer in north Belfast.\n\nIn February 2014 the group sent seven letter bombs to British Army recruitment offices in south-east England; the first time republicans had struck in Britain since 2001. The following month, a PSNI landrover was hit by an explosively formed projectile in Belfast. A civilian car was also hit by debris, but there were no injuries. The Real IRA claimed responsibility. In November 2014, a PSNI armoured jeep was hit by another 'horizontal mortar' in Derry, and in Belfast a PSNI landrover was attacked with a homemade rocket-propelled grenade (RPG) launcher.\n\nIn April–May 2015, there were two New IRA bomb attacks in Derry. One exploded at the Probation Board offices, and two partially exploded at the perimeter fence of a British Army Reserve base. Later in May, four men, one an alleged associate of Real IRA leader Michael McKevitt, were reportedly arrested during an explosives seizure by police in Northern Ireland. In August, a firebomb exploded in a post van parked inside Palace Barracks, Holywood, a British military base which is home to MI5 in Northern Ireland. The firebomb destroyed the van and set nearby vehicles and garages on fire. On Halloween morning, three men were arrested and charged with IRA membership in addition to firearm offences. In November, a PSNI vehicle in Belfast was riddled with automatic gunfire, fired from an AK-47. On Christmas Day in North Belfast, police came under fire again but were not injured. The attacker was charged with attempted murder. Days later, on 27 November 2015, police in West Belfast came under heavy fire yet again. No officers were wounded because of the armour-plating and bullet-proof glass. The Real IRA or another dissident Republican group was suspected to be behind the attack.\n\nOn 4 March 2016, a prison officer (Adrian Ismay) had a heart attack and died in a hospital. He had received serious wounds following a booby-trap bomb detonating under his van on Hillsborough Drive, East Belfast 11 days earlier. The wounds he received from the bombing were directly responsible for the heart attack that killed him. The New IRA claimed responsibility and said it was a response to the alleged mistreatment of republican prisoners at Maghaberry Prison. It added that the officer was targeted because he trained prison officers at Maghaberry.\n\nIn April 2016, Gardaí arrested two significant members of the New IRA and seized €10,000. In April 2016, explosives linked to the Real IRA were found in Dublin and several people were questioned by police. The Real IRA declared that all criminals were legitimate targets after Alan Ryan's brother, Vincent Ryan, was shot dead. In April 2016, the Real IRA were blamed for badly injuring a man in a punishment shooting in Derry, shortly after a man had been killed by a dissident Republican attack in Ardoyne. In May 2016 three men were shot in paramilitary style attacks in republican areas of Belfast during a 24-hour period, leaving two injured and one dead. On 25 April a Real IRA member, Michael Barr was shot dead in west Dublin. Gardaí suspected Barr was shot dead because it was believed by the Kinahan cartel he provided a \"safe house\" to one of the gunmen in the Regency Hotel attack. Fifteen people were arrested in Northern Ireland following a paramilitary funeral for him.\n\nOn 16 May 2016 a 'terrorist hide' was found by civilians in Capanagh Forest near Larne, Antrim, possibly belonging to the dissident republicans. It was a very substantial cache.\n\nIn June 2016 it was revealed that a five-man IRA hit team were in Dublin's north inner city looking to murder two leading gangsters after one of their associates was shot dead in a gangland feud. Sources said the murder squad from the North spent several days and nights looking for their targets in the streets. In September 2016 a close associate of Alan Ryan, who had been arrested and imprisoned following the Stamullen raid, was sentenced to nine years' imprisonment in Belfast for possession of a sub-machine gun and ammunition, after getting off a bus from Dublin.\n\nIn Cork City at 5pm on 7 December 2016, former Chief of Staff of the RIRA southern command, Aidan \"The Beast\" O'Driscoll, was shot and killed in the street by two masked gunmen. O'Driscoll had been shot in the leg in June 2013 in what the RIRA claimed was a punishment-style shooting for \"unrepublican conduct\" before he had stepped-down from command in 2012.\n\nOn 7 June 2017, Gardaí foiled a serious IRA bomb plot after discovering six kilos of Semtex, \"enough to blow up a street\".\n\nOn 1 September 2017, the Police Service of Northern Ireland warned that the group had developed a new type of bomb.\n\nIn December 2017, MI5 said that Northern Ireland has the highest level of terrorist activity of anywhere in Europe with attacks being disrupted weekly. Over 250 seizures, thwarted attacks, and counter-terrorist operations are reported to have been undertaken by British security services.\n\nThe group remain active in 2018, with it and the Continuity IRA claiming they have no plans to announce a ceasefire along the lines of that of the ONH. However, both groups have suffered major setbacks and inactivity due to feuding and heavy police intervention, and have likewise often failed to commit successful attacks due to antiquated equipment and member inexperience.\n\nIn July 2018 the New IRA claimed responsibility for a spate of gun and bomb attacks at police officers during the riots in Derry.\n\nThe RIRA has a command structure similar to the Provisional IRA, with a seven-member Army Council consisting of a chief of staff, quartermaster general, director of training, director of operations, director of finance, director of publicity, and adjutant general. The rank-and-file members operate in active service units of covert cells to prevent the organisation from being compromised by informers. As of June 2005, the organisation is believed to have a maximum of about 150 members, according to a statement by the Irish Minister for Justice, Equality and Law Reform, Michael McDowell.\n\nThe RIRA also has a political wing, the 32 County Sovereignty Movement (formerly the 32 County Sovereignty Committee), led by Francis Mackey. The RIRA is distinct from the Continuity IRA, another Provisional IRA splinter group founded in 1986, although the two groups have been known to co-operate at a local level. The Provisional IRA has been hostile to the RIRA and issued threats to RIRA members, and in October 2000 was alleged to be responsible for the fatal shooting of Belfast RIRA member Joe O'Connor according to O'Connor's family and 32 County Sovereignty Movement member Marian Price.\n\nOrganisations called \"Irish Republican Army\" are illegal in both UK law and Irish law; both proscriptions have been held to apply to the RIRA as to other groups of the name. Membership in the organisation is punishable by a sentence of up to ten years' imprisonment under UK law. In 2001 the United States government designated the RIRA as a \"Foreign Terrorist Organization\" (FTO). This makes it illegal for Americans to provide material support to the RIRA, requires American financial institutions to freeze the group's assets, and denies suspected RIRA members visas into the United States.\n\nIn 2014, \"Forbes\" magazine estimated the group's annual turnover at US$50 million. According to the police in Northern Ireland, the main sources of the Real IRA's funding are illegal fuel operations and various smuggling activities. Illicit cigarettes were also said to be a significant source of income for the group. There are also other significant sources of funding from the group, including funding from sympathisers based in the US and other countries.\n\nThe RIRA initially took small amounts of materiel from Provisional IRA arms dumps under the control of McKevitt and other former Provisional IRA members, including the plastic explosive Semtex, Uzi submachine guns, AK-47 and AK-74 assault rifles, handguns, shotguns, detonators and timing devices. The defection of senior Provisional IRA members also gave the RIRA the ability to manufacture home-made explosives and improvised mortars, including the Mark 15 mortar capable of firing a shell.\n\nIn 1999 the organisation supplemented its equipment by importing arms from Croatia, including military explosive TM500, CZ Model 25 submachine guns, modified AK-47 assault rifles with a folding stock, and RPG-18 and RPG-22 rocket launchers but a July 2000 attempt to smuggle a second consignment of arms was foiled by Croatian police, who seized seven RPG-18s, AK-47 assault rifles, detonators, ammunition, and twenty packs of TM500.\n\nIn 2001 RIRA members travelled to Slovakia to procure arms, and were caught in a sting operation by the British security agency MI5. The men attempted to purchase five tonnes of plastic explosives, 2,000 detonators, 500 handguns, 200 rocket-propelled-grenades, and also wire-guided missiles and sniper rifles. Three men from County Louth were arrested and extradited to the UK and subsequently imprisoned for 30 years each after pleading guilty to conspiring to cause explosions and other charges.\n\nIn June 2006, the PSNI made arrests following an MI5 sting operation targeting a dissident republican gun smuggling plot. The RIRA had attempted to procure arms from France including Semtex and C-4 plastic explosives, SA-7 surface-to-air missiles, AK-47s, rocket launchers, heavy machine guns, sniper rifles, pistols with silencers, anti-tank weapons and detonators. On 30 June 2010, two of those arrested were found guilty following a trial by judge in Belfast. On 1 October 2010 one man was sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment for attempting to import weapons and explosives, while the other was sentenced to 4 years' imprisonment for making a Portuguese property available for the purpose of terrorism.\n\n"}
{"id": "46258334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46258334", "title": "Resource Network for Linguistic Diversity", "text": "Resource Network for Linguistic Diversity\n\nThe Resource Network for Linguistic Diversity (RNLD) is an international non-profit organisation which was established to advance the sustainability of the world's Indigenous languages. RNLD was founded in 2004 by linguists Margaret Florey and Nicholas Thieberger as a resource organisation aiming to support linguistic diversity by offering a range of training programs, facilitating networking between language maintenance practitioners, and maintaining a website with various practical resources. RNLD (Inc.) is incorporated in Victoria, Australia, and is registered as a tax-exempt organisation. Funded activities by RNLD are primarily supported by the Indigenous Languages Support (ILS) grant scheme from the Government of Australia.\n\nThe Resource Network for Linguistic Diversity states the following mission on the organisation website:\n\n\"RNLD's mission is to advance the sustainability of Indigenous languages and to increase the participation of Indigenous peoples in all aspects of language documentation and revitalisation through training, resource sharing, networking, and advocacy. Through our activities, we contribute to the holistic health and wellbeing of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities by providing direct relief from the suffering and distress that arises from the loss of Indigenous languages and the consequent alienation from cultural heritage and Indigenous identity.\"\n\nRNLD provides a range of resources to support language documentation and revitalisation activities. These include information about national and international funding opportunities for language work, links to blogs and networks including the active RNLD email discussion list, and other resources for language documentation and revitalisation such as information about software, language materials, language centres, equipment for language work, orthography development, data management, training programs, and language documentation projects.\n"}
{"id": "6463575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6463575", "title": "Roman-Dutch law", "text": "Roman-Dutch law\n\nRoman-Dutch law (Dutch: \"Rooms-Hollands recht\", Afrikaans: \"Romeins-Hollandse reg\") is an uncodified, scholarship-driven, judge-made legal system based on Roman law as applied in the Netherlands in the 17th and 18th centuries. As such, it is a variety of the European continental civil law or \"ius commune\". While Roman-Dutch law was superseded by Napoleonic codal law in the Netherlands proper as early as the beginning of the 19th century, Roman-Dutch law is still applied by the courts of South Africa (and its neighbours Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe), Guyana, Indonesia, East Timor, and Sri Lanka. It was largely drawn upon by Scots law. It also had some minor impact on the laws of the American state of New York, especially in introducing the office of Prosecutor (\"schout-fiscaal\").\n\nRoman law was progressively abandoned during the early Middle Ages. The Theodosian Code and excerpts of latter-day imperial enactments (\"constitutiones\") were well known in the successor Germanic states and vital to maintaining the commonplace principle of folk-right which applied pre-existing Roman law to Roman provincials and Germanic law to Germans. The \"Breviary of Alaric\" and the \"Lex Gundobada Romana\" are two of the several hybrid Romano-Germanic law codes that incorporated much Roman legal material. However, because the fall of the Western Roman Empire preceded the drafting of the Justinianic Code, early Byzantine law was never influential in Western Europe. Also, much of this early law was superseded by later feudal law. Only canon law successfully retained any substantial amount of Roman law to be influential.\n\nInterest in the doctrines of Byzantine lawyers came when—around the year 1070—a copy of the \"Digest\" of Emperor Justinian I found its way into northern Italy. Scholars in the emerging University of Bologna, who previously had access to only a limited portion of the Justinianic code, sparked an intellectual rediscovery of Roman law through the teaching of law based on Byzantine law texts. Courts gradually applied Byzantine law—as taught in Bologna (and soon elsewhere)—first as law \"in subsidium\" to be applied when there was no local statute or custom in point, and later because judicial officers (judges, magistrates, assessors) felt that its refined legal concepts were more apt to solve complex cases than the customary laws of western and central Europe. This process, referred to as reception, took place in the Holy Roman Empire and the Mediterranean in the 13th-14th centuries, but was much slower to come to northern Europe (e.g., Saxony, Northern France, the Low Countries, Scandinavia).\n\nIn the 15th century, reception \"in complexu\" reached the Netherlands while it was associated with the Holy Roman Empire. While Italian lawyers (\"mos italicus\") were the first to contribute to the new Byzantine-based jurisprudence, in the 16th century, French humanistic doctrinal scholars (\"mos gallicus\") were most influential. In the 17th and 18th century, it was the Dutch who had the greatest influence. Members of the \"Hollandse Elegante School\" (“school of elegant jurisprudence”; 1500–1800) included Hugo Grotius, Johannes Voet, Ulrich Huber, Gerard Noodt, J. and F. van de Sande, and many others. These scholars managed to merge Roman law with legal concepts taken from traditional Dutch feudal customary law, especially from the province of Holland. The resulting mixture was predominantly Roman, but it contained some features which were characteristically Dutch: this hybrid is known as Roman-Dutch law. The Dutch applied their legal system in their colonial empire. In so doing, the distinctly Dutch branch of civil law (or \"ius commune\") came to be applied in far-flung places, e.g., the Dutch East Indies, Dutch West Indies, Cape Colony, and Dutch Ceylon.\n\nIn the Netherlands, Roman-Dutch law abruptly ended when, in 1809, the Dutch puppet state—the Kingdom of Holland—adopted the French Napoleonic Code, a different system but nonetheless a branch of civil law. Yet, in the then-Dutch colonies, French law was never introduced during or after the Napoleonic era. As a result, Roman-Dutch law has managed to survive, usually in a hybrid form mixed with English law, otherwise known as “Anglo-Dutch law”.\n\nThe Netherlands participated in international seminars and training programmes organized by international partner organisations, ranging from a two-day seminar to a two-week programme for different legal professionals around the world. Programmes have been developed for Surinam, Aruba, Sint Maarten and Indonesia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1707203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1707203", "title": "Rural Housing Service", "text": "Rural Housing Service\n\nThe Rural Housing Service (RHS) is an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Located within the Department's Rural Development mission area. RHS operates a broad range of programs to provide moderate- low- and very-low-income Americans in rural communities with:\n\nRHS administers direct loans, loan guarantees and grants. Direct loans are made and serviced by USDA staff; loan guarantees are made to banks or other private lenders, and grants are made directly to a person or organization.\n\nRHS works with other federal agencies, and a number of both nonprofit and private organizations nationally, in order to pool resources to help America's rural residents most effectively.\n\nThe RHS National Office is located in Washington, D.C., and is responsible for setting policy, developing regulations, and performing oversight. In the field, RHS operations are carried out through the USDA's state and local Rural Development offices and service centers, several of which are located in each state and Puerto Rico. (Four multistate offices exist in addition to local offices within the states -- Vermont/New Hampshire; Massachusetts/Connecticut/Rhode Island; Maryland/Delaware; and Florida/Virgin Islands.) The Customer Service Center, located in St. Louis, Missouri, provides loan origination and servicing directly to RHS Single-Family Housing borrowers.\n\nFor all Rural Development programs, the rural area definition was revised by the 2014 Farm Bill. Specifically, the Farm Bill allows some areas with populations up to 35,000 to remain eligible until receipt of the 2020 decennial census. Effective February 2, 2015, areas with populations greater than 35,000 no longer qualify for Rural Housing Program assistance. Please see below for detailed definition:\nTo RHS, a rural area is either an open country or any town, village, city, or place, including the immediate adjacent densely settled area, which is not part of or associated with an urban area and which:\n\nAny area classified as ‘‘rural’’ or a ‘‘rural area’’ prior to October 1, 1990, and determined not to be ‘‘rural’’ or a ‘‘rural area’’ as a result of data received from or after the 1990, 2000, or 2010 decennial census, and any area deemed to be a ‘‘rural area’’ at any time during the period beginning January 1, 2000, and ending December 31, 2010, shall continue to be so classified until the receipt of data from the decennial census in the year 2020, if such area has a population in excess of 10,000 but not in excess of 35,000, is rural in character, and has a serious lack of mortgage credit for lower and moderate-income families.\n\nAn exception to the rural eligibility requirements is the Farm Labor Housing Program (Section 514/516), which is the only federal program available for development of housing for farm workers. This program is available in both rural and urban areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2381795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2381795", "title": "Seroglazovka culture", "text": "Seroglazovka culture\n\nThe Seroglazov culture (sometimes erroneously translated as \"Seroglazovka\", or \"Seroglasovo\" culture) is a mesolithic culture. Pernitzka dated it according to 14C-dating to the beginning of the 7th millennium BC, others (who?) to the 11th-9th millennium BC of the Caspian Lowland (by Caspian Sea), from Ural River to Kuma-Manych Depression. It was discovered during the archaeological excavations near the Seroglazovka (Сероглазовка) \"stanitsa\" (Cossack settlement).\n"}
{"id": "53512557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53512557", "title": "Six Flags Zhejiang", "text": "Six Flags Zhejiang\n\nSix Flags Zhejiang is an upcoming amusement park at Jiaxing, Zhejiang, China, owned by Six Flags. It will feature original rides and attractions, along with attractions themed around \"Garfield and Friends\" and \"Tuzki\". In addition to a theme park, the park will be accompanied by a Six Flags Hurricane Harbor water park.\n\nSix Flags will be located in Haiyan, on the coast of Hangzhou Bay. The park is approximately 45 miles from downtown Shanghai.\n\n\nOfficial website\n"}
{"id": "54140878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54140878", "title": "Statuette of a Woman (6th - 5th centuries BC, Ayrum)", "text": "Statuette of a Woman (6th - 5th centuries BC, Ayrum)\n\nStatuette of a Woman from the 6th to 5th centuries BC, is a bronze statue discovered in Ayrum, Armenia. It is included in the History Museum of Armenia's collection under the number 2225-1.\n\nThe figure is a miniature cast figure of a nude woman standing on the platform corner, with long legs, high hair, a flat face, and a large, straight nose. The eyes and ears are pronounced by round dimples. On her neck, she has on a thick necklace. Extended in her left hand, there is a pear-shaped jug, her right elbow is bent holding a drinking horn. Figures with forms of female deities, make use of temples for various ritual ceremonies. The nude female statuettes were linked with the ritual belief of fertility and incorporated with the goddess Anahit, who as a mother-goddess was also included in the Battle, fertility, and functions of the goddess of love, being the gardening, wheat, and patron goddess of animals.\n"}
{"id": "5125560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5125560", "title": "Switch-reference", "text": "Switch-reference\n\nIn linguistics, switch-reference (SR) describes any clause-level morpheme that signals whether certain prominent arguments in 'adjacent' clauses corefer. In most cases, it marks whether the subject of the verb in one clause is coreferent with that of the previous clause, or of a subordinate clause to the matrix (main) clause that is dominating it.\n\nThe basic distinction made by a switch-reference system is whether the following clause has the same subject (SS) or a different subject (DS). That is known as canonical switch-reference. For purposes of switch-reference, subject is defined as it is for languages with a nominative–accusative alignment: a subject is the sole argument of an intransitive clause or the agent of a transitive one. It holds even in languages with a high degree of ergativity. \n\nThe Washo language of California and Nevada exhibits a switch-reference system. When the subject of one verb is the same as the subject of the following verb, the verb takes no switch-reference marker. However, if the subject of one verb differs from the subject of the following verb, the verb takes the \"different subject\" marker, -š (examples from Mithun 1999:269):\n\nThe Seri language of northwestern Mexico also has a switch-reference system which is similar in most ways to those of other languages except for one very salient fact: the relevant argument in a passive clause is not the superficial subject of the passive verb but rather the always unexpressed underlying subject. In clauses with subject raising, it is the raised subject that is relevant.\n\nThe nominative subject is not always marked by switch-reference. For instance, many clauses, including those with impersonal or weather verbs, have no subject at all but can both bear and trigger switch-reference.\n\nIn addition, many languages exhibit non-canonical switch-reference, the co-referents of arguments other than the subject being marked by switch-reference. Here is an example from Kiowa (Watkins 1993):\n\nSwitch-reference markers often carry additional meanings or are at least fused with connectives that carry them. For instance, an switch-reference marker might mark a different subject and sequential events. \n\nSwitch-reference-markers often appear attached to verbs, but they are not a verbal category. They often appear attached to sentence-initial particles, sentence-initial recapitulative verbs, adverbial conjunctions ('when', 'because', etc.), or coordinators ('and' or 'but' though it seems never 'or'), relativizers ('which,'that'), or sentence complementizers ('that'). They can also appear as free morphemes or as differing agreement paradigms. However, most switch-reference languages are subject–object–verb languages, with verbs as well as complementizers and conjunctions coming at the end of clauses. Therefore, switch-reference often appears attached to verbs, a fact that has led to the common but erroneous claim that switch-reference is a verbal category.\n\nOne certain typological fact about switch-reference is that switch-reference markers appear at the 'edges' of clauses. It is found at the edge of either a subordinate clause (referring to the matrix clause) or at the edge of a coordinate clause (referring to the previous clause). It is also very common in clause-chaining languages of New Guinea, where it is found at the edge of medial clauses.\n\nSwitch-reference is also sensitive to syntactic structure. It can skip a clause that is string-adjacent (spoken one right after another) and refer to a matrix clause. For instance, in the configuration [A[B][C]], for which B and C are subordinate clauses to A, any switch-reference-marking on C refers to A, not B.\n\nIt is found in hundreds of languages in North America, South America, Australia, New Guinea, and the South Pacific. Typologies exist for North America (Jacobsen 1983), Australia (Austin 1981), and New Guinea (Roberts 1997). \n\nIt spreads generally by areal diffusion, which accounts for the fact that the morphological marking varies from one language to the next.\n\n"}
{"id": "18232942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18232942", "title": "Taima mandala", "text": "Taima mandala\n\nThe Taima Mandala (當麻曼荼羅,綴織当麻曼荼羅図) is a mandala in Japanese Pure Land Buddhism. The original copy of the mandala is still housed in the Taima-dera temple in Nara, Japan, and was woven c. 763. The mandala is appointed as a national treasure of Japan on April 27, 1961. Many copies have been made since, and the original work has degraded considerably. According to popular legend, Chūjō-hime witnessed the creation of the mandala, crafted from fibers of lotus stems by two nuns who were thought to be Amida Buddha (Buddha of Infinite Light) and Kannon Bodhisattva. The imagery of the Mandala is based mostly on the \"Sutra of the Contemplation of Amitayus\" 観無量寿経, and has been the subject of several doctrinal commentaries in Japanese Buddhism.\n\nThe central image is the Pure Land itself, while the left, right, and lower borders are lined with images from the Contemplation Sutra. The central image, called the Court of Essential Doctrine, depicts the Amida Buddha surrounded by his worshippers that have reached enlightenment, buildings, and the land that exists in his Paradise. At the top of the central image there are many figures floating in the sky on clouds. Each of these figures have the distinctive characteristic of a halo behind their heads. This detail is a signifier that each of them have achieved enlightenment. Alongside of them are various birds flying about, scarves floating in the air, and some lotus flowers. All the figures, scarves, and birds all float towards the center of the image.\n\nBelow the floating figures, in the center, near the top of the image, there are images of buildings that appear to look like temples or palaces floating in the sky, as well. These floating buildings lead down to what appears to be an indoor garden surrounded by more buildings, this time located to the ground. These buildings are designed after eighth-century Chinese Palaces. Each of these buildings, as well as the trees in the garden, are made of the seven precious substances–gold, silver, lapis lazuli, rock crystal, coral, agate, and mother-of-pearl.Throughout the palaces are more enlightened figures meditating.\n\nMost Chinese palaces are raised on a platform as their foundation. The structural beams are primarily used to support the roof of the building. They are connected to directly to each other due to the brackets. The walls are either curtained or door panels to define the rooms or to enclose the building. In the Taima, the buildings display a sweeping roof. This type of roof holds a sweeping curve that raises the corners of the roofs.\n\nIn the very center of this image is what appears to be a dock in the middle of a lotus pond. On this dock, there are three figures seated on lotus blossom thrones surrounded by many meditating enlightened figures. All three of these figures are bigger than the rest throughout the image, but the centered one is the largest of them all. The centered figure is known as Amida, the deity of the Western Paradise. The figure to each of his sides are known as bodhisattvas, people who have reached enlightenment, but stayed on earth to teach the ways of the Buddha to help others reach their enlightenment. These two figures are the bodhisattva Kannon and bodhisattva Seishi.\n\nSurrounding the middle dock holding Amida are several smaller docks, all connected to the centered dock, each holding more meditating figures. In the pond itself are boats and lotus flowers. Upon close examination, one can see many figures being born from the lotus flowers. These are people who have reached enlightenment and are being welcomed into the Western Paradise. The boats are there to bring the enlightened figures to land so they can continue their worship.\n\nThe left border (the Court of Prefatory Legend) shows, first, the discovery of the Sutra on Vulture Peak at the top, and then illustrates the introduction of the Sutra, from the bottom upward: Prince Ajasatru's temptation, the imprisonment of his father and then his mother, and Queen Vaidehi's prayers answered by Shakyamuni Buddha. Shakyamuni transmits the knowledge of the Pure Land to his disciple in the last panel, second from the top.\n\nQueen Vaidehi was given the task to meditate and visualize the elements that represented of the western paradise, illustrated in the right border. This is called Thirteen Meditational Contemplations (The Jozengzi). The elements are as shown:\n\n1. The Sun \n2. The Moon\n3. The Lapis Lazuli (Jeweled Realm of the Western Paradise)\n4. The Trees of Paradise\n5. The Lakes of Paradise\n6. The Multi-storied Jeweled Towers of Paradise\n7. Amida's Jeweled Lotus Throne\n8. The Amida Triad\n9. The Great Body of Amida\n10. Amida in Half-lotus Position\n11. The Bodhisattva Shishi\n12. Imagining oneself reborn in Paradise\n13. The Small Body of Amida\n\nThe bottom border illustrate the nine levels of birth. This is described as the Court of General Meditations (Sanzengi). This is an extension of the Thirteen Meditational Concentrations. The General Mediations are three levels of rebirth that are subdivided into three degrees (six births total). These births include from middle birth to upper degree to the upper birth of the lower degree (higher ranks closer to center of pond), and middle birth to lower degree and the lower birth of the lower degree (enclosed in the calyxes of lotus flowers further away from Amida). Surrounding the borders to the ends of the hanging scroll are designs of lotus flowers. Each lotus is painted with small and careful details to help make the images stand out. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27557109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27557109", "title": "The Accidental Billionaires", "text": "The Accidental Billionaires\n\nThe Accidental Billionaires: The Founding of Facebook, a Tale of Sex, Money, Genius, and Betrayal is a 2009 book by Ben Mezrich about the founding of Facebook, adapted by Columbia Pictures for the 2010 film \"The Social Network\". Co-founder Eduardo Saverin served as Mezrich's main consultant, although Mark Zuckerberg declined to speak with him while the book was being researched. After Zuckerberg and Saverin settled their lawsuit, Saverin broke off contact with the author.\n\nBen Mezrich maintains that the book is not a work of fiction despite his narrative style of writing. Some of his sources are his conversations with Facebook co-founder Eduardo Saverin and the court documents made available to him because of \"all these college kids suing each other.\"\n\nThe story begins in the weeks that precede the launch of \"thefacebook.com\" at Harvard. Eduardo Saverin, cast as the protagonist, has befriended Mark Zuckerberg, and both struggle for social acceptance—Saverin by joining a final club, Zuckerberg by creating a website where girls can be ranked according to their looks. Zuckerberg's stunt, though successful, puts him at odds with the Harvard Administrative Board, and has angered numerous campus women's groups as well as individual female students. An article on the incident in the Harvard Crimson is noticed by three Harvard seniors: twin brothers Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and Divya Narendra, all of whom who are trying to launch a Harvard dating site. The trio approaches Zuckerberg, convincing him to join in the venture. Zuckerberg, however, feels their site does not have what he thinks is the right approach and begins developing thefacebook with financial help from Saverin and programming from Zuckerberg's roommates.\n\nOnce thefacebook.com is launched it becomes an immediate hit on campus. After discovering what Zuckerberg has done, the Winklevoss' and Narendra are infuriated and seek legal advice from their father's lawyer. The story then chronicles the changing relationship between Saverin and Zuckerberg, who have different visions for thefacebook.\n\nWhile the first half of the book centers on the Harvard University campus and focuses on college life, the second half centers on the business end of thefacebook and Zuckerberg's move to Silicon Valley. Napster creator Sean Parker inserts himself into Zuckerberg's life, soon becoming a mentor to Zuckerberg who guides him to Silicon Valley venture capitalists and other players in the industry. Saverin, having graduated from Harvard, continues to feel sidelined by Parker, who he feels is not the best influence on Zuckerberg and is replacing him in importance to the advancement of thefacebook.\n\nThe end of the book does not provide a conclusion since, according to the author's admission, matters of dispute are ongoing in the court of law.\n\nColumbia Pictures released a film adaptation of the book in 2010 titled \"The Social Network\". Directed by David Fincher with the screenplay written by Aaron Sorkin, the film stars Jesse Eisenberg, Andrew Garfield, Armie Hammer, and Justin Timberlake. Sorkin's script won the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay.\n\n"}
{"id": "1780941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780941", "title": "The Hot Zone", "text": "The Hot Zone\n\nThe Hot Zone: A Terrifying True Story is a best-selling 1995 nonfiction thriller by Richard Preston about the origins and incidents involving viral hemorrhagic fevers, particularly ebolaviruses and marburgviruses. The basis of the book was Preston's 1992 \"New Yorker\" article \"Crisis in the Hot Zone\".\n\nThe filoviruses, Ebola virus, Sudan virus, Marburg virus, and Ravn virus are Biosafety Level 4 agents. Biosafety Level 4 agents are extremely dangerous to humans because they are very infectious, have a high case-fatality rate, and have no known prophylactics, treatments, or cures.\n\nAlong with describing the history of the diseases caused by these two Central African diseases, Ebola virus disease and Marburg virus disease, Preston described a 1989 incident in which a relative of Ebola virus, named Reston virus, was discovered at a primate quarantine facility in Reston, Virginia, less than 15 miles (24 km) away from Washington, D.C. The virus found at the facility was a mutated form of the original Ebola virus and was initially mistaken for Simian hemorrhagic fever. The original Reston facility involved in the incident, located at 1946 Isaac Newton Square, was subsequently demolished on 30 May 1995, and a new building was constructed in its place.\n\nThe book is in four sections:\n\n\nThe book starts with \"Charles Monet\" visiting Kitum Cave during a camping trip to Mount Elgon in Central Africa. Not long after, he begins to suffer from a number of symptoms, including vomiting, diarrhea and red eye. He is soon taken to Nairobi Hospital for treatment, but his condition deteriorates further and he goes into a coma while in the waiting room. This particular filovirus is called Marburg virus.\n\nDr. Nancy Jaax had been promoted to work in the Level 4 Biosafety containment area at the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, and is assigned to research Ebola virus. While preparing food for her family at home, she cuts her right hand. Later, while working on a dead monkey infected with Ebola virus, one of the gloves on the hand with the open wound tears, and she is almost exposed to contaminated blood, but does not get infected. Nurse Mayinga is also infected by a nun and elects to visit Nairobi Hospital for treatment, where she succumbs to the disease.\n\nIn Reston, Virginia, less than fifteen miles (24 km) away from Washington, D.C., a company called Hazelton Research once operated a quarantine center for monkeys that were destined for laboratories. In October 1989, when an unusually high number of their monkeys began to die, their veterinarian decided to send some samples to Fort Detrick (USAMRIID) for study. Early during the testing process in biosafety level 3, when one of the flasks appeared to be contaminated with harmless pseudomonas bacterium, two USAMRIID scientists exposed themselves to the virus by wafting the flask. They later determine that, while the virus is terrifyingly lethal to monkeys, humans can be infected with it without any health effects at all. This virus is now known as Reston virus.\n\nFinally, the author himself goes into Africa to explore Kitum Cave. On the way, he discusses the role of AIDS in the present, as the highway they were on, sometimes called the \"AIDS Highway\", or the \"Kinshasa Highway\", was where it first appeared. Equipped with a hazmat suit, he enters the cave and finds a large number of animals, one of which might be the virus carrier. At the conclusion of the book, he travels to the quarantine facility in Reston. He finds the building abandoned and deteriorating. He concludes the book by claiming that Ebola will be back.\n\nThe discovery of the Reston virus was made in November 1989 by Thomas W. Geisbert, an intern at United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases. Dr. Peter B. Jahrling isolated the filovirus further. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention conducted blood tests of the 178 animal handlers. While 6 tested positive, they did not exhibit any symptoms. The Reston virus was found to have low pathogenicity in humans. This was further supported later when a handler infected himself during a necroscopy of an infected monkey. However, the handler did not show symptoms of the virus after the incubation period.\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" was listed as one of around 100 books that shaped a century of science by \"American Scientist\". Listed as an “Exploration,” the criteria dictate that the book typically “seeks to engage with the context” elucidating the general topic rather than a specific nuance.\n\nMany reviews of \"The Hot Zone\" exemplify the impact the book had on the public’s view of emerging viruses. A review in the \"British Medical Journal\" captures the paranoia and public panic described in this book. The reviewer was left “wondering when and where this enigmatic agent will appear next and what other disasters may await human primates.” This can also be seen in a review in the \"Public Health Reports\" which highlights the “seriousness of our current situation” and “our ability to respond to a major health threat.”\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" has been criticized for exaggerating the threat of Ebola and causing viral panic. In an interview about his book about Ebola, David Quammen claimed that \"The Hot Zone\" had “vivid, gruesome details” that gave an “exaggerated idea of Ebola over the years” causing “people to view this disease as though it was some sort of preternatural phenomenon.”\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" is described as a “romantic account of environmental transgression.” Reactions to this book could be seen not only in the public’s view of emerging viruses, but in the changes in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In addition to the funding of public health infrastructure during the early 1970s, there were many public discussions of biodefense. This book continued to fuel the emerging diseases campaign. By connecting international health to national security, this campaign used \"The Hot Zone\" as a method of justifying increased intervention in the global phenomena of disease.\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" elicited a major response by the WHO by shedding light on the Ebola Zaire outbreak. The release of teams of experts was immediate and massive. Many countries tightened their borders, issued warnings to custom officials, quarantined travelers, and issued travel advisories.\n\nIn his blurb, horror writer Stephen King called the first chapter, \"one of the most horrifying things I've read in my whole life.\" When asked whether any book \"scared the pants off you\" writer Suzanne Collins answered, \"\"The Hot Zone\", by Richard Preston. I just read it a few weeks ago. Still recovering.\"\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" has received criticism for sensationalizing the effects of Ebola virus. In their memoir \"Level 4: Virus Hunters of the CDC\", former CDC scientists Joseph B. McCormick and Susan Fisher-Hoch lambasted Preston for claiming that Ebola dissolves organs, stating that although it causes great blood loss in tissues the organs remain structurally intact. McCormick and Fisher-Hoch also dispute Preston's version of the CDC's actions in the Reston virus incident.\n\nIn January 1993, 20th Century Fox and producer Lynda Obst won a bidding war for the film rights to Preston's 1992 \"New Yorker\" article, which was being transitioned into the book. In response to being outbid, Warner Bros. producer Arnold Kopelson immediately began working on the similarly themed \"Outbreak\", a competing film which would ultimately be a factor leading to the collapse of \"Crisis in The Hot Zone\".\n\nDirectors considered for the film adaptation included Wolfgang Petersen (who would later direct \"Outbreak\"), Michael Mann, and Ridley Scott. Scott eventually signed on to direct the film in February 1994. Screenwriter James V. Hart was also signed to adapt the book. In late-April 1994, Fox announced they had signed Robert Redford and Jodie Foster to star in the film.\n\nHowever, this version would ultimately not be made. Foster dropped out of the film just before filming was to begin and production was delayed with Meryl Streep, Sharon Stone, and Robin Wright touted as possible replacements. In August 1994, Redford also dropped out of the film. A few days following Redford's departure, it was announced that pre-production had been shut down.\n\nOn October 16, 2014, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" announced that Ridley Scott again plans to adapt the book, this time as a television miniseries for NatGeo. Kelly Souders, Brian Peterson, and Jeff Vintar wrote the pilot. Julianna Margulies is starring as Nancy Jaax. Filming begins in September 2018. Lynda Obst will again produce the series.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "1957643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957643", "title": "The Passion of the Jew", "text": "The Passion of the Jew\n\n\"The Passion of the Jew\" is the third episode of the eighth season and the 114th overall episode of the American animated series \"South Park\", originally broadcast on Comedy Central on March 31, 2004. It was written and directed by Trey Parker, who, along with fellow series co-creator Matt Stone, voiced most of the characters in the episode. \"The Passion of the Jew\" is a satirical critique of the media discourse and controversy surrounding Mel Gibson's 2004 film, \"The Passion of the Christ\".\n\nIn the episode, Kyle finally sees the blockbuster movie \"The Passion of the Christ\" and admits that Cartman has been right about the Jewish people all along. After Stan and Kenny see and hate the film, they angrily pursue Mel Gibson to get their money back.\n\nThe boys are playing \"Star Trek\" in Cartman's mother's new minivan and, as usual, the anti-Semitic Cartman gives Kyle a hard time about his Jewish heritage. Cartman dares Kyle to watch \"The Passion of the Christ\", the box-office success of which Cartman cites as proof that everybody hates the Jews. Kyle sees the film and is horrified by its violent depiction of how Jesus was tortured and crucified. Kyle feels intense guilt and has nightmares in which he and other Jews laugh while killing Jesus. He tells Cartman that he was \"right all along\" about the Jews; overjoyed, Cartman prays to a poster of \"The Passion\"'s director Mel Gibson and vows to dedicate his life to promoting the film and \"organiz[ing] the masses ... to do thy bidding\". Meanwhile, Stan and Kenny watch \"The Passion\" and hate it. Declaring it a \"snuff film\", they demand their eighteen dollars back from the theater, but are told that they can only get their money back from Gibson.\n\nAttempting to contact Gibson, Stan and Kenny telephone the head of the Mel Gibson Fan Club—Cartman, who yells at them for disliking the film, but lets slip that Gibson lives in Malibu. Stan and Kenny make their way there. Meanwhile Cartman dresses in a brown Hitler-esque uniform and hosts a fan club meeting in his backyard. The attendees have gathered to celebrate \"The Passion\", which they say helped them rediscover Christianity. Cartman suggests that each attendee take one more person to see the film before they begin what he refers to as \"the cleansing\"—the fan club members obliviously agree.\n\nWhen Stan and Kenny reach Gibson's house, the director rambles, straps himself to a rack wearing only underwear and says that no matter how much they torture him he will never refund their money. When the boys insist that they just want their money back, Gibson chases them around the house with a gun, à la \"Looney Tunes\", appearing behind doors as various versions of Daffy Duck's disguises. Stan and Kenny take eighteen dollars from Gibson's wallet (actually twenty dollars, but Kenny offers up two dollars for change) and flee on a bus home. Gibson, wearing face paint from \"Braveheart\", chases their bus in the tanker truck from \"Mad Max 2\", screaming \"Qapla'!\" and \"Gimme back my money!\" Back in South Park, Kyle talks to Father Maxi about his issues regarding Jesus and the guilt he has been feeling since seeing Gibson's film. Father Maxi points out that the Passion was originally a play used to stir up anti-Semitism, but says that its subject matter can still help people. Kyle seizes on Father Maxi's statement that \"Christianity is about atonement\" and says he now understands what he should do.\n\nAt another fan club rally outside the South Park theater, Cartman shouts hateful slogans in German and gives the attendees lines to shout back; mistaking the German for the Aramaic spoken in \"The Passion\", they happily do so and join Cartman in goose-stepping through South Park shouting anti-Semitic slogans. Meanwhile, Kyle suggests at his synagogue that the Jewish community should apologize for Jesus' crucifixion, prompting uproar in the congregation. The rabbi tries to calm the situation, saying \"we live in a rational community, and everybody knows this is just a movie\", but just then, Cartman and his parade pass the synagogue.\n\nHorrified, the rabbi and congregation go to the theater and demand that they stop showing \"The Passion\". Their argument with Cartman and his followers is interrupted by the arrival of the truck chase—Gibson crashes into the theater, destroying it. When he emerges unscathed, Cartman rushes to worship him, but Gibson ignores him and, rambling, first attempts one final time to force Stan and Kenny to give him his money back (which fails, as they refuse), and then smears his own excrement on a building, much to the astonishment of Kyle and the fan club members. Stan says that Christians should follow Jesus's teachings and not focus on how he died. The fans agree and disperse, much to Cartman's dismay. Kyle says he feels better about his Jewishness after hearing Stan's speech and seeing Gibson, who defecates on Cartman's face and runs off whooping.\n\n\"The New York Times\"' Virginia Heffernan praised the episode, writing \"Depending on whom you asked, that episode, 'The Passion of the Jew,' proved that the show's still got it or that it's made a comeback or that it's better than ever. In any case, it was good.\" It was also praised by the Anti-Defamation League and the Jewish newspaper \"The Jewish Daily Forward\", which called it \"perhaps the most biting critique of 'The Passion' to date.\"\n\nBesides appearing on the \"South Park\" complete eighth season DVD set, \"Passion of the Jew\" is also available as a standalone DVD release (which was released on DVD the same day that the DVD of the \"Passion of the Christ\" was released) with two bonus episodes: season six's \"Red Hot Catholic Love\" and season seven's \"Christian Rock Hard\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41502302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41502302", "title": "Timothy Lee Barnwell", "text": "Timothy Lee Barnwell\n\nTimothy Lee Barnwell (born February 17, 1955) is an American author, commercial photographer, and fine art photographer based in Asheville, NC. He has worked as a photojournalist and had images published in numerous publications including Time, Newsweek, Mother Jones, Billboard, LensWork, National Parks, American Craft, Astronomy, Outdoor Photographer, and B&W magazine. In 1981 he founded Appalachian Photographic Workshops and served as Director and photography instructor until in closed in 1988. He is the author of five books, The Face of Appalachia: Portraits from the Mountain Farm (W.W. Norton/NY, 2003); On Earth's Furrowed Brow: The Appalachian Farm in Photographs (W.W. Norton/NY, 2007); Hands in Harmony: Traditional Crafts and Music in Appalachia (W.W. Norton/NY, 2009); Blue Ridge Parkway Vistas: A Comprehensive Identification Guide to What You See From the Many Overlooks (Numinous Editions,2014),and Great Smoky Mountains Vistas: A Guide, with Mountain Peak Identifications, for What to See and Do In and Around the National Park (Numinous Editions, 2016).\n\n\nBarnwell's photography has been included in over 65 exhibits since 1977, including three one-man shows in New York City's SOHO Photo Gallery. His work is included in the permanent collections of numerous museums such as the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Asheville Art Museum, the Newark Museum of Art, the New Orleans Museum of Art, and the High Museum.\n"}
{"id": "310802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310802", "title": "Trompe-l'œil", "text": "Trompe-l'œil\n\nTrompe-l'œil (French for \"deceive the eye\", pronounced ) is an art technique that uses realistic imagery to create the optical illusion that the depicted objects exist in three dimensions. Forced perspective is a comparable illusion in architecture.\n\nThough the phrase, which can also be spelled without the hyphen and ligature in English as trompe l'oeil, originates in the Baroque period, when it refers to perspectival illusionism, trompe-l'œil dates much further back. It was (and is) often employed in murals. Instances from Greek and Roman times are known, for instance in Pompeii. A typical trompe-l'œil mural might depict a window, door, or hallway, intended to suggest a larger room.\n\nA version of an oft-told ancient Greek story concerns a contest between two renowned painters. Zeuxis (born around 464 BC) produced a still life painting so convincing that birds flew down to peck at the painted grapes. A rival, Parrhasius, asked Zeuxis to judge one of his paintings that was behind a pair of tattered curtains in his study. Parrhasius asked Zeuxis to pull back the curtains, but when Zeuxis tried, he could not, as the curtains were included in Parrhasius's painting—making Parrhasius the winner.\n\nWith widespread fascination with perspective drawing in the Renaissance, Italian painters of the late Quattrocento such as Andrea Mantegna (1431–1506) and Melozzo da Forlì (1438–1494), began painting illusionistic ceiling paintings, generally in fresco, that employed perspective and techniques such as foreshortening to create the impression of greater space for the viewer below. This type of trompe l'œil illusionism as specifically applied to ceiling paintings is known as \"di sotto in sù\", meaning \"from below, upward\" in Italian. The elements above the viewer are rendered as if viewed from true vanishing point perspective. Well-known examples are the Camera degli Sposi in Mantua and Antonio da Correggio's (1489–1534) \"Assumption of the Virgin\" in the Duomo of Parma. Similarly, Vittorio Carpaccio (1460–1525) and Jacopo de' Barbari (c. 1440 – before 1516) added small trompe-l'œil features to their paintings, playfully exploring the boundary between image and reality. For example, a fly might appear to be sitting on the painting's frame, or a curtain might appear to partly conceal the painting, a piece of paper might appear to be attached to a board, or a person might appear to be climbing out of the painting altogether—all in reference to the contest of Zeuxis and Parrhasius. In a 1964 seminar, the psychoanalyst and theorist Jacques Lacan (1901–1981) observed that the myth of the two painters reveals an interesting aspect of human cognition. While animals are attracted to superficial appearances, humans are enticed by the idea of things that are hidden.\n\nPerspective theories in the 17th century allowed a more fully integrated approach to architectural illusion, which when used by painters to \"open up\" the space of a wall or ceiling is known as \"quadratura\". Examples include Pietro da Cortona's \"Allegory of Divine Providence\" in the Palazzo Barberini and Andrea Pozzo's \"Apotheosis of St Ignatius\" [4] on the ceiling of the Roman church of Sant'Ignazio.\nThe Mannerist and Baroque style interiors of Jesuit churches in the 16th and 17th century often included such trompe-l'œil ceiling paintings, which optically \"open\" the ceiling or dome to the heavens with a depiction of Jesus', Mary's, or a saint's ascension or assumption. An example of a perfect architectural trompe-l'œil is the illusionistic dome in the Jesuit church, Vienna, by Andrea Pozzo, which is only slightly curved but gives the impression of true architecture.\n\nTrompe-l'œil paintings became very popular in Flemish and later in Dutch painting in the 17th century arising from the development of still life painting. The Flemish painter Cornelis Norbertus Gysbrechts created a chantourné painting showing an easel holding a painting. Chantourné literally means 'cutout' and refers to a trompe l'œil representation designed to stand away from a wall. The Dutch painter Samuel Dirksz van Hoogstraten was a master of the trompe-l'œil and theorized on the role of art as the lifelike imitation of nature in his 1678 book, the \"Introduction to the Academy of Painting, or the Visible World\" (\"Inleyding tot de hooge schoole der schilderkonst: anders de zichtbaere werelt\", Rotterdam, 1678).\n\nA fanciful form of architectural trompe-l'œil, quodlibet, features realistically rendered paintings of such items as paper knives, playing cards, ribbons, and scissors, apparently accidentally left lying around.\n\nTrompe-l'œil can also be found painted on tables and other items of furniture, on which, for example, a deck of playing cards might appear to be sitting on the table. A particularly impressive example can be seen at Chatsworth House in Derbyshire, where one of the internal doors appears to have a violin and bow suspended from it, in a trompe l'œil painted around 1723 by Jan van der Vaardt. Another example can be found in the Painted Hall at the Old Royal Naval College, Greenwich, London. This Wren building was painted by Sir James Thornhill, the first British born painter to be knighted and is a classic example of the baroque style popular in the early 18th century. The American 19th-century still-life painter William Harnett specialized in trompe-l'œil. In the 20th century, from the 1960s on, the American Richard Haas and many others painted large trompe-l'œil murals on the sides of city buildings, and from beginning of the 1980s when German Artist Rainer Maria Latzke began to combine classical fresco art with contemporary content trompe-l'œil became increasingly popular for interior murals. The Spanish painter Salvador Dalí utilized the technique for a number of his paintings.\n\nTrompe-l'œil, in the form of \"forced perspective\", has long been used in stage-theater set design, so as to create the illusion of a much deeper space than the actual stage. A famous early example is the Teatro Olimpico in Vicenza, with Vincenzo Scamozzi's seven forced-perspective \"streets\" (1585), which appear to recede into the distance.\n\nTrompe-l'œil is employed in Donald O'Connor's famous \"Running up the wall\" scene in the film \"Singin' in the Rain\" (1954). During the finale of his \"Make 'em Laugh\" number he first runs up a real wall. Then he runs towards what appears to be a hallway, but when he runs up this as well we realize that it is a large trompe-l'œil mural. More recently, Roy Andersson has made use of similar techniques in his feature films.\n\nMatte painting is a variant of trompe-l'œil, and is used in film production with elements of a scene are painted on glass panels mounted in front of the camera. \n\nFictional trompe-l'œil appears in many Looney Tunes, such as the Road Runner cartoons, where, for example, Wile E. Coyote paints a tunnel on a rock wall, and the Road Runner then races through the fake tunnel. This is usually followed by the coyote's foolishly trying to run through the tunnel after the road runner, only to smash into the hard rock-face. This sight gag was employed in \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\".\n\nIn Chicago's Near North Side, Richard Haas used a 16-story 1929 apartment hotel converted into a 1981 apartment building for trompe-l'œil murals in homage to Chicago school architecture. One of the building's sides features the Chicago Board of Trade Building, intended as a reflection of the actual building two miles south. One of France's most illusive trompe-l'œil artists is Jean Claude Adenin, who has created installations for various wealthy clients.\n\nSeveral contemporary artists use chalk on pavement or sidewalk to create trompe-l'œil works, a technique called street painting or \"pavement art.\" These creations last only until washed away, and therefore must be photographed to be preserved. Practitioners of this form include Julian Beever, Edgar Mueller, Leon Keer and Kurt Wenner.\n\nThe Palazzo Salis of Tirano, Italy has over centuries and throughout the palace used trompe l'œil in place of more expensive real masonry, doors, staircases, balconies and draperies to create an illusion of sumptuousness and opulence.\n\nTrompe l'œil, in the form of \"illusion painting\", is also used in contemporary interior design, where illusionary wall paintings experienced a Renaissance since around 1980. Significant artists in this field are the German muralist Rainer Maria Latzke, who invented, in the 1990s, a new method of producing illusion paintings, frescography, and the English artist Graham Rust.\n\nOld Masters\n\n19th century and modern masters\n\nContemporary\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19927858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19927858", "title": "Valle dei Templi", "text": "Valle dei Templi\n\nThe Valle dei Templi (; English: Valley of the Temples; ) is an archaeological site in Agrigento (ancient Greek \"Akragas\"), Sicily. It is one of the most outstanding examples of Greater Greece art and architecture, and is one of the main attractions of Sicily as well as a national monument of Italy. The area was included in the UNESCO World Heritage Site list in 1997. Much of the excavation and restoration of the temples was due to the efforts of archaeologist Domenico Antonio Lo Faso Pietrasanta (1783–1863), who was the Duke of Serradifalco from 1809 through 1812. The Archaeological and Landscape Park of the Valley of the Temples is the largest archaeological site in the world with 1,300 hectares.\n\nThe term \"valley\" is a misnomer, the site being located on a ridge outside the town of Agrigento.\n\nThe Valley includes remains of seven temples, all in Doric style. The ascription of the names, apart from that of the \"Olympeion\", are a mere tradition established in Renaissance times. The temples are:\n\n\nThe Valley is also home to the so-called Tomb of Theron, a large tuff monument of pyramidal shape; scholars suppose it was built to commemorate the Romans killed in the Second Punic War.\n\nDue to its good state of preservation, the Temple of Concordia is ranked amongst the most notable edifices of the Greek civilization existing today. Notably the UNESCO symbol alludes to this temple's 6 column facade. It has a peristatis of 6 x 13 columns built over a basement of 39.44 x 16.91 m; each Doric column has twenty grooves and a slight entasis, and is surmounted by an architrave with triglyphs and metopes; also perfectly preserved are the tympani. The cella, preceded by a pronaos, is accessed by a single step; also existing are the pylons with the stairs which allowed to reach the roof and, over the cella's walls and in the blocks of the peristasis entablature, the holes for the wooden beam of the ceiling. The exterior and the interior of the temple were covered by polychrome stucco. The upper frame had gutters with lion-like protomes, while the roof was covered by marble tiles.\n\nWhen the temple was turned into a church the entrance was moved to the rear, and the rear wall of the cella was destroyed. The spaces between the columns were closed, while 12 arched openings were created in the cella, in order to obtain a structure with one nave and two aisles. The pagan altar was destroyed and sacristies were carved out in the eastern corners. The sepultures visible inside and outside the temple date to the High Middle Age.\n\nThis temple was constructed on a mostly artificial spur. It dates to c. 450 BC, measuring 38.15 x 16.90 m: it is in Doric style, peripteros 6 columns wide by 13 long, preceded by a pronaos and opisthodomos. The basement has four steps.\n\nCurrent remains (including anastylosis from the 18th Century onwards) consist of the front colonnade with parts of the architrave and of the frieze. Only fragments of the other three sides survive, with few elements of the cella. The building was damaged in the fire of 406 BC and restored in Roman times, with the substitution of marble tiles with ones of clay, and the addition of a steep rise in the area where today can be seen the remains of the altar.\n\nNearby are arcosolia and other sepultures from Byzantine times, belonging to the late 6th century AD renovation of the Temple of Concordia into a Christian church.\n\nThe temple of Asclepius is located in the middle of the San Gregorio plain. Its identification is based on a mention by Polybius (I, 18, 2), who states that the temple was \"in front of the city\", one mile away. However, as the actual distance does not correspond and the size of the building is relatively small, scholars remains dubious about this attribution.\n\nThe small temple, probably dating to the late 5th century BC and measuring 21.7 x 10.7 m, rises over a basement with three steps. Its peculiarity is the fake opysthodomus with two semi-columns in the external side of the rear cella. Also extant are parts of the entablature, with lion-like protomes, a frieze and a \"geison\" pediment.\n\nThe sanctuary housed a bronze statue of Apollo by Myron, a gift to the city by Scipio, which was stolen by Verres.\n\nThe traditional name of this temple comes from another mention by Cicero about a temple dedicated to the classical hero \"not far from the forum\"; however, it has never been proven the latter (the \"agora\" of the Greek city) was located in this point.\n\nStylistically, the temple belongs to the last years of the 6th century BC. It has been also suggested that this temple was one of the first built under Theron. Also the entablature, of which parts have been found, would date it to the 470-460s or the middle 5th century BC (though the more recent remains could be a replacement of the older ones). One hypothesis is that the temple was begun before the Battle of Himera, to be completed only in the following decades. Polyaenus mentions a temple of Athena being built under Theron outside the city, which could be identified with that of \"Hercules\", though also with a new one in the inner acropolis.\n\nThe building, with 20th-century anastylosis, measures 67 x 25.34 m, with a peristais of 6 x 15  Doric columns and a cella with pronaos and opysthodomus, is located over a three-step basement. It is the first example (later become common in the Agrigento temples) of pylons inserted between the pronaos and cella, housing the stair which allowed inspections of the roof. The columns are rather high and have wide capitals. On the eastern side are remains of the large altar.\n\nOn the other side of the road running through the Golden Gate of the ancient city, is a plain commanded by the huge \"Olympeion\" field. This includes a \"platea\" with a large temple to Olympian Zeus, plus other areas still under investigation. These include a sanctuary, with remains of a paved square, a complex \"sacellum\" (\"holy enclosure\") and a \"tholos\". This, after another gate, is followed by a sanctuary of chthonic deities, an archaic sanctuary, the so-called \"colimbetra\" (where was a still unknown gate) and the tip of the spur where the sanctuary is located, with the temple of Vulcan.\n\nThe Olympeion complex's main attraction is the huge temple of Olympian Zeus, which was described with enthusiastic words by Diodorus Siculus and mentioned by Polybius. Today it is reduced to ruins due to destruction begun in antiquity and continued through the 18th century, when the temple was used as a quarry for the port of Porto Empedocle.\n\nNear the south-western corner of the temples is a small edifice (12,45 x 5,90 m) with two naves and a deep \"pronaos\", a double entrance and what has been identified as an altar. Its dating is controversial, though scholars have assigned it to the archaic era, due to the discovery of numerous 6th century BC vases. Also archaic is another \"sacellum\", which later was replaced by a classical edifice. These are followed by the scant remains of a temple (called \"Tempio L\") dating to the mid-5th century BC, measuring 41.8 x 20.20 meters, to which, in the 3rd century BC, a Hellenistic entablature was added.\n\nNorth of Temple L is the \"Temple of the Dioscuri,\" Castor and Pollux, the northwest corner of which is in a misleading modern reconstruction from the early 19th century, created using pieces from various other temples. It includes four columns and an entablature. The temple itself measures , and would likely have been a Doric peripteral with 6 x 13 columns, dating to about the mid-5th c. BC.\n\nOn the other side of the valley is the last spur of the hill, commanded by the remains of the Temple of Hephaestus (also called the Temple of Vulcan), although the exact deity to whom it is dedicated is unknown. It is a Doric-style peripteral building measuring , mounted on a four-step \"crepidoma\" and having 6 x 13 columns; it dates to around 430 BC. It was build over an archaic \"sacellumm\" which measures . Its decoration, dating to ca. 560-550 BC, has been recently reconstructed.\n\nOn the western side of the city are the remains of Gates VI and VII, the first probably lying on the road to Heracles, the second having two towers and two external bastions (one having 15-metre thick walls); northwards are the remains of Gates VIII and IX, now surrounded by illegal buildings.\n\nAt the western tip of the area in which the Temple of Concordia lies, are parts of a late-ancient or early-medieval necropolis, constructed on existing cisterns. Other tombs and catacombs are visible in the so-called \"Grotte Fragapane\", dating to the 4th century AD.\n\nThese late-Roman and Byzantine necropolises lie in an area used for tombs since ancient times. One of these, the so-called Tomb of Theron, is a \"naiskos\" sepulchre with square plan. Gate IV is located near the tomb of Theron: probably one of the most important in the city, as it led to the sea.\n\nWest of the \"Olympeion\", are remains of two insulae (residences) 38 m wide, connected by a square to the ancient Gate V. It is likely that they were built re-using structures belonging to the sacred area of the \"Olympeion\". Nearby is a sanctuary with an L-shaped portico from the early 5th century BC, which is annexed to Gate V. In the area are also two archaic (mid-6th century BC) temples.\n\nOn the northern side of Gate V is a large stone square leading to the \"Sanctuary of the Chthonic Gods\".\n\nThe so-called \"Oratory of Phalaris\" is in fact a Roman temple, measuring 12.40 x 8.85 m.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33130528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33130528", "title": "Victorian restoration", "text": "Victorian restoration\n\nThe Victorian restoration was the widespread and extensive refurbishment and rebuilding of Church of England churches and cathedrals that took place in England and Wales during the 19th-century reign of Queen Victoria. It was not the same process as is understood today by the term building restoration.\n\nAgainst a background of poorly maintained church buildings; a reaction against the Puritan ethic manifested in the Gothic Revival; and a shortage of churches where they were needed in cities, the Cambridge Camden Society and the Oxford Movement advocated a return to a more medieval attitude to churchgoing. The change was embraced by the Church of England which saw it as a means of reversing the decline in church attendance.\n\nThe principle was to \"restore\" a church to how it might have looked during the \"Decorated\" style of architecture which existed between 1260 and 1360, and many famous architects such as George Gilbert Scott and Ewan Christian enthusiastically accepted commissions for restorations. It is estimated that around 80% of all Church of England churches were affected in some way by the movement, varying from minor changes to complete demolition and rebuilding.\n\nInfluential people like John Ruskin and William Morris were opposed to such large-scale restoration, and their activities eventually led to the formation of societies dedicated to building preservation, such as the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings. In retrospect, the period of Victorian restoration has been viewed in a generally unfavourable light.\n\nA number of factors working together led to the spate of Victorian restoration.\n\nFrom the time of the English Reformation onwards, apart from necessary repairs so that buildings might remain in use, and the addition of occasional internal commemorative adornments, English churches and cathedrals were subjected to little building work and only piecemeal restoration. This situation lasted for about 250 years with the fabric of many churches and cathedrals suffering from neglect. The severity of the problem was demonstrated when the spire of Chichester Cathedral suddenly telescoped in on itself in 1861.\nIn addition, ever since the mid-17th century Puritan reforms which were typified by a minimum of ritual and decoration and by an unambiguous emphasis on preaching there had been an ongoing removal of any emotion or colour from English religious services as a means of distancing itself from what was seen as the excesses of Catholicism. But towards the end of the 18th century the burgeoning Gothic Revival and interest in medievalism encouraged people to seek more interest in their religious services. The popularity of the Gothic Revival was seen by Church officials as a way to reverse the decline in church attendance, and thereby start to reassert the Church's power, prosperity and influence. They therefore pushed for massive restoration programs.\n\nAs a third factor, the industrial revolution had resulted in many people living in cities that had few churches to cater for their religious needs—for instance Stockport had a population of nearly 34,000 but church seating for only 2,500. The rise in dissenter denominations, such as Methodism and the Religious Society of Friends, was seen as further evidence of this shortfall. To fulfil this need, between 1818 and 1824 the Government had granted £1.5 million for building new churches. Known as Commissioners' churches, most of them cost only £4,000 to £5,000 each to build, and dissatisfaction with their indifferent design and cheap construction provoked a strong reaction.\n\nEquivalent movements existed in most of Europe, especially northern Europe, with the French architect and architectural historian Eugène Viollet-le-Duc especially associated with the French manifestation.\n\nOne of the main driving forces for the restoration of churches was the Cambridge Camden Society (CCS), which was founded in 1839 by two Cambridge undergraduates, John Mason Neale and Benjamin Webb, as a club for those who shared a common interest in Gothic church design. It rapidly became popular: its membership increased from 8 to 180 in its first 12 months. Although initially a society for recording and discussing medieval church features, the members of the CCS soon began to expostulate in their journal \"The Ecclesiologist\" and particularly in their \"Few Words to Church-builders\" of 1844 that the only \"correct\" form for a church building was the \"middle pointed\" or \"Decorated\" style, in which churches had been built during the hundred years centred on 1300. Ecclesiology obviously struck a chord in society: it was closely linked with the ongoing interest in medievalism and the Gothic Revival.\n\nThe CCS's firm insistence on one style being correct proved to be a beacon for those who were no longer able to judge for themselves what was \"good\" in architecture—the certainties of the Vitruvian rules having lost their power during the Romantic movement that had been in vogue since the middle of the 18th century. The CCS stated that there were two possible ways in which a church could be restored. As Kenneth Clark put it, they said that one could \"either restore each of the various alterations and additions in its own style, or restore the whole church to the best and purest style of which traces remain\". The Society wholeheartedly recommended the second option and since virtually every medieval church had at least some small remnant of decorated style, maybe a porch or even just a window, the whole church would be \"restored\" to match it. And if the earliest portions were too late, then it was a candidate for a complete rebuild in the \"correct\" style.\n\n\"To restore,\" \"The Ecclesiologist\" declared, \"is to revive the original appearance ... lost by decay, accident or ill-judged alteration\". They did later admit, though, that such \"restoration\" might create an ideal state that the building had never been in.\n\nChurch restorations were also strongly influenced by the Oxford Movement, which advocated moving the centre of importance in the church from preaching to the sacrament of the Eucharist: from the pulpit to the altar. Consequences of this included moving the pulpit from a more central position to the side of the church, replacing box pews with open pews, creating a central aisle to give a better view of the altar, and the removal of galleries. Another consequence was that a larger chancel was required for the associated ritual.\n\nPersuaded by the Cambridge Camden Society that Decorated Gothic was the only correct style, and by the Oxford Movement's theories concerning the nature of worship, a spate of \"restoration\" was soon under way. Some figures give an idea of the scale. A total of 3,765 new and rebuilt churches were consecrated in the forty years up to 1875, with the most active decade being the 1860s in which there were more than 1,000 such consecrations. Over 7,000 parish churches in England and Wales — which is nearly 80% of all of them — were restored in some way between 1840 and 1875. There were 150% more people identified as professional architects in the 1871 census than in 1851 — it is known that established architects passed small restoration jobs on to their newly qualified colleagues, since such work provided good practice.\n\nThe retention of original material (carving, woodwork, etc.) tended to be of little importance to the early restorers: appearance was all, and much good old work was discarded to be replaced by modern replacement in the chosen style. Different architects had different degrees of sympathy with original material, and as the century progressed greater care was generally taken; this was at least partly as a result of the increasingly louder voices that were raised in opposition.\n\nAs an example of the type of work undertaken in one church, in 1870–71 the Church of St Peter, Great Berkhamsted was the subject of a restoration programme by William Butterfield, whose other works included churches such as All Saints, Margaret Street in London. Butterfield's restoration involved the removal of some original features, including the obliteration of paintings on the pillars. The most substantial structural changes involved raising both the roof and the floor of the chancel, raising the roof of the south transept to its original pitch, removing the vestry, incorporating the south porch into the south aisle and removing the door, re-flooring the nave, installing new oak benches and replacing an earlier gallery. Butterfield also installed clear windows in the clerestory, allowing more light to enter the nave. He extended the aisles by knocking down the dividing walls of two chambers at the west end. On the exterior of the church, Butterfield removed the crumbling stucco that had been added in 1820 and re-faced the church walls with flint flushwork.\n\nAt Lichfield Cathedral, the 18th century had been a period of decay: the 15th-century library was pulled down, most of the statues on the west front were removed, and the stonework covered with Roman cement. After some structural work early in the 19th century by James Wyatt, the ornate west front (pictured above) was restored by Sir George Gilbert Scott. It includes many ornate carved figures of kings, queens and saints, created from original materials where possible and new imitations and additions when the originals were not available. Wyatt's choir-screen had utilised medieval stone-work which Scott in turn used to create the clergy's seats in the sanctuary. A new metal screen by Francis Skidmore and John Birnie Philip to designs by Scott was installed, as was a Minton tile pavement stretching from choir screen to altar, inspired by medieval tiles found in the Choir foundations.\n\nFamous architects like George Gilbert Scott, Ewan Christian, William Butterfield and George Edmund Street became enthusiastic \"restorers\" and the wave of restoration spread across the country so that by 1875 something like 80% of all churches in England had been affected in some way.\nIn 1850 Scott wrote a book \"A plea for the faithful restoration of our Ancient Churches\", in which he stated that \"as a general rule it is highly desirable to preserve those vestiges of the growth and history of buildings which are indicated by the various styles and irregularities of its parts\". However he did not follow this principle in practice, generally sweeping away all later changes and reconstructing the church in a uniform early style, sometimes on the evidence of just one remaining early feature.\n\nThere were opponents. The Reverend John Louis Petit was a staunch and well respected opponent from his first book, Remarks on Church Architecture (1841) until his death in 1868. The Archaeological Society was founded in 1845 by Antiquarians anxious to bring the love of old buildings to a wider audience. Although John Ruskin was generally in favour of new buildings in an early Gothic style, in 1849 he wrote in \"The Seven Lamps of Architecture\" that it was not possible \"to restore anything that has ever been great or beautiful in architecture\". The Society of Antiquaries of London urged in 1855 that \"no restoration should ever be attempted, otherwise than ... in the sense of preservation from further injuries\".\n\nA later vociferous opponent was William Morris who campaigned against the proposed restoration of St John the Baptist Church, Inglesham in the 1880s and started the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings (SPAB) in 1877 when he heard of the proposed restoration of Tewkesbury Abbey by Scott. The principles espoused by SPAB took some time to attract support, but the policy of putting \"Protection in place of Restoration\" eventually took hold, and are adhered to today. Morris also wrote in 1877:\n\nDespite his opposition, though, it is known that Morris profited greatly by his firm's provision of stained glass to many restoration projects, and it has been noted that his criticism only started after his firm was securely established as a supplier to these projects.\n\nFurther opposition came from evangelical Protestants, who believed that \"ornamental carved work, decorative painting, encaustic tiles, and stained glass were foolish vanities which lead the heart astray\", and from others who were concerned about the cost: \"For the cost of one stone church with a groined roof, or even an open timbered roof, two might be built in brick with plaster ceilings; and who could dare to say that worship in the plainer building would be less devout or sincere than that which was offered in the other?\"\n\nNot all Catholics were in favour either: late in his life Cardinal Wiseman made it clear that his preference was for Renaissance art, as might be expected of a religious order of Italian origin.\n\nFrom a 20th-century perspective the process of Victorian restoration has often been viewed unfavourably, with terms such as \"ruthless\", \"insensitive\" and \"heavy-handed\" being commonly used to describe the work done.\n\nIn the introduction to his book \"The Gothic Revival\" (first published in 1928), Kenneth Clark wrote \"The real reason the Gothic Revival had been neglected is that it produced so little on which our eyes can rest without pain\". Clark also reckoned that Decorated Gothic was the worst of the three possible styles that could have been adopted—the others being Early English which had \"very little detail which an ordinary craftsman could not manage\", and Perpendicular which was \"infinitely the most adaptable of medieval styles\". Clark pointed out that Decorated was the most difficult to execute, not least because of the complicated window tracery that set it apart from the other two Gothic styles.\n\nHowever, not all restoration work was purely negative: a side effect of a number of restorations was the rediscovery of long-lost features, for instance Anglo-Saxon carving that had been incorporated into Norman foundations, or wall-paintings that had been whitewashed over, at St Albans Cathedral. It is also true to say that had they not been restored many churches would have fallen into disrepair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7930519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7930519", "title": "Warren County PCB Landfill", "text": "Warren County PCB Landfill\n\nWarren County PCB Landfill was a PCB landfill located in Warren County, North Carolina, near the community of Afton south of Warrenton. The landfill was created in 1982 by the State of North Carolina as a place to dump contaminated soil as result of an illegal PCB dumping incident. The site, which is about , was extremely controversial and led to years of lawsuits. \nWarren County was one of the first cases of environmental justice in the United States and set a legal precedent for other environmental justice cases. The site was approximately three miles south of Warrenton. The State of North Carolina owned about of the tract where the landfill was located, and Warren County owned the surrounding acreage around the borders.\n\nThe purpose of the Warren County PCB landfill, as the public knew it, was to bury 60,000 tons of PCB-contaminated soil that had been contaminated with toxic PCBs between June and August, 1978, by Robert J. Burns, a business associate with Robert \"Buck\" Ward of the Ward PCB Transformer Company of Raleigh, North Carolina. Burns and his sons deliberately dripped 31,000 gallons of PCB-contaminated oil along some 240 miles of highway shoulders in 14 counties. Burns of Jamestown, New York, was supposed to take the oil to a facility to be recycled. Allegedly, the rationale for Burns' crime was that he wanted to save money by circumventing new EPA regulations that would make waste disposal more transparent and costly. But he could have easily, discreetly, and illegally disposed of the PCB-contaminated oil in a matter of hours. Burns and Ward were sent to prison for a short time for their involvement in the crime. The Ward Transformer site would later go onto the EPA Superfund cleanup list and be the primary polluter of Lake Crabtree and the Neuse River basin in the vicinity of Raleigh, North Carolina. Contaminants from the Ward site have been detoxified, but the area around the site and surrounding creeks, lakes, and rivers have been permanently polluted.\n\nSoon after the \"midnight PCB dumpings,\" the state erected large warning signs along the roadsides, making the public feel as if the roadside PCBs posed an imminent public health threat. However, the Hunt administration let the PCBs remain for four years as they spread into the environment, while Warren County citizens fiercely opposed the PCB landfill. The Governor, the North Carolina General Assembly, and the EPA found they would have to make the political, legal, and regulatory preparations to forcibly bury the PCBs in Warren County. \n\nThe Warren County PCB landfill was permitted as a \"dry-tomb\" toxic waste landfill by the EPA under the Toxic Substances Control Act. The EPA approved the \"dry-tomb\" PCB landfill which failed from the beginning because it was capped with nearly a million gallons of water in it. The site never operated as a commercial facility because residents forced the Governor to include in the deed that it was a one-time only toxic waste facility. The landfill was built with plastic liners, a clay cap, and PVC pipes which allowed for methane and toxic gas to be released from the landfill. Although state officials told citizens they planned to build the landfill with a perforated pipe leachate collection system under the landfill, a system critical to a functioning \"dry-tomb\" landfill, no such leachate collection system was ever installed. The nearly 1 million gallons of water that was capped in the \"dry-tomb\" landfill could not be pumped out, and citizens later learned from state rainfall and landfill monitoring data that tens of thousands of gallons of water had been entering and exiting the landfill for years. Within a few months of burying the PCBs, EPA found significant PCB air emissions at the landfill and 1/2 mile away, but citizens did not learn about this report for another 15 years. The 60,000 tons of PCB-contaminated soil were buried within about 7 feet of groundwater. Warren County's first independent scientist, Dr. Charles Mulchi, had predicted that the landfill would inevitably fail because of unsuitable soils and close proximity to groundwater. He had pointed out at a January 4, 1979, EPA public hearing that state scientists had misrepresented the depths of soil sample testing they had conducted at the site. At Dr. Mulchi's insistence, the state added a plastic top liner to the landfill.\n\nAccording to detoxification expert, Dr. Joel Hirshhorn, who represented Warren County citizens as they pressed Governor Hunt and the NC General Assembly for funding for a cleanup, the Warren county PCB landfill was an utter failure that should never have been approved by the EPA.\n\nBeginning with Governor Hunt's administration's December 20, 1978, announcement that \"public sentiment would not deter the state from burying the PCBs in Warren County,\" the PCB landfill was surrounded by controversy. The landfill was located in rural Warren County, which was primarily African American. Warren County has about 18,000 people living in the county. Sixty-nine percent of the residents are non-white, and twenty percent of the residents live below the federal poverty level. The county has been determined as a Tier I county for economic development. The state claimed that the Warren County site was the best available site; however, the site selection process was not based on scientific criteria — soil permeability properties or the distance to groundwater — but on other, less tangible criteria, including the demographics of the county. EPA and state officials claimed they could compensate for improper soil qualities and the close proximity to groundwater with the engineering design of their \"state-of-the-art\", \"dry-tomb\", zero-percent discharge landfill. \n\nAfter four years of arduous due process in an effort to stop the PCB landfill, including litigation, Warren County citizens officially launched the environmental justice movement as they lay in front of 10,000 truckloads of contaminated PCB soil. During the six-week trucking opposition, with collective nonviolent direct action, which included over 550 arrests, Warren County citizens mounted what the Duke Chronicle described as \"the largest civil disobedience in the South since Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., marched through Alabama.\" It was the first time in American history that citizens were jailed for trying to stop a landfill, from attempting to prevent pollution. In an editorial titled \"Dumping on the Poor,\" the \"Washington Post\" described Warren County's PCB protest movement as \"the marriage of environmentalism with civil rights,\" and in its \"1994 Environmental Equity Draft\", the EPA described the PCB protest movement as \"the watershed event that led to the environmental equity movement of the 1980's.\" With public pressure mounting, Governor Hunt then pledged to Warren citizens that when technology became available, the state would detoxify the PCB landfill. It was a pledge that would haunt him in his 3rd and 4th terms in office. \n\nIn May, 1993, more than 10 years after the Governor promised to detoxify the PCB landfill when it became feasible, and soon after stopping a huge trash landfill to be located near the PCB landfill, citizens learned that there was \"an emergency\" at the PCB landfill because of nearly a million gallons of water in that landfill that threatened to breach the liner. Speaking and negotiating for Warren County citizens as he had done a decade before, Ken Ferruccio laid out a \"5-Point Framework\" for resolving the PCB landfill crisis and demanded from the Hunt administration (Governor Jim Hunt's 3rd of 4 terms in office):\n\nGovernor Hunt agreed to the \"Framework\" and the Joint Warren County/State PCB Landfill Working Group was formed.\n\nFor the next decade, as citizens tenaciously attempted to hold the Governor to his public pledge and pressed the legislature to fund an on-site, permanent cleanup that would not require dumping on another community, citizens set environmental justice precedents based on universal principles, and they continued to influence public policies and waste disposal decision-making. Ultimately, however, the state and the EPA protected their own interests and never admitted that the landfill had been leaking or that they were cleaning it up because it failed. The rationale for the cleanup became that Governor Hunt wanted to live up to his detoxification promise. Consequently, the state and the EPA evaded long-term liability for the PCB landfill and hid the truth about EPA's failed, \"dry-tomb\" landfills. Citizens got a cleanup, but it was without qualified independent detoxification oversight and the cleanup standards and protection they deserved. \n\nIn 1999, the North Carolina General Assembly promised about eight million dollars to go towards cleanup with another group would be willing to match it. The EPA was deemed a \"match\" and the cleanup project was able to move forward. In November 2000 an environmental engineering firm, Earth Tech, was hired to serve as the oversight contractor.\n\nIn December 2000, public bids were taken for the site-detoxifying contract. The IT group was awarded the contract, with their bid of 13.5 million dollars. Phase I of the cleanup process began, and the contract was signed in March 2001. The IT group was bought by the Shaw Group, in May 2002, and changed their name to Shaw Environmental and Infrastructure. The equipment was sent to the landfill in May 2002, and an open house was held so community members could view the site before the start-up.\n\nThe follow-up tests on the site were performed in 2002. The EPA demonstrated test onto the PCB Landfill in January 2003. Based on the test results, an interim operations permit was granted in March. The soil treatment was then completed in October 2003, and in total 81,600 tons of soil was treated for the landfill site. The soil which was treated was the soil that was on the roadside and the soil adjacent to it that had been in the landfill and had been cross-contaminated. The equipment at the site was decontaminated and removed from the site at the end of 2003. The final cost of the cleanup project of the landfill was 17.1 million dollars. (Much of this money paid for various costly studies and administrative costs. It was not the price of the actual detoxification.) The Based Catalyzed Decomposition detoxification was completed in 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2563343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2563343", "title": "When You Wish Upon a Weinstein", "text": "When You Wish Upon a Weinstein\n\n\"When You Wish Upon a Weinstein\" is the twenty-second episode of \"Family Guy\"s third season, and the original series finale. It originally aired on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim on November 9, 2003, and on Fox on December 10, 2004. In the episode, Peter prays for a Jew to help him with his financial woes. After befriending a Jewish accountant, Max Weinstein, and discovering the wonders of their religion, Peter gets the idea of converting Chris to Judaism so he will be successful in life. Lois attempts to stop him, believing that success is not based on religion.\n\n\"When You Wish Upon a Weinstein\" was written by Ricky Blitt and directed by Dan Povenmire. A holdover from the second season's production run, the episode was intended to air in 2000 towards the beginning of the third season, but Fox executives were concerned about its content, believing it could be interpreted as anti-Semitic, and did not allow it to air on television. Due to popular demand, it was instead first aired on Adult Swim in 2003. This episode features guest performances from Andrea Beutener, Mark Hamill, Phil LaMarr, Ed McMahon, Peter Riegert, Mary Scheer, Ben Stein, and Nicole Sullivan.\n\nPeter gives Lois's \"rainy-day fund\" to Jim Kaplan the scam artist selling volcano insurance. That night, Stewie breaks Meg's glasses because he hates being watched while he sleeps. Lois tells Peter that he needs to recover the money to buy their daughter a new pair of glasses. After hearing Quagmire and Cleveland talk about how men with Jewish-sounding names have helped them achieve financial success, Peter decides that he needs a Jew to handle his money in an elaborate musical number.\n\nWhen a Jewish man named Max Weinstein has car trouble outside the Griffin house, Peter takes it as a sign. After a foot chase, Peter pressures Max into helping him get the emergency money back, and he recovers the money from Kaplan. After inviting Max to dinner and accompanying him to a Reform synagogue, Peter comes to the conclusion that Chris would become smart and successful if he converted to Judaism. The two sneakily drive to Las Vegas for a quickie Bar Mitzvah.\n\nLois learns of the Bar Mitzvah from Brian (by means of torturing him with a dog whistle), and borrows Quagmire's car. She arrives just in time to stop the ceremony, but the congregants, angry that Lois is apparently insulting their religion, attack the Griffins. The family escapes just in time, locking the synagogue's door using a large star of David and getting back home on a bus. Lois points out that one's success is not based upon religion, and Peter realizes the error of his ways and makes up to the family. However, as it turns out, the bus is full of nuns who, displeased that Peter strayed from Catholicism, attack the family with rulers.\n\nPeter's song, \"I Need a Jew\", is a parody of \"When You Wish Upon a Star\". The scene where Lois tried to stop the Bar Mitzvah is a parody of the ending of \"The Graduate\".\nWhen Peter says \"Uh-oh\" as he soils himself in the Synagogue, it sounds like \"Eh-oh\" from the \"Teletubbies\".\n\n\"When You Wish Upon a Weinstein\" was written by Ricky Blitt and directed by Dan Povenmire.\n\nIn addition to the regular cast, voice actress Andrea Beutener, actor Mark Hamill, voice actor Phil LaMarr, actor Ed McMahon, actor Peter Riegert, actress Mary Scheer, actor Ben Stein, and voice actress Nicole Sullivan guest starred in the episode. Recurring guest voices in the episode include Mike Barker, Ricky Blitt, Mike Henry, Danny Smith, and Wally Wingert.\n\nThough the episode was aired during the third season, it was a holdover from the second production season. Fox network executives were concerned that the episode could be construed as anti Semitic, and decided not to air the episode after it had completed post production. It aired on Cartoon Network's programming block Adult Swim in 2003, and then it aired on Fox in 2004.\n\nOn the DVD commentary for the episode, Seth MacFarlane mentions that he showed the script of the episode to two rabbis, both of whom approved the episode \"because Peter learns the right lesson at the end\". MacFarlane also points out that 70% of the show's writers are Jewish, including Ricky Blitt, who wrote the episode, as is Ben Stein, who plays the Rabbi.\n\nLisa Keys of \"The Forward\" wrote that the episode is \"not necessarily demeaning to Jews\" but \"too vapid to be funny\".\n\nOn October 3, 2007, the Bourne Company publishing house, sole owner of the song \"When You Wish upon a Star\", filed a lawsuit against several Fox divisions, Cartoon Network, Fuzzy Door Productions, \"Family Guy\" producer Seth MacFarlane and composer Walter Murphy, claiming copyright infringement over \"I Need a Jew\", seeking unspecified damages and to halt the program's distribution. The suit claims harm to the value of the song due to the offensive nature of the lyrics.\n\nOn March 17, 2009, U.S. District Judge Deborah Batts ruled that the creators of \"Family Guy\" did not infringe on Bourne's copyright. The episode has since returned to syndicated airings on Adult Swim, TBS, and other networks.\n\n"}
{"id": "3445525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3445525", "title": "Winfield Myers", "text": "Winfield Myers\n\nWinfield Myers (born 1960) is a journalist in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nWinfield Myers was born in 1960 in Georgia. He graduated from Young Harris College and the University of Georgia, and attended graduate school in history at Tulane University and the University of Michigan.\n\nHe taught on the Great Books and Renaissance history at Michigan, world history at Xavier University of Louisiana, medieval history at Tulane, and early modern history and the philosophy of history at Georgia. He is director of Campus Watch, a project of the Middle East Forum in Philadelphia. Formerly, he was managing editor of \"The American Enterprise\" magazine, a monthly magazine published by the American Enterprise Institute, and managed the Washington office of the magazine.\n\nThe former CEO of Democracy Project, Myers is editor of a conservative college guide, \"Choosing the Right College\", with an introduction by former Secretary of Education William Bennett (Eerdmans, 1998; 2001), and past editor of the ISI Study Guides to the Liberal Arts. He was formerly senior editor of two conservative publications, the \"Intercollegiate Review\" and \"Campus magazine\" and is author of a widely distributed pamphlet for parents and students, “Asking the Right Questions in Choosing a College.”\n\nMyers lives in Rome, Georgia.\n\n"}
