{"id": "46943761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46943761", "title": "111 Murray Street", "text": "111 Murray Street\n\n111 Murray Street (formerly known as 101 Murray Street or 101 Tribeca) is a residential skyscraper completed in 2018 developed by Witkoff Group and Fisher Brothers located at the intersection of Battery Park City, the Financial District, and Tribeca in Manhattan, New York City.\n\nAccording to Winston C. Fisher, of Fisher Brothers, the building has 156 luxury condominiums. The tower will stand 792 feet (241.4 m) to its pinnacle, and is expected to have 2,100 square feet (195 sqm) of retail space on the ground floor. The building is the third tallest structure in the local area, after 30 Park Place and 56 Leonard Street, and matching the height of the Woolworth Building. A 10,600 square-foot (985 sqm) plaza sits adjacent of the tower.\n\nThe tower was constructed at the site of the former St. John's University building, at 101 Murray Street. In May 2015, the developers finalized the project's financing after securing additional funding from a Chinese insurance company. By Summer 2015, demolition of the previous structure was complete and construction of the foundation commenced. The building topped out in 2018.\n\nThe building's residents include American attorney Michael Cohen.\n\nList of tallest Buildings in New York\n\nList of tallest Buildings In The United States\n"}
{"id": "30444782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30444782", "title": "Aaron Mushimba", "text": "Aaron Mushimba\n\nAaron Twapewa Johannes Mushimba (12 December 1946-31 August 2014) was a Namibian businessperson. Described as a business mogul, Mushimba was involved with the trading of diamonds. He was linked to Belgian American diamond merchant Maurice Tempelsman. He was the chairperson of Namibian Investment Group PE Minerals, which holds the mining rights to the Rosh Pinah mine in Namibia's ǁKaras Region. He is the brother-in-law of the first Namibia's Founding President Sam Nujoma.\n\nMushimba, who was the brother of President Sam Nujoma's wife, Kovambo Nujoma, was involved in the liberation struggle beginning in the early 1960s. As the national organiser for SWAPO inside the country, he was arrested and tortured several times by the apartheid authorities in the mid-1970s. In 1975 he was arrested in connection with the assassination of Ndonga Chief Filemon Elifas, the Chief Minister of the tribal Ovambo Executive. Mushimba was sentenced to death but released on appeal in 1977 after it was found that the defense had leaked documents to the prosecution in his original trial. After his release he left for exile, where he acted as a 'fixer' for SWAPO, particularly concerning money matters. During the 1980s he was Deputy Treasurer on the SWAPO Politburo. His political track record and the fact that he was Nujoma's brother-in-law did not prevent him being detained by SWAPO in the late 1980s.\n\nWith independence, Mushimba played a dominant role in a number of business initiatives ranging from fishing through banking to construction. Several made newspaper headlines in the 1990s. He was chairman of Stocks and Stocks Namibia when the company built the Windhoek Country Club and Resort. The hotel's construction fell so far behind schedule that its launch event, the Miss Universe pageant of 1995, had to be held with the complex only part-completed. By the end of the decade, the government owned the hotel after Stocks and Stocks failed to pay its debts. Stocks and Stocks also won contracts worth over N$300 million to build government office buildings in the 1990s. The government granted Mushimba's mining company, PE Minerals, the mineral rights for the Rosh Pinah zinc mine in 1995. Following three years of uncertainty over the future of the mine, PE Minerals signed a partnership deal with the mine owners, Iscor, at the end of 1998. Another company that Mushimba heads, Namibian Harvest Investments, bought the majority share in the struggling City Savings and Investment Bank in 2001.\n\nMushimba was reported to be acting as the representative of international diamond trader Maurice Tempelsman, who in 2002 offered the government an interest free loan in return for keeping De Beers'exclusive marketing contract for NamDeb's diamonds. He has also emerged as a key player in Epia Investments, the empowerment company formed by Ohlthaver and List, the owners of Namibia Breweries. Mushimba has played a key role in several of Namibia's largest black empowerment deals.\n\nMushimba died on 31 August 2014 in a Cape Town hospital where he had been hospitalised for three weeks previous. According to his daughter Ujama, Mushimba was admitted for a back surgery, but suffered complications after the operation . He was 67.\n\n"}
{"id": "39994313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39994313", "title": "Admission Day Monument", "text": "Admission Day Monument\n\nThe Admission Day Monument is an 1897 sculpture by Douglas Tilden, located at the intersection of Market Street and Montgomery Street in San Francisco, California, United States. It commemorates California Admission Day (September 9, 1850), the date on which the state became part of the Union, following the Mexican-American war of 1848.\n\nOther names for the sculpture include Admission Day, the Admission Day Fountain, the California Admissions Day Monument, Native Son Monument, Native Sons' Monument, Native Sons Monument, and Phelan Fountain.\n\nThe work was commissioned from Douglas Tilden by Mayor James D. Phelan, who paid the $12,000 cost of the monument. The monument was announced in November 1895 as \"an opportunity [for the public to drink] 'al fresco' in artistic surroundings such as have hitherto been unknown in the far West.\" \n\nPhelan formally presented the monument in a letter to the Board of Supervisors on February 8, 1896. Although the Board was inclined to accept during a meeting on February 17, they asked Phelan for more details, and he responded with three photographs on February 21, and then by filing plans and specifications on February 27. The Board referred the matter to the Committee on Streets, who recommended acceptance at the next Board meeting on March 2. The Board accepted the recommendation and filed Resolution No. 13,902 formally accepting the gift from Phelan and naming it the Phelan Fountain.\n\nThe monument was unveiled on September 5, 1897 at Market, Turk and Mason Streets, and dedicated to the Native Sons of the Golden West on September 9, 1897. Mayor Phelan insisted that no display, speeches, or parade should accompany the presentation ceremony, and presented the monument to Supervisor T. A. Rottanzi, who accepted it in behalf of the citizens of San Francisco at 11:00 a.m.\n\nIn 1948 it was moved to Golden Gate Park, and in 1977 returned to Market Street at its present location, on the initiative of the Native Sons.\n\nWhen initially installed, the monument rested on a square foundation on a side and deep, and had three steps up to a central stone pedestal bearing engraved panels, topped by a doric column and the bronze sculptures. The three steps totaled from ground level. From the top step, the top of the pedestal was tall; the pillar added another , and the bronze atop the pedestal is , so the overall height of the monument was . When the monument was reinstalled at Market and Montgomery in the 1970s, the square foundation and steps were not restored, making the overall height of the monument now .\n\nThe lower bronze sculpture depicts a miner who is waving an American flag and carrying a gun. In the original design, the miner represents the Youth of California or the Native Sons of the Golden West, waving his hat in his left hand and \"cheering lustily in triumphant enthusiasm\". In the finished work, the Native Son is carrying the American flag on the left shoulder and has a miner's pickaxe slung on the other.\n\nAbove him – atop the column – stands the Genius of California (modeled after the sculptor's wife) that blesses the union, standing on a bronze ball and holding an open book with the admission date of September 9, 1850 inscribed inside. According to the design concept, the marble column is tall, and each figure is approximately tall. A contemporary news account called the planned design \"graceful, light and symmetrical; it has the effect of tapering toward the apex, and yet the effect appears to be entirely unstudied.\"\n\nThe column and base were designed by Willis Polk. The pedestal features two bronze bear heads, with water issuing from their mouths. The bear heads are surrounded by rattlesnakes, symbolizing the Sierra Nevada mountains and \"the attendant dangers of the wild Western life\"; as originally installed, handles held between the bears' teeth could be pulled to release water from the heads of the snakes, where they would be caught in cups decorated with a buffalo motif for drinking. The quote inscribed on the pedestal is from a speech by William H. Seward in the US Senate on March 11, 1850, arguing for the admission of California: \"The perpetual unity of the Empire hangs on the decision of this day.\" The quote has been characterized as imperialistic. The other side of the pedestal is engraved with the dedication: \"This Fountain is dedicated to the Native Sons of the Golden West to commemorate the admission of California into the Union on the Ninth of September, Anno Domini MDCCCL.\"\n\nThe Native Sons' monument met Lotta's Fountain in a fanciful 1898 children's story published by the \"San Francisco Call\" entitled \"The Three Fountains\". In the story, Sinbad and the Lob-Lolly are touring San Francisco when Sinbad announces his thirst and the Lob-Lolly responds by calling Lotta's Fountain over to them. After it arrives, it is able to dispense \"the best ice-cold soda water\" for all the children until it starts to run low, whereupon it walks over to the Native Sons' monument to ask for help. The Native Sons' monument dispensed soda for the girls, and the boys were directed to the Cogswell Fountain (which stood at California and Market, but had been torn down in 1894 by an angry mob). The Cogswell Fountain also gave what was first thought to be soda water to the boys, but which turned out to be castor oil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8853747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8853747", "title": "Alfred Koch", "text": "Alfred Koch\n\nAlfred Reingoldovich Kokh (Koch) (, , born February 28, 1961) is a Russian writer, mathematician-economist and businessman of German origin.\n\nHe served as a deputy prime minister under President Boris Yeltsin and was an ally of economic reformer Anatoly Chubais, a chief architect of Russia's privatization. On September 12, 1996, Kokh was appointed head of Russia's State Property Committee, acting as Russia's privatization chief. He left the position on August 13, 1997, after the privatization auctions (loans-for-shares).\n\nIn June 2000, Alfred Kokh became head of Gazprom-Media, a subsidiary media holding of Gazprom (now a subsidiary holding of Gazprombank), and oversaw the gas giant's controversial takeover of NTV, an independent television company owned by Vladimir Gusinsky. He was succeeded by Boris Jordan in October 2001. He also served as head of the 2003 election campaign staff for the Union of Right Forces, a pro-business, democratic party of young reformers including Yegor Gaidar, Boris Nemtsov and Irina Khakamada, the first woman to run for the Russian presidency.\n\nHe wrote the 2006 Russian best-seller, \"A Crate of Vodka\" (Ящик водки), a dialogue with journalist Igor Svinarenko about the twenty-year period that covered the last Soviet generation and the first, truly free Russian generation (1982, the death of Leonid Brezhnev, to 2001, when 9/11 put an end to liberal politics). The English translation appeared in spring 2009.\n\nIn 2008, he financed a scholarly point-by-point refutation of Holocaust denial materials. \"Denial of the Denial\" (Отрицание отрицания), with Pavel Polian, is the first book on the subject published in Russia.\n\nKokh is a frequent commentator in \"Medved\", a glossy Russian men's magazine, writing about history and travel.\n\nAlfred Kokh is a Candidate of Economic Science from the St. Petersburg Mathematics and Economics Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. He funds an annual Russian prize in mathematics; he was a sponsor of the new monument in Moscow to Tsar Alexander II, the leader who emancipated the serfs and reformed the Russian army.\n\nOut of fear of persecution by the Russian authorities he fled to Germany. His daughter Olga is a stand-up comedian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51813351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51813351", "title": "Brahim Zniber", "text": "Brahim Zniber\n\nBrahim Zniber (1920–2016) was a Moroccan businessman. Through Diana Holding, he was the founder and the owner of Celliers de Meknès, the largest wine producer in Morocco, and owned 85% of the country's wine production. From the 1970s onward, he expanded into fruit and poultry production, and Coca-Cola bottling plants.\n\nBrahim Zniber was born in 1920 in Salé, Morocco. He grew up in Sidi Kacem, then known as Petit Jean. His father, Taher Zniber, was a cereal and wool merchant who was active in the Koutla political coalition. He had five brothers and four sisters.\n\nZniber studied arboriculture and viticulture remotely, taking courses at the Ecole universitaire de Paris. While he was a student, he became a nationalist activist, serving under Mehdi Ben Barka. He hid in a remote location near Meknes to flee persecution.\n\nZniber began his career in wine-making in 1956, when he purchased 740 hectares in Ait Harz Allah. Meanwhile, he joined the board of directors of the regional chapter of the Crédit agricole du Maroc. By 1958, he founded the Union marocaine de l’agriculture, a trade organization for Moroccan agriculture.\n\nZniber was granted 1,100 hectares by King Hassan II in 1958, as French settlers were deprived of their landholdings in the wake of Morocco's independence. By 1964, he founded Samavin, later known as Celliers de Meknès. He was responsible for the growth of the wine industry in the Meknès Prefecture and Benslimane Province from the 1960s onwards.\nZniber served as a member of the House of Representatives in the 1970s. Meanwhile, he began to grow citrus fruits, apples, apricots, pears, almonds and pistachios. He acquired a poultry factory in 1975. Six years later, in 1981, he acquired Ebertec, a wine production distribution company with two subsidiaries, Thalvin and MR. Renouvo. Additionally, he invested in two bottling plants for Coca-Cola, one in Tangier and the other one in Oujda. He founded Diana Holding in 1986. In 2005, he established the first \"appellation d'origine contrôlée\" in Morocco, known as Les Coteaux de L’Atlas.\n\nBy 2014, Zniber was the owner of 2,000 hectares of vineyards near Meknes through Celliers de Meknès, and he sold 35 million bottles every year, making him the largest wine producer in Morocco. His flagship vineyard was Château Roslane. His holding company, Diana Holding, had a payroll of 8,000 and annual sales of US$3 billion. His investments included the production of olive oil under the brandname of CaracTerre and wine via Celliers de Meknès as well as \"meat processing and commercial nurseries\".\n\nBy 2016, Zniber owned 85% of Morocco's wine production, and 8,300 hectares. Diana Holding was the seventh largest privately owned company in Morocco. His main competitor was Groupe Castel.\n\nZniber was married to Rita Maria Zniber. They had a son, Leyth Zniber, who founded Eiréné, an investment fund, in 2014.\n\nZniber died on September 29, 2016 in Meknès, Morocco at the age of 96. He received a Muslim funeral on October 1st and was buried in Meknès.\n"}
{"id": "3593875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3593875", "title": "Business mathematics", "text": "Business mathematics\n\nBusiness mathematics is mathematics used by commercial enterprises to record and manage business operations. Commercial organizations use mathematics in accounting, inventory management, marketing, sales forecasting, and financial analysis. \n\nMathematics typically used in commerce includes elementary arithmetic, elementary algebra, statistics and probability. Business management can be done more effectively in some cases by use of more advanced mathematics such as calculus, matrix algebra and linear programming.\n\n\"Business mathematics, \" sometimes called \"commercial math\" or \"consumer math\", is a group of practical subjects used in commerce and everyday life. In schools, these subjects are often taught to students who are not planning a university education. In the United States, they are typically offered in high schools and in schools that grant associate's degrees; elsewhere they may be included under Business studies. The emphasis in these courses is on computational skills and their practical application, with practical application being predominant. \n\nA (U.S.) business math course might include a review of elementary arithmetic, including fractions, decimals, and percentages. Elementary algebra is often included as well, in the context of solving practical business problems. The practical applications typically include checking accounts, price discounts, markups and Markup, payroll calculations, simple and compound interest, consumer and business credit, and mortgages and revenues.\n\n\"Business Mathematics\" comprises mathematics courses taken at an undergraduate level by business students. The two most common here are \"Business Calculus\" and \"Business Statistics\". Programs often also cover matrix operations as above, and may include a separate module on interest calculations.\n\nThese courses are usually focused on problems from the business world, and the syllabus is adjusted correspondingly. Thus for example, whereas in a regular calculus course students would study trigonometric functions, courses here would not typically cover this area. Correspondingly, these courses typically do not go into the same depth as standard courses in the mathematics or science fields. (Although see Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Bachelor of Business Science.) \n\nNote that economics majors, especially those planning to pursue graduate study in the field, are encouraged to instead take regular calculus, as well as linear algebra and other advanced math courses, especially real analysis. Some programs (instead) include a module in \"mathematics for economists\", providing a bridge between the above \"Business Mathematics\" courses and mathematical economics and econometrics.\nOperations management (and management accounting) may similarly include supplementary coursework in relevant quantitative techniques, generally linear programming as above, as well as other optimization methods.\n\nAt the postgraduate level, \"generalist\" management and finance programs include quantitative topics which are foundational for the study in question - often exempting students with an appropriate background. These are usually \"interest mathematics\" and statistics, both at the above level. MBA programs often also include basic operations research (linear programming, as above) with the emphasis on practice, and may combine the topics as \"quantitative analysis\"; MSF programs may similarly cover applied econometrics.\n\nMore technical Masters in these areas, such as those in management science and quantitative finance, will entail a deeper, more theoretical study of operations research and econometrics, and extend to further advanced topics such as mathematical optimization and stochastic calculus. These programs do not include \"Business mathematics\" \"per se\".\n\nWhere mathematical economics is not required, graduate economics programs often include \"quantitative techniques\", which covers (applied) linear algebra and multivariate calculus, and may include the above topics; regardless, econometrics is usually a separate course, and is dealt with in depth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1678619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1678619", "title": "Business method patent", "text": "Business method patent\n\nBusiness method patents are a class of patents which disclose and claim new methods of doing business. This includes new types of e-commerce, insurance, banking and tax compliance etc. Business method patents are a relatively new species of patent and there have been several reviews investigating the appropriateness of patenting business methods. Nonetheless, they have become important assets for both independent inventors and major corporations.\n\nIn general, inventions are eligible for patent protection if they pass the tests of patentability: patentable subject matter, novelty, inventive step or non-obviousness, and industrial applicability (or utility).\n\nA business method may be defined as \"a method of operating any aspect of an economic enterprise\".\n\nOn January 7, 1791, France passed a patent law that stated that \"Any new discovery or invention, in all types of industry, is owned by its author...\". Inventors paid a fee depending upon the desired term of the patent (5, 10, 15 years), filed a description of the invention and were granted a patent. There was no preexamination. Validity was determined in courts. 14 out of 48 of the initial patents were for financial inventions. In June 1792, for example, a patent was issued to inventor F. P. Dousset for a type of tontine in combination with a lottery. These patents raised concerns and were banned and declared invalid in an amendment to the law passed in 1792.\n\nIn Britain, a patent was issued in 1778 to John Knox for a “[p]lan for assurances on lives of persons from 10 to 80 years of age.” At this time in British law, patents could only be issued for manufactured objects, not manufacturing processes.\n\nPatents have been granted in the United States on methods for doing business since the US patent system was established in 1790. The first financial patent was granted on March 19, 1799, to Jacob Perkins of Massachusetts for an invention for \"Detecting Counterfeit Notes.\" All details of Mr. Perkins' invention, which presumably was a device or process in the printing art, were lost in the great Patent Office fire of 1836. Its existence is only known from other sources.\nThe first financial patent for which any detailed written description survives was to a printing method entitled \"A Mode of Preventing Counterfeiting\" granted to John Kneass on April 28, 1815. The first fifty years of the U.S. Patent Office saw the granting of forty-one financial patents in the arts of bank notes (2 patents), bills of credit (1), bills of exchange (1), check blanks (4); detecting and preventing counterfeiting (10), coin counting (1), interest calculation tables (5), and lotteries (17).\n\nOn the other hand, cases such as \"Hotel Security Checking Co. v. Lorraine Co.\", 160 F. 467 (2d Cir. 1908), which held that a bookkeeping system to prevent embezzlement by waiters was unpatentable, were often read to imply a \"business method exception\", in which business methods are unpatentable. Another such case was \"Joseph E. Seagram & Sons v. Marzell\", 180 F.2d 26 (D.C. Cir. 1950), in which the court held that a patent on “blind testing” whiskey blends for consumer preferences would be “a serious restraint upon the advance of science and industry” and therefore should be refused.\n\nFor many years, the USPTO took the position that \"methods of doing business\" were not patentable. With the emergence in the 1980s and 1990s of patent applications on internet or computer enabled methods of doing commerce, however, USPTO found that it was no longer practical to determine if a particular computer implemented invention was a technological invention or a business invention. Consequently, they took the position that examiners would not have to determine if a claimed invention was a method of doing business or not. They would determine patentability based on the same statutory requirements as any other invention.\n\nThe subsequent allowance of patents on computer implemented methods for doing business was challenged in the 1998 \"State Street Bank v. Signature Financial Group\", (47 USPQ 2d 1596 (CAFC 1998)). The court affirmed the position of the USPTO and rejected the theory that a \"method of doing business\" was excluded subject matter. The court further confirmed this principle with \"AT&T Corp. v. Excel Communications, Inc.\", (50 USPQ 2d 1447 (Fed. Cir. 1999)).\n\nThe USPTO continued to require, however, that business method inventions must apply, involve, use or advance the \"technological arts\" in order to be patentable. This was based on an unpublished decision of the U.S. Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences, \"Ex Parte Bowman\", 61 USPQ2d 1665, 1671 (Bd Pat. App. & Inter. 2001). This requirement could be met by merely requiring that the invention be carried out on a computer.\n\nIn October 2005 the USPTO's own administrative judges overturned this position in a majority decision of the board in \"Ex Parte Lundgren\", Appeal No. 2003-2088 (BPAI 2005). The board ruled that the \"technological arts\" requirement could not be sustained, as no such requirement existed in law.\n\nIn light of Ex Parte Lundgren, the USPTO has issued interim guidelines for patent examiners to determine if a given claimed invention meets the statutory requirements of being a process, manufacture, composition of matter or machine (35 USC 101). These guidelines assert that a process, including a process for doing business, must produce a concrete, useful and tangible result in order to be patentable. It does not matter if the process is within the traditional technological arts or not. A price for a financial product, for example, is considered to be a concrete useful and tangible result (see State Street Bank v. Signature Financial Group).\n\nThe USPTO has reasserted its position that literary works, compositions of music, compilations of data, legal documents (such as insurance policies), and forms of energy (such as data packets transmitted over the Internet), are not considered \"manufactures\" and hence, by themselves, are not patentable. Nonetheless, the USPTO has requested comments from the public on this position.\n\nIn 2006, Justice Kennedy of the US Supreme Court cast aspersions on business method patents when he commented that some of them were of \"potential vagueness and suspect validity\". This was expressed in a concurring opinion to the case of \"eBay Inc. v. MercExchange, L.L.C.\" There has been considerable speculation as to how this opinion might affect future business method patent litigation, particularly where a patent owner seeks an injunction to stop an infringer. In 2006, three Justices (Breyer, J., joined by Stevens and Souter, JJ.) dissented from the dismissal of certiorari as improvidently granted in \"Laboratory Corp. of Am. Holdings v. Metabolite Labs., Inc.\", arguing that \"State Street\" enunciated an erroneous legal test under which processes that the Supreme Court had held patent-ineligible would be held patent-eligible.\n\nIn \"Bilski v. Kappos\", 561 U.S. 593 (2010), the Supreme Court held that the machine-or-transformation test is not the sole test for determining whether a claim comes within the \"process\" subject matter of the Patent Act and is thus patent eligible. Rather than being an exclusive test for eligibility, the machine-or-transformation test is \"a useful and important clue, an investigative tool, for determining whether some claimed inventions are processes under § 101. With respect to the facts of the case before it, the Supreme Court affirmed the Federal Circuit's \"en banc\" rejection of an application for a patent on a method of stabilizing cost inputs in the energy industry by hedging price rises against decreases. The Court held that the investment strategy set forth in the application was an \"abstract idea,\" making it ineligible under that exception to the general subject-matter areas listed in the Patent Act.\n\nThe Supreme Court's decision in \"Bilski v. Kappos\" affirmed but sharply qualified the Federal Circuit's 2008 \"en banc\" decision in \"In re Bilski\". The decision announced a \"machine-or-transformation\" test of patent eligibility that, if it had been accepted as the exclusive for process patents, would have made ineligible many business-method patents granted in the last decade. Although the Supreme Court rejected its exclusive use, the test is still important as a \"useful and important clue\" for determining patent eligibility of claimed process inventions. Under this test. first, processes that transform an article from one state or thing to another are patent eligible regardless of whether their use requires a machine. Processes involving transformation of abstract financial data, such as that claimed in machine format in \"State Street\", are probably patent ineligible. Second, processes that do not make patent-eligible transformations are patent eligible only if they are claimed to be carried out with a “particular machine.” It appears that a programmed general-purpose digital computer is not a \"particular machine\", for this purpose. It is unclear from \"Bilski\" whether a particular machine must be novel and nonobvious, and specially adapted for carrying out the new process. The Supreme Court’s decision in \"Parker v. Flook\" seems to call for that, but the \"Bilski\" court did not choose to opine on this point at that time.\n\nThe majority opinion in \"In re Bilski\" refused to hold business methods categorically ineligible on any ground. Judge Mayer's dissent, however, seconded by Judges Dyk's and Linn's concurring opinion, insisted that the US patent system is limited to technology and therefore it excludes trade and business expedients. Judge Mayer equated the US Constitution's limitation of patent grants to the \"useful arts\" to a limitation to technology, relying on case law stating that technology is the modern equivalent of useful arts.\n\nIn November 2007, the United States Internal Revenue Service proposed rules that would require tax filers who paid a license fee for a tax patent to declare that to the IRS.\n\nSeveral years later, in \"Alice v. CLS Bank\", the Supreme Court readdressed the patent eligibility of a business method. It held patent ineligible a method of securing intermediated settlement—a form of electronic escrow. In invalidating Alice's patent, the Court announced a two-step test based on the Court's earlier decisions in \"Mayo v. Prometheus\" and \"Funk Bros. Seed Co. v. Kalo Inoculant Co.\" This test first determines whether the claimed invention is directed to an abstract idea, law of nature, mathematical formula, or similar abstraction, If it is, the court is to proceed to the second step—determining whether the way the claimed invention implements the abstraction contains an inventive concept, as contrasted with being routine and conventional. Under the \"Alice\" test, the claimed invention is patent eligible only if it contains an inventive concept.\n\nThe USPTO business method examining work groups responded quickly to the Alice decision. Allowances per month for patents related to finance dropped to 10% of their pre Alice value. The Patent Trial and Appeal Board has reacted in a similar manner. Only about 20% of the appealed business method rejections by patent examiners are getting reversed by the board.\n\nWhether a business method is regarded as patentable subject matter depends on the legal jurisdiction. The World Trade Organization’s Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) does not specifically address business method patents.\n\nThere is no general prohibition on the patentability of business methods in Australia. Their patentability is determined by applying the tests used to determine the patentability of any type of invention. However, in the decision of \"Grant v Commissioner of Patents\" [2006] FCAFC 120, at paragraph [47], the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia held that a business method will only be patentable if it has a physical aspect, being a concrete, tangible, physical, or observable effect or phenomenon. Accordingly, 'pure' business methods, being those that do not have a physical aspect, are not patentable in Australia.\n\nIt has been suggested that \"Grant v Commissioner of Patents\" was wrongly decided because the court failed to properly apply the existing law as set out in the decision of the High Court of Australia in \"National Research Development Corporation v Commissioner of Patents (1959) 102 CLR 252\" and that the court should not have imposed a physical aspect requirement.\n\nA business method must be more than an abstract idea or theorem, otherwise it is not patentable in Canada. In order to be patentable, the business method must have a practical application.\n\nHowever, a business method that is an abstract idea does not become patentable merely because it has a practical application. For example, a particular business method that is an abstract idea does not become patentable merely because it is programmed into a computer as an algorithm. For a business method to be patentable, the algorithm cannot be the whole invention, but only one aspect of a novel combination. See \"Amazon.com, Inc. v The Attorney General of Canada, 2011 FCA 328, November 24, 2011\"\n\nIn April 2017, SIPO (i.e. the Chinese patent office) revised it's patent examination guidelines to allow the patenting of business methods provided the method had technical features.\n\nAccording to Brazilian Patent Law 9279, \"commercial, accounting, financial, educational, advertising, raffling, and inspection schemes, plans, principles or methods\" are not considered to be inventions or Utility Models.\n\nUnder the European Patent Convention, \"[s]chemes, rules and methods for (...) doing business\" are not regarded as inventions and are not patentable, \"to the extent that a European patent application or European patent relates to such subject-matter or activities as such\".\n\nHowever, if the claimed subject-matter \"specifies an apparatus or a technical process for carrying out at least some part of the scheme, that scheme and the apparatus or process have to be examined as a whole.\" In such a case, the claimed subject-matter is considered to be of a technical nature and is not barred from patentability under . It then has to be assessed, as a second step, whether the invention involves an inventive step, considering that the \"features which do not contribute to the technical character of the invention cannot support the presence of an inventive step\".\n\nPer Chapter II, Section 3, part (k) of the Indian Patent Act, business methods are not patentable per se. However they are patentable if a new method solves a \"technical\" problem and an apparatus/system is involved.\n\nCurrent US case law \"Alice Corp. v. CLS Bank International\" (decided June 2014) requires that in order for a business method to be patentable, it must be “significantly more” than simply implementing a well-known business process on a computer. The immediate response of the USPTO to this decision as of July 2014 has been to essentially stop allowing business method patents. The key issue is that examiners do not yet have clear guidance as to what is allowable under the Alice decision.\n\nIn the 8th edition of the International Patent Classification (IPC), which entered into force on January 1, 2006, a special subclass has been created for business methods: \"G06Q\" (Data processing systems or methods, specially adapted for administrative, commercial, financial, managerial, supervisory or forecasting purposes). In the previous editions, business methods were classified in \"G06F 17/60\". This is purely a classification matter and will not change the patent laws however.\n\nUS patents describing methods of doing business that involve the use of a computer are classified in Class 705 (\"data processing: financial, business practice, management or cost/price determination\"). Class 705 includes sub-categories for industries such as health care, insurance, electronic shopping, inventory management, accounting, and finance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28255192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28255192", "title": "Cevdet Caner", "text": "Cevdet Caner\n\nCevdet Caner (born July 29, 1973 in St. Pölten, Lower Austria) is an Austrian entrepreneur of Turkish origin who made his career and fortune in the property market. He also founded the largest independent customer-care firm in Austria, which is on the Vienna Stock Exchange \n\n"}
{"id": "240075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240075", "title": "Charles Carroll of Carrollton", "text": "Charles Carroll of Carrollton\n\nCharles Carroll (September 19, 1737 – November 14, 1832), known as Charles Carroll of Carrollton or Charles Carroll III to distinguish him from his similarly-named relatives, was a wealthy Maryland planter and an early advocate of independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and one of the signers of the American Declaration of Independence. He is sometimes referred to as one of the Founding Fathers of the United States of America, although he was not involved in framing the United States Constitution. He served as a delegate to the Continental Congress and Confederation Congress and later as first United States Senator for Maryland. He was the sole Catholic signer of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nCarroll was known contemporaneously as the \"First Citizen\" of the American Colonies, a consequence of his editorials in the \"Maryland Gazette\"[citation needed]. Carroll was the wealthiest, the longest-lived survivor, and possessed the highest formal education of all of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. A product of his 17-year Jesuit education in France, Carroll spoke five languages fluently.\n\nBorn in Annapolis, Maryland, Carroll inherited vast agricultural estates and was regarded as the wealthiest man in the American colonies when the American Revolution commenced in 1775. His personal fortune at this time was reputed to be 2,100,000 pounds sterling; the equivalent of $465,000,000 in USD in 2018. In addition, Carroll presided over his manor in Maryland; a 10,000 acre estate that included approximately 1,000 African slaves whom he later freed. Though barred from holding office in Maryland due to his religion, Carroll emerged as a leader of the state's movement for independence. He was a delegate to the Annapolis Convention and was selected as a delegate to the Continental Congress in 1776. He was part of an unsuccessful diplomatic mission that Congress sent to Canada in hopes of winning the support of French Canadians.\n\nCarroll served in the Maryland Senate from 1781 to 1800. He was elected as one of Maryland's inaugural representatives in the United States Senate, but resigned from the United States Senate in 1792 after Maryland passed a law barring individuals from simultaneously serving in state and federal office. After retiring from public office, he helped establish the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. He was the longest-lived and last surviving signatory of the Declaration of Independence, dying 56 years after the document was signed.\n\nThe Carroll family were descendants of the Ó Cearbhaill lords of Éile (Lords of Ely) in King's County (now County Offaly), Ireland. Carroll's grandfather was the Irish-born Charles Carroll the Settler (1660–1720) from Litterluna; he was a descendant of Daniel O'Carroll of Aghagurty Clareen, three miles south of Kinnitty, and a clerk in the office of Lord Powis. Carroll left his native Ireland (King's County) around the year 1659, and emigrated to St. Mary's City, capital of the colony of Maryland, in 1689, with a commission as Attorney General from the colony's Catholic proprietor, Charles Calvert, 3rd Baron Baltimore.\n\nCharles Carroll the Settler was the son of Daniel O'Carroll of Litterluna. The \"O'\" in Irish surnames was often dropped due to the Anglicisation policy of the occupying English, particularly during the period of the \"Penal Laws\". Charles Carroll the Settler had a son, born in 1702 and also named Charles. To distinguish himself from his father he was known as Charles Carroll of Annapolis.\n\nCarroll was born on September 19, 1737, in Annapolis, Maryland, the only child of Charles Carroll of Annapolis (1702–1782) and Elizabeth Brooke (1709–1761). He was born illegitimate, as his parents were not married at the time of his birth, for technical reasons to do with the inheritance of the Carroll family estates. They eventually married in 1757.\n\nThe young Carroll was educated at a Jesuit preparatory school known as Bohemia Manor in Cecil County on Maryland's Eastern Shore. At the age of eleven, he was sent to France where he continued in Jesuit schools; first at the College of St. Omer, and later the Lycée Louis-le-Grand (Louis the Great College) in Paris, graduating in 1755. He continued his studies in Europe, and read for the law in London before returning to Annapolis in 1765.\n\nCharles Carroll of Annapolis granted Carrollton Manor to his son, Charles Carroll of Carrollton. It is from this tract of land that he took his title, \"Charles Carroll of Carrollton\". Like his father, Carroll was a Roman Catholic, and as a consequence was barred by Maryland statute from entering politics, practicing law and voting. This did not prevent him from becoming one of the wealthiest men in Maryland (or indeed anywhere in the Colonies), owning extensive agricultural estates, most notably the large manor at Doughoregan, Hockley Forge and Mill, and providing capital to finance new enterprises on the Western Shore.\n\nCarroll was not initially interested in politics and in any event Catholics had been barred from holding office in Maryland since the 1704 Act seeking \"to prevent the growth of Popery in this Province\". But, as the dispute between Great Britain and her colonies intensified in the early 1770s, Carroll became a powerful voice for independence. In 1772 he engaged in a debate conducted through anonymous newspaper letters, maintaining the right of the colonies to control their own taxation. Writing in the \"Maryland Gazette\" under the pseudonym \"First Citizen,\" he became a prominent spokesman against the governor's proclamation increasing legal fees to state officers and Protestant clergy. Opposing Carroll in these written debates and writing as \"Antillon\" was Daniel Dulany the Younger, a noted lawyer and loyalist politician. In these debates, Carroll argued that the government of Maryland had long been the monopoly of four families, the Ogles, the Taskers, the Bladens and the Dulanys, with Dulany taking the contrary view. Eventually word spread of the true identity of the two combatants, and Carroll's fame and notoriety began to grow. Dulany soon resorted to highly personal ad hominem attacks on \"First Citizen\", and Carroll responded, in statesmanlike fashion, with considerable restraint, arguing that when Antillon engaged in \"virulent invective and illiberal abuse, we may fairly presume, that arguments are either wanting, or that ignorance or incapacity know not how to apply them\".\n\nFollowing these written debates, Carroll became a leading opponent of British rule, and served on various committees of correspondence. He also played an important role in the burning in Annapolis harbor of the \"Peggy Stewart\", a ship which had been carrying tea to Maryland, and was destroyed on October 19, 1774 as part of the tea party protests against British excise duties enacted by the Parliament in the \"Tea Act\". The day of the burning is commemorated in Maryland by a state holiday and historical event commemorating the American Revolution, known as \"Peggy Stewart Day\" on October 19.\n\nIn the early 1770s Carroll appears to have embraced the idea that only violence could break the impasse with Great Britain. According to legend, Carroll and Samuel Chase (who would also later sign the Declaration of Independence on Maryland's behalf) had the following exchange:\n\nBeginning with his election to Maryland's committee of correspondence in 1774, Carroll represented the colony in most of the pre-revolutionary groups. He became a member of Annapolis' first Committee of Safety in 1775. Carroll was a delegate to the Annapolis Convention (1774–1776), which functioned as Maryland's revolutionary government before the Declaration of Independence. In 1776, he was selected as a delegate to the Continental Congress.\n\nIn early 1776, the Congress sent him on a three-man diplomatic mission to Canada, in order to seek assistance from French Canadians in the confrontation with Britain. Carroll was an excellent choice for such a mission, being fluent in French and a Roman Catholic, and therefore well suited to negotiations with the French-speaking Catholics of Quebec. He was joined in the commission by Benjamin Franklin, Samuel Chase and his cousin John Carroll. The commission did not accomplish its mission, primarily because of the failure of the concurrent Invasion of Canada.\n\nCarroll was elected to the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, and remained a delegate until 1778. He arrived too late to vote in favor of the Declaration of Independence, but was present to sign the official document that survives today. After both Thomas Jefferson and John Adams died on July 4, 1826, Carroll became the last living signatory of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nHis signature reads \"Charles Carroll of Carrollton\", to distinguish him from his father \"Charles Carroll of Annapolis\", who was still living at that time, and several other Charles Carrolls in Maryland, such as Charles Carroll, Barrister, or his son Charles Carroll, Jr., also known as Charles Carroll of Homewood. He is usually referred to this way by historians. At the time he was one of the richest men in America. Throughout his term in the Second Continental Congress, he served on the board of war.\n\nCarroll returned to Maryland in 1778 to assist in the formation of a state government. Carroll was re-elected to the Continental Congress in 1780, but he declined. He was elected to the Maryland State Senate in 1781 and served there continuously until 1800.\n\nIn November 1779 The Maryland House of Delegates moved to pass a bill confiscating the property of those who had sided with the Crown during the Revolution. Carroll opposed this measure, questioning the motives of those who pressed for confiscation and arguing that the measure was unjust. However, such moves to confiscate Tory property had much popular support and eventually, in 1780, the measure passed.\n\nWhen the United States government was created, the Maryland legislature elected him to the first United States Senate. In 1792 Maryland passed a law that prohibited any man from serving in the state and national legislatures at the same time. Since he preferred to be in the Maryland Senate, he resigned from the U. S. Senate on November 30, 1792.\n\nThe Carroll family were slaveholders and Carroll was himself a substantial and wealthy planter. Carroll was opposed in principle to slavery, asking rhetorically: \"Why keep alive the question of slavery? It is admitted by all to be a great evil.\" However, although he supported its gradual abolition, he did not free his own slaves. Carroll introduced a bill for the gradual abolition of slavery in the Maryland Senate, but it did not pass. In 1828, aged 91, he served as president of the Auxiliary State Colonization Society of Maryland, the Maryland branch of the American Colonization Society, an organization dedicated to returning black Americans to lead free lives in African states such as Liberia.\n\nCarroll retired from public life in 1801. After Thomas Jefferson became president, he had great anxiety about political activity, and was not sympathetic to the War of 1812. He was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1815. Carroll came out of retirement to help create the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in 1827. In 1828 he commissioned the Phoenix Shot Tower and laid its corner stone, which was then the tallest building in the United States until the Washington Monument. His last public act, on July 4, 1828, was the laying of the \"first stone\" (cornerstone) of the railroad.\n\nIn May 1832, he was asked to appear at the first-ever Democratic Party Convention but did not attend on account of poor health. Carroll died on November 14, 1832, of an apparent heart attack at the age of 96, in Baltimore. He holds the distinction of being the oldest lived founding father. He had outlived the first five U.S presidents. His funeral took place at the Baltimore Cathedral (now known as the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary), and he is buried in his Doughoregan Manor Chapel at Ellicott City, Maryland.\n\nCarroll funded the building of what is known today as Homewood House, a 140-acre (570,000 m²) estate in northern Baltimore, Maryland as a wedding gift to his son, Charles Jr., and Harriet Chew. Charles Jr. then oversaw the design and construction of the house, which began construction in 1801 and was mostly finished by 1808. Research shows that he incorporated suggestions from his wife. It took five years to build and cost $40,000, four times the budgeted expense. The house never fulfilled the family's expectations, as it did nothing to cure Charles Jr.'s idleness and alcoholism, factors which led to the failure of the marriage by binding separation. Homewood was donated to Johns Hopkins University in 1876 and later became its main campus. Today, Johns Hopkins operates Homewood House as a museum, and its Federal-style architecture serves as the inspiration for Hopkins campus architecture.\n\nThe home of Carroll's son-in-law Richard Caton, Brooklandwood in Baltimore County, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1972.\n\nCarroll is remembered in the third stanza of the state song \"Maryland, My Maryland\".\n\nNamed in his honor are counties in Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, Ohio, and Virginia as well as two Louisiana parishes, East and West Carroll. Carroll County, Kentucky and its county seat, Carrollton, are both named for him. Also named for him are the Carroll Gardens neighborhood in Brooklyn and the Greater Carrollwood neighborhoods of Tampa; as well as the city of New Carrollton, Maryland, home to Charles Carroll Middle School, and the town of Carroll, New York. Carroll University in Waukesha, Wisconsin, is named in his honor. In addition, Charles Carroll High School in the Port Richmond neighborhood of Philadelphia is named for Charles Carroll.\n\nIn 1876, the Centennial Exhibition held to commemorate the birth of the United States was held in Philadelphia. The Catholic Abstinence Union of America commissioned the Catholic Total Abstinence Union Fountain for the Centennial Exhibition which includes a statue of Charles Carroll. The fountain was commissioned and created by sculptor Herman Kim to promote American morality and the centerpiece of the fountain was a statue of Moses. The statue of Moses is the center of the fountain and there are four other statues that surround it. The other four statues, that make up the points of the Maltese Cross, are statues of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, a signer of the Declaration of Independence, Father Matthew, the Great Apostle of temperance, Commodore John Barry, a distinguished officer of the American Revolution and father of the American Navy, and Archbishop John Carroll, the patriot priest of the American Revolution. The fountain is currently located in West Fairmount Park, Philadelphia at the intersection of Avenue of the Republic and States Drive.\n\nIn 1903, the state of Maryland added a bronze statue of Charles Carroll of Carrollton to the United States Capitol's National Statuary Hall Collection. It is located in the Crypt.\n\nIn 1906 the University of Notre Dame constructed what is now known as Carroll Hall, a residence hall named after Charles Carroll.\n\nPaca-Carroll House at St. John's College is named for Carroll and his fellow signer of the Declaration of Independence, William Paca.\n\nCharles Carroll of Carrollton married Mary Darnall (1749-1782), known as Molly, on June 5, 1768. She was a granddaughter of Henry Darnall (Charles Carroll was a great grandson of Henry Darnall). They had seven children before Molly died in 1782, but only three survived infancy:\n\nToday, Carroll's descendants continue to own Doughoregan Manor, the largest parcel of land in Howard County, Maryland, with over 1000 acres (4 km²) of valuable but historically preserved land in Ellicott City, Maryland.\n\nIn the 1940s, newspaper journalist John Hix's syndicated comic \"Strange as It Seems\" published an interesting, but apocryphal, explanation for Charles Carroll's distinctive signature on the Declaration of Independence. Every member of the Continental Congress who signed this document automatically became a criminal, guilty of sedition against King George III. Carroll, because of his wealth, had more to lose than most of his companions. Some of the signators, such as Caesar Rodney and Button Gwinnett, had unusual and distinctive names which would clearly identify them to the King; other signators, with more commonplace names, might hope to sign the Declaration without incriminating themselves.\n\nAccording to Hix, when it was Carroll's turn to sign the Declaration of Independence, he rose, went to John Hancock's desk where the document rested, signed his name \"Charles Carroll\" and returned to his seat. At this point another member of the Continental Congress, who was prejudiced against Carroll because of his Catholicism, commented that Carroll risked nothing in signing the document, as there must be many men named Charles Carroll in the colonies, and so the King would be unlikely to order Carroll's arrest without clear proof that he was the same Charles Carroll who had signed the Declaration. Carroll immediately returned to Hancock's desk, seized the pen again, and added \"of Carrollton\" to his name.\n\nIn fact, Carroll had been appending \"of Carrollton\" to his signature for over a decade, the earliest surviving example appearing at the end of a September 15, 1765, letter to his English friend William Gibson. Carrollton Manor was the name of a tract of more than twelve thousand acres in Frederick County, Maryland, which the Carroll family leased to tenant farmers.\n\nCharles Carroll was portrayed by actor Terrence Currier in the 2004 film \"National Treasure\" with Nicolas Cage. He is accurately described as the last living signatory of the Declaration of Independence. Although the film does not explicitly state it, it is implied that Carroll died in Washington, D.C. It is inaccurately stated that Carroll was a Mason; historians of freemasonry agree that there is no evidence that he was, though his son (also named Charles Carroll) is known to have been a member. A scene which did not make the final cut of the film (but appears as a deleted scene on the DVD) shows then-President Jackson rushing out of the White House to find Carroll's body in a carriage. Unable to meet with Jackson in time, Carroll takes into his confidence his carriage driver, Thomas Gates, the great-great-great-great-grandfather of Nicolas Cage's character, Benjamin Franklin Gates. From Carroll, Thomas receives the last known clue to the Treasure of the Templar Knights.\n\nCarroll is mentioned in the movie \"Gone with the Wind\".\n\n\n\n. Retrieved November 2010.\n"}
{"id": "1560425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560425", "title": "Collateral (finance)", "text": "Collateral (finance)\n\nIn lending agreements, collateral is a borrower's pledge of specific property to a lender, to secure repayment of a loan. The collateral serves as a lender's protection against a borrower's default and so can be used to offset the loan if the borrower fails to pay the principal and interest satisfactorily under the terms of the lending agreement.\n\nThe protection that collateral provides generally allows lenders to offer a lower interest rate on loans that have collateral compared to those without collateral because the risk of loss to the lender is lower. The reduction in interest rate can be up to several percentage points, depending on the type and value of the collateral. For example, the interest rate (APR) on an unsecured loan is often much higher than on a secured loan or logbook loan, as the risk for the lender is then increased.\n\nIf a borrower defaults on a loan (due to insolvency or another event), that borrower loses the property pledged as collateral, with the lender then becoming the owner of the property. In a typical mortgage loan transaction, for instance, the real estate being acquired with the help of the loan serves as collateral. If the buyer fails to repay the loan according to the mortgage agreement, the lender can use the legal process of foreclosure to obtain ownership of the real estate. A pawnbroker is a common example of a business that may accept a wide range of items as collateral.\n\nThe type of the collateral may be restricted based on the type of the loan (as is the case with auto loans and mortgages); it also can be flexible, such as in the case of collateral-based personal loans.\n\nCollateral, especially within banking, traditionally refers to secured lending (also known as asset-based lending). More-complex collateralization arrangements may be used to secure trade transactions (also known as \"capital market collateralization\"). The former often presents unilateral obligations secured in the form of property, surety, guarantee or other collateral (originally denoted by the term \"security\"), whereas the latter often presents bilateral obligations secured by more-liquid assets such as cash or securities, often known as margin.\n\nMarketable collateral is the exchange of financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, for a loan between a financial institution and borrower. To be deemed marketable, assets must be capable of being sold under normal market conditions with reasonable promptness at current fair market value. For national banks to accept a borrower's loan proposal, collateral must be equal to or greater than 100% of the loan or credit extension amount. In the United States of America, the bank's total outstanding loans and credit extensions to one borrower may not exceed 15 percent of the bank's capital and surplus, plus an additional 10 percent of the bank's capital and surplus.\n\nReduction of collateral value is the primary risk when securing loans with marketable collateral. Financial institutions closely monitor the market value of any financial assets held as collateral and take appropriate action if the value subsequently declines below the predetermined maximum loan-to-value ratio. The permitted actions are generally specified in a loan agreement or margin agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "9875149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9875149", "title": "Dan David (businessman)", "text": "Dan David (businessman)\n\nDan David (; ‎23 May 1929 – 6 September 2011) was a Romanian-born Israeli businessman and philanthropist.\n\nDan David was born to a Jewish family in Bucharest, Romania. He joined a Zionist youth movement at the age of 16. After studying economics at university, he worked for Romanian television and became a press photographer. In 1958, his newspaper asked him to travel to West Germany on an assignment. When he requested an exit permit, he was accused of being a Zionist activist and was fired from his job. \n\nHe left Romania for Paris in August 1960, later settling in Israel. The following year, he traveled to Europe. With a $200,000 loan from a cousin, he won the franchise for Photo-Me International automated photography booths in certain countries. He opened branches in Israel, Spain, Romania and Italy, eventually taking over the company. When David was chairman of Photo-Me in 1999, his and board-member Serge Crasnianski's shares were valued at 210 and 200 million pounds, respectively.\n\nDavid died in London on 6 September 2011.\n\nIn 2000, David founded the Dan David Foundation with a $100 million endowment. The First Director of the Dan David Prize was Professor Gad Barzilai. The Foundation, together with Tel Aviv University, awards the Dan David Prize (first awarded in 2002), which consists of annual awards of three prizes of $1 million each awarded to individuals who have made an outstanding contribution in the fields of science, technology, culture or social welfare.\n\n"}
{"id": "45250080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45250080", "title": "Dejphon Chansiri", "text": "Dejphon Chansiri\n\nDejphon Chansiri is a Thai businessman who is the current owner of English Football League Championship club Sheffield Wednesday.\n\nChansiri's family controls the Thai Union Group, the world's largest producer of canned tuna. In January 2015, a consortium led by Chansiri acquired a 100% stake in Sheffield Wednesday from Milan Mandaric for £37.5m and targeted promotion to the Premier League by 2017. \n\nDuring the summer of 2015, Chansiri changed many aspects of the Sheffield Wednesday set-up including the backroom staff and players, such as sacking manager Stuart Gray and replacing him with Carlos Carvalhal, who had previously managed Turkish side Besiktas and several clubs in his home country of Portugal.\n"}
{"id": "1497833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1497833", "title": "Dnevnik (Bulgarian newspaper)", "text": "Dnevnik (Bulgarian newspaper)\n\nDnevnik () is a business-oriented Bulgarian daily newspaper, that is published Monday - Friday in Sofia since 2001. Until early 2005, it was printed in broadsheet format, the last Bulgarian daily to use the large format. It adopted a compact format after research in 2005 found that more than 50% of the readers would prefer a smaller, thicker paper. Dnevnik's main editorial line is that the state should intervene less, and that business should have more freedom. Like the influential business and politics weekly \"Capital\", it is published by Sofia-based Economedia.\n\nGerman publishing group Georg von Holtzbrinck Publishing Group was the owner of a 50 per cent stake in Economedia, but the Bulgarian owners of Economedia bought the shares back in November 2007.\n\nWith a print-run of between 12,000 and 15,000, Dnevnik claimed 6,000 paid subscribers, distributed between 2,000 and 5,000 copies free-of-charge and sold about 5,000 copies at newsstands, the publisher's figures showed, adding that each copy had about five readers. In November 2005, Dnevnik launched \"Morski Dnevnik\", a weekly supplement for Bulgaria's Black Sea region with each Friday's paper.\n\nDnevnik publishes daily web editions in Bulgarian and English and sends a daily summary of the day's top stories by email in either language to anyone who signs up for this free service. It also offers a Bulgarian-language RSS newsfeed.\n\nAs per Bulgarian Trade register owners of the Dnevnik - Economedia are not disclosed as the company is a joint stock company per registration but directors and representatives are Ivo Georgiev Prokopiev, Philip Michailov Harmandzhiev and Galia Valentinova Prokopieva. Also legal representatives who are not shareholders are: Kostadin Dimitrov Georgiev and Neli Velkova Hristova. Share capital of the company is 6,379,957 BGN (€3.2 mln, or $4.4 mln). The company's liabilities include a drawn €1 mln loan from the Greek Alpha bank.\n\n"}
{"id": "54448938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54448938", "title": "Downtown Wichita", "text": "Downtown Wichita\n\nDowntown Wichita is the central business district of Wichita, Kansas, United States. The political and financial hub of the city, it is home to several of the area’s major landmarks and event venues including the Epic Center, Century II Performing Arts & Convention Center, Intrust Bank Arena, and the Old Town entertainment district.\n\nIn 1872, the community of Wichita opened a toll bridge on Douglas Avenue to Delano across the Arkansas River, and the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway opened a line through the city, triggering an economic boom. Local industries in banking, meat packing, and real estate emerged. A large warehouse district developed along the rail lines south from Central Avenue. By the late 1870s, the intersection of Douglas Avenue and Main Street had become the downtown hub of local commerce.\n\nContinued economic growth through the 1880s spurred further downtown development, including the completion of the Wichita City Building in 1892. The building housed all city government offices, both the police and fire departments, and the city’s first public library. During the subsequent decades, a number of manufacturers constructed plants downtown, including the Coleman Company in 1901.\n\nThe Forum, Wichita’s convention center and primary event venue, opened downtown in 1911. It was built on the site of city co-founder Dutch Bill Greiffenstein’s homestead. The Orpheum Theatre opened downtown in 1922 and became a popular venue on the vaudeville circuit.\n\nBy the 1960s, sections of downtown had entered a period of decline. To commemorate the centennial of Wichita’s founding, the city razed The Forum and in its place built the Century II Performing Arts & Convention Center which opened in 1969. The city government relocated to a new City Hall in 1975. In 1981, the former City Building reopened as the Wichita-Sedgwick County Historical Museum. In 1987, construction finished downtown on the Epic Center office tower, the tallest building in the city and in the state of Kansas.\n\nIn 1989, the city initiated a redevelopment plan to revitalize Downtown Wichita. Among the plan’s results was the redevelopment of the old warehouse district into Old Town, an entertainment district home to numerous restaurants and night clubs. The city implemented further development plans, including the construction of Intrust Bank Arena, a new multi-purpose indoor arena which opened in 2010.\n\nDowntown Wichita is located at (37.688888, −97.336111) at an elevation of . It mainly consists of the area between Murdock Street to the north, U.S. Route 54 to the south, the Arkansas River to the west, and Washington Street to the east. Portions of Downtown overlap with the Midtown neighborhood to the north, Delano across the river to the west, and Riverside to the northwest. In addition, it borders the McAdams neighborhood to the northeast, The Hyde (also called Kellogg School) to the east, and South Central to the south.\n\nFor the purposes of representation on the Wichita City Council, the portion of Downtown north of Douglas Avenue and west of Washington Street is in Council District 6. The rest of Downtown is in Council District 1. Wichita City Hall is located downtown at the corner of Main Street and Central Avenue. \n\nFor the purposes of representation in the Kansas Legislature, Downtown Wichita is in the 29th district of the Kansas Senate and the 103rd district of the Kansas House of Representatives.\n\nThe headquarters of Wichita Public Schools is located downtown on North Water Street.\n\nThe offices of \"The Wichita Eagle\", the primary newspaper published in the city, are located downtown in Old Town.\n\nKMUW, the NPR member station in Wichita, broadcasts from studios in Old Town.\n\nThe city government's Park and Recreation Department manages several parks and recreational spaces downtown. A. Price Woodard Park occupies on the east bank of the Arkansas River immediately south of Douglas Avenue. Named after a former mayor of the city, it includes an amphitheater, a lighted decorative fountain, and a number of bronze sculptures. Chester I. Lewis Reflection Square Park is a small, \"pocket park\" on Douglas Avenue with water fountains and bronze sculptures. Named after a local civil rights leader, the park is located on the site where the Dockum Drug Store sit-in took place in 1958. Finlay Ross Park is a mini-park east of Century II consisting of landscaped, multi-level pools, fountains, and waterfalls. The Heritage Square Park, located on East William Street, includes a gazebo and rock fountain pool. The Mayor's Pine Grove is a space at Water Street and 2nd Street developed in 1978 to help beautify the area. Naftzger Memorial Park covers on East Douglas Avenue and includes a gazebo, decorative waterfall, and a fountain dedicated to temperance radical Carrie Nation. Veterans Memorial Park occupies on Greenway Boulevard and hosts 16 memorials to U.S. military veterans and their families. Designed by California Skateparks, the Wichita Skatepark is a , all-concrete skateboarding park on South St. Francis Street beneath the U.S. Route 54 overpass.\n\n\nBroadway Street is the main north-south street through downtown; Douglas Avenue is the main east-west street. Other arterial roads include: Central Avenue, which runs east-west along the central business district’s northern edge; Washington Avenue, which runs north-south along its eastern edge; and Kellogg Avenue (U.S. Route 54 and U.S. Route 400), which runs along its southern edge. The base point for the numbering of all postal addresses in the city and Sedgwick County is the intersection of Douglas Avenue and Main Street. Douglas is the divider between north and south; Main Street is the divider between east and west.\n\nThe Wichita Transit Center, Wichita Transit’s main bus terminal, is located downtown at South Topeka Street and East William Street. Most of Wichita Transit’s bus routes service the central business district including the 11 through 17 and 21 through 29 routes. All four routes of the free Q-Line trolley also service downtown.\n\nBNSF Railway and Union Pacific Railroad operate freight rail lines which run north-south through downtown Wichita, parallel to Santa Fe Avenue.\n\n"}
{"id": "17323433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17323433", "title": "Duval County Courthouse", "text": "Duval County Courthouse\n\nThe Duval County Courthouse is the local courthouse for Duval County, Florida. It houses courtrooms and judges from the Duval County and Fourth Judicial Circuit Courts. The new facility is located Downtown Jacksonville, Florida; it was built starting in 2009 and opened in 2012.\n\nDuval County was created on August 12, 1822 and was formerly part of St. Johns County. Although the county's area was huge, it took more than twenty years before the first courthouse was constructed during the 1840s. A second courthouse was constructed in 1886, but was burned in the Great Fire of 1901. The third courthouse was constructed in 1902 and closed in 1958. A new courthouse funded by the Better Jacksonville Plan was planned in 2000, but budget issues and rising costs delayed its construction until 2009.\n\nThe first courthouse erected in Duval County was constructed of wood during the 1840s where Forsyth and Market Street intersect. It was burned to the ground during the Civil War.\n\nIt took another twenty years before it was replaced with a brick building, constructed in 1886, which lasted until the Great Fire of 1901, which destroyed most of downtown Jacksonville. After the fire, the courthouse was one of the first buildings reconstructed, across the street from the old one. The exterior brick walls of the old courthouse remained mostly intact and were utilized in the creation of a new armory building. That structure became part of the Lanier Building, which was demolished in 2003.\n\nRutledge Holmes designed the 1902 courthouse, which had a stone exterior. The architect incorporated up to seven additional floors in the design, but the original building was never expanded. Instead, when additional space was required, an annex was added in 1914, nearly doubling the usable courthouse space.\n\nAn architecturally modern courthouse was constructed on East Bay Street and dedicated in 1958, ten years before consolidation and at a time when the entire county's population was just over 450,000. During that same time, Jacksonville built the Haydon Burns Library, Friendship Fountain, Jacksonville Memorial Coliseum, the current Courthouse Annex and the CSX Transportation Building, making the city, “thoroughly modern”. The 1902 courthouse was demolished; the 1914 annex was preserved and later expanded to include the site of the 1902 courthouse and still functions as a county office building.\n\nThe 2000 Census counted over three-quarters of a million people in Duval County, an increase of 67% since the prior courthouse opened. The Bay Street facility had been overcrowded for many years and additional space was desperately needed. State law required the local government to construct a new facility. Mayor John Delaney proposed the Better Jacksonville Plan, a $2.25 billion package of projects, including a new courthouse. The referendum on the Better Jacksonville Plan passed on September 5, 2000, and planning for the courthouse commenced. Costs were estimated at $190 million, with another $20 million built into the budget for contingency. Construction was awarded to Cannon Design.\n\nIn 2003 Delaney left office and was succeeded by John Peyton. Construction continued under Cannon, but budget and size estimates fluctuated. Peyton stopped work on the courthouse complex on October 28, 2004, and fired Cannon and construction managers Skanska Dynamic Partners. At the time, the project had not broken ground, but project design, property acquisition, site work and utility relocation had been completed, at a cost of $64.3 million. Peyton's office cited rising construction costs as part of the reason for the budget deficit.\nPeyton decided to throw out Cannon's original designs, including completed work, and proposed a new plan. The Jacksonville City Council approved increasing the courthouse budget to $263.5 million in 2006. The project was re-bid, and the team of Perry-McCall Construction and The Auchter Company were initially awarded the contract. When it was discovered that the Auchter Company had financial troubles, the contract was withdrawn. In an attempt to retain the contract, Perry-McCall and Auchter merged to form a new company, but Jacksonville's General Counsel rejected their plan because the new company had not bid on the project.\n\nSecond place bidder, Turner Construction Company, which partnered with Technical Construction Services Group and KBJ Architects, was given an opportunity to negotiate a contract with the city in July 2007, by approval of the Competitive Sealed Proposal Evaluation Committee. On November 16, 2007, the Courthouse Architectural Review Committee (CARC) convened to review the new options under consideration by the administration and voted 4-1 to pursue the mayor's recommendation to build one 800,000 square foot facility on the existing LaVilla site using the design from KBJ Architects. Turner Construction was chosen as contractor. Turner Construction is also company that built the Veteran's Memorial Arena in Jacksonville.\n\nBased on that recommendation and after intensive study, the Jacksonville City Council approved a $350 million county courthouse complex in April, 2008 that was supported by Mayor Peyton and Chief Circuit Judge Donald Moran. The council also agreed that any proceeds from the sale of the current riverfront courthouse and the City Hall annex be used to pay for the increased costs of the new courthouse construction.\n\n^$64.3 million already spent to-date for land acquisition, utility relocation and previous design efforts\nConstruction began in May 2009, with more than 400 workers engaged for over a year. The courthouse was completed in 2012 and opened on June 18, 2012.\n\nThe courthouse includes a public green space, known as the Courthouse Lawn.\n\n"}
{"id": "12767581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12767581", "title": "Edward B. Jackson", "text": "Edward B. Jackson\n\nEdward Brake Jackson (January 25, 1793 – September 8, 1826) was a U.S. Representative from Virginia, son of George Jackson and brother of John G. Jackson.\n\nBorn in Clarksburg, Virginia (now West Virginia), Jackson attended Randolph Academy at Clarksburg.\nHe studied medicine and commenced practice in Clarksburg.\nDuring the War of 1812 he was assigned as a surgeon's mate, Third Regular Virginia Militia, at Fort Meigs, Ohio.\nHe served as a member of the State house of delegates 1815–1818.\nHe served as clerk of the United States district court in 1819.\n\nJackson was elected as a Democratic-Republican to the Sixteenth Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of James Pindall and reelected to the Seventeenth Congress and served from October 23, 1820, to March 3, 1823.\nHe declined to be a candidate for renomination in 1822.\nHe died at Bedford Springs, near Bedford, Pennsylvania, September 8, 1826.\nHe was interred near Bedford, Pennsylvania.\n\n1821; Jackson won election with 75.22% of the vote, defeating Federalist Thomas Wilson.\n"}
{"id": "6086829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6086829", "title": "Efraín Goldenberg", "text": "Efraín Goldenberg\n\nEfraín Goldenberg Schreiber, or \"Efraím,\" (born 28 December 1929) served as Peru's finance minister, foreign relations minister, and prime minister in the 1990s.\n\nGoldenberg was born on December 28, 1929, in Lima, Peru, to Jewish Romanian immigrants. He grew up in Talara, and attended the Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos.\n\nOn February 17, 1994, he was sworn in as Prime Minister of Peru by then President Alberto Fujimori, a position that he held until 1995. He was Peru's foreign relations minister prior to this office (August 28, 1993–95).\n\nOn October 10, 1999, he became Peru's Finance Minister.\n\nHe has had a prominent role in the business community as chairperson of the National Fisheries Society and director of the Fund for the Promoting of Exports.\n"}
{"id": "2865841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2865841", "title": "Employees' Provident Fund Organisation", "text": "Employees' Provident Fund Organisation\n\nThe Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (abbreviated to EPFO), is an Organization tasked to assist the Central Board of Trustees, a statutory body formed by the Employees' Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and is under the administrative control of the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of India.\n\nEPFO assists the Central Board in administering a compulsory contributory Provident Fund Scheme, a Pension Scheme and an Insurance Scheme for the workforce engaged in the organized sector in India. It is also the nodal agency for implementing Bilateral Social Security Agreements with other countries on a reciprocal basis. The schemes cover Indian workers as well as International workers (for countries with which bilateral agreements have been signed. As of now 17 Social Security Agreements are operational). It is one of the largest social security organisations in India in terms of the number of covered beneficiaries and the volume of financial transactions undertaken. The EPFO's apex decision making body is the Central Board of Trustees (CBT).\n\nThe total assets under management are more than 8.5 lakh crore (US$128 billion) as of 18 March 2016.\n\nOn 1 October 2014, Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi launched Universal Account Number for Employees covered by EPFO to enable PF number portability.\n\nThe question of providing for the future of industrial workers after their retirement or for their dependents, in the event of their premature death, engaged the attention of the Central Government for a long time. The first Provident Fund Act passed in 1925 for regulating the provident funds of some private concerns was limited in scope. In 1929 the Royal Commission on Labour stressed the need for formulating schemes for instituting provident funds for industrial workers. In the Indian Labour Conference held in 1948, it was generally agreed that the introduction of a statutory provident fund scheme for industrial workers might be undertaken. To test such a scheme in a restricted field the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme was launched in 1948. The success of this Scheme led to the demand for its expansion to other industries.\n\nAccordingly, close of the year 1951 witnessed the promulgation of the Employees' Provident Funds Ordinance. The Ordinance promulgated on 15 November 1951 was replaced by the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952 which extended to the whole of India except Jammu and Kashmir. The Employees' Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 framed under section 5 of the Act was brought into force by stages and was enforced in its entirety by 1 November 1952.\n\nThe Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 came into effect on 4 March 1952. Six industries namely Cigarettes, Electrical, mechanical or general engineering products, Iron and Steel, Paper and Textiles (made wholly or in part of cotton, wool or jute or silk, whether natural or artificial) came under implementation of the Act wef 1 November 1952 The organisation is administered by a Central Board of Trustees, composed of representatives of the Government of India, State governments, Employers and Employees. The board is chaired by the Union Labour Minister of India. The Chief Executive of the EPFO, the Central Provident Fund Commissioner, reports to the Union Labour Minister through the Secretary of Labour and Employment in the ministry. The headquarters of the organisation is in New Delhi.\n\nThe Constitution of India under \"Directive Principles of State Policy\" provides that the State shall within the limits of its economic capacity make effective provision for securing the right to work, to education and to public assistance in cases of unemployment, old-age, sickness & disablement and undeserved want. The EPF & MP Act, 1952 was enacted by the Parliament of India and came into force with effect from 4 March 1952 as part of a series of legislative interventions made in this direction. Presently, the following three schemes are in operation under the Act:\n\nRetirement fund body EPFO on 21 February 2018 lowered the rate of interest on employees provident fund to 8.55% for 2017-18, from 8.65% in the previous fiscal.\n\nThe orders of the Department can be appealed to Employees' Provident Fund Appellate Tribunal at New Delhi or at Bangalore if the employer is situated in states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, \nTelangana, Goa and Union Territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Puducherry. The Delhi Tribunal is located at Scope Tower, Laxmi Nagar-sss, New Delhi and is presided by Presiding Officer who is a member of Judicial Service and by a Registrar who is deputed from the other central government cadres.\n\nThe EPFO has the dual role of being the enforcement agency to oversee the implementation of the EPF & MP Act and as a service provider for the covered beneficiaries throughout the country.\n\nThe Act is administered by Central Board of Trustees, EPF a Statutory Board constituted by the Central Government under Section 5A of the Act. The CBT, as the Board is informally called, consists of a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, 5 Central Government Representatives, 15 State Government Representatives, 10 Employees' Representatives, 10 Employers' Representatives with Central P.F Commissioner and the Member Secretary to the Board. The Executive Committee of the CBT is constituted from among the members of the CBT to assist the Central Board in discharge of its function related to Administrative matters.\n\nThe officials of the organization in the Cadre of Commissioners are appointed by the Central Board under Section 5D for efficient administration of the Act and Schemes. To this end, the Commissioners of the Organization are vested with vast powers under the statute conferring quasi-judicial authority for assessment of financial liability on the employer, search and seizure of records, levy of damages, attachment and auction of a defaulter's property, prosecution and arrest and detention of defaulters in civil prison etc.\n\nAdministratively, the organization is divided into zones which are headed by an Additional Central Provident Fund Commissioner. At present, there are 10 Zones across the country. Further below, the states have either one or more than one Regional Offices headed by Regional Provident Fund Commissioners (RPFC) (Grade I) which are again sub- divided into Sub-Regions headed by Regional Provident Fund Commissioners (Grade II). To assist them are Assistant Provident Fund Commissioners looking after the enforcement of the Act and Schemes. Many districts in the country have district offices where an assistant provident fund commissioner is stationed for implementation of the scheme and attend to grievances.\n\nThe total manpower of the EPFO is at present more than 20000 including all levels. The Commissioner cadre numbering 815 are recruited directly, competitively, through the Union Public Service Commission of India as well as through promotion from lower ranks. Subordinate Officers (Enforcement Officers/Accounts Officers) are also recruited directly in addition to promotion from the staff cadre of social security assistants.\n\nUAN is Universal Account Number. The UAN is a 12-digit number allotted to employee who is contributing to EPF will be generated for each of the PF member by EPFO. For example, 111222333444. The UAN will act as an umbrella for the multiple Member Ids allotted to an individual by different establishments and also remains same through the lifetime of an employee. It does not change with the change in jobs. The idea is to link multiple Member Identification Numbers (Member Id) allotted to a single member under single Universal Account Number. This will help the member to view details of all the Member Identification Numbers (Member Id) linked to it.\n\nThe Major benefit of UAN or Universal Account Number will include easy tagging of multiple Employee's Provident Fund Member Id under a single number, thus reducing the confusion. The UAN will help in easy transfer and withdrawals of claims. Along with this services like Online Pass-Book, SMS Services on each deposit of contribution and Online KYC Update can be provided on the basis of UAN number. Before that, you need to activate UAN from EPFO portal.\n\nThere are new UAN portal start to check your EPF balance and nowadays all the details like how to check UAN status, download UAN EPF passbook, check EPF balance, provident fund claim and many more facility provided by new UAN portal\n\nEPFO has now started to provide the refund of Administrative charges if all the KYC details are updated for all employees. This incentive program is announced for the Year 2016-2017.\n\nThe member who is unable to withdraw PF for any reason can withdraw without consent of employer. They can submit FORM 19 for EPF (Employees Provident Fund) and FORM 10C for EPS (Employees’ Pension Scheme) with any of the following officials attestation to EPFO office in which their EPF account is maintained.\n\n\nIn March 2018, Union Cabinet claimed that almost 84 million EPFO subscribers did not have birth dates and that father's name was missing in 110 million accounts.\n\nCritics asserted that such excuses were turning common to cancel pension and other annuity schemes without any legal backlash, riot or even public debate. The underlying cause is believed to be unfunded or underfunded risk through longevity swap transactions.\n"}
{"id": "51055314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51055314", "title": "Ernesto Belloni", "text": "Ernesto Belloni\n\nErnesto Belloni (23 August 1883 – 23 November 1938) was an Italian businessman, academic and politician. He was the 1st podestà of Milan from 1926 to 1928. In 1929 he was accused of corruption and condemned to leave his party and then to a 5-years \"confino\". Under Belloni, the public debt of the city of Milan raised from 60 to 185 million \"Lire\" between 1926 and 1927.\n\n"}
{"id": "31582305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31582305", "title": "Geoffry Morgan Pike", "text": "Geoffry Morgan Pike\n\nGeoffrey Morgan Pike (who writes as Geoff Pike and Pai Kit Fai) is an English-born, naturalized Australian writer and cartoonist.\nBorn in Tottenham, Middlesex on 17 October, 1929, to parents Mildred and Robert Pike, he has two siblings Anthony J. Pike and Robert Pike.At age 14 he entered training on the Navy ship Indefatigable, and went to sea in 1945 aged 15. In 1949, Pike emigrated to Australia where he worked in the outback breaking horses, felling trees and sailing aboard deep-sea trawlers before he signed on as an artistic director on many popular cartoons such as \"Beetle Bailey\" and \"Krazy Kat\" with American Paramount Studios. \"Unbearable Bear in T.V. Tours\", an animated cartoon series for Artransa Park Television, featured a globe trotting koala with itchy feet.\n\nPike worked with Bryce Courtenay at McCann Erickson advertising agency, most notably on the Mortein advertisement, \"Louie the Fly\". Bryce wrote the jingle and Geoff created the cartoon and animation. He also created the animation for the McWilliams' monk advertisement and the popular Yowie characters featured in children's picture books and Cadbury's line of confectionery containing small plastic toys.\n\nIn 1977 Pike was diagnosed with throat cancer and learned the art of Chi Kung (also known as Quigong) and traditional Oriental medicine rather than surgery, beating cancer and becoming a master of Chi Kung and creating books and videos teaching others the philosophy and practice of aligning breath, physical activity and awareness for mental, spiritual and corporeal health.\n\nIn 1974 he published the first of many books, \"\". Published by Angus and Robertson, it was the story of a Gweilo (caucasian foreigner) living in Macau and building a boat amongst the locals; a youthful search for adventure and love among the post-war wreckage of 1945 and the horror that was Hiroshima.\n\nPike now writes under the name Pai Kit Fai, which was given to him by his Chinese in-laws. Loosely translated, it means \"White Person of Letters and Grand Ambition'. He has written two books under this nom de plume, \"The Concubine's Daughter\" and \"Red Lotus\".\n\nFiction:\n\nNon Fiction:\n\nAnimated scripts:\n\nChildren’s books, 1995–2001:\n\nChildren’s books, 1964: \"Around the world with Unbearable Bear\" series (adapted by Laurie Sharpe):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13289029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13289029", "title": "Harold Koontz", "text": "Harold Koontz\n\nHarold D. (Howdy) Koontz (May 19, 1909 - February 11, 1984) was an American organizational theorist, professor of business management at the University of California, Los Angeles and a consultant for many of America's largest business organizations. Koontz co-authored the book \"Principles of Management\" with Cyril J. O'Donnell; the book has sold around two million copies and has been translated into 15 languages.\n\nKoontz was born in 1909 in Findlay, Ohio to Joseph Darius and Harriett (Dillinger) Koontz. He obtained his A.B. from Oberlin College, his MBA from Northwestern University in 1931, and his PhD from Yale University in 1935.\n\nKoontz had started his academic career as instructor in business administration at Duke University in the year 1933-34. The next year, 1934-35, he was instructor in accounting and transparency at the University of Toledo. After his graduation in 1935 he was assistant professor in economics at Colgate University until 1942.\n\nIn World War II he served as a chief of traffic at the War Production Board in Washington from 1942 to 1944. Afterwards he moved into industry to be become assistant to the president director of planning at Trans World Airlines from 1945 to 1948. After another two years as director commercial sales at Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corporation, he returned to the academic world. In 1950 he was appointed professor of business management at the University of California, Los Angeles, where in 1962 he became Mead Johnson professor of management.\n\nKoontz was awarded the Mead Johnson award in 1962; the USAF Air Force University award in 1971; the Taylor Key award in 1974; and the Fort Findlay award in 1975. Koontz died at age 75 on February 11, 1984, after suffering from arthritis.\n\nKoontz's approach to management was \"human relations\". His best known advice is \"manage-men-t,\" where \"t\" stands for tactfully.\n\nManagement Definition by H. Koontz \" Management is an art of getting things done through and with the people in formally organized group.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27498081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27498081", "title": "Jan-Eric Sundgren", "text": "Jan-Eric Sundgren\n\nJan-Eric Sundgren (born 1951), is a Swedish engineer who served as Senior Vice President at Volvo Group from 2006 until 2013. Prior to that, he was a Professor of Physics at Linköping University, and served as Rector at Chalmers University of Technology from 1998 until 2006.\n\nSundgren received his M.S. in Electrical Engineering and Applied Physics in 1974 from Linköping Institute of Technology. He briefly studied business economics Karlstad University before joining Ericsson in 1975. Sundgren returned to Linköping University in 1977, receiving his doctorate in Physics in 1982, with his doctoral advisor being material scientist Stig Hagström.\n\nBetween 1985 and 1986, Sundgren did postdoctoral work at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States, before subsequently returning to Linköping University to become a Professor of Physics in 1990. He was also Vice Praeses of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2005, Sundgren served as Rector of Chalmers University of Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "13969558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13969558", "title": "John Armstrong (New Zealand politician)", "text": "John Armstrong (New Zealand politician)\n\nJohn Gordon Armstrong (born 1935) was a New Zealand politician of the National Party.\n\nHe represented the electorate of New Plymouth in Parliament from 1990 to 1993, when he was defeated by the previous Labour MP, Harry Duynhoven.\n\nHe is one of six one-term National MPs who were elected in a swing against Labour in the 1990 election.\n\nHe was born in Wanganui, and attended Wanganui Collegiate School.\n\n"}
{"id": "7422379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7422379", "title": "Juan Araneta", "text": "Juan Araneta\n\nJuan Anacleto Araneta (July 13, 1852 – October 3, 1924), was a pioneer sugar farmer and revolutionary leader during the Negros Revolution.\n\nJuan was born to Romualdo Araneta and Agüeda Torres in Molo, Iloilo, Philippines. The Aranetas later moved to Negros and settled there permanently.\n\nAt the age of 19, he was brought by his brother-in-law, Pedro Sarmiento, to Manila and was enrolled at the Ateneo Municipal de Manila. He showed great promise in school, earning medals of merit for his endeavours. He graduated with a \"perito mercantil\" degree, equivalent to today's bachelor's degree in Commerce. His contemporaries in school included José Rizal, Jose Alejandrino, Cayetano Arellano, and Apolinario Mabini, among others.\n\nUpon returning to Molo, he was elected \"Capitan del Pueblo\", like his father before him. The friars in the province, however, had become suspicious of him, and only the high regard and respect of the people of Bago and the other towns in the province prevented his summary liquidation by the Spanish authorities.\n\nIn 1891, Juan went to Europe with his friend, Don Claudio Reina after his wife died. He had the opportunity to meet many of the Filipino leaders then living in Madrid, London and Paris. As a consequence, the Spanish authorities were even more antagonistic toward him upon his return. As a result, he lost the land that he and his sisters inherited from their parents. He had to take his family to the slopes of Mt. Kanlaon where they started to farm anew. He brought many gadgets to his \"hacienda\" in Dinapalan. One popular tale was his use of a telescope to supervise his laborers in the vast hacienda from afar. It became a legend among the common people that he had magical powers, but in reality, he was only able to see their actions by using the telescope.\n\nHis travels in Europe made him aware of the use of new machinery and tools for agriculture. He imported a sugar mill from England and had it installed in his hacienda in Dinapalan. From time to time, he bought farm implements like a baler for abaca, a rice thresher, and plows of improved models.\n\nThis preference for modern agricultural tools, however, became his undoing. The Spanish authorities grew suspicious of the boatloads of cargo being unloaded near his land in Lumangub. He was arrested and brought to Concordia in January 1897. He was later brought to Himamaylan and then again to Ilog which was then the capital of the province. His diary hinted that even in prison, there were plans to organize the revolutionary forces in the province. There were annotations showing that he made contact with other leaders in the province. He was finally brought to Bacolod where he was released in October 1897.\n\nOn November 5, 1898, (Cinco de Noviembre) a messenger from Talisay brought news that the revolutionaries and the \"cazadores\" were already engaged in skirmishes. At about 1:00 in the afternoon, the revolutionary forces in Bago started marching toward Bacolod. They had only three firearms among them: a Remington rifle, a Mauser rifle, and a shotgun. General Araneta, who led the rebel forces, told his men to cut nipa stems or \"pagong\", and to shoulder these as if these were rifles. In case they contact with each other, the password was to be \"utod\" (brother) in Hiligaynon.\n\nThe Spanish authorities in Bacolod, who saw the rebels marching toward the town, thought that they wanted to surrender their arms. Surprised, the Spaniards were advised by the rebels to surrender in order to avert bloodshed. The Spaniards readily agreed. It was only when Bacolod was already in the hands of the rebels, that the Spanish reinforcements from Iloilo arrived.\n\nThe Spanish Governor of Negros Island, Don Isidro Castro, surrendered to forces under Aniceto Lacson and Juan Araneta at Bacolod on 6 Nov. 1898.\n\nA cantonal form of government was set up in Bacolod with General Aniceto Lacson as President and General Juan Araneta serving as Secretary of War. When the Americans arrived in Iloilo, he counseled the cantonal government to submit to the American forces. This was vehemently opposed and ridiculed by his companions-in-arms. His idea was finally adopted, however, and the Americans occupied Negros without encountering hostilities.\n\nJuan Araneta was married four times to four different women:\n\n\nIn 1904, he was appointed as one of the commissioners to the St. Louis Exposition where he put on exhibit over a thousand varieties of rice, samples of cacao, beans, abaca, and many other agricultural crops from Negros and Panay. All these exhibits were of exceptional merit; as a result, he was awarded with gold and silver medallions. He also developed Buenos Aires Mountain Resort for his large family to use and enjoy. He later gave this property to his daughter Maria A. Matti.\n\nHe kept in touch with new developments in agriculture, either in tools and implements or crops. He tried to grow different crops on his farm and even planted trees that were not endemic to Negros. When the Ma-ao Sugar Central was organized, he became one of its founders. He lent to the corporation the titles of his land to back up the new enterprise. He prevailed upon his lessees to plant wide areas of land to sugar cane. Unfortunately, \"Don Juan\" did not live long enough to realize his dream of seeing the sugar central freed of its obligations. He died on October 3, 1924, leaving behind a large family of about 25 members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3921446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3921446", "title": "Justice and public safety practitioner", "text": "Justice and public safety practitioner\n\nA justice and public safety practitioner is an American public service job role.\n\nThe practitioner is a local, state, tribal or federal government employee who devotes his or her time to the practice of providing, administering or promoting justice and public safety services according to the laws, policies and practices of the government entity they serve. They are mindful of national standards and codes of conduct and often are members of state or national organizations that seek to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of their profession.\n\nPractitioners historically are employed by agencies such as law enforcement, prosecutors/district attorneys, the courts, jail and correctional institutions, supervised custody organizations and the technology organizations that support these agencies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9751056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9751056", "title": "Józef Montwiłł", "text": "Józef Montwiłł\n\nJózef Montwiłł (9 March 1850 in (now Kėdainiai district, Lithuania) – 7 February 1911) was a Polish-Lithuanian social worker, bank owner and philanthropist, notable for the many social societies he founded. A descendant of a Lithuanian noble family, Montwiłł inherited a significant fortune, which he further increased through banking and investment. He financed numerous courses for the poor, among them was a class of painting and arts, run by - among others - Józef Bałzukiewicz and Ivan Trutnev, from which graduated a renowned Lithuanian artist Juozas Zikaras. \n\nIn 1898 Montwiłł also financed a monument to Adam Mickiewicz in Vilnius, designed by Tadeusz Stryjeński. As the tsarist authorities did not allow the monument to be placed in open space, it was built inside the Saint John's Church. Montwiłł also created the \"Lutnia\" Artistic Society and financed the construction of the society's theatre, in currently Lithuanian National Drama Theatre. Among other societies he formed and financed was the Society of Friends of Sciences, one of the founding members of the Polish Academy of Sciences. \n\nMontwiłł also financed the creation of a Polish school in Vilnius (1907), a city hall in Panevėžys; built already after his death, and the Polish Theatre in Vilnius (in modern times converted to \"Russian Dramatic Theatre of Lithuania\"). He died in 1911 and was buried at the Rossa cemetery (Lithuanian: Rasos). His tomb, designed by Zygmunt Otto, was decorated with a sculpture of an angel. Although vandalized in recent times, the tomb remains there. In 1935 a monument to Montwiłł was erected in front of the Franciscan Church. A monument in his honour was built in the square, located in the former Franciscan cemetery in the Trakai Street of Vilnius.\n\nIn modern times the Polish Culture in Lithuania Fund () has adtoped Montwiłł as its patron.\n"}
{"id": "43209272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43209272", "title": "Lee Jae-yong (businessman)", "text": "Lee Jae-yong (businessman)\n\nLee Jae-yong (; born 23 June 1968), known professionally in the West as Jay Y. Lee, is a South Korean business magnate and the vice chairman of Samsung Group, serving as de facto head. He is the eldest child and only son of Hong Ra-hee and Lee Kun-hee, Chairman of Samsung, and is widely considered to be his father's future successor. He is referred to as the \"Crown Prince of Samsung\" by the South Korean media, and speaks Korean, English and Japanese. Lee is estimated to be worth US$7.9 billion, making him the third wealthiest person in South Korea.\n\nIn 2014, Lee was named the world's 35th most powerful person and the most powerful Korean by Forbes Magazine's List of The World's Most Powerful People along with his father.\n\nJae-yong was born in Seoul, South Korea to Lee Kun-hee. He received his B.A. in East Asian history from Seoul National University, and his M.B.A. from Keio University. He attended Harvard Business School for about five years in pursuit of a Doctor of Business Administration degree, but did not graduate.\n\nJae-yong started working for Samsung in 1991. He began serving as Vice President of Strategic Planning and then as \"Chief Customer Officer\", a management position created exclusively for Lee. His prospects for future company leadership dimmed when his father Kun-hee stepped down as Chairman due to tax evasion. In December 2009, however, his succession prospects revived when Lee became the Chief Operating Officer of Samsung Electronics. Since December 2012, he has been Vice Chairman of Samsung. He is one of the main shareholders of Samsung's financial services subsidiary, owning 11 percent of Samsung SDS.\n\nIn January 2017, Lee was accused \"of bribery, embezzlement and perjury\" by the South Korean prosecutor's office, and after an investigation, he was arrested on February 16, 2017. On August 25, 2017 Lee was sentenced to 5 years in prison after being found guilty of corruption. The appeals court suspended his sentence on February 5, 2018 and reduced it to 2.5 years, releasing him.\nThe arrest of Jay Y. Lee was largely prompted by the investigation of the Choi Soon-sil scandal, that could be traced back to the shift of the father-to-son ownership of Samsung in 2014. His involvement in bribery with the then-South Korean President was first brought to the table by an arrest warrant issued by the South Korea prosecutor's office in January, which led to his arrest in mid-February. On January 12, 2017, the special prosecutor's office said it would decide \"soon\" whether to seek an arrest warrant for Lee. He was questioned for more than 22 hours for suspicion of illegal activities including bribery in a scandal that consumed president Park Geun-hye.\n\nOn January 16 2017, when the prosecutor's office finally decided to seek an arrest warrant for Lee, the warrant was denied based on a court ruling from 19 January, with the Central District Court Justice Cho Eui-yeon stating that it was \"difficult to recognize the need\" for his incarceration. On 17 February 2017, Lee was \"formally arrested after the Seoul central district court issued a warrant on the night\" of 16 February for \"handing bribes worth almost £30m to then South Korean president Park Geun-hye and her close friend Choi Soon-sil to win government favours for a smooth leadership transition.\"\n\nSubsequent to his arrest, Samsung admitted to making contributions to two non-profit foundations allegedly controlled by Choi and her Germany-based firm, but denied such contributions were related to the 2015 merger. A spokesman for Samsung said: “We will do our best to ensure that the truth is revealed in future court proceedings.” On February 28, 2017, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that \"South Korean prosecutors said they would indict the Samsung conglomerate’s de facto leader Lee Jae-yong on charges of bribery and four other offenses.\" It was reported on August 7, 2017, that prosecutors demanded a twelve-year sentence for Lee. On August 25th, Lee Jae-yong was sentenced to 5 years in jail. He will now be in prison pending a trial in the appellate court.\n\nIn February 2018, Jay Y. Lee was freed from jail after a South Korean court suspended his five year jail term for bribing ex-president, Park Geun-hye.\n\nAccording to an article in \"Reuters\", he known for his \"cold\" determination and polite, quiet demeanor. Lee is known to take time to reply personally to e-mails, and assumes a light-hearted attitude with reporters.\n\nLee is rarely seen in public and avoids publicity. He has two younger sisters, Lee Boo-jin, Lee Seo-hyun, and was the older brother of the late Lee Yoon-hyung.\n\nHe has one son and one daughter with his ex-wife Lim Se-ryung, whom he divorced in 2009. Lee enjoys golf and horseback riding.\n\n"}
{"id": "54669808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54669808", "title": "Lee Man Tat", "text": "Lee Man Tat\n\nLee Man Tat BBS (born 1929) is a Hong Kong billionaire, the chairman of the family-owned Chinese sauce and condiment company Lee Kum Kee. His wealth is estimated at $11.6bn, according to Forbes and in July 2017 the group purchased London's landmark Walkie-Talkie skyscraper.\n\nLee Man Tat was born in Macau in 1929. He is the eldest son of Lee Siu-nam, who was the third son of Lee Kum-sheung, who founded the company and invented oyster sauce in Zhuhai in 1888.\n\nLee joined Lee Kum Kee and took over the running of the company from his father in 1972, when he bought out his uncles with the help of his father. In 1986, he bought his younger brother's 40% stake.\n\nLee is married, with five children, and lives in Hong Kong. His eldest son, Lee Wai-chung, joined the business in 1985.\n"}
{"id": "8278314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8278314", "title": "Libby Holman", "text": "Libby Holman\n\nElizabeth Lloyd Holzman, best known as Libby Holman (May 23, 1904 – June 18, 1971), was an American singer and actress who also achieved notoriety for her complex and unconventional personal life.\n\nElizabeth Lloyd Holzman was born May 23, 1904, in Cincinnati, Ohio, the daughter of a lawyer and stockbroker, Alfred Holzman (August 20, 1867 – June 14, 1947) and his wife, Rachel Florence Workum Holzman (October 17, 1873 – April 22, 1966). Her family was Jewish. Their other children were daughter Marion H. Holzman (January 25, 1901 – December 13, 1963) and son Alfred Paul Holzman (March 9, 1909 – April 19, 1992).\n\nIn 1904, the wealthy family grew destitute after Holman's uncle Ross Holzman embezzled nearly $1 million of their stock brokerage business. At some point, Alfred changed the family name from Holzman to Holman. Libby graduated from Hughes High School on June 11, 1920, at the age of 16. She graduated from the University of Cincinnati on June 16, 1923, with a Bachelor of Arts degree. Holman later subtracted two years from her age, insisting she was born in 1906, the year she gave the Social Security Administration as the year of her birth.\n\nIn the summer of 1924, Holman left for New York City, where she first lived at the Studio Club. Her first theater job in New York was in the road company of \"The Fool\". Channing Pollock, the writer of \"The Fool\", recognized Holman's talents immediately and advised her to pursue a theatrical career. She followed Pollock's advice and soon became a star. An early stage colleague who became a longtime close friend was future film star Clifton Webb, then a dancer. He gave her the nickname, \"The Statue of Libby\".\n\nHer Broadway theatre debut was in the play \"The Sapphire Ring\" in 1925 at the Selwyn Theatre, which closed after thirteen performances. She was billed as Elizabeth Holman. Her big break came while she was appearing with Clifton Webb and Fred Allen in the 1929 Broadway revue \"The Little Show,\" in which she first sang the blues number, \"Moanin' Low\" by Ralph Rainger, which earned her a dozen curtain calls on opening night, drew raves from the critics and became her signature song. Also in that show, she sang the Kay Swift and Paul James song, \"Can't We Be Friends?\"\n\nThe following year, Holman introduced the Howard Dietz and Arthur Schwartz standard \"Something to Remember You By\" in the show \"Three's a Crowd\", which also starred Allen and Webb. Other Broadway appearances included \"The Garrick Gaieties\" (1925), \"Merry-Go-Round\" (1927), \"Rainbow\" (1928), \"Ned Wayburn's Gambols\" (1929), \"Revenge with Music\" (1934), \"You Never Know\" (1938, score by Cole Porter), during which production she had a strong rivalry with the tempestuous Mexican actress Lupe Vélez; and her self-produced one-woman revue \"Blues, Ballads and Sin-Songs\" (1954).\n\nOne of Holman's signature looks was the strapless dress, which she has been credited with having invented, or at least being one of its first high-profile wearers.\n\nHolman was married three times and had a variety of intimate relationships with both men and women. Her lesbian lovers included DuPont heiress Louisa d'Andelot Carpenter, actress Jeanne Eagels, and writer Jane Bowles. Carpenter was to play a significant part throughout Holman's lifetime. They raised their children and lived together and were openly accepted by their theater companions. She scandalized some by dating much younger men, such as American actor Montgomery Clift, whom she mentored.\n\nHolman took an interest in one fan, Zachary Smith Reynolds, the heir to the R. J. Reynolds tobacco company. He was smitten with her from the start despite being seven years younger. They met in Baltimore, Maryland in April 1930 after he saw her performed in \"The Little Show\". He asked his friend Dwight Deere Wiman, the producer of the show, to introduce him to her. He pursued her around the world in his plane.\n\nWith the persuasion of her former lover, Louisa d'Andelot Carpenter, Holman and Reynolds, who went by his middle name, married on November 29, 1931 in the parlor of a house in Monroe, Michigan. Reynolds wanted Holman to abandon her acting career. She took a one-year leave of absence. But his family was unable to bear Holman and her theater friends, who at her invitation often visited Reynolda, the family estate near Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Arguments were common.\n\nAt a party at Reynolda in 1932, Holman told her husband she was pregnant. The party was for Charles Gideon Hill Jr., a friend of Reynolds and a cousin of his first wife, Anne Ludlow Cannon Reynolds. A tense argument ensued. Moments later a shot was heard. Friends discovered Reynolds bleeding and unconscious with a gunshot wound to the head. Authorities ruled the shooting a suicide, but a coroner's inquiry ruled it murder. Holman and Albert Bailey \"Ab\" Walker, a friend of Reynolds and an alleged lover of Holman, were indicted for murder.\n\nCarpenter paid Holman's $25,000 bail at the Rockingham County Courthouse in Wentworth, North Carolina. Holman wore a heavy veil and dark dress, and bystanders and reporters thought he was black or of mixed race. Fearing a scandal, the Reynolds family contacted the local authorities and had the charges dropped. On January 10, 1933, Holman gave birth to Christopher Smith \"Topper\" Reynolds.\n\nJournalist Milt Machlin investigated the death of Reynolds and argued that he committed suicide. In his account Holman was a victim of the anti-Semitism of local authorities. The district attorney involved with the case later told Machlin that she was innocent. A 1933 film, \"Sing, Sinner, Sing\", was loosely based on the allegations surrounding Reynolds' death.\n\nIn March 1939, Holman married Ralph (pronounced \"Rafe\") Holmes, a film and stage actor twelve years younger. She had dated his older brother, Phillips Holmes. In 1940, both brothers, who were half-Canadian, joined the Royal Canadian Air Force. Phillips Holmes was killed in a collision of two military aircraft on August 12, 1942. When Ralph Holmes returned home in August 1945, the marriage soured and they separated. On November 15, 1945, Ralph Holmes was found dead in his Manhattan apartment from a barbiturate overdose at age 29.\n\nHolman adopted two sons, Timmy (born October 18, 1945), and Tony (born May 19, 1947). Her biological son Christopher (\"Topper\") died on August 7, 1950 after falling while mountain climbing. She had given him permission to go mountain climbing with a friend on Mount Whitney, the highest peak in California, but was unaware that the boys were ill-prepared for the adventure. Both died. Those close to Holman claim she never forgave herself.\n\nIn the 1950s, Holman worked with her accompanist, Gerald Cook, on researching and rearranging what they called earth music. It was primarily blues and spirituals that were linked to the African American community. She was involved in the Civil rights movement and became a close friend and associate of Martin Luther King Jr.\n\nAfter the death of her son Christopher, she created the Christopher Reynolds Foundation to support equality, international disarmament, and the resolution of environmental problems. Over time the foundation narrowed its scope to more specific causes, such as relations between Cuba and the U.S. She contributed to the defense of Benjamin Spock, the pediatrician and writer arrested for taking part in antiwar demonstrations.\n\nThrough this foundation she provided funds for King's trip to India with his wife, Coretta Scott King, to meet followers of Mahatma Gandhi whom he referred to as \"the guiding light of our technique of nonviolent social change\".\n\nDuring World War II, she tried to organize shows for servicemen with her friend Josh White, but they were turned down on the grounds that \"we don't book mixed company.\"\n\nOn December 27, 1960, she married sculptor Louis Schanker. Although she had enough money after her marriage to Reynolds, she continued to perform and make records.\n\nHolman reportedly suffered from depression because of: the deaths of John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr., the presidential election loss by Eugene McCarthy, the deaths of young men in the Vietnam War, the death of her son, and the illness of her friend Jane Bowles. Friends said she lost her vitality after the death of Montgomery Clift in 1966.\n\nOn June 18, 1971, Holman was found nearly dead in the front seat of her Rolls Royce. She was taken to the hospital where she died hours later. Her death was ruled a suicide due to carbon monoxide poisoning. In view of her bouts with depression and reported past suicide attempts, none of Holman's friends or relatives was surprised by her death. She was cremated and her ashes scattered at Treetops.\n\nIn 2001, a successful effort was made by citizens to save Treetops, her Connecticut estate, from development. It straddles the border of Stamford and Greenwich. As a result, the pristine grounds were preserved. Treetops is part of the Mianus River State Park, which is overseen by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection. Treetops is south of the Mianus River Park. The mansion is privately owned. In 2006, Louis Schanker's art studio on a hill overlooking the property became the home of the Treetops Chamber Music Society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28014438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28014438", "title": "Lucie Bigelow Rosen", "text": "Lucie Bigelow Rosen\n\nLucie Bigelow Rosen (born 1890 Bernardsville, New Jersey died 27 November 1968 New York) was a Theremin soloist known for popularising the use of the instrument in the 1930s and 1940s, and founder of the Caramoor festival.\nRosen was born Lucie Bigelow Dodge in 1890, and married the lawyer and banker Walter Tower Rosen in 1914. They shared a common passion in art and culture, especially Italian, making frequent European trips and collecting works of art for their Caramoor estate that they developed from 1929 to 1939.\n\nBy 1930 Lucie was part of a ten-person theremin ensemble rehearsing for their debut at the Carnegie Hall with Leon Theremin. Sometime afterward, the Rosens offered Theremin the use of their 37 West Fifty-fourth Street townhouse at low rent. By 1938 Leon Theremin needed money to return to Russia and, according to the Rosen's daughter Anne Stern, Walter offered him ten thousand dollars to create a new machine for Lucie together with all technical papers and rights to produce more for personal use only.\n\nAfter Walter died in 1951, Lucie expanded the musical performances they had both started in 1940 into the Caramoor festival.\n\nHer parents were Flora Bigelow and Charles Stuart Dodge; they divorced in 1902 and Flora was given custody of Lucie and her brother John Bigelow Dodge. She remarried to Lionel Guest, a cousin of Winston Churchill and moved to Canada and later to London. Lucie's paternal grandfather was Charles C. Dodge who was a brigadier-general during the American Civil War and had married Maria Theresa Schieffelin, daughter of Bradhurst Schieffelin. Her great grandfather was William E. Dodge who helped found Phelps Dodge & Co and secured the family wealth. Her maternal grandfather was John Bigelow husband of Jennie Tunis Poultney.\n\nIn 1913 Lucie disappeared from her mother's home in London, resulting in a much publicized search involving Scotland Yard. She was discovered six days later living in London's West End theatre district. She returned home but soon after moved to New York and married Rosen. They had two children, Anne and Walter; he was killed in 1944 on a training mission in England whilst serving with the Royal Canadian Air Force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "460249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460249", "title": "Marie-Chantal, Crown Princess of Greece", "text": "Marie-Chantal, Crown Princess of Greece\n\nMarie-Chantal, Crown Princess of Greece (Marie-Chantal Claire; \"née\" Miller; born 17 September 1968) is the wife of Pavlos, Crown Prince of Greece, son of Constantine II of Greece and Anne-Marie of Denmark. Her husband is the heir apparent to the defunct throne of Greece, as the monarchy was abolished in 1973. She is a Danish princess by marriage, as her husband is a male-line descendant of Christian IX of Denmark.\n\nMarie-Chantal Miller was born in London, England, to María Clara \"Chantal\" Pesantes Becerra, an Ecuadorian, and Robert Warren Miller, an American-born British businessman. She has an older sister, Pia, ex-wife of Christopher Getty, and a younger sister, Alexandra, ex-wife of Prince Alexander von Fürstenberg. She was baptized in the Catholic Church at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City by Cardinal John O'Connor, Archbishop of New York with Princess Donatella Missikoff Flick as her godmother.\n\nMarie-Chantal was raised in Hong Kong where she attended The Peak School until she was 9 years-old when she went to board at Institut Le Rosey in Switzerland. In 1982 she transferred to the Ecole Active Bilingue in Paris until her senior year which she took at The Masters School in New York which was then girls only. After graduating she attended the Academy of Arts for one year. She began a degree in History of Art at New York University in 1993 but dropped out a year later after Pavlos, Crown Prince of Greece, proposed to her on a skiing holiday in Gstaad, Switzerland, at Christmas.\n\nMarie-Chantal is the Founder and Creative Director of Marie-Chantal, an international childrenswear brand founded in 2000.\nShe is a trustee of the Royal Academy Trust and a board director of DFS Group Ltd.\n\nIn 1995, Marie-Chantal became engaged to Pavlos, Crown Prince of Greece, son of the deposed King Constantine II and Queen Anne Marie. She converted from Roman Catholicism to Greek Orthodoxy on 22 May 1995 in a private Chrismation (confirmation) ceremony held at St Paul's Chapel in New York. Her engagement ring was a cabochon-cut sapphire and heart-shaped diamond ring. The wedding was planned by Lady Elizabeth Anson and Robert Isabell. Marie-Chantal wore a Valentino dress. The ceremony was held on 1 July 1995 at St Sophia's Cathedral in London. Attendees included many members of European royal families.\n\nThe couple have five children: Princess Maria-Olympia (born 25 July 1996), Prince Constantine-Alexios (born 29 October 1998), Prince Achileas-Andreas (born 12 August 2000), who were born at Weill Cornell Medical Center in New York City, Prince Odysseus-Kimon (born 17 September 2004 at Portland Hospital in London), and Prince Aristidis-Stavros (born 29 June \n2008 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles).\n\nIn 2010, the British employment tribunal ordered Marie-Chantal Miller to pay a £7,500 compensation fine for illegal dismissal of her Filipino maid and for disregarding \"the proper dismissal process\" .\n"}
{"id": "28130314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28130314", "title": "Minnie Mortimer", "text": "Minnie Mortimer\n\nMarian Fountain \"Minnie\" Mortimer (born 1980) is an American fashion designer and socialite.\n\nBorn on Manhattan's Upper East side, Mortimer was raised between Manhattan, Palm Beach and Southampton. She attended The Brearley School,Indian Mountian School,the Convent of the Sacred Heart, and St. Marks School, a boarding school in Southborough, Massachusetts. Mortimer studied photography in New York and worked with photographer Oberto Gili. A member of the prominent Standard Oil family, Mortimer is the great-granddaughter of its president Henry Morgan Tilford. She is the daughter of Senga Mortimer, an editor at House Beautiful magazine, and John Jay Mortimer, a direct descendant of John Jay, the first Chief Justice of the United States.\n\nIn 2009, Mortimer launched an eponymous woman's sportswear line with a feature in Vogue Magazine. Her designs have been featured in \"Marie Clair\", \"InStyle\", \"Elle\", \"Vogue Nippon\", \"Teen Vogue\", \"Paper Magazine\", \"The New York Times\", \"Cosmopolitan\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", as well as others. She designed an exclusive collection for the W Hotels Global Glam line in the Fall of 2010. In the Spring of 2013 Mortimer designed a capsule collection for Three Dots U.S. and Three Dots Japan under the joint label \"Minnie Mortimer for Three Dots.\" Mortimer frequently collaborates with and consults for the American heritage brand Boast USA producing several pieces under the label \"Minnie Mortimer X Boast USA\".\n\nIn addition to working as a designer and stylist Minnie Mortimer has appeared in the print and video advertising campaigns for Hogan and Ferragamo. She also appeared as herself in the WB show \"Gossip Girl\".\n\nOn May 19, 2007 she married the American Oscar and Emmy-winning filmmaker Stephen Gaghan. Together they have:\n\n\nIn 2014, they listed their Brentwood home for sale for $4.995 million. In 2016, they were living in Pacific Palisades.\n\n"}
{"id": "23702566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23702566", "title": "National Market Traders Federation", "text": "National Market Traders Federation\n\nThe National Market Traders' Federation is an organisation based in the borough of Barnsley, South Yorkshire.\n\nIt was founded in 1899 by a group of Yorkshire West Riding market traders to represent their interests on a broader level. There are around 1,400 markets in the UK.\n\nIt maintains a database of all markets in the UK, including number of stalls and who to contact. It also offers insurance deals for market traders. It has negotiated deals with large companies, such as the AA, for favourable rates for market traders. Single membership from 21 July 2012 is £102.\n\n"}
{"id": "5818314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5818314", "title": "Neonopolis", "text": "Neonopolis\n\nNeonopolis, a shopping mall, is a $100 million entertainment complex in Las Vegas, Nevada located on top of a $15 million city parking garage. It is located on Fremont Street, at the corner of Las Vegas Boulevard. In keeping with the complex's name, it contains three miles of neon lights.\n\nThree open-air levels surround an outdoor center courtyard with stage, sound and seating. Bands and concerts were scheduled during the summer months during its heyday.\n\nPlans for Neonopolis were announced in December 1997. It opened on May 3, 2002.\n\nIn 2006, Prudential Real Estate sold Neonopolis to a development group led by Rohit Joshi for $25 million. Joshi undertook an abortive rebranding of the center as Fremont Square, but ultimately the Neonopolis name was retained. After temporarily closing in 2010 for redevelopment, Neonopolis underwent renovations in 2011 and reopened with new tenants.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "487484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487484", "title": "Oakes Ames", "text": "Oakes Ames\n\nOakes Ames (January 10, 1804 – May 8, 1873) was an American manufacturer, capitalist, and member of the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts. As a congressman, he is credited by many historians as being the single most important influence in the building of the Union Pacific portion of the transcontinental railroad. He is also noted for the subsequent scandal that alleged the improper sale of stock of the railroad's construction company.\n\nAmes was born in Easton, Massachusetts, the son of Oliver Ames, Sr., a blacksmith who had built a business of making shovels, the Ames Shovel Shop, and became nicknamed \"King of Spades\". In his youth, he obtained a public school education and later worked in the family workshops to learn each step of the manufacturing process. He eventually became a partner in the business, and with his brother Oliver Ames, Jr. he established the firm Oliver Ames & Sons. Driven by the settlement of the Midwest, by the discovery of gold in California and Australia, as well as by railroad construction, the shovel manufacturing business boomed. During the Civil War, the firm prospered with contracts for swords, shovels, and other tools and implements. Ames made a large fortune.\n\nHe was influential in the establishment of the Republican Party in Massachusetts. In 1860, he became a member of the executive council of Massachusetts, and from 1863 to 1873 he served as a U.S. Congressman from the Second District of Massachusetts. In Congress, he became a member of the Committee on Railroads during the early building of the transcontinental railroad. In 1865, President Abraham Lincoln appealed to him to take control of the Union Pacific (UP) portion of the project, which had become mired down because of the war, and had built only of track.\n\nThrough his influence he obtained contracts for his family firm in the construction of the Union Pacific and staked nearly all the family's holdings as capitalization for the project. The contracts were later transferred to the Credit Mobilier Company of America after Ames ousted its founder Thomas Durant. His brother Oliver was appointed president of the UP in 1866. The railroad was completed in 1869.\n\nIn 1872, it was disclosed Ames sold shares in Credit Mobilier to fellow congressmen at a price greatly below the market value of the stock. The subsequent public scandal led to a House investigation, which formally recommended expulsion. On February 28, 1873, the House passed a resolution formally censuring Ames \"in seeking to secure congressional attention to the affairs of a corporation in which he was interested, and whose interest directly depended upon the legislation of Congress, by inducing members of Congress to invest in the stocks of said corporation.\" Detractors referred to him as \"Hoax Ames.\" Ames died soon afterward at North Easton, Massachusetts.\n\nOn May 10, 1883, the 14th anniversary of the completion of the railroad, the state legislature of Massachusetts passed a resolution exonerating Ames. His son Oliver Ames served as Governor from 1887 to 1890.\n\nThe contributions of Ames and his brother Oliver in the building of the Union Pacific are commemorated in the Oliver and Oakes Ames Monument at Sherman Summit, near Laramie, Wyoming, along the original route. The pyramidal monument was designed by famous architect Henry Hobson Richardson (who designed a number of projects for the Ames family) with sculpted plaques of the Ames brothers by Augustus Saint-Gaudens. At the time of its construction, the monument was located at the highest point attained by the UP's transcontinental route. With a change in the route of the railroad, the monument today is not on any major transportation route.\n\nThe city of Ames, Iowa is named for Oakes, as is likely the community of Ames, Nebraska. The public high school in Easton, Massachusetts is named Oliver Ames High School.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4799127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4799127", "title": "Olof Aschberg", "text": "Olof Aschberg\n\nOlof Aschberg (22 July 1877 – 21 April 1960) was a Swedish banker and businessman. Aschberg was a leftist sympathizer and helped finance the Bolsheviks in Russia. In gratitude, the Bolshevik government allowed Aschberg to do business with Soviet Union during the 1920s. In 1922, Aschberg founded Roskombank, the first Soviet international bank.\n\nOlof founded in Stockholm the first Swedish bank for trade unions and cooperatives (Nya Banken) in 1912 and became a friend of Hjalmar Branting. When financial operations in favour of the Germans in 1918 caused him trouble with the Allies of World War I, the bank was renamed Svensk Ekonomiebolaget. He was already a successful banker and businessman when he met first Willi Münzenberg who visited the Stockholm Youth Socialist Congress of 1917. Later, during the Bolsheviks aspirations to rebuild the Russian economy, it was Münzenberg's task to expand their modest pool of capital by floating a so-called \"workers' loan\" using his \"Workers International Relief\" (WIR). By means of this subterfuge the money used for buying machines and goods in the West looked like being the outcome of proletarian support, in reality it came directly from the Kremlin, confiscated from Russia's rich and the Church. Established in Berlin in the 1920s, Aschberg's Guarantee and Credit Bank for the East was charged with repayment of the WIR workers' loan, although he had not been very fond of it from its very beginning on and had even contributed to deep six it soon after the launch. Aschberg had already gained the Soviet leaders' esteem by being one of the main connections in the early years after 1917 in evading the international boycott on gold robbed by the Bolsheviks, which he offered on the Stockholm market after having the bullions melted down and given new markings.\n\nHe built up a collection of Russian icons with 245 pieces which he donated to the Swedish Nationalmuseum at Stockholm in 1933. This largest and finest collection of icons outside Russia was supplemented in 1952 and put the Nationalmuseum among the leading museums in this field.\n\nAt the end of the 1920s Aschberg moved to France, where he bought Château du Bois du Rocher at Jouy-en-Josas, in 1950 offered to the Unesco and subsequently sold to the Yvelines department. He helped finance the Popular Front during the Spanish Civil War. Again Münzenberg was often invited to Aschberg's Paris townhouse on the place Casimir-Périer and received the funds for launching \"Die Zukunft\" (The Future), a weekly political broadsheet. The Left Bank townhouse was gradually transformed into a kind of all-purpose Münzenberg salon, which did attract the attention of the Gestapo, spying on the meetings taking place there. With the outbreak of World War II Aschberg was interned in Camp Vernet by the French authorities. Due to his Jewish background he was endangered when France was invaded by Nazi Germany in 1940 and could not sooner as January 1941 leave Europe via Lisbon when Vichy government gave order to set him free. Aschberg and his family fled to the United States where he immediately started to support the Free World Association. After the war, Aschberg moved back to Sweden. In 1946 he started publishing his memoirs in three volumes (\"En vandrande jude från Glasbruksgatan\", \"Återkomsten\", and \"Gästboken\") and he invited Margarete Buber-Neumann to write there \"Under Two Dictators: Prisoner of Stalin and Hitler\".\n\nOlof is the grandfather of the journalists Robert Aschberg and Richard Aschberg.\n"}
{"id": "23424895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23424895", "title": "Pedro Collor de Mello", "text": "Pedro Collor de Mello\n\nPedro Affonso Collor de Melo (14 December 1952 – 19 December 1994) was the brother of former Brazilian president Fernando Collor. Working for the Collor family's newspaper Gazeta de Alagoas, Pedro Collor gained prominence when he made a series of accusations against his brother, who was then president. The allegations include corruption, and drug use. Pedro Collor's revelations helped precipitate his brother's downfall in 1992. Pedro Collor died of brain cancer in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "40678182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40678182", "title": "Process window", "text": "Process window\n\nThe process window is a graph with a range of parameters for a specific manufacturing process yields a defined result. Typically multiple parameters are plotted in such a graph with a central region where the process behaves well, while the outer borders define regions where the process becomes unstable or returns an unfavourable result. A statistical evaluation of the process performance is further performed by the calculation of the associated Process Window Index.\n\nTypical applications are found in photolithography where the response of a photoresist to parameters like temperature, radiation intensity, critical dimension and sidewall angle of the structures, etc. are plotted versus an optical parameter such as the numerical aperture to optimize the design of an exposure tool or to achieve a reproducible result and high yield.\n"}
{"id": "15097513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15097513", "title": "Reg Revans", "text": "Reg Revans\n\nReginald \"Reg\" William Revans (14 May 1907 – 8 January 2003) was an academic professor, administrator and management consultant who pioneered the use of Action learning. He was also a long jumper who represented Britain at the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam where he finished 32nd in the long jump event. At the first British Empire Games, in 1930, he won the silver medal in both the long jump and triple jump competition.\n\nHe was born at Portsmouth, where his father was a marine surveyor. As a boy he saw his father receive a visit from seaman’s representatives after the wreck of the \"RMS Titanic\". He recollected attending the funeral of Florence Nightingale with his mother.\n\nIn the late 1920s he was a doctoral student in astrophysics at the University of Cambridge. A Commonwealth Scholarship in 1930 took him to study astrophysics and astronomy at University of Michigan, and on his return to Cambridge as a fellow to Emmanuel he worked at the Cavendish Laboratory under Lord Rutherford and Sir J. J. Thomson. There were five Nobel prizewinners in the department, but Revans found them humble enough to share their puzzlements and to listen, rather than claiming to know and be able to instruct. Revans always remembered Albert Einstein saying to him: \"If you think you understand a problem, make sure you are not deceiving yourself.\" It was here that Revans began to develop his thinking on the role of 'non-expert' in problem solving, distinguishing between knowledge and wisdom in so doing.\n\nHe moved into education to become assistant education officer for Essex (1935–1945) and then director of education for the National Coal Board from 1945 to 1950.\n\nIt was at the Coal Board that Revans did much of the early work on developing action learning, working alongside E. F. Schumacher (author of \"Small is Beautiful\") and Eric Trist, whose theories about socio-technical systems have also had an important influence on organisation development. He then moved to the Acton Society Trust where he worked with Teddy Chester. He and Chester both moved to the University of Manchester where Revans became the first professor of industrial management (1955–1965) but left to develop the inter-university action learning programme in Belgium.\n\nRevans strongly held that the key to improving performance lay not with 'experts' but with practitioners themselves. Hence he devised Action Learning as a process whereby the participant studies his own actions and experience in conjunction with others in small groups called action learning sets.\n\nAfter resigning from Manchester University, Revans moved to Belgium where he headed the Inter-University project, which had been set up to improve the ranking of Belgium in the organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development league. Working with five \nuniversities and 23 of the country's largest businesses, Revans' collaborative approaches succeeded in raising Belgium's industrial productivity growth rate above that of the USA, Germany and Japan.\n\nRevans was subsequently awarded with the nation's top honour by the King of Belgium.\n\nIn 1969, he was awarded an Honorary Degree (Doctor of Science) from the University of Bath.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s he travelled round the world several times and wrote his most famous books: \"Developing Effective Managers\" (1971); \"The Origins and Growth of Action Learning\" (1982) and \"ABC of Action Learning\" (1983). From the 1980s Revans worked with public and private sector organisations, in the UK and internationally, advocating the process of action learning as a way of enabling and empowering people to learn with and from each other.\n\nIn the 1990s he was associated with the City of London where he met Raymond Mahoney and Alan Wenham-Prosser who were using his techniques to solve peoples problems of managing their work load in the City, and other personal problems which had become long term when managing difficult situations. Reg Revans was made a Freeman of the City of London for the work which he did.\n\nRevans made furniture as a hobby, played the trumpet and painted — even illustrating small books for his children. As well as being knighted by the King of Belgium, in 1997 he was awarded the freedom of the City of London. Revans died in Wem, Shropshire on 8 January 2003.\n\nRevans is not remembered as one of the best known gurus of management education or organisational development, not least because of his scorn for experts and his championing of ordinary people. However, his ideas have been taught at the Revans Centre for Action Learning and Research (later the Revans Institute), part of the Salford Business School and they are applied in many organisations. His techniques have been applied in many organisations and by management consultants and academics including Richard Brimble, Mike Pedler, Alan Mumford and Richard Hale in the UK, and Michael Marquardt, Yury Boshyk, Robert Kramer and Joe Raelin in the United States.\n\nRecently the Revans Centre has moved to Manchester Business School becoming the Revans Academy. The Revans Collection is to be found at Salford University.\n"}
{"id": "26355955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26355955", "title": "Román Macaya", "text": "Román Macaya\n\nRomán Macaya Hayes (born September 19, 1966) is a Costa Rican entrepreneur, biochemist, and politician. He is most known for his adamant opposition to the Dominican Republic – Central America Free Trade Agreement. He was a presidential pre-candidate for the Citizens' Action Party. He was Costa Rican ambassador in Washington, D.C. between 2014 and 2018 and later Executive President of the Board of Directors of the Costa Rican Social Security Fund.\n\nHe was born on September 19, 1966 in the state of Florida, obtained a Ph.D in biochemistry from the University of California, Los Angeles and a master's degree in Business Administration from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is a member of Costa Rica's \"Junta Directiva de la Cámara Nacional de Agricultura y Agroindustria\" (roughly translated as \"Board of Directors of the Agriculture and Food Industry National Chamber\"), and President of Costa Rica's National Industry of Agrochemicals Association. He is also former President of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs for Costa Rica, which strongly opposed both CAFTA and DR-CAFTA. He is head of the family-owned exporting company Rimacsa.\n\nOn March 4, 2009 he made public his intention to become the Citizen's Action Party's official presidential candidate, his candidature being applauded by Ottón Solís, Epsy Campbell Barr (the other precandidates), and deputy José Merino del Río, leader of Broad Front. He was ultimately defeated on May 31, 2009 during the PAC's National Convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "3351493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3351493", "title": "Salvatore Capezio", "text": "Salvatore Capezio\n\nSalvatore Capezio (1871–1940) was an Italian-born shoemaker who established Capezio, one of the world's largest manufacturers of dance apparel and specialized dance shoes, including ballet pointe shoes.\n\nSeveral scholarships and awards for dancers have been established in Salvatore Capezio's name. \n\n\nBallet shoes\n"}
{"id": "34774898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34774898", "title": "Samuel Batchelder", "text": "Samuel Batchelder\n\nSamuel Batchelder (8 June 1784 in Jaffrey, New Hampshire – 5 February 1879 in Cambridge, Massachusetts) was a United States inventor and author.\n\nHis family moved to New Ipswich when he was young, and by 1808 he was an investor in a cotton factory there, the second that was erected in New Hampshire. In 1825 he moved to Lowell, Massachusetts, where he superintended the erection of the Hamilton Company's mills. In 1831, he was called on to undertake the erection of a cotton mill for the York Manufacturing Company in Saco, Maine, and to superintend its operations. The mills under his management were very successful, and the plant and capital were greatly enlarged.\n\nIn 1846 he moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts, where he continued to reside, and, although a representative in the Massachusetts State Legislature, he yet for many years continued his relations with the mills, being president of the Hamilton Manufacturing Company, the Appleton Company, the Essex Company, the Everett Mills, the York Manufacturing Company, and the Exeter Manufacturing Company. The mills under his supervision had an aggregate capital of about $5,000,000.\n\nAbout 1832, he devised the first stop motion to the drawing frame, which afterward was used both in the United States and England. In 1832 he patented the steam cylinders and connections which became universally used in dressing frames for drying yarns. His greatest invention was the dynamometer used for ascertaining the power for driving machinery. It was first used in the York Co. mills in 1837, and was considered preferable to any known apparatus for determining the power actually used in driving machinery.\n\nIn early life he contributed to the \"Boston Monthly Anthology\" and to the \"Port Folio\". He wrote:\n\nAttribution:\n\nA sketch of his life was published in pamphlet form (Lowell, 1885).\n"}
{"id": "40480411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40480411", "title": "Scope limitation", "text": "Scope limitation\n\nA Scope Limitation is a restriction on the applicability of an [auditor's report] that may arise from the inability to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence about a component in the financial statements. When all the audit procedures that are considered necessary, either by circumstances, engagement, or client limitation, the audit is limited in scope.\n\nAuditing standards suggest that when restrictions imposed by the client significantly limit the scope of the engagement the auditor should consider disclaiming the opinion.\n\nSome scope limitations arise for reasons that are beyond the control of the client, such as fire and flood. Alternative procedures can overcome the risk of the auditor's qualified or disclaimer opinion. Simple procedures to provide sufficient evidence would be necessary for the auditor to adhere to US GAAP.\n\nThe scope limitation should bt of ADAM described before the opinion or disclaimer paragraph.\n"}
{"id": "48347926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48347926", "title": "Soliant Health", "text": "Soliant Health\n\nSoliant Health is a healthcare staffing company that provides medical staff to various healthcare facilities throughout the United States. The company is based in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nIn November 1991, Soliant Health was founded as Elite Medical by David Alexander, with the company initially specializing in travel healthcare. Alexander interpreted a model set by retailer Nordstrom as a way to reduce turnover among his staff by boosting their morale, which in turn would increase the confidence of the healthcare workers they provided. In July 2002, Elite Medical was acquired by Adecco Group North America (then MPS Group Inc.) and was rebranded in March 2003 as Soliant Health, with David Alexander appointed as its president.\n\nSince 2009, Soliant Health has ranked \"The 20 Most Beautiful Hospitals\" in the United States. On their first year making the rankings on the 2009 list, Soliant Health cited a February 2009 by the University of Michigan School of Public Health that one of the factors that made patients happy was the appearance of the hospital.\n\nThe 2015 list includes:\n"}
{"id": "43515818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43515818", "title": "Southwell Business Park", "text": "Southwell Business Park\n\nSouthwell Business Park is a business park on the Isle of Portland, Dorset, England. It is housed at the former Admiralty Underwater Weapons Establishment, which closed in 1995 and became the Southwell Business Park in 1997.\n\nThe Admiralty Underwater Weapons Establishment, built as a Gunnery Establishment at the beginning of the Cold War, was closed in 1995 alongside Portland's naval base. The establishment buildings remained empty for two years, until Roy Haywood and Ray Bulpit, whose business was the acquisition and development of former military sites, purchased the site in 1997. The first tenants of Southwell Business Park arrived that year, and the park continued to expand its range of business tenants. In the 2000s, the site was recorded as employing almost 500 people and being home to over 100 businesses. It was estimated that the total turnover generated at the park from 1997 to 2008 reached over £200 million.\n\nIn 2006, work commenced on developing unused parts of the park, including an unused 1970s-built wing, into the Portland Spa and an 80-bedroom hotel, known as the Venue Hotel. Completed in 2007, the spa included a gym, a fitness studio and an indoor swimming pool. The Orchid Restaurant was also converted from the former AUWE canteen. It was later renamed to the Cliff Panoramic Restaurant and Bar. In 2010, the park went into administration after the UK recession made it difficult to repay borrowed money used to create the spa and hotel. The site was sold to Compass Point Estates. After a succession of ownership changes and names, the tenants of the Ocean Spa took over the hotel and restaurant in 2013.\n\nIn 2016, the Isle of Portland Aldridge Community Academy's new £14 million campus was opened within the park. The Ocean Spa and Hotel had closed in 2014 due to the new school premises, however by 2015 the hotel had reopened with new management, and was named Ocean Hotel and Bar. The hotel is currently known as the Maritime Hotel.\n"}
{"id": "58706263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58706263", "title": "Stephan Aarstol", "text": "Stephan Aarstol\n\nStephan Aarstol is an American internet entrepreneur and author of The Five Hour Workday.\nAarstol grew up in Bellingham, Washington. In September 1999, Aarstol developed a web portal for the medical imaging community. In 2003, he launched a venture producing and selling high-end poker chips. Aarstol quit his day job the following year, by which time his venture was generating $50,000 per month.\n\nAarstol founded Tower Paddle Boards in 2010. Aarstol pitched his business on Shark Tank in 2011. Mark Cuban made an offer and invested $150,000 for a 30% stake in Aarstol’s company.\nIn 2013, Aarstol was featured as one of Shark Tank’s biggest winners by People Magazine. \n\nHis company was ranked San Diego’s number one fastest growing private company in 2014. Jeff Bezos’ 2015 annual letter to stockholders singles out Aarstol and his company. Aarstol was featured on ABC’s Beyond the Tank in January 2016.\n\nIn November 2016, Harvard Business School professor Thales S. Teixeira published a case study on Aarstol and Tower Paddle Boards titled “Selling on Amazon at Tower Paddle Boards”. Aarstol has given several talks at Harvard Business School on the topics of e-commerce and Amazon's role since its publication.\n\nIn June 2016, Aarstol published The Five Hour Workday, a book about switching his company to a five-hour workday and the benefits this change yielded in productivity.\n"}
{"id": "57859510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57859510", "title": "Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit", "text": "Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit\n\nThanathorn Juangroongruangkit (; ) is a Thai politician currently serving as the leader of Future Forward Party. From 2002 to early 2018, Thanathorn was the Vice-President of the Thai Summit Group, Thailand's largest auto parts manufacturer. \n\nThanathorn co-founded the Future Forward Party in March 2018. He was unanimously elected as the party’s leader during its first public meeting in May 2018.\n\nThanathorn was born and raised in Bangkok, the second child of five. His mother, Somporn Juangroongruangkit, is the current President and CEO of the Thai Summit Group, taking over the company from Thanathorn’s father, Pattana Juangroongruangkit, after his death in 2002. Pattana founded the Thai Summit Group in 1977. The Juangroongruangkit family also owns a large stake in the Thai media conglomerate Matichon Publishing Group. \n\nThanathorn’s uncle, Suriya Juangroongruangkit, is a Thai politician who served as Minister of Transport of Thailand between 2002 and 2005. \n\nThanathorn attended the Triam Udom Suksa School in Bangkok. After graduating from high school, Thanathorn obtained a joint-honours Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) in Mechanical Engineering from Thammasat University and the University of Nottingham. During this time, he became President of the Thammasat University Students Union in 1999, and was later named deputy secretary-general of the Students Federation of Thailand. He later decided to pursue his interest in social and economic issues and obtained three master’s degrees: one in Political Economy from Chulalongkorn University, one in Global Finance from Stern School of Business, New York University and one in International Business Law from the University of St. Gallen.\n\nThroughout his studies, Thanathorn was involved with various charities and NGOs calling for social and economic reforms in Thailand, including Friends of the People and the Assembly of the Poor. During this time, Thanathorn campaigned for the land and compensation rights of villagers affected by the Pak Mun dam in the Ubon Ratchathani Province. \n\nHis family also expressed serious concern about Thanathorn's student movement activities. It is disclosed in several interviews that Thanathorn has been in conflict with his uncle, Suriya Juangroongruangkit, since he was young mainly due to their disagreement regarding the Trans Thai-Malaysia Gas Pipeline Project. Thanathorn believes the construction of this dam exemplified the government unaccountability and crony-capitalism that peaked with the 1997 economic crisis.\n\nAfter completing his studies, Thanathorn set out to pursue a career with the United Nations, and was offered a position as a development worker for the UN in Algeria. However, Thanathorn was forced to abandon his plans when his father, Pattana Juangroongruangkit, was diagnosed with cancer. Following his father’s death in 2002, Thanathorn returned to Thailand and assumed leadership of the Thai Summit Group at just 23 years old. \n\nUnder Thanathorn’s leadership, the company’s revenue grew from 16 billion baht in 2001 to 80 billion baht in 2017. Thanathorn oversaw the transformation of the company into a global conglomerate with manufacturing facilities in 7 countries and more than 16,000 employees worldwide. \n\nIn 2005, Thanathorn struck a deal with the American auto-maker, Tesla to supply 500,000 cars per year. The deal was noted as a ‘new record’ for Thai Summit Group with total sales of 7.9 billion baht and a profit of 5.98 billion baht. Thanks to the deal, the Thai Summit Group set up production factories in the United States. In 2009, Thanathorn led the company to acquire the world's largest mould maker, the Japanese company Ogihara.\n\nThanathorn served as the President of the Federation of Thai Industries’ Nakhon Nayok Chapter for two consecutive terms, between 2008 and 2012. He was also the youngest elected Secretary-General of the Thai Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, serving between 2007 and 2010. Thanathorn was also a member of the Industrial Cluster Development Board of Thailand’s National Science and Technology Development Agency.\n\nIn May 2018, after 17 years as Executive Vice-President of the Thai Summit Group, Thanathorn resigned from this position after being elected leader of the Future Forward Party.\n\nOn 15 March 2018, Thanatorn and Piyabutr Saengkanokkul, a former constitutional law professor at Thammasat University, filed for the creation of a new political party, Future Forward (Thai: อนาคตใหม่), with the Election Commission of Thailand. Thanathorn was unanimously elected as the party’s leader at the party’s first public meeting in May 2018.\n\nSince founding the party, Thanathorn has advocated his political vision for the party; the return of civilian government and demilitarization of Thai politics, greater political accountability, a fairer distribution of wealth, social welfare system to promote human dignity and greater decentralisation of power.\n\nIn order to guarantee Future Forward’s independence and transparency, the party has developed a unique funding structure, which relies entirely on donations from party members and supporters. Future Forward Party goal is to raise 350 million baht funds from party members and the public to pursue its campaign in the next 2019 election. \n\nDue to his business experience, young age and political views, international media have drawn a comparisons between Thanathorn and French president Emmanuel Macron and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. \n\nHe is occasionally referred by Thai media as the “Billionaire Commoner” which represents the struggle of social class system in Thailand.\n\nThanathorn and two other senior party members, Jaruwan Sarankate and Klaikong Vaidhyakarn, were charged by police with the Computer Crime Act after an NCPO member filed an allegation against them for transmiting false information or information that damages the country's stability in relation with the Facebook Live Broadcast on 29th June 2018. \n\nThe three politicians were ordered to meet investigators at the Technology Crime Suppression Division (TCSD) on Friday, 24th August 2018 to hear charges against them. Through their lawyer, they asked to postpone the date to 17th September 2018, saying the order had come at a short notice and they were already tied up with their planned schedule. Thanathorn previously appeared on 31st July 2018 as a witness, but refrain his rights to give any statement on the allegation to the officials.\n\nThanathorn is married to Rawiphan Juangroongruangkit. They have four children together.\n\nDuring his spare time, Thanathorn enjoys outdoor activities such as hiking, trekking, climbing, marathons, kayaking, biking, diving and mountaineering. He has participated in various extreme sports competitions, including the Tor Des Géants and the Sahara Marathon. Thanathorn was notably the first Asian to complete the 560KM self-supported foot race above the Arctic Circle.\n\nHe reads The New York Times, The Economist, Financial Times, Matichon Newspaper and Krungthepturakij Newspaper every day. He is a big fan of e-sport and gaming such as Minecraft and ROV.\n\nFacebook page\nTwitter feed\n"}
{"id": "16887875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16887875", "title": "Vistage International", "text": "Vistage International\n\nVistage International is a peer mentoring membership organization for CEOs, business owners and executives of small- to mid-size businesses. Founded in 1957 as The Executive Committee, Vistage has more than 22,000 members in 20 countries.\n\nIn 2018 Vistage was acquired by Providence Equity Partners.\n\n"}
{"id": "33973312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33973312", "title": "Wage theft", "text": "Wage theft\n\nWage theft is the denial of wages or employee benefits rightfully owed an employee. It can be conducted by employers in various ways, among them failing to pay overtime; violating minimum-wage laws; the misclassification of employees as independent contractors, illegal deductions in pay; forcing employees to work \"off the clock\", or simply not paying an employee at all.\n\nAccording to some studies, wage theft is common in the United States, particularly from low wage legal or undocumented immigrant workers. The Economic Policy Institute reported in 2014 that survey evidence suggests wage theft costs US workers billions of dollars a year. Some rights violated by wage theft have been guaranteed to workers in the United States in the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).\n\nAccording to the FLSA, unless exempt, employees are entitled to receive overtime pay calculated at least time and one-half times pay for all time worked past forty hours a week. Some exemptions to this rule apply to public service agencies or to employees who meet certain requirements in accordance to their job duties along with a salary of no less than $455 a week. Despite regulations, there are many employees today who are not paid overtime due them. A 2009 study of workers in the United States found that in 12 occupations more than half of surveyed workers reported being denied overtime pay: child care (90.2 percent denial), stock and office clerks (86 percent), home health care (82.7 percent), beauty/dry cleaning and general repair workers (81.9 percent), car wash workers and parking attendants (77.9 percent), waiters, cafeteria workers and bartenders (77.9 percent), retail salespersons (76.2 percent), janitors and grounds workers (71.2 percent), garment workers (69.9 percent), cooks and dishwashers (67.8 percent), construction workers (66.1 percent) and cashiers (58.8 percent).\n\nIn 2009, reform placed the new United States federal minimum wage at $7.25. Some states have legislation that sets a state minimum wage. In the case an employee is subject to both federal and state minimum wage acts, the employee is entitled to the higher standard of compensation. For tipped employees, the employer is only required to compensate the employee $2.13 an hour as long as the fixed wage and the tips add up to be at or above the federal minimum wage. Minimum wage is enforced by the Wage and Hour Division (WHD). WHD is generally contacted by 25,000 people a year in regards to concerns and violations of minimum wage pay. A common form of wage theft for tipped employees is to receive no standard pay ($2.13 an hour) along with tips.\n\nMisclassification of employees is a violation that leaves employees very vulnerable to other forms of wage theft. Under the FLSA, independent contractors do not receive the same protection as an employee for certain benefits. The difference between the two classifications depends on the permanency of the employment, opportunity for profit and loss, the worker's level of self-employment along with their degree of control. An independent contractor is not entitled to minimum wage, overtime, insurance, protection, or other employee rights. Attempts are sometimes made to define ordinary employees as independent contractors.\n\nMisclassification in the United States is extensive. In New York state, for example, it was found in a 2007 study that approximately 704,785 workers, or 10.3% of the state's private sector workforce, was misclassified each year. For the industries covered in the study, average unemployment insurance taxable wages underreported due to misclassification was on average $4.3 billion for the year and unemployment insurance tax underreported in these industries was $176 million.\n\nEmployees are subject to forms of wage theft through illegal deductions. Trivial to sometimes fabricated violations in the workplace are used to validate deductions. Any deduction that brings an employee to a level of compensation lower than minimum wage is also illegal. In many states, employers are required to issue employees documentation of deductions along with earnings. Failure to issue this documentation is generally prevalent in working places subject to wage theft.\n\nThe most blatant form of wage theft is for an employee to not be paid for work done. An employee being asked to work overtime, working through breaks, or being asked to report early and/or leave late without pay is being subjected to wage theft. This is sometimes justified as displacing a paid meal break without guaranteeing meal break time. In the most extreme cases, employees report receiving nothing. In some cases, the legal status of the workers can enable employers to withhold pay without fear of facing any consequences.\n\nPutting the pressure on injured workers to not file for workers' compensation is frequently successful. Employees are often confronted with threats of firing or calls to immigration services if they complain or seek redress. Workers are often denied time off or vacation time that they have acquired or denied pay for sick leave or vacation time.\n\nIn Australia, another form of wage theft is the failure of employers to pay the mandatory minimum contribution to employee's superannuation fund. Between 2009 and 2013 the Australian Tax Office recovered A$1.3 billion in unpaid superannuation which is estimated to be only a small portion of total unpaid superannuation. \n\nA 2009 study based on interviews of over 4,000 low wage workers in Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York City found that wage theft from low wage workers in large cities in the United States was severe and widespread. Incidents varied with the type of job and employee. Sixty-eight percent of the surveyed workers experienced at least one pay-related violation in the week prior to the survey. On average the workers in the three cities lost a total of $2,634 annually due to workplace violations, out of an average income of $17,616, which translates into wage theft of fifteen percent of income. Extrapolating from these figures, low wage workers in Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York City lost more than $2.9 billion due to employment and labor law violations. Nationally it is estimated that workers are not paid at least $19 billion every year in overtime and that in the US $40 billion to $60 billion in total are lost annually due to all forms of wage theft. This compares to national annual losses of $340 million due to robbery, $4.1 billion due to burglary, $5.3 billion due to larceny, and $3.8 billion due to auto theft in 2012.\n\nStudies have found inflated rates of wage theft violations in markets employing women and foreign-born populations. Within the foreign-born population, women were at a much greater risk for wage violations than their male counterparts. Undocumented workers or unauthorized immigrants stood at the highest risk levels. Education, longer tenured employment, and English proficiency proved to be influential factors in employee populations. All three variables reduced the probability of wage theft for the aforementioned demographics. Workplaces where the compensation was paid in one weekly flat rate or in cash saw a higher instance rate of wage theft. Smaller businesses with less than 100 employees also saw a higher instance rate of violations than larger business. In one study, the manufacturing industry, repair services, and private home employment were at the highest risk for violations at the workplace. Home health care, education, and construction saw the lowest levels of wage theft. Restaurants, grocery stores, retail, and warehousing fell around the median.\n\nIn November 2011, Warehouse Workers helped Wal-Mart warehouse employees file their fourth class-action lawsuit against the warehouse companies. Without Wal-Mart being a direct defendant, the argument was made that Wal-Mart has created this culture amongst the companies it works with. The first lawsuit filed was in 2009. The workers argued that poor record keeping and broken promises have led to workers receiving less than minimum wage. Walmart also denied workers paid vacations that they were promised upon contracting. In a report released on November 26, 2011, a Palm Beach County organization, People Engaged in Active Community Efforts (PEACE), sent postcards to Macy's and Bealls executives as a form of protest. The Florida Retail Federation had recently proposed a bill to block a wage theft ordinance in their county, which was intended to create a system that would speed the investigation and processing of wage theft reports.\n\nA 2012 study by the Iowa Policy Project calculated that dishonest employers defraud Iowa workers out of about $600 million annually in wages. State Senator Tony Bisignano, Democrat from Des Moines and Senator William Dotzler, a Democrat from Waterloo, Iowa, proposed a bill to strengthen wage law enforcement on January 28, 2015, \"since Iowa's wage theft laws are so weak they are impossible to enforce\". The Iowa Association of Business and Industry opposed the bill, saying that resources for enforcement should be the focus instead.\n\nA 2017 report by Middlesex University and Trust for London revealed that at least 2 million workers in Britain are losing an estimated £3 billion in unpaid holiday pay and wages per year. It suggested that withholding holiday pay, not paying wages and workers losing a couple of hours money per week are some of the deliberate strategies used by employers to improve their profits.\n\nIn the United States, the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) requires employers to keep detailed records regarding the identity of workers and hours worked for all workers who are protected under federal minimum wage laws. Most states require that employers also provide each worker with documentation every pay period detailing that worker's hours, wages and deductions. As of September 2011 Arkansas, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Nebraska, South Dakota, Tennessee and Virginia did not require this documentation. A 2008 survey of wage theft from workers in Illinois, New York, and California found that 57% of low wage workers did not receive this required documentation and that workers who were paid in cash or on a weekly rate were more likely to experience wage theft. Anecdotal evidence suggests that tip theft, which is a legally complex issue distinct from wage theft and not necessarily under the control of the same laws governing the payment of wages, may also be common in instances where employer record keeping does not comply with the law.\n\nWhen the Wage and Hour Division (WHD) receives reports of violations, it works to ensure that employers change their work practices and pay back missed wages to the employees. Willful violators can face fines up to $10,000 upon their first conviction with imprisonment resulting from future convictions. In regards to child labor laws, an employer can face a fine of up to $11,000 per minor. In 2012 the Wage and Hour Division collected $280 million in back wages for 308,000 workers. As of 2014, there are 1,100 federal investigators for 135 million workers in more than 7 million businesses. The ratio of labor enforcement agents to U.S. workers has decreased tenfold since the inception of the FLSA from one for every 11,000 workers in 1941 to one for every 123,000 workers in 2014.\n\nIn February 2010 Miami-Dade County, Florida became the first jurisdiction in America to ban wage theft with an ordinance passed unanimously by the county commission. Prior to the ordinance, wage theft was called \"the crime wave that almost no one talks about\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38386236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38386236", "title": "Werner Geissler", "text": "Werner Geissler\n\nWerner Geissler (born 1953) is a German businessman, with extensive experience in the United States, Japan, Europe and Emerging Markets.\n\nWerner Geissler was born in 1953 in Hachenburg (Heuzert), Germany. After graduation from the Gymnasium Marienstatt in 1972, he joined the Air Force. He received an M.B.A. (Diplom-Kaufmann) from the University of Cologne in 1979.\n\nHe joined Procter & Gamble as Assistant Brand Manager after graduation in 1979. He held positions of increasing scope and responsibility in Marketing/Brand Management (e.g. BM for Mr. Proper, Ariel) before becoming Marketing Director in Holland and Germany. In 1991, he was promoted to General Manager of a new Cosmetics and Fragrances business unit before becoming Vice President of Fine Fragrances for the Western Hemisphere, based in Santa Monica/California. Following stints as Vice President for the Laundry, Cleaning & Paper business in Germany as well as subsequently for the operation in Turkey/Caucasia/Central Asia, Geissler became President of P&G's business in Northeast Asia in 2001. In 2004 he was promoted to Group President for the Central & Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa business. In July 2007, he became Vice Chairman in charge of Global Operations with responsibility for all country and manufacturing operations globally and served in this capacity until his retirement in January 2015, after almost 36 years of service.\n\nPost-retirement, Geissler has been an Operating Partner at the Private Equity Firm Advent International. He is also an active investor in several Start ups covering a broad range of industries. Amongst those are Pedilay (a novel foot care product); SpinDiag (a new-to-the-world approach to rapid diagnosis of resistant bacteria) and Superkorb (a unique online grocery shopping tool).\n\nHe sits on the Board of Directors of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Philip Morris International, and he is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. He has been an Advisor to the Governor of the Hyōgo Prefecture in Japan.\n\nHe has served on the Supervisory Board of the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, Switzerland from 2007 to 2017, on the Management Board of GS 1 from 2008 to 2015, and on the Summit Committee of the Consumer Goods Forum. He is the recipient of an Honorary Doctorate from the International University in Geneva. Geissler has also served on the BoD of economiesuisse. In 2005, he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the International University in Geneva and in 2013, Geissler was appointed Visiting Professor at China Executive Leadership Academy in Pudong/Shanghai (CELAP).\n\nGeissler and his family have lived in places like Frankfurt, Rotterdam, Los Angeles, Istanbul, Kobe, Geneva and Cincinnati. He is now based in Munich. In 2012, he served as International Chair of the World Choir Games. In 2018, he served as \"Schirmherr\"of the 750th Anniversary of his birthplace, Heuzert/Westerwald. He is married to his wife Sabine and has 2 daughters, Anna and Lena.\n"}
