{"id": "47676846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47676846", "title": "Adaptive Physical Education Australia", "text": "Adaptive Physical Education Australia\n\nAdaptive Physical Education (APE) is a physical education program that accommodates the needs of students with disabilities, that may include or be a combination of mobility or physical impairments, sensory impairments, intellectual disabilities, emotional or behavioural disorders. Physical education is important for the health and wellbeing of everyone, regardless of disabilities or not. APE programs are vital in maintaining and enhancing the quality of life for people with disabilities.\n\nAustralia’s physical education curriculum for adaptive students is currently the same as students without disabilities. Australian education institutions are required by the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 and the Disability Standards for Education 2005 to instruct physical education to students with disabilities.\n\nAdaptive physical education evolved from medical treatments that were designed to cope with disabilities. In 1838, Perkins School located in Boston, Massachusetts, an educational institute for visually impaired students, began introducing physical education programs for their students. In the 1870s, the Ohio school for the Deaf instituted organised sports into the school for their students. Pehr Henrik Ling, who founded the Swedish School of Sports and Health Sciences in 1813 in Stockholm, Sweden developed medical gymnastic programs for people with disabilities in 1884.\n\nThe legislation for the APE in Australia is as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nImpairments and disabilities for APE students can vary or may even coexist with more than one disability. A students physical capabilities in APE will depend on their impairment or disability. These impairments and/or disabilities need to be addressed in the design of the students APE curriculum by their teachers or instructors of APE to ensure that the student is receiving the most beneficial physical educational program.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStudents with intellectual disabilities need to have APE programs that are appropriately designed and take into consideration their academic, physical, motor, social and emotional skills.\n\nStudents with emotional and behavioural disorders can create instructional dilemmas for APE teachers. Ideas for managing and instructing APE to these students are to have interpersonal communication, active listening, verbal mediation and conflict resolution schemes incorporated into the students physical education program.\n\n\nDisability\n\nSpecial Olympics\n\nSpecial Education\n\nParalympics Games\n"}
{"id": "5806346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5806346", "title": "Alien Flight Student Program", "text": "Alien Flight Student Program\n\nThe Alien Flight Student Program is a program operated by the United States Transportation Security Administration to screen prospective flight student candidates who are not citizens of the United States, before they are allowed to undergo pilot training. This program was created in response to the September 11, 2001 attacks, in recognition of the fact that the individuals who piloted the hijacked aircraft first learned to fly at US flight schools.\n\nThe mission of the program is to ensure that foreign students seeking training at flight schools regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) do not pose a threat to aviation or national security. Section 612 of the Vision 100 – Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act (Public Law 108-176, December 12, 2003) prohibits flight schools regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) from providing flight training to a foreign student unless the Secretary of Homeland Security first determines that the student does not pose a threat to aviation or national security. Vision 100 transferred responsibility for conducting security threat assessments for foreign students seeking flight training from the Department of Justice to the Department of Homeland Security. On September 20, 2004, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) issued an interim final rule establishing the Alien Flight Student Program (AFSP).\n\nPersons seeking flight training must submit a request if they are not citizens or nationals of the U.S. and:\n\n\nThe rule as written has a broad scope, and at first seemed to pilots to extend to required regular flight reviews as well proficiency training given to non-citizen private pilots. After consultation with the pilot community, the TSA issued clarifications restricting the scope of the program: for example, in small airplanes, it only applies to pilots undergoing training for an initial certificate, a multi-engine rating, or an instrument rating.\n\nCandidates log onto the AFSP Candidate website to submit their background information and flight training request(s). Once the application process is completed, the AFSP performs a security threat assessment to determine whether the Candidate poses a threat to aviation or national security.\n\n"}
{"id": "15819831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15819831", "title": "Azerbaijan State University of Culture and Arts", "text": "Azerbaijan State University of Culture and Arts\n\nAzerbaijan State University of Culture and Arts (ASUCA; ) was founded in 1923 on the basis of the Baku Theatrical College. It is Azerbaijan's main state-funded institution of higher education in performing arts.\n\nAzerbaijan State University of Culture and Arts upon its establishment in 1923, operated under the name of Theatrical Institute. The first admitted students were educated in the fields of theatrical performance, acting and filmmaking. In 1954, the Theatrical Institute was named after the famous actor Mirzaagha Aliyev. Since 1959, the school has also trained specialists in Cultural Education and, since 1963, in Applied Decorative Arts. \n\nIn 1968, the Theatrical Institute was renamed into Azerbaijan State Institute of Arts. During 1981-1991, a number of new disciplines were introduced into the curriculum, including Painting, Drawing, Sculpture, Art Specialties, Theatre, Cinema, Culturology, and the Industry of Art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40039750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40039750", "title": "Benjamin Hale (educator)", "text": "Benjamin Hale (educator)\n\nBenjamin Hale (November 23, 1797 – July 15, 1863) was an American educator and clergyman in the nineteenth century. He is notable for teaching at Dartmouth College and becoming the first instructor of the first vocational trade school in America.\n\nHale was born in Newburyport, Massachusetts, on November 23, 1797. His parents were Thomas Hale and Alice Little Hale. He was the oldest of ten children in the family. Hale's father was an eighth generation descendant of a Thomas Hale from Hertfordshire, England, who came to Newburyport around 1637.\n\nHale attended Atkinson Academy starting in 1813. He entered Dartmouth College in 1814. For health reasons he had to temporarily drop out and entered instead Dummer Academy in Byfield, Massachusetts. There he was privately tutored by Rev. Abbott. Hale entered Bowdoin College at the Sophomore class level in February 1816. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from that college in September 1818. Hale first taught a year at Thornton Academy. He was a member of the Theological Seminary at Andover, Massachusetts, in the fall of 1819. Hale became a teacher at Bowdoin College in 1820. He taught Natural Philosophy and Locke's \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" to the Junior class. His teachings to the Sophomore class were in advanced mathematics and logic. Hale received a master's degree in September 1821 and delivered a Latin valedictory oration. While he was a teacher at Bowdoin College Hale pursued theological studies. He became an ordained preacher in 1822 and preached at the Congregational Church in Andover. \n\nIn 1822 Robert Hallowell Gardiner offered Hale a position to become the principal and first main instructor of the first vocational trade school in the United States, a new school in Gardiner, Maine. It was a trade school for the education of farmers and agronomists. Hale accepted the position and delivered an address on the opening of the Gardiner Lyceum on January 1, 1823. Hale established this as the first vocational trade school in America through his curriculum. He had twenty students at the beginning. He organized courses into agricultural chemistry, mathematics, natural philosophy, navigation, surveying, and architecture (using his book \"Mechanical Principles of Carpentry\"). Hale also had various courses in husbandry in the winter months.\n\nHale became professor of chemistry at Dartmouth College in 1827. He was for many years an instructor in the Philosophy of Natural History which he taught to the Senior class. Hale was at Dartmouth College from 1827 through 1835. He was president of Geneva College (later Hobart and William Smith Colleges) from 1836 to 1858. Hale experimented with student government. He started preaching in 1828 and preached often at the Episcopal Church in Dartmouth, Massachusetts.\n\nHale married Mary Caroline King on April 9, 1823.\n\nTheir children were\n\nHale as a youth was known to have the characteristics of a quiet friendly pleasant child and being a studious boy fond of books.\n\nRufus Anderson, Secretary of the American Board of Commissioners of Foreign Missions, Hale’s one time classmate and roommate writes that their lifetime friendship was founded in similar interests. Anderson says Hale had nearly equal knowledge in all branches of study. He continues in Hale’s description of Mathematics, Languages, and Music to be quick and accurate. Anderson says Hale was sociable and willing to strike up a conversation with anyone at any time. Anderson describes Hale as quite religious.\n\nHale died July 15, 1863. The various courses in husbandry in the winter he established at the Gardiner Lyceum was followed later by the majority of the agricultural colleges in the United States. Hale conceived the idea of vocational trade schools now seen throughout the United States and the world by his outline of a planned set of technical courses designed for the practical application of science and mathematics to a specific trade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48656356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48656356", "title": "Bharati Shivaji", "text": "Bharati Shivaji\n\nBharati Shivaji is an Indian classical dancer of Mohiniyattom, choreographer and author, known for her contributions to the art form by way of performance, research and propagation. She is the founder of \" Center for Mohiniyattam\", a dance academy promoting Mohiniyattom and the co-author of two books, \"Art of Mohiniyattom\" and \"Mohiniyattom\". She is a recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award and Sahitya Kala Parishad Samman. The Government of India awarded her the fourth highest civilian honour of the Padma Shri, in 2004, for her contributions to Indian classical dance.\n\nBharati Shivaji was born in 1948 in the temple town of Kumbakonam, in Tanjavur district of the south Indian state of Tamil Nadu, and had her early training in Bharatnatyam under Lalita Shastri and Odissi under Kelucharan Mohapatra. Later, on advice from Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, renowned social reformer, she took up research on Mohiniyattom, the traditional dance form of Kerala. After obtaining a research fellowship from Sangeet Natak Akademi, she traveled to Kerala and pursued research under Kavalam Narayana Panicker, a scholar of the Temple Arts of Kerala and former vice-chairman of Sangeet Natak Akademi. Shifting her focus from Bharatnatyam and Odissi, she started training Mohiniyattom under Radha Marar and, later, under Kalamandalam Satyabhama, and also had a training stint under Kalamandalam Kalyanikutty Amma, considered by many as the \"Mother of Mohiniyattom\".\n\nMoving to New Delhi, Shivaji founded the dance academy, \"Center for Mohiniyattom\", a dedicated facility for promoting the dance form. She is known to have contributed to the evolution of the dance tradition, by adding more languor to the already languorous discipline, and by adapting it to other dance forms such as ballet; her Mohiniyattom adaptation of the Swan Lake of Tchaikovsky, choreographed along with her daughter, Vijayalakshmi, is one such effort. Her productions include adaptations of \"Bhanusinger Padavali\" of Rabindranath Tagore, \"Chandrotsavam\" of the Manipravalam, \"Somastuthi\" from the Rig Veda, and the \"Devagita\", from Ashtapadi. She is known to have incorporated postures, movements and music from other Traditional art forms of Kerala such as Ottamthullal, Kaikottikali, Thayambaka and Krishnanattam into Mohiniyattom, a legacy from her tutelage under Kavalam Narayana Panicker.\n\nIn 1986, Shivaji published his first book, Art of \"Mohiniyattam\", co-authored by Avinash Pasricha. The book documents her researches under Sangeet Natak Akademi fellowship and a subsequent senior fellowship from the Department of Culture under the Ministry of Human Resource Development and is a reference book on the subject. She published another book, \"Mohiniyattam\", co-written by her daughter, Vijayalakshmi, herself a noted Mohiniyattom performer, in 2003. The book deals with the history and evolution of the art form and comments about the styles and techniques, repertoire, music, costumes and jewellery associated with it. She has performed on several stages in India and abroad and has taught many Indian and foreign students. She also continues her research by visiting temples and gives lecture-demonstrations on the dance form at conferences and seminars.\n\nShivaji was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1999-2000. Four years later, the Government of India included her in the 2004 Republic Day Honours list for the fourth highest civilian award of the Padma Shri. She is a recipient of the Sahitya Kala Parishad Samman, \"Lasya Lakshmi\" title from Kunchan Nambiar Memorial Trust, Kerala and \"Nritya Choodamani\" title from the Krishna Gana Sabha, Chennai. She won the Nishagandhi Puraskaram of the Government of Kerala in 2017.\n\nSara and Urs Baur, two American filmmakers, have made a documentary, \"Beyond Grace\", on Mohiniyattom and the art of Shivaji which features her daughter, Vijayalakshmi, too. The 78-minute film, which details the work of the mother-daughter combination, was premiered on 9 July 2011 at the Raleigh Theatre, Hollywood, Los Angeles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16813179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16813179", "title": "Bli Sodot", "text": "Bli Sodot\n\nBli Sodot ( lit. \"Without Secrets\"), is an educational television show broadcast on \"Israeli Educational Television\" during the years 1983–1986 and on reruns during the mid-1990s. The show was intended for lower grades of Elementary, seeking to help with their reading. The show was incorporated as an integral part of the school curriculum and was even accompanied by 10 study booklets and five enrichment booklets, published by the Center for Educational Technology (CET).\n\nThe first-of-its-kind educational television broadcasts intended to teach children to read and would visualize to the viewer the process of reading through songs and sketches led by some well-remembered characters such as Gashash Balash (\"Probing Detective\") and Itonish (\"Newspaperman\"). The show's hosts Hanny Nahmias, Oshik Levi, Nathan Nathanson, and Hanan Goldblatt, and several other actors who'd participated on the show such as Shula Hen, Ofra Haza, Galia Isay, and Matti Sari. Plasticine Animation clips, introducing the characters \"Alphy\" and \"Betty\", were also featured.\n\nIn the days of only one channel, the show received extremely high ratings among children and is considered one of Israeli Educational Television's classics. Its popularity led to a follow up series called \"BeSod HaInyanim\" () between the years 1991-1992. First graders would watch \"Bli Sodot\" while second graders would watch the \"Besod Ha'inyanim\" follow-up.\n\nThe show remains an integral part of Israeli culture, with 39% of elementary schools still using it in the classroom.\n\n\nEpisodes of the show were usually constructed with a standardized structure, which included learning of two new letters with similar Niqqud (Hebrew orthography).\n\nA standard episode was built with two sketches, one for each letter, where objects are presented to have the learned letter within them, and repetition of the syllable and examples on the use of the letter in the word. On top of the known sketches and characters there were also repeated segments on each chapter intended for memorization of the letter, and several of them became part of Israeli popular culture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17189968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17189968", "title": "Bridge program (higher education)", "text": "Bridge program (higher education)\n\nA Bridge program is a formal partnership between two post-secondary institutions that provides students with advanced standing in a degree program at one institution as recognition of previous academic experience in a similar field of study at another institution. Typically, a bridge program student holds a two-year college degree, and is seeking advancement in their profession by obtaining a four-year or graduate degree.\n\nThis differs from Bridging Programs offered by Ontario colleges for newcomers to the country. For example, Humber College in Toronto offers Bridging Programs for Internationally-Trained Engineers and IT Professionals, who are recent immigrants to Canada. These are short-term technical programs offered to professionals who already possess a minimum of a bachelor's degree. These programs \"bridge\" the gap between a newcomer's prior experience and their future employment in Canada.\n\nMost bridge programs can be categorized into three types of agreements:\n\nBilateral: An agreement outlined between two institutions and two specific programs of similar content. Students are permitted to use some of their initial credits toward the completion of another program at the partner institution. Example: Seneca/York Joint Degrees\n\nMultilateral: An agreement between one institution and several institutions that offer related programs of interest. The completion of one program will directly lead to a specific degree program. Example: The completion of any Ontario Public College Recreation and Leisure Services Diploma and entrance to Brock University’s Bachelor of Recreation and Leisure Studies\n\nConcurrent: A collaborative agreement between two institutions, whereby students will work toward two sets of qualifications (such as a diploma and a degree) at the same time, and on the same campus. Example: University of Guelph-Humber.\n\nThe College University Consortium Council (CUCC) was created in 1996 by the Ministry of Training, Colleges, and Universities as an advisory body to help devise direct transfer routes between post-secondary institutions for all Ontario students. Its mission statement specifies that the main objective of the council is to “facilitate, promote and coordinate joint education and training ventures that will: aid the transfer of students from sector to sector; facilitate the creation of joint programs between colleges and universities; and further the development of a more seamless continuum of post-secondary education in Ontario. Membership in the council is voluntary for all post-secondary institutions, but is highly encouraged. While the CUCC aims to help institutions create bridge programs, it still maintains that colleges and universities have full autonomy on the specifics of the agreements created. One of the first projects of the CUCC, was the development of a mutual agreement between Ontario colleges and universities. In 1999, Ontario colleges and universities signed the Ontario College-University Degree Completion Accord (Port Hope Accord), which solidified their commitment to create province-wide agreements to help college graduates enter university programs. This Accord was a monumental achievement, as it explicitly stated that a three year college diploma program should provide a student with a minimum of eleven transfer credits (equivalent to at least 2 years of study) toward a four year bachelor’s degree, and a two year diploma program should allow the student to earn six to eight university transfer credits toward a degree (equivalent to 1 or 1.5 years). These minimum requirements were chosen based on the average amount of transfer credits awarded in the past by Registrars’ Offices across Ontario Universities. Within five years of attaining signatures, forty new college-university agreements were made, providing more opportunities for students to attain a comprehensive education.\n\nBy 2005 however, the Bob Rae Report declared that “nowhere near enough progress has been made” because student demand for transfer agreements still overpowered the actual number of diploma to degree programs available. The Report suggested that research must be done to link up related programming between institutions into collaborative degree programs, and create more academic pathways for students to achieve their career goals. It also suggested the creation of core, generic courses offered at all institutions that could be instantly transferable in any Ontario diploma or degree program. The Higher Education Quality Council of Ontario was established in the same year as an advisory body to the provincial government, commissioning research on student post-secondary experience and recommendations to improve higher education in Ontario.\n\nTo better serve students interested in researching bridge program pathways, the CUCC made information much more accessible by developing the Ontario College-University Transfer Guide, an online resource that lists existing agreements between institutions that is searchable by program interest, as well as a detailed explanation of transfer credits granted in each agreement. This online guide will help to promote existing bridge programs in Ontario by providing students, guidance councillors, academic advisors, and parents a comprehensive source for all possible degree program pathways. As of October 2010, there were 514 agreements listed.\n\nIn the attempt to make further progress in Ontario’s credit transfer policies, the Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities established a new coordinating body in 2011 to replace the CUCC. The Ontario Council for Articulation and Transfer (ONCAT) aims to improve transfer pathways for students by focusing on creating multilateral agreements between institutions to maximize the number of transfer credits earned, and the number of students eligible to enrol in bridge programs. It also pledges to create consistency among programs of similar content in the province to help ease student mobility. ONCAT’s ultimate goal is to create a transfer model framework that grants all college diploma graduates the possibility to begin a degree program without repeating courses of similar content.\n\nThe Ontario college system was created in 1965 as a solution to the growing number of secondary school graduates who could not be sustained by the current post-secondary system. It was developed as a separate pathway from university, with different secondary school prerequisites, that would ultimately lead students to a distinct set of career choices. Since the inception of the college system, post-secondary education in Ontario has preserved its separate yet parallel tracks, despite changing demands in the workforce. With the shift of the job market toward hiring employees with bachelor or graduate degrees for occupations that previously accepted college diplomas, it is becoming less and less likely for students to enroll in a diploma program if they cannot be guaranteed entry into a bachelor’s program upon completion of their courses. Creating mutually beneficial bridge programs between colleges and universities may prove to be difficult, as both systems were created and have since progressed as completely separate entities with distinct policies and curriculum to meet the needs of their student body.\n\nThrough a series of interviews with senior administrators at colleges and universities throughout Ontario, Danielle Renaud began a preliminary study in the year 2000 to discover the major barriers to collaborative programs between post-secondary institutions. A total of twenty-five colleges and eighteen universities were surveyed. The most commonly perceived obstacle to the creation of bridge programs mentioned by both college and university administrators was the existence of elitist attitudes by some university faculty. The college respondents regarded university faculty as “arrogant” and unapproachable, and did not feel confident that their efforts would be positively received. University respondents echoed this statement, admitting that faculty often viewed college programs as a “lesser education” and that this stereotypical mindset would be difficult to overcome. University faculty may be hesitant to approach the subject of collaborative agreements with college diploma programs because they do not view it as a relationship that will benefit the reputation of their own institution. They continue to view colleges in their traditional role as a preparation for the workplace, and feel as though they must protect the integrity of a university education by remaining a separate entity. On the other hand, many college faculty are also fearful of an impending union with universities, as they are concerned that they will be swallowed by the larger institution and lose their voice in the decision making process. They value their programming and presume that the universities will be unwilling to make compromises when it comes to creating program parameters.\n\nThe ambiguity of the current transfer situation between colleges and universities does not promote the attainment of higher knowledge in a field of study, as many students feel discouraged to continue in their studies when their prior experience is not always fully recognized at the university level. Most current bridge programs were created out of individual efforts of faculty members in specific departments, separate from the institution as a whole. These idiosyncrasies make the transfer process sometimes difficult, as students must navigate inconsistent admissions policies that do not always work in their favour. In addition, most universities will not tell students how many transfer credits they will receive until they have actually applied to the program. Without a uniform system to assess transfer credits, students have no way of predicting how many transfer credits they will receive at each university, or how their diploma program will prepare them for university studies.\n\nOne of the largest impediments to creating comprehensive bridge programs is the fact that there is no standardized curriculum between similar diploma and degree programs in the province. Without a specified standard of practice outlined for certain fields of study, it becomes almost impossible to guarantee the same amount of transfer credits at every Ontario institution, as it is likely that a student may not have completed a specific course that a student at another institution was required to take. University officials in Renaud’s study also stated that they did not feel comfortable accepting current college curriculum as an equivalent to the first two years of a bachelor's degree program. They were concerned with the attained education level of the faculty at college campuses, as not all colleges require instructors to possess a Doctorate Degree, or conduct a minimum amount of research. Although this view can be attributed to the elitist attitudes already discussed above, it does call into question how ONCAT is prepared to roll out consistent transfer policies among institutions without attempting to define definitive credits and features in all fields of study. Colleges and universities may not be open to standardizing the curriculum in their programs, as it would mean that they would need to give up the autonomy they previously enjoyed, and possibly lose distinctive features in their curriculum that helped to recruit students to their specific program.\n\nAlthough a formalized agreement would result in more transfer applicants, many university officials are less than keen to sign bridge program agreements with colleges, as it would mean a significant loss of tuition dollars. Without the formalized agreement, transfer students receive on average one year or less worth of credits toward a bachelor's degree. This structure ensures that the student will still likely be enrolled in a university program for at least three years. With the successful creation of province-wide post-secondary agreements, students would attend university for two years, significantly cutting tuition costs. This loss of funding, despite rising enrolment numbers, could result in disaster, as programs could become oversubscribed without adequate financial coverage. There is also a valid concern that only those universities who are in need of more student applications, such as the small to mid-size universities, will be more willing to cooperate with college programs. Larger institutions that already receive an overwhelming number of high school applicants will be less likely to agree to the lengthy process of creating specialized programs when they can already fill their programs without the extra effort.\n\nOnce again, Ontario is in the midst of an unprecedented increase in the number of post-secondary student applicants that is threatening to overpopulate the current structure of higher education in the province. It is projected that the number of students enrolled in Ontario post-secondary institutions may increase by 100,000 by the year 2021. Much like the climate of 1965, Ontario needs to find another solution to accommodate the demands of these increasing numbers, and bridge programs may be the ideal way to streamline applicants. Bridge programs still meet the increased interest in a university degree, but provide alternate pathways for achieving this degree that will not exceed first year university enrolment allowances.\n\nA more realistic transition from the dualistic post-secondary pathways that currently exist in Ontario, to a collaborative pathway would be to develop a completely new curriculum for the bridge program, rather than trying to fit together already existing diploma and degree programs that were never meant to be connected. Ad hoc committees based on subject discipline should be formed among college and university faculty across the province to share best practices, and develop an integrated curriculum. In this approach, college and university faculty can work together to create a comprehensive knowledge base that they both believe in, and neither will feel threatened that their existing program will be overshadowed or become obsolete. Having faculty work together to develop curriculum requirements will also hopefully help to abolish stereotypes and the elitist attitudes that were credited as the strongest inhibitor to the creation of bridge programs, and help to build a sense of congeniality among education professionals.\n\nThe creation of the Ontario Council for Articulation and Transfer and the online Ontario College-University Transfer Guide was definitely a step in the right direction, however the existing agreements listed have a limited scope of program choice, and do not provide a list of guaranteed college credits that can be transferred. The province needs to move toward creating a universal transfer guide that allows students graduating from a diploma program the ability to transfer to any university with a similar degree program by meeting the same requirements for every institution, and receiving the same amount of transfer credits at each institution. This transfer guide should also be easily accessible by students so that they can make informed choices in their course planning and be informed of the number of transfer credits they can receive before they actually apply to an institution. To initiate a move toward universal transfer, the province can first focus on establishing a few core arts and science courses at the college level that would result in direct transfer to university credit at every Ontario university. College faculty can work in conjunction with university faculty to create course curriculum that is comparable to first year general arts and science credits (such as psychology, English, math, history etc.) that the majority of incoming university students are required to take, thus easing the transition process greatly.\n\nFinally, Ontario should look to the successful practice of post-secondary transfer in other provinces, most notably British Columbia, but also Alberta and New Brunswick, as a framework from which to build a comprehensive transfer program. In these already well-established systems, students are able to transfer credit toward a bachelor's degree from any institution in the province, and know exactly how many transfer credits they will receive before they officially apply to another institution. While Ontario has a long way to go before reaching this level of compatibility, it can definitely benefit from modeling the degree of government, administrative and faculty coordination evident within the post-secondary systems of the above- mentioned provinces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4133285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4133285", "title": "Chemistry education", "text": "Chemistry education\n\nChemistry education (or chemical education) is the study of the teaching and learning of chemistry in all schools, colleges and universities. Topics in chemistry education might include understanding how students learn chemistry, how best to teach chemistry, and how to improve learning outcomes by changing teaching methods and appropriate training of chemistry instructors, within many modes, including classroom lecture, demonstrations, and laboratory activities. There is a constant need to update the skills of teachers engaged in teaching chemistry, and so chemistry education speaks to this need.\n\nThere are at least four different philosophical perspectives that describe how the work in chemistry education is carried out. The first is what one might call a \"practitioner’s perspective\", wherein the individuals who are responsible for teaching chemistry (teachers, instructors, professors) are the ones who ultimately define chemistry education by their actions.\n\nA second perspective is defined by a self-identified group of \"chemical educators\", faculty members and instructors who, as opposed to declaring their primary interest in a typical area of laboratory research (organic, inorganic, biochemistry, etc.), take on an interest in contributing suggestions, essays, observations, and other descriptive reports of practice into the public domain, through journal publications, books, and presentations. Dr. Robert L. Lichter, then-Executive Director of the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, speaking in a plenary session at the 16th Biennial Conference on Chemical Education (recent BCCE meetings: ,), posed the question “why do terms like ‘chemical educator’ even exist in higher education, when there is a perfectly respectable term for this activity, namely, ‘chemistry professor.’ One criticism of this view is that few professors bring any formal preparation in or background about education to their jobs, and so lack any professional perspective on the teaching and learning enterprise, particularly discoveries made about effective teaching and how students learn.\n\nA third perspective is \"chemical education research\" (CER). Following the example of physics education research (PER), CER tends to take the theories and methods developed in pre-college science education research, which generally takes place in Schools of Education, and applies them to understanding comparable problems in post-secondary settings (in addition to pre-college settings). Like science education researchers, CER practitioners tend to study the teaching practices of others as opposed to focusing on their own classroom practices. Chemical education research is typically carried out \"in situ\" using human subjects from secondary and post-secondary schools. Chemical education research utilizes both quantitative and qualitative data collection methods. Quantitative methods typically involve collecting data that can then be analyzed using various statistical methods. Qualitative methods include interviews, observations, journaling, and other methods common to social science research.\n\nFinally, there is an emergent perspective called \"The Scholarship of Teaching and Learning\" (SoTL). Although there is debate on how to best define SoTL, one of the primary practices is for mainstream faculty members (organic, inorganic, biochemistry, etc.) to develop a more informed view of their practices, how to carry out research and reflection on their own teaching, and about what constitutes deep understanding in student learning.\n\nChemistry courses are required for many university students, especially for students who are studying science. Some students find chemistry classes and lab work stressful. This anxiety has been called \"chemophobia\". Fears commonly center on academic performance, the difficulty of learning chemical equations, and fear of getting lab chemicals on the hands. Women students were more anxious than men. Previous exposure to learning chemistry was associated with lower anxiety. See also chemophobia for aversion to chemical compounds rather than chemistry as a subject in education.\n\nThere are many journals where papers related to chemistry education can be found or published. Historically, the circulation of many of these journals was limited to the country of publication. Some concentrate on chemistry at different education levels (schools vs. universities) while others cover all education levels. Most of these journals carry a mixture of articles that range from reports on classroom and laboratory practices to educational research.\n\nMuch research in chemistry education is also published in journals in the wider science education field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21863485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21863485", "title": "Claudia Keelan", "text": "Claudia Keelan\n\nClaudia Keelan is an American poet, writer, and professor.\n\nClaudia Keelan is the author of six collections of poetry, most recently \"O, Heart\" (Barrow Street, 2014) and a book of translations \"Truth of My Songs: Poems of the Trobairitz\" from Omnidawn Press in 2016. A column on poetry and practice \"Ecstatic Emigre\" appeared in the \"American Poetry Review\" from 2011-2014. Widely anthologized, Keelan was described by the late Robert Creeley as a poet who \"keeps the faith for us all\" (book cover endorsement of \"Utopic\").\nShe is the editor of \"Interim,\" a print and on line journal specializing in poetry, translation, belle lettres and book reviews (www.interim.squarespace.com). She lives in Las Vegas where she is a Barrick Distinguished Scholar.\n\nFull-Length Poetry Collections\n\n\nOther Works\n\n\nTranslation\n\n\"Truth of My Songs: Poems of the Trobairitz,\" (Omnidawn, 2015).\n\n\"Chapbooks\"'\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57970463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57970463", "title": "Deborah Parker", "text": "Deborah Parker\n\nDeborah Parker (born 1970), also known by her native name Tsi-Cy-Altsa, is an activist and indigenous leader in the United States. A member of the Tulalip Tribes of Washington, she served as its vice-chairwoman from 2012 to 2015 and is, a board member for Our Revolution and the National Indigenous Women's Resource Center. She is also a co-founder of Indigenous Women Rise.\n\nDuring the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, Parker successfully campaigned both for the reauthorization and for the inclusion of provisions which gave tribal courts jurisdiction over violent crimes against women and families involving non–Native Americans on tribal lands. She also served in the 2016 Democratic National Convention as one of the platform committee members representing Bernie Sanders, where she \"helped to ensure that Native policy initiatives were ultimately rolled into the party's larger platform.\"\n\nDeborah Parker is a member of the Tulalip Tribes of Washington and is of Tulalip, Lummi, Yaqui, and Apache descent; her native name, Tsi-Cy-Altsa, extends back multiple generations on her mother's side. Her grandfather, who was of Lummi heritage, was from Cowichan Bay; her grandmother was from the Snohomish River area. Born in 1970 as the daughter of a Tulalip father and Yaqui–Apache mother, she grew up on the reservation, where she became intimately familiar with many of the problems facing the Native American community that she later sought to address. In 1999, she graduated from the University of Washington with a Bachelor of Arts in American ethnic studies and sociology. Since graduating, Parker has been involved in numerous groups and organizations.\n\nPrior to working for the Tulalip Tribes, Parker served as the director of the residential healing school of the Tsleil-Waututh First Nation and participated in the Treaty Taskforce Office of the Lummi Nation, wherein she was mentored by indigenous leaders such as Billy Frank Jr., Joe DeLaCruz, Henry Cagey, and Jewell James. Later, she developed two programs for the Tulalip Tribes: Young Mothers, a culturally relevant initiative for teen mothers; and the Tribal Tobacco Program, which promoted responsible tobacco use among tribal members while acknowledging tobacco's sacred role among indigenous peoples in the United States. From 2005 to 2012, Parker served as the Legislative Policy Analyst in the Office of Governmental Affairs for the Tulalip Tribes; and, in March 2012, she began serving as vice-chairwoman of the Tulalip Tribes, becoming its only woman board member and its youngest member. After serving three terms as vice-chair, she decided to not seek re-election in 2015 to focus more on her family and activism.\n\nWhile serving the Tulalip Tribes, Parker continued to involve herself in improving education and political engagement among Native Americans in Washington. In January 2005, she was elected as the treasurer for Choice & Consequence, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that promotes healthy practices among Washington youth. She later was promoted to its board of directors as the president. In 2006, she participated in the development of Native Vote Washington, a 501(c)(4) organization that sought to encourage greater political participation among Native Americans. In 2007, Parker starred as Aunt Fran in \"Shadow of the Salmon\", a docudrama about the significance of salmon among the Northwest Native peoples that was nominated for multiple awards. Later, in September 2010, she was appointed by the University of Washington's Friends of the Educational Opportunity Program as a member of its board of trustees, where she served her full three-year term.\n\nIn the same year as her 2013 efforts in support of passing the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, Parker joined Mother Nation, then called Native Women in Need, as an honorary board member after eight months of supporting the group. She was initially drawn to the organization because of the work it did and the dedication of its founder. From 2014 to 2017, Parker served as a trustee board member for the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the American Indian. In October 2017, Parker was selected by Marysville School District to serve as its director of Equity, Diversity, and Indian Education and continues to do so \n\nParker lives in Tulalip, Washington, where she is a mother to three children and two stepchildren and is married to documentary filmmaker Myron Dewey (who is of Paiute and Shoshone descent). she is a board member for Our Revolution and the National Indigenous Women's Resource Center; the senior strategist for Pipestem Law, a lawfirm specializing in representing Native American interests; and the volunteer policy analyst for Mother Nation, a nonprofit organization supporting Native American women.\n\nParker describes her activism and resilience to resist despite hardships as \"warrior status\". She has been the recipient of numerous awards relating to her activism and tribal outreach, including the Native Action Network's 2010 Enduring Spirit Award, the National Indian Education Association's 2011 Parent of the Year Award, the Daughters of the American Revolution's 2013 Community Service Award, Potlatch Fund's 2013 Pearl Capoeman-Baller Civic Participation Award, the Snohomish County Human Rights Commission's 2016 Human Rights Award, and KSER's 2017 Voice of the Community Award for Community Impact by an Individual. In September 2015, she was honored as the first of fifty in \"Indian Country Today\"s 50 Faces of Indian Country 2015. Parker was also the keynote speaker at the second annual Faith and Action Climate Team (FACT) Conference in October 2017.\n\nDuring the political battle leading up to the 2013 reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), Parker was \"vital\" in the campaigning that pushed for reauthorization and her public testimony to Congress in particular was influential. While in Washington, D.C., for an April 2012 meeting with the Environmental Protection Agency, Parker visited the staff of Washington senator Patty Murray to discuss salmon and natural resource issues. During the visit, she learned about the efforts to pass the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2012 and the struggle that Murray's team were having with keeping support for a provision on tribal jurisdiction. According to the team, the reauthorization would likely fail, especially with the tribal provision, because the legislation \"lacked a face.\" After being asked whether she knew any stories that could help the effort, Parker asked to speak directly with Murray. Murray was on the Senate floor at the time; she agreed to leave immediately to meet privately with Parker.\n\nParker and Murray met later that afternoon to discuss the reauthorization bill and the inclusion of new provisions to allow tribal courts to prosecute non–Native Americans for crimes against women and families on tribal lands. Parker, committed to ensuring that the VAWA was reauthorized with tribal provisions, decided that \"she had to set aside her fear and become 'the face' and the voice for the issue of Native women and rape.\" This was not something she originally planned to do. The next day after the meeting, on April 25, she detailed in a press conference to Congress experiences both she and other women she knew had with violence and sexual abuse on reservations, describing herself as \"a Native American statistic\". It was the first time Parker had publicly talked about the experiences she had.\n\nThe Senate passed the VAWA reauthorization the following day with the protections for Native Americans included, though Republicans in the House of Representatives initially sought to remove them. Parker began to aggressively lobby in favor of the reauthorization and sought to convince members of Congress to support both it and its tribal provisions, so much so that then-president Obama got to know her by her native name and her \"toes bled\" from all the walking. She attended national cable news programs and provided interviews to newspapers across the country in support of the legislation. While lobbying the opponents of the bill, Parker felt she was \"up against some of the worst discrimination I've ever seen in my entire life\" and that Native American women were treated \"like we were subhuman\". The House of Representatives began proposing weaker language to the Senate in an attempt at compromise on the provision; Murray, Parker, and the rest refused. Before long, the opposition to the reauthorization and its tribal provisions eroded in the House and strong bipartisan support emerged.\n\nBy the time the final bill was signed into law in March 2013, it included the tribal law provisions that Parker promoted. Four months later, in July 2013, Parker was honored by the Obama White House as one of the Open Government and Civic Hacking Champions of Change \"working to improve their communities through technology, innovation, and civic participation.\" For Murray, the VAWA reauthorization \"would have never happened if Parker had not gone public with her story on Capitol Hill\" and she \"made the absolute difference at the absolute critical time\" by \"making her personal story become the face of what this was about\". Around the same time, playwright Mary Kathryn Nagle released \"Sliver of a Full Moon\", a play about the events surrounding the VAWA reauthorization that tells the stories of five Native American women and two Native men. Among the five women is Deborah Parker, played by Jennifer Bobiwash.\n\nLater, in October 2015, the tribal provisions were officially implemented for all tribes after a \"very successful\" pilot program involving the Tulalip, Pascua Yaqui, and Umatilla tribes. A year afterward, in October 2016, Parker was featured in the second campaign advertisement of Patty Murray's re-election in the 2016 United States Senate election in Washington. In the video, Parker briefly recounted her experiences with sexual assault and her work with Murray to help pass the VAWA reauthorization.\n\nDuring the 2016 Democratic National Convention, Parker served as one of the platform committee members representing Bernie Sanders after having been an early and vocal supporter of his 2016 presidential campaign. She was initially hesitant to do so, but accepted then–Democratic National Committee chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz's offer to join the platform committee, seeing it as an opportunity to advance the causes she supported, particularly \"Native American sovereignty, climate justice, to increase [...] protections for women, [and] income inequality\"; and to honor' Sanders and 'represent his vision' on the committee.\" As a platform committee member, Parker \"helped to ensure that Native policy initiatives were ultimately rolled into the party's larger platform.\" She also authored one of the twelve \"priority amendments\" to the Democratic platform that the Sanders campaign supported, which sought to introduce language that explicitly promoted using global warming as a \"test\" for whether any policy or decision should be supported within relevant federal agencies.\n\nIn June 2016, on the first day of the platform drafting hearing in St. Louis, Parker proposed a substitution amendment that replaced and strengthened the language in the section on honoring tribal nations. Elijah Cummings, the chairman presiding over the hearing, allotted Parker additional time and gave her the floor. While reading the amendment text, she was overwhelmed by the moment and began to cry. After some silence, James Zogby continued where Parker left off until she regained her composure and resumed. Barbara Lee noted afterward that in all her decades of attending Democratic National Conventions, she did not recall \"any provision or plank in our platform that acknowledges the first people of the United States\". Cornel West likewise commented that Parker's \"very existence [...] on this committee is historically unprecedented\". After further commendations from other committee members, and Cummings' recognition of Parker's \"passion\", the proposal was passed unanimously to a standing ovation.\n\nSpecifically, the amendment text committed the Democratic Party to \"uphold, honor, and strengthen to the highest extent possible the United States' fundamental trust and responsibility, grounded in the Constitution and treaties, to American Indian and Alaska Native tribes\" because \"throughout our history we have failed to live up to that trust\". It also committed the party to restoring tribal lands to indigenous tribes; increasing funding and support for tribal communities, particularly in infrastructure, education, and health care; eliminating school and sports mascots that are derogatory, stereotyping, or racist toward Native Americans; and improving both tribal jurisdiction and indigenous voting rights. Lastly, the amendment endorsed \"environmental justice in Indian Country\" and acknowledged \"the past injustices and the misguided, harmful federal and state policies and actions based on outdated and discredited values and beliefs that resulted in the destruction of the Indian nations' economies, social, and religious systems, the taking of their lands, and the creation of intergenerational trauma that exists to this day.\" The amendment text was fully retained in the July 1 draft version and further expanded to strengthen language for Native Hawaiians by the time the official platform was released on July 21.\n\nShortly after Our Revolution formed in August 2016, Parker joined it as a member of its board of directors.\n\nThroughout the years, Parker has opposed and protested multiple pipeline projects out of concern for their environmental impact and effects on tribal lands. In September 2016, Parker and other Tulalip tribal members joined Standing Rock in protesting the Dakota Access Pipeline. A month later, on November 15, 2016, Parker joined Eryn Wise, LaDonna Brave Bull Allard, and Judith LeBlanc for the protests' \"National Day of Action\", during which the four staged a sit-in at the Army Corps of Engineers headquarters and led a crowd of approximately 1,000 protestors around Washington, D.C.\n\nParker joined other indigenous leaders and groups in January 2017 for the 2017 Women's March and marched in the Women's March on Washington. During the protest, a new group was formed called Indigenous Women Rise, of which she became a co-founder. A year later, in January 2018, she participated in the 2018 Women's March in Seattle, where she recounted the previous year's events.\n\nIn an April 2018 article, Parker criticized Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau and advocated for opposition to the Trans Mountain Pipeline in solidarity with First Nations peoples. Our Revolution released a statement doing likewise on the same day.\n\nDuring a 2016 interview, Parker described a national restriction on gun possession for those previously charged with domestic violence as a \"necessity\" for protecting women. She also censured Donald Trump's usage of \"Pocahontas\" as a nickname for Elizabeth Warren (who claims Cherokee and Delaware heritage), which she described as \"very insulting\"; and Trump's past treatment of tribal nations and their sovereignty more generally.\n\nParker is critical of the US government's current and historic treatment of indigenous populations, comparing Native American reservations to \"concentration camps\".\n\nRegarding the traditional knowledge of indigenous peoples, especially traditional ecological knowledge and traditional medicine, Parker supports rules and guidelines which preserve indigenous ways of life and respect the privacy of certain traditions and practices. She also emphasizes the importance of viewing indigenous knowledge from an indigenous perspective, which may differ from \"the Western-science approach\" to these issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "9504422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9504422", "title": "Earth Orbit Stations", "text": "Earth Orbit Stations\n\nE.O.S.: Earth Orbit Stations is a space station management simulation game developed by Karl Buiter, with Joe Ybarra as producer, for Electronic Arts. It was released for the Commodore 64 and Apple II in 1987.\n\nThe game focuses on both the material and economic challenges of building a permanent, fully functioning space station in geocentric orbit.\n\nThe game was set in 1996, and the player is given various selected scenarios to fulfill, from mundane tasks such as setting up a simple space station to developing and supplying a specified amount of high-grade, zero G pharmaceuticals to being the first to contact alien life. The game also is a cutthroat strategy game in multiplayer, as players compete over finite resources and resource management.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" in 1987 gave the game a mixed review. While the single-player portion was praised, the review felt the game had too high a learning curve to be really suitable for multiplayer. The user interface was particularly bothersome, described as \"a textbook case of how \"not\" to design a window/menu/graphics interface.\" The documentation was similarly described as poorly organized and cryptic. In 1992 and 1994 surveys of science fiction games the magazine gave the title two-plus stars of five, calling it \"An interesting failure ... the logistics just are not that much fun\". \"Compute!\" reviewed the game more favorably, stating that \"\"EOS\" offers a level of challenge unusual in space-related software. To succeed at this game requires careful thought\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36423587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36423587", "title": "Ecole Normale Supérieure of Bamako", "text": "Ecole Normale Supérieure of Bamako\n\nEcole Normale Supérieure (ENSUP; alternate, National Superior School of Mali) is a public school of higher education in Bamako, Mali.\n\n"}
{"id": "16567964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16567964", "title": "Education in Mali", "text": "Education in Mali\n\nPublic education in Mali is, in principle, provided free of charge and is compulsory for nine years between the ages of 7 and 16. The system encompasses six years of primary education beginning at age seven, followed by six years of secondary education, generally divided into two three-year cycles. \n\nMali’s primary school enrollment rate is low, in large part because families are unable to cover the cost of uniforms, books, supplies, and other fees required to attend public school. \n\nIn the 2000–01 school year, primary school enrollment was estimated to include only 61 percent of the appropriate age-group (71 percent of males and 51 percent of females). The primary school completion rate is also low: only 36 percent of students in 2003 (and lower for females). The majority of students reportedly leave school by age 12. The secondary school enrollment rate in the late 1990s was 15 percent (20 percent for males and 10 percent for females).\n\nGovernment expenditures on education in 2000 constituted about 15.6 percent of total government expenditures and about 2.8 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). According to Malian government estimates for the 2003–04 school year, Mali had 318 pre-primary institutions with 971 teachers and 35,000 students; 8,714 general primary and secondary institutions with 36,064 teachers and 1,650,803 students; and 37,635 students in tertiary institutions. The education system is plagued by a lack of schools in rural areas, as well as shortages of teachers and materials.\n\nIncreased spending on primary education, especially for children in rural areas and girls, has had the unintended effect of overtaxing the secondary school system. At the end of their primary schooling, students may take entrance exams for secondary school admissions, called the \"diplôme d’étude fondamentale\" (Fundamental Studies Diploma or DEF). In 2008 more than 80,000 students passed these exams, yet around 17,000—40% of whom were girls—were denied placement in secondary schools. While the government contends these students should be placed in limited places based on their diploma, their age, and their academic history, some Malians contend that gender discrimination plays a role in denying spots to girls. \n\nThe government has stressed primary education funding, hoping to reach universal primary education by 2015 in line with the international Millennium Development Goals, but the Basic Education Minister of Mali says that this has overtaxed the secondary school system. The government reported that from 2002 to 2007, the percentage of girls enrolled in primary school increased from 56 percent to 68 percent and boys from 78 percent to 88 percent. \n\nAt the same time the government estimates 35 percent of primary school students in the 2010 graduating class will not meet Secondary School requirements. The government plans to invest in an expanded system of both Secondary academic vocational education to meet the demand.\n\nStudents in Mali pay no tuition fees, but private secondary and vocational schooling may charge $600 a year (in Bamako, 2008), in a nation where the average yearly salary was $500 in 2007 according to the World Bank.\n\nAccording to United States government estimates, the adult literacy rate (defined as those over age 15 who can read and write) was 46.4 percent for the total population in 2003 (53.5 percent for males and 39.6 percent for females). According to United Nations sources the literacy rate is lower - 27–30 percent overall and as low as 12 percent for females, among the lowest rates in Africa.\n\nOne of the oldest universities in the world — Sankore in Timbuktu — dates to the 15th century.\n\nThe University of Bamako, also known as the University of Mali, is a 1990s aggregation of older institutions of higher education in the Bamako area. Its main campus is in the neighborhood of Badalabougou. \n\nThe University includes five Faculties and two institutes: \n\nPublic education is directed and funded from the national level. The Ministry has two Ministerial level officers, each heading one independent arm of the Ministry. The \"Ministre de L’Education de Base, de L’Alphabétisation et des Langues Nationales\" (Ministry of Basic Education, Literacy, and National Languages) is responsible for Primary education, literacy programs outside the schools, and the promotion and standardisation of \"National Languages\", such as Bambara and Tamcheq, other than the official language, French.\n\nThe \"Ministre des Enseignements Secondaire, supérieur et de la Recherche scientifique\" (Ministry of Secondary and Superior Education, and Scientific Research) is tasked with government Secondary schools, university, and an array of vocational, technical, and research centres. As of 2008, the Minister of Basic Education, Literacy, and National Languages was Sidibe Aminata Diallo and the Minister of Secondary and Superior Education, and Scientific Research was Amadou Toure\n\n"}
{"id": "27593795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27593795", "title": "Elizabeth Binmore", "text": "Elizabeth Binmore\n\nElizabeth Binmore (1860 – 24 August 1917) was an educationist from Montreal whose notability comes from her career and her important personal firsts in education.\n\nBinmore received her first higher education at the McGill Normal School from 1875 to 1878 this being the only public institution to offer instruction to English-speaking women of Montreal. She obtained three teaching diplomas during her time there and began a lifelong teaching career.\n\nEducation opportunities expanded for her in 1884 when McGill College opened their arts faculty to women. She was part of their third class of women and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1890. Other graduates in that class included Maude Abbott and Carrie Matilda Derick. She earned her Master of Arts from McGill in 1894; sharing the honour of being the first woman to do so with one other lady. She received further post graduate education from Harvard University. This work was not recognized with a further degree as Harvard was not awarding degrees to women at that time.\n\nBinmore is credited with being an implementer in Montreal of Educational Sloyd which was a leading edge manual educational innovation in the latter half of the nineteenth century. She held a number of important posts including the president of the Teachers’ Association of Montreal. She was the first woman to hold this post. She served on the executive of the Provincial Association of Protestant Teachers for a time. She was a longtime member of the Alumnae Society of McGill University and held important positions there including president and treasurer.\n\n"}
{"id": "6846693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6846693", "title": "Elsie Fogerty", "text": "Elsie Fogerty\n\nElsie Fogerty, CBE, LRAM, (16 December 1865, London – 4 July 1945, Leamington, Warwickshire) was an English teacher who bravely departed from the customary practice of “voice and diction” also called elocution. At that time “Voice and Diction” focused entirely on the mouth and nasal cavity to produce speech sounds. Fogerty’s technique ended up focusing on the entire body and voice to produce speech. At first, she used just the lungs to resonate the sound, but soon included the whole body, because she discovered that posture and movement also effected speech. It ultimately became known as the “Body and Voice” technique. And, it can be rightly said, she ‘taught the stage to speak.’ \n\nShe was founder and principal of the Central School of Speech and Drama in London from 1906 to 1942.\n\nThe daughter of engineer and architect Joseph Fogerty FRIBA (d. 1899) of Dublin, and his wife, Hannah Cochrane (d. 1910), of Limerick, Fogerty was born in Sydenham, south London on 16 December 1865. \n\nAn only child, she was privately educated and in 1883 trained at the Paris Conservatoire under Coquelin aine and Louis-Arsène Delaunay, and with Hermann Vezin in London. Fogerty went on to teach English and Elocution at the Crystal Palace School of Art and Literature from 1889, Roedean School from 1908 to 1937, and was tutor of diction at Sir Frank Benson's London School of Acting.\nFogerty began teaching Saturday speech classes at the Royal Albert Hall in the 1890s. Following their success, in 1906 she founded the Central School of Speech and Drama then known as the Central School of Speech-Training and Dramatic Arts at the Hall. By 1908 she had worked out a three year training course from speech trainer and drama teachers. In 1923 the school was one of three educational establishments approved by the University of London to grant diplomas in dramatic art. Fogerty gave university extension lectures at the Albert Hall, and for many years took evening classes for London County Council teachers.\n\nThe School remained at the Royal Albert Hall until 1957, when it moved to its current site in Swiss Cottage, north London.\n\nMany of Fogerty's pupils had successes in the Poetry Reading Competition at Oxford before the Second World War and many alumni went on to become teachers in speech and the management of theatres.\n\nWhilst at the Royal Albert Hall Elsie Fogerty trained notable actors including:\n\nMany public figures and actors consulted Fogerty on special difficulties connected with the speech side of their work including poet Laurence Binyon, Elizabeth Bergner, Sarah Bernhardt, George Bernard Shaw, T S Eliot, various pillars of Church and State, and Princess Louise, who became Patron of the School.\n\nFogerty was a pioneer in the cure of stammering and in 1912 opened a speech clinic at St Thomas' Hospital, London, of which she became superintendent, and consequently one of the very first speech therapists.\n\nFogerty was made Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for services to speech training and dramatic arts in the King's 1934 Birthday Honours.\n\nElsie Fogerty worked to secure the first recognition of drama as a diploma subject in an English university – the University of London, where she was a member of the advisory committee for the Diploma in Dramatic Art. She was a member of the Council of the British Drama League from its foundation until her death, and was a keen supporter for the establishment of the Royal National Theatre, London.\n\n\n\nFogerty never married but devoted her entire life to her work. In 1944 her flat in South Kensington, London was completely destroyed following an air raid during the Second World War. With all of her possessions destroyed she moved into a nearby hotel. Fogerty died in 1945 in a nursing home at Leamington Spa.\n\n"}
{"id": "33626763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33626763", "title": "Friendship Armstrong Academy", "text": "Friendship Armstrong Academy\n\nFriendship Armstrong Academy is a public charter school located in the Truxton Circle neighborhood of Washington, D.C. Historically a black school, it is housed in the former Armstrong Manual Training School, also known as the Samuel Chapman Armstrong Technical High School.\n\nThe building was designed by local architect Waddy B. Wood in 1902. The Renaissance Revival building was one of two segregated manual training schools constructed for the city's African-American youth. It was named for Samuel C. Armstrong. It was dedicated by Booker T. Washington, on October 24, 1902.\n\nThe building served as Veterans High School, between 1958 and 1964. Since 1964, it has served as the Armstrong Adult Education Center. The building was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1996. The Dorothy Height Charter School operated in the building until its charter was revoked in 2015. It is currently functioning as an elementary public charter school under the name Friendship Armstrong Academy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1285915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1285915", "title": "Geometry template", "text": "Geometry template\n\nA geometry template is a piece of clear plastic with cut-out shapes for use in mathematics and other subjects in primary school through secondary school. It also has various measurements on its sides to be used like a ruler. In Australia, popular brands include Mathomat and MathAid. \n\nMathomat is a trademark used for a plastic stencil developed in Australia by Craig Young in 1969, who originally worked as an engineering tradesperson in the Government Aircraft Factories (GAF) in Melbourne before retraining and working as head of mathematics in a secondary school in Melbourne. Young designed Mathomat to address what he perceived as limitations of traditional mathematics drawing sets in classrooms, mainly caused by students losing parts of the sets. The Mathomat stencil has a large number of geometric shapes stencils combined with the functions of a technical drawing set (rulers, set squares, protractor and circles stencils to replace a compass). \n\nThe template made use polycarbonate – a new type of thermoplastic polymer when Mathomat first came out – which was strong and transparent enough to allow for a large number of stencil shapes to be included in its design without breaking or tearing. The first template was exhibited in 1970 at a mathematics conference in Melbourne along with a series of popular mathematics teaching lesson plan; it became an immediate success with a large number of schools specifying it as a required students purchase. As of 2017, the stencil is widely specified in Australian schools, chiefly for students at early secondary school level. The manufacturing of Mathomat was taken over in 1989 by the W&G drawing instrument company, which had a factory in Melbourne for manufacture of technical drawing instruments. Young also developed MathAid, which was initially produced by him when he was living in Ringwood, Victoria. He later sold the company.\n\nW&G published a series of teacher resource books for Mathomat authored by various teachers and academics who were interested in Mathomat as a teaching product.\n\n"}
{"id": "42951945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42951945", "title": "George Nazos", "text": "George Nazos\n\nGeorge Nazos (Greek: Γιώργος Νάζος Giórgios Názos) (1862 – 1934) was a Greek music teacher and director of the Athens Conservatory. He was from a well-known family from Tinos Island. He was recognized for his musical talent at a young age. In 1881 he went to Munich, Germany to study piano and advanced theory, returning to Greece in 1886.\n\nIn 1891, Nazos was appointed musical director of the Athens Conservatory, which he reorganized by hiring foreign teachers. Specifically, he proceeded to Germanize the curriculum, perhaps influenced by his studies in Munich, and apply progressive educational methods, which led to the founding of the Conservatory's student orchestra, the first incarnation of what was to become the Athens State Orchestra upon nationalization. He also founded or was important to the founding of the Conservatory's drama, opera, Byzantine, and military band departments, and contributed to Greek legislation pertaining to music education. As a teacher, he taught in piano, voice, and music theory.\n\nIn his field, he dealt with scientific research and the collection of Greek traditional songs from the Peloponnesus and Crete. This research work was published in Athens under the title of \"Peninta dimódi ásmata Peloponnisou kai Kritis\" (Fifty traditional songs from Peloponnesus and Crete).\n\nNazos was a dedicated professional musician, and his contribution to conservatories, schools, orchestras, and theatre was significant. Through 30 years of effort, he laid the foundations of Greek music education.\n\n"}
{"id": "26051580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26051580", "title": "Glion Colloquium", "text": "Glion Colloquium\n\nThe Glion Colloquium is a think-tank on higher education. \n\nIt was co-founded by Luc E. Weber and Werner Z. Hirsch. The first conference was held in Glion, Switzerland in May 1998. The \"Glion Declaration\" was written by Frank H. T. Rhodes in 1999. It questions the position of the university in a market-driven society. It also looks at the effects of globalization on research universities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "557833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=557833", "title": "Higher diploma", "text": "Higher diploma\n\nA higher diploma is an academic award in Iraq, Libya, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Ireland and Oman. In Iraq, it's one year after bachelor's degree (i.e., NOT equivalent to a bachelor's degree). In Ireland it is a postgraduate qualification at the same level of the honours bachelor's degree. In the United Kingdom, the diploma is equivalent to higher tier (A*-C) GCSE.\n\nA postgraduate university program is the 2-Terms Diploma (Arabic: دبلوم عالي ) course. The first year is made up of higher coursework, and students write a thesis after the 2 terms. The entrance requirement for this programme is a pass mark (50-59%) for the bachelor's degree in the same discipline.\n\nIn terms of level, the Post graduate Diploma (Arabic: دبلوم عالي ) is comparable to a 1-year WO master’s degree in a similar specialization in the Netherlands.\nIn medical field high diploma is two years full time training and passing rank is 70%\n\nThe Higher Diploma AKA High Diploma (Arabic: دبلوم عالي) in Libya is an award from a national institute of technology or engineering given to the students who fulfil the requirement of passing 120 to 140 academic credits, it was started in 1980s by ministry of higher education as a degree with emphasis on the practical studies that benefits the local market comparing to the \"theoretical approach\" was taken by the universities (Higher diploma is a degree in higher education). Importantly, the degree may equivalent to BSc, or three-years undergraduate degree, students with Higher Diploma may take additional academic courses (two full-time semesters) in order to get Bachelor degree, as clearly stated in the law of higher education in Libya.\n\nRecently, the government has issued a law in which the institutes of higher education will change into Colleges of Higher Education and to change the degree that given by them to bachelor's degree, in order to meet the world standards.\n\nIn the UK, the higher diploma is a level 2 qualification on the Regulated Qualifications Framework, following the recently introduced 14- to 19-year-old Diploma system for the UK, which follows two levels, lower tier (Level 1) and higher tier (Level 2). To proceed to A-Levels in England, Northern Ireland, and Wales; you have to have completed a specified amount of qualifications at-least equivalent to A*-C GCSE (Level 2).\n\nThe Diploma program usually consists of four major subjects: Maths, English, ICT, and a subject you want to study more in-depth.\n\nAlternatively, Hadlow College offers Higher National Diploma at Level 5. This includes their HND Garden Design, which calls for an applicant to have gathered 48 UCAS tariff points. \n\nA Higher Diploma is an academic award by an University, College, other Tertiary Institutions, or Post Secondary Institutions. The award is at the same level as an Associate Degree or Diploma/Advanced Diploma Qualifications Framework Level 4, but below the standard of a Bachelor's Degree. It's also above a lower level Certificate; and lower level Diploma. \n\nUsually higher diplomas emphasis more on specialization and job training whereas associate degrees focus more on general, broader education. For example, there may be a higher diploma for \"electrical engineering\" but only an associate degree for \"physical science\".\n\nThe Higher Diploma (\"Ard-Dioplóma\" in Irish) is an award from Quality and Qualifications Ireland which in 2012 took over responsibilities from the Higher Education and Training Awards Council that replaces the graduate diploma in Ireland. The higher diploma is currently available in universities in Ireland and has been awarded since June 2005; the standard of the award is broadly similar to the graduate diploma, and replaces reorientation-type courses. Professional-type graduate diplomas will be replaced by postgraduate diplomas.\n\nThe National University of Ireland also offers a broad selection of higher diplomas in its constituent universities and recognized colleges. Main disciples are arts, business, engineering and science. A higher diploma in education is offered by the University of Dublin.\n\nThe Higher Diploma is an award equivalent to fourth or third year of bachelor's degree, it's a one-year course with 30 credit hours after achieving the diploma.\n\n"}
{"id": "34548325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34548325", "title": "International Society for Music Education", "text": "International Society for Music Education\n\nThe International Society for Music Education (ISME) is a professional organization of persons involved with music education. It was founded in Brussels in 1953 during the UNESCO-sponsored conference on \"The Role and Place of Music in the Education of Youth and Adults\". ISME's mission is to build a worldwide network of music educators, to advocate music education globally and across the lifespan, and to foster intercultural understanding and cooperation.\n\nISME holds conferences every two years in a different part of the world and include workshops, paper presentations, keynote addresses, symposia, and performances. In addition, ISME supports regional conferences in Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, and the Americas, and has a range of specialist interest groups to nurture particular areas of music education. These specialist groups include seven long-established commissions that are focused on: research; community music activity; early childhood music education; education of the professional musician; policy: culture, education and media; music in schools and teacher education; and music in special education, music therapy and music medicine. Each commission holds a biennial seminar, usually immediately prior to the main conference. In addition, the world conference includes a forum for instrumental and vocal teachers.\n\nThe society is present in over 90 countries and in January 2012 there were nearly 1,700 ISME individual members, with 21 ISME National Affiliates, as well as 59 ISME Group Members comprising around 100,000 ISME Associate Members.\n\nISME's main sponsors are the Gibson and the NAMM Foundations.\n\nThe \"International Journal of Music Education\" is the official journal of the ISME and is published four times a year by SAGE Publications.\n\nThe ISME International Office co-ordinates all communication related to the work of the society. ISME acts in an advisory capacity to UNESCO and is a member of and closely affiliated to the International Music Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "2672223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2672223", "title": "Jovino Santos Neto", "text": "Jovino Santos Neto\n\nJovino Santos Neto (born September 18, 1954 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) is a Brazilian American jazz pianist, flutist, composer, arranger, educator, and record producer.\n\nJovino Santos Neto started playing piano at age 13 and by 16 was playing keyboards in a band called the Vacancy Group in Bangu, Rio de Janeiro. He earned a degree in Biology, from the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, and later from Macdonald College of McGill University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nIn 1977, he joined the group led by Brazilian composer Hermeto Pascoal, working as a pianist, flutist, composer, arranger and producer. Since leaving Hermeto's group in 1992 and relocating to the United States, Santos Neto has released several albums. He has toured internationally as the leader of his own ensemble and with musicians such as Airto Moreira, Flora Purim, and Mike Marshall.\n\nSantos Neto teaches at Seattle's Cornish College of the Arts and is a frequent teacher at Jazz Camp West.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12072846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12072846", "title": "Jugend forscht", "text": "Jugend forscht\n\nJugend forscht (literal translation: “Youth researches”) is a German youth science competition. With more than 10,000 participants annually, it is the biggest youth science and technology competition in Europe. It was initiated in 1965 by Henri Nannen, then editor-in-chief of the Stern magazine.\n\nParticipants work on a self-chosen research project, hand in a written report about their work, and then present their results first at regional levels and later at a national contest to an expert jury, usually in the form of a poster session, often including a practical demonstration. Contest juries often invite university or industry experts to referee some of the projects, especially at the national contest, due to a high level of specialization.\n\nParticipants can enter in one of seven subject groups:\n\n\nParticipants must not be older than 21 years and can enter the competition either on their own or in teams of up to three. University students are only allowed to participate during their first year of study. Participants younger than 15 years compete in a separate contest called “Schüler experimentieren” (“Pupils experiment”).\n\nWinners receive prizes donated by industrial sponsors. At the national level, one project in each of the subject groups is selected as the national winner each year. In addition, there is a special price for the best interdisciplinary project by the German Research Foundation, as well as additional special prizes for particularly distinguished projects by the President of Germany and the Chancellor of Germany. Some of the winning projects are nominated for the European Union Contest for Young Scientists, and all winners are nominated for the Studienstiftung des deutschen Volkes.\n\n"}
{"id": "10423927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10423927", "title": "List of Old Rossallians", "text": "List of Old Rossallians\n\nThe List of Old Rossallians lists persons who attended or are associated with the Rossall School in Lancashire.\n\n\nThere have been many Old Rossallians who have become headmasters at public schools since its foundation in 1844, including Winchester College, Charterhouse School, Rugby School, Merchant Taylor's, Marlborough College, Cheltenham College, The Dragon School, Wellington College, Harrow School, Malvern College, Dulwich College, Sevenoaks School and Christ's Hospital. The current crop includes the Headmasters at Bedales School and Shrewsbury School.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45603599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45603599", "title": "List of environmental degree-granting institutions in the United States", "text": "List of environmental degree-granting institutions in the United States\n\nThis list includes universities, colleges, and other higher educational institutions granting accredited bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in environmental studies, environmental science, environmental policy, and related fields in the United States. The list is organized by state. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20707", "title": "Margaret Sanger", "text": "Margaret Sanger\n\nMargaret Higgins Sanger (born Margaret Louise Higgins, September 14, 1879September 6, 1966, also known as Margaret Sanger Slee) was an American birth control activist, sex educator, writer, and nurse. Sanger popularized the term \"birth control\", opened the first birth control clinic in the United States, and established organizations that evolved into the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.\n\nSanger used her writings and speeches primarily to promote her way of thinking. She was prosecuted for her book \"Family Limitation\" under the Comstock Act in 1914. She was afraid of what would happen, so she fled to Britain until she knew it was safe to return to the US. Sanger's efforts contributed to several judicial cases that helped legalize contraception in the United States. Due to her connection with Planned Parenthood, Sanger is a frequent target of criticism by opponents of abortion. However, Sanger drew a sharp distinction between birth control and abortion and was opposed to abortion through the bulk of her career. Sanger remains an admired figure in the American reproductive rights movement. She has been criticized for supporting eugenics.\n\nIn 1916, Sanger opened the first birth control clinic in the United States, which led to her arrest for distributing information on contraception, after an undercover policewoman bought a copy of her pamphlet on family planning. Her subsequent trial and appeal generated controversy. Sanger felt that in order for women to have a more equal footing in society and to lead healthier lives, they needed to be able to determine when to bear children. She also wanted to prevent so-called back-alley abortions, which were common at the time because abortions were illegal in the United States. She believed that while abortion was sometimes justified it should generally be avoided, and she considered contraception the only practical way to avoid them.\n\nIn 1921, Sanger founded the American Birth Control League, which later became the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. In New York City, she organized the first birth control clinic staffed by all-female doctors, as well as a clinic in Harlem with an all African-American advisory council, where African-American staff were later added. In 1929, she formed the National Committee on Federal Legislation for Birth Control, which served as the focal point of her lobbying efforts to legalize contraception in the United States. From 1952 to 1959, Sanger served as president of the International Planned Parenthood Federation. She died in 1966, and is widely regarded as a founder of the modern birth control movement.\n\nSanger was born Margaret Louise Higgins in 1879 in Corning, New York, to Michael Hennessey Higgins, an Irish-born stonemason and free-thinker, and Anne Purcell Higgins, a Catholic Irish-American. Michael Hennessey Higgins had emigrated to the United States at age 14 and joined the Army as a drummer at age 15, during the Civil War. After leaving the army, Michael studied medicine and phrenology, but ultimately became a stonecutter, making stone angels, saints, and tombstones. Michael H. Higgins was a Catholic who became an atheist and an activist for women's suffrage and free public education.\n\nAnne was born in Ireland. Her parents brought the family to Canada during the Potato Famine. She married Michael in 1869. Anne Higgins went through 18 pregnancies (with 11 live births) in 22 years before dying at the age of 49. Sanger was the sixth of eleven surviving children, and spent much of her youth assisting with household chores and caring for her younger siblings.\n\nSupported by her two older sisters, Margaret Higgins attended Claverack College and Hudson River Institute, before enrolling in 1900 at White Plains Hospital as a nurse probationer. In 1902, she married the architect William Sanger and gave up her education. Though she was plagued by a recurring active tubercular condition, Margaret Sanger bore three children, and the couple settled down to a quiet life in Westchester, New York.\n\nIn 1911, after a fire destroyed their home in Hastings-on-Hudson, the Sangers abandoned the suburbs for a new life in New York City. Margaret Sanger worked as a visiting nurse in the slums of the East Side, while her husband worked as an architect and a house painter. Already imbued with her husband's leftist politics, Margaret Sanger also threw herself into the radical politics and modernist values of pre-World War I Greenwich Village bohemia. She joined the Women's Committee of the New York Socialist party, took part in the labor actions of the Industrial Workers of the World (including the notable 1912 Lawrence textile strike and the 1913 Paterson silk strike) and became involved with local intellectuals, left-wing artists, socialists and social activists, including John Reed, Upton Sinclair, Mabel Dodge and Emma Goldman.\n\nSanger's political interests, emerging feminism and nursing experience led her to write two series of columns on sex education entitled \"What Every Mother Should Know\" (1911–12) and \"What Every Girl Should Know\" (1912–13) for the socialist magazine \"New York Call.\" By the standards of the day, Sanger's articles were extremely frank in their discussion of sexuality, and many \"New York Call\" readers were outraged by them. Other readers, however, praised the series for its candor. One stated that the series contained \"a purer morality than whole libraries full of hypocritical cant about modesty\". Both were published in book form in 1916.\n\nDuring her work among working-class immigrant women, Sanger met women who underwent frequent childbirth, miscarriages and self-induced abortions for lack of information on how to avoid unwanted pregnancy. Access to contraceptive information was prohibited on grounds of obscenity by the 1873 federal Comstock law and a host of state laws. Seeking to help these women, Sanger visited public libraries, but was unable to find information on contraception. These problems were epitomized in a story that Sanger would later recount in her speeches: while Sanger was working as a nurse, she was called to the apartment of a woman, \"Sadie Sachs\", who had become extremely ill due to a self-induced abortion. Afterward, Sadie begged the attending doctor to tell her how she could prevent this from happening again, to which the doctor simply advised her to remain abstinent. A few months later, Sanger was called back to Sadie's apartment — only this time, Sadie\" died shortly after Sanger arrived. She had attempted yet another self-induced abortion. Sanger would sometimes end the story by saying, \"I threw my nursing bag in the corner and announced ... that I would never take another case until I had made it possible for working women in America to have the knowledge to control birth;\" biographer Ellen Chesler attempted unsuccessfully to find corroboration of this story.\n\nThis story – along with Sanger's 1904 rescue of her unwanted niece Olive Byrne from the snowbank in which she had been left—marks the beginning of Sanger's commitment to spare women from the pursuit of dangerous and illegal abortions. Sanger opposed abortion, but primarily as a societal ill and public health danger which would disappear if women were able to prevent unwanted pregnancy.\n\nGiven the connection between contraception and working-class empowerment, Sanger came to believe that only by liberating women from the risk of unwanted pregnancy would fundamental social change take place. She launched a campaign to challenge governmental censorship of contraceptive information through confrontational actions.\n\nSanger became estranged from her husband in 1913, and the couple's divorce was finalized in 1921. In 1922 she married her second husband, James Noah H. Slee.\n\nIn 1914, Sanger launched \"The Woman Rebel\", an eight-page monthly newsletter which promoted contraception using the slogan \"No Gods, No Masters\". Sanger, collaborating with anarchist friends, popularized the term \"birth control\" as a more candid alternative to euphemisms such as \"family limitation\"; the term \"birth control\" was suggested in 1914 by a young friend called Otto Bobstei Sanger proclaimed that each woman should be \"the absolute mistress of her own body.\" In these early years of Sanger's activism, she viewed birth control as a free-speech issue, and when she started publishing \"The Woman Rebel\", one of her goals was to provoke a legal challenge to the federal anti-obscenity laws which banned dissemination of information about contraception. Though postal authorities suppressed five of its seven issues, Sanger continued publication, all the while preparing \"Family Limitation\", another challenge to anti-birth control laws. This 16-page pamphlet contained detailed and precise information and graphic descriptions of various contraceptive methods. In August 1914 Margaret Sanger was indicted for violating postal obscenity laws by sending \"The Woman Rebel\" through the postal system. Rather than stand trial, she fled the country.\n\nMargaret Sanger spent much of her 1914 exile in England, where contact with British neo-Malthusians such as Charles Vickery Drysdale helped refine her socioeconomic justifications for birth control. She shared their concern that over-population led to poverty, famine and war. At the Fifth International Neo-Malthusian Conference in 1922, she was the first woman to chair a session. She organized the Sixth International Neo-Malthusian and Birth-Control Conference that took place in New York in 1925.> Over-population would remain a concern of hers for the rest of her life.\n\nDuring her 1914 trip to England, she was also profoundly influenced by the liberation theories of Havelock Ellis, under whose tutelage she sought not just to make sexual intercourse safer for women but more pleasurable. Another notable person she met around this time was Marie Stopes, who had run into Sanger after she had just given a talk on birth control at a Fabian Society meeting. Stopes showed Sanger her writings and sought her advice about a chapter on contraception.\n\nEarly in 1915, Margaret Sanger's estranged husband, William Sanger, gave a copy of \"Family Limitation\" to a representative of anti-vice politician Anthony Comstock. William Sanger was tried and convicted, spending thirty days in jail while attracting interest in birth control as an issue of civil liberty. Margaret's second husband, Noah Slee, also lent his help to her life's work. In 1928, Slee would smuggle diaphragms into New York through Canada in boxes labeled as 3-In-One Oil. He later became the first legal manufacturer of diaphragms in the United States.\n\nSome countries in northwestern Europe had more liberal policies towards contraception than the United States at the time, and when Sanger visited a Dutch birth control clinic in 1915, she learned about diaphragms and became convinced that they were a more effective means of contraception than the suppositories and douches that she had been distributing back in the United States. Diaphragms were generally unavailable in the United States, so Sanger and others began importing them from Europe, in defiance of United States law.\n\nOn October 16, 1916, Sanger opened a family planning and birth control clinic at 46 Amboy Street in the Brownsville neighborhood of Brooklyn, the first of its kind in the United States. Nine days after the clinic opened, Sanger was arrested. Sanger's bail was set at $500 and she went back home. Sanger continued seeing some women in the clinic until the police came a second time. This time, Sanger and her sister, Ethel Byrne, were arrested for breaking a New York state law that prohibited distribution of contraceptives. Sanger was also charged with running a public nuisance. Sanger and Byrne went to trial in January 1917. Byrne was convicted and sentenced to 30 days in a workhouse but went on a hunger strike. She was force-fed, the first woman hunger striker in the US to be so treated. Only when Sanger pledged that Byrne would never break the law was she pardoned after ten days. Sanger was convicted; the trial judge held that women did not have \"the right to copulate with a feeling of security that there will be no resulting conception.\" Sanger was offered a more lenient sentence if she promised to not break the law again, but she replied: \"I cannot respect the law as it exists today.\" For this, she was sentenced to 30 days in a workhouse. An initial appeal was rejected, but in a subsequent court proceeding in 1918, the birth control movement won a victory when Judge Frederick E. Crane of the New York Court of Appeals issued a ruling which allowed doctors to prescribe contraception. The publicity surrounding Sanger's arrest, trial, and appeal sparked birth control activism across the United States and earned the support of numerous donors, who would provide her with funding and support for future endeavors.\n\nIn February 1917, Sanger began publishing the monthly periodical \"Birth Control Review\".\n\nAfter World War I, Sanger shifted away from radical politics, and she founded the American Birth Control League (ABCL) in 1921 to enlarge her base of supporters to include the middle class. The founding principles of the ABCL were as follows:\n\nAfter Sanger's appeal of her conviction for the Brownsville clinic secured a 1918 court ruling that exempted physicians from the law prohibiting the distribution of contraceptive information to women (provided it was prescribed for medical reason), she established the Clinical Research Bureau (CRB) in 1923 to exploit this loophole. The CRB was the first legal birth control clinic in the United States, staffed entirely by female doctors and social workers. The clinic received extensive funding from John D. Rockefeller Jr. and his family, who continued to make anonymous donations to Sanger's causes in subsequent decades.\n\nJohn D. Rockefeller Jr. donated five thousand dollars to her American Birth Control League in 1924 and a second time in 1925.\nIn 1922, she traveled to China, Korea, and Japan. In China she observed that the primary method of family planning was female infanticide, and she later worked with Pearl Buck to establish a family planning clinic in Shanghai. Sanger visited Japan six times, working with Japanese feminist Kato Shidzue to promote birth control. This was ironic, since ten years earlier Sanger had accused Katō of murder and praised an attempt to kill her.\n\nIn 1928, conflict within the birth control movement leadership led Sanger to resign as the president of the ABCL and take full control of the CRB, renaming it the Birth Control Clinical Research Bureau (BCCRB), marking the beginning of a schism that would last until 1938.\n\nSanger invested a great deal of effort communicating with the general public. From 1916 onward, she frequently lectured (in churches, women's clubs, homes, and theaters) to workers, churchmen, liberals, socialists, scientists, and upper-class women. She once lectured on birth control to the women's auxiliary of the Ku Klux Klan in Silver Lake, New Jersey.\n\nShe wrote several books in the 1920s which had a nationwide impact in promoting the cause of birth control. Between 1920 and 1926, 567,000 copies of \"Woman and the New Race\" and \"The Pivot of Civilization\" were sold. She also wrote two autobiographies designed to promote the cause. The first, \"My Fight for Birth Control\", was published in 1931 and the second, more promotional version, \"Margaret Sanger: An Autobiography\", was published in 1938.\n\nDuring the 1920s, Sanger received hundreds of thousands of letters, many of them written in desperation by women begging for information on how to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Five hundred of these letters were compiled into the 1928 book, \"Motherhood in Bondage.\"\n\nSanger worked with African American leaders and professionals who saw a need for birth control in their communities. In 1929, James H. Hubert, a black social worker and the leader of New York's Urban League, asked Sanger to open a clinic in Harlem. Sanger secured funding from the Julius Rosenwald Fund and opened the clinic, staffed with black doctors, in 1930. The clinic was directed by a 15-member advisory board consisting of black doctors, nurses, clergy, journalists, and social workers. The clinic was publicized in the African-American press as well as in black churches, and it received the approval of W. E. B. Du Bois, the co-founder of the NAACP and the editor of its magazine, \" The Crisis.\" Sanger did not tolerate bigotry among her staff, nor would she tolerate any refusal to work within interracial projects. Sanger's work with minorities earned praise from Martin Luther King, Jr., in his 1966 acceptance speech for the Margaret Sanger award.\n\nFrom 1939 to 1942 Sanger was an honorary delegate of the Birth Control Federation of America, which included a supervisory role—alongside Mary Lasker and Clarence Gamble—in the Negro Project, an effort to deliver birth control to poor black people. Sanger, over the objections of other supervisors, wanted the Negro Project to hire black ministers in leadership roles. To emphasize the benefits of hiring black community leaders to act as spokesmen, she wrote to Gamble: We should hire three or four colored ministers, preferably with social-service backgrounds, and with engaging personalities. The most successful educational approach to the Negro is through a religious appeal. We don't want the word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population, and the minister is the man who can straighten out that idea if it ever occurs to any of their more rebellious members. New York University's \"Margaret Sanger Papers Project\" says that though the letter would have been meant to avoid the mistaken notion that the Negro Project was a racist campaign, conspiracy theorists have attempted to exploit the quotation \"as evidence she led a calculated effort to reduce the black population against their will\".\n\nIn 1929, Sanger formed the National Committee on Federal Legislation for Birth Control in order to lobby for legislation to overturn restrictions on contraception. That effort failed to achieve success, so Sanger ordered a diaphragm from Japan in 1932, in order to provoke a decisive battle in the courts. The diaphragm was confiscated by the United States government, and Sanger's subsequent legal challenge led to a 1936 court decision which overturned an important provision of the Comstock laws which prohibited physicians from obtaining contraceptives. This court victory motivated the American Medical Association in 1937 to adopt contraception as a normal medical service and a key component of medical school curriculums.\n\nThis 1936 contraception court victory was the culmination of Sanger's birth control efforts, and she took the opportunity, now in her late 50s, to move to Tucson, Arizona, intending to play a less critical role in the birth control movement. In spite of her original intentions, she remained active in the movement through the 1950s.\n\nIn 1937, Sanger became chairman of the newly formed Birth Control Council of America, and attempted to resolve the schism between the ABCL and the BCCRB. Her efforts were successful, and the two organizations merged in 1939 as the Birth Control Federation of America. Although Sanger continued in the role of president, she no longer wielded the same power as she had in the early years of the movement, and in 1942, more conservative forces within the organization changed the name to Planned Parenthood Federation of America, a name Sanger objected to because she considered it too euphemistic.\n\nIn 1948, Sanger helped found the International Committee on Planned Parenthood, which evolved into the International Planned Parenthood Federation in 1952, and soon became the world's largest non-governmental international women's health, family planning and birth control organization. Sanger was the organization's first president and served in that role until she was 80 years old. In the early 1950s, Sanger encouraged philanthropist Katharine McCormick to provide funding for biologist Gregory Pincus to develop the birth control pill which was eventually sold under the name Enovid. Pincus had recruited Dr. John Rock, Harvard gynecologist, to investigate clinical use of progesterone to prevent ovulation. (\"The Pill\" (2009). PBS series. Retrieved November 29, 2009.)\n\nSanger died of congestive heart failure in 1966 in Tucson, Arizona, aged 86, about a year after the U.S. Supreme Court case \"Griswold v. Connecticut\", which legalized birth control in the United States. Sanger is buried in Fishkill, New York, next to her sister, Nan Higgins, and her second husband, Noah Slee. One of her surviving brothers was College Football Hall of Fame player and Pennsylvania State University Head Football coach Bob Higgins.\n\nWhile researching information on contraception, Sanger read treatises on sexuality including \"The Psychology of Sex\" by the English psychologist Havelock Ellis and was heavily influenced by it. While traveling in Europe in 1914, Sanger met Ellis. Influenced by Ellis, Sanger adopted his view of sexuality as a powerful, liberating force. This view provided another argument in favor of birth control, as it would enable women to fully enjoy sexual relations without fear of unwanted pregnancy. Sanger also believed that sexuality, along with birth control, should be discussed with more candor, and praised Ellis for his efforts in this direction. She also blamed Christianity for the suppression of such discussion.\n\nSanger opposed excessive sexual indulgence. She wrote that \"every normal man and woman has the power to control and direct his sexual impulse. Men and women who have it in control and constantly use their brain cells thinking deeply, are never sensual.\" Sanger said that birth control would elevate women away from a position of being an object of lust and elevate sex away from purely being for satisfying lust, saying that birth control \"denies that sex should be reduced to the position of sensual lust, or that woman should permit herself to be the instrument of its satisfaction.\" Sanger wrote that masturbation was dangerous. She stated:\n\"In my personal experience as a trained nurse while attending persons afflicted with various and often revolting diseases, no matter what their ailments, I never found any one so repulsive as the chronic masturbator. It would not be difficult to fill page upon page of heart-rending confessions made by young girls, whose lives were blighted by this pernicious habit, always begun so innocently.\" She believed that women had the ability to control their sexual impulses, and should utilize that control to avoid sex outside of relationships marked by \"confidence and respect.\" She believed that exercising such control would lead to the \"strongest and most sacred passion.\" However, Sanger was not opposed to homosexuality and praised Ellis for clarifying \"the question of homosexuals... making the thing a—not exactly a perverted thing, but a thing that a person is born with different kinds of eyes, different kinds of structures and so forth... that he didn't make all homosexuals perverts—and I thought he helped clarify that to the medical profession and to the scientists of the world as perhaps one of the first ones to do that.\"\n\nSanger opposed censorship throughout her career. Sanger grew up in a home where orator Robert Ingersoll was admired. During the early years of her activism, Sanger viewed birth control primarily as a free-speech issue, rather than as a feminist issue, and when she started publishing \"The Woman Rebel\" in 1914, she did so with the express goal of provoking a legal challenge to the Comstock laws banning dissemination of information about contraception. In New York, Emma Goldman introduced Sanger to members of the Free Speech League, such as Edward Bliss Foote and Theodore Schroeder, and subsequently the League provided funding and advice to help Sanger with legal battles.\n\nOver the course of her career, Sanger was arrested at least eight times for expressing her views during an era in which speaking publicly about contraception was illegal. Numerous times in her career, local government officials prevented Sanger from speaking by shuttering a facility or threatening her hosts. In Boston in 1929, city officials under the leadership of James Curley threatened to arrest her if she spoke. In response she stood on stage, silent, with a gag over her mouth, while her speech was read by Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr.\n\nAfter World War I, Sanger increasingly appealed to the societal need to limit births by those least able to afford children. The affluent and educated already limited their child-bearing, while the poor and uneducated lacked access to contraception and information about birth control. Here she found an area of overlap with eugenicists. She believed that they both sought to \"assist the race toward the elimination of the unfit.\" They differed in that \"eugenists imply or insist that a woman's first duty is to the state; we contend that her duty to herself is her duty to the state.\" Sanger was a proponent of negative eugenics, which aimed to improve human hereditary traits through social intervention by reducing the reproduction of those who were considered unfit.\n\nSanger's view of eugenics was influenced by Havelock Ellis and other British eugenicists, who held that environmentally acquired traits were inherited by one's progeny. Consequently, she rejected race and ethnicity as determining factors. Instead, she stressed limiting the number of births to live within one's economic ability to raise and support healthy children. This would lead to a betterment of society and the human race. Sanger's view put her at odds with leading American eugenicists, such as Charles Davenport, who took a racist view of inherited traits. She continually rejected their approach.\n\nIn \"The Morality of Birth Control\", a 1921 speech, she divided society into three groups: the \"educated and informed\" class that regulated the size of their families, the \"intelligent and responsible\" who desired to control their families in spite of lacking the means or the knowledge, and the \"irresponsible and reckless people\" whose religious scruples \"prevent their exercising control over their numbers.\" Sanger concludes, \"There is no doubt in the minds of all thinking people that the procreation of this group should be stopped.\"\n\nSanger's eugenic policies included an exclusionary immigration policy, free access to birth control methods, and full family planning autonomy for the able-minded, as well as compulsory segregation or sterilization for the \"profoundly retarded\". Sanger wrote, \"we [do not] believe that the community could or should send to the lethal chamber the defective progeny resulting from irresponsible and unintelligent breeding.\" In personal correspondence she expressed her sadness about the aggressive and lethal Nazi eugenics program; and donated to the American Council Against Nazi Propaganda. In addition, Sanger believed the responsibility for birth control should remain with able-minded individual parents rather than the state, and that self-determining motherhood was the only unshakable foundation for racial betterment.\n\nMargaret Sanger justified her decision to speak to a Ku Klux Klan group by explaining, \"to me any aroused group is a good group.\" She was closely associated with one of the most influential and extreme racist authors in America in the 1920s and 1930s, the klansman and Nazi sympathizer Lothrop Stoddard. Chesler comments:\n\nDuring the years of her greatest influence she opposed abortion and sharply distinguished between birth control, which she saw as a fundamental right of women, and access to abortion, which she did not see as such a right. Already in 1916 when she opened her first birth control clinic she was employing harsh rhetoric against abortion. Flyers she distributed to women exhorted them in all capitals: \"Do not kill, do not take life, but prevent.\" Sanger's patients were told \"that abortion was the wrong way – no matter how early it was performed it was taking life; that contraception was the better way, the safer way – it took a little time, a little trouble, but it was well worth while in the long run, because life had not yet begun.\" Sanger consistently distanced herself from any calls for legal access to abortion, arguing that legal access to contraceptives would remove the need for abortion. Ann Hibner Koblitz has argued that Sanger's anti-abortion stance contributed to the further stigmatization of abortion and impeded the growth of the broader reproductive rights movement.\n\nSanger's writings are curated by two universities: New York University's history department maintains the \"Margaret Sanger Papers Project\", and Smith College's Sophia Smith Collection maintains the \"Margaret Sanger Papers\" collection.\n\nSanger's story also features in several biographies, including David Kennedy's biography \"Birth Control in America: The Career of Margaret Sanger\" (1970), which won the Bancroft Prize and the John Gilmary Shea Prize. She is also the subject of the television films \"Portrait of a Rebel: The Remarkable Mrs. Sanger\" (1980), and \"\" (1995). In 2013, the American cartoonist Peter Bagge published \"Woman Rebel\", a full-length graphic-novel biography of Sanger.\n\nSanger has been recognized with several honors. Her speech \"Children's Era\", given in 1925, is listed as #81 in American Rhetoric's Top 100 Speeches of the 20th Century (listed by rank). Sanger was an inspiration for Wonder Woman, a comic-book character introduced by William Marston in 1941. Marston was influenced by early feminist thought while in college, and later formed a romantic relationship with Sanger's niece, Olive Byrne. According to Jill Lepore, several Wonder Woman story lines were at least in part inspired by Sanger, like the character's involvement with different labor strikes and protests. Between (and including) 1953 and 1963 Sanger was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize 31 times. In 1957, the American Humanist Association named her Humanist of the Year. In 1966 Planned Parenthood began issuing its Margaret Sanger Awards annually to honor \"individuals of distinction in recognition of excellence and leadership in furthering reproductive health and reproductive rights\". The 1979 artwork \"The Dinner Party\" features a place setting for her. In 1981, Sanger was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame. In 1993 the United States National Park Service designated the Margaret Sanger Clinic—where she provided birth-control services in New York in the mid-twentieth century—as a National Historic Landmark. As well, government authorities and other institutions have memorialized Sanger by dedicating several landmarks in her name, including a residential building on the Stony Brook University campus, a room in Wellesley College's library, and Margaret Sanger Square in New York City's Noho area. There is a bust of Sanger in the National Portrait Gallery, which was a gift from Cordelia Scaife May. Sanger, a crater in the northern hemisphere of Venus, takes its name from Margaret Sanger.\n\nDue to her connection with Planned Parenthood, many who oppose abortion frequently condemn Sanger by criticizing her views on birth control and eugenics. In spite of such controversies, Sanger continues to be regarded as a force in the American reproductive rights movement and women's rights movement.\n\nIn the 21st century, Sanger is regarded as an early American democratic socialist.\n\nBooks and pamphlets\n\nPeriodicals\n\nCollections and anthologies\n\nSpeeches\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56047050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56047050", "title": "Margarita Musto", "text": "Margarita Musto\n\nMargarita Musto (born 16 November 1955) is a Uruguayan actress, theater director, translator, teacher, and general and artistic director of the .\n\nMargarita Musto graduated in 1982 from the (EMAD). She has worked under directors such as Carlos Aguilera, Jorge Curi, Mario Morgan, Omar Varela, China Zorrilla, David Hammond, and Valentin Tepliakov. She participated in works by classic authors such as Chekhov, Shakespeare, and Federico García Lorca.\n\nShe worked on the television series \"Los Tres\". In cinema, she played the leading role in ', under the direction of Beatriz Flores Silva. For this role she received awards at the Guadalajara International Film Festival and the 12th Cinematographic Festival of Uruguay. In 2008, Flores Silva directed her again in '. She has participated in other films such as ' (1997) by Manane Rodríguez, and ' (2002) and \"\" (2002) by Luis Nieto.\n\nAs a theater actress, one of Musto's most relevant works was \"Breaking the Code\" by Hugh Whitemore, about the life of Alan Turing. Directed by Héctor Manuel Vidal, the play ran for four years and more than 300 showings, as of 1994. Other important interpretations in her career were \"\", \"Una relación pornográfica\", \"Frozen\", \"Sonata de otoño\" (directed by Omar Varela), \"Madre Coraje\", \"Closer\", and \"An Inspector Calls\" (for China Zorrilla).\n\nHer play \"En honor al mérito\", based on the investigation of the murder of Zelmar Michelini, and in which she also acted, was released in 2000 at theater. Thanks to this work, she won the 2001 in the best national author text category, and the first dramaturgy prize of the . In 2011 she again received the Florencio for best direction and the best theatrical show of the season for \"Blackbird\" by Scottish dramatist David Harrower. Another of her successes as a director was \"Top Girls\" by the English playwright Caryl Churchill.\n\nMuasto has translated plays from French and English into Spanish. She teaches at EMAD and the , as well as holding acting workshops. From 2 January 2013 to 2016, she served as director general and artistic director of the Comedia Nacional, being the first woman to hold that position.\n\nIn 2004 the Uruguayan branch of B'nai B'rith presented her with the Fraternity Award for her theatrical career.\n\nShe was the wife of theater director Héctor Manuel Vidal, who died in 2014. Her daughter María Vidal Musto is a theater actress.\n\n"}
{"id": "12151439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12151439", "title": "Mark Kittleson", "text": "Mark Kittleson\n\nDr. Mark J. Kittleson, Professor of Health Education at Southern Illinois University (SIU) has followed in the footsteps of his outstanding predecessors at SIU, Robert Gold and David Duncan, in becoming a leader in the development of PC-based and web-based applications in health education. In 1992, he established an email discussion group that came to be known as the Health Education Directory or HEDIR, which has been called the most significant development to impact health education in the past 20 years (McDermott, 1998). Under his leadership HEDIR has given rise to the HEDIR Award, which recognizes contributions to the applications of technology to health education.\n\nDr. Kittleson was the founder and first editor, in 1998, of the \"International Electronic Journal of Health Education\" and is author of a column in the \"American Journal of Health Behavior\", entitled \"Electronic Notes,\" which is designed to improve understanding and utilization of technology for conducting research on health behavior.\n\nHe began his professional career in health education at the Maine Health Education Resource Center, where he worked with Charles Basch under the direction of William H. Zimmerli. He then returned to school at the University of Akron, completing his Ph.D. there in 1986. He taught at Youngstown State University until 1989 when he joined the faculty of SIU.\n\nDr. Kittleson is the author of 15 books—some of the more recent have been \"Vital Statistics for the Public Health Educator\", 2nd edition (HEDIR Publishing, 2005), \"Mental Health: Dimensions of Self-Esteem and Emotional Well-Being\" (with N. Eburne and J. Donnelly) (Allyn and Bacon Publishers, 2000), and \"Using Excel to Run Statistics\" (HEDIR Publishing, 2005). He has also published more than eighty peer-reviewed articles in such journals as the \"Journal of Health Education\", the \"Journal of School Health\", the \"Journal of Family Practice\", the \"Southern Medical Journal\", \"AIDS Education and Prevention\", and the \"American Journal of Health Behavior\". Most of his publications focus on needs assessment of teachers, particularly with respect to HIV/AIDS information; and the impact of the Internet and other technology on research and research communication. \nMcDermott, R. J. (1998). \"Inside The Academy: Profiling Mark J. Kittleson, Ph.D.\" \"American Journal of Health Behavior\", 22(5), 393-394.\n"}
{"id": "40628388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40628388", "title": "Michael Corbey", "text": "Michael Corbey\n\nMichael Hubert Corbey (born 1963) is a Dutch business economist, management consultant, and Professor of Accounting and Control at the TIAS School for Business and Society at the Tilburg University.\n\nCorbey grew up in Roermond and received his MA in Technology Management at the Eindhoven University of Technology, and in 1995 his PhD with a thesis entitled \"Logistiek management & management accounting : logistieke flexibiliteit in bedrijfseconomisch perspectief\" (logistic management & management accounting: logistic flexibility in business economical perspective) under supervision of Jacques Theeuwes.\n\nCorbey started his career working in industry and consultancy. In 1993 he returned to the academic world and became Associate Professor at the Faculty of Economics of the Tilburg University. In 1997-98 he was Visiting faculty at the INSEAD Business School in Fontainebleau. In 1999 he was appointed Professor Management Accounting and Control at the Maastricht University and Director of the Register Controller program. In 2002 he was appointed Professor of Management Accounting and Control at the TIAS School for Business and Society at the Tilburg University.\nCorbey is member of the editorial board of the \"Maandblad voor Accountancy en Bedrijfseconomie\" and \"Tijdschrift voor Organisaties in Control\" and others. In 2006 and 2007 Corbey was awarded the TiasNimbas Best Teacher Award.\n\nBooks, a selection:\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "19078889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19078889", "title": "Mobile laboratory", "text": "Mobile laboratory\n\nA mobile laboratory is a laboratory that is either fully housed within or transported by a vehicle such as a converted bus, RV, or tractor-trailer.\nSuch vehicles can serve a variety of functions, including:\n\nA novel use of the mobile laboratory is in science education. In some cases, the mobile laboratory travels to schools, museums, and other community organizations, providing the schools with educational resources which they otherwise lack. The mobile laboratory coalition is a loose partnership of groups that provide such services. In other cases, students must also travel to the mobile lab, such as when the lab takes the form of a boat or a train. Mobile laboratories have recently been gaining favor from the National Institutes of Health, in the form of the particular mobile laboratories such as the Biobus and the Boston University MobileLab, as a way to develop knowledge and understanding regarding biotechnology and medicine amongst the United States population.\n\nThe practice of mobile teaching labs exists outside the USA as well with examples, in the UK and in African countries. The UK Institute of Physics is touring secondary schools with their Lab in a Lorry. This is a large articulated truck with three small laboratories. In these, pupils can learn about the use of Physics in Medicine, and do hands-on experiments with light and sound using good physics lab equipment. These are guided by local volunteers and an IoP scientist. Volunteers usually have an interest in general science, or come from a science background. The project has the backing of the British Science Association, the STEMNET Ambassadors Scheme, and sponsors such as EDF Energy.\n"}
{"id": "57308767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57308767", "title": "Night self-learning", "text": "Night self-learning\n\nNight self-learning (; ) is a self-administered program available to students from some middle schools and most high schools in mainland China, Taiwan, South Korea and Germany. This includes the zero hour class before the regular class (also called \"morning self-learning\" ()) and the night self-learning after the regular class. Since it is a self-learning program, it does not offer educational programs like supplementary classes or after-school programs.\n\nUsually, the concept of \"self-learning\" is not to unilaterally accept learning in the course of the teacher's control according to the teacher's advance plans, as is the case with traditional teaching activities, but instead learner feels the need to learn on its own and studies own poor’s subject after self-planning. It is used in the same term as \"Independent learning\" as it is opposed to \"Other-directed learning\". Also, it is based on spontaneity, creativity and autonomy.\n\nHowever, it is used as a different concept in South Korea. Night self-learning is a strictly passive learning process, and it is enforced under the supervision of a teacher in South Korea. In South Korea, night self-learning for high school students begins at around 6 pm. on average when classes are completed and night self-learning is finished until 9 pm, 10 pm. Depending on the school, students who want to study at night after regular night self-hours will be able to study for an additional hour. The average Korean high school students spend 10 hours 47 minutes studying, and it is believed that the impact of ‘the zero class’ and ‘night self-learning’ is significant.\n\nBecause of the policy of ‘The Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development (MOHRD)’, the compulsory night self-study was prohibited, but the standardized self-learning continued. Some people argue that self-learning from early morning till late night is detrimental to the health of students and do not help them learn efficiently in the long run. In China, similar to the above education system, self-learning is also being conducted. The government's basic policy is to leave school at 4 p.m., but generally, middle and high school students stay at school from 8 pm to 9 pm. Accordingly, there was an opposite signature on the Internet.\n\nThe night self-learning started in 1980 with the July 30 educational reform measures. The focus of the education reform was the normalization of school education and the elimination of excessive private tutoring. In particular, the college entrance exam and overheating private tutoring were emerging as educational issues and general problems of society at that time. At the time, the education authoritiessaid that over-heating private tutoring not only greatly hampered the normalization of school education, but also created a sense of crisis among the classes. As the private tutoring and supplementary classes were abolished after the educational reform measures, the school judged that the preparation for the college entrance exam was insufficient only with regular classes. It was an origin of the night self-learning. At that time, the education authorities continuously prohibited night self-learning from being directed against the normalization of education measures, but schools in the front line continued to violate the ban, making night free learning secretly. In the past, this had been repeated over and over again. However, as more and more schools implemented night self- learning, the educational authorities admitted that in principle, night self-learning should be done through the free participation of the students.\n\nSince the introduction of high school standardization, high schools in most parts of the country have tried to nurture prestigious schools. The school increased the night self-study to get more students into top universities. However, there are persistent opinions about the abolition of night self-learning. Because they have thought the compulsory night self-learning system ignored the human rights of students and the educational effects were also doubtful. Accordingly, the Ministry of Education banned the uniform supplementary learning at high schools and the night self-learning after 10 p.m.\n\nIn present, 1,900 out of 2,258 schools across the Korea are found to be implementing night self-learning. Although there are many schools that make students do night self-learning voluntarily, there are still high schools that force their students to do it compulsorily. However, night self-learning is gradually being abolished in the Greater Seoul area.\n\nUnder the current system, high schools that have abolished night self-learning accept students to study in classrooms through application. However, students who have no place to study at night eventually study at school. Instead of reading in rooms and private educational institutes, students choose school because of the high financial burden. Some students are having dinner at convenience stores because there is no dinner offered when the night self-learning was conducted. Schools and local governments should make sure that students who participate in night self-study receive a good dinner at school. These are the minimum considerations that an educator can give to students who want to study. It is not the only problem. Private education costs are rising as more student flock to nearby private educational institutes. Furthermore, if all students had similar quality education and private education cost was reduced due to night self-learning, the private education portion increased by the night self-learning abolition, changing the quality of education for each student. For example, innovation schools in Busan have strengthened public education by freely implementing night free learning. Due to that, the number of under-grade students has declined.\n\nOf course, there are positive effects as well. Unconditioned night self-learning is really passionate about studying and involves students who try to get into college. Therefore, the academic atmosphere in classrooms that enforce night self-learning is created. Or, students who want to do physical education or other self-improvement can study or attend private educational institutes. Ultimately, it is meaningful that the great cause of human rights for students has been fulfilled. The majority of people now support the abolition of night self-learning. Unlike regular classes, where all students have to be guided manually, night self-learning is a time when students can self-led their studies. However, there are many people who oppose it. The main reason for this is rising private education costs, followed by a rise in juvenile delinquency and a decrease in learning time. Therefore, a policy to reduce private education expenses is necessary to increase the effectiveness of the abolition of night self-learning. In addition, various programs within the school should be developed and operated considering students ' career path or aptitude.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27312009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27312009", "title": "North Carolina State University Insect Museum", "text": "North Carolina State University Insect Museum\n\nThe NCSU Insect Museum is the center for research and training in insect systematics and biodiversity informatics at North Carolina State University. The Museum's collections hold more than 1.5 million specimens, with major emphases on the insects of North Carolina and on the Auchenorrhyncha and Aphididae (Hemiptera) of the world. A smaller but historically important part of the collection (especially for bees of the eastern USA) is dedicated to Hymenoptera.\n\nDeitz (1983a and 1983b) provides the most comprehensive reviews of the history of the NCSU Insect Museum. Insect reference collections started growing soon after the foundation of NC State University in 1889, with each individual collection being cared for by one curator. These multiple independent collections across campus were then collated into a single resource in 1952, then referred to as the Entomology Museum. This effort was organized by Zeno P. Metcalf, an Auchenorrhyncha systematist who served as the Insect Museum's first director.\n\nThis museum has since been referred to as the NCSU Insect Museum, and it continues to serve as a resource for entomologists who need to identify specimens, for researchers attempting to understand more about species distributions through time, for students learning insect taxonomy, and as a repository for vouchers that reference entomological research.\n\n"}
{"id": "10136453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10136453", "title": "Pekka Haavisto", "text": "Pekka Haavisto\n\nPekka Olavi Haavisto (born 23 March 1958 in Helsinki) is a Finnish politician, minister and leader of Green League. He returned to the Finnish Parliament in the Finnish parliamentary election of March 2007 after an absence of 12 years and was re-elected again in 2011. In October 2013 he was appointed as the Minister for International Development after Heidi Hautala resigned from the job. He has also been a member of the Helsinki City Council.\n\nHaavisto was a member of the Parliament of Finland from 1987 to 1995. He was the chairperson of the Green League from 1993 to 1995. He served as the Minister of the Environment in Paavo Lipponen's first cabinet between 1995 and 1999. He was the first European cabinet minister representing a Green party.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2005, Haavisto worked for the United Nations in various tasks. He led the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) research groups in Kosovo, Afghanistan, Iraq, Liberia, Palestine and Sudan. He also coordinated the UN investigation in the effects of depleted uranium in Kosovo, Montenegro, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Haavisto also represented the UNEP in the investigations in the Baia Mare mining accident in Romania. In 2005 he was appointed as the special representative of the European Union in Sudan where he participated in the Darfur peace talks.\n\nIn 2007 and 2011 Haavisto was re-elected to the parliament from the electoral district of Helsinki.\n\nIn 2011, Haavisto was nominated as the Green League candidate for the Finnish presidential election of 2012. In the first round of the election on 22 January 2012, he finished second with 18.8 percent of the votes. In the run-off on 5 February, he garnered more than one million votes (37.4 percent), yet still losing to the National Coalition Party candidate, former Finance Minister Sauli Niinistö.\nHaavisto was the first openly gay candidate and the first male candidate to have served in non-military service instead of the regular military service to make it to the second round of presidential elections in Finland.\n\nIn February 2017, Haavisto announced that he would reprise his candidacy in the 2018 presidential election. The decision came after Haavisto had been approached multiple times by the Green League. In the election, Haavisto placed second with 12.4 percent of the votes, while president Niinistö went on to secure his second term with a majority of votes.\n\nIn October 2018, the chairman of the Green League Touko Aalto announced that he is resigning from his post, citing depression and fatigue. The decision prompted an immediate leadership election, with the goal to elect a temporary chairman to lead the party into the 2019 parliamentary elections and until the next party convention. As many members of the party called for more prominent and experience politicians to take part in the election, Haavisto announced his candidacy. On 4 November 2018, he defeated MP Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto in a leadership election and was thus chosen to lead the party.\n\n\nAfter completing the matriculation examination of the upper secondary school, Haavisto began studying social sciences at the University of Helsinki but did not complete the degree.\nAs a young man he chose non-military service over armed service in the Defence Forces.\n\nHaavisto is openly gay; he lives in a registered partnership with Nexar Antonio Flores, an Ecuadorian man.\n\nAccording to the ranking of the Finnish \"Ulkopolitiikka\" magazine in 2009 Pekka Haavisto was internationally the 5th most influential person in Finland.\n\n"}
{"id": "189922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189922", "title": "Pieter Burman the Younger", "text": "Pieter Burman the Younger\n\nPieter Burman (23 October 1713 – 24 June 1778), also known as Peter or Pieter Burmann () and distinguished from his uncle as (' or '), was a Dutch philologist.\n\nBorn at Amsterdam, he was brought up by his uncle in Leiden, and afterwards studied law and philology under CA Duker and Arnold von Drakenborch at Utrecht. In 1735 he was appointed professor of eloquence and history at Franeker, with which the chair of poetry was combined in 1741. In the following year he left Franeker for Amsterdam to become professor of history and philology at the Athenaeum. He was subsequently professor of poetry (1744), general librarian (1752), and inspector of the gymnasium (1753). In 1777 he retired, and died on 24 June 1778 at Santhorst, near Wassenaar.\n\nHe resembled his more famous uncle in the manner and direction of his studies, and in his violent disposition, which involved him in quarrels with contemporaries, notably Saxe and Christian Adolph Klotz. He was a man of extensive learning, and had a great talent for Latin poetry. His most valuable works are:\n\nHe completed the editions of Vergil (1767) and Claudian (1760), which had been left unfinished by his uncle, and commenced an edition of Propertius, one of his best works, which was only half printed at the time of his death. It was completed by L. van Santen and published in 1780.\n"}
{"id": "19879107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19879107", "title": "Pilar Barbosa Education Program", "text": "Pilar Barbosa Education Program\n\nThe Pilar Barbosa Education Program is a program in Puerto Rico created as a means to provide professional development training opportunities for public school practitioners and educators in that city. The program serves as a catalyst for long term educational realignment using the graduates as agents of sustainable reform in the public school system.\n\nOn July 27, 1997, the Senate of Puerto Rico approved law #53, authored by Sen. Kenneth McClintock, a Barbosa protégé, which created \"The Pilar Barbosa Program of Educational Interns\". The program was later renamed \"The Pilar Barbosa Educational Internship Program.\"\n\nProgram participants are K-12 public school teachers and administrators from Puerto Rico. Every summer, 25 participants go to Washington, D.C. to take part in a myriad of activities including workshops, tours, lectures and group assignments that focus on U.S. education trends and policies in the context of Puerto Rico, integration of technology in the curriculum, innovative curriculum design, and educational leadership.\n\nClose to 300 public school educators have participated in the program since its inception. The Washington Center for Internships and Academic Seminars successfully administered the Pilar Barbosa Education Internship Program in Washington, D.C. the summers of 1998, 1999, 2000, 2002, 2003, 2005-2009. The Washington Center provides an integrated academic and work experience to prepare participants for lives of leadership, professional achievement, and civic engagement.\n\nThe Pilar Barbosa Internship Program is designed within the context of four basic themes: \"Leadership in Education\", \"Federal Education Policies in the Context of Puerto Rico\", \"21st Century Teaching\" and \"Integration of Technology in the Classroom\".\n\nLeadership in education allows participants to look into education trends and how they may impact K-12 education in Puerto Rico. Federal education policies in the context of Puerto Rico focuses primarily on No Child Left Behind and other federal education issues. 21st century teaching looks particularly into various models on innovative teaching in math and science, and strategies for curriculum integration. Finally, models for utilizing technology in the classroom demonstrate practical uses of multimedia in K-12 teaching.\n\nThe Pilar Barbosa Education Internship Program delivers on these themes using a series of seminars, orientations, panels, workshops and visits to educational facilities, through which participants broaden their perspectives about innovating education in Puerto Rico.\n"}
{"id": "5395017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5395017", "title": "Postmedia Canspell National Spelling Bee", "text": "Postmedia Canspell National Spelling Bee\n\nThe Postmedia Canspell National Spelling Bee, formerly called the Canwest Canspell National Spelling Bee, was a spelling bee held annually in Canada since 2005. The bee is affiliated with the United States-based Scripps National Spelling Bee and uses similar rules and word lists, adapted to best suit Canadian usage and spelling. It is organized by the Postmedia Network, though it was previously organized by now bankrupt Canwest Global Communications, parent company of 9 of the regional sponsors. Canwest Canspell ended in 2012.\n\nAs of 2011, regional finals are held in 21 Canadian cities from Victoria to St. John's.\n\nThe winner in each of the regional finals participated in the national final in Ottawa each April from 2005 to 2010. From 2005 to 2009, the regional winners also qualified for the Scripps National Spelling Bee in Washington D.C. whether they won the nationals or not. In 2010, because of the economic downturn and Canwest's bankruptcy, only the winner of the nationals participated in the SNSB. From 2011 onwards, the top 3 spellers, including the national champion, will compete in the SNSB.\n\nThe name of the competition was changed subtly in 2009 from \"CanWest CanSpell\" to \"Canwest Canspell\", in line with Canwest's elimination of CamelCase spelling from its corporate brand.\n\nIn late 2010, the competition was renamed the Postmedia Canspell Spelling Bee as a result of Canwest's bankruptcy in October 2009, where Canwest's assets were sold to Shaw Communications and the Postmedia Network.\n\nWhen Canwest sponsored the bee, it enjoyed significant coverage from Canwest-owned media outlets. A documentary on the event was produced in 2005, a live broadcast was aired in 2007, and edited versions of the finals were broadcast in 2006 and 2008. These broadcasts were all aired on the Global Television Network. Live webcasts are also featured each year. In 2011, CBC became the new broadcast partner and created a special one-hour primetime feature on the Canadian final called \"Spelling Night in Canada\". It usually takes place in the last week of March.\n\nAll Postmedia daily newspapers participate in the spelling bee, with the exception of \"The Province\" in Vancouver, as the company also owns the sponsoring \"Vancouver Sun\". Postmedia's \"National Post\", based in the Toronto area, serves as sponsor for that market. Uniquely, the Hamilton competition was co-sponsored by the \"National Post\" and a Canwest-owned TV station, CHCH-TV, and not a local paper such as \"The Hamilton Spectator\". Hamilton does not have a local sponsor beyond 2009, after which CHCH was sold from Canwest to Channel Zero Inc. Hamilton spellers compete at the Toronto National Post spelling bee.\n\nOther newspaper sponsors include the \"Winnipeg Free Press\", \"The Telegram\" in St. John's, \"The Chronicle Herald\" in Halifax, \"The Chronicle-Journal\" in Thunder Bay, and \"The Guardian\" in Charlottetown and The Daily News in Kamloops, British Columbia.\n\nThe Saturn brand of General Motors was the presenting sponsor for 2005 and 2006. Saturn withdrew in 2007 and was replaced by Canada Post. Other national sponsors have included Air Canada, AIC Limited, Oxford University Press, the Canadian Museum of Civilization, and the Lord Elgin Hotel. The current national sponsors are Egg Farmers of Canada and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC).\n\n"}
{"id": "10886670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10886670", "title": "Richard E. Pattis", "text": "Richard E. Pattis\n\nRichard E. Pattis is a senior lecturer at the University of California, Irvine's Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences.\n\nHe is the author of the Karel programming language, and published \"Karel the Robot: A gentle introduction to the art of programming\".\n\nPattis has been a professor of computer science at Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Washington. He holds a master's degree from Stanford University.\n\n"}
{"id": "25769050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25769050", "title": "Robert V. Lee", "text": "Robert V. Lee\n\nThe Rev. Dr. Robert Vernon Lee, III is a humanitarian, Episcopal priest and is chairman and CEO of Jacksonville, Florida-based nonprofit FreshMinistries and its international arm, Be The Change International. Dr. Lee is responsible for the creation of a number of unique and successful global initiatives and partnerships addressing issues of poverty worldwide. In the United States, efforts began with programs vital to the restoration of core-city Jacksonville. He has also spearheaded partnerships in Africa designed to combat HIV/AIDS and to address the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, uniquely addressing all goals at once.\n\nDr. Robert Vernon Lee, III, was born January 14, 1951 in El Paso, Texas to Colonel Robert V. Lee, Jr. and Cynthia Warren Lee. He is a renowned Episcopal Priest, Humanitarian, and Founder/CEO and Chairman of FreshMinistries and Be The Change International.\n\nHe earned his bachelor's degree from Vanderbilt University and continued graduate studies in journalism at the University of Georgia. Upon accepting his calling into the ministry, he earned a master’s of divinity from Yale University and a doctorate of theology from New York Theological Seminary.\n\nAfter serving as rector of Church of Our Saviour in Jacksonville, Florida, Dr. Lee was called to establish a new kind of ministry. Having created the concept for FreshMinistries in 1988 and incorporating it into a working 501(c)(3) in 1989, Dr. Lee elevated the organization to a full-time ministry in 1994.\nIt was his dream to bring his ministry out of the church and into the community to serve all faiths and races. His interfaith, interracial outreach unites people in need and the people who have resources to share with the less fortunate. Dr. Lee’s mission for FreshMinistries and its partners is to utilize all available resources as tools to empower individuals in need with opportunities to improve their lives and those of their families. These opportunities, provided through the many programs of FreshMinistries, work through education, economic redevelopment, health initiatives and housing in communities throughout the world.\n\nCurrently serving as a non-stipendiary Canon for Outreach and Ecumenism in the Diocese of Florida, he's also served parishes in Connecticut and Florida.\n\nHe has served as the Chairman of the Interfaith Sub-Committee of the 2005 Super Bowl Host Committee in Jacksonville and as a director for: St. Mary’s Outreach Ministry in Jacksonville, the Samaritan Center, Dignity-U-Wear, Christian Healing Ministries, and the Florida Council of Churches.\nBy appointment of Governor Jeb Bush, Dr. Lee currently serves as a member of the Governor’s Faith-based Advisory Board for the state of Florida.\n\nAs a mayoral appointee he also serves on the Mayor’s Faith-based and Community Advisory Board for the city of Jacksonville. Dr. Lee is also the first head of a not-for-profit organization to serve as a Director on the Board of the Jacksonville Regional Chamber of Commerce.\n\nHe also serves on the board of directors for the Jacksonville Interfaith Council, Habitat for Humanity of Jacksonville (HabiJax), and the Jacksonville Urban League. He is also a member of the Compass Rose Society, an organization of the Anglican Communion serving the Archbishop of Canterbury.\nBy appointment of Queen Elizabeth II, Dr. Lee has also been inducted into the Order of St. John of Jerusalem.\nDr. Lee was appointed by President George W. Bush and continues to serve under President Barack Obama as a key member of the inaugural President's Council On Financial Literacy.\n\nHe currently resides in Jacksonville, Florida with his wife, Mirte de Boer Lee, and his two children, Robert V. Lee IV and Rebecca A. Lee.\n\nDr. Lee is responsible for creating several important and unique partnerships to extend the FreshMinistries vision globally.\n\nFreshMinistries' track record of positively affecting poverty-related problems and administering grants led to a 5-year, $10 million USAID grant in 2004 for HIV/AIDS education in South Africa, Mozambique and Namibia. Dr. Lee helped initiate a partnership between FreshMinistries and the Church of the Province of Southern Africa to utilize the Anglican Church's presence and existing infrastructure to administer peer-based HIV/AIDS prevention programs. Siyafundisa had a 2009 annual target reach of 32,340 youth.\n\nIn 2009, The Anglican Communion approached Dr. Lee about bringing worldwide the 6-Point Community Initiative, a holistic approach to community improvement that has been successful in Jacksonville, FL. Dr. Lee began talks with Hellen Wangusa, Anglican Observer at the United Nations; and Olara Otunnu, president of the LBL Foundation for Children, winner of the German Africa Prize in 2002 and the Sydney Peace Prize in 2005, and 2011 Uganda presidential candidate, about creating a Global Action Partnership (GAP) that would address all of the United Nation’s Millennium Development Goals at once, the first program of its kind. In November 2009, GAP was signed into existence in New York City.\nThe creation of GAP was given a boost within the Anglican community by receiving the approval and support of the Archbishop of Canterbury, The Most Reverend Dr. Rowan Williams, at a dinner during the Episcopal Church's General Convention in 2009.\n\nIn the wake of Haiti's devastating earthquake in 2010, FreshMinistries/Be The Change International (BTCI) was asked by the US Department of Health and Human Services to coordinate a major aid and relief operation there. When Dr. Lee visited Haiti soon after, he saw that Haiti wasn't in need of just immediate aid, but also long-term, holistic improvement to positively effect every aspect of Haitian society. Soon, the concept for \"Tomorrow's Haiti\" was on paper and partners began to sign up.\n\n“Tomorrow’s Haiti” will create initiatives in Haiti that will simultaneously address education, economic development, health, safety, safe shelter and clean water, and family foundations. The program will be the first of its kind, addressing all of the UN’s Millennium Development Goals at once, modeled on FreshMinistries’ successful HIV/AIDS education program in South Africa, \"Siyafundisa\", in which it partnered with the Episcopal Diocese in South Africa, as well as FreshMinistries/BTCI’s thriving holistic approach to creating long-term sustainable change in inner-city Jacksonville.\n\nCurrently, the program is using the Episcopal churches and 254 schools within BAEH’s network as community centers from which to distribute relief aid to the Haitian people and introduce the community to the “Tomorrow’s Haiti” empowerment plan.\n\nBy starting with education – including vocational and life skills training for young adults, as well as HIV/AIDS health curriculum introduced into the BAEH schools – “Tomorrow’s Haiti” will empower Haiti’s people to lift themselves up. From there, “Tomorrow’s Haiti” will become a holistic initiative, based on UNICEF’s Child-Friendly City model, which will address the needs stated by word leaders and the Haitian Prime Minister during the United Nations Haiti Donors Conference in 2010.\n\nSo far, BTCI as signed memorandums of understanding with: The Rt. Rev. Jean-Zache Duracin, Bishop of Episcopal Diocese of Haiti; and The Honorable Jacques-Edouard Alexis, former Haitian Prime Minister and National Director of Centre National de Recherche et de Formation (CENAREF).\n\nTo date, BTCI’s emergency relief effort has shipped to the Haitian people many supplies, including three ambulances (one of which was delivered to the Haitian government), emergency aid, food, water, water purification systems, clothing, school supplies, large generators, and 147 large tents to serve as temporary schools and shelter. BTCI plans to ship more than 100 additional large tents to serve as schools and shelter, as well as medical equipment such as surgical beds.\n\nAs the chairman of FreshMinistries, Dr. Lee is responsible for a number of initiatives that have dramatically affected the urban core of Jacksonville in positive ways.\n\nFormer Jacksonville Mayor John Delaney said, \"FreshMinistries is one of the best things going on in Jacksonville. They're living proof of the power of the spirit in our political and economic life.\"\n\nIn 2006, Dr. Lee was named a \"Change Agent\" by the \"Florida Times-Union\" for creating FreshMinistries, \"helping people start businesses, revitalize their neighborhoods and get out of debt.\"\n\nDr. Lee created the concept of a holistic model for community revitalization that simultaneously addresses all areas of needed improvement at once. For Jacksonville’s Eastside, these areas are education, affordable housing, economic development, family strengthening, safety and health.\nThe initiative works in a number of ways, including focusing on partnerships with local, state and national organizations and government agencies. At times, FreshMinistries becomes the lead agency in managing a project. Other times, it is a partner with other agencies working toward similar goals. Notable partners include former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, Jacksonville Mayor John Peyton, Duval County School Superintendent Ed Pratt-Dannals, and Jacksonville Sheriff John Rutherford.\n\nA unique aspect of the initiative is that it works toward developing other programs, initiatives and improvements that will be self-sufficient and community-owned, constantly customizing and updating the needs based on what the community says it needs. According to Dr. Lee:\n\n\"If a community doesn’t want to help itself, you can’t force the help upon them. We know that only when a community champions its own cause and takes ownership of the potential improvements can this be truly successful.\"\n\n\"Small grassroots efforts are more effective in working with individual communities than large-scale efforts because they are able to customize and personalize their approaches and adapt quickly to changing needs.\"\n\nIn late 2009, Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office Officer Stephen Gallagher announced at a community meeting on the Eastside that violent crime in the area was down 34 percent and property crime was down 32 percent from 2008. Gallagher credited the Eastside Neighborhood Association, an initiative of FreshMinistries, as an “extremely important” part of the drop in crime.\n\nAlso responsible for the drop in crime were neighborhood cleanups and several neighborhood anti-crime walks organized by FreshMinistries to include Jacksonville Sheriff John Rutherford, local council persons, area patrol officers and neighborhood leaders.\n\nIn August 2008, Dr. Lee and FreshMinistries Communities Empowering Youth (CEY) director, Michelle Hughes, were awarded for their work in the community by the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office (JSO). This recognition, according to JSO, was for their neighborhood anti-crime walks, CEY’s efforts in assisting the Police Athletic League (PAL), and the rest of FreshMinistries’ initiatives that focus on community improvement and safety.\n\nIn September 2005, the U.S. Treasury awarded the John Sherman Award for Excellence in Financial Education to FreshMinistries for its Individual Development Account (IDA) Partnership and its work in providing financial education to Jacksonville, FL communities.\n\nIn April 2008, Jacksonville, FL was chosen as one of eight cities in the U.S. to participate in a new pilot program to “increase financial education and bank and credit union accounts for Americans currently outside of the financial mainstream.” The pilot was recommended by several members of the President’s Council on Financial Literacy, including Dr. Lee.\n\nJacksonville Mayor John Peyton said, \"We're honored to have Jacksonville chosen to participate in this worthwhile new initiative. Our existing efforts, under the leadership of FreshMinistries, recognized in 2005 by the U.S. Treasury for Excellence in Financial Literacy … will be able to reach more low-to-moderate income families and help them save for the future.\"\n\nThe Jacksonville Hospitality Institute (JHI), a FreshMinistries initiative, is a 9-week free hospitality training program for underemployed and unemployed adults. The program includes hands-on training, life skills training and job placement assistance via partnerships with local hotels. The program is generally considered life-changing for most of its students.\n\nThe Beaver Street Enterprise Center (BSEC), a FreshMinistries initiative, is a full-service core-city small business incubator, the only one of its kind in Florida. In 2008, the incubator’s clients created 366 new jobs in Jacksonville and generated $16.5 million in taxable revenues. Its tenants have won a number of awards for their success. One of its graduates, A. Harold & Associates, grew to 38 employees and $6.2 million in revenues while at BSEC. Florida Governor Charlie Crist visited the incubator in September 2007, calling BSEC “an excellent model for other communities to follow.”\n\nDr. Lee was responsible for spearheading a partnership between FreshMinistries and Florida State College at Jacksonville (FSCJ) to create a tuition-free, accelerated welding training program for Eastside neighborhood adults who are unemployed and underemployed. The program's first cycle has successfully trained 25 adults, with all graduates of the program guaranteed jobs through Atlantic Marine as they become available.\n\nIn 1998, the City of Jacksonville asked FreshMinistries to take over the restoration of an important historical landmark, The Klutho Apartment Building, designed by Henry John Klutho, as part of a city-wide effort to revitalize economic growth in the Springfield neighborhood. The building now houses nonprofits and small businesses that are also working to restore Springfield.\n\nIn 1999, FreshMinistries launched an initiative, called Operation New Hope, to train \"forgotten\" adults (those with troubled backgrounds) in Jacksonville in the construction industry, leading to employment opportunities. Aside from restoring individuals the program also restored neighborhoods and provided low-income housing opportunities for core city residents. Operation New Hope is now no longer affiliated with FreshMinistries, having become its own separate, sustainable entity, and has since expanded its reach and operations in Jacksonville to include the re-entry and training of recently incarcerated individuals.\n\nIn 2000, Dr. Lee delivered a sermon to President George W. Bush during his visit to Jacksonville, FL. In the sermon he charged President Bush and world leaders to establish justice through compassion.\n\n"}
{"id": "40272873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40272873", "title": "Ross Jeffries", "text": "Ross Jeffries\n\nPaul Ross, better known by the pseudonym Ross Jeffries, is an American author, writer and television personality featured on such programs as \"The Dr. Phil Show\", \"The Montel Williams Show\", \"The Jane Whitney Show\" and \"The Daily Show\", and a self-described speed seduction expert.\n\nJeffries was profiled on \"Louis Theroux's Weird Weekends\". Ross Jeffries is also known for Speed Seduction program that helps men in gaining women's attention.\n\nTom Cruise's character in the film \"Magnolia\" was inspired by Jeffries according to the film's writer-director Paul Thomas Anderson. Jeffries is Jewish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3403364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3403364", "title": "Schule Birklehof", "text": "Schule Birklehof\n\nBirklehof School () is a progressive educational boarding school and grammar school with a holistic approach located in Hinterzarten in the High Black Forest in Germany, approximately 25 km from Freiburg. It is a private coeducational secondary school (German: Gymnasium). Currently, the school has approximately 230 students, 170 of whom are boarders who live on campus. The school was established by educator Kurt Hahn in 1932 and from the beginning accepted girls and boys. Under the Nazi regime, Hahn was forced to emigrate to Scotland where he founded Gordonstoun School as well as later Outward Bound, Round Square and the United World Colleges.\n\nThe school is in the postal district of Hinterzarten, although much of the building lies on the territory of neighbouring Breitnau. The building \"Studio 1\" lies on the boundary and is thus used occasionally for joint council meetings between the two municipalities which, accourding to municipal rules, must take place on their own soil..\n\nThe school stands in the tradition of progressive education reform, or \"reform pedagogy\" as it is called in Germany. This movement originated in the 1920s. Among other things, Birklehof prides itself in giving students real responsibility in the running of the school. Student representatives have voting rights on all educational matters in general conferences.\n\nBirklehof was founded in 1932 by German educator Kurt Hahn. The old Birklehof is a grade-listed farmhouse dating back to 1550. In the early 1920s, a villa was built on the Birklehof estate by a German industrialist. The estate was then given to Hahn for his school. Hahn, after being driven from Germany by the Nazis, went on to found Gordonstoun in Scotland in 1934 and Atlantic College in 1962. It is also a sister school to the more famous Schloss Salem, founded by Hahn in 1920. In 1946, it was reopened by its then head, German philosopher Georg Picht.\n\nIn 2009, the newest building project was completed with the inauguration of the rebuilt Neubirkle boarding house. This state-of-art eco building will be home to 19 boarders and two teachers' families. It also boasts a flat for a boarding house assistant.\nIn the academic year 2010—11, the school will launch a new third middle-school stream. In addition to Foreign Languages or Sciences, students of Years 8 to 10 will be able to choose a musical specialisation. This will include aspects of drama, film making, fine arts and music. It follows an integrated, project-based approach.\nFurthermore, the school is in the process of switching to 8 instead of 9 years of grammar school, which will be implemented fully in 2012.\n\nBirklehof school currently has ten boarding houses. Reflecting its educational philosophy, all houses (with the exception of the Neuer Hirschen West and Neuer Hirschen Ost) have integrated teaching rooms and teachers' flats as well as students' bedrooms. With the exception of the coeducational Unterhaus (Years 5-7) they are all single-sex houses, supervised by a resident houseparent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41628387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41628387", "title": "Sikkim Manipal University, Ghana Learning Centre, Accra", "text": "Sikkim Manipal University, Ghana Learning Centre, Accra\n\nSMU Ghana was established in 2007 by KnowledgeWorkz Ltd - Ghana as Ghana's maiden Authorized Study centre of Sikkim Manipal University, India. It is Located at the Academic City, Ring Road Central opposite Provident Towers in Accra.\n\nSMU Ghana Learning Centre offers bachelor's and master's degrees programs in the following departments:\n\nThe Centre has an alumni base of more than 1000 students from Ghana, Nigeria, Liberia and other West African countries. Including French & English speaking nationals.\n\n"}
{"id": "10351396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10351396", "title": "Socratic questioning", "text": "Socratic questioning\n\nSocratic questioning (or Socratic maieutics) was named after Socrates, who was a philosopher in c. 470 BCE–c. 399 BCE. Socrates utilized an educational method that focused on discovering answers by asking questions from his students. Socrates believed that \"the disciplined practice of thoughtful questioning enables the scholar/student to examine ideas and be able to determine the validity of those ideas\" . Plato, a student of Socrates, described this rigorous method of teaching to explain that the teacher assumes an ignorant mindset in order to compel the student to assume the highest level of knowledge . Thus, a student has the ability to acknowledge contradictions, recreate inaccurate or unfinished ideas and critically determine necessary thought. \n\nSocratic questioning is a form of disciplined questioning that can be used to pursue thought in many directions and for many purposes, including: to explore complex ideas, to get to the truth of things, to open up issues and problems, to uncover assumptions, to analyze concepts, to distinguish what we know from what we do not know, to follow out logical consequences of thought or to control discussions. Socratic questioning is based on the foundation that thinking has structured logic, and allows underlying thoughts to be questioned. The key to distinguishing Socratic questioning from questioning \"per se\" is that Socratic questioning is systematic, disciplined, deep and usually focuses on fundamental concepts, principles, theories, issues or problems.\n\nSocratic questioning is referred to in teaching, and has gained currency as a concept in education, particularly in the past two decades. Teachers, students, or anyone interested in probing thinking at a deep level can construct Socratic questions and engage in these questions. Socratic questioning and its variants have also been extensively used in psychotherapy.\n\nWhen teachers use Socratic questioning in teaching, their purpose may be to probe student thinking, to determine the extent of student knowledge on a given topic, issue or subject, to model Socratic questioning for students or to help students analyze a concept or line of reasoning. It is suggested that students should learn the discipline of Socratic questioning so that they begin to use it in reasoning through complex issues, in understanding and assessing the thinking of others and in following-out the implications of what they and others think. In fact, Socrates himself thought that questioning was the only defensible form of teaching.\n\nIn teaching, teachers can use Socratic questioning for at least two purposes:\n\nSocratic questioning illuminates the importance of questioning in learning. This includes differentiating between systematic and fragmented thinking, while forcing individuals to understand the root of their knowledge and ideas. Educators who support the use of Socratic Questioning in educational settings argue that it helps students become active and independent learners. Examples of Socratic questions that are used for students in educational settings: \n\nThe art of Socratic questioning is intimately connected with critical thinking because the art of questioning is important to excellence of thought. Socrates argued for the necessity of probing individual knowledge, and acknowledging what one may not know or understand. Critical thinking has the goal of reflective thinking that focuses on what should be believed or done about a topic. Socratic questioning adds another level of thought to critical thinking, by focusing on extracting depth, interest and assessing the truth or plausibility of thought. Socrates argued that a lack of knowledge is not bad, but students must strive to make known what they don't know through the means of a form of critical thinking.\n\nCritical thinking and Socratic questioning both seek meaning and truth. Critical thinking provides the rational tools to monitor, assess, and perhaps reconstitute or re-direct our thinking and action. This is what educational reformer John Dewey described as \"reflective inquiry\": \"in which the thinker turns a subject over in the mind, giving it serious and consecutive consideration.\" Socratic questioning is an explicit focus on framing self-directed, disciplined questions to achieve that goal.\n\nThe technique of questioning or leading discussion is spontaneous, exploratory, and issue-specific. The Socratic educator listens to the viewpoints of the student and considers the alternative points of view. It is necessary to teach students to sift through all the information, form a connection to prior knowledge, and transform the data to new knowledge in a thoughtful way.\n\nIt has been proposed in different studies that the \"level of thinking that occurs is influenced by the level of questions asked\". Thus, utilizing the knowledge that students don't know stimulates their ability to ask more complex questions. This requires educators to create active learning environments that promote and value the role of critical thinking, mobilizing their ability to form complex thoughts and questions.\n\nSocratic questioning has also been used in psychotherapy, most notably as a cognitive restructuring technique in classical Adlerian psychotherapy, logotherapy, rational emotive behavior therapy, cognitive therapy, and logic-based therapy. The purpose is to help uncover the assumptions and evidence that underpin people's thoughts in respect of problems. A set of Socratic questions in cognitive therapy aim to deal with automatic thoughts that distress the patient:\n\nCareful use of Socratic questioning enables a therapist to challenge recurring or isolated instances of a person's illogical thinking while maintaining an open position that respects the internal logic to even the most seemingly illogical thoughts.\n\n"}
{"id": "8836366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8836366", "title": "Susan J. Kelley", "text": "Susan J. Kelley\n\nSusan J. Kelley is the former Dean of the College of Health and Human Sciences at Georgia State University. She is also currently a Professor of Nursing and the Director of the National Center on Grandparents Raising Grandchildren, and founder and director of Project Healthy Grandparents, at Georgia State University.\n\nKelley received her Bachelor of Science in Nursing from Boston University, 1977, followed by a Master of Science in Nursing in 1982. She was awarded a Ph.D. in developmental psychology from Boston College in 1988.\n\nPrior to her current positions, Kelley had previously served as Chairperson and Professor, Department of Maternal-Child Health Nursing at Boston College. She was also the Director of Nursing education at Massachusetts Emergency Medical Services and a pediatric nurse at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, and Boston City Hospital. She has also served as a guest lecturer at George Mason University.\n\nIn 2000, Kelley served on the Task Force for International Child Health Nursing Alliance. She is a reviewer for the academic journal \"Nursing Research\", as part of their peer review process.\n\nKelley has specialized in the field of child abuse, since 1979 and has appeared as a featured expert on child abuse on national programs including the Today Show, NBC Evening News and CBS Morning News.\n\nAs a pediatric nurse in the 1980s, Kelley interviewed many of the children involved in the Fells Acres Day Care Center sexual abuse case in Malden, Massachusetts. Kelley’s interview techniques in that case later came under criticism and were called “improper” and “biased” by a Massachusetts appellate judge after video tapes of her questioning of the children were played in court during the appeal of one of the defendants.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32478855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32478855", "title": "The Colleges of William &amp; Mary", "text": "The Colleges of William &amp; Mary\n\nThe Colleges of William & Mary was the name of a short-lived educational system in Virginia. It included The College of William & Mary, the Richmond Professional Institute, the Norfolk Division of the College of William & Mary, Christopher Newport College, and Richard Bland College.\n\nIn 1960, The College of William & Mary (\"The College\") had two branch campuses, the Richmond Professional Institute (RPI), which it had operated since 1925, and the Norfolk Division of the College of William & Mary, which it had operated since 1930.\n\nThe General Assembly of Virginia passed H.B. 466 creating The Colleges of William & Mary (\"The Colleges\") on March 3, 1960, and it took effect immediately. The president of The College, Alvin Duke Chandler, was chosen to be the administrative chancellor of the new system, with Davis Young Paschall replacing him as president.\n\nAs chancellor, however, Chandler attempted to manage the day-to-day operations of all five branches of The Colleges and, by doing so, began to alienate the presidents who served under him. The presidents of The College, RPI, and the Norfolk Division were originally to have more autonomy under the new system than they had had in the past. However, Chandler did not allow that to happen. For example, Chandler required Lewis Webb, president of the Norfolk Division, to seek his approval in matters of hiring faculty and staff, granting leaves of absence, reviewing scholarly publications, and budget requests. Chandler also referred to the five college system as his \"empire,\" reflecting his idea of his role at the top. He also maintained an office on the campus of The College, saying that he could not see how \"the college chancellor possibly could conduct business away from the campus.\"\n\nIn addition, the Norfolk Division was granted accreditation in its own right from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools as a four-year college in December 1961 and was renamed the Norfolk College of the Colleges of William & Mary. RPI had been accredited in its own right since 1953. As four-year schools with their own accreditation, the presidents of each began to resent the level of influence Chandler had in their day-to-day affairs and began to look for ways to change it.\n\nThe General Assembly decided to split the system into three parts, with The College, RPI, and the Norfolk College each having their own Boards of Visitors and with Richard Bland College and Christopher Newport College remaining under the control of the Board of Visitors of The College of William & Mary. The bill for the dissolution of the system was introduced by Delegate Russell Carneal of Williamburg at the urging of some of the members of the Board of Visitors. However, other members of the Board of Visitors were opposed; there had been a vote of the Board against the dissolution of the system in December 1961. The dissolution became official with the passage of H.B. 156, signed into law by Governor Albertis Harrison on February 16, 1962. It specified that the system would be abolished as of July 1, 1962.\n\nUpon its independence, the Norfolk College became Old Dominion College, now known as Old Dominion University. RPI remained an independent state school until 1968, when it merged with the Medical College of Virginia to form Virginia Commonwealth University. Christopher Newport College remained an extension of The College until becoming independent in 1977, and became Christopher Newport University in 1992. Richard Bland College remains a junior college affiliated with The College.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the system, Alvin Duke Chandler served as the coordinator for Christopher Newport College and Richard Bland College; however, he resigned this position after only four months. He then became chancellor of the College of William & Mary, an honorary position that dates back to the founding of the College.\n"}
{"id": "9774874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9774874", "title": "Topo (robot)", "text": "Topo (robot)\n\nTopo is a robot designed in the 1980s by Androbot Inc., for the consumer and education markets. It was programmable via Apple II and there was also a user made program for the Windows 9x operating systems. The programming language allows the robot to perform a set of geometric movements, to move about a room and perform tasks. It was like a servant robot, although it did not truly meet the requirements of a robot, as it had no sensors to use to receive input and then make decisions accordingly.\n\nThe robots were sold commercially starting in early 1983, and were intended to be inexpensive, lacking a complicated manipulating device. Units were beige molded plastic with two drive wheels as \"feet\" and stood about 36 inches tall. Arms on Topo 1 and 2 would fold out, but Topo 3 lacked arms altogether. Operation was based on one of two programming languages, either Apple BASIC, a modified version of the Logo language, or a version of Forth.\n\nCommunication was via a radio or infrared transmitter attached to a personal computer. Topo 2 and 3 used an infrared transmitter, and could be controlled by a four way pad on the top of their head that also served as the infrared receiver.\n\nIn its final versions, Topo abilities included a text-to-speech processor, so that users could program their robots to wander around the house and \"speak\" to humans. However, a fourth model was made but it never went into production (a Topo IV sheet was mailed during the final days of Androbot). It was more like the B.O.B. (Brains On Board, an unreleased robot that was produced after the Topo series) robot than a Topo.\n\n"}
{"id": "17011649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17011649", "title": "Tuppy Owens", "text": "Tuppy Owens\n\nRosalind Mary Owens (born 12 November 1944), known as Tuppy Owens, is an English sex therapist, consultant, campaigner, writer and former adult model.\n\nTuppy Owens was born in Cambridge. She gained a degree in zoology from Exeter University, and then worked in ecology in Africa and Trinidad. She settled in London, and worked as a scientific administrator at the Natural Environment Research Council. Then, in the late 1960s, she established a sex education book publishing company, for which she wrote and published \"The Sex Maniac’s Diary\" successfully between 1972 and 1995, and which she operated as a thriving business from her Mayfair flat — for example, the 1975 \"Sex Maniac's Diary\" was launched in August 1974 with a reception at the Bristol Hotel in London which was reported on the following day in the Financial Times.\n\nFrom 1974, Tuppy Owens also began lecturing on the subject of sex. In 1975, she appeared in the Dutch pornographic film \"Sensations\". From 1984, the \"Sex Maniac's Diary\" was published as \"The Safer Sex Maniac's Diary\" and provided the first visual instructions to the public on how to put a condom on securely; it also reviewed condoms and offered safer sex advice, all at the beginning of the outbreak of HIV.\n\nIn 1979, Owens started the Outsiders Club for socially and physically disabled people to find partners. She was helped by Nigel Verbeek, who had recently lost his sight. Both worked voluntarily, which Tuppy continues to do today. Outsiders is a warm and friendly club providing peer support to members, a beautiful online Clubhouse, and lovely monthly lunches around the country.\n\nIn order to ensure that she answered the members' questions with accuracy, Owens trained as a sex therapist at St George's Hospital Medical School in London, where she gained a diploma in Human Sexuality in 1986. She was also subsequently awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the Institute of Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco. In 2009, Owens was named one of the Family Planning Association‘s 80 most influential achievers in the field of family planning.\n\nFor disabled men and women who want to learn what pleasures their bodies are capable of enjoying, and how to please a partner, Owens set up the TLC Trust website, where they can find responsible, safe sexual services.\n\nIn 1981, Owens appeared in the English pornographic film \"Lady Victoria's Training\", which was produced by Mike Freeman/Videx and featured Simon Linsday Honey, who went on to work as a porn producer and actor in 1990's under the pseudonym Ben Dover.\n\nIn the 1990s, after more than 30 years living in London, Tuppy Owens moved away from that city. Since then, she has lived in a croft in the north of Scotland.\n\nIn 2005, Tuppy Owens founded the Sexual Health and Disability Alliance (SHADA) to bring together health professionals interested in sex and disability. In November 2009, a conference with the title \"Disability: Sex, Relationships and Pleasure\" was held by SHADA with the Royal Society of Medicine. Tuppy produced the Sexual Respect Tool Kit, and started the sexual advocacy service, ASAP. Tuppy also answers the Sex and Disability Helpline. Her book \"Supporting Disabled People with their Sexual Lives\" was published by Jessica Kingsley on 19 November 2014.\n\nTuppy Owens remains active in running Outsiders. At the same time, she also advises the promoter of the Sexual Freedom Ball to fund Outsiders, and the organisers of the fundraiser, The Erotic Awards, now called The Sexual Services and Entertainment Awards. \n\nOwens is now the chair of the Sexual Freedom Coalition. Back in the 90s Owens worked campaigning with Prostitution Pride, parades through London, which were funded by Arcadia events in North London.\n\nOwens has been working with the Bath Institute of Medical Engineering in the hope that they will be able to create sex toys that can be used by disabled people who, without them, cannot masturbate.\n\nOwens will be the editor of a forthcoming website, The School of Sex for Disabled People, which is being created by sexually experienced disabled people and those who provide them with sexual services. She is currently writing her autobiography.\n\nOwens has won the 2015 Lifetime Achievement Award from the European Lifestyles Awards. She is also a Winner of the Innovation Award of Sexual Health and Human Rights UNESCO 2015.\nShe was a finalist (Lifetime Achievement) in the Directory of Social Change Awards 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13378308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13378308", "title": "Universidad Católica de Santo Tomás de Villanueva", "text": "Universidad Católica de Santo Tomás de Villanueva\n\nUniversidad Católica de Santo Tomás de Villanueva (\"St. Thomas of Villanova Catholic University\") was a private Roman Catholic university founded on August 15, 1946, in Havana, Cuba. It was founded by American Augustinians with assistance from European Augustinians and named after Saint Thomas of Villanova. In 1957, it was declared a pontifical university. In 1961, the Augustinians were expelled from Cuba and the university was confiscated by the Cuban government.\n\nFormer members of its faculty later helped found Biscayne College, now St. Thomas University, in Miami Gardens, Florida.\n\nIn 2007, a group of Catholic university students presented a petition to the Cuban government asking for the Universidad Católica de Santo Tomás de Villanueva to reopen.\n\nBoza Masvidal - tribunal prosecuter, intellectual revolutionary\n\n"}
{"id": "54316155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54316155", "title": "Whiteplains British School", "text": "Whiteplains British School\n\nWhiteplains British School (WBS) is a (day and boarding) international co-education located in Jabi, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), FCT-Abuja, Nigeria.\n\nWBS was founded by a group of private individuals. It was incorporated as Whiteplains British School Ltd under the Companies and Allied Matters Act 1990 on 2 May 2007. \"People Monthly\" magazine reports that Whiteplains British School 'was born from a desire by few Nigerians in Diaspora to offer an excellent school whose program is designed to provide Nigerians and other nationals living in Nigeria with a certificate that is recognised throughout the world.'\n\nWBS has two campuses. While the first campus is a primary school and administrative block located at Plot 528 Cadastral Zone B4, Jabi, the second campus, which harbours the secondary school and the advanced studies department, is seated on a land mass of 4.5 hectares in Daki Bui, Jabi, Abuja. Whiteplains British School has a close affiliation with a number of partner foreign universities.\n\nWhiteplains prepares students for pre-school, primary school, secondary school, Advanced and University Foundation Studies. It also offers Cambridge-accredited one–year A’ Level, Cambridge Traditional two–years’ A’ Level and University Degree Foundation courses. The school is listed as one of Nigeria’s centres of Edexcel Academic Qualification. As a provisional member of the Council of British International Schools and the New England Association of Schools and Colleges, WBS runs both Nigerian and British curricula. Whiteplains uses the student-centred teaching method. Its academic calendar operates on three terms beginning in early September and ending in mid-July.\n\nThe school's facilities include separate air-conditioned hostels for male and female boarding students, sports facilities, libraries, ICT facilities, an auditorium, swimming pool,language and science laboratories, etc.\n\nAs part of its curricular activities, WBS offers opportunities in music, dance and theatre, art production and exhibition and science fair, taekwondo/karate, swimming, Press Club, Debating Club, Environmental Club, and Entrepreneurial Club, Art Club, Dance Club and Music Club. Annually, it also observes the International Women’s Day, Nigeria’s Children’s Day (May 27), and Independence Day (1 October). The school celebrated its 7th Graduation Ceremony in 2015.\n\nOn 11 March 2017, four students of WBS displayed their discovered Surveillance Drone, Online Store, Online Crossword Puzzle, and a social networking site. The school was enlisted as one of the three venues in the 2017 Toyota Nigeria Dream Car Art Contest.\n\nFor admission WBS charges a non-refundable application fee, non-refundable Capital Development Levy, tuition and boarding fees, school uniform fee, medical screening with medical insurance fee, and has an entrance examination.\n\nThe school was selected as the Best Secondary School of the Year 2012 by the Institute of Government Research and Development.\n"}
{"id": "22026126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22026126", "title": "WiRED International", "text": "WiRED International\n\nWiRED International is a 501(c)(3)non-profit, volunteer-driven organization that has been delivering medical and health information to war-affected and underserved regions since 1997. WiRED International’s goal is to address the severe global inequality of health knowledge.\n\nWiRED International provides health information to underdeveloped areas by delivering programs, equipment and coordinated health education. Over the years, the organization has opened facilities in 15 countries, while NGOs, medical schools and hospitals in many additional countries have adopted its programs for community health education. The organization serves remote regions and, when appropriate, supplies laptops, projectors, solar equipment and complete health education libraries.\n\nAll WiRED International’s resources online and on portable media are cost-free to users.\n\nWiRED International’s educational programs are technology-based. Starting in the 1990s, the organization stored programs on floppy disks and CD-ROMS and today relies on the Internet and flash drives. With this technology, people can put hundreds of training programs in their pockets, to take beyond the grid. These programs can be run on portable laptops and projectors for group presentations.\n\nIn 2009, the University of California, Berkeley, School of Public Health awarded WiRED International its Organizational Public Health Hero Award. WiRED earned the award “for its achievements in using information technology to provide up-to-date health education and medical information in developing, post-conflict, and isolated regions of the world.”\n\nSan Francisco State University professor, Gary Selnow, Ph.D., founded WiRED International in 1997 while on a Fulbright Fellowship as a visiting professor at the University of Zagreb in Croatia right after the Yugoslav War. Selnow said, “UNICEF had donated computers to a high school in Vukovar, Croatia, but they were sitting in boxes. We connected them to the Internet.”\n\nWithin two years, after formally registering as an NGO, WiRED International had established technology-based programs in six of the former Yugoslav countries. The U.S. Department of State engaged WiRED International’s services in Bosnia and then in Kosovo, where the organization’s volunteers set up community-access Internet centers to help people find family members who fled during the conflict with Serbia. Dr. Selnow noted that physicians made up “the largest group visiting the centers in Kosovo.”\n\nAs a small and flexible organization, WiRED International can respond quickly to community needs. While most of its work deals with health education, occasionally the organization comes across circumstances that merit special attention. One example took place in Kosovo in 1999, where a number of children had been unable to receive adequate treatment for life-threatening illnesses because of a war-damaged health care system.\n\nSelnow was traveling by van from Prishtina (Priština), Kosovo, to Skopje, Macedonia, which, at the time, had the nearest operational airport. In the van was a five-year-old boy and a nurse. The nurse explained that Medecins Sans Frontieres was funding the boy’s travel to France for heart surgery, but that budgets couldn’t pay for his parents to go along. “Will you go with him?” Selnow asked. “No, I’ll drop him off and someone from the hospital will meet him at de Gaulle Airport.”\n\n“So, this boy will undergo open-heart surgery without anyone to hold his hand and tell him in his Albanian language that he’ll be fine?” The nurse said, “That’s how it is, I’m sorry.”\n\nSoon afterwards, WiRED International set up a program it called “Video Visit,” where a computer in Prishtina (Priština), where the parents remained, and a computer in the host country, where the children were being treated, could connect via the Internet. The connections allowed the parents and the children to speak on a regular basis and stay in touch during the children’s often extended treatments. WiRED International’s Video Visit wasn’t set up in time for the boy in the van, but it operated for many other children set off in the months that followed.\n\nWiRED International’s mission became focused on medical and health education as a result of the clear needs evident in Kosovo. A year later, with a National Institutes of Health developmental grant, WiRED began HIV/AIDS education programs across Kenya and then in Sierra Leone. The work expanded to all medical and health concerns, and today through partnerships, WiRED programs are in several African countries and in parts of China, Central and South America, the Middle East, Melanesia and Eurasia.\nIn spring 2003 the State Department asked Selnow to travel to Baghdad with a representative of its U.S. Global Technology Corps to explore how WiRED could most effectively deliver medical training programs to Iraqi doctors. In June 2003, after reviewing field conditions and talking with U.S officials, Iraqi physicians and medical educators, WiRED launched the first technology-based medical training program in the country, starting with the opening of a facility in Iraq’s Medical City Center. Within 18 months the organization had set up 39 centers around Iraq. Several years later WiRED launched the country’s first telemedicine program. Technical problems with satellite availability in the war zone made that program difficult, and it never fully matured. WiRED’s work in Iraq ended in 2010, as the U.S. commitment was winding down.\nIn 2011, as WiRED’s ground programs expanded elsewhere, it began development of its own educational training materials. The program evolved, in 2013, into the Center for the Development and Distribution of Health Education Programs. This resource supplies medical and health education modules via the Internet and portable storage media. It allows partners or any interested NGO to store training modules on thumb drives and laptops and sync them to acquire updates. The result has been a broad distribution of health education programs, even in the most remote areas.\nIn 2014, WiRED has evolved into a health education hub operating in remote and resource-starved regions globally. WiRED collects intellectual content from physicians, nurses and medical educators from around the world. WiRED packages and translates it, when appropriate, and distributes it widely. This clearinghouse model has enabled many medical professionals to contribute to the program, and it has provided a source of health content for people in places isolated and often ignored.\n\nIn 2011, WiRED International launched a virtual Center which draws intellectual content and resources from regions of abundance, processes it for new audiences and distributes that information to regions of scarcity. This project is funded in large part by Medtronic Philanthropy.\n\nThe WiRED International e-library of more than 300 medical and health education modules enables physicians and nurses, patients, health workers and communities to address the prevention and treatment of both infectious and non-communicable disease in developing areas of the world. The more than 300 topics as diverse as maternal health and hand washing, rheumatic heart disease and Ebola, clean water strategies and home caregiver training.\n\nIn 2014 WiRED International expanded the global reach of its programs by creating a “Filling Station.” This is a tool that provides file synchronization (or syncing), whereby a person’s computer can upload data from a master file in an automatic process that adds new or changed material. Thus, the Filling Station allows instant updating of the entire community health education (CHE) e-library from any Internet access point in the world.\n\nWith these interactive training programs, communities and medical professionals alike can educate themselves through the material released on this website and also distributed on portable media for communities off the grid.\n\nThese training modules are developed by WiRED International’s team of physicians, medical editors, imagers and technicians along with a host of other medical experts. The team continually updates the existing material and creates new modules to provide a rich source of health information.\n\nWhen a community health crisis occurs, WiRED International speeds the creation of a rapid response module and translates it into appropriate languages. Examples include: \n\n"}
{"id": "32075903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32075903", "title": "Writing Excuses", "text": "Writing Excuses\n\nWriting Excuses is a podcast hosted by authors Dan Wells, Brandon Sanderson, Mary Robinette Kowal and web cartoonist Howard Tayler.\n\nPromoted as \"fifteen minutes long, because you're in a hurry, and we're not that smart\", the four hosts and guests discuss different topics involved in the creation and production of genre writing and webcomics. As of 2017, authors Wesley Chu, Piper J. Drake and Mary Anne Mohanraj were added as secondary hosts, each having 1 show a month alongside different configurations of the primary hosts.\n\nWriting Excuses began in 2008 with three hosts – Sanderson, Tayler, and Wells – accompanied by Brandon's brother, Jordan Sanderson, who serves as producer. The show aims to cover a single writing-related topic in each podcast, in a format short enough to be listened to on a morning commute or during a lunch break. Adherence to a fifteen minute limit is not absolute, and \"Writing Excuses\" frequently runs to about 20 minutes.\n\nThe single topic is discussed in a back-and-forth by the hosts for roughly fifteen minutes. Given the authors' backgrounds in fantasy and science fiction there is a strong emphasis in those genres, but \"Writing Excuses\" covers a wide variety of topics intended to apply to fiction and creative arts generally. Halfway through the podcast the hosts introduce a book of the week, either a favorite of the hosts or one of their own works. Writing Excuses has been sponsored by Audible since October 2009. On numerous occasions, often at conventions, the hosts invite guest authors and industry professionals on board for podcast episodes.\n\nAfter making a number of guest appearances, Mary Robinette Kowal joined the permanent cast as a new host at the beginning of season 6.\n\nWesley Chu, Piper J. Drake, and Mary Anne Mohanraj were added as secondary hosts at the beginning of series 12\n\n\"Shadows Beneath\", an anthology of four stories written by the members of \"Writing Excuses\", was published in 2014. The anthology's bonus material is intended to show some of the processes of story creation. The stories were brainstormed on the podcast and the first drafts later critiqued; transcripts of the podcasts, along with the first drafts of the stories, are included. The stories are:\n\n\n\n"}
