{"id": "16859155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16859155", "title": "1st Nepalese Constituent Assembly", "text": "1st Nepalese Constituent Assembly\n\nThe 1st Nepalese Constituent Assembly was a unicameral body of 601 members that served from May 28, 2008 to May 28, 2012. It was formed as a result of the first Constituent Assembly election held on April 10, 2008. The Constituent Assembly was tasked with writing a new constitution, and acting as the interim legislature for a term of two years. 240 members were elected in single seat constituencies, 335 were elected through proportional representation, and the remaining 26 seats were reserved for nominated members.\n\nThe Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) (CPN (M)) was the largest party in the Constituent Assembly, having won half of the constituency seats and about 30% of proportional representation seats. The Constituent Assembly declared a republic at its first meeting on May 28, 2008, abolishing the monarchy.\n\nIn late June 2008, the parties agreed to divide the 26 nominated seats in the Constituent Assembly between nine parties: the CPN (M) was to receive nine of these seats, while the Nepali Congress (NC) and the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) (CPN (UML)) (which respectively placed second and third in the election) would each receive five, the Madhesi Janadhikar Forum would receive two, and the Sadbhavana Party, the Nepal Workers and Peasants Party, Janamorcha Nepal, and the Communist Party of Nepal (Marxist-Leninist) would each receive one nominated seat. Due to its failure in drafting a new constitution, the CA was dissolved on May 28, 2012 after its original and extended total tenure of 4 years. The next Nepalese Constituent Assembly elections initially slated for November 22, 2012 were held a year later on November 19, 2013 after being postponed several times.\n\nThe official and final list of members elected under the PR system was released on 8 May 2008; this meant the first meeting of the CA (which has to be held within 21 days of the publication of the final result) would be held before the end of May 2008. On 12 May 2008, it was announced that the first session of the CA would be held on 28 May 2008. The members of the CA were sworn in on 27 May 2008.\n\nThe composition of CA looked like this:\n\nAt the first session of the Constituent Assembly on 28 May, it voted to declare Nepal a federal democratic republic, thereby abolishing the monarchy. 564 members of the Constituent Assembly voted on this motion, with 560 in favor and four opposed. Of all the parties represented in the Constituent Assembly, only the Rastriya Prajatantra Party Nepal (RPP-Nepal) opposed the motion. Koirala said that Nepal was entering a new era and that \"the nation's dream has come true\", while celebrations took place in Kathmandu; May 29 and May 30 were declared to be public holidays by the government. The Constituent Assembly also decided that Gyanendra should leave the Narayanhity Palace within 15 days.\n\nEarlier on 28 May, the major parties agreed on the creation of the position of President, while the Prime Minister was to hold executive powers; however, they reached no agreement on exactly what powers the President should have or who should become President, and these deliberations led to a delay in the opening of the Constituent Assembly.\n\nOn 29 May, the royal standard was removed from Narayanhity Palace and replaced with the national flag. Gyanendra reportedly said on 2 June that he accepted the Constituent Assembly's decision.\n\n13 parties, including the CPN (M), the NC, and the CPN (UML), met at the Ministry of Peace and Reconstruction on June 1; no agreement was reached regarding power arrangements. The CPN (M) pressed its demand for both the positions of President and Prime Minister, but the NC and CPN (UML) were unwilling to accept this. The NC wanted these positions to be chosen through a simple majority vote in the Constituent Assembly.\n\nAddressing a rally in Gorkha district on June 1, Prachanda gave Koirala an ultimatum to present his resignation to the Constituent Assembly within two or three days, warning that if he failed to do so, the Maoist members of the government would resign and the party would lead street protests.\n\nAfter Gyanendra requested that the government make arrangements for his residence on June 1, the government decided on June 4 to give another palace, the Nagarjuna Palace, to Gyanendra. Also on June 4, Prachanda and Koirala met; at this meeting Prachanda demanded that the government step aside by June 5 and again threatened street protests. On the same day, the three main parties held a meeting at which they again failed to reach an agreement, but the parties agreed on the need for a few more days and the CPN (M) postponed its deadline for the government to step aside to allow for this period.\n\nOn June 5, the CPN (M) softened its position, deciding at a meeting of its Central Secretariat that it would not press its claim to the presidency and that it would instead favor having a member of civil society become President. The party expressed continued opposition to a proposal that would allow the Prime Minister to be dismissed by a simple majority vote of the Constituent Assembly. Despite the Maoist desire to have a neutral figure as President, the NC proposed Koirala for the position.\n\nThe Constituent Assembly held its second sitting on June 5; due to the three major parties' deadlock, this sitting was very brief, lasting less than a half hour, and took no major decisions.\n\nOn June 11, Gyanendra gave a brief press conference at Narayanhiti, stating his acceptance of the republic and promising cooperation. He also said that he intended to stay in Nepal, asserted that he held no property outside of Nepal, and expressed his hope that he would be allowed to keep his property. He left Narayanhiti on the same evening and went to his new residence at Nagarjuna.\n\nShortly after another meeting between Prachanda and Koirala, the CPN (M) ministers announced their resignations and sent a joint resignation letter to Prachanda on June 12. According to the CPN (M) Minister for Local Development, Dev Gurung, the purpose of the resignations was to \"accelerate the process of formation of a new government and bring an end to the current transitional period\". However, some considered the resignations to be a means of increasing pressure on Koirala. The resignations were not immediately submitted to Koirala by the CPN (M), and therefore were not made effective. Gurung said that he expected a coalition government to be formed by June 18.\n\nAlso on June 12, CPN (UML) General Secretary Jhala Nath Khanal asserted that a member of his party should become President. On June 14 he blamed the CPN (M) for the deadlock. At a meeting with Communist Party of Nepal (Marxist-Leninist) General Secretary C. P. Mainali on June 14, Koirala stressed the importance of power-sharing according to the popular mandate and consensus. Mainali expressed the view that the Maoists should be allowed to lead the government, while the post of President should go to someone from the Nepali Congress and the post of Chairman of the Constituent Assembly should go to someone from the CPN (UML). Meanwhile, Prachanda rejected the possibility of Koirala becoming President, saying that this would be a \"dishonour to the people's mandate\"; he also expressed concern that having Koirala as President could cause the development of a separate power center from the government, in addition to noting Koirala's advanced age and health problems. Prachanda said that the President should come from a smaller party rather than from the Nepali Congress or the CPN (UML).\n\nKoirala said on June 15 that he would not \"run around pleading\" for the presidency. Prachanda, meanwhile, said that he expected the new government to be formed imminently, calling on other parties to support this and warning that anyone contravening the people's mandate would have a \"heavy price\" to pay. Another meeting of the three main parties on June 16 ended in continued disagreement on the key issues, and the CPN (M) said that it would submit the resignations of its ministers to Koirala if the next meeting on June 17 did not produce an agreement.\n\nCPN (UML) General Secretary Khanal said on June 17 that it was important for the left-wing parties to work together. While saying that the CPN (UML) and the CPN (M) would cooperate in the future, he noted that it would be necessary for the parties to improve their difficult relationship. The CPN (M) Central Secretariat met on the same day and approved the decision to hold firm on the key issues and for its ministers to resign if an agreement was not reached later in the day. The party chose to support Ramraja Prasad Singh for the presidency. Upendra Yadav, the Coordinator of the Madhesi Janadhikar Forum, also said on June 17 that his party would not participate in the government and would instead be an opposition party, and he stressed the importance of cooperation among the Madhesi parties. Although he criticized the three main parties for focusing on their power struggle, he endorsed the Maoist claim to lead the government, while asserting that some of the key portfolios should be given to other parties.\n\nThe Constituent Assembly went into indefinite recess on June 18. The three main parties continued their discussions on that day, but did not reach an agreement. However, CPN (M) spokesman Krishna Bahadur Mahara said that they were getting closer to an agreement, and he said that the party had postponed its deadline to June 19.\n\nOn June 19, the three main parties reached an agreement providing for a constitutional amendment that would enable a government to be formed or dismissed by a simple majority vote of the Constituent Assembly, rather than the previously required two-thirds majority vote. An agreement was also concluded on the issue of integrating Maoist fighters into the national army. However, the parties did not yet agree on a way to resolve the question of power-sharing. Later that day, the Seven-Party Alliance held a meeting at which Koirala said that he was prepared to resign at any time.\n\nThe CPN (M) and the CPN (UML) leadership met early on June 20, and afterwards Khanal said that the CPN (M) had \"responded positively\" to the CPN (UML)'s proposal to have someone from the CPN (UML) as President. A leading member of the CPN (UML) said that the two parties had agreed on the candidacy of Madhav Kumar Nepal, the former General Secretary of the CPN (UML). However, a leading member of the CPN (M) disputed this, saying that the two parties were closer to an agreement but that their party had not agreed to support a CPN (UML) candidate; he said that both Nepal and Sahana Pradhan (whose name was proposed by the CPN (M)) had been discussed as candidates.\n\nThe Nepal Federation of Indigenous Nationalities (NFIN) met with Koirala on June 20, seeking a recommendation that indigenous peoples not already represented in the Constituent Assembly be included in it through the 26 nominated seats. Koirala, who was supportive of the NFIN's request, also sharply criticized his rivals on this occasion, saying that they were practicing petty politics and were not respecting the people's mandate to work on a consensus basis. The Maoist ministers submitted their joint resignation at a meeting of the seven parties on June 20.\n\nSher Bahadur Deuba of the Nepali Congress said on June 24 that the CPN (M) was responsible for the deadlock and claimed that it was working to divide the Seven-Party Alliance. He also said that Koirala would resign after the election of a President and that the CPN (M) had no authority to demand his resignation before then. Also on June 24, the seven parties agreed on the introduction of a constitutional amendment providing for the election of a President and the formation of a government through simple majority votes. There was, however, disagreement over the Nepali Congress proposal to include a member of the opposition on the National Security Council; the CPN (M) and the CPN (UML) described this as undemocratic. There was also a proposal to include members of each of the seven parties on the National Security Council. Despite the failure to agree about the opposition's inclusion on the National Security Council, it was agreed to give the opposition a place on the Constitutional Council. The parties also reached agreement on a number of issues related to peace, disarmament and reintegration. A decision was also reached with to divide the 26 nominated seats in the Constituent Assembly among nine parties: the CPN (M) was to receive nine of these seats, while the Nepali Congress and the CPN (UML) would each receive five, the Madhesi Janadhikar Forum would receive two, and the Sadbhavana Party, the Nepal Workers and Peasants Party, Janamorcha Nepal, and the Communist Party of Nepal-Marxist Leninist would each receive one nominated seat.\n\nThe Council of Ministers approved the constitutional amendment late on June 25. At a meeting of the Constituent Assembly on June 26, Koirala announced his resignation, although it will not be finalized until after the election of a President, to whom the resignation must be submitted. Although it was expected that the constitutional amendment would be approved at the same meeting, it was not introduced after Madhesi members of the Constituent Assembly demanded that the amendment be expanded to incorporate a March 2008 agreement between the Madhesis and the government that provided for Madhesi autonomy, among other things. As a result of this, the Constituent Assembly meeting was suspended until June 28. After meeting with Koirala on June 27, Hridayesh Tripathy of the Terai Madhes Loktantrik Party (TMLP) said that Koirala was in favor of incorporating the Madhesi agreement into the amendment and that he asked the Madhesis not to disrupt the Constituent Assembly again.\n\nOn June 28, the seven parties met to discuss the Madhesi demands; although no decision was reached, all of the parties opposed the Madhesi demand for a single province. The Constituent Assembly met later that day and was again disrupted by representatives of the Madhesi parties, forcing the cancellation of the meeting after only a few minutes. The next Constituent Assembly meeting on June 29 was also disrupted by the Madhesis and was cancelled. Jaya Prakash Gupta, a leading figure in the Madhesi Janadhikar Forum (MJF), also warned on June 29 that the Madhesi parties would \"not only obstruct the Constituent Assembly but also paralyse the entire nation to force [the seven parties] to meet our demands.\" Prachanda, in an interview on June 30, expressed frustration with the Madhesi parties' disruption, which occurred just after Koirala's resignation, when it appeared the road to forming a new government was clear. He said that he favored Madhesi autonomy, but opposed their demand for all of Terai to become one Madhesi province. Khanal, the CPN (UML) General Secretary, flatly rejected the demand for a single Madhesi province, condemning it as \"a game to disintegrate the nation\". He said that the demand ignored the wishes of other ethnic groups in the Terai.\n\nThe Constituent Assembly met on June 30 but was again disrupted by the Madhesis and the meeting was cancelled. The three main parties reached an agreement with the three Madhesi parties, the MJF, the TMLP, and the Nepal Sadbhavana Party, on July 1, providing for a supplementary amendment bill that would meet the Madhesi demands. Another meeting of the Constituent Assembly was disrupted by the Madhesis and aborted on July 2, while the CPN (M), Nepali Congress, and CPN (UML) met to decide the draft text of the supplementary amendment bill.\n\nThe CPN (M) and MJF met on July 3, and the CPN (M) agreed to include a reference to Madhesi autonomy in the bill, while also saying that it wanted the bill to mention other indigenous groups' desire for autonomy. 13 small parties in the Constituent Assembly said on July 3 that they were completely opposed to the Madhesi demand for a single autonomous province, and they criticized the larger parties for the political deadlock that prevented discussion of the issues from taking place in the Constituent Assembly.\n\nSessions of the Constituent Assembly were attempted on July 3 and July 4, but both were immediately disrupted by the Madhesi members and were aborted. On the latter occasion, Kul Bahadur Gurung, who chaired the session, urged the Madhesi members to respect the right of other members to be heard, but they ignored him. On July 4, the CPN (M), Nepali Congress, and CPN (UML) agreed on a draft supplementary amendment bill intended to satisfy the Madhesi demands. The draft requires the State Restructuring Commission to consider the March 2008 agreement between the government and the Madhesis when drawing up Nepal's federal structure. A meeting of the Seven Party Alliance followed the three-party agreement, and at this meeting, the People's Front Nepal, United Left Front, and Nepal Workers and Peasants Party objected to the draft, saying that it would endanger national unity. The cabinet approved the bill late on July 4; at the same time, it decided to nominate the 26 remaining members of the Constituent Assembly, dividing the seats between nine parties in accordance with the parties' earlier agreement and the lists of names they presented.\n\nThe Madhesi parties quickly deemed the supplementary amendment bill to be an unacceptable \"betrayal\". Khanal, the CPN (UML) General Secretary, said that the bill should satisfy the Madhesi demands, and he warned that opposition to the bill would not be in Madhesi interests or in the interests of any of the peoples of Terai. He called on the Madhesi members to make proposals and engage in discussion in the Constituent Assembly instead of disrupting it.\n\nOn July 6, at a meeting between the three main parties and the Madhesi parties, the former agreed to formulate a new bill to replace the one agreed upon two days prior, while the latter agreed to stop disrupting the Constituent Assembly. 23 of the 26 nominated members of the Constituent Assembly were sworn in on July 7; the remaining three were unable to attend the swearing in ceremony. On July 8, the Seven Party Alliance, with the exception of the Nepal Workers and Peasants Party, agreed on the content of a new draft bill, according to which federal structures would be created in line with the wishes of the Madhesis and other ethnic groups.\n\nThe Constituent Assembly was able to meet and function on July 9, for the first time since the Madhesis began pressing their demands on June 26. Although they did not disrupt the Constituent Assembly on this occasion, the three Madhesi parties furiously condemned the proposed bill and vowed that their struggle would continue. During the Constituent Assembly meeting, they submitted a protest notice, and when this was rejected, they chose to boycott the Constituent Assembly's proceedings. Narendra Bikram Nemwang, the Minister for Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs, tabled the bill regardless.\n\nKoirala said on July 11 that forming a government was the responsibility of the CPN (M). However, the CPN (M) criticized the Nepali Congress on July 12 for \"obstructing the process [of forming a government] for the past three months\". To protest the amendment bill, the Madhesi parties boycotted the Constituent Assembly meeting held on July 13, at which the amendment bill was considered. The bill was passed on the same day; 442 members of the Constituent Assembly voted for the amendment and seven voted against it. It thus became the interim constitution's Fifth Amendment. The amendment allows for the formation of a government based on a Constituent Assembly majority; it also allows the President, Vice-President, Chairman of the Constituent Assembly, and the Deputy Chairman of the Constituent Assembly to be elected by majority vote if there is no consensus. In addition, the amendment provides for the Leader of the Opposition to become a member of the Constitutional Council; however, the Constituent Assembly rejected a proposal from the cabinet that the Leader of the Opposition be included on the National Defense Council.\n\nIn a meeting with the Nepali Congress on July 14, the CPN (M) urged it to participate in the new government. A Nepali Congress leader replied that the party had still not decided whether to participate.\n\nAn indirect presidential election was held in Nepal on 19 July 2008 with a presidential run-off on 21 July. The Nepalese Constituent Assembly (CA) elected in April 2008 elected a new President and Vice-President after the Fifth Amendment to the Interim Constitution was passed on July 14. This would be the first President to be elected after Nepal became a republic a few months earlier.\n\nIn the newly passed amendment, the majority party will form the government, the CA will elect the new President on the basis of majority and a new provision that the Opposition Leader will be a member of the Constitutional Council. The leading political parties, Nepali Congress, Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) and Communist Party of Nepal (United Marxist-Leninist) engaged in discussions regarding who would be the new President. The Nepali Congress wanted Prime Minister and interim Head of State Girija Prasad Koirala while the Communist Party of Nepal (United Marxist-Leninist) wanted its former Secretary-General Madhav Kumar Nepal as President. However, the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) wants an independent figure as President rather than party figures such as Koirala or Nepal. The Maoists won the most seats in the CA however needs to form a coalition government with the other parties.\n"}
{"id": "53318487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53318487", "title": "2014 NPCSC Decision on Hong Kong", "text": "2014 NPCSC Decision on Hong Kong\n\nThe Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress on Issues Relating to the Selection of the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region by Universal Suffrage and on the Method for Forming the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in the Year 2016 (), commonly known as 31 August Decision (), is a decision made by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPCSC), the national legislative body of the People's Republic of China (PRC) on 31 August 2014 which set limits for the 2017 Chief Executive election and 2016 Legislative Council election in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR). \n\nThe decision states that a Hong Kong Chief Executive candidate has to \"love the country and love Hong Kong\". For the 2017 Chief Executive election, a nominating committee, similar to the present Election Committee system, be formed to nominate two to three candidates, each of whom must receive the support of more than half of the members of the nominating committee. After popular election of one of the nominated candidates, the new Chief Executive \"will have to be appointed by the Central People's Government.\" The process of forming the 2016 Legislative Council would be unchanged, but following the new process for the election of the Chief Executive, a new system to elect the Legislative Council via universal suffrage would be developed with the approval of Beijing. The decision was deemed by the pro-democracy activists as a violation of the principle of free and fair election and led to the large-scale occupation protests which was internationally known as \"Umbrella Revolution\".\n\nIn December 2013, the Hong Kong government launched a public consultative over the electoral method of the 2017 Chief Executive election and 2016 Legislative Council election. According to the Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPCSC) in 2007, the 2017 Chief Executive election \"may be implemented by the method of universal suffrage\". After a period of consultation ran from December 2013 to May 2014, which the issues centred on whether the Chief Executive has to \"love the Country and love Hong Kong\" and the role of a nominating committee as stated in Hong Kong Basic Law Article 45 \"the selection of the Chief Executive by universal suffrage upon nomination by a broadly representative nominating committee in accordance with democratic procedures.\"\n\nAs early in March 2013, Qiao Xiaoyang, chairman of the Law Committee under the NPCSC, stated that Chief Executive candidates must be persons who love the country and love Hong Kong, who do not insist on confronting the central government. Observers stated that Qiao comment was to screen out candidates from the opposition pro-democracy camp.<ref name=\"25/3/13\"></ref> Qiao also mentioned that \"the nominating committee is in fact an organisation. The nomination of Chief Executive candidates by the nominating committee is a form of organisational nomination.\n\nOn 22 November 2013, Li Fei, Qiao's successor as NPCSC Law Committee chairman, stated that \"the Chief Executive is accountable to the central government as well as Hong Kong. This means that the post must be taken up by a person who loves the country as well as Hong Kong – anyone opposed to the central government cannot [take it].\"\n\nAfter the first consultation period ended in May, the Consultation Report was published in July 2014. Following that Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying submitted the \"Report by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress\". The public generally speculated that the NPCSC would set the framework of the electoral reform in the meeting in coming August.\n\nOn 31 August 2014, the Tenth Session of the Standing Committee of the Twelfth National People's Congress adopted the Decision on selecting method of the 2017 Chief Executive and 2016 Legislative Council elections:\n\nThe Decision states that \"the principle that the Chief Executive has to be a person who loves the country and loves Hong Kong must be upheld.\" The selecting method of the Chief Executive has to be framed institutionally to maintain long-term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and uphold the sovereignty, security and development interests of the country.\n\nIt also states that a broadly representative nominating committee shall be formed, in which the number of members, composition and formation method of the nominating committee shall be made in accordance to the existing Election Committee formed in 2012. The nominating committee shall nominate two to three candidates, in which each candidate must have the endorsement of more than half of all the members of the nominating committee before all eligible voters can vote in the election.\n\nThe Chief Executive-elect, after being selected through universal suffrage, will have to be appointed by the Central People's Government.\n\nThe formation method and procedures for voting on bills and motions of the 5th Legislative Council will continue to apply to the 6th Legislative Council in 2016. After the election of the Chief Executive by universal suffrage, the election of all the members of the Legislative Council may be implemented by the method of universal suffrage.\n\nThe Hong Kong government welcomed the NPCSC decision. Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said that \"the majority of Hong Kong citizens, namely, the 5 million qualified voters of the selection of Chief Executive in 2017, will be able to cast their votes to select the chief executive.\" He also said \"this is the first opportunity – a very good opportunity – for Hong Kong to have one man, one vote – universal suffrage. This is something we should all feel proud of.\"\n\nThe Occupy Central with Love and Peace movement who had vowed to launched a massive civil obedience occupation at the city centre of Central, Hong Kong if the constitutional reform proposals did not reach the international standard of free and fair election slammed Beijing's decision as a move that stifles democracy and blocks people with different political views from running for office. \"Genuine universal suffrage includes both the rights to elect and to be elected,\" its statement said. \"The decision of the NPC Standing Committee has deprived people with different political views of the right to run for election and be elected by imposing unreasonable restrictions, thereby perpetuating 'handpicked politics.'\" It said it would go on with their Occupy Central plan in the rally where several thousand people turned out opposing Beijing's plan on 31 August night. Occupy Central co-founder Benny Tai told the crowd, \"our hope is that people gathered here will be dauntless civil resisters. What is our hope? Our hope is that today Hong Kong has entered a new era, an era of civil disobedience, an era of resistance.\"\n\nThe pan-democracy camp saw it as the method to screen out the opposition candidates as the pan-democrat candidates would not get a majority support from the nominating committee if its composition mirrors the existing Election Committee which dominated by pro-Beijing interests. The pan-democrat candidates were able to enter the Chief Executive elections by getting just one-eighth of the nomination threshold from the Election Committee. There were also some interpretations that an organisational nomination would be a breach of the Basic Law. The Democratic Party vowed to \"veto this revolting proposal.\"\n\nThe largest student organisation Hong Kong Federation of Students (HKFS) and student activist group Scholarism urged university and secondary school students to boycott classes opposing the NPCSC decision and also organised public events, including street assemblies. The student movement evolved into the 79-day large-scale occupy movement internationally known as \"Umbrella Revolution\". The retraction of the NPCSC decision became one of the main goals of the protesters. On 28 October, the HKFS issued an open letter to the Chief Secretary Carrie Lam asking for a second round of talks. HKFS set out a prerequisite for the negotiation, that the government's report to the Chinese government must include a call for the retraction of the NPCSC's decision. The government refused the demand, stating that the political reform has to be bounded by the NPCSC decision .\n\nIn an opinion poll carried out by Chinese University of Hong Kong, only 36.1% of 802 people surveyed between 8–15 October accept NPCSC's decision but 55.6% are willing to accept if the HKSAR Government would democratise the nominating committee during the second phase of public consultation period.\n\nOn 7 January 2015, the Hong Kong government launched a two-month public consultation after the delay due to the protests. The pan-democracy camp boycotted the consultation in protest against the NPCSC decision. \n\nOn 31 May 2015, three top Beijing officials, Basic Law Committee chairman Li Fei, Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office director Wang Guangya and Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in Hong Kong director Zhang Xiaoming met with members of the Legislative Council in Shenzhen including pan-democracy legislators. The Beijing officials dashed any hope of last-minute concessions from Beijing with tough stances during the four-hour talk and the post-meeting press conference. Li also stressed that the framework set down on 31 August would govern the election of Hong Kong's leader by universal suffrage in 2017 and onwards. The pan-democrats said they would definitely veto the political reform package as the meeting with mainland officials left them with no choice.\n\nOn 18 June 2015, the Legislative Council rejected the unmodified electoral reform proposal with 8 votes in favour, 28 against, and 33 not voting.\n\nThe pan-democrats have been calling for the NPCSC decision to be shelved, but pro-Beijing politicians had said the decision would be still relevant after 2017. It also became one of the key issues in the 2017 Chief Executive election, in which the pro-democrats pressured the candidates to relaunch the constitutional reform without the 831 basis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20032060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20032060", "title": "AeroLogic", "text": "AeroLogic\n\nAeroLogic is a German cargo airline based in Schkeuditz near Leipzig. It is a joint-venture between DHL Express and Lufthansa Cargo which operates scheduled international and long-haul cargo services out of its hubs Leipzig/Halle Airport and Frankfurt Airport.\n\nThe company was founded by DHL Express and Lufthansa Cargo on 12 September 2007. Flight operations started on 29 June 2009, following the delivery of its first aircraft on 12 May of that year, a Boeing 777 Freighter, making AeroLogic the first German operator of that type.\n\nAeroLogic's operations are broadly divided in two. From Monday to Friday it mainly flies to Asia, serving the DHL Express network. On weekends, it mainly operates to the United States on behalf of Lufthansa Cargo. AeroLogic operates services to the following destinations:\n\nAs of August 2017, the AeroLogic fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "48207503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48207503", "title": "Alabama Civil Rights &amp; Civil Liberties Law Review", "text": "Alabama Civil Rights &amp; Civil Liberties Law Review\n\nThe Alabama Civil Rights & Civil Liberties Law Review is a student-run law review published by the University of Alabama School of Law. The journal is published two times per year and contains articles, essays, and book reviews concerning civil rights and liberties.\n\nThe journal was established in 2008 to track developments in the vital and interconnected areas of civil rights and civil liberties. Reflecting on the history of the institution and its place in the narrative of the civil rights movement, their first issue posed a question: \"Have we overcome?\" This issue featured \"Associational Privacy and the First Amendment: NAACP v. Alabama, Privacy and Data Protection\" by Anita L. Allen; \"Shall We Overcome? 'Post-Racialism' and Inclusion in the 21st Century\" by Sheryll Cashin; \"Justice Clarence Thomas: The Burning of Civil Rights Bridges\" by Judge U.W. Clemon and Stephanie Y. Moore; \"The Students at the University of Alabama in 1845 and the Families that Sent Them\" by Royal Dumas; and \"The Anti-Apartheid Principle in American Property Law\" by Joseph Singer. The inaugural issue featured student-written pieces by Karthik Subramanian and Alexander E. Vaughn—Karthik's on the Alabama anti-sex toys statute and Alexander's on the standards for plain view searches involving computers.\n"}
{"id": "1625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625", "title": "Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn", "text": "Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn\n\nAleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn (; 11 December 1918 – 3 August 2008) was a Russian novelist, historian, and short story writer. He was an outspoken critic of the Soviet Union and communism and helped to raise global awareness of its Gulag forced labor camp system. He was allowed to publish only one work in the Soviet Union, \"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\" (1962), in the periodical \"Novy Mir\". After this he had to publish in the West, most notably \"Cancer Ward\" (1968), \"August 1914\" (1971), and \"The Gulag Archipelago\" (1973). Solzhenitsyn was awarded the 1970 Nobel Prize in Literature \"for the ethical force with which he has pursued the indispensable traditions of Russian literature\". Solzhenitsyn was afraid to go to Stockholm to receive his award for fear that he would not be allowed to reenter. He was eventually expelled from the Soviet Union in 1974, but returned to Russia in 1994 after the state's dissolution.\n\nSolzhenitsyn was born in Kislovodsk, RSFSR (now in Stavropol Krai, Russia). His mother, Taisiya Zakharovna (née Shcherbak), was of Ukrainian descent. Her father had risen from humble beginnings to become a wealthy landowner, acquiring a large estate in the Kuban region in the northern foothills of the Caucasus. During World War I, Taisiya went to Moscow to study. While there she met and married Isaakiy Semyonovich Solzhenitsyn, a young officer in the Imperial Russian Army of Cossack origin and fellow native of the Caucasus region. The family background of his parents is vividly brought to life in the opening chapters of \"August 1914\", and in the later \"Red Wheel\" novels.\n\nIn 1918, Taisiya became pregnant with Aleksandr. On 15 June, shortly after her pregnancy was confirmed, Isaakiy was killed in a hunting accident. Aleksandr was raised by his widowed mother and his aunt in lowly circumstances. His earliest years coincided with the Russian Civil War. By 1930 the family property had been turned into a collective farm. Later, Solzhenitsyn recalled that his mother had fought for survival and that they had to keep his father's background in the old Imperial Army a secret. His educated mother (who never remarried) encouraged his literary and scientific learnings and raised him in the Russian Orthodox faith; she died in 1944.\n\nAs early as 1936, Solzhenitsyn began developing the characters and concepts for a planned epic work on World War I and the Russian Revolution. This eventually led to the novel \"August 1914\"; some of the chapters he wrote then still survive. Solzhenitsyn studied mathematics at Rostov State University. At the same time he took correspondence courses from the Moscow Institute of Philosophy, Literature and History, at this time heavily ideological in scope. As he himself makes clear, he did not question the state ideology or the superiority of the Soviet Union until he spent time in the camps.\n\nDuring the war, Solzhenitsyn served as the commander of a sound-ranging battery in the Red Army, was involved in major action at the front, and was twice decorated. He was awarded the Order of the Red Star on 8 July 1944 for sound-ranging two German artillery batteries and adjusting counterbattery fire onto them, resulting in their destruction.\n\nA series of writings published late in his life, including the early uncompleted novel \"Love the Revolution!\", chronicles his wartime experience and his growing doubts about the moral foundations of the Soviet regime.\n\nWhile serving as an artillery officer in East Prussia, Solzhenitsyn witnessed war crimes against local German civilians by Soviet military personnel. The noncombatants and the elderly were robbed of their meager possessions and women and girls were gang-raped to death. A few years later, in the forced labor camp, he memorized a poem titled \"Prussian Nights\" about these incidents. In this poem, which describes the gang-rape of a Polish woman whom the Red Army soldiers mistakenly thought to be a German, the first-person narrator comments on the events with sarcasm and refers to the responsibility of official Soviet writers like Ilya Ehrenburg.\n\nIn \"The Gulag Archipelago\", Solzhenitsyn wrote, \"There is nothing that so assists the awakening of omniscience within us as insistent thoughts about one's own transgressions, errors, mistakes. After the difficult cycles of such ponderings over many years, whenever I mentioned the heartlessness of our highest-ranking bureaucrats, the cruelty of our executioners, I remember myself in my Captain's shoulder boards and the forward march of my battery through East Prussia, enshrouded in fire, and I say: 'So were \"we\" any better?'\"\n\nIn February 1945, while serving in East Prussia, Solzhenitsyn was arrested by SMERSH for writing derogatory comments in private letters to a friend, Nikolai Vitkevich, about the conduct of the war by Joseph Stalin, whom he called \"Khozyain\" (\"the boss\"), and \"Balabos\" (Yiddish rendering of Hebrew \"baal ha-bayit\" for \"master of the house\"). Also he had talks with the same friend about the need of a new organisation against the Soviet regime.\n\nHe was accused of anti-Soviet propaganda under Article 58 paragraph 10 of the Soviet criminal code, and of \"founding a hostile organization\" under paragraph 11.\nSolzhenitsyn was taken to the Lubyanka prison in Moscow, where he was interrogated. On 9 May 1945, it was announced that Germany had surrendered and all of Moscow broke out in celebrations with fireworks and searchlights illuminating the sky to celebrate the victory in the Great Patriotic War as Russians call the war with Germany. From his cell in the Lubyanka, Solzhenitsyn remembered: \"Above the muzzle of our window, and from all the other cells of the Lubyanka, and from all the windows of the Moscow prisons, we too, former prisoners of war and former front-line soldiers, watched the Moscow heavens, patterned with fireworks and crisscrossed with beams of searchlights. There was no rejoicing in our cells and no hugs and no kisses for us. That victory was not ours\". On 7 July 1945, he was sentenced in his absence by Special Council of the NKVD to an eight-year term in a labour camp. This was the normal sentence for most crimes under Article 58 at the time.\n\nThe first part of Solzhenitsyn's sentence was served in several different work camps; the \"middle phase\", as he later referred to it, was spent in a \"sharashka\" (i.e., a special scientific research facility run by Ministry of State Security), where he met Lev Kopelev, upon whom he based the character of \"Lev Rubin\" in his book \"The First Circle\", published in a self-censored or \"distorted\" version in the West in 1968 (an English translation of the full version was eventually published by Harper Perennial in October 2009).\nIn 1950, he was sent to a \"Special Camp\" for political prisoners. During his imprisonment at the camp in the town of Ekibastuz in Kazakhstan, he worked as a miner, bricklayer, and foundry foreman. His experiences at Ekibastuz formed the basis for the book \"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\". One of his fellow political prisoners, Ion Moraru, remembers that Solzhenitsyn spent some of his time at Ekibastuz writing.\nWhile there Solzhenitsyn had a tumor removed. His cancer was not diagnosed at the time.\n\nIn March 1953, after his sentence ended, Solzhenitsyn was sent to internal exile for life at Birlik, a village in Baidibek district of South Kazakhstan region of Kazakhstan (Kok-terek rural district). His undiagnosed cancer spread until, by the end of the year, he was close to death. In 1954, he was permitted to be treated in a hospital in Tashkent, where his tumor went into remission. His experiences there became the basis of his novel \"Cancer Ward\" and also found an echo in the short story \"The Right Hand\". It was during this decade of imprisonment and exile that Solzhenitsyn abandoned Marxism and developed the philosophical and religious positions of his later life, gradually becoming a philosophically-minded Eastern Orthodox Christian as a result of his experience in prison and the camps.\nHe repented for some of his actions as a Red Army captain, and in prison compared himself to the perpetrators of the Gulag: \"I remember myself in my captain's shoulder boards and the forward march of my battery through East Prussia, enshrouded in fire, and I say: 'So were we any better?'\" His transformation is described at some length in the fourth part of \"The Gulag Archipelago\" (\"The Soul and Barbed Wire\"). The narrative poem \"The Trail\" (written without benefit of pen or paper in prison and camps between 1947 and 1952) and the 28 poems composed in prison, forced-labour camp, and exile also provide crucial material for understanding Solzhenitsyn's intellectual and spiritual odyssey during this period. These \"early\" works, largely unknown in the West, were published for the first time in Russian in 1999 and excerpted in English in 2006.\n\nOn 7 April 1940, while at the university, Solzhenitsyn married Natalia Alekseevna Reshetovskaya. They had just over a year of married life before he went into the army, then to the Gulag. They divorced in 1952, a year before his release, because wives of Gulag prisoners faced loss of work or residence permits. After the end of his internal exile, they remarried in 1957, divorcing a second time in 1972.\n\nThe following year Solzhenitsyn married his second wife, Natalia Dmitrievna Svetlova, a mathematician who had a son from a brief prior marriage. He and Svetlova (born 1939) had three sons: Yermolai (1970), Ignat (1972), and Stepan (1973).\n\nSolzhenitsyn's adopted son Dmitri Turin died on March 18, 1994, aged 32, at his home in New York City due to a heart attack.\n\nAfter Khrushchev's Secret Speech in 1956, Solzhenitsyn was freed from exile and exonerated. Following his return from exile, Solzhenitsyn was, while teaching at a secondary school during the day, spending his nights secretly engaged in writing. In his Nobel Prize acceptance speech he wrote that \"during all the years until 1961, not only was I convinced I should never see a single line of mine in print in my lifetime, but, also, I scarcely dared allow any of my close acquaintances to read anything I had written because I feared this would become known.\"\n\nIn 1960, aged 42, he approached Aleksandr Tvardovsky, a poet and the chief editor of the \"Novy Mir\" magazine, with the manuscript of \"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\". It was published in edited form in 1962, with the explicit approval of Nikita Khrushchev, who defended it at the presidium of the Politburo hearing on whether to allow its publication, and added: \"There's a Stalinist in each of you; there's even a Stalinist in me. We must root out this evil.\" The book quickly sold out and became an instant hit. In the 1960s, while he was publicly known to be writing \"Cancer Ward\", he was simultaneously writing \"The Gulag Archipelago\". During Khrushchev's tenure, \"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\" was studied in schools in the Soviet Union, as were three more short works of Solzhenitsyn's, including his short story \"Matryona's Home\", published in 1963. These would be the last of his works published in the Soviet Union until 1990.\n\n\"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\" brought the Soviet system of prison labour to the attention of the West. It caused as much of a sensation in the Soviet Union as it did in the West—not only by its striking realism and candor, but also because it was the first major piece of Soviet literature since the 1920s on a politically charged theme, written by a non-party member, indeed a man who had been to Siberia for \"libelous speech\" about the leaders, and yet its publication had been officially permitted. In this sense, the publication of Solzhenitsyn's story was an almost unheard of instance of free, unrestrained discussion of politics through literature. Most Soviet readers realized this, but after Khrushchev had been ousted from power in 1964, the time for such raw exposing works came to an end.\n\nSolzhenitsyn made an unsuccessful attempt, with the help of Tvardovsky, to get his novel \"Cancer Ward\" legally published in the Soviet Union. This had to get the approval of the Union of Writers. Though some there appreciated it, the work ultimately was denied publication unless it was to be revised and cleaned of suspect statements and anti-Soviet insinuations.\n\nAfter Krushchev's removal in 1964, the cultural climate again became more repressive. Publishing of Solzhenitsyn's work quickly stopped; as a writer, he became a non-person, and, by 1965, the KGB had seized some of his papers, including the manuscript of \"The First Circle\". Meanwhile, Solzhenitsyn continued to secretly and feverishly work upon the most well-known of all his writings, \"The Gulag Archipelago\". The seizing of his novel manuscript first made him desperate and frightened, but gradually he realized that it had set him free from the pretenses and trappings of being an \"officially acclaimed\" writer, something which had come close to second nature, but which was becoming increasingly irrelevant.\n\nAfter the KGB had confiscated Solzhenitsyn's materials in Moscow, during 1965–67, the preparatory drafts of \"The Gulag Archipelago\" were turned into finished typescript in hiding at his friends' homes in Estonia. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn had befriended Arnold Susi, a lawyer and former Estonian Minister of Education in a Lubyanka Prison cell. After completion, Solzhenitsyn's original handwritten script was kept hidden from the KGB in Estonia by Arnold Susi's daughter Heli Susi until the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1969, Solzhenitsyn was expelled from the Union of Writers. In 1970, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. He could not receive the prize personally in Stockholm at that time, since he was afraid he would not be let back into the Soviet Union. Instead, it was suggested he should receive the prize in a special ceremony at the Swedish embassy in Moscow. The Swedish government refused to accept this solution because such a ceremony and the ensuing media coverage might upset the Soviet Union and damage Swedish-Soviet relations. Instead, Solzhenitsyn received his prize at the 1974 ceremony after he had been expelled from the Soviet Union.\n\n\"The Gulag Archipelago\" was composed from 1958 to 1967. It was a three-volume, seven part work on the Soviet prison camp system (Solzhenitsyn never had all seven parts of the work in front of him at one time). The book was based upon Solzhenitsyn's own experience as well as the testimony of 256 former prisoners and Solzhenitsyn's own research into the history of the Russian penal system. It discussed the system's origins from the founding of the Communist regime, with Vladimir Lenin having responsibility, detailing interrogation procedures, prisoner transports, prison camp culture, prisoner uprisings and revolts, and the practice of internal exile. \"The Gulag Archipelago\" has sold over thirty million copies in thirty-five languages.\n\nAccording to fellow gulag historian Anne Applebaum, \"The Gulag Archipelago\"'s rich and varied authorial voice, its unique weaving together of personal testimony, philosophical analysis, and historical investigation, and its unrelenting indictment of communist ideology made \"The Gulag Archipelago\" one of the most influential books of the 20th century.\n\nEven though \"The Gulag Archipelago\" was not published in the Soviet Union, it was extensively criticized by the Party-controlled Soviet press. An editorial in \"Pravda\" on 14 January 1974 accused Solzhenitsyn of supporting \"Hitlerites\" and making \"excuses for the crimes of the Vlasovites and Bandera gangs.\" According to the editorial, Solzhenitsyn was \"choking with pathological hatred for the country where he was born and grew up, for the socialist system, and for Soviet people.\"\n\nDuring this period, he was sheltered by the cellist Mstislav Rostropovich, who suffered considerably for his support of Solzhenitsyn and was eventually forced into exile himself.\n\nIn August 1971, the KGB allegedly made an attempt to assassinate Solzhenitsyn using an unknown biological agent (most likely ricin) with an experimental gel-based delivery method. The attempt left him seriously ill but was unsuccessful.\n\nIn a discussion of its options in dealing with Solzhenitsyn the members of the Politburo considered his arrest and imprisonment and his expulsion to a socialist country. Guided by KGB chief Yury Andropov, and with encouraging statements from Willy Brandt, it was decided to deport the writer directly to West Germany.\n\nOn 12 February 1974, Solzhenitsyn was arrested and deported the next day from the Soviet Union to Frankfurt, West Germany and stripped of his Soviet citizenship. The KGB had found the manuscript for the first part of \"The Gulag Archipelago\" and, less than a week later, Yevgeny Yevtushenko suffered reprisals for his support of Solzhenitsyn. U.S. military attaché William Odom managed to smuggle out a large portion of Solzhenitsyn's archive, including the author's membership card for the Writers' Union and Second World War military citations; Solzhenitsyn subsequently paid tribute to Odom's role in his memoir \"Invisible Allies\" (1995).\n\nIn West Germany, Solzhenitsyn lived in Heinrich Böll's house in Langenbroich. He then moved to Zürich, Switzerland before Stanford University invited him to stay in the United States to \"facilitate your work, and to accommodate you and your family.\" He stayed on the 11th floor of the Hoover Tower, part of the Hoover Institution, before moving to Cavendish, Vermont, in 1976. He was given an honorary Literary Degree from Harvard University in 1978 and on Thursday, 8 June 1978, he gave his Commencement Address, condemning, among other things, the press, the lack of spirituality and traditional values as well as anthropocentrism in Western culture.\n\nOver the next 17 years, Solzhenitsyn worked on his dramatized history of the Russian Revolution of 1917, \"The Red Wheel\". By 1992, four \"knots\" (parts) had been completed and he had also written several shorter works.\n\nDespite spending almost two decades in the United States, Solzhenitsyn did not become fluent in spoken English. He had, however, been reading English-language literature since his teens, encouraged by his mother. More importantly, he resented the idea of becoming a media star and of tempering his ideas or ways of talking in order to suit television. Solzhenitsyn's warnings about the dangers of Communist aggression and the weakening of the moral fiber of the West were generally well received in Western conservative circles (e.g. Ford administration staffers Richard Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld advocated on Solzhenitsyn's behalf for him to speak directly to President Gerald Ford about the Soviet threat), prior to and alongside the tougher foreign policy pursued by US President Ronald Reagan. At the same time, liberals and secularists became increasingly critical of what they perceived as his reactionary preference for Russian nationalism and the Russian Orthodox religion.\n\nSolzhenitsyn also harshly criticised what he saw as the ugliness and spiritual vapidity of the dominant pop culture of the modern West, including television and much of popular music: \"...the human soul longs for things higher, warmer, and purer than those offered by today's mass living habits... by TV stupor and by intolerable music.\" Despite his criticism of the \"weakness\" of the West, Solzhenitsyn always made clear that he admired the political liberty which was one of the enduring strengths of western democratic societies. In a major speech delivered to the International Academy of Philosophy in Liechtenstein on 14 September 1993, Solzhenitsyn implored the West not to \"lose sight of its own values, its historically unique stability of civic life under the rule of law—a hard-won stability which grants independence and space to every private citizen.\"\n\nIn a series of writings, speeches, and interviews after his return to his native Russia in 1994, Solzhenitsyn spoke about his admiration for the local self-government he had witnessed first hand in Switzerland and New England. He \"praised 'the sensible and sure process of grassroots democracy, in which the local population solves most of its problems on its own, not waiting for the decisions of higher authorities.'\" Solzhenitsyn's patriotism was inward-looking. He called for Russia to \"renounce all mad fantasies of foreign conquest and begin the peaceful long, long long period of recuperation,\" as he put it in a 1979 BBC interview with Janis Sapiets.\n\nOn 8 August 1971, Solzhenitsyn was poisoned with what was later determined to be ricin, but survived.\n\nOn 19 September 1974, Yuri Andropov approved a large-scale operation to discredit Solzhenitsyn and his family and cut his communications with Soviet dissidents. The plan was jointly approved by Vladimir Kryuchkov, Philipp Bobkov, and Grigorenko (heads of First, Second and Fifth KGB Directorates). The residencies in Geneva, London, Paris, Rome and other European cities participated in the operation. Among other active measures, at least three StB agents became translators and secretaries of Solzhenitsyn (one of them translated the poem \"Prussian Nights\"), keeping KGB informed regarding all contacts by Solzhenitsyn.\n\nThe KGB sponsored a series of hostile books about Solzhenitsyn, most notably a \"memoir published under the name of his first wife, Natalia Reshetovskaya, but probably mostly composed by Service\", according to historian Christopher Andrew. Andropov also gave an order to create \"an atmosphere of distrust and suspicion between Pauk and the people around him\" by feeding him rumors that everyone in his surrounding was a KGB agent and deceiving him in all possible ways. Among other things, the writer constantly received envelopes with photographs of car accidents, brain surgery and other frightening illustrations. After the KGB harassment in Zürich, Solzhenitsyn settled in Cavendish, Vermont, reduced communications with others and surrounded his property with a barbed wire fence. His influence and moral authority for the West diminished as he became increasingly isolated and critical of Western individualism. KGB and CPSU experts finally concluded that he alienated American listeners by his \"reactionary views and intransigent criticism of the US way of life\", so no further active measures would be required.\n\nIn 1990, his Soviet citizenship was restored, and, in 1994, he returned to Russia with his wife, Natalia, who had become a United States citizen. Their sons stayed behind in the United States (later, his oldest son Yermolai returned to Russia). From then until his death, he lived with his wife in a dacha in Troitse-Lykovo in west Moscow between the dachas once occupied by Soviet leaders Mikhail Suslov and Konstantin Chernenko. A staunch believer in traditional Russian culture, Solzhenitsyn expressed his disillusionment with post-Soviet Russia in works such as \"Rebuilding Russia\", and called for the establishment of a strong presidential republic balanced by vigorous institutions of local self-government. The latter would remain his major political theme. Solzhenitsyn also published eight two-part short stories, a series of contemplative \"miniatures\" or prose poems, a literary memoir on his years in the West (\"The Grain Between the Millstones\"), among many other writings. Once back in Russia Solzhenitsyn hosted a television talk show program. Its eventual format was Solzhenitsyn delivering a 15-minute monologue twice a month; it was discontinued in 1995. Solzhenitsyn became a supporter of Vladimir Putin who said he shared Solzhenitsyn's critical view towards the Russian Revolution.\n\nAll of Solzhenitsyn's sons became US citizens. One, Ignat, is a pianist and conductor. Elder son Yermolai works for the Moscow office of McKinsey & Company, a leading management consultancy firm, where he is now a senior partner.\n\nSolzhenitsyn died of heart failure near Moscow on 3 August 2008, at the age of 89. A burial service was held at Donskoy Monastery, Moscow, on Wednesday, 6 August 2008. He was buried the same day in the monastery in a spot he had chosen. Russian and world leaders paid tribute to Solzhenitsyn following his death.\n\nThe Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn Center supports explorations into the life and writings of the author and hosts the official English-language site dedicated Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. The center strives to advance the legacy of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn in the English-speaking world through the promotion of a better understanding of his life, thought, and works.\n\nRegarding atheism, Solzhenitsyn declared:\nIn his 1974 essay \"Repentance and Self-Limitation in the Life of Nations\", Solzhenitsyn called for Russian Gentiles and Jews alike to take moral responsibility for the \"renegades\" from both communities who enthusiastically created a Marxist–Leninist police state after the October Revolution. In a November 13, 1985, review of Solzhenitsyn's novel \"August 1914\" in \"The New York Times\", Jewish American historian Richard Pipes commented: \"Every culture has its own brand of anti-Semitism. In Solzhenitsyn's case, it's not racial. It has nothing to do with blood. He's certainly not a racist; the question is fundamentally religious and cultural. He bears some resemblance to Fyodor Dostoyevsky, who was a fervent Christian and patriot. Solzhenitsyn is unquestionably in the grip of the Russian extreme right's view of the Revolution, which is that it was the doing of the Jews\".\n\nIn his 1998 book \"Russia in Collapse\", Solzhenitsyn excoriated the Russian extreme right's obsession with anti-Semitic and anti-Masonic conspiracy theories. Jewish Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel wrote that Solzhenitsyn was \"too intelligent, too honest, too courageous, too great a writer\" to be an anti-Semite.\n\nIn 2001, however, Solzhenitsyn published a two-volume work on the history of Russian-Jewish relations (\"Two Hundred Years Together\" 2001, 2002). A bestseller in Russia, the book triggered renewed accusations of anti-Semitism. Similarities between \"Two Hundred Years Together\" and an anti-Semitic essay titled \"Jews in the USSR and in the Future Russia\", attributed to Solzhenitsyn, has led to inference that he stands behind the anti-Semitic passages. Solzhenitsyn himself claims that the essay consists of manuscripts stolen from him, and then manipulated, forty years ago. However, according to the historian Semyon Reznik, textological analyses have proven Solzhenitsyn's authorship.\n\nIn some of his later political writings, such as \"Rebuilding Russia\" (1990) and \"Russia in Collapse\" (1998), Solzhenitsyn criticized the oligarchic excesses of the new Russian 'democracy,' while opposing any nostalgia for Soviet Communism. He defended moderate and self-critical patriotism (as opposed to extreme nationalism), urged local self-government to a free Russia, and expressed concerns for the fate of the 25 million ethnic Russians in the \"near abroad\" of the former Soviet Union.\n\nIn a 2007 interview with \"Der Spiegel\", Solzhenitsyn expressed disappointment that the \"conflation of 'Soviet' and 'Russian', against which I spoke so often in the 1970s, has not passed away in the West, in the ex-socialist countries, or in the former Soviet republics. The elder political generation in communist countries is not ready for repentance, while the new generation is only too happy to voice grievances and level accusations, with present-day Moscow [as] a convenient target. They behave as if they heroically liberated themselves and lead a new life now, while Moscow has remained communist. Nevertheless, I dare [to] hope that this unhealthy phase will soon be over, that all the peoples who have lived through communism will understand that communism is to blame for the bitter pages of their history.\"\n\nOnce in the United States, Solzhenitsyn sharply criticized the West. In his commencement address at Harvard University in 1978, Solzhenitsyn said: \"But members of the U.S. antiwar movement wound up being involved in the betrayal of Far Eastern nations, in a genocide and in the suffering today imposed on 30 million people there. Do those convinced pacifists hear the moans coming from there?\"\n\nSolzhenitsyn criticized the Allies for not opening a new front against Nazi Germany in the west earlier in World War II. This resulted in Soviet domination and oppression of the nations of Eastern Europe. Solzhenitsyn claimed the Western democracies apparently cared little about how many died in the East, as long as they could end the war quickly and painlessly for themselves in the West.\nDelivering the commencement address at Harvard University in 1978, he called the United States spiritually weak and mired in vulgar materialism. Americans, he said, speaking in Russian through a translator, suffered from a \"decline in courage\" and a \"lack of manliness.\" Few were willing to die for their ideals, he said. He condemned both the United States government and American society for its \"hasty\" capitulation in the Vietnam War. He criticized the country's music as intolerable and attacked its unfettered press, accusing it of violations of privacy. He said that the West erred in measuring other civilizations by its own model. While faulting Soviet society for denying fair legal treatment of people, he also faulted the West for being too legalistic: \"A society which is based on the letter of the law and never reaches any higher is taking very scarce advantage of the high level of human possibilities.\" Solzhenitsyn also argued that the West erred in \"denying [Russian culture's] autonomous character and therefore never understood it\".\n\nIn 2006, Solzhenitsyn accused NATO of trying to bring Russia under its control; he claimed this was visual because of its \"ideological support for the 'colour revolutions' and the paradoxical forcing of North Atlantic interests on Central Asia\". In a 2006 interview with \"Der Spiegel\" he stated \"This was especially painful in the case of Ukraine, a country whose closeness to Russia is defined by literally millions of family ties among our peoples, relatives living on different sides of the national border. At one fell stroke, these families could be torn apart by a new dividing line, the border of a military bloc.\"\n\nSolzhenitsyn emphasized the significantly more oppressive character of the Soviet totalitarian regime, in comparison to the Russian Empire of the House of Romanov. He asserted that Imperial Russia did not practice any real censorship in the style of the Soviet Glavlit, that political prisoners typically were not forced into labor camps, and that the number of political prisoners and exiles was only one ten-thousandth of those in the Soviet Union. He noted that the Tsar's secret police, or Okhrana, was only present in the three largest cities, and not at all in the Imperial Russian Army.\n\nShortly before his return to Russia, Solzhenitsyn delivered a speech in Lucs-sur-Boulogne to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Vendée Uprising. During his speech, Solzhenitsyn compared Lenin's Bolsheviks with the Jacobin Party during the French Revolution. He also compared the Vendean rebels with the Russian, Ukrainian, and Cossack peasants who rebelled against the Bolsheviks, saying that both were destroyed mercilessly by revolutionary despotism. However, he commented that, while the French Reign of Terror ended with the toppling of the Jacobins and the execution of Maximilien Robespierre, its Soviet equivalent continued to accelerate until the Khrushchev thaw of the 1950s.\n\nAccording to Solzhenitsyn, Russians were not the ruling nation in the Soviet Union. He believed that all the traditional culture of all ethnic groups were equally oppressed in favor of an atheism and Marxist–Leninism. Russian culture was even more repressed than any other culture in the Soviet Union, since the regime was more afraid of ethnic uprisings among Russian Christians than among any other ethnicity. Therefore, Solzhenitsyn argued, Russian nationalism and the Orthodox Church should not be regarded as a threat by the West but rather as allies.\n\nIn \"Rebuilding Russia,\" an essay first published in 1990 in \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" Solzhenitsyn urged Russia to grant independence to all the non-Slav republics, which he claimed were sapping the Russian nation and he called for the creation of a new Slavic state bringing together Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, and parts of Kazakhstan that he considered to be Russified.\n\nAccording to Daniel J. Mahoney, \"...if one opens almost any page of Solzhenitsyn's 1994 essay \"The Russian Question\" at the End of the Twentieth Century\" one finds Solzhenitsyn attacking the cruelties and injustice of serfdom, faulting Tsarist authorities for their blindness about the need for political liberty in Russia, and for their wasting of the nation's strength in unnecessary and counterproductive foreign adventures. Moreover, he attacks Pan-Slavism, the idea that Russia had a mission to unite Slavic peoples and to come to the defense of the Orthodox wherever they were under threat, as a 'wretched idea'.\"\n\nSolzhenitsyn gave a speech to AFL–CIO in Washington, D.C., on 30 June 1975, where he mentioned how the system created by Bolsheviks in 1917 caused dozens of problems in the Soviet Union. He described how this system \"in time of peace, artificially created a famine, causing 6 million people to die in the Ukraine in 1932 and 1933.\" Following this, he stated that \"they died on the very edge of Europe. And Europe didn't even notice it. The world didn't even notice it—6 million people!\" Solzhenitsyn opined on 2 April 2008 in \"Izvestia\" that the 1930s famine in the Ukraine was no different from the Russian famine of 1921 as both were caused by the ruthless robbery of peasants by Bolshevik grain procurements. He claimed that the \"provocatory shriek about a 'genocide' was started in the minds of Ukrainian chauvinists decades later, who are also viciously opposed to 'Moskals.'\" The writer cautioned that the genocidal claim has its chances to be accepted by the West due to the general western ignorance of Russian and Ukrainian history.\n\nSolzhenitsyn's philosophy plays a key role in the 2012 film \"Cloud Atlas\", where a character previously kept ignorant and subservient is illegally educated, and is shown reading and quoting his works.\n\nIn October 1983, French literary journalist Bernard Pivot made an hour-long TV interview with Solzhenitsyn at his rural home in Vermont, U.S. Solzhenitsyn discussed his writing, the evolution of his language and style, his family and his outlook on the future—and stated his wish to return to Russia in his lifetime, not just to see his books eventually printed there. Earlier the same year, Solzhenitsyn was interviewed on separate occasions by two British journalists, Bernard Levin and Malcolm Muggeridge.\n\nIn 1998, Russian filmmaker Alexander Sokurov shot TV documentary \"Besedy s Solzhenitsynym\" (\"The Dialogues with Solzhenitsyn\") of four parts. The documentary shot in Solzhenitsyn's home shows his everyday life and covers his reflections on Russian history and literature.\n\nOn 12 December 2009, the Russian channel \"Rossiya K\" showed the French television documentary \"L'Histoire Secrète de l'Archipel du Goulag\" [The Secret History of the Goulag Archipel] made by Jean Crépu and Nicolas Miletitch and translated into Russian under the title \"Taynaya Istoriya \"Arkhipelaga Gulag\"\" (\"Secret History: The Gulag Archipelago\"). The documentary covers events related to creation and publication of \"The Gulag Archipelago\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10066934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10066934", "title": "Basel IA", "text": "Basel IA\n\nBasel IA was proposed as an intermediate between the current Basel I accord and the Basel II accord that is being implemented. Basel IA would have been more risk sensitive than Basel I but would not be as complex as the advanced approach under Basel II.\n\nOn July 20, 2007 by a deal between the various US banking regulators (The Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) it was decided to drop the proposed Basel IA and allow Basel II Standardised in its place.\n\nThe US initially proposed that banks would need to use the advanced approach only if they were to implement Basel II. The idea of Basel IA was to enable smaller US banks to adopt a methodology that is more risk sensitive than Basel I that they are currently using for calculating capital adequacy. The Fed chairman mentioned that smaller banks who do not wish to move to Basel II Advanced or Basel IA could continue to operate under Basel I.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "621628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621628", "title": "Blood money (restitution)", "text": "Blood money (restitution)\n\nBlood money, also called bloodwit, is money or some sort of compensation paid by an offender (usually a murderer) or his/her family group to the family or kin group of the victim.\n\nBlood money is, colloquially, the reward for bringing a criminal to justice. A common meaning in other contexts is the money-penalty paid by a murderer to the kinsfolk of the victim. These fines completely protect the offender (or the kinsfolk thereof) from the vengeance of the injured family. The system was common among Germanic peoples before the introduction of Christianity (weregild), and a scale of payments, graduated according to the heinousness of the crime, was fixed by laws, which further settled who could exact the blood-money, and who were entitled to share it. Homicide was not the only crime thus expiable: blood-money could be exacted for all crimes of violence. Some acts, such as killing someone in a church or while asleep, or within the precincts of the royal palace, were \"bot-less\"; and the death penalty was inflicted. Such a criminal was outlawed, and could be killed on sight.\n\nIn Islamic terms, Qisas can in some cases result in blood money being paid out to the family of victims. The amount varies from country to country and from case to case.\n\nAs a person's life is considered as being the property of God, Judaism forbids the taking of blood-money for the life of a murdered victim.\n\nIn Japanese culture it is common to give blood money or \"mimaikin\" to a victim's family. Such was the case with Lucie Blackman's father who accepted £450,000 as blood money for the murder of his daughter.\n\nUnder the Korean legal system, it is common for those accused of both minor (such as defamation) and serious crimes (such as rape) to offer blood money (\"hapuigeum\", 합의금) to the victim, and if accepted then the perpetrator is usually excused further punishment. It is often brokered by the police. Despite being common practice, its use in high-profile cases does sometimes result in protests.\n\nIn the Somali people's customary law, which they call \"Xeer\" (a polycentric legal system developed indigenously), blood money is issued in the event of libel, theft, physical harm, rape and death, as well as to supply assistance to relatives of the injured party.\n\nIn the Christian Bible, the term is used to refer to the thirty pieces of silver Judas Iscariot received in exchange for revealing the identity of Jesus Christ to the forces sent by the Pharisees and/or the Sanhedrin. After the crucifixion of Christ, Judas returned the payment to the chief priests, who “took the silver pieces and said, ‘It is not lawful for to put them into the treasury, because it is the price of blood.’” \n\n\"Shanghaiing\" was the practice of the forced conscription of sailors. Boarding masters, whose job it was to find crews for ships, were paid \"by the body,\" and thus had a strong incentive to place as many seamen on ships as possible. This pay was called blood money.\n"}
{"id": "56214078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56214078", "title": "Boult Wade Tennant", "text": "Boult Wade Tennant\n\nBoult Wade Tennant LLP is an intellectual property law firm established in 1894 with offices in London, Madrid, Munich, Cambridge, Reading, and Oxford.\n\nEstablished in 1894, Boult Wade Tennant are one of the largest Intellectual Property firms in the UK and work with a variety of clients including national and international companies, governments, entrepreneurs, and start-ups. As patent and trade mark attorneys, Boult Wade Tennant work within multiple practice areas: biotechnology and life sciences, chemical and materials, engineering and designs, high tech and electrical, and trade mark and domain names. The firm works to protect intellectual property for inventions, designs, and brands through patent, trade marks, and registered designs. They are experienced in both UK and European patents being able to work with European clients and clients worldwide, with offices in the UK, Germany, and as of the 14th May 2018, Spain.\n\nSince becoming a limited liability partnership in April 2018, the firm have 20 designated members including senior partner Nick McLeish and managing partner John Wallace.\n\nBoult Wade Tennant was founded by Alfred Julius Boult (1848–1932) in 1894. Boult was one of the founder members of the Royal Automobile Club, and after the removal of the old red-flag law, successfully completed the London to Brighton course. Boult became a partner in the firm of Messrs. W. P. Thompson and Boult of 63 Long-Row West Nottingham in 1881.\n\nAfter leaving the partnership in 1894, Boult set up his first office in the name of Boult and Wade at 323 High Holborn London, taking over the debts and accounts of W. P. Thompson. Harold Wade was the Governor of University College School and was involved in the building of the first London cinema. Along with Boult, Wade was part of the institute of patent agents and procured patents and trade marks in all countries.\n\nThe firm changed their name to Messrs. Boult, Wade, and Kilburn in 1899 when Bertram Kilburn joined as a partner. Following the departure of Kilburn, who set up his own practice in 1906, Kilburn and Strode LLP; the firm again changed their name to the present form Boult, Wade, Tennant. Before joining Boult, Wade, and Tennant, William John Tennant (1866–1951) was part of a firm of consulting civil engineers.\n\nHis expertise in the patent world mainly focused on automobile patents, an innovative industry at the time in which both Boult and Wade were heavily invested in. Shortly after its inception, he became a Member of the Institution of Automobile Engineers and rose to vice-president in 1930. It was at this time that the premises moved to 111-112 Hatton Gardens, London.\n\nIn 1895, Boult and Wade researched and cased a watermarking improvement as a novel invention by inventor W. K. Trotman. The patent was worth £20,000 in cash and £30,000 in fully paid up ordinary shares of £1.00 each an extraordinary sum for the time.\n\nin 1896 Boult and Wade aided in the patentcy of tyres for the automobile industry by the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company. John Boyd Dunlop, being the inventor of the first pneumatic tyre In 1888, discovering the pneumatic tyre principle and revolutionising the automotive industry.\n\nin 1898 Boult and Wade patented an improvement in needles for the manufacture of felted fabrics.\n\nIn 1913, Boult, Wade and Tennant performed a search of patents to similar patents to the invention by Mr Lamplough, a way of cracking oil during the process of motor spirit production. The Lamplough is now one of the chief processes for the efficient commercial production of motor spirit from creosote and shale.\n\nIn 1926, Boult, Wade and Tennant worked with John Logie Baird in acquiring patents to commercially develop the Baird Television. The firm created covering letters, patents, and protection for the Baird System of television to enable vision of living and moving beings… to be transmitted by wireless and land wire. In a report received from Messrs Boult, Wade and Tennant, they stated:\n\n\"We have the pleasure in certifying that twenty-nine patents and applications for patents have been filed in this country in connection with the Baird System of television.\"\n\nIn 1954, Boult, Wade and Tennant corresponded with the Universal Brewery Equipment Ltd in their design of metal containers used for storing, transporting, and dispensing beer. This consisted of specification and technical drawings.\n\n"}
{"id": "5546802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5546802", "title": "Certificate of incorporation", "text": "Certificate of incorporation\n\nA certificate of incorporation is a legal document relating to the formation of a company or corporation. It is a license to form a corporation issued by state government or, in some jurisdictions, by non-governmental entity. Its precise meaning depends upon the legal system in which it is used.\n\nIn the U.S. a certificate of incorporation is usually used as an alternative description of a corporation's articles of incorporation. The certificate of incorporation, or articles of incorporation, form a major constituent part of the constitutional documents of the corporation. In English and Commonwealth legal systems, a certificate of incorporation is usually a simple certificate issued by the relevant government registry as confirmation of the due incorporation and valid existence of the company.\n\nIn other common law legal systems, the certificate of incorporation has less legal significance. Although it has been held by the House of Lords in \"Cotman v Brougham\" (1918) AC 514, that because the issue the certificate of incorporation is conclusive evidence of the formation of a company, the issuance of the certificate overrides any irregularities which may have occurred during the formation of the company.\n"}
{"id": "48673246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48673246", "title": "Commission v France (1997)", "text": "Commission v France (1997)\n\nCommission v France (1997) C-265/95 is an EU law case, concerning the free movement of goods in the European Union.\n\nFrench farmers sabotaged imported agricultural produce, such as Spanish strawberries and Belgian tomatoes, and French authorities turned a blind eye. The Commission brought enforcement proceedings under TFEU article 258 for ‘failing to take all necessary and proportionate measures’ to prevent the obstructions to trade by the farmers. It argued the failure contravened TFEU article 34 in conjunction with TEU article 4(3) on the duty of cooperation (ex article 10 TEC).\n\nThe Court of Justice held that TFEU article 34 was infringed, as it prohibited not only state action, but also inaction. The French authorities should have acted and would be liable for \"manifestly and persistently\" abstaining from taking appropriate measures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33241824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33241824", "title": "Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act", "text": "Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act\n\nThe (\"CCAA\") () is a statute of the Parliament of Canada that allows insolvent corporations owing their creditors in excess of $5 million to restructure their business and financial affairs.\n\nIn 1990, the British Columbia Court of Appeal discussed the background behind the introduction of the CCAA in one of its rulings:\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada did not have a chance to explain the nature of the CCAA until the groundbreaking case of \"Century Services Inc. v. Canada (Attorney General)\" in 2010. In it, a detailed analysis was given in explaining the nature of insolvency law in Canada.\n\nThe \"Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act\" (BIA) provides a more rules-based approach for resolving a corporate debtor's insolvency, which must be observed strictly. The CCAA, on the other hand, provides a more discretionary approach that is remedial in nature, which therefore must be broadly construed.\n\nAlthough the CCAA was originally enacted in 1933, extensive use of it only began in the economic downturn of the early 1980s. Recent legislative amendments of the BIA and CCAA have served to harmonize key aspects, such as the use of single proceedings, a common priority of claims structure, and encouraging reorganization over liquidation.\n\nThis is noted together with s. 11 of the CCAA, which states that a court may, \"subject to the restrictions set out in this Act, . . . make any order that it considers appropriate in the circumstances\".\n\nThe decision notes the interrelated nature of proceedings under the CCAA and BIA:\n\nThe scope of the CCAA is quite broad. It applies to any debtor company (or group of affiliated companies) that owes more than $5 million, other than:\n\nand:\n\nNo person may terminate or amend — or claim an accelerated payment or forfeiture of the term under — any agreement, including a security agreement, with any debtor company subject to the CCAA by reason only that proceedings commenced under the CCAA or that the company is insolvent.\n\nAgreements can be assigned or disclaimed by the debtor company as a result of the proceeding, by following prescribed procedures. These provisions extend beyond being used only within restructuring plans, and the courts have held that there is \"no reason…why the same analysis cannot apply during a sale process that requires the business to be carried as a going concern\", In that regard:\n\nNegotiated compromises and arrangements may deal with any matter, including claims against directors and amendments to the articles of incorporation or letters patent incorporating the company. When they have been approved by each participating class of creditors (by a two-thirds vote by value of the claims involved) the court may then approve it, and it will be binding on all persons, including trustees in bankruptcy.\n\nThey cannot be approved by the court if provision is not made for settling \"super priority\" claims (as they are known under the BIA) relating to:\n\nIn addition, no amounts relating to \"equity claims\" may be authorized by the court under a compromise or arrangement until all other claims are first paid in full. \"Equity claims\" have been held to include any claims shareholders may have against third parties in certain circumstances.\n\nAny interested person may apply to the court for an order under the Act. This is normally the debtor company, but a creditor can also do so. The court having jurisdiction is the superior court for the province in which the company's head office or chief place of business in Canada, or, in the absence of that, where any of its assets are situated.\n\nWhen the application is made, the court is required to appoint a monitor with respect to the business and financial affairs of the company, who must be a trustee in bankruptcy under the \"Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act\". The monitor is required to investigate and report back to the court on the company, advise the court with respect to any actions that need to be taken, and to carry out any other functions in relation to the company that the court may direct.\n\nWhere a compromise or arrangement has already been negotiated with the secured or unsecured creditors essentially creating a pre-packaged insolvency the court may summarily order that it proceed to be voted on by each class of creditors concerned, and, where necessary, by the shareholders as well. Whether a creditor is secured or unsecured is governed by the BIA.\n\nHowever, the court is not bound to accept an application under the Act, and it can terminate previously granted orders (and even declare them to have been void \"ab initio\") where an applicant has not made full and fair disclosure of all material facts. Where a petition for CCAA relief appears to be more like a defensive tactic than a \"bona fide\" attempt to restructure, it may prefer to order receivership instead.\n\nWhere no such compromise or arrangement has been negotiated, the court, on application, may issue an order, lasting for 30 days,\nany proceedings against the debtor company, while negotiations are held to secure a compromise or arrangement with creditors and shareholders. The court may extend the protection for any period it sees fit. A stay may be lifted upon application to the court, but only in very restricted circumstances:\n\nProvision is made for such stays not affecting investigations undertaken by any regulatory body (other than with respect to any payment that may be ordered), but the court can order the cancellation of such exemption where:\n\nHowever, as noted in \"Newfoundland and Labrador v. AbitibiBowater Inc.\", not all payments required under regulatory orders constitute claims under the \"CCAA\" and are thus subject to stay. Subsequent jurisprudence suggests that determining the status of such orders will be case-specific.\n\nIn addition, the court has broad discretion in administering any other issues that may arise. As the Act says,\n\nThis has allowed for very creative applications for resolving difficult scenarios, including:\n\nIn order to assure that the company's operations will continue during the proceedings, the court has power to declare that the assets of the company are subject to a security or charge with respect to certain matters, and may further order that such charges rank ahead of those of secured creditors. They include:\n\nThis \"super priority\" status is construed broadly, and has been held to even defeat statutory deemed trusts (such as those concerning pension plan deficiencies and vacation pay that exist in Ontario), as well as \"in rem\" claims such as maritime liens that are found in maritime law.\n\nThe court may also order:\n\nThe CCAA has been described as being similar in nature to Chapter 11 proceedings in the United States and to administration proceedings and company voluntary arrangements (\"CVAs\") in the United Kingdom. Differences between the various proceedings include the following highlights:\n\n"}
{"id": "43677434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43677434", "title": "Daniels v Thompson", "text": "Daniels v Thompson\n\nDaniels v Thompson CA86/96 [1998] NZCA 3; [1998] 3 NZLR 22 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding exemplary damages in tort, in order to get around the normal restrictions that ACC legislation place on injury claims.\n\nThis case involved 4 victims claiming exemplary damages for sexual abuse they experienced against the offenders, all of which had been earlier prosecuted in court for this offending.\n\nThe 4 cases were as follows:\n\nDaniels v Thompson - Upon the breakup of their relationship, Daniels unwisely sued his ex partner for the return of relationship property, which she lodged a counterclaim for kidnapping and rape, which resulted in him later being charged and convicted for these offences.\n\nJ v Bell - J was sexually abused by a female\n\nW v W [1999] 2 NZLR 1 - sued her psychologist for sexual abuse, and although court acquitted the psychologist after an 8-day trial, still faced a civil claim\n\nH v P - H was sexually abused by her father\n\nThe Court of Appeal ruled that to face a civil claim that had previously been dealt with in a criminal prosecution, was an \"abuse of process\", and accordingly the victims civil claims were struck out. J v Bell and W v W subsequently appealed unsuccessfully to the Privy Council. See [1999] UKPC 2 \n\nFootnote: As a result of this ruling, the ACT Party managed to get the law changed under section 317 of the Injury Prevention and Rehabilitation Act 2001 to allow such claims in the future.\n"}
{"id": "7021892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7021892", "title": "DeShaney v. Winnebago County", "text": "DeShaney v. Winnebago County\n\nDeShaney v. Winnebago County, 489 U.S. 189 (1989), was a case decided by the Supreme Court of the United States on February 22, 1989. The court held that a state government agency's failure to prevent child abuse by a custodial parent does not violate the child's right to liberty for the purposes of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nIn 1980, a divorce court in Wyoming gave custody of Joshua DeShaney, born in 1979, to his father Randy DeShaney, who moved to Winnebago County, Wisconsin. A police report of child abuse and a hospital visit in January, 1983, prompted the county Department of Social Services (DSS) to obtain a court order to keep the boy in the hospital's custody. Three days later, \"On the recommendation of a 'child protection team,' consisting of a pediatrician, a psychologist, a police detective, the county's lawyer, several DSS caseworkers, and various hospital personnel, the juvenile court dismissed the case and returned the boy to the custody of his father.\" The DSS entered an agreement with the boy's father, and five times throughout 1983, a DSS social worker visited the DeShaney home and recorded suspicion of child abuse and that the father was not complying with the agreement's terms. No action was taken; the DSS also took no action to remove the boy from his father's custody after a hospital reported child abuse suspicions to them in November, 1983. Visits in January and March, 1984, in which the worker was told Joshua was too ill to see her, also resulted in no action. Following the March, 1984, visit, \"Randy DeShaney beat 4-year-old Joshua so severely that he fell into a life-threatening coma. Emergency brain surgery revealed a series of hemorrhages caused by traumatic injuries to the head inflicted over a long period of time. Joshua suffered brain damage so severe that he was expected to spend the rest of his life confined to an institution for the profoundly retarded. He died Monday, November 9, 2015 at the age of 36. Randy DeShaney was subsequently tried and convicted of child abuse.\" DeShaney served less than two years in jail.\n\nJoshua DeShaney's mother filed a lawsuit on his behalf against Winnebago County, the Winnebago County DSS, and DSS employees under 42 U.S.C. § 1983. The lawsuit claimed that by failing to intervene and protect him from violence about which they knew or should have known, the agency violated Joshua's right to liberty without the due process guaranteed to him by the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe court ruled 6-3 to uphold the appeals court's grant of summary judgment. The DSS's actions were found not to constitute a violation of Joshua DeShaney's due process rights.\n\nThe court opinion, by Chief Justice William Rehnquist, held that the due process clause protects against state action only, and as it was Randy DeShaney who abused Joshua, a state actor (the Winnebago County Department of Social Services) was not responsible.\n\nFurthermore, they ruled that the DSS could not be found liable, as a matter of constitutional law, for failure to protect Joshua DeShaney from a private actor. Although there exist conditions in which the state (or a subsidiary agency, like a county department of social services) is obligated to provide protection against private actors, and failure to do so is a violation of Fourteenth Amendment rights, the court reasoned, \"The affirmative duty to protect arises not from the State's knowledge of the individual's predicament or from its expressions of intent to help him, but from the limitation which it has imposed on his freedom to act on his own behalf... it is the State's affirmative act of restraining the individual's freedom to act on his own behalf - through incarceration, institutionalization, or other similar restraint of personal liberty - which is the \"deprivation of liberty\" triggering the protections of the Due Process Clause, not its failure to act to protect his liberty interests against harms inflicted by other means.\". Since Joshua DeShaney was not in the custody of the DSS, the DSS was not required to protect him from harm. In reaching this conclusion, the court opinion relied heavily on its precedents in \"Estelle v. Gamble\" and \"Youngberg v. Romeo\".\n\nRehnquist's opinion stated that although the DSS's failure to act may have made it liable for a tort under Wisconsin state law, the Fourteenth Amendment does not transform every tort by a state actor into a violation of constitutional rights. Specifically, the act of creating a Department of Social Services to investigate and respond to allegations of child abuse may have meant that Winnebago County assumed a duty to prevent what Randy DeShaney did to Joshua DeShaney, and failure to fulfil that duty may have constituted a tort.\n\nThe court's ruling generated two dissents. The first, by Associate Justice William Brennan, asserted that whether or not the Due Process Clause gave Joshua DeShaney a constitutional right to protection against abuse was a non-sequitur, since it was not an argument presented to either of the lower courts or even to the Supreme Court and \"no one, in short, has asked the Court to proclaim that, as a general matter, the Constitution safeguards positive as well as negative liberties.\" He went on to say that Rehnquist used a flawed interpretation of the Estelle and Youngberg precedents, which Brennan held \"to stand for the much more generous proposition that, if a State cuts off private sources of aid and then refuses aid itself, it cannot wash its hands of the harm that results from its inaction.\" Finally, Brennan argued that the Wisconsin child-protection laws created a regime in which private citizens and government bodies other than a Department of Social Services had no power or role to intervene with child abuse other than notifying the DSS. As such, Brennan held that the child-protection laws constituted the same custodial \"deprivation of liberty\" that Rehnquist's opinion held necessary for a Due Process violation.\n\nA second, shorter but more famous dissent was written by Associate Justice Harry Blackmun, who had (along with Associate Justice Thurgood Marshall) joined Brennan's dissent. In the first of his opinion's four paragraphs, Blackmun reiterated Brennan's contention that there had been state action in establishing a DSS that promised to provide protection against child abuse and absolved all other state and non-state actors of the responsibility or authority to act. He went on to compare the Court's ruling to the Dred Scott case, saying that in both cases the court upheld an injustice by choosing a restrictive interpretation of the Constitution and then denying that choice.\n\nBlackmun's dissent is famous due to its fourth paragraph which is as follows:\n\nPoor Joshua! Victim of repeated attacks by an irresponsible, bullying, cowardly, and intemperate father, and abandoned by respondents who placed him in a dangerous predicament and who knew or learned what was going on, and yet did essentially nothing except, as the Court revealingly observes, ante, at 193, \"dutifully recorded these incidents in [their] files.\" It is a sad commentary upon American life, and constitutional principles - so full of late of patriotic fervor and proud proclamations about \"liberty and justice for all\" - that this child, Joshua DeShaney, now is assigned to live out the remainder of his life profoundly retarded. Joshua and his mother, as petitioners here, deserve - but now are denied by this Court - the opportunity to have the facts of their case considered in the light of the constitutional protection that 42 U.S.C. 1983 is meant to provide.\n\nPresident Bill Clinton quoted the \"Poor Joshua!\" paragraph in his remarks on Blackmun's retirement, and the \"DeShaney v. Winnebago\" dissent was, along with his authorship of the \"Roe v. Wade\" decision, the most widely referenced element of Blackmun's career in obituaries following his death. It was also quoted as the headline for \"Time\" magazine's article on the decision.\n\nCornell law professor Michael C. Dorf has written that \"\"DeShaney\" was a legitimately difficult case about the point at which state indifference to private action that the Constitution does not regulate becomes unconstitutional 'state action.'\"\n\nIn the lead-up, in June 2010, to confirmation hearings for Solicitor General Elena Kagan's appointment to the Supreme Court by President Barack Obama, Linda Greenhouse in \"The New York Times\" summarized:\nTwo decades later, the DeShaney decision remains a subject of contention. It has prompted a large literature, including at least one book (\"The DeShaney Case: Child Abuse, Family Rights and the Dilemma of State Intervention,\" by Lynne Curry) and many law review articles. Lower courts have cited it hundreds of times. The Supreme Court is regularly asked to revisit the issue and regularly declines, without comment, to do so.\nThe case had entered the confirmation process because Kagan was a law clerk to Justice Marshall when the appeal first arrived at the Court and wrote a memo to Marshall cautioning against taking the case (a) without a signal of wider support on the Court (the \"Join 3\" response: an agreement conditioned on another three justices first agreeing; Kagan called it the \"Join 4\" and was corrected by the Justice) and (b) because the Court was likely to rule, as it ultimately did, against the extension of the due process protection to find for the plaintiff in the case. Two Republican Senators, Jon Kyl of Arizona and Jeff Sessions of Alabama, had looked at other of Kagan's memos from her clerkship and found that they showed she \"was highly opinionated and wanted to use the law to achieve specific policy results, rather than deciding legal questions on their merits.\" The senators, with Sessions being the senior Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee where the confirmation hearings were to open on June 28, didn't address the DeShaney memo directly. However, in the AP report Greenhouse cited, \"[t]he two senators cited notes Kagan wrote to Marshall in which she argued that the Supreme Court shouldn't take certain cases based on her fear that they would give its conservative majority the chance to scale back abortion and criminal rights, among others. ... Kyl called the memos 'troubling.'\"\n\nThe book mentioned by Greenhouse is part of the University Press of Kansas Series \"Landmark Law Cases and American Society.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "45562261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45562261", "title": "Digital labor", "text": "Digital labor\n\nDigital labor or digital labour is the exploitation of unpaid labor in the creation of content for social media. Digital labor describes a series of affective and social activities within capitalist modes of production not typically viewed as work, including the increasing participation on social media websites, and the effect of social media on social patterns and communication and the collapse of work and play.\n\nThe notion of digital labor has evolved from the traditions of workerist/Operaismo, Autonomism, and Post-Fordist theory that grew during the workers' struggles in Italy, which included a substantial feminist movement in the Wages for housework campaign.\n\nDigital labor as a field also includes consideration of the affect and the axiomatization of the body, collective intelligences, and the hive mind, semiotics and postmodernism, artificial intelligence, science fiction, gaming culture, hyper-reality, disappearance of the commodity, contested definitions of the \"knowledge worker\" in capitalistic society.\n\nDigital labor borrows from understandings that the cognitive-cultural economy, and the rise of capitalism in the 20th century, has eliminated the previous separation that existed between work and play/entertainment.\n\nThe rise of digital labor can be attributed to the shift of human history from the Industrial Revolution to the Information Age, as production-based industries declined with the rise of a new digital and information-based economy. Multiple authors, including Christian Fuchs (sociologist) and Sebastian Sevignani, have linked digital labor to the theory of Marxism. Marxism states that capitalism creates a class struggle between the minority and the working class majority. Although this theory applies to the production economy of the time, it can be used to describe labor within the digital economy as digital labor replaces factory labor.\n\nDigital labor is rooted in Italian autonomist, workerist/\"Operaismo\" worker's rights movements of the 1960s and 1970s, as well as the wages for housework movement founded by Selma James in 1972. The idea of the \"digital economy\" is defined as the moment, where work has shifted from the factory to the social realm. Italian autonomists would describe this as the, \"social factory.\"\nStudies of the digital labor of social media were some of the first critques of digital labor. This included scholarship like, \"What the MySpace generation should know about working for free\" (Trebor Scholz), and \"From Mobile Playgrounds to Sweatshop City\" (2010). (Andrew Ross), Tiziana Terranova and others developed a working definition of digital labor, drawing from the idea of free labor, and immaterial labor. Other scholars who have written about Digital Labor include: Ursula Huws, Trebor Scholz, Frank Pasquale, , Christian Fuchs, Andrew Ross, Jaron Lanier, as well as Postcolonial feminists, including, Lisa Nakamura. Their work has been tied to other Alter-globalization texts.\n\nCurrent debate over digital labor examines whether or not society's capitalistic economy has prompted corporate exploitation of digital labor in social media. Social media has developed as a means for people to create and share information and ideas over the Internet. Because social media are typically associated with leisure and entertainment, the monetization of digital labor has blurred the line separating work from entertainment. Proponents argue that exploitation occurs as typical social media users do not receive any monetary compensation for their digital content, while companies are able to take advantage of this freely accessible information to generate revenues. Studies of social media sites such as YouTube have analyzed their business models and found that user-generated digital labor is being monetized through ads and other methods to create company profit. Criticism against exploitation centers around people as prosumers. Scholars argue that exploitation cannot occur if people are both producing and consuming their own digital labor, thereby deriving value from their own created content.\n\nThe digital economy has been written about by both those critical of the contemporary geopolitical net sphere and those interested in how to exploit the new features digital economies.\n\nDigital labor is also interested in emergent digital subcultures including: community forms, blogs, digital organizing tools, and the way these platforms can be potential generators of cultural goods subsumed and incorporated into globalized networks of cultural goods.\n\nDigital labor markets are websites or economies which facilitate the production, trade, and selling of digital content, code, digital products, or other ideas or goods emerging from digital and technological environments. A widely used example of a digital labor market is Amazon Mechanical Turk.\n\nDigital labor has been concerned with the topic of \"disintermediation\", where digital labor has taken away the job of the mediator in direct, social, communication.\n\nThe concept of the digital economy has been applied to the onset of the peer production platform economies, like free and open-source software projects like Linux/GNU, free and open-source projects like Wikipedia. Computer scientist Jaron Lanier, in the books \"You are Not a Gadget\" and \"Who Owns the Future\", argues that the open source approach contributed to the social stratification and widening of the gaps between rich and the poor, the rich being the major stakeholders in digital companies, who own the content of the content creators. A digital labor critique of the open source software movement is that peer production economies rely on an increasingly alienated labor force, forced into unpaid, knowledge labor. In this way, the so-called \"gift economy\" is an essential part of the reproduction of the labor force within late capitalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "208202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208202", "title": "Estates General (France)", "text": "Estates General (France)\n\nIn France under the Old Regime, the Estates General () or States-General was a legislative and consultative assembly (see The Estates) of the different classes (or estates) of French subjects. It had a separate assembly for each of the three estates (clergy, nobility and commoners), which were called and dismissed by the king. It had no true power in its own right—unlike the English parliament it was not required to approve royal taxation or legislation—instead it functioned as an advisory body to the king, primarily by presenting petitions from the various estates and consulting on fiscal policy. The Estates General met intermittently until 1614 and only once afterwards, but was not definitively dissolved until after the French Revolution.\n\nIt is comparable to similar institutions across Europe, such as the States General of the Netherlands, the Parliament of England, the Estates of Parliament of Scotland, the Cortes of Portugal or Spain, the Imperial Diet (\"Reichstag\") of the Holy Roman Empire or Germanic Empire, the Diets () of the \"Lands\", and the Swedish Riksdag of the Estates.\n\nIn 1302, expanding French royal power led to a general assembly consisting of the chief lords, both lay and ecclesiastical, and the representatives of the principal privileged towns, which were like distinct lordships. Certain precedents paved the way for this institution: representatives of principal towns had several times been convoked by the king, and under Philip III there had been assemblies of nobles and ecclesiastics in which the two orders deliberated separately. It was the dispute between Philip the Fair and Pope Boniface VIII which led to the States-General of 1302; the king of France desired that, in addition to the Great Officers of the Crown of France, he receive the counsel from the three estates in this serious crisis. The letters summoning the assembly of 1302 are published by M. Georges Picot in his collection of \"Documents inédits pour servir à l'histoire de France\". During the same reign they were subsequently assembled several times to give him aid by granting subsidies. Over time subsidies came to be the most frequent motive for their convocation.\n\nIn one sense, the composition and powers of the Estates General always remained the same. They always included representatives of the First Estate (clergy), Second Estate (the nobility), and Third Estate (commoners: all others), and monarchs always summoned them either to grant subsidies or to advise the Crown, to give aid and counsel. Their composition, however, as well as their effective powers, varied greatly at different times.\n\nIn their primitive form in the 14th and the first half of the 15th centuries, the Estates General had only a limited elective element. The lay lords and the ecclesiastical lords (bishops and other high clergy) who made up the Estates General were not elected by their peers, but directly chosen and summoned by the king. In the order of the clergy, however, since certain ecclesiastical bodies, e.g. abbeys and chapters of cathedrals, were also summoned to the assembly, and as these bodies, being persons in the moral but not in the physical sense, could not appear in person, their representative had to be chosen by the monks of the convent or the canons of the chapter.\n\nIt was only the representation of the Third Estate which was furnished by election. Originally, the latter was not called upon as a whole to seek representation in the estates. It was only the \"bonnes villes\", the privileged towns, which were called upon. They were represented by elected \"procureurs\", who were frequently the municipal officials of the town, but deputies were often elected for the purpose. The country districts, the \"plat pays\", were not represented. Even within the \"bonnes villes\", the franchise was quite narrow.\n\nIt was during the last thirty years of the 15th century that the Estates General became an entirely elective body and really representative of the whole nation as divided into three parts. This came about through various causes. On the one hand, the nobles and prelates who were summoned were not always inclined to attend the estates, so had themselves represented by an envoy, a \"procureur\", as they had the right to do, and frequently the lords or prelates of the same district chose the same procureur to represent them. On the other hand, the Crown seems at that time to have felt the need of having the consent of representatives really expressing the will and feelings of all the orders, and especially of the Third Estate as a whole. The letters of summons to the Estates General of 1484 invited the ecclesiastics, nobles, and Third Estate to meet at the chief town of their \"bailliage\" or \"sénéchaussé\" and elect deputies. An intermediate form had been employed in 1468 when the prelates and lords had still been summoned personally, but the towns had each elected three deputies, an ecclesiastic, a noble and a burgess.\n\nAt the estates of 1484 there seems to have been universal and direct suffrage for all the three orders. But the \"roturiers\" of the country districts could not in practice avail themselves of this power; so the country communities and small towns spontaneously elected delegates to represent them at the electoral assembly. Thus a system of indirect election arose for the Third Estate which became confirmed and subsequently continued to be used. To a certain extent there were sometimes more than two degrees in the suffrage; the delegates nominated by the country communities would gather together with the electors chosen by the neighbouring little town, and appoint with them new delegates to represent them at the electoral assembly of the \"bailliage\". This ultimately became the system. For the clergy and nobles, the suffrage remained direct; but as a rule only such ecclesiastics were admitted to the assembly of the \"bailliage\" as possessed a benefice, and only such lords as had a fief.\n\nThe effective powers of the Estates General likewise varied over time. In the 14th century they were considerable. The king could not, in theory, levy general taxation. Even in the provinces attached to the domain of the Crown, he could only levy it where he had retained the \"haute justice\" over the inhabitants, but not on the subjects of lords having the \"haute justice\". The privileged towns had generally the right of taxing themselves. To collect general taxes, the king required consent of the lay and ecclesiastical lords, and of the towns. This amounted to needing authorization from the Estates General, which only granted these subsidies temporarily for fairly short periods. As a result, they were summoned frequently and their power over the Crown became considerable.\n\nIn the second half of the 14th century, however, certain royal taxes, levied throughout the Crown's domain, tended to become permanent and independent of the vote of the estates. This sprang from many causes, but from one in particular; the Crown endeavoured by transforming and changing the nature of the \"feudal aid\" to levy a general tax by right, on its own authority, in such cases as those in which a lord could demand feudal aid from his vassals. For instance, it was in this way that the necessary taxes were raised for twenty years to pay the ransom of King John II of France without a vote of the Estates General, although they met several times during this period. Custom confined this tendency. Thus during the second half of the 15th century the chief taxes, the \"taille\", \"aids\" and \"gabelle\" became definitely permanent for the benefit of the Crown, sometimes by the formal consent of the Estates General, as in 1437 in the case of the \"aids\".\n\nThe critical periods of the Hundred Years' War favoured the Estates General, though at the price of great sacrifices. Under the reign of King John II they had controlled, from 1355 to 1358, not only the voting, but through their commissaries, the administration of and jurisdiction over the taxes. In the first half of the reign of Charles VII they had been summoned almost every year and had dutifully voted subsidies. But when the struggle was over they renounced, through weariness and a longing for peace, their most precious right, the power of the purse.\n\nAt the estates of 1484, however, after the death of Louis XI, the Duke of Orleans sought to obtain the regency during the minority of Charles VIII, but the Estates sided with Charles's sister Anne de Beaujeu and refused.\n\nDeputies of the three orders united their efforts in the hope of regaining the right of periodically sanctioning taxation. They voted the \"taille\" for two years only, at the same time reducing it to the amount it had reached at the end of the reign of Charles VII. They even demanded, and obtained, the promise of the Crown that they should be summoned again before the expiration of the two years. But the promise was not kept, and the Estates General were not summoned again until 1560. There was thus a 76-year interim, during which successive kings expanded the role of the centralised state through various means.\n\nThe Estates General was revived in the second half of the 16th century because of scarcity of money and the quarrels and Wars of Religion. The estates of Orléans in 1560, followed by those of Pontoise in 1561, and those of Blois in 1576 and 1588 were most remarkable for the wisdom, courage and efforts of the deputies, but on the whole were lacking in effect. Those of 1588 ended with a regular coup d'etat effected by Henry III, and the States summoned by the League, which sat in Paris in 1593 and whose chief object was to elect a Catholic king, were not a success. The Estates General again met in Paris in 1614, on the occasion of the disturbances that followed the death of Henry IV; however, though their minutes bear witness to their sentiments of exalted patriotism, dissensions between the three orders rendered them weak. They dissolved before completing their work and were not summoned again until 1789.\n\nAs to the question whether the Estates General formed one or three chambers for the purposes of their working, from the constitutional point of view the point was never decided. What the king required was to have the consent, the resolution of the three estates of the realm; it was in reality of little importance to him whether their resolutions expressed themselves in common or separately. At the Estates General of 1484 the elections were made in common for the three orders, and the deputies also arrived at their resolutions in common. But after 1560 the rule was that each order deliberate separately; the royal declaration of 23 June 1789 (at the outbreak of the French Revolution) even stated that they formed three distinct chambers. But Necker's report to the \"conseil du roi\" according to which the convocation of 1789 was decided, said (as did the declaration of 23 June), that on matters of common interest the deputies of the three orders could deliberate together, if each of the others decided by a separate vote in favour of this, and if the king consented.\n\nThe working of the Estates General led to an almost exclusive system of deliberation by committees. There were, it is true, solemn general sessions, called \"séances royales\", because the king presided; but at these there was no discussion. At the first, the king or his chancellor announced the object of the convocation, and set forth the demands or questions put to them by the Crown; at the other royal sessions each order made known its answers or observations by the mouth of an \"orateur\" elected for the purpose. But almost all useful work was done in the \"sections\", among which the deputies of each order were divided. At the estates of 1484 they were divided into six \"nations\" or \"sections\", corresponding to the six \"généralités\" then existing. Subsequently, the deputies belonging to the same \"gouvernement\" formed a group or \"bureau\" for deliberating and voting purposes. Certain questions, however, were discussed and decided in full assembly; sometimes, too, the estates nominated commissaries in equal numbers for each order. But in the ancient Estates General there was never any personal vote. The unit represented for each of the three orders was the \"bailliage\" or \"sénéchaussé\" and each \"bailliage\" had one vote, the majority of the deputies of the \"bailliage\" deciding in what way this vote should be given.\n\nAt the estates of the 16th century voting was by \"gouvernements\", each \"gouvernement\" having one vote, but the majority of the \"bailliages\" composing the \"gouvernement\" decided how it should be given.\n\nThe Estates General, when they gave counsel, had in theory only a consultative faculty. They had the power of granting subsidies, which was the chief and ordinary cause of their convocation. But it had come to be a consent with which the king could dispense, as permanent taxation became established. In the 16th century, however, the estates again claimed that their consent was necessary for the establishment of new taxation, and, on the whole, the facts seemed to be in favour of this view at the time. However, in the course of the 17th century the principle gained recognition that the king could tax on his own sole authority. Thus were established in the second half of the 17th century, and in the 18th, the direct taxes of the \"capitation\" and of the \"dixième\" or \"vingtième\", and many indirect taxes. It was sufficient for the law creating them to be registered by the \"cours des aides\" and the \"parlements\". It was only in 1787 that the \"parlement\" of Paris declared that it could not register the new taxes, the land-tax and stamp duty (\"subvention territoriale\" and \"impôt du timbre\"), as they did not know whether they would be submitted to by the country, and that the consent of the representatives of the tax-payers must be asked.\n\nThe Estates General had legally no share in the legislative power, which belonged to the king alone. The Estates of Blois demanded in 1576 that the king be bound to turn into law any proposition voted in identical terms by each of the three orders; but Henry III would not grant this demand, which would not even have left him a right of veto. In practice, however, the Estates General contributed largely to legislation. Those who sat in them had at all times the right of presenting complaints (\"doléances\"), requests and petitions to the king; in this, indeed, consisted their sole initiative. They were usually answered by an \"ordonnance\", and it is chiefly through these that we are acquainted with the activity of the estates of the 14th and 15th centuries.\n\nIn the latest form, and from the estates of 1484 onwards, this was done by a new and special procedure. The Estates had become an entirely elective assembly, and at the elections (at each step of the election if there were several) the electors drew up a \"cahier de doléances\" (statement of grievances), which they requested the deputies to present. This even appeared to be the most important feature of an election. The deputies of each order in every \"bailliage\" also brought with them a \"cahier des doléances\", arrived at, for the third estate, by a combination of statements drawn up by the primary or secondary electors. On the assembly of the estates the \"cahiers\" of the \"bailliages\" were incorporated into a \"cahier\" for each \"gouvernement\", and these again into a \"cahier general\" or general statement, which was presented to the king, and which he answered in his council. When the three orders deliberated in common, as in 1484, there was only one \"cahier général\"; when they deliberated separately, there were three, one for each order. The drawing up of the \"cahier general\" was looked upon as the main business (\"le grand cause\") of the session.\n\nBy this means the Estates General furnished the material for numerous \"ordonnances\", though the king did not always adopt the propositions contained in the \"cahiers\", and often modified them in forming them into an \"ordonnance\". These latter were the \"ordonnances de reforme\" (reforming ordinances), treating of the most varied subjects, according to the demands of the \"cahiers\". They were not, however, for the most part very well observed. The last of the type was the \"grande ordonnance\" of 1629 (\"Code Michau\"), drawn up in accordance with the \"cahiers\" of 1614 and with the observations of various assemblies of notables that followed them.\n\nThe peculiar power of the Estates General was recognized, but was of a kind that could not often be exercised. It was, essentially, a constituent power. The ancient public law of France contained a number of rules called \"the fundamental laws of the realm\" (\"lois fondamentales du royaume\"), though most of them were purely customary. Chief among these were rules that determined the succession to the Crown and rules forbidding alienation of the domain of the Crown. The king, supreme though his power might be, could not abrogate, modify or infringe them. But it was admitted that he might do so by the consent of the Estates General. The Estates could give the king a dispensation from a fundamental law in a given instance; they could even, in agreement with the king, make new fundamental laws. The Estates of Blois of 1576 and 1588 offer entirely convincing precedents in this respect. It was universally recognized that in the event of the line of Hugh Capet becoming extinct, it would be the function of the States-General to elect a new king.\n\nThe Estates General of 1614 proved the last for over a century and a half. A new convocation had indeed been announced to take place on the majority of Louis XIII, and letters were even issued in view of the elections, but this ended in nothing. Absolute monarchy progressively became definitely established, and appeared incompatible with the institution of the Estates General. Liberal minds, however, in the entourage of Louis, duc de Bourgogne, who were preparing a new plan of government in view of his expected accession to the French throne in succession to Louis XIV, thought of reviving the institution. It figures in the projects of Saint-Simon and Fénelon though the latter would have preferred to begin with an assembly of non-elected notables. But though St Simon stood high in the favor of the regent Orléans, the death of Louis XIV did not see a summoning of the Estates.\n\nAt the time of the revolution, the First Estate comprised 10,000 Catholic clergy and owned 5–10% of the lands in France—the highest per capita of any estate. All property of the First Estate was tax exempt. The Second Estate comprised the nobility, which consisted of 400,000 people at the time, including women and children. Since the death of Louis XIV in 1715, the nobles had enjoyed a resurgence in power. They had almost a monopoly over distinguished government service, higher church offices, army parliaments, and most other public and semipublic honors by the time of the revolution. Like the First Estate, they were not taxed by the principle of feudal precedent. The Third Estate comprised about 25 million people: the bourgeoisie, the peasants, and everyone else in France. Unlike the First and Second Estates, the Third Estate were compelled to pay taxes, but the bourgeoisie found one way or another to be exempt from them. The heavy burden of the French government therefore fell upon the poorest in French society—the peasantry, the working poor, and the farmers. There was much resentment from the Third Estate towards its superiors.\n\nIn 1789, the Estates General was summoned for the first time since 1614. As Fénelon had wished in former days, an Assembly of Notables in 1787 (which already displayed great independence) preceded the Estates General session. According to the model of 1614, the Estates General would consist of equal numbers of representatives of each Estate, but the Third Estate demanded, and ultimately received, double representation, which they already had in the provincial assemblies. When the Estates General convened in Versailles on 5 May 1789, however, it became clear that the double representation was something of a sham: voting was to occur \"by orders\", which meant that the collective vote of the 578 representatives of the Third Estate would be weighed the same as that of each of the other Estates.\n\nRoyal efforts to focus solely on taxes failed totally. The Estates General reached an immediate impasse, debating (with each of the three estates meeting separately) its own structure rather than the nation's finances. On 28 May 1789, Abbé Sieyès moved that the Third Estate, now meeting as the \"Communes\" (), proceed with verification of its own powers and invite the other two estates to take part, but not to wait for them. They proceeded to do so, completing the process on June 17. Then they voted a measure far more radical, declaring themselves the National Assembly, an assembly not of the Estates but of \"the People\". They invited the other orders to join them, but made it clear that they intended to conduct the nation's affairs with or without them.\n\nKing Louis XVI of France tried to resist. When he shut down the Salle des États where the Assembly met, the Assembly moved their deliberations to a nearby tennis court, where they proceeded to swear the Tennis Court Oath (20 June 1789), under which they agreed not to separate until they had given France a constitution. A majority of the representatives of the clergy soon joined them, as did forty-seven members of the nobility. By 27 June the royal party had overtly given in, although the military began to arrive in large numbers around Paris and Versailles. Messages of support for the Assembly poured in from Paris and other French cities. On 9 July the Assembly reconstituted itself as the National Constituent Assembly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12226666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12226666", "title": "FRIACO", "text": "FRIACO\n\nFRIACO stands for Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination. It refers to the unmetered access to dial-up Internet services. Telephone numbers used for such dial-up services are free-phone (or toll-free) numbers, so that the user of the service is not paying for the duration of the call in a metered way. Instead, an ISP (Internet service provider) would make other arrangements to cover costs through fixed subscriptions and/or advertising. The UK Government's regulatory body for communications, Ofcom, dealt with the introduction of FRIACO in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "29901533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29901533", "title": "Groasis Waterboxx", "text": "Groasis Waterboxx\n\nThe Groasis Waterboxx is a device designed to help grow trees in dry areas. It was invented and developed by Dutch former flower exporter Pieter Hoff, and won the Popular Science Green Tech Best of What’s New Innovation of the year award for 2010.\n\nLarge land areas in the world are too dry for trees to survive. Although water may be present in the ground, it is often too deep for small trees to develop a root structure to reach. The Groasing Technology employs biomimicry to solve the problem of growing plants in deserts, eroded areas, badlands and on rocks. The purpose of this technology is to replant such areas, restore the vegetation cover and make them productive with fruit trees and vegetables.\n\nThe Groasis is a polypropylene bucket with a lid. It has a vertical tunnel in the middle for two plants. A wick allows water from inside the box to trickle into the ground via capillary action. The device mimics the insulating effect bird feces provide to germinating seeds. The box's lid is covered by tiny papillae, which create a superhydrophobic surface due to the lotus effect. The lid serves to funnel even the smallest amount of water down siphons into the box's central reservoir.\n\nThe product functions as a plant incubator, sheltering both a newly planted sapling and the ground around it from the heat of the sun, while providing water for the plant. The lid collects water from rain and nighttime condensation, which is then stored in the bucket. The water-filled reservoir releases small amounts (around 50 ml per day) of water into the ground by a wick to water the tree and to encourage the tree to develop a root structure. The box acts as a shield for the water in the upper ground, and this water then spreads down and out instead of being drawn to the surface and evaporated. Both temperature and humidity beneath and inside the box are more stable night and day than without.\n\nAs of 2010, the development has taken 7 years at a cost $7.1 million.\n\nUse of the box initially involves digging a hole in the ground by a human or a machine. One to three plants are planted in the hole, and a cardboard panel is placed around the plants. In dry areas, the soil around the plants is inoculated with mycorrhizae to release nutrients in the soil that would otherwise be chemically inaccessible to the growing plants. A wick is inserted in the bottom of the Groasis which is then lowered over the plants and filled with water. Two lids are put on, funnels inserted and a cap plugs the top lid.\n\nThe box has been testing for the 3 years at Mohamed Premier University in [Morocco] where nearly 90%'s of plants survived with the box compared to 10% without. Apart from projects in warm arid areas, the box is being tested in wineries and cold mountain regions. The device is also being used to grow water-loving trees in temperate regions, including growing giant sequoia (\"Sequoidendron giganteum\") in the Great Lakes region.\n\nThere is a new box from Groasis called Growboxx. It is a recycled paper bucket and should not be removed after a year. The bucket itself becomes food for the tree and will be ten times cheaper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8204112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8204112", "title": "History of the Colombian National Police", "text": "History of the Colombian National Police\n\nThis is the history of the Colombian National Police, for further reading see \"history of Colombia\".\n\nDuring the second half of the 19th century Colombia went through many political changes and struggles to define itself as a nation. Tensions between the two main political parties; Liberals and Conservatives escalated to numerous civil wars trying to establish a political system between federalism or centralism and other major differences.\n\nThe Colombian National Police was established by Law 90 of 1888 to be under government orders and as a dependency of the then Ministry of Government with the intention to function as a Gendarmerie force for Bogotá.\n\nThe new institution was planned to be a force of 300 Gendarmeries divided into three companies; commanded by a Captain, two lieutenants and a second lieutenant, all commanded by two high-ranking officers.\n\nOn October 23, 1890, acting president Carlos Holguín sanctioned into Law the authorization to hire any qualified trainers from the either the United States or Europe to organize and train the newly established National Police. The Colombian officials selected a French Commissioner named Jean Marie Marcelin Gilibert. The institution was formally established by the 1000 of November 5, 1891.\n\nThe National Police initial mission was to preserve public tranquility, protecting people and public and private properties. By constitutional law the institution had to enforce and guarantee the rights of the people, the constitution and its laws and obey their authority. Its function also included the authority to take action to prevent crimes, persecute and arrest infractors. The National Police was intended to not recognize privileges or distinctions among the general population, with the only exception of international treaties established in the Constitution that gave immunity to members of diplomatic missions.\n\nAfter a civil war broke out in 1895 during the presidency of Rafael Núñez, the president went absent and Miguel Antonio Caro took over office temporarily and declared a general state of emergency in which the National Police was transferred to the Ministry of War on January 21, 1896, and its members received same privileges as the military personnel.\n\nWhen aged president Manuel Antonio Sanclemente was replaced by Vice-president José Manuel Marroquín who assumed the presidency, the National Police was restructured and organized in a military manner. It was transferred back to the Ministry of Government and to guarantee the security of Bogotá was divided into seven districts to cover the entire city. A mutual fund called \"Caja de Gratificaciones\" was set up to pay benefits to service members and financed by the penalties imposed to the civilian population. By 1899 the National Police had a 944 agents strong force divided into eight divisions.\n\nWhen the most intense of the civil wars broke out, known as the Thousand Days War (1899–1902), the National Police was once again assigned to the Ministry of War until September 6, 1901. Under the Decree 1380 of September 16, 1902, the National Police created the Presidential Palace Honor Guard Corps with the name \"Guardia Civil de la Ciudad de Bogotá\" (Civil Guard of the City of Bogotá).\n\nDuring the presidency of Rafael Reyes, the government authorized by decree 743 of 1904 the Police was once again transferred to the Ministry of War, with the president micro-managing the institution. By authorization of Law 43 the Judicial Comisary of Police was established under the dependency of the Gereral Command of the National Police to investigate crimes within its jurisdiction.\n\nFrom 1906 to 1909 the government created a cloned institution with similar functions to the National Police named National Gendarmerie Corps (\"Cuerpo de Gendarmeria Nacional\") intended to function descentralized from the National Police command and more militarized regime, managed by the Ministry of War. When General Jorge Holguín suppressed the National Gendarmerie Corps, the province governors were given the authority to organize police service at their own will.\n\nLaw 14 signed on November 4, 1915, defined the National Police functions to \"preserve public tranquility in Bogotá and any other place were needed to execute its functions, protect citizens and aid the constitutional law by enforcing it and the judicial branch of government. The institution was divided into three groups; the first in charge of security and vigilante functions, a second group acting as civil gendarmerie guard with the main function of protecting the postal service and controlling the prison system, the third group functioning as the judicial police. In 1916 the institution was trained by the Spanish Guardia Civil in their doctrine, mainly related to criminology. Two years later the organization was restructured by the Decree 1628 of October 9, 1918, assigning the direction, sub-direction and Inspector General duties to the Colombian Army. Soon thereafter, as authorized by Law 74 of November 19, 1919, Colombia's president hired a French instructor and chief of detectives, expert in the anthropometric system to train the National Police.\n\nIn 1924 the Criminal Investigation School was founded to update personnel working in this area. In 1929 the Colombian government in agreement with the Argentine government, hired Enrique Medina Artola to train the Colombian Police in dactylography to replace the anthropometric system. In 1934 in agreement with the Spanish government the National Police was trained in scientific identification until 1948.\n\nOn July 7, 1937, by the Decree 1277, the government authorized the creation of the General Santader Academy, which began operating in 1940 as an institute for every policemen recruit in the force. In 1939 the Colombian government receives the first cooperation agreement with the United States, through a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) committee headed by agent Edgar K. Thompson.\n\nIn 1948 when the civil unrest known as \"El Bogotazo\" broke out after the assassination of the popular presidential candidate Jorge Eliecer Gaitán the stability of the country was abruptly interrupted generating a period of civil unrest known as La Violencia which lasted for almost a decade. The government then decides to restructure once again the institution with the cooperation and advice from the British. The English mission was integrated by Colonel Douglas Gordon, Colonel Eric M. Roger, Lieutenant Colonel Bertrand W.H. Dyer, Major Frederick H. Abbot and Major William Parham, primarily assisted by Colombian lawyers Rafael Escallón, Timoleón Moncada, Carlos Losano Losano, Jorge and Enrique Gutiérrez Anzola.\n\nBy Decree 0446 of February 14, 1950, the National Police creates the Gonzálo Jiménez de Quesada Non-Commissioned School to train mid-level enlisted under the management of the General Santander National Police Academy.\n\nOn June 13, 1953, Lieutenant General Gustavo Rojas Pinilla seizes power in a coup d'etat assuming functions as President of Colombia. In an attempt to better organize the military forces, President Rojas declares the Decree 1814 of this same day to group the General Command of the Military Forces under the name of General Command of the Armed Forces. Defined the conformation of the Armed Forces by the General Command of the Armed Forces, the Army, Navy, Air Force and Police Force, this last one assigned to the Ministry of War once again as a fourth military power, functioning with its own independent budget and organization from the other branches as established by law. The Ministry of War its later renamed with the name of Ministry of Defense. Many Police Academies were planned and constructed in other cities of Colombia; in 1953 Academies Antonio Nariño in Barranquilla and Alejandro Gutiérrez in Manizales are opened, followed by a social plan for retirement and social security called \"Caja de Sueldos de la Policia Nacional\" by Decree 417 of 1954. The Eduardo Cuevas Academy later opened in 1955 in the city of Villavicencio and in 1958 the Carlos Holguín Academy in Medellín opens. During this year a cooperation mission arrives from Chile to reorganize and train the Carabinier Corps in urban and rural surveillance.\n\nAs established in Law 193 of December 30, 1959, the Colombian nation assumes full financial responsibility of the National Police.\n\nIn 1964 and as mandated by the Decree 349 of February 19 of this same year the Police Superior Academy is founded to endoctrine officers with the rank of Major to the grade of Lieutenant Colonels. By 1977 the institution created the first course for female officers.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s the National Police started facing guerrilla threats which were emerging during these years as a backlash from the political bipartisan struggle of La Violencia years and also the growing problem of contraband and illegal drugs trafficking that also surfaced and the involvement of the United States with the implementation of the Plan LASO as a proxy war plan against the expansion of Communism during the Cold War, the later declaration of the War on Drugs and the Plan Colombia, would eventually help develop the present and ongoing Colombian Armed Conflict involving mainly guerrillas; the FARC-EP including its Patriotic Union Party, ELN, Popular Liberation Army\\EPL, M-19, among many others; The Drug Cartels such as the Medellín Cartel, Cali Cartel, and others; Paramilitarism and the AUC. The Colombian National Police has been fighting against these many threats tainted or involved in some cases of corruption and accusations of human rights violations amid the efforts of the majority of the institution to change its image.\n\nAfter some of its members were accused of being involved in many corruption cases, including guerrilla collaboration, paramilitarism and the cleansing of the leftist Patriotic Union Party, among other cases, the corruption generated by the drug cartels illegal money or other criminal activities, also fueled by the successive weak presidencies, the Colombian National Police became untrusted by the general population of Colombia, the country was facing an intense conflict or a full scale civil war.\nTo prevent this situation the institution began a process of change focusing on reinvigorating the values and principles of the institution mostly led by General Rosso Jose Serrano. Colombia's problems were demanding a strong government with strong institutions to face the numerous violations to the constitution and the population in general. The first steps towards this path was the deputarion process of bad policemen inside the force and targeting the major criminal organizations. The institution also focused on providing better benefits for the Policemen and their families and a particular effort to reinstate the trust of the community on the Police force emphasizing on preventing crime, educating the population and the policemen on cordial relationship, neighbor watch, cooperation with solidarity and community development.\n\nSince 1995 the National Police began to change norms, structures and standard operating procedures, essentially on policemen judgment towards accomplishing missions and emphasizing on those who are willing to work with self-less service, integrity, leadership and vision of improving the population in general.\n\nThe National Police continues to have some corruption and human rights problems but the improvement has been considerably positive including the formation and education of personnel in other countries law enforcement institutions and educational institutions through cooperation agreements. The institution is also highly involved in the Plan Colombia.\n\n"}
{"id": "29949377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29949377", "title": "Impeachment of Warren Hastings", "text": "Impeachment of Warren Hastings\n\nThe impeachment of Warren Hastings was a failed attempt between 1788 and 1795 to impeach the first Governor-General of Bengal in the Parliament of Great Britain. Hastings was accused of misconduct during his time in Calcutta particularly relating to mismanagement and personal corruption. The prosecution was led by Edmund Burke and became a wider debate about the role of the East India Company and the expanding empire in India.\n\nThe trial did not sit continuously and the case dragged on for seven years. When the eventual verdict was given Hastings was overwhelmingly acquitted. It has been described as \"probably the British Isles' most famous, certainly the longest, political trial\".\n\nBorn in 1732, Warren Hastings spent much of his adult life in India after first travelling out as a clerk of the East India Company in 1750. Hastings developed a reputation as an \"Indian\" who sought to use traditional Indian methods of governance to run British India rather than the policy of importing European-style law, government and culture favoured by many of his colleagues and representatives of other colonial powers in India. After working his way through the ranks of the Company he was appointed in 1773 as Governor General, a new position that had been created by the North government in order to improve the running of British India. The old structure of rule had come under strain as the Company's holdings had expanded in recent decades from isolated trading posts to large swathes of territory and population.\n\nThe powers of the Governor General were balanced out by the establishment of a Calcutta Council which had the authority to veto his decisions. Hastings spent much of his time in office marshalling his own supporters on the Council in an effort to avoid being outvoted.\n\nHastings soon ran into opposition on the Council. His principal enemy was the Irish-born politician Philip Francis. Francis developed a strong dislike of Hastings and was convinced that the Governor General's policies were self-serving and destructive. This was a belief shared with some other members of the Council whom he was able to influence. Francis and Hastings' personal rivalry continued for many years and led to a duel between them in 1780 in which Francis was wounded, but not killed. Francis returned to Britain in 1781 and began raising questions about Hastings' conduct. He found support from many leading opposition Whigs.\n\nIn 1780 Hyder Ali, the ruler of Mysore, went to war with the company after British forces captured the French-controlled port of Mahé. Taking advantage of Britain's involvement in the American War of Independence and the support of French forces Hyder went on the offensive and enjoyed success during the opening stages of the war, inflicting a serious defeat at the Battle of Pollilur and at one point threatening Madras itself with capture. The Commander in Chief Eyre Coote went south with reinforcements and defeated Hyder's army in a series of battles which helped to steady the position in the Carnatic. Hyder was unable to secure victory and the war ended in a stalemate. It was halted by the Treaty of Mangalore in 1784 which largely restored the status quo ante bellum. Even so, the British position in India had been severely threatened.\n\nThe war shook public confidence and raised questions about the supposed mismanagement by the Company's agents in India. It proved to be a catalyst for the growing campaign in London against Hastings which gathered strength during the ensuing years.\n\nThe Company had already gone through scandals in the 1760s and 1770s and the wealthy nabobs who returned to Britain from India were widely unpopular. Against this backdrop the criticisms circulated by Francis and others provoked a general consensus that the 1773 India Act hadn't been sufficient to rein in the alleged excesses. The Indian question again became a contentious political issue.\nThe Fox–North Coalition fell from power after it attempted to bring in a radical East India Bill in 1783. The following year the new government of William Pitt passed an India Act of 1784 which established a Board of Control and which finally stabilised the governance of India.\n\nHastings was personally attacked by Charles James Fox during the presentation of his India Bill. When Pitt introduced his Bill he failed to mention Hastings at all, seen as expressing a lack of confidence, and made wide-ranging criticisms of the Company. He suggested that recent wars in India had been ruinous and unnecessary. Hastings was particularly upset by this, as he was an admirer of Pitt. By now, Hastings wished to resign and return home unless the role of Governor General was given greater freedom to exercise power—which was unlikely to be granted him. He handed over to an Acting Governor General, John MacPherson until a permanent replacement was appointed.\n\nHastings sailed for home on 6 February and reached Britain in June 1785. During the voyage he wrote a defence of his conduct \"The State of Bengal\" and presented it to Henry Dundas. Hastings anticipated he would face attacks in Parliament and the press but expected them to be short-lived and to fall away once he was there in person to defend himself. Initially this proved to be the case as he enjoyed an audience with King George III and a unanimous vote of thanks by the directors of the East India Company. Hastings even hoped to be awarded an Irish peerage. However, in Parliament Edmund Burke announced he \"would at a future date make a motion respecting the conduct of a gentleman just returned from India\".\n\nIn early 1786 Burke began his first move by raising questions over Hastings' role in the Maratha War. The attacks on Hastings were largely made by opposition Whigs hoping to embarrass the government of William Pitt. Pitt and other government ministers such as Dundas defended Hastings and suggested that he had saved the British Empire in Asia. Philip Francis made eleven specific charges against Hastings, and others later followed. They covered various subjects such as the Rohilla War, execution of Nanda-Kumar and Hastings' treatment of the Rajas of Benares. Pitt broadly defended Hastings, but declared his punishment of the Rajah had been excessive. In the wake of this an anti-Hastings motion was passed in the Commons 119–79.\n\nEncouraged by Pitt's failure to adequately support Hastings, his opponents pressed on with their campaign. The situation quickly deteriorated for Hastings. It soon became clear that he was heading towards an impeachment. Hastings recruited Edward Law, 1st Baron Ellenborough to act in his defence. On 21 May 1787 Hastings was arrested by the Serjeant-at-Arms and taken to the House of Lords to hear the charges against him.\n\nHastings was to be prosecuted in the House of Lords by an Impeachment Committee. Impeachment was a relatively rare process of prosecuting those in high public office. Previous figures who had faced such trials included the Duke of Buckingham, a favourite of James I, and the Earl of Strafford, whose impeachment failed (but was followed up by a legislative bill of attainder that resulted in Strafford's execution).\n\nHastings' trial began on 13 February 1788 and took place in Westminster Hall with members of the House of Commons seated to his right and the Lords to his left and a large audience of spectators, including royalty, in the boxes and public galleries. The proceedings began with a lengthy address by Edmund Burke, who took four days to cover all the charges against Hastings. Burke took the\nproceedings very seriously but, we have it from Macaulay, for many spectators the trial resembled a social event. Hastings himself remarked that “for the first half hour, I looked up to the orator in a reverie of wonder, and during that time I felt myself the most culpable man on earth.”\n\nHastings was granted bail in spite of Burke's suggestion that he might flee the country with the wealth he had allegedly stolen from India. Further speeches were made over the coming weeks by other leading Whigs such as Richard Brinsley Sheridan and Charles James Fox. In total there were nineteen members of the Impeachment Committee.\n\nIn spite of the early excitement about the trial public interest in it began to wane as it dragged on over months and years. Other major events dominated the news particularly once the French Revolution began in 1789. Sheridan now complained he was \"heartily tired of the Hastings trial\" despite being one of its instigators. As the trial progressed, public attitudes about Hastings also began to shift. Hastings had initially been overwhelmingly portrayed as guilty in the popular press, but doubts were increasingly raised. Increased support for Hastings may have been a result of declining perceptions of his accusers. In a cartoon James Gillray portrayed Hastings as the \"Saviour of India\" being assaulted by bandits resembling Burke and Fox.\n\nA major lift for the defence came with the testimony on 9 April 1794 of Lord Cornwallis who had recently returned from India, where he succeeded Hastings as Governor General. Cornwallis rejected the accusations that Hastings' actions had damaged Britain's reputation and observed that Hastings was universally popular with the inhabitants. When asked if he had \"found any just cause to impeach the character of Mr Hastings?\" he replied \"never\". \n\nA further blow for the prosecution came with the evidence of William Larkins the former Accountant General of Bengal. They had rested their hopes on his revealing widespread corruption but he denied that Hastings had amassed any illicit money and made a defence of his conduct. Various other figures came forwards as character witnesses to support Hastings. Burke's reply to the defence lasted nine days from late May to mid-June 1794.\n\nOn 23 April 1795 the Lord Chancellor Lord Loughborough oversaw the delivery of the verdict. A third of the Lords who had attended the trial's opening had since died and only twenty-nine of the others had sat through enough of the evidence to be permitted to pronounce judgement. Loughborough asked each of the peers sixteen questions relating to individual charges. On most charges he was unanimously found not guilty. On three questions five or six peers gave guilty verdicts, but Hastings was still comfortably cleared by majority vote. This overwhelming verdict had been expected for some time and caused little surprise.\n\nBurke, who had invested a large amount of time and energy into the prosecution, was frustrated by the ultimate failure of the impeachment. He had warned the Lords that it would be \"to the perpetual infamy\" of the House if they voted to acquit and remained convinced of Hastings' guilt until his death in 1797.\n\nHastings was financially ruined by the impeachment and was left with debts of £70,000. Unlike many other Indian officials he had not amassed a large fortune while in India and he had to fund his legal defence, which had cost an estimated £71,000, out of his own funds. His defence lawyer was Richard Shaw(e) who built his mansion Casino House in Herne Hill at least in part from the proceeds, employing John Nash and Humphry Repton as landscape designer (responsible for the water garden the remnants of which survive as Sunray Gardens in 2012).\n\nMeanwhile, Hastings appealed to the British government for financial assistance and was eventually compensated by the East India Company with a loan of £50,000 and a pension of £4,000 a year.\n\nAlthough this did not solve all his financial worries, Hastings was ultimately able to fulfill his lifelong ambition of purchasing the family's traditional estate of Daylesford in Gloucestershire which had been lost in a previous generation. Hastings held no further public office, but was regarded as an expert on Indian matters and was asked to give evidence to parliament on the subject in 1812. After he had finished giving his testimony, the members all stood up in an almost unprecedented act for anyone other than the royal family.\n\nHastings' successors as Governor General, beginning with Lord Cornwallis, were granted the much wider powers that Hastings had sought while in Calcutta. Pitt's India Act served to move much of the supervisory role for India away from the East India Company directors and officials in Leadenhall Street to a new political Board of Control based in London.\n\nThe overwhelming failure to secure a conviction, and the stream of testimony that came out of India praising him, have led commentators to ask why Hastings, who appeared to many observers to have given dedicated service to the company and to have curbed its worst excesses, ended up being prosecuted in the first place. A number of factors may have played a part, including partisan politics, although Pitt joined the opposition in supporting the Impeachment.\n\nThere has been particular focus on the role played by Pitt — particularly his sudden withdrawal of outright support for Hastings in 1786 which galvanised the opposition into pursuing the case. It is possible that Pitt believed \"he ran the very genuine risk of being accused by the opposition of shielding a notorious criminal from justice, for political reasons\". Henry Dundas was himself later impeached in 1806 and acquitted in the final ever impeachment in Britain.\n\n"}
{"id": "38847777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38847777", "title": "Internal Security Act, 1982", "text": "Internal Security Act, 1982\n\nThe Internal Security Act, 1982 (Act No. 74 of 1982) was an act of the Parliament of South Africa that consolidated and replaced various earlier pieces of security legislation, including the Suppression of Communism Act, parts of the Riotous Assemblies Act, the Unlawful Organizations Act and the Terrorism Act. It gave the apartheid government broad powers to ban or restrict organizations, publications, people and public gatherings, and to detain people without trial. The act was passed in consequence of the recommendations of the Rabie Commission which enquired into the state of security legislation. Most of the act was progressively repealed during the transitional period between 1990 and 1996, with the last remaining sections repealed in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "18152714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18152714", "title": "Ipse dixit", "text": "Ipse dixit\n\nIpse dixit (Latin for \"he said it himself\") is an assertion without proof; or a dogmatic expression of opinion. \n\nThe fallacy of defending a proposition by baldly asserting that it is \"just how it is\" distorts the argument by opting out of it entirely: the claimant declares an issue to be intrinsic, and not changeable.\n\nThe Latin form of the expression comes from the Roman orator and philosopher Marcus Tullius Cicero (106–43 BC) in his theological studies \"De Natura Deorum\" (\"On the Nature of the Gods\") and is his translation of the Greek expression (with the identical meaning) αὐτὸς ἔφα (\"autòs épha\"), an argument from authority made by the disciples of Pythagoras when appealing to the pronouncements of the master rather than to reason or evidence.\n\nBefore the early 17th century, scholars applied the \"ipse dixit\" term to justify their subject-matter arguments if the arguments previously had been used by the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle (384–322 BC).\n\nIn the late 18th century, Jeremy Bentham adapted the term \"ipse dixit\" into the word \"ipse-dixitism.\" Bentham coined the term to apply to all non-utilitarian political arguments.\n\nIn modern legal and administrative decisions, the term \"ipse dixit\" has generally been used as a criticism of arguments based solely upon the authority of an individual or organization. For example, in \"National Tire Dealers & Retreaders Association, Inc. v. Brinegar,\" 491 F.2d 31, 40 (D.C. Cir. 1974), Circuit Judge Wilkey considered that the Secretary of Transportation's \"statement of the reasons for his conclusion that the requirements are practicable is not so inherently plausible that the court can accept it on the agency's mere \"ipse dixit\"\". \n\nIn 1997, the U.S. Supreme Court recognized the problem of \"opinion evidence which is connected to existing data only by the \"ipse dixit\" of an expert\". Likewise, the Texas Supreme Court has held \"a claim will not stand or fall on the mere \"ipse dixit\" of a credentialed witness\". \n\nIn 1858, Abraham Lincoln said in his speech at Freeport, Illinois, at the second joint debate with Douglas:\n\nI pass one or two points I have because my time will very soon expire, but I must be allowed to say that Judge Douglas recurs again, as he did upon one or two other occasions, to the enormity of Lincoln,—an insignificant individual like Lincoln,— upon his \"ipse dixit\" charging a conspiracy upon a large number of members of Congress, the Supreme Court, and two Presidents, to nationalize slavery. I want to say that, in the first place, I have made no charge of any sort upon my \"ipse dixit\". I have only arrayed the evidence tending to prove it, and presented it to the understanding of others, saying what I think it proves, but giving you the means of judging whether it proves it or not. This is precisely what I have done. I have not placed it upon my \"ipse dixit\" at all.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12441704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12441704", "title": "Israeli land and property laws", "text": "Israeli land and property laws\n\nLand and property laws in Israel are the property law component of Israeli law, providing the legal framework for the ownership and other \"in rem\" rights towards all forms of property in Israel, including real estate (land) and movable property. Besides tangible property, economic rights are also usually treated as property, in addition to being covered by the law of obligations.\n\nIsrael came into existence on 14 May 1948 with its Declaration of Independence. The Provisional State Council's first legislative act was the \"Law and Administration Ordinance of 1948\", a reception statute. The act adopted all existing laws \"with such modifications as may result from establishment of the State or its authorities.\" In respect of land law matters, Ottoman laws, as had been modified by British land law during the Mandate period, continued to apply. Most of these laws have been repealed by the last quarter of the 20th century.\n\nOver time, a modern set of codificative statutes have been enacted. These are mostly a codification of common law norms, albeit with a notable continental influence. Chief among these are the Land Law, 1969 and the Movable Property Law, 1971. They are joined by a multitude of other legislative acts pertaining to property law, in addition to a highly detailed body of case law by the Supreme Court and lower courts. Some of the main tenets of Israeli property law are:\n\nIn 1945, of the 26.4 million dunams (26,400 km²) of land in Mandatory Palestine, 12.8 million was either owned or held in indefinite lease by Arabs, 1.5 million by Jews, 1.5 million was public land and 10.6 million constituted the desertic Beersheba district (Negev). Of the 9.2 million dunams of land that was arable, 7.8 million dunams was owned by Arabs, 1.2 million by Jews and 0.2 million was public land. By 1949, some 700,000 Palestinian Arabs had fled or been expelled from their lands and villages. Israel was now in control of some 20.5 million dunams (approx. 20,500 km²) or 78% of lands in what had been Mandatory Palestine: 8% (approx. 1,650 km²) were privately controlled by Jews, 6% (approx. 1,300 km²) by Arabs, with the remaining 86% being public land. Land laws were passed to legalize changes to land ownership.\n\nAs at 2007, the Israel Land Administration (ILA), which was established in 1960, manages 93% of Israel's land comprising 19,508 km² under the following laws and land policy. The remaining 7% of land is either privately owned or under the protection of religious authorities.\n\n\n13 percent of Israel's land belongs to the Jewish National Fund, which is managed by the ILA.\n\nUse of land in Israel usually means leasing rights from the ILA for a period of 49 or 98 years. Under Israeli law, the ILA cannot lease land to foreign nationals, which includes Palestinian residents of Jerusalem who have identity cards but are not citizens of Israel. In practice, foreigners may be allowed to lease if they show that they would qualify as Jewish under the Law of Return.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire embarked on a systematic land reform program in the second half of the 19th century. Two of the new laws were the 1858 land registration law and the 1873 land emancipation act. Prior to 1858, land in Palestine, then a part of the Ottoman Empire since 1516, was cultivated or occupied mainly by peasants. Land ownership was regulated by people living on the land according to customs and traditions. Usually, land was communally owned by village residents, though land could be owned by individuals or families.\n\n\"The Ottoman Land Code of 1858\" required land owners to register ownership. The reasons behind the law were twofold: (1) to increase tax revenue, and (2) to enable the government exercise greater state control over the area. However, many peasants did not register their claims, for several reasons: for example, land owners were subject to military service in the Ottoman Army, there was general opposition to official regulations from the Ottoman Empire, and to evade payment of taxes and registration fees to the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe registration process itself was open to falsification and manipulation. Land collectively owned by village residents ended up being registered to one villager, and merchants and local Ottoman administrators took the opportunity to register large areas of land in their own name. The result was that land became registered to people who had never lived on the land; while the peasants, having lived there for generations, retained possession, but became tenants of absentee owners.\n\nThe 1873 land emancipation act gave Jews the right to own land in Palestine under their own name. This 1873 secular land reform/civil rights law was popularly confused with a religious law and it was held as a \"humiliation to Islam that Jews should own a part of the Muslim Ummah\". The confusion between religious and secular law made the laws (ended in 1873) against Jewish ownership of land 'religious laws'.\n\nOver the course of the next decades land became increasingly concentrated on fewer hands; the peasants continued to work on the land, giving landlords a share of the harvest. This led to both an increased level of Palestinian nationalism as well as civil unrest. At the same time, the area witnessed an increased flow of Jewish immigrants who did not restrict themselves to the cities where their concentration offered some protection from persecution. These Jews came hoping to create a new future in what they regarded as the homeland of their ancestors. Organizations created to aid Jewish settlement in Palestine bought land from Arab and absentee landowners.\n\nWorld War I and the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire led to British control over the area in 1917, followed by the creation of the Mandate for Palestine by the League of Nations in 1922, which remained in effect until the establishment of Israel in 1948. During this period several new land laws were introduced, including \"The Land Transfer Ordinance\" of 1920, \"The Correction of Land Registers Ordinance\" of 1926 and \"The Land Settlement Ordinance\" of 1928.\n\nIt was the policy of the Zionist Organisation to encourage Jewish acquisition of land in Palestine for Jewish settlement. For that purpose, the Fifth Zionist Congress (1901) set up the JNF to buy suitable land. The rules of the JNF forbade it from selling the land it acquired, but to lease it. Land owned by the JNF was leased to kibbutzim and other Jewish settlements on long-term leases. At the end of 1935, JNF held 89,500 acres (362 km²) of land housing 108 Jewish communities. In 1939, 10% of the Jewish population of the British Mandate of Palestine lived on JNF land. JNF holdings by the end of the British Mandate period amounted to 936 km². By 1948, the JNF owned 54% of the land held by Jews in the region, or a bit less than 4% of the land in Palestine (excluding Transjordan).\n\nFrom 1936, the British administration introduced a series of land regulations: The Land Transfer Regulations of 1940 divided the country into zones, with different restrictions on land sales in each. As summarized by the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry in 1946,\nIn Zone A, consisting of about 63 percent of the country including the stony hills, land transfers save to a Palestinian Arab were in general forbidden. In Zone B. consisting of about 32 percent of the country, transfers from a Palestinian Arab save to another Palestinian Arab were severely restricted at the discretion of the High Commissioner. In the remainder of Palestine, consisting of about five percent of the country-which, however, includes the most fertile areas- land sales remained unrestricted. The Inquiry recommended the repeal of the Regulations, without effect.\n\nAfter the Israel's declaration of independence on 14 May 1948, state lands of the Mandate reverted to the State of Israel. In addition, property left by Arab refugees passed into the control of the new Israeli government. The newly formed Israeli ministries, committees and departments took over functions performed earlier by ‘National Institutions’. One of the first steps adopted by the new state was the reactivation of the \"Defence [Emergency] Regulations\" adopted earlier by the British in 1939 (and later repealed). Since British regulations had applied to the whole country, the Government of Israel passed the \"Law and Administration Ordinance [Amendment] Law [1948]\" to reverse the British repeal and reinstate these \"Emergency Regulations\". Some of this land was sold by the government to the JNF, which had developed expertise in reclaiming and developing waste and barren lands and making them productive.\n\nIn 1960, under \"Basic Law: Israel Lands\", JNF-owned land and government-owned land were together defined as \"Israel lands,\" and the principle was laid down that such land would be leased rather than sold. The JNF retained ownership of its land, but administrative responsibility for the JNF land and government-owned land, passed to a newly created agency called the Israel Land Administration or ILA. The lease principle is hardly new to the area however as it was practiced for centuries under the Ottoman tapu system. To this day, the Land Registration Office is commonly known in Israel as the \"tabu\", the Arabic pronunciation of the Turkish \"tapu\".\n\nThe proclamation repealed the White Paper of 1939 and sections 13 and 15 of the \"Immigration Ordinance of 1941\".\n\nIt also repealed the \"Land Transfer Regulations of 1940\" retroactively to 18 May 1939, invalidating transactions conducted since then.\n\n defined the competences and composition of the Provisional Government. The law repealed sections 13 to 15 of the \"1941 Immigration Ordinance\" and regulations 102 to 107C of the \"1945 Defence (Emergency) Regulations\", in order to allow Jews who entered the country illegally under Mandate to remain as legal immigrants. The \"1940 Land Transfers Regulations\" were repealed retroactively from 18 May 1939, to allow unregistered transfers to be filed. In 1967, the law was used for \"de facto\" annexation of East Jerusalem.\n\nAfter the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the \"Area of Jurisdiction and Powers Ordinance\", 5708-1948, extended Israeli land laws to \"any part of Palestine which the Minister of Defence has defined by proclamation as being held by the Defence Army of Israel\" Article 3 of the law made it retroactive and effective from 15 May 1948, the day after the declaration of the establishment of the State of Israel.\n\n (published 30 June 1948, effective retroactively from 16 May 1948) defined an \"abandoned area\" as \"any area or place conquered by or surrendered to armed forces or deserted by all or part of its inhabitants, and which has been declared by order to be an abandoned area\". The Ordinance also provided for regulating \"the expropriation and confiscation of movable and immovable property, within any abandoned area\". The government was authorised to determine what would be done with this property.\n\nArticle 125 states:\nAccording to Kirshbaum, the law was used to exclude a land owner from his own land so that it could be expropriated under the \"Land Acquisition (Validation of Acts and Compensation) Law (1953)\".\n\nAccording to the Journal of Palestine Studies, the law designated an area as \"security zone\" which meant that no one could\npermanently live in, enter, or be in said zone. According to COHRE and BADIL (p. 40), \"this measure was used extensively in various parts of the country, including areas in the Galilee, near the Gaza Strip and close to the borders. Lands so acquired would often be sold to the JNF. These regulations remained in place until 1972.\"\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 40) this law was originally enacted in 1948 and amended in 1951 as the \"Emergency Regulations (Cultivation of Waste Lands) Law, 5711-1951\". This law authorises the Ministry of Agriculture to declare lands as ‘waste’ lands (Article 2) and to take control over ‘uncultivated’ lands (Article 4). Article 2 states:The Minister of Agriculture may warn the owner of waste land to cultivate the land or to ensure-that it is cultivated.\nArticle 4 reads:If the owner of the waste land does not apply to the Minister of Agriculture as specified in regulation 3, or if the Minister of Agriculture is not satisfied that the owner of the land has begun or is about to begin or will continue to cultivate the land, the Minister of Agriculture may assume control of the land in order to ensure its cultivation.\n\nCOHRE and BADIL (p. 40) consider that \"this law operated in conjunction with other laws including those declaring ‘security areas’. Once\npeople (Arabs) were barred from their lands, these could be defined as ‘uncultivated’ and seized\".\n\nThis law repeals the earlier \"Emergency Regulations (Requisition of Property) Law, 5709-1948\". The law authorises the requisition of land when (Article 3): ...the making of the order is necessary for the defence of the state, public security, the maintenance of essential supplies or essential public services, the absorption of immigrants or the rehabilitation of ex-soldiers or war invalids.\nThe law includes clauses concerning the requisition of houses (chapter three), and states (Article 22b) that:A competent authority may use force to the extent required for the carrying into effect of an order made by a competent authority or a decision given by an appeal committee under this Law.\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 41), \"the law retroactively legalised land and housing requisitions that were carried out under existing emergency regulations. The law was amended in 1952 and 1953. A 1955 amendment, \"Land Requisition Regulation (Temporary Provision) Law, 5715- 1955\", allows the Government to retain property seized under the law for longer than the three years originally specified. Along with a later (1957) amendment, the law also specified that any property held after 1956 would be determined to have\nbeen acquired on the basis of the British \"Land (Acquisition for Public Purposes) Ordinance of 1943\".\n\n‘Absentees’ property’ laws were several laws which were first introduced as emergency ordinances issued by the Jewish leadership but which after the war were incorporated into the laws of Israel. As examples of the first type of laws are the \"Emergency Regulations (Absentees’ Property) Law, 5709-1948 (December)\" which according to article 37 of the \"Absentees Property Law, 5710-1950\" was replaced by the latter; the \"Emergency Regulations (Requisition of Property) Law, 5709-1949\", and other related laws.\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 41), unlike other laws that were designed to establish Israel’s legal control over lands, this body of law focused on formulating a legal definition for the people (mostly Arabs) who had left or been forced to flee from these lands. Specific laws in this category include:\n\nAs a result, two million dunams were confiscated and given to the custodian, who later transferred the land to the development authority. This law created the novel citizenship category of \"present absentees\" (nifkadim nohahim), persons present at the time but considered absent for the purpose of the law. These Israeli Arabs enjoyed all civil rights-including the right to vote in the Knesset elections-except one: the right to use and dispose of their property. About 30,000-35,000 Palestinians became \"present absentees\".\n\nAccording to Simha Flapan, \"a detailed account of exactly how abandoned Arab property assisted in the absorption of the new immigrants was prepared by Joseph Schechtman\":\n\nIt is difficult to overestimate the tremendous role this lot of abandoned Arab property has played in the settlement of hundreds of thousands of Jewish immigrants who have reached Israel since the proclamation of the state in May 1948. Forty-seven new rural settlements established on the sites of abandoned Arab villages had by October 1949 already absorbed 25,255 new immigrants. By the spring of 1950 over 1 million dunams had been leased by the custodian to Jewish settlements and individual farmers for the raising of grain crops.\n\nLarge tracts of land belonging to Arab absentees have also been leased to Jewish settlers, old and new, for the raising of vegetables. In the south alone, 15,000 dunams of vineyards and fruit trees have been leased to cooperative settlements; a similar area has been rented by the Yemenites Association, the Farmers Association, and the Soldiers Settlement and Rehabilitation Board. This has saved the Jewish Agency and the government millions of dollars. While the average cost of establishing an immigrant family in a new settlement was from $7,500 to $9,000, the cost in abandoned Arab villages did not exceed $1,500 ($750 for building repairs and $750 for livestock and equipment).\n\nAbandoned Arab dwellings in towns have also not remained empty. By the end of July 1948, 170,000 people, notably new immigrants and ex-soldiers, in addition to about 40,000 former tenants, both Jewish and Arab, had been housed in premises under the custodian's control; and 7,000 shops, workshops and stores were sublet to new arrivals. The existence of these Arab houses-vacant and ready for occupation-has, to a large extent, solved the greatest immediate problem which faced the Israeli authorities in the absorption of immigrants. It also considerably relieved the financial burden of absorption.\n\nHow much of Israel's territory consists of land confiscated with the Absentee Property Law is uncertain and much disputed. Robert Fisk interviewed the Israeli Custodian of Absentee Property, who estimates this could amount to up to 70% of the territory of Israel, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip:\n\nThe Jewish Virtual Library, estimates that Custodial and Absentee land comprises 12% of Israel's total territory.\n\nThe Jewish National Fund, from \"Jewish Villages in Israel\", 1949:\n\nOf the entire area of the State of Israel only about 300,000-400,000 dunums -- apart from the desolate rocky area of the southern Negev, at present quite unfit for cultivation -- are State Domain which the Israeli Government took over from the Mandatory regime. The J.N.F. and private Jewish owners possess under two million dunums. Almost all the rest belongs at law to Arab owners, many of whom have left the country. The fate of these Arabs will be settled when the terms of the peace treaties between Israel and her Arab neighbours are finally drawn up. The J.N.F., however, cannot wait until then to obtain the land it requires for its pressing needs. It is, therefore, acquiring part of the land abandoned by the Arab owners, through the Government of Israel, the sovereign authority in Israel.\n\nWhatever the ultimate fate of the Arabs concerned, it is manifest that their legal right to their land and property in Israel, or to the monetary value of them, will not be waived, nor do the Jews wish to ignore them. ... [C]onquest by force of arms cannot, in law or in ethics, abrogate the rights of the legal owner to his personal property. The J.N.F., therefore, will pay for the lands it takes over, at a fixed and fair price.\n\nThe absentee property played an enormous role in making Israel a viable state. In 1954, more than one third of Israel's Jewish population lived on absentee property and nearly a third of the new immigrants (250,000 people) settled in urban areas abandoned by Arabs. Of 370 new Jewish settlements established between 1948 and 1953, 350 were on absentee property (Peretz, \"Israel and the Palestinian Arabs\", 1958).\n\nThis law replaced the \"Emergency Regulations (Absentees’ Property) Law, 5709-1948\". According to Sabri Jiryis (p. 84), the definition of \"absentee\" in the law was framed in such a way as to ensure that it applied to every Palestinian or resident in Palestine who had left his usual place of residence in Palestine for any place inside or outside the country after the adoption of the partition of Palestine resolution by the UN. Article 1(b) states that \"absentee\" means:\n\n\"absentee\" means -<br>\n(1) a person who, at any time during the period between the 16th Kislev, 5708 (29th November, 1947) and the day on which a declaration is published, under section 9(d) of the Law and Administration Ordinance, 5708-1948(1), that the state of emergency declared by the Provisional Council of State on the 10th Iyar, 5708 (19th May, 1948)<br>\n(2) has ceased to exist, was a legal owner of any property situated in the area of Israel or enjoyed or held it, whether by himself or through another, and who, at any time during the said period -<br>\n(2) a body of persons which, at any time during the period specified in paragraph (1), was a legal owner of any property situated in the area of Israel or enjoyed or held such property, whether by itself or through another, and all the members, partners, shareholders, directors or managers of which are absentees within the meaning of paragraph (1), or the management of the business of which is otherwise decisively controlled by such absentees, or all the capital of which is in the hands of such absentees;\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 41), the provisions in the law made sure that the term 'person' did not apply to Jews. The law also applied to Arabs who had become citizens of the State of Israel but were not in their usual place of residence as defined by the law. In this case, they were referred to as 'present absentees' and many lost their lands.\n\nThe Law then appointed a Custodianship Council for Absentees' Property, whose president was to be known as the Custodian of Absentees' Property (Article 2). The law then made these properties the legal holdings of the Custodian. According to Art. 4.(a)(2):\n\nevery right an absentee had in any property shall pass automatically to the Custodian at the time of the vesting of the property; and the status of the Custodian shall be the same as was that of the owner of the property.\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 41), those who were found to occupy property in violation of this law could be expelled, and those who built on such property could have their structures demolished. The law came to apply not only to Palestinians who fled but\nalso to those who were away from their regular places of residence (as described in the previous paragraph).\n\nAccording to the \"Israel Government Yearbook, 5719 (1958)\" (p. 235), the \"village properties\" of absentee Arabs \"which was appropriated by the Custodian of Absentees' Property\" included \"[the land of] some 350 completely abandoned or semi-abandoned [Arab] villages, the aggregate area of which was about three-quarters of a million dunums ... Among the agricultural properties were 80,000 dunums of abandoned groves... [and] more than 200,000 dunums of plantations were taken over by the custodian. \"It was estimated that \"the urban properties ... include[d] 25,416 buildings in which there are 57,497 dwellings and 10,727 business and trade premises.\"\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 41), \"estimates of the total amount of ‘abandoned’ lands to which Israel laid claim vary between 4.2 and 5.8 million dunum (4 200-5 800 km²). Between 1948 and 1953 alone, 350 of the 370 new Jewish settlements were created on lands confiscated under the Absentees’ Property Law.\"\n\nThe Absentees’ Property Law underwent several amendments, including:\nBoth amendments clarifying rental arrangements and tenant protection rights on such property.\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 42), the Government of Israel did not automatically gain title to lands seized under the Absentees’ Property Law. This was accomplished under the \"Land Acquisition (Validation of Acts and Compensation) Law, 5713-1953\".\nThis law legalised expropriations (retroactively in many cases) for military purposes or for the establishment of (Jewish)\nsettlements.\n\nThe law allows the Government to claim the property of lands which are not in the possession of its owner as of 1 April 1952. Article 2 (a) states:\n\nProperty in respect of which the Minister certifies by certificate under his hand--\n\nThe further states the monetary compensation for those losing their lands and that in the case were the lands corresponded to agricultural lands, where those lands formed their main source of livelihood, lands elsewhere would be offered. Article 3 reads:\n\n(a) The owners of acquired property are entitled to compensation therefore from the Development Authority. The compensation shall be given in money, unless otherwise agreed between the owners and the Development Authority. The amount of compensation shall be fixed by agreement between the Development Authority and the owners or, in the absence of agreement, by the Court, as hereinafter provided.<br>\n(b) Where the acquired property was used for agriculture and was the main source of livelihood of its owner, and he has no other land sufficient for his livelihood, the Development Authority shall, on his demand, offer him other property, either for ownership or for lease, as full or partial compensation. A competent authority, to be appointed for this purpose by the Minister, shall, in accordance with rules to be prescribed by regulations, determine the category, location, area, and, in the case of lease, period of lease (not less than 49 years) and the value of the offered property, both for the purpose of calculating the compensation and for determination of the sufficiency of such property for a livelihood.<br>\n(c) The provisions of subsection (b) shall add to, and not derogate from, the provisions of subsection (a).\n\nAccording to Alexandre Kedar (p. 153), until 1959, compensation was calculated on the basis of the 1950 land values. The author cites a 1965 ILA report which shows that over 1.2 million dunum (about 1 200 km²) of Arab land were taken in this manner.\n\nThis law extends the scope of the Absentees' Property Law and earlier regulations concerning the Muslim religious endowment, the Waqf. Article 29A (c) states:\n\nFor the purposes of this section and of sections 29B to 29H, \"endowment property\" means Muslim waqf property being immovable property validly dedicated.\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 41), it allows the Government to confiscate vast amounts of Muslim (charity) land and other properties, including cemeteries and mosques, and place them under Government administration. According to the law, income from these properties would be used in part to build institutions and provide services for the Muslim inhabitants in areas where such property is located. The law amends the 1950 law in the following way:\n\nIn section 4 of the Absentees' Property Law, 5710-1950(1) (hereinafter referred to as \"the principal Law\"), the following subsection shall be inserted after subsection (a):<br>\n(b) This section shall have effect retroactively as from the date of the coming into force of the principal Law.\n\nAccording to Meron Benvenisti:\n\n\"Most Waqf property in Israel was expropriated under the Absentee proberty Law (giving rise to the sarcastic quip -\"Apparently God is an absentee [in Israel]\") and afterward handed over to the Development Authority, ostensibly because this was necessary to prevent its being neglected, but actually so as to make it possible to sell it. Only about one-third of Muslim Waqf property, principally mosques and graveyards that were currently in use, was not expropriated. In 1956 its administration was turned over to the Board of Trustees of the Muslim Waqf, which by then was made up of collaborators appointed by the authorities. These \"trustees\" would sell or \"exchange\" land with the ILA without any accountability to the Muslim community. Anger over these deeds led to acts of violence within the community, including assassinations.\".\n\nThis law establishes the procedure to compensate owners of lands which have been confiscated under the \"Absentees’ Property Law (1950)\". It establishes the requirements to be eligible for compensation (Article 1):\n\nThe persons entitled to compensation are all those who were Israel residents on 1 July 1973, or became residents thereafter, and prior to the property becoming vested in the Custodian of Absentees' Property were\n\nOther provisions specify the time limit legally allowed for filing a claim, whether compensation would be awarded in cash or bonds (depending on circumstances), the payment schedule (generally over a fifteen-year period) and other provisions. Appended to the law is a detailed schedule of how compensation is to be calculated for each type of property, urban or agricultural. Some provisions of this law were amended in later years.\n\nThis ordinance was originally enacted by the British in 1943 and later used by Israel to authorise the confiscation of lands for Government and ‘public’ purposes (see \"eminent domain\"). These included building Government offices, creating lands and parks, and suchlike. Kedar (p. 155) describes this law as “the main general land expropriation law in force in Israel today”.\n\nA 1964 amendment to this law, \"Acquisition for Public Purposes (Amendment of Provisions) Law, 5724-1964\", specifies procedures to be followed in the acquisition of lands based on this and other laws, including the original \"Land (Acquisition for Public Purposes) Ordinance (1943)\", the \"Town Planning Ordinance (1936)\", and the \"Roads and Railways (Defence and Development) Ordinance (1943)\".\nThe 1964 amendment also defines circumstances under which no compensation would be offered to those whose lands had been expropriated; generally, where the expropriation had occurred prior to the coming into force of this law. Additional amendments corrected various laws under which such lands might be expropriated, substituting Israeli laws for earlier British versions and clarifying rights to compensation.\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 43), Israel used this law extensively to expropriate Palestinians lands. Many Palestinians challenged the expropriations and did not accept compensation. A 1978 amendment to the law, \"Acquisition for Public Purposes (Amendment of Provisions) (Amendment No.3) Law, 5738-1978\", addresses this issue by decreeing that where the owner refuses compensation or does not give consent within the time allotted, these funds would be deposited with the Administrator-General in the name of the owner. However, this provision has no bearing on the matter of the expropriation itself. According to the COHRE and BADIL study, lands acquired under this law were used for the building of new Jewish settlements or other ventures from which Arab Palestinians with Israeli citizenship were excluded. The Jewish-dominated sector of Upper Nazareth was created in this manner and was the subject of several lawsuits filed at the Supreme Court.\n\nAccording to Fast Magazine, with the law 40 percent of the owner’s land can be confiscated without compensation and public purposes are usually Jewish: From 1200 dunams confiscated in Nazareth for public purposes, 80 dunams were used for public buildings and the rest was used to build Jewish housing.\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 41), this law extends Israeli jurisdiction to ‘the Occupied Area of Jerusalem’ (the western part of Jerusalem that was incorporated into Israel in 1948). It declares that all orders and regulations enacted by the Military Governor or other Government ministries shall be given the force of law.\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 42), the ‘Authority for the Development of the Country’ (or the ‘Development Authority’) was established to work with relevant Government agencies to acquire and prepare lands for the benefit of newly arriving Jewish immigrants. Vast amounts of land allocated for this purpose were bought from the ‘Custodian of Absentee Property’. Pursuant to this law, lands passing into the hands of the State or to JNF control would be deemed inalienable. Article 3(4)(a) reads:The Development Authority is competent:\n\nThe Prescription Law was first enacted in 1958 and amended in 1965. It repeals critical provisions of, and reverses British practices in relation to, the \"Ottoman Land Code (1858)\".\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL (p. 44), the \"Prescription Law\" is one of the most critical to understanding the legal underpinnings of Israel’s acquisition of Palestinian lands. Although not readily apparent in the language of the law, the purpose behind this legislation was to enable Israel to claim as ‘State lands’ areas where Palestinians still predominated and where they could still assert their own claims on the land (for example, in the north of the country). The authors claim that this law, in conjunction with the \"Land (Settlement of Title) Ordinance (Amendment) Law, 5720-1960\", the \"Land (Settlement of Title) Ordinance (New Version), 5729-1969\" and the \"Land Law, 5729-1969\", was designed to revise criteria related to the use and registration of Miri lands – one of the most prevalent types in Palestine – and to facilitate Israel’s acquisition of such land.\n\nUnder this law, farmers are required to submit documentation proving uninterrupted cultivation of designated plots of land over a 15-year period (the ‘prescription’ period). Article 5 states:The period within which a claim in respect of which an action has not been brought shall be prescribed (such period being hereinafter referred to as \"the period of prescription\") shall be\n\nThe law adds the proviso that lands purchased after 1 March 1943 would be subject to a 20-year verification period. The law also specifies a five-year hiatus between 1958 and 1963 that would not be counted toward this ‘prescription’ period.\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL, by 1963, much of the lands in question had still not been surveyed. Therefore, calculations of the requisite 20-year verification period were in effect halted, and the State was in a position to press its own claims to these lands. The authors consider that the \"Prescription Law\" had even more complex ramifications. For example, Israel decided that British aerial photographs of 1945 would be used to verify cultivation. Arab farmers who had not yet begun tilling their lands at the time\nthe photographs were taken found they were by definition unable to meet the requisite 15-year ‘prescription’ period. Also, as Israel did not accept other evidence of cultivation, such as tax records, many Palestinians fell victim to a ‘Catch-22’: in the process of trying to establish their legal ownership they (retroactively) lost their lands.\n\nAccording to COHRE and BADIL a 1965 report by the Israeli Land Administration (ILA) reflects on the rationale behind the law:In the Northern area, there was a danger of the [acquisition of rights] by prescription according to the Statute of\nLimitation (1958) regarding all State land, and those [lands] of the Custodian of Absentee Property and the Development Authority. Particularly in the area of the [Arab] minorities where various elements began to take over State land and those of the Development Authority, and [sic] there was worry that these lands would be taken away from the hand of the ILA [Israeli Land Administration] and be transferred to the ownership of the trespassers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5372306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5372306", "title": "Jailhouse lawyer", "text": "Jailhouse lawyer\n\nJailhouse lawyer is a colloquial term in North American English to refer to an inmate in a jail or other prison who, though usually never having practiced law nor having any formal legal training, informally assists other inmates in legal matters relating to their sentence (e.g. appeal of their sentence, pardons, stays of execution, etc.) or to their conditions in prison. Sometimes, he or she also assists other inmates in civil matters of a legal nature. The ability that inmates have to help other illiterate inmates file petition for post conviction relief was first recognized in Johnson v. Avery. This same case also determined that unless states provide reasonable alternative they must allow such action by jailhouse lawyers.\n\nThe term can also refer to a prison inmate who is representing themselves in legal matters relating to their sentence. The important role that jailhouse lawyers play in the criminal justice system has been recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court, which has held that jailhouse lawyers must be permitted to assist illiterate inmates in filing petitions for post-conviction relief unless the state provides some reasonable alternative.\n\nMany states in the U.S. have Jailhouse Lawyer Statutes, some of which exempt inmates acting as jailhouse lawyers from the licensing requirements imposed on other attorneys when they are helping indigent inmates with legal matters.However, this is a service that can be taken away or restricted and states may lay down restrictions on jailhouse lawyers especially if they find that inmates are not only be abused by jailhouse lawyers but committing abuse themselves. Such restrictions that can be placed are limitations on the time and place which such business can be conducted but none of these restrictions can simply be placed without reason or simply arbitrarily. The most common reason that restrictions are often added is that prisoners often start to provide more formal legal advice. Unless you have taken a bar exam in the state you reside and passed said exam you are not allowed to provide legal counsel. They also found in Shaw v. Murphy that inmates do not hold a first amendment right to provide formal legal counsel to other inmates.\n\nCases brought by inmates have also called attention to the need for jailhouse lawyers to have access to law libraries.\n\nThe Center for Constitutional Rights and National Lawyers Guild wrote \"The Jailhouse Lawyers Handbook\" in 2003 for inmates needing rudimentary information on jailhouse lawyering. The Columbia Human Rights Law Review of Columbia Law School publishes \"A Jailhouse Lawyer's Manual\" (\"the \"JLM\"\"), intended to help prisoners and jailhouse lawyers appeal their sentence, protest their conditions of imprisonment, etc. The eighth edition was published in 2009. The ninth edition was published in 2011 and is freely downloadable. The tenth edition was published in 2014 and is the most up-to-date version.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12238676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12238676", "title": "Jean de Carrouges", "text": "Jean de Carrouges\n\nSir Jean de Carrouges IV (c. 1330s – 25 September 1396) was a fourteenth-century French knight who governed estates in Normandy as a vassal of Count Pierre d'Alençon and served under Admiral Jean de Vienne in several campaigns against the English and the forces of the Ottoman Empire. He became infamous in medieval France for fighting in the last judicial duel permitted by the French king and the Parlement of Paris. The combat was decreed in 1386 to contest charges of rape Carrouges had brought against his neighbour and erstwhile friend Jacques Le Gris on behalf of his wife Marguerite. It was attended by much of the highest French nobility of the time led by King Charles VI and his family, including a number of royal dukes. It was also attended by thousands of ordinary Parisians and in the ensuing decades was chronicled by such notable medieval historians as Jean Froissart, Jean Juvénal des Ursins and Jehan de Waurin.\n\nDescribed in the chronicles as a rash and temperamental man, Carrouges was also a fierce and brave warrior whose death in battle came after a forty-year military career in which he served in Normandy, Scotland and Hungary with distinction and success. He was also heavily involved in court politics, initially at the seat of his overlord Count Pierre of Alençon at Argentan, but later in the politics of the Royal household at Paris, to which he was attached as a \"chevalier d'honneur\" and Royal bodyguard in the years following the judicial duel. During his life he conducted a long trail of legal and financial dealings which infuriated his contemporaries and may have invited violence against himself and his family. The truth of the events which led him into public mortal combat in the Paris suburbs may never be known, but the legend is still debated and discussed 600 years later.\n\nCarrouges was born in the late 1330s in the village of Saint-Marguerite-de-Carrouges as the eldest son of knight and minor noble Sir Jean de Carrouges III and his wife Nicole de Buchard. Carrouges III was an influential man in lower Normandy, being a vassal of the Count of Perche and a veteran soldier in his service. Carrouges III had been rewarded for his long military service in the Hundred Years War with a knighthood and the title of Viscount of Bellême, a rank that came with command of a vital hill castle overlooking the town as well as the role of sheriff in the vicinity, a post carrying significant financial and social rewards.\n\nCarrouges IV grew up within his father's domain, centred around the village of Carrouges where the family maintained their own hereditary castle. He followed his father into the armed service of the Counts of Perche and served in several minor campaigns against the English and \"routiers\" in Normandy. Following his majority at age 21, he was given a parcel of the family lands to administer and became interested in solidifying and expanding the family holdings. In 1367 the family castle and the village of Carrouges were destroyed by English soldiers and a new castle was built on a hilltop nearby, under instructions from Charles V of France.\n\nIn the early 1370s, Carrouges IV married Jeanne de Tilly, a daughter of the Lord of Chambois whose dowry included lands and rents vital to Carrouges' ambition of expanding his family estates. Shortly after their wedding Jeanne gave birth to a son, whose godfather was a neighbour and close friend of de Carrouges, Squire Jacques Le Gris. In 1377, Pierre d'Alençon inherited his brother Robert's county of Perche and with it the castle of Bellême. In addition, he gained the fealty of his brother's vassals, including the Carrouges father and son as well as Jacques Le Gris. The younger Carrouges and Le Gris soon joined the court circle of the Count, centered around the town of Argentan.\n\nIt was at Argentan that the friendship between Carrouges and Le Gris began to deteriorate, as Le Gris rapidly became a favourite of Count Pierre. While Carrouges was overlooked, Le Gris was rewarded for service to the Count, inheriting his father's lordship of the castle at Exmes and being granted a newly purchased estate at Arnou-le-Faucon. Carrouges became jealous of his friend and the two men soon became rivals at the court. A year after entering Count Pierre's service, tragedy struck Carrouges as both his wife and son died of unknown but natural causes. In response, Carrouges left home and joined the service of Jean de Vienne accompanied by a retinue of nine squires. With this force, under the overall command of King Charles V, Carrouges distinguished himself in minor actions against the English in Beuzeville, Carentan and Coutances in a five-month campaign, during which over half his retinue were killed in battle or by disease.\n\nReturning home in 1380 after a successful campaign, Carrouges married Marguerite de Thibouville, only daughter of the highly controversial Robert de Thibouville. Thibouville was a Norman lord who had twice sided against the French king in territorial conflicts, betrayals he was lucky to survive, albeit in reduced circumstances. By the union of Marguerite and Carrouges, Thibouville hoped to restore his family's status and wealth while Carrouges was hoping for an heir from the young Marguerite, whom contemporaries described as \"young, beautiful, good, sensible and modest\".\n\nShortly after his marriage, Carrouges revealed another motive for the union. The valuable estate of Arnou-le-Faucon, given to his rival Jacques Le Gris two years earlier, had been formerly owned by Carrouges' father-in-law and had been bought by Count Pierre for 8,000 French livres in 1377. Carrouges immediately began a lawsuit to recover the land based on an assumed prior claim to it. The case dragged on for some months until ultimately Count Pierre was forced to visit his cousin King Charles VI to officially confirm his ownership of the land and his right to give it to whomever of his followers he chose. Despite losing the case, the lawsuit reflected very poorly on Carrouges at the court in Argentan and resulted in his further estrangement from Count Pierre's circle.\n\nTwo years after the Arnou-le-Faucon lawsuit, Carrouges was once again in court facing Count Pierre, this time in dispute over the lands administered by his recently deceased father. Carrouges III's death early in 1382 vacated the captaincy of the castle of Bellême, a post Carrouges IV believed would be his by right. However, due to the failed lawsuit two years earlier, Count Pierre passed Carrouges over for the captaincy and gave it to another of his followers. The infuriated Carrouges again brought legal action against his overlord and again he was defeated in court. The only lasting result of the action was the further separation of Carrouges and Count Pierre's court.\n\nIn March 1383, Carrouges made a third effort to expand his family holdings, with the purchase of the neighbouring fiefs of Cuigny and Plainville from his neighbour Sir Jean de Vauloger. The sale required approval from Count Pierre, who was overlord of both fiefs, but as consequence of the previous legal difficulties Carrouges had caused him, Pierre refused to permit the sale and insisted that Carrouges turn the properties over to him in exchange for a full refund of the original price paid. Carrouges had no choice but to comply and subsequently blamed Jacques Le Gris' influence for this new misfortune.\n\nLate in 1384 Carrouges entered society for the first time since his marriage four years earlier, attending a party to celebrate the birth of a neighbour's son. Carrouges and Le Gris met at the celebration and agreed to end their quarrel, Carrouges introducing Le Gris to his wife Marguerite for the first time. A few months after this meeting, in March 1385, Carrouges attempted to increase his family wealth through military means, by joining the army of Jean de Vienne for an expedition sailing to Edinburgh. This force of about 3,000 soldiers was intended to unite with the Scottish army and raid Northern England, distracting English forces from operations in France. Traveling with men-at-arms, horses, gold and equipment, Carrouges and his entourage rode to Sluys and took ship to Leith during the spring of 1385.\n\nOn arrival in Scotland much time was spent gathering Scottish troops together for the campaign on England and the French were delayed for some months collecting supplies. The army thus did not move south until July, ravaging villages and farms in the region of the River Tweed before besieging Wark Castle and burning it to the ground. The allied army then continued south through Northumberland and there burnt villages, towns, farms and castles across their line of advance in a large chevauchée. The English responded with an army led by King Richard II which advanced against the allied force and offered battle. The French prepared to fight but their Scots allies retreated, leaving the French exposed, and they were consequently forced to retreat as well. Outside Edinburgh the Scottish army dispersed and the inhabitants of the city fled north, leaving the French alone in the city. Realising that his force was outnumbered and without food or help, Vienne took the army south, rounding the English on the night of the 10 August and reentering Northumberland for further looting, attacking Carlisle but being unable to break through its walls. As the Franco-Scottish army returned northwards it was attacked by an army under Henry Percy which destroyed the army's wagon train and took many prisoners. When the defeated French returned to Edinburgh the Scots refused to provision the French army and many men died of disease or starvation. Late in the year the French army boarded ship and returned to Flanders, bankrupt and defeated.\n\nDespite the expedition's failure, Carrouges had distinguished himself in the campaign. Although he had lost five of his nine men-at-arms and a substantial amount of money he had also been awarded a knighthood on the battlefield, substantially raising his social status and the amount of money he received from military service. Despite being in poor health on his return from Scotland, Carrouges had business in Paris and in January 1386 he traveled there to collect his wages for the previous year's campaign, leaving his wife with her mother-in-law at the village of Capomesnil.\n\nBefore setting off for Paris, Carrouges first visited Argentan to meet with Count Pierre and there announcing his intention of continuing to the capital. What followed was a sequence of events which will forever remain unclear but which would have a dramatic effect on the lives of all concerned. What is certain is that Carrouges encountered his rival Jacques Le Gris at the court of Count Pierre and words were exchanged, although what was said is unknown. In contrast to his bankrupt rival, Le Gris had not been on the Scottish expedition and had grown wealthier in Carrouges' absence. Le Gris also had a reputation as a fierce and strong soldier in addition to that of a notorious womaniser, a reputation that may have played a part in the allegations which followed.\n\nOn the morning of 18 January 1386, Dame Nicole de Carrouges departed her chateau at Capomesnil for the neighbouring town of Saint-Pierre-sur-Dives where she had legal business to attend to. Although the journey was only a short one, she apparently took some or all of the household servants with her, leaving her daughter-in-law unattended during the day. Marguerite's testimony then alleged that a man-at-arms named Adam Louvel knocked on the chateau door, which Marguerite opened herself in the absence of servants. According to Marguerite, Louvel then made enquiries about a loan he owed Jean de Carrouges before suddenly announcing that Jacques Le Gris was outside the door and insisted on seeing her. At her refusal, Louvel exclaimed that \"he loves you passionately, he will do anything for you and he greatly desires to see you\". Although Marguerite protested, Le Gris then forced his way into the house and propositioned her, offering money if she would remain silent of their affair. When Marguerite refused, Le Gris then violently raped her with the aid of Louvel and threatened her not to tell anyone what had occurred on pain of death.\n\nMarguerite remained silent of her ordeal for several days, until her husband's return on the 21 or 22 January. Upon hearing of the encounter, the outraged Carrouges summoned his circle of courtiers and friends, including his mother and most of Marguerite's family, and a council was convened where Marguerite repeated her account of the rape. Carrouges decided immediately to begin legal proceedings against Le Gris but faced great difficulties in prosecuting them as Le Gris was a favourite of Count Pierre, who would act as judge in the case. In addition, the case was weak because the only witness was Marguerite. Indeed, the trial at Argentan was so one-sided an affair that Carrouges and his wife did not even bother to attend; Pierre acquitted Le Gris of all charges and furthermore accused Marguerite of inventing or even \"dreaming\" the attack.\n\nIn search of a fair trial, Carrouges traveled to Paris to appeal to the King himself. Knowing that his case depended solely on his wife's testimony and was therefore weak, Carrouges developed a plan: Instead of proceeding with a normal criminal trial, Carrouges would challenge Le Gris to a judicial duel, the survivor of which would thus have been deemed by God to have been the rightful claimant. Such trials-by-combat, once common in France, were rare by 1386 and the chance of one being permitted by the King unlikely. Nevertheless, Carrouges saw this scheme as his best option of procuring justice and redeeming his wife's reputation. A few days after his arrival in Paris, Carrouges was presented to the King at the Château de Vincennes in order to make the first official appeal in the lengthy trial process. In doing so, he captured the imagination of the French court, which later become so fascinated with the Carrouges-Le Gris trial that it would shape its schedule around watching the culminating combat.\n\nOn 9 July 1386, the second stage in the legal process began when both Carrouges and Le Gris, with their followers, presented themselves before the Parlement of Paris at the Palais de Justice to issue the formal challenge. This involved reciting their accusations and throwing down a gauntlet signifying their intention to fight. The declarations were pronounced in front of the King, his brother Louis of Valois and the entire Parlement, who decided to initially hear the case as an ordinary criminal one and defer their decision on whether to permit the judicial duel until both sides had given testimony. Attempts had been made to persuade Le Gris to insist on a church trial, but these proved unsuccessful as Le Gris wished to counter the accusation with a lawsuit against his opponent claiming 40,000 livres for defamation. Following the declarations a number of high-ranking noblemen stepped forward to act as seconds in the duel for both men, including Waleran of Saint-Pol for Carrouges and Philip of Artois, Count of Eu for Le Gris.\n\nThe criminal trial continued for most of the summer and Carrouges, Le Gris and Marguerite were all called on to give evidence. Marguerite was by this time visibly pregnant, although medieval medical knowledge claimed that children could not be conceived as a result of rape and her condition therefore was determined to have no bearing on the case. Adam Louvel and at least one of Marguerite's maidservants also gave evidence and, as was the custom of the day for people of low birth, they were tortured to test the veracity of their testimony. During this process neither produced evidence incriminating Le Gris, although Louvel was subsequently challenged to a duel himself by Marguerite's cousin, Thomin du Bois. In his evidence, Carrouges statement primarily repeated and supported his wife's testimony, while Le Gris accused Carrouges of inventing the charges and beating his wife into making the accusations against the squire. In his statement, Le Gris painted a picture of a man driven wild with anger and jealousy who sought to restore his family fortune by concocting false accusations against his most significant rival. Le Gris also offered alibis for his whereabouts during the entire week the crime was supposed to have been committed and attempted to explain that it was not possible for him to have ridden the twenty-five miles which supposedly separated him from Marguerite on the morning in question. A rebuttal from Carrouges emphasised the shame the trial had brought to his family as a reason against its invention and offered a counter demonstration of horsemanship indicating that the suggested fifty mile round trip was not impossible even if Le Gris's alibi was true. Le Gris' alibi was compromised some days later when the man providing it, a squire named Jean Beloteau, was arrested for committing rape in Paris even as the trial progressed. On 15 September, with the King in Flanders preparing for an invasion of England, the parlement handed down its verdict: As they had been unable to determine the guilt in the case, the two men would fight a duel to the death on 27 November 1386.\n\nThe two months following the verdict were ones of great activity between the two parties and the citizens of Paris. As judicial duels were now so rare, no established battleground had been set aside, and a jousting arena at the Abbey of Saint-Martin-des-Champs north of the city agreed to host the combat. Both Carrouges and Le Gris endured bouts of illness in the weeks following the verdict but recovered with the aid of their families and supporters, who had joined the hundreds of people flocking to the city from nearby regions to witness the fight. Indeed, the event was so popular that when King Charles VI believed that his return to Paris in time for the combat would be held up in Flanders due to bad roads, he sent a fast messenger to Paris delaying the duel by a month in order that he would be present to witness it. This Royal intervention set the date for the combat back to 29 December 1386.\n\nIn the months between trial and duel, Marguerite and the French queen Isabeau of Bavaria had both given birth to sons. While Marguerite's son Robert was a strong, healthy boy, the Dauphin was a sickly child and on the 28 December he died. Rather than descend into mourning, the King ordered a frenzy of parties and celebrations, the pinnacle of which was intended to be the duel between Carrouges and Le Gris. The morning of the combat saw thousands of Parisians arriving at the Abbey at dawn, long before the appointed hour. Amongst the spectators were the King and his entourage, including his uncles John, Duke of Berry, Philip the Bold and Louis II, Duke of Bourbon as well as his brother the Duke of Orléans. Also present, dressed in black and sitting in a carriage overlooking the field, was Marguerite. Should her husband lose the battle, she would be burnt at the stake in Montfaucon immediately following the duel, having been thus \"proven\" guilty of perjury by its outcome.\n\nThe combatants took the field in the early afternoon, mounted and dressed in plate armour. Both carried a lance, longsword, a heavy battle axe known as the \"Holy Trinity\" and a long dagger called the \"misericordia\". Carrouges appeared first, reciting his charges against Le Gris to the King and crowd before Le Gris followed and did the same. Le Gris was then knighted in order that he and Carrouges be of equal standing during the fight. Both knights then dismounted and gave oaths to God, the Virgin Mary and St George, thereby sanctifying God's judgment over the duel's outcome. Finally, Carrouges approached his wife and pledged his honour before her, kissing her and promising to return.\n\nAs the field was cleared, silence descended on the arena following the King's instructions that anybody who interfered in the duel would be executed and that anyone who shouted or verbally interrupted the combat would lose a hand. Readying their steeds, the knights squared up and at the marshal's signal, charged towards one another. Their lances struck but failed to penetrate the thick hides covering their shields and the combatants wheeled and charged again, this time striking one another on their helms. Rounding once more, the knights charged a third time, again striking shields and this time both shattering their lances. Reeling from the impact, the warriors drew their axes and charged a fourth time. Slashing and kicking at one another in the centre of the field, they traded blows until Le Gris, the much stronger man, was able to drive his axe through the neck of Carrouges' horse. As the beheaded beast tumbled to the ground, Carrouges jumped clear and lashed out with his own weapon, disemboweling Le Gris' steed in turn.\n\nNow on foot, the knights drew swords and returned to battle, Le Gris again proving stronger than his opponent and slowly gaining the upper hand. After several minutes of engagement, Carrouges slipped and Le Gris was able to stab his rival through the right thigh. As the crowd gasped and murmured, Le Gris stepped back to view his opponent's injury and Carrouges desperately counter-attacked, wrestling Le Gris to the ground. Le Gris' heavy armour prevented him from regaining his feet and Carrouges repeatedly stabbed at his floored opponent, his blows denting but not puncturing the thick plate steel. Realising that his sword was inadequate, Carrouges straddled Le Gris and used the handle of his dagger to smash the lock holding Le Gris' faceplate in position. Even as his opponent struggled beneath him, Carrouges tore the plate off and demanded that Le Gris admit his guilt. Le Gris refused and cried out \"In the name of God and on the peril and damnation of my soul, I am innocent\". Infuriated, Carrouges drove his dagger through Le Gris' neck, killing him instantly.\n\nStanding over his vanquished opponent, Carrouges remained on the field as the crowd cheered him and pages rushed to bind his wound. He then kneeled before the King, who presented him with a prize of a thousand francs in addition to a royal income of 200 francs a year. Only then did he greet his wife, in an emotional scene before the thousands of spectators. Jean and Marguerite de Carrouges then, with the crowd following in a great procession, rode from the abbey to the cathedral of Notre-Dame de Paris, to give thanks for the victory.\n\nA few weeks after the duel, Parlement awarded Carrouges a further six thousand livres in gold and a position within the Royal Household. Such rewards enabled Carrouge to begin further legal action, attempting to exert his earlier claim to Arnou-le-Faucon. However, this land which Carrouges so coveted remained beyond his reach. Count Pierre, who held the land, never forgave Carrouges the death of his favourite, and held the estates from him in court.\n\nOver the next three years, Jean and Marguerite de Carrouges had two more children and settled in Paris and Normandy, profiting from their celebrity with gifts and investments. In 1390, Carrouges was promoted to a \"chevalier d'honneur\" as a bodyguard of the King, a title which came with a substantial financial stipend and was a position of important social standing. The following year he was dispatched to Hungary on a mission to investigate the severity of the threat from the Ottoman Empire, the boundaries of which had been steadily spreading under Sultan Bayezid I. In this mission he was second in command to Jean de Boucicant, a Marshal of France and famous soldier, indicating the elevated social position Carrouges enjoyed following the duel.\n\nIn 1392 however, Carrouges was present for one of the more notorious occurrences in fourteenth century France; the first descent into madness of King Charles VI. As a \"chevalier d'honneur\", Carrouges accompanied the King on campaign and thus was present when the Royal Army entered Brittany to hunt for Pierre de Craon, a noble who had fled Paris following a failed attempt to murder Olivier de Clisson, Constable of France. As the army passed Le Mans on 8 August 1392, a loud noise within his entourage startled the French King, who believing himself to be under attack, lashed out at the nearest person to him. The man happened to be his brother Louis of Valois, who turned and fled from his brother's sword. Killing several pages who attempted to calm his temper, the King set off on full pursuit of Louis, leaving the army strung out across the countryside behind him. The pursuit continued for hours until the exhausted King was eventually subdued by his bodyguard, including Jean de Carrouges.\n\nIn early 1396, following the peace treaty with England, the French army mobilised against another pressing threat; that of the Turks to the east as part of a new crusade. As a leader of the original party to investigate events in Hungary, it was natural that Jean de Carrouges would return with his followers in the service of his old commander, Admiral Jean de Vienne. The army crossed Central Europe, united with the Hungarians and marched south, burning the city of Vidin and massacring the inhabitants before following the course of the Danube southeast, cutting a swathe of destruction through Ottoman territory. On the 12 September, the army arrived at the city of Nicopolis but were repulsed from its walls and settled into a siege.\n\nTwo weeks later, Sultan Bayezid arrived with a large army to the south of the town and took up a strong defensive position, challenging the crusaders to meet him. The crusader army moved to confront him on 24 September, but poor discipline and fractured leadership between the national factions resulted in a premature assault by the French force against the bluffs controlled by Ottoman troops. With the allied army strung out, Bayezid marshaled his reserves and defeated the crusaders in a furious engagement in which fell most of the allied army. Thousands more were captured and executed after the battle by the victorious Turkish troops. The exact fate of Sir Jean de Carrouges in the midst of this melee is unknown but it is probable that he fell close to his commander Jean de Vienne, whose forces were trapped in a gully and decimated by Turkish cavalry. Following his death, his estates passed to his ten-year-old son Robert and a mural of Jean and Marguerite de Carrouges was painted in the Abbey of St. Etienne in Caen to celebrate his memory. Since that time however, both the family and mural have faded into obscurity.\n\nDue to the controversy and celebrity surrounding the case, the judicial duel between Carrouges and Le Gris was the last ever permitted by the French government and as such a well attended and infamous event, it soon attracted near-legendary status. In France the memory of the duel far outlasted its participants, primarily a result of it being recorded soon after by the contemporary chronicler Jean Froissart. Over the following century, vivid and imaginative accounts were carried in the chronicles of Jean Juvénal des Ursins and the Grandes Chroniques de France as well as by Jehan de Waurin and others, many embellishing the story with imaginative twists. The factual details of the case are unusually well recorded for a medieval trial as the records of the Parlement de Paris have survived intact and Jacques Le Gris' lawyer Jean Le Coq kept meticulous notes on the case which still exist. In addition to a clear view of proceedings these notes also contain Le Coq's own concerns about his client, whose innocence Le Coq deemed highly suspect.\n\nDespite these records, the event entered many historical texts as an example of a great miscarriage of justice which therefore brought the tradition of trial-by-combat to an end. Several chronicles, including the \"Chronique du Religieux de Saint-Denys\" and the Chronicles of Jean Juvénal des Ursins, tell of a deathbed confession to the rape by another man. This story, which is without basis in fact, was subsequently repeated in many later sources, most notably the Encyclopædia Britannica which for many years contained a version of the tale under the entry for \"Duel\". This information was eventually removed in an edition printed in the 1970s.\n\nOther sources have discussed the story in varying degrees of detail, including a section in Diderot's Encyclopédie, in the \"Histoire du Parlement de Paris\" by Voltaire and in a number of books written in the nineteenth century, including a work in the 1880s by a descendant of Jacques Le Gris in which the author attempted to prove his ancestor's innocence. In the twentieth century other authors have studied the case, the most recent being \"The Last Duel\" in 2004, by Eric Jager, a professor of English at UCLA.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "23018034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23018034", "title": "John A. Delaney Student Union", "text": "John A. Delaney Student Union\n\nThe John A. Delaney Student Union is the student activity center at the University of North Florida (UNF) in Jacksonville, Florida, U.S. The first such building in UNF's history, it opened in 2009. It is located on the university's campus across from UNF Arena. The Student Union has been awarded several architectural awards, including the AIA Jacksonville Best Education Building in Florida award (2012), fourth place in AIA Florida's Best Building in Florida in 100 Years rankings (2012), and the AIA Jacksonville Design Award of Merit (2010). It was named in 2018 for former UNF president John A. Delaney.\n\nOpened in 2009, the Student Union is the first in the university's history. It succeeds the Robinson Student Life Center as the main recreational facility on campus, but the Robinson Center only included a fraction of the amenities of the current Student Union. Plans for a Student Union go back as far as the 1980s, but the project was finalized in 2007. The Student Union is a central part of UNF's 2006 announcement to spend $170 million on new structures on campus including new housing, a College of Education building, and parking.\n\nIn 2018, the facility was named the John A. Delaney Student Union, after John A. Delaney. Delaney, who retired on May 31, 2018, had served as president of the school for 15 years.\n\n\nUNF's Student Union consists of two buildings connected by a covered walkway known as Osprey Plaza. The structure includes contains the UNF bookstore, a convenience store, restaurants, a game room, an auditorium, a ballroom, Community First bank branch, an LGBT Resource Center, and an amphitheater. UNF student government is housed there, as is the Spinnaker Media, which includes UNF's student newspaper The Spinnaker, Spinnaker Television, and Spinnaker Radio. The Lufrano Intercultural Gallery of Art and other various student organizations like Fraternity and Sorority Life have their offices in the facility. The Boathouse restaurant is the third variant of the UNF tradition. The food court has an Einstein Bros, Panda Express, and Slice Pizzeria. Market Days are held each Wednesday from 10am-2pm in Osprey Plaza and features vendors from the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "262593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262593", "title": "Joseph Brodsky", "text": "Joseph Brodsky\n\nIosif Aleksandrovich Brodsky (; ; 24 May 1940 – 28 January 1996) was a Russian-born American poet and essayist.\n\nBorn in Leningrad in 1940, Brodsky ran afoul of Soviet authorities and was expelled (\"strongly advised\" to emigrate) from the Soviet Union in 1972, settling in the United States with the help of W. H. Auden and other supporters. He taught thereafter at Mount Holyoke College, and at universities including Yale, Columbia, Cambridge and Michigan.\n\nBrodsky was awarded the 1987 Nobel Prize in Literature \"for an all-embracing authorship, imbued with clarity of thought and poetic intensity\". He was appointed United States Poet Laureate in 1991.\n\nBrodsky was born into a Jewish family in Leningrad. He was a descendant of a prominent and ancient rabbinic family Schorr (Shor). His direct male-line ancestor is Joseph ben Isaac Bekhor Shor. His father, Aleksandr Brodsky, was a professional photographer in the Soviet Navy, and his mother, Maria Volpert Brodskaya, was a professional interpreter whose work often helped to support the family. They lived in communal apartments, in poverty, marginalized by their Jewish status. In early childhood Brodsky survived the Siege of Leningrad where he and his parents nearly died of starvation; one aunt did die of hunger. He later suffered from various health problems caused by the siege. Brodsky commented that many of his teachers were anti-Semitic and that he felt like a dissident from an early age. He noted \"I began to despise Lenin, even when I was in the first grade, not so much because of his political philosophy or practice ... but because of his omnipresent images.\"\n\nAs a young student Brodsky was \"an unruly child\" known for his misbehavior during classes. At fifteen, Brodsky left school and tried to enter the School of Submariners without success. He went on to work as a milling machine operator. Later, having decided to become a physician, he worked at the morgue at the Kresty Prison, cutting and sewing bodies. He subsequently held a variety of jobs in hospitals, in a ship's boiler room, and on geological expeditions. At the same time, Brodsky engaged in a program of self-education. He learned Polish so he could translate the works of Polish poets such as Czesław Miłosz, and English so that he could translate John Donne. On the way, he acquired a deep interest in classical philosophy, religion, mythology, and English and American poetry.\n\nIn 1955, Brodsky began writing his own poetry and producing literary translations. He circulated them in secret, and some were published by the underground journal \"Sintaksis\" (\"Syntax\"). His writings were apolitical. By 1958 he was already well known in literary circles for his poems \"The Jewish cemetery near Leningrad\" and \"Pilgrims\". Asked when he first felt called to poetry, he recollected, \"In 1959, in Yakutsk, when walking in that terrible city, I went into a bookstore. I snagged a copy of poems by Baratynsky. I had nothing to read. So I read that book and finally understood what I had to do in life. Or got very excited, at least. So in a way, Evgeny Abramovich Baratynsky is sort of responsible.\" His friend Ludmila Shtern recalled working with Brodsky on an irrigation project in his \"Geological Period\" (working as a geologist's assistant): \"We bounced around the Leningrad Province examining kilometers of canals, checking their embankments, which looked terrible. They were falling down, coming apart, had all sorts of strange things growing in them ... It was during these trips, however, that I was privileged to hear the poems \"The Hills\" and \"You Will Gallop in the Dark\". Brodsky read them aloud to me between two train cars as we were going towards Tikhvin.\" \nIn 1960, the young Brodsky met Anna Akhmatova, one of the leading poets of the silver age. She encouraged his work, and would go on to become his mentor. In 1962, in Leningrad, Anna Akhmatova introduced him to the artist , a young painter from an established artistic family who was drawing Akhmatova's portrait. The two started a relationship; however, Brodsky's then close friend and fellow poet Dmitri Bobyshev was in love with Basmanova. Bobyshev began to pursue the girl and immediately Brodsky began to be pursued by the authorities; Bobyshev was widely held responsible for denouncing him. Brodsky dedicated much love poetry to Marina Basmanova:\n\nIn 1963, Brodsky's poetry was denounced by a Leningrad newspaper as \"pornographic and anti-Soviet\". His papers were confiscated, he was interrogated, twice put in a mental institution and then arrested. He was charged with social parasitism by the Soviet authorities in a trial in 1964, finding that his series of odd jobs and role as a poet were not a sufficient contribution to society. They called him \"a pseudo-poet in velveteen trousers\" who failed to fulfill his \"constitutional duty to work honestly for the good of the motherland\". The trial judge asked \"Who has recognized you as a poet? Who has enrolled you in the ranks of poets?\" – \"No one,\" Brodsky replied, \"Who enrolled me in the ranks of the human race?\" Brodsky was not yet 24.\n\nFor his \"parasitism\" Brodsky was sentenced to five years hard labor and served 18 months on a farm in the village of Norenskaya, in the Archangelsk region, 350 miles from Leningrad. He rented his own small cottage, and though it was without plumbing or central heating, having one's own, private space was taken to be a great luxury at the time. Basmanova, Bobyshev and Brodsky's mother, among others, visited. He wrote on his typewriter, chopped wood, hauled manure and at night read his anthologies of English and American poetry, including a lot of W. H. Auden and Robert Frost. Brodsky's close friend and biographer Lev Loseff writes that while confinement in the mental hospital and the trial were miserable experiences, the 18 months in the Arctic were among the best times of Brodsky's life. Brodsky's mentor, Anna Akhmatova, laughed at the KGB's shortsightedness. \"What a biography they're fashioning for our red-haired friend!\" she said. \"It's as if he'd hired them to do it on purpose.\"\n\nBrodsky's sentence was commuted in 1965 after protests by prominent Soviet and foreign cultural figures, including Evgeny Evtushenko, Dmitri Shostakovich, and Jean-Paul Sartre as well as Akhmatova. Brodsky became a cause célèbre in the West also when a secret transcription of trial minutes was smuggled out of the country, making him a symbol of artistic resistance in a totalitarian society, much like his mentor Akhmatova.\n\nHis son Andrei was born on the 8 October 1967, and Basmanova broke off the relationship. Andrei was registered under Basmanova's surname because Brodsky did not want his son to suffer from political attacks that he endured. Marina Basmanova was threatened by the Soviet authorities which prevented her from marrying Brodsky or joining him when he was exiled from the country. After the birth of their son, Brodsky continued to dedicate love poetry to Basmanova. In 1989, Brodsky wrote his last poem to \"M.B.\", describing himself remembering their life in Leningrad:\n\nBrodsky returned to Leningrad in December 1965 and continued to write over the next seven years, many of his works being translated into German, French and English and published abroad. \"Verses and Poems\" was published by Inter-Language Literary Associates in Washington in 1965, \"Elegy to John Donne and Other Poems\" was published in London in 1967 by Longmans Green, and \"A Stop in the Desert\" was issued in 1970 by Chekhov Publishing in New York. Only four of his poems were published in Leningrad anthologies in 1966 and 1967, most of his work appearing outside the Soviet Union or circulated in secret (samizdat) until 1987. Persecuted for his poetry and his Jewish heritage, he was denied permission to travel. In 1972, while Brodsky was being considered for exile, the authorities consulted mental health expert Andrei Snezhnevsky, a key proponent of the notorious pseudo-medical diagnosis of \"paranoid reformist delusion\". This political tool allowed the state to lock up dissenters in psychiatric institutions indefinitely. Without examining him personally, Snezhnevsky diagnosed Brodsky as having \"sluggishly progressing schizophrenia\", concluding that he was \"not a valuable person at all and may be let go\". In 1971, Brodsky was twice invited to emigrate to Israel. When called to the Ministry of the Interior in 1972 and asked why he had not accepted, he stated that he wished to stay in the country. Within 10 days officials broke into his apartment, took his papers, and on 4 June 1972 put him on a plane for Vienna, Austria. He never returned to Russia and never saw Basmanova again. Brodsky later wrote \"The Last Judgement is the Last Judgement, but a human being who spent his life in Russia, has to be, without any hesitation, placed into Paradise.\"\n\nIn Austria, he met Carl Ray Proffer and Auden, who facilitated Brodsky's transit to the United States and proved influential to Brodsky's career. Proffer, of the University of Michigan and one of the co-founders of Ardis Publishers, became Brodsky's Russian publisher from this point on. Recalling his landing in Vienna, Brodsky commented \n\nI knew I was leaving my country for good, but for where, I had no idea whatsoever. One thing which was quite clear was that I didn't want to go to Israel ... I never even believed that they'd allow me to go. I never believed they would put me on a plane, and when they did I didn't know whether the plane would go east or west ... I didn't want to be hounded by what was left of the Soviet Security Service in England. So I came to the States.\n\nAlthough the poet was invited back after the fall of the Soviet Union, Brodsky never returned to his country.\n\nAfter a short stay in Vienna, Brodsky settled in Ann Arbor, with the help of poet Auden and Proffer and became poet in residence at the University of Michigan for a year. Brodsky went on to become a Visiting Professor at Queens College (1973–74), Smith College, Columbia University, and Cambridge University, later returning to the University of Michigan (1974–80). He was the Andrew Mellon Professor of Literature and Five College Professor of Literature at Mount Holyoke College, brought there by poet and historian Peter Viereck. In 1978, Brodsky was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Letters at Yale University, and on 23 May 1979, he was inducted as a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. He moved to New York's Greenwich Village in 1980 and in 1981 received the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation's \"genius\" award. He was also a recipient of The International Center in New York's Award of Excellence. In 1986, his collection of essays \"Less Than One\" won the National Book Critics Award for Criticism and he was given an honorary doctorate of literature from Oxford University.\n\nIn 1987, he won the Nobel Prize for Literature, the fifth Russian-born writer to do so. In an interview he was asked: \"You are an American citizen who is receiving the Prize for Russian-language poetry. Who are you, an American or a Russian?\" \"I'm Jewish; a Russian poet, an English essayist – and, of course, an American citizen\", he responded. The Academy stated that they had awarded the prize for his \"all-embracing authorship, imbued with clarity of thought and poetic intensity\". It also called his writing \"rich and intensely vital\", characterized by \"great breadth in time and space\". It was \"a big step for me, a small step for mankind\", he joked. The prize coincided with the first legal publication in Russia of Brodsky's poetry as an exile.\n\nIn 1991, Brodsky became Poet Laureate of the United States. The Librarian of Congress said that Brodsky had \"the open-ended interest of American life that immigrants have. This is a reminder that so much of American creativity is from people not born in America.\" His inauguration address was printed in \"Poetry Review\". Brodsky held an honorary degree from the University of Silesia in Poland and was an honorary member of the International Academy of Science. In 1995, Gleb Uspensky, a senior editor at the Russian publishing house Vagrius, asked Brodsky to return to Russia for a tour but he could not agree. For the last ten years of his life, Brodsky was under considerable pressure from those that regarded him as a \"fortune maker\". He was a greatly honored professor, was on first name terms with the heads of many large publishing houses, and connected to the significant figures of American literary life. His friend Ludmila Shtern wrote that many Russian intellectuals in both Russia and America assumed his influence was unlimited, that a nod from him could secure them a book contract, a teaching post or a grant, that it was in his gift to assure a glittering career. A helping hand or a rejection of a petition for help could create a storm in Russian literary circles, which Shtern suggests became very personal at times. His position as a lauded émigré and Nobel Prize winner won him enemies and stoked resentment, the politics of which, she writes, made him feel \"deathly tired\" of it all towards the end.\nIn 1990, while teaching literature in France, Brodsky married a young student, Maria Sozzani, who has a Russian-Italian background; they had one daughter, Anna.\n\nMarina Basmanova lived in fear of the Soviet authorities, until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991; only after this was their son Andrei Basmanov allowed to join his father in New York. In the 1990s, Brodsky invited Andrei to visit him in New York for three months, and they maintained a father-son relationship until Brodsky's death. Andrei married in the 1990s and had three children, all of whom were recognized and supported by Brodsky as his grandchildren; Marina Basmanova, Andrei, and Brodsky's grandchildren all live in Saint Petersburg. Andrei gave readings of his father's poetry in a documentary about Brodsky. The film contains Brodsky's poems dedicated to Marina Basmanova and written between 1961 and 1982.\n\nBrodsky died of a heart attack aged 55, at his apartment in Brooklyn Heights, a neighborhood of Brooklyn borough of New York City, on January 28, 1996. He had had open-heart surgery in 1979 and later two bypass operations, remaining in frail health since that time. He was buried in a non-Catholic section of the Isola di San Michele cemetery in Venice, Italy, also the resting place of Ezra Pound and Igor Stravinsky. In 1997, a plaque was placed on his house in St Petersburg with his portrait in relief, and the words \"In this house from 1940 to 1972 lived the great Russian poet Iosif Aleksandrovich Brodsky\". Brodsky's close friend, the Nobel laureate Derek Walcott, memorialized him in his collection \"The Prodigal\", in 2004.\n\nBrodsky is perhaps most known for his poetry collections \"A Part of Speech\" (1977) and \"To Urania\" (1988) and the essay collection \"Less Than One\" (1986), which won the National Book Critics Circle Award. Other notable works include the play \"Marbles\" (1989) and \"Watermark\", a prose collection (1992). Throughout his career he wrote in Russian and English, self-translating and working with eminent poet-translators.\n\nIn his introduction to Brodsky's \"Selected Poems\" (New York and Harmondsworth, 1973), W. H. Auden described Brodsky as a traditionalist lyric poet fascinated by \"encounters with nature, ... reflections upon the human condition, death, and the meaning of existence\". He drew on wide-ranging themes, from Mexican and Caribbean literature to Roman poetry, mixing \"the physical and the metaphysical, place and ideas about place, now and the past and the future\". Critic Dinah Birch suggests that Brodsky's \" first volume of poetry in English, \"Joseph Brodsky: Selected Poems (1973)\", shows that although his strength was a distinctive kind of dry, meditative soliloquy, he was immensely versatile and technically accomplished in a number of forms.\"\n\n\"To Urania: Selected Poems 1965–1985\" collected translations of older work with new work written during his American exile and reflect on themes of memory, home and loss. His two essay collections consist of critical studies of such poets as Osip Mandelshtam, W. H. Auden, Thomas Hardy, Rainer Maria Rilke and Robert Frost, sketches of his own life, and those of contemporaries such as Akhmatova, Nadezhda Mandelshtam, and Stephen Spender.\n\nA recurring theme in Brodsky's writing is the relationship between the poet and society. In particular, Brodsky emphasized the power of literature to positively affect its audience and to develop the language and culture in which it is situated. He suggested that the Western literary tradition was in part responsible for the world having overcome the catastrophes of the 20th century, such as Nazism, Communism and the World Wars. During his term as Poet Laureate, Brodsky promoted the idea of bringing the Anglo-American poetic heritage to a wider American audience by distributing free poetry anthologies to the public through a government-sponsored program. Billington wrote \n\nJoseph had difficulty understanding why poetry did not draw the large audiences in the United States that it did in Russia. He was proud of becoming an American citizen in 1977 (the Soviets having made him stateless upon his expulsion in 1972) and valued the freedoms that life in the United States provided. But he regarded poetry as \"language's highest degree of maturity\", and wanted everyone to be susceptible to it. As Poet Laureate, he suggested that inexpensive anthologies of the best American poets be made available in hotels and airports, hospitals and supermarkets. He thought that people who are restless or fearful or lonely or weary might pick up poetry and discover unexpectedly that others had experienced these emotions before and had used them to celebrate life rather than escape from it. Joseph's idea was picked up, and thousands of such books have in fact been placed where people may come across them out of need or curiosity.\n\nThis passion for promoting the seriousness and importance of poetry comes through in Brodsky's opening remarks as the U.S. Poet Laureate in October 1991. He says, \"By failing to read or listen to poets, society dooms itself to inferior modes of articulation, those of the politician, the salesman or the charlatan. ... In other words, it forfeits its own evolutionary potential. For what distinguishes us from the rest of the animal kingdom is precisely the gift of speech. ... Poetry is not a form of entertainment and in a certain sense not even a form of art, but it is our anthropological, genetic goal, our evolutionary, linguistic beacon.\" This sentiment is echoed throughout his work. In interview with Sven Birkerts in 1979 Brodsky reflected:\n\nIn the works of the better poets you get the sensation that they're not talking to people any more, or to some seraphical creature. What they're doing is simply talking back to the language itself, as beauty, sensuality, wisdom, irony, those aspects of language of which the poet is a clear mirror. Poetry is not an art or a branch of art, it's something more. If what distinguishes us from other species is speech, then poetry, which is the supreme linguistic operation, is our anthropological, indeed genetic, goal. Anyone who regards poetry as an entertainment, as \"a read\", commits an anthropological crime, in the first place, against himself.\n\nLibrarian of Congress Dr James Billington, wrote \n\nHe was the favored protégé of the great lady of Petersburg, Anna Akhmatova, and to hear him read her poems in Russian in the Library of Congress was an experience to make one's hair stand on end even if one did not understand the Russian language. Joseph Brodsky was the embodiment of the hopes not only of Anna Akhmatova, the last of the great Petersburg poets from the beginning of the century, but also Nadezhda Mandelstam, the widow of another great martyred poet Osip Mandelstam. Both of them saw Joseph as part of the guiding light that might some day lead Russia back to her own deep roots.\n\nBrodsky was also deeply influenced by the English metaphysical poets from John Donne to Auden. Many works were dedicated to other writers such as Tomas Venclova, Octavio Paz, Robert Lowell, Derek Walcott, and Benedetta Craveri.\n\nBrodsky's work is seen to have been vitally enhanced by the work of renowned translators. \"A Part of Speech\" (New York and Oxford, 1980), his second major collection in English, includes translations by Anthony Hecht, Howard Moss, Derek Walcott and Richard Wilbur. Critic and poet Henri Cole notes that Brodsky's \"own translations have been criticized for turgidness, lacking a native sense of musicality.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2011 contemporary classical album Troika includes Eskender Bekmambetov's critically acclaimed song cycle \"there ...\", set to five of Joseph's Brodsky's Russian-language poems and his own translations of the poems into English. Victoria Poleva wrote \"Summer music\" (2008), a chamber cantata based on the verses by Brodsky for violin solo, children choir and Strings and \"Ars moriendi\" (1983–2012), 22 monologues about death for soprano and piano (two monologues based on the verses by Brodsky (\"Song\" and \"Empty circle\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31427769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31427769", "title": "Kiwix", "text": "Kiwix\n\nKiwix is a free and open-source offline web browser created by Emmanuel Engelhart and Renaud Gaudin in 2007. It was first launched to allow offline access to Wikipedia, but has since expanded to include other projects from the Wikimedia Foundation as well as public domain texts from the Project Gutenberg. Available in more than 100 languages, Kiwix has been included in several high-profile projects, from smuggling operations in North Korea and encyclopedic access in Cuba to Google Impact Challenge's recipient Bibliothèques Sans Frontières.\n\nFounder Emmanuel Engelhart sees Wikipedia as a common good, saying “The contents of Wikipedia should be available for everyone! Even without Internet access. This is why I have launched the Kiwix project.”\n\nAfter becoming a Wikipedia editor in 2004, Emmanuel Engelhart became interested in developing offline versions of Wikipedia. A , initiated in 2003, was a trigger for the project.\n\nIn 2012 Kiwix won a grant from Wikimedia France to build kiwix-plug, which was deployed in universities in eleven countries in the Afripedia Project, and in February 2013 Kiwix won SourceForge's Project of the Month award, - and an Open Source Award in 2015.\n\nThe incompatibility list includes iPhone OS 1, iPhone OS 2, iPhone OS 3, iOS 4, iOS 5, iOS 6, iOS 7, iOS 8 and is expected to continue throughout the product line on a chronological basis.\n\nThe software is designed as an offline reader for web content. It is used on computers without an internet connection, computers with a slow or expensive connection, and to avoid censorship. It can also be used while travelling (e.g. on a plane or train).\n\nUsers first download Kiwix, then download content for offline viewing with Kiwix (see picture). Compression saves disk space and bandwidth. All of English-language Wikipedia, with pictures, fits on a USB stick (54 GB as of May 2016, or 16 GB with no pictures).\n\nAll content files are compressed in ZIM format, which makes them smaller, but leaves them easy to index, search, and selectively decompress.\n\nThe ZIM files are then opened with Kiwix, which looks and behaves like a web browser. Kiwix offers full text search, tabbed navigation and the option to export articles to PDF and HTML.\n\nThere is an HTTP server version called kiwix-serve; this allows a computer to host Kiwix content, and make it available to other computers on a network. The other computers see an ordinary website. kiwix-plug is a version for plug computers which is often used to provide a wifi server.\n\nKiwix uses the deprecated Mozilla framework localised on Translatewiki.net, but plans to replace it.\n\nA list of content available on Kiwix is available for download, including language-specific sublists. Content can be loaded through Kiwix itself.\nSince 2014, most Wikipedia versions are available for download in various different languages. For English Wikipedia, a full version containing pictures as well as alternative version containing text only can be downloaded from the archive. This allows users to save disk space and bandwidth while downloading. The servers are updated every two to ten months, depending on the size of the file. For English Wikipedia, the update frequency is thus substantially lower than the bzip2 database downloads by the Wikimedia Foundation, which are updated twice a month.\n\nBesides Wikipedia, content from the Wikimedia foundation such as Wikisource, Wikiquote, Wikivoyage, Wikibooks and Wikiversity are available for offline viewing in various different languages.\n\nIn November 2014 a ZIM version of all open texts forming part of Project Gutenberg was made available.\n\nBesides public domain content, works licensed under a Creative Commons license are available for download. For example, offline versions of the Ubuntu wiki containing user documentation for the Ubuntu operating system, ZIM editions of TED conference talks and videos from Crash Course are available in the Kiwix archive as ZIM file formats.\n\nKiwix can be installed on a desktop computer as a stand-alone program, installed on a tablet or smartphone, or can create its own WLAN environment from a Raspberry plug.\nAs a software development project, Kiwix itself is not directly involved in deployment projects. However, third party organisations do use the software as a component of their own projects. Examples include:\n\n\nKiwix was formerly available in the native package managers of some Linux distributions. However, Kiwix is currently not available in most package databases, due to XULRunner, a program on which Kiwix depends, being deprecated by Mozilla and removed from the package databases. Kiwix is available in the Sugar and ArchLinux Linux distributions. It is also available on Android.\n\nKiwix is available in the Microsoft Store, on GooglePlay and iTunes. Since 2015, a series of \"customized apps\" have also been released, of which medical Wikipedia and PhET simulations are the two largest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9910525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9910525", "title": "LED lamp", "text": "LED lamp\n\nA LED lamp or LED light bulb is an electric light for use in light fixtures that produces light using light-emitting diode (LED). LED lamps have a lifespan many times longer than equivalent incandescent lamps, and are significantly more efficient than most fluorescent lamps, with some LED chips able to emit up to 303 lumens per watt (as claimed by Cree and some other LED manufacturers). However, LED lamps require an electronic LED driver circuit when operated from mains power lines, and losses from this circuit mean the efficiency of the lamp is lower than the efficiency of the LED chips it uses. The most efficient commercially available LED lamps have efficiencies of 200 lumens per watt (lm/w). Commercially available LED chips have efficiencies of over 220 lm/w. The LED lamp market is projected to grow by more than twelve-fold over the next decade, from $2 billion in the beginning of 2014 to $25 billion in 2023, a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 25%. , LEDs use only about 10% of the energy an incandescent lamp requires.\n\nSimilar to incandescent lamps and unlike most fluorescent lamps (e.g. tubes and compact fluorescent lamps or CFLs), LEDs come to full brightness without need for a warm-up time; the life of fluorescent lighting is also reduced by frequent switching on and off. The initial cost of LED is usually higher. Degradation of LED dye and packaging materials reduces light output to some extent over time.\n\nSome LED lamps are made to be a directly compatible drop-in replacement for incandescent or fluorescent lamps. An LED lamp packaging may show the lumen output, power consumption in watts, color temperature in kelvins or description (e.g. \"warm white\", \"cool white\" or \"daylight\"), operating temperature range, and sometimes the equivalent wattage of an incandescent lamp of similar luminous output.\n\nMost LEDs do not emit light in all directions, and their directional characteristics affect the design of lamps, although omnidirectional lamps which radiate light over a 360° angle are becoming more common. The light output of single LED is less than that of incandescent and compact fluorescent lamps; in most applications multiple LEDs are used to form a lamp, although high-power versions are becoming available.\n\nLEDs, as their name suggests, operate as diodes and run on direct current (DC), whereas mains current is alternating current (AC) and usually at much higher voltage than the LED can accept. Although low voltage LED lamps are available, LED lamps can contain a circuit for converting the mains AC into DC at the correct voltage. These circuits contain rectifiers, capacitors and may have other active electronic components, which may or may not permit the lamp to be dimmed.\n\nBefore the introduction of LED lamps, three types of lamps were used for the bulk of general (white) lighting: \nConsidered as electric energy converters, all these existing lamps are inefficient, emitting more of their input energy as waste heat than as visible light. Global electric lighting in 1997 consumed 2016 terawatthours of energy. Lighting consumes roughly 12% of electrical energy produced by industrialized countries. The increasing scarcity of energy resources, and the environmental costs of producing energy, particularly the discovery of global warming due to carbon emitted by the burning of fossil fuels, which are the largest source of energy for electric power generation, created an increased incentive to develop more energy-efficient electric lights.\n\nThe first low-powered LEDs were developed in the early 1960s, and only produced light in the low, red frequencies of the spectrum. The first high-brightness blue LED was demonstrated by Shuji Nakamura of Nichia Corporation in 1994. The existence of blue LEDs and high-efficiency LEDs led to the development of the first 'white LED', which employed a phosphor coating to partially convert the emitted blue light to red and green frequencies creating a light that appears white. Isamu Akasaki, Hiroshi Amano and Nakamura were later awarded the 2014 Nobel Prize in Physics for the invention of the blue LED.\n\nChina further boosted LED research and development in 1995 and demonstrated its first LED Christmas tree in 1998. The new LED technology application then became prevalent at the start of the 21st century by US (Cree) and Japan (Nichia, Panasonic, Toshiba, etc.) and then starting 2004 by Korea and China (Samsung, Kingsun, Solstice, Hoyol, etc.)\n\nIn the USA, the Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA) of 2007 authorized the Department of Energy (DOE) to establish the Bright Tomorrow Lighting Prize competition, known as the \"L Prize\", the first government-sponsored technology competition designed to challenge industry to develop replacements for 60 W incandescent lamps and PAR 38 halogen lamps. The EISA legislation established basic requirements and prize amounts for each of the two competition categories, and authorized up to $20 million in cash prizes. The competition also included the possibility for winners to obtain federal purchasing agreements, utility programs, and other incentives. In May 2008, they announced details of the competition and technical requirements for each category. Lighting products meeting the competition requirements could use just 17% of the energy used by most incandescent lamps in use today. That same year the DOE also launched the Energy Star program for solid-state lighting products. The EISA legislation also authorized an additional L Prize program for developing a new \"21st Century Lamp\".\n\nPhilips Lighting ceased research on compact fluorescents in 2008 and began devoting the bulk of its research and development budget to solid-state lighting. On 24 September 2009, Philips Lighting North America became the first to submit lamps in the category to replace the standard 60 W A-19 \"Edison screw fixture\" light bulb, with a design based on their earlier \"AmbientLED\" consumer product. On 3 August 2011, DOE awarded the prize in the 60 W replacement category to a Philips LED lamp after 18 months of extensive testing.\n\nEarly LED lamps varied greatly in chromaticity from the incandescent lamps they were replacing. A standard was developed, ANSI C78.377-2008, that specified the recommended color ranges for solid-state lighting products using cool to warm white LEDs with various correlated color temperatures. In June 2008, NIST announced the first two standards for solid-state lighting in the United States. These standards detail performance specifications for LED light sources and prescribe test methods for solid-state lighting products.\n\nAlso in 2008 in the United States and Canada, the Energy Star program began to label lamps that meet a set of standards for starting time, life expectancy, color, and consistency of performance. The intent of the program is to reduce consumer concerns due to variable quality of products, by providing transparency and standards for the labeling and usability of products available in the market. Energy Star Certified Light Bulbs is a resource for finding and comparing Energy Star qualified lamps. A similar program in the United Kingdom (run by the Energy Saving Trust) was launched to identify lighting products that meet energy conservation and performance guidelines.\n\nThe Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA) in 2008 published a documentary standard LM-79, which describes the methods for testing solid-state lighting products for their light output (lumens), efficacy (lumens per watt) and chromaticity.\n\nIn January 2009, it was reported that researchers at University of Cambridge had developed an LED lamp that costs £2 (about $3 U.S.), is 12 times as energy efficient as a tungsten lamp, and lasts for 100,000 hours.\n\n, in the opinion of Noah Horowitz of the Natural Resources Defense Council, new standards proposed by the United States Department of Energy would likely mean most light bulbs used in the future would be LED.\n\nIn 2008 Sentry Equipment Corporation in Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, US, was able to light its new factory interior and exterior almost solely with LEDs. Initial cost was three times that of a traditional mix of incandescent and fluorescent lamps, but the extra cost was recovered within two years via electricity savings, and the lamps should not need replacing for 20 years. In 2009 the Manapakkam, Chennai office of the Indian IT company, iGate, spent () to light of office space with LEDs. The firm expected the new lighting to pay for itself within 5 years.\n\nIn 2009 the exceptionally large Christmas tree standing in front of the Turku Cathedral in Finland was hung with 710 LED lamps, each using 2 watts. It has been calculated that these LED lamps paid for themselves in three and a half years, even though the lights run for only 48 days per year.\n\nIn 2009 a new highway (A29) was inaugurated in Aveiro, Portugal; it included the first European public LED-based lighting highway.\n\nBy 2010 mass installations of LED lighting for commercial and public uses were becoming common. LED lamps were used for a number of demonstration projects for outdoor lighting and LED street lights. The United States Department of Energy made several reports available on the results of many pilot projects for municipal outdoor lighting, and many additional streetlight and municipal outdoor lighting projects soon followed.\n\nLED lamps are often made with arrays of surface mount LED modules (SMD modules) that replace incandescent or compact fluorescent lamps, mostly replacing incandescent lamps rated from 5 to 60 watts.\n\nA significant difference from other light sources is that the light is more directional, i.e., emitted as a narrower beam.\n\nGeneral-purpose lighting requires white light. The first LEDs emitted light in a very narrow band of wavelengths, of a color characteristic of the energy band gap of the semiconductor material used to make the LED. LEDs that emit white light are made using two principal methods: either mixing light from multiple LEDs of various colors, or using a phosphor to convert some of the light to other colors.\n\nRGB or trichromatic white LEDs use multiple LED chips emitting red, green, and blue wavelengths. These three colors combine to produce white light. The color rendering index (CRI) is poor, typically 25 - 65, due to the narrow range of wavelengths emitted. Higher CRI values can be obtained using more than three LED colors to cover a greater range of wavelengths.\n\nThe second basic method uses LEDs in conjunction with a phosphor to produce complementary colors from a single LED. Some of the light from the LED is absorbed by the molecules of the phosphor, causing them to fluoresce, emitting light of another color via the Stokes shift. The most common method is to combine a blue LED with a yellow phosphor, producing a narrow range of blue wavelengths and a broad band of \"yellow\" wavelengths actually covering the spectrum from green to red. The CRI value can range from less than 70 to over 90, although a wide range of commercial LEDs of this type have a color rendering index around 82. Following successive increases in efficacy, which has reached 150 lm/W on a production basis as of 2017, this type has surpassed the performance of trichromatic LEDs.\n\nThe phosphors used in white light LEDs can give correlated color temperatures in the range of 2,200 K (dimmed incandescent) up to 7,000 K or more. Tunable lighting systems employ banks of colored LEDs that can be individually controlled, either using separate banks of each color, or multi-chip LEDs with the colors combined and controlled at the chip level. For example, white LEDs of different color temperatures can be combined to construct an LED bulb that decreases its color temperature when dimmed.\n\nLED chips require controlled direct current (DC) electrical power and an appropriate circuit as an LED driver is required to convert the alternating current from the power supply to the regulated voltage direct current used by the LEDs.\n\nLED drivers are the essential components of LED lamps or luminaries. A good LED driver can guarantee a long life for an LED system and provide additional features such as dimming and control. The LED drivers can be put inside the lamp or luminaire, which is called a built-in type, or be put outside, which is called an independent type. According to different applications, different types of LED drivers need to be applied; for example, an outdoor driver for street light, an indoor point driver for a down light, and an indoor linear driver for a panel light.\n\nCompared to other lighting systems LEDs must be kept cool as high temperatures can cause premature failure and reduced light output. Thermal management of high-power LEDs is required to keep the junction temperature close to ambient temperature. LED lamps typically include heat dissipation elements such as heat sinks and cooling fins and very high power lamps for industrial uses are frequently equipped with cooling fans.\n\nThe term \"efficiency droop\" refers to the decrease in luminous efficacy of LEDs as the electric current increases above tens of milliamps (mA). Instead of increasing current levels, luminance is usually increased by combining multiple LEDs in one lamp. Solving the problem of efficiency droop would mean that household LED lamps would require fewer LEDs, which would significantly reduce costs.\n\nIn addition to being less efficient, operating LEDs at higher electric currents creates higher heat levels which compromise the lifetime of the LED. Because of this increased heating at higher currents, high-brightness LEDs have an industry standard of operating at only 350 mA. 350 mA is a good compromise between light output, efficiency, and longevity.\n\nEarly suspicions were that the LED droop was caused by elevated temperatures. Scientists proved the opposite to be true — that, although the life of the LED would be shortened, elevated temperatures actually improved the efficiency of the LED. The mechanism causing efficiency droop was identified in 2007 as Auger recombination, which was taken with mixed reaction. In 2013, a study conclusively identified Auger recombination as the cause of efficiency droop.\n\nLED lamps are used for both general and special-purpose lighting. Where colored light is needed, LEDs that inherently emit light of a single color require no energy-absorbing filters.\n\nWhite-light LED lamps have longer life expectancy and higher efficiency (more light for the same electricity) than most other lighting when used at the proper temperature. LED sources are compact, which gives flexibility in designing lighting fixtures and good control over the distribution of light with small reflectors or lenses. Because of the small size of LEDs, control of the spatial distribution of illumination is extremely flexible, and the light output and spatial distribution of an LED array can be controlled with no efficiency loss.\n\nLEDs using the color-mixing principle can emit a wide range of colors by changing the proportions of light generated in each primary color. This allows full color mixing in lamps with LEDs of different colors. Unlike other lighting technologies, LED emission tends to be directional (or at least Lambertian), which can be either advantageous or disadvantageous, depending on requirements. For applications where non-directional light is required, either a diffuser is used, or multiple individual LED emitters are used to emit in different directions.\n\nLED lamps are made with standard lamp connections and shapes, such as an Edison screw base, an MR16 shape with a bi-pin base, or a GU5.3 (bi-pin cap) or GU10 (bayonet fitting) and are made compatible with the voltage supplied to the sockets. They include driver circuitry to rectify the AC power and convert the voltage to an appropriate value, usually a switched-mode power supply.\n\nSome models of LED lamps are compatible with dimmers as used for incandescent lamps. LED lamps often have directional light characteristics. These lamps are more power-efficient than compact fluorescent lamps and offer lifespans of 30,000 or more hours, reduced if operated at a higher temperature than specified. Incandescent lamps have a typical life of 1,000 hours, and compact fluorescents about 8,000 hours. The lamps maintain output light intensity well over their lifetimes. Energy Star specifications require the lamps to typically drop less than 10% after 6,000 or more hours of operation, and in the worst case not more than 15%. LED lamps are available with a variety of color properties. The purchase price is higher than most other lamps, but the higher efficiency may make total cost of ownership (purchase price plus cost of electricity and changing bulbs) lower.\nSeveral companies offer LED lamps for general lighting purposes. The technology is improving rapidly and new energy-efficient consumer LED lamps are available.\n\n, in the United States, LED lamps are close to being adopted as the mainstream light source because of the falling prices and because 40 and 60 watt incandescent lamps are being phased out. In the U.S. the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 effectively bans the manufacturing and importing of most current incandescent lamps. LED lamps have decreased substantially in pricing and many varieties are sold with subsidized prices from local utilities.\n\nLED tube lights are designed to physically fit in fixtures intended for fluorescent tubes. Some LED tubular lamps are intended to be a drop-in replacement into existing fixtures if appropriate ballast is used. Others require rewiring of the fixtures to remove the ballast. An LED tube lamp generally uses many individual Surface-Mounted LEDs which are directional and require proper orientation during installation as opposed to Fluorescent tube lamps which emit light in all directions around the tube. Most LED tube lights available can be used in place of T5, T8, T10, or T12 tube designations, T8 is D26mm, T10 is D30mm, in lengths of , and .\n\nNewer light fittings designed for LED lamps, or indeed with long-lived LEDs built-in, have been coming into use as the need for compatibility with existing fittings diminishes. Such lighting does not require each bulb to contain circuitry to operate from mains voltage.\n\nExperiments revealed surprising performance and production of vegetables and ornamental plants under LED light sources. A large number of plant species have been assessed in greenhouse trials to make sure that the quality of biomass and biochemical ingredients of such plants is comparable with, or even higher than, those grown in field conditions. Plant performance of mint, basil, lentil, lettuce, cabbage, parsley and carrot was measured by assessing both the health and vigor of the plants and the success of the LEDs in promoting growth. Also noticed was profuse flowering of select ornamentals including primula, marigold and stock.\n\nLight emitting diodes (LEDs) offer efficient electric lighting in desired wavelengths (red + blue) which support greenhouse production in minimum time and with high quality and quantity. As LEDs are cool, plants can be placed as close as possible to light sources without overheating or scorching. This saves a large amount of space for intense cultivation.\n\nWhite LED lamps have achieved market dominance in applications where high efficiency is important at low power levels. Some of these applications include flashlights, solar-powered garden or walkway lights, and bicycle lights. Monochromatic (colored) LED lamps are now commercially used for traffic signal lamps, where the ability to emit bright monochromatic light is a desired feature, and in strings of holiday lights. LED automotive lamps are widely used for their long life and small size (allowing for multiple bulbs), improving road safety. LED lamps are also becoming popular in homes, especially for bathroom and medicine cabinet lighting.\n\nIn recent years LED technology has come to dominate the outdoor lighting industry. Light emitting diodes (LEDs) in previous years were unable to output the light needed for the purpose of outdoor lighting, but that has changed in recent years. A study completed in 2014 concluded that color temperature and accuracy of LED lights was easily recognized by consumers, with preference going towards LEDs that output natural color temperatures. LEDs are now able to match the brightness and warmer color temperature that consumers desire from their outdoor lighting system.\n\n\"See luminous efficacy for an efficiency chart comparing various technologies.\"\n\n\nIn keeping with the long life claimed for LED lamps, long warranties are offered. However, currently there are no standardized testing procedures set by the Department of Energy in the United States to prove these assertions by each manufacturer. A typical domestic LED lamp is stated to have an \"average life\" of 15,000 hours (15 years at 3 hours/day), and to support 50,000 switch cycles.\n\nIncandescent and halogen lamps naturally have a power factor of 1, but Compact fluorescent and LED lamps use input rectifiers and this causes lower power factors. Low power factors can result in surcharges for commercial energy users; CFL and LED lamps are available with driver circuits to provide any desired power factor, or site-wide power factor correction can be performed. EU standards requires a power factor better than 0.5 for lamp powers up to 25 watts and above 0.9 for higher power lamps.\n\nEnergy Star is an international standard for energy efficient consumer products. Devices carrying the Energy Star service mark generally use 20–30% less energy than required by US standards.\n\nEnergy Star LED qualifications:\n\n\nTo qualify for Energy Star certification, LED lighting products must pass a variety of tests to prove that the products will display the following characteristics:\n\n\nMany will not work with existing dimmer switches designed for higher power incandescent lamps.\n\nColor rendering is not identical to incandescent lamps which emit close to perfect black-body radiation as that from the sun and for what eyes have evolved. A measurement unit called CRI is used to express how the light source's ability to render the eight color sample chips compare to a reference on a scale from 0 to 100. LEDs with CRI below 75 are not recommended for use in indoor lighting.\n\nLED lamps may flicker. The effect can be seen on a slow motion video of such a lamp. The extent of flicker is based on the quality of the DC power supply built into the lamp structure, usually located in the lamp base. Longer exposures to flickering light contribute to headaches and eye strain.\n\nLED life span drops at higher temperatures, which limits the power that can be used in lamps that physically replace existing filament and compact fluorescent types. Thermal management of high-power LEDs is a significant factor in design of solid state lighting equipment. LED lamps are sensitive to excessive heat, like most solid state electronic components. LED lamps should be checked for compatibility for use in totally or partially enclosed fixtures before installation as heat build-up could cause lamp failure and/or fire.\n\nThe long life of LEDs, expected to be about 50 times that of the most common incandescent lamps and significantly longer than fluorescent types, is advantageous for users but will affect manufacturers as it reduces the market for replacements in the distant future.\n\nThe human circadian rhythm can be affected by light sources. The effective color temperature of daylight is ~5,700K (bluish white) while tungsten lamps are ~2,700K (yellow). People who have circadian rhythm sleep disorders are sometimes treated with light therapy (exposure to intense bluish white light during the day) and dark therapy (wearing amber-tinted goggles at night to reduce bluish light).\n\nSome organizations recommend that people should not use bluish white lamps at night. The American Medical Association argues against using bluish white LEDs for municipal street lighting.\n\nResearch suggests that the shift to LED street lighting attracts 48% more flying insects than HPS lamps, which could cause direct ecological impacts as well as indirect impacts such as attracting more gypsy moths to port areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17033072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17033072", "title": "Laws regarding child sexual abuse", "text": "Laws regarding child sexual abuse\n\nLaws against child sexual abuse vary by country based on the local definition of who a child is and what constitutes child sexual abuse. Most countries in the world employ some form of age of consent, with sexual contact with an underage person being criminally penalized. As the age of consent to sexual behaviour varies from country to country, so too do definitions of child sexual abuse. An adult's sexual intercourse with a minor below the legal age of consent may sometimes be referred to as statutory rape, based on the principle that any apparent consent by a minor could not be considered legal consent.\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) is an international treaty that legally obligates nations to protect children's rights. Articles 34 and 35 of the CRC require states to protect children from all forms of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. This includes outlawing the coercion of a child to perform sexual activity, the prostitution of children, and the exploitation of children in creating pornography. States are also required to prevent the abduction, sale, or trafficking of children. As of December 2014, 195 countries have ratified the Convention, including every member of the United Nations except the United States and South Sudan.\n\nFiji has recently updated its legislative standards with the introduction of the Crimes Decree (2009). This removed gendered limitations that the Penal Code had held regarding victims and offenders. It updated the maximum sentence so that any offender can face a sentence of life imprisonment for the sexual assault of a person under the age of 13. Prior to this, female offenders could only receive a maximum sentence of up to seven years imprisonment. As well as this, it included the offence of penile-anal penetration, though it does still use the degrading terminology of \"sodomy\". Previously, the Penal Code only considered penile-vaginal penetration. There are still limitations in Fiji regarding child sexual assault, particularly in the criminal justice practices. The use of mediation between offender, victim and the surrounding families has great potential to revictimise and retraumatise the victim.\n\nThe Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences Act, 2012 regarding child sexual abuse has been passed by both the houses of the Indian Parliament in May 2012. The Act came into force from 14 November 2012.\n\nFew forms of child abuse are a crime under Malaysian law. Suspects can be charged only for rape (penile penetration) and incest.\nPolice can do little since the legal definition is limited. Malaysian courts seldom convict people for child sexual abuse, and Malaysia keeps no official statistics on child abuse.\n\nThe South African law on sexual offences was codified in the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007. Chapter 3 of the act deals with sexual offences against children. The act criminalises:\nThe act establishes a National Register for Sex Offenders which lists people convicted of sexual offences against children and the mentally disabled.\n\nTurkey's constitutional court decided in 2016 to annul the provision that punishes all sexual acts against children under the age of 15 as sexual abuse, according to opposition media. According to the government, they are preparing a new law more efficient against child abuse and the prohibition is still in place.\n\nThe United Kingdom rewrote its criminal code in the Sexual Offences Act of 2003. This Act includes definitions and penalties for child sexual abuse offences, and (so far as relating to offences) applies to England and Wales and Northern Ireland. The Scottish Law Commission published its review of rape and sexual offences in December 2007, which includes a similar consolidation and codification of child sexual abuse offences in Scotland.\n\nChild sexual abuse has been recognized specifically as a type of child encouragement in U.S. federal law since the initial Congressional hearings on child sex in 1973. Child sexual abuse is illegal in every state, as well as under federal law. Among the states, the specifics of child sexual abuse laws vary, but certain features of these laws are common to all states.\n\nIn Yemen, the law does not define child abuse.\n\nA recent June 30, 2008 landmark decision by judge, Philip Musonda, of the Zambian High Court gave a minor girl-student 45 million Zambian Kwacha in awards after she brought her teacher to court for statutory rape. This is the first case of its kind for a minor to win against a person of authority in the nation of Zambia.\n"}
{"id": "3544641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3544641", "title": "List of people pardoned by George W. Bush", "text": "List of people pardoned by George W. Bush\n\nThis is a list of people pardoned by George W. Bush. Bush, a Republican, served as the 43rd President of the United States from 2001 to 2009.\n\nThe pardon powers of the President are outlined in Article Two of the United States Constitution (Section 2, Clause 1), which provides:\n\n\n\nA list of people pardoned or granted clemency by the President of the United States, ordered by date of pardon or commutation, is available here: List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the President of the United States.\n\nDepartment of Justice Immediate Release\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "744965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=744965", "title": "List of police television dramas", "text": "List of police television dramas\n\nThis is a list of police television programs.\n\nDramas involving police procedural work, and private detectives, secret agents, and the justice system have been a mainstay of broadcast television since the early days of broadcasting. Shows that are not dramatic programming are indicated (e.g. reality television, comedy or comedy-drama).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50223327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50223327", "title": "Open ballot system", "text": "Open ballot system\n\nIn Nigeria, open ballot system, also known as Option A4, is a voting method in which voters vote openly by queuing or otherwise, indicating the candidate of their choice. This is as opposed to a secret ballot, where a voter's choices are confidential. The system minimizes incidences of election rigging that comes with the secret ballot system as well as other electoral fraudulent-related practices.\n\nThe open ballot system was the norm prior to Australia adopting the secret ballot in 1856. In modern times, the open ballot was first adopted in the Third Nigerian Republic during the 1993 Nigerian presidential election, an election that was widely regarded as the freest and fairest in the country's political history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "669964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=669964", "title": "Paris Peace Accords", "text": "Paris Peace Accords\n\nThe Paris Peace Accords, officially titled the Agreement on Ending the War and Restoring Peace in Vietnam, was a peace treaty signed on January 27, 1973, to establish peace in Vietnam and end the Vietnam War. The treaty included the governments of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (North Vietnam), the Republic of Vietnam (South Vietnam), and the United States, as well as the Provisional Revolutionary Government (PRG) that represented indigenous South Vietnamese revolutionaries. US ground forces up to that point had been sidelined with deteriorating morale, and gradually withdrawn to coastal regions, not partaking in offensive operations or much direct combat for the preceding two-year period. The Paris Agreement Treaty would in effect remove all remaining US Forces, including air and naval forces in exchange for Hanoi's POWs. Direct U.S. military intervention was ended, and fighting between the three remaining powers temporarily stopped for less than a day. The agreement was not ratified by the United States Senate.\n\nThe negotiations that led to the accord began in 1968, after various lengthy delays. As a result of the accord, the International Control Commission (ICC) was replaced by the International Commission of Control and Supervision (ICCS) to fulfill the agreement. The main negotiators of the agreement were United States National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger and North Vietnamese politburo member Lê Đức Thọ; the two men were awarded the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts, although Lê Đức Thọ refused to accept it.\n\nThe agreement's provisions were immediately frequently broken with no response from the United States. Fighting broke out in March 1973, and North Vietnamese offenses enlarged their control by the end of the year. Two years later, a massive North Vietnamese offensive conquered South Vietnam.\n\nThe document began with the statement that \"the United States and all other countries respect the independence, sovereignty, unity, and territorial integrity of Vietnam as recognized by the 1954 Geneva Agreements on Vietnam\". The inclusion of this provision was a victory for the communist side —Saigon and the Vietcong—towards a political settlement that would allow the South Vietnamese people to \"decide themselves the political future of South Viet-Nam through genuinely free and democratic general elections under international supervision.\"\n\nFollowing the success of anti-war candidate Eugene McCarthy in the New Hampshire primary, in March 1968 U.S (although McCarthy accumulated only 42% the vote to President Johnson's 49%). President Lyndon B. Johnson halted bombing operations over the northern portion of the North Vietnam (Operation Rolling Thunder), in order to encourage Hanoi (the perceived locus of the insurgency) to begin negotiations. Although some sources state that the bombing halt decision announced on March 31, 1968 was related to events occurring within the White House and the Presidents counsel of Secretary of Defense Clark Clifford and others rather than the events in New Hampshire. Shortly thereafter, Hanoi agreed to discuss a complete halt of the bombing, and a date was set for representatives of both parties to meet in Paris, France. The sides first met on May 10, with the delegations headed by Xuân Thuỷ, who would remain the official leader of the North Vietnamese delegation throughout the process, and U.S. ambassador-at-large W. Averell Harriman.\n\nFor five months, the negotiations stalled as North Vietnam demanded that all bombing of North Vietnam be stopped, while the U.S. side demanded that North Vietnam agree to a reciprocal de-escalation in South Vietnam; it was not until October 31 that Johnson agreed to end the air strikes and serious negotiations could begin.\n\nOne of the largest hurdles to effective negotiation was the fact that North Vietnam and the National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam (NLF, or Viet Cong) in the South, refused to recognize the government of South Vietnam; with equal persistence, the government in Saigon refused to acknowledge the legitimacy of the NLF. Harriman resolved this dispute by developing a system by which North Vietnam and U.S. would be the named parties; NLF officials could join the North Vietnam team without being recognized by South Vietnam, while Saigon's representatives joined their U.S. allies.\n\nA similar debate concerned the shape of the table to be used at the conference. The North favored a circular table, in which all parties, including NLF representatives, would appear to be \"equal\"' in importance. The South Vietnamese argued that only a rectangular table was acceptable, for only a rectangle could show two distinct sides to the conflict. Eventually a compromise was reached, in which representatives of the northern and southern governments would sit at a circular table, with members representing all other parties sitting at individual square tables around them.\n\nBryce Harlow, a former White House staff member in the Eisenhower administration, claimed to have \"a double agent working in the White House...I kept Nixon informed.\" Harlow and Henry Kissinger (who was friendly with both campaigns and guaranteed a job in either a Humphrey or Nixon administration in the upcoming election) separately predicted Johnson's \"bombing halt\". Democratic senator George Smathers informed President Johnson that \"the word is out that we are making an effort to throw the election to Humphrey. Nixon has been told of it\".\n\nAccording to presidential historian Robert Dallek, Kissinger's advice \"rested not on special knowledge of decision making at the White House but on an astute analyst's insight into what was happening.\" CIA intelligence analyst William Bundy stated that Kissinger obtained \"no useful inside information\" from his trip to Paris, and \"almost any experienced Hanoi watcher might have come to the same conclusion\". While Kissinger may have \"hinted that his advice was based on contacts with the Paris delegation,\" this sort of \"self-promotion...is at worst a minor and not uncommon practice, quite different from getting and reporting real secrets.\"\n\nNixon asked the prominent Asian-American politician Anna Chennault to be his \"channel to Mr. Thieu\"; Chennault agreed and periodically reported to John Mitchell that Thieu had no intention of attending a peace conference. On November 2, Chennault informed the South Vietnamese ambassador: \"I have just heard from my boss in Albuquerque who says his boss [Nixon] is going to win. And you tell your boss [Thieu] to hold on a while longer.\" In response, President Johnson ordered the wire-tapping of members of the Nixon campaign. Dallek wrote that Nixon's efforts \"probably made no difference\" because Thieu was unwilling to attend the talks and there was little chance of an agreement being reached before the election; however, his use of information provided by Harlow and Kissinger was morally questionable, and vice president Hubert Humphrey's decision not to make Nixon's actions public was \"an uncommon act of political decency.\"\n\nAfter winning the 1968 presidential election, Richard Nixon became president of the U.S. in January 1969. He then replaced U.S. ambassador Harriman with Henry Cabot Lodge Jr., who was later replaced by David Bruce. Also that year, the NLF set up a Provisional Revolutionary Government (PRG) to gain government status at the talks. However, the primary negotiations that led to the agreement did not occur at the Peace Conference at all, but were carried out during secret negotiations between Kissinger and Lê Đức Thọ, which began on August 4, 1969.\n\nNorth Vietnam insisted for three years that the agreement could not be concluded unless the United States agreed to remove South Vietnamese President Nguyễn Văn Thiệu from power and replace him with someone more acceptable to Hanoi. Nixon and Kissinger were unwilling to sign an agreement to overthrow a government the NLF had failed to overthrow by force of arms, though the extent of North Vietnamese demands is contested. Historian Marilyn B. Young, contends that the contents of Hanoi's proposal were systematically distorted from their original plea to \"permit\" Thiệu's replacement, to what Kissinger propagated as a demand for his overthrow.\n\nOn May 8, 1972, President Nixon made a major concession to North Vietnam by announcing that the U.S. would accept a cease-fire in place as a precondition for its military withdrawal. In other words, the U.S. would withdraw its forces from South Vietnam without North Vietnam doing the same. The concession broke a deadlock and resulted in progress in the talks over the next few months.\n\nThe final major breakthrough came on October 8, 1972. Prior to this, North Vietnam had been disappointed by the results of its \"Nguyen Hue Offensive\" (known in the West as the Easter Offensive), which had resulted in the United States countering with \"Operation Linebacker,\" a significant air bombing campaign that blunted the North's drive in the South as well as inflicting damage in the North. Also, they feared increased isolation if Nixon's efforts at détente significantly improved U.S. relations with the chief communist powers, the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China, who were backing the North Vietnamese military effort. In a meeting with Kissinger, Thọ significantly modified his bargaining line, allowing that the Saigon government could remain in power and that negotiations between the two South Vietnamese parties could develop a final settlement. Within 10 days the secret talks drew up a final draft. Kissinger held a press conference in Washington during which he announced that \"peace is at hand.\"\n\nWhen Thiệu, who had not even been informed of the secret negotiations, was presented with the draft of the new agreement, he was furious with Kissinger and Nixon (who were perfectly aware of South Vietnam's negotiating position) and refused to accept it without significant changes. He then made several public radio addresses, claiming that the proposed agreement was worse than it actually was. Hanoi was flabbergasted, believing that it had been duped into a propaganda ploy by Kissinger. On October 26, Radio Hanoi broadcast key details of the draft agreement.\n\nHowever, as U.S. casualties had mounted throughout the conflict since 1965, American domestic support for the war had deteriorated, and by the fall of 1972 there was major pressure on the Nixon administration to withdraw from the war. Consequently, the U.S. brought great diplomatic pressure upon their South Vietnamese ally to sign the peace treaty even if the concessions Thiệu wanted could not be achieved. Nixon pledged to provide continued substantial aid to South Vietnam, and given his recent landslide victory in the presidential election, it seemed possible that he would be able to follow through on that pledge. To demonstrate his seriousness to Thiệu, Nixon ordered the heavy Operation Linebacker II bombings of North Vietnam in December 1972. Nixon also attempted to bolster South Vietnam's military forces by ordering that large quantities of U.S. military material and equipment be given to South Vietnam from May to December 1972 under Operations Enhance and Enhance Plus. These operations were also designed to keep North Vietnam at the negotiating table and to prevent them from abandoning negotiations and seeking total victory. When the North Vietnamese government agreed to resume \"technical\" discussions with the United States, Nixon ordered a halt to bombings north of the 20th parallel on December 30. With the U.S. committed to disengagement (and after threats from Nixon that South Vietnam would be abandoned if he did not agree), Thiệu had little choice but to accede.\n\nOn January 15, 1973, President Nixon announced a suspension of offensive actions against North Vietnam. Kissinger and Thọ met again on January 23 and signed off on a treaty that was basically identical to the draft of three months earlier. The agreement was signed by the leaders of the official delegations on January 27, 1973, at the Hotel Majestic in Paris, France.\n\nThe Paris Peace Accords effectively removed the U.S. from the conflict in Vietnam. However, the agreement's provisions were routinely flouted by both the North Vietnamese and the South Vietnamese government, eliciting no response from the United States, and ultimately resulting in the communists enlarging the area under their control by the end of 1973. North Vietnamese military forces gradually built up their military infrastructure in the areas they controlled and two years later were in a position to launch the successful offensive that ended South Vietnam's status as an independent country. Fighting begun almost immediately in its aftermath due to a series of mutual retaliations, and war had come again in March 1973.\n\nNixon had secretly promised Thiệu that he would use airpower to support the South Vietnamese government should it be necessary. During his confirmation hearings in June 1973, Secretary of Defense James Schlesinger was sharply criticized by some senators after he stated that he would recommend resumption of U.S. bombing in North Vietnam if North Vietnam launched a major offensive against South Vietnam, but by August 15, 1973, 95% of American troops and their allies had left Vietnam (both North and South) as well as Cambodia and Laos under the Case-Church Amendment. The amendment, which was approved by the U.S. Congress in June 1973, prohibited further U.S. military activity in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia unless the president secured Congressional approval in advance. However, during this time, Nixon was being driven from office due to the Watergate scandal, which led to his resignation in 1974. When the North Vietnamese began their final offensive early in 1975, U.S. Congress refused to appropriate additional military assistance for South Vietnam, citing strong opposition to the war by Americans and the loss of American equipment to the North by retreating Southern forces. Thiệu subsequently resigned, accusing the U.S. of betrayal in a TV and radio address:\n\nSaigon fell to the North Vietnamese army supported by Viet Cong units on April 30, 1975. Schlesinger had announced early in the morning of April 29 the beginning of Operation Frequent Wind, which entailed the evacuation of the last U.S. diplomatic, military and civilian personnel from Saigon via helicopter, which was completed in the early morning hours of April 30. Not only did North Vietnam conquer South Vietnam, but the communists were also victorious in Cambodia when the Khmer Rouge captured Phnom Penh on April 17, as were the Pathet Lao in Laos successful in capturing Vientiane on December 2. Like Saigon, U.S. civilian and military personnel were evacuated from Phnom Penh, U.S. diplomatic presence in Vientiane was significantly downgraded, and the number of remaining U.S. personnel was severely reduced.\n\n\n\n“Les Accords de Paris, quarante ans plus tard, un film de Rina Sherman” documentary by Rina Sherman (HD, 71 min).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49879674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49879674", "title": "Petition for review", "text": "Petition for review\n\nIn some jurisdictions, a petition for review is a formal request for an appellate tribunal to review the decision of a lower court or administrative body. If a jurisdiction utilizes petitions for review, then parties seeking appellate review of their case may submit a formal petition for review to an appropriate court. In United States federal courts, the term \"petition for review\" is also used to describe petitions that seek review of federal agency actions.\n\nIn jurisdictions that utilize petitions for review, parties may file a petition in an appellate tribunal that asks the appellate tribunal to determine whether the previous court or tribunal reached the correct outcome. In some jurisdictions, appellate tribunals will not rule on issues that are not raised in petitions for review. Some courts also prohibit parties from filing other motions (such as a motion for summary judgment) when they file petitions for review. Because United States \"habeas corpus\" law requires petitioners for writs of \"habeas corpus\" to have exhausted state court remedies if they were convicted by a state court, \"habeas\" petitioners must first file a petition for review in the highest court in the state in which they were convicted, and raise all applicable issues, before filing a petition for writ of \"habeas corpus\" in federal court. However, in some cases, appellants may pursue issues on appeal by filing both a petition for review as well as a petition for writ of \"habeas corpus\".\n\nIn the common law tradition, only the Court of Chancery had the power to grant prerogative writs that directed inferior tribunals to send a record of proceedings to a higher court for review. Beginning in the sixteenth century, the Court of King's Bench also gained the power to issue prerogative writs. Over time, the power to grant \"certiorari\" became the power to grant an order as \"a means of controlling inferior courts and persons and bodies having authority to determine issues affecting the rights of individuals\". However, writs of \"certiorari\" are traditionally only used when \"the inferior body has acted without jurisdiction or determined an issue wrongly in law, but not on the ground that it had misconceived a point of law if it had jurisdiction and the proceedings are \"ex facie\" regular, nor on the ground that its decision is wrong in fact\". In England, the Administrative Court (part of the Queen's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice) now issues \"quashing orders\" rather than writs of \"certiorari\". In the United States, the Supreme Court of the United States grants writs of \"certiorari\" \"to review questions of law or to correct errors or excesses by lower courts\". However, some state courts in the United States require parties seeking appellate review to submit petitions for review, instead of petitions for \"certiorari\", where the appellate tribunal grants an order that allows for review of the inferior tribunal's decision.\n\nIn United States federal courts, parties may seek review or enforcement of federal agency order by filing a petition for review in a United States circuit court of appeals that has jurisdiction to review decisions from that agency. The court actions of enjoining, suspending and/or modifying the agency order is inherently part of a petition for review. When a party submits a petition for review, the petitioner \"must either identify in [the administrative] record evidence sufficient to support its standing to seek review or, if there is none because standing was not an issue before the agency, submit additional evidence to the court of appeals\". Once one party has filed a petition review, other parties may also file \"cross petitions for review\", which also seek review of some or all of the issues decided by the lower court. The reviewing court may vacate the agency's actions, it may vacate the action and remand the case to the agency for \"further action or explanation\", it may remand the case without vacating the decision, or it may dismiss the petition for review.\n\n"}
{"id": "30840572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30840572", "title": "Police Act 1967", "text": "Police Act 1967\n\nThe Police Act 1967 () is the Act of Parliament governing which governs the constitution, control, employment, recruitment, funds, discipline, duties, and powers of the Royal Malaysia Police including Royal Malaysia Police Reserve and the Royal Malaysia Police Cadet Corps. It was first enacted in 1967 (Act 41 of 1967) and then revised in 1988 as Act 344 of 1988. To date, there have been several attempts of amendments for the Police Act to be more in line with the internationally accepted human rights practices.\n\nIn June 2008, there was an attempt to amend the Section 27 which did not specify the criteria and guideline to the conditions needed for permits to hold public rallies to reflect international standards. The attempted amendment was in line with proposals by the Royal Commission to Enhance the Management and Operation of the Royal Malaysia Police. Home Minister Syed Hamid Syed Jaafar Albar said the ministry agreed that applications for public rally permits must be made nine days before the date of the event and that the decision be made in three days. \n\nThe Police Act has been a subject of argument as it, to certain extent, inhibits the freedom of assembly. Its allowance for the police to detain without warrant has been a constant watch by international human rights organisations. In the discussion of human rights, especially the freedom of assembly, the Police Act is often cited together with other acts such as Internal Security Act, Official Secrets Act and Public Order (Preservation) Ordinance (1958) of which some allow police detention without warrant.\n\nIt specifies the scope of the duties of the Royal Malaysia Police. In the Section 3 (3) of Police Act 1967 stipulates that the duties of the Royal Malaysia Police personnel are as follows:\n\n\nThe Police Act 1967, in its current form (24 August 2015), consists of 14 Parts containing 100 sections and 3 schedules (including 9 amendments).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31230606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31230606", "title": "Professional conduct", "text": "Professional conduct\n\nProfessional conduct is the field of regulation of members of professional bodies, either acting under statutory or contractual powers.\n\nHistorically, professional conduct was wholly undertaken by the private professional bodies, the sole legal authority for which was of a contractual nature. These bodies commonly established codes of conduct and ethical codes for the guidance of their members.\n\nIn certain areas, where the public interest is considered to be heavily engaged, legislation has been enacted, either replacing professional regulation by statutory legislation, or by a form of supervision of the professional body by a statutory body.\n\nThe Council of Bars and Law Societies of Europe (CCBE) is the representative organisation of European lawyers through its member bars and law societies from 31 full member countries, and 11 further associate and observer countries. The CCBE has issued a Charter of core principles of the European legal profession and Code of Conduct for European lawyers. Activities include a committee on Deontology and a working group on Professional Indemnity Insurance.\n\nThe European Council of Civil Engineers (ECCE) aims to promote the highest technical and ethical standards, to provide a source of impartial advice, and promote co-operation with other pan-European organisations in the construction industry. The ECCE formulates standards for a European Code of Conduct of the Civil Engineering Profession and disciplinary procedures applicable throughout the Union. Other activities include the preparation of a review of the civil engineering profession in Europe, covering, e.g., demand for liability insurance.\n\nThe Council of European Geodetic Surveyors (CLGE) represents the interests of the geodetic surveying profession in the private and public sector from 31 countries of Europe. As of September 2009, the CLGE adopted the CLGE Code of Conduct of the European Surveyor and initiated the ratification process amongst members. It 'highly recommends that European surveyors hold\nprofessional indemnity insurance'.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, where a professional body is a public body within the meaning of the Human Rights Act 1998 (such as is the case with medicine, the legal profession, and financial services), its professional conduct machinery must conform to the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14237485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14237485", "title": "Qualified Performing Artist Deduction", "text": "Qualified Performing Artist Deduction\n\nIn United States tax law, certain performing artists are eligible to deduct the expenses incurred in the course of their employment by § 62(a)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code. This is an \"above the line\" deduction, meaning that it is used while computing a taxpayer's Adjusted Gross Income. It is an exception to the general rule, which requires job-related expenses to be a miscellaneous itemized deduction subject to the \"2% haircut\" rule of itemized deductions. As such, it is a favorable tax situation for the performing artist taxpayer.\n\nTo qualify for this deduction, a taxpayer must fit certain criteria:\n\nIn determining who his or her \"employers\" were for purposes of this statute, the taxpayer must only consider those employers that paid the taxpayer an amount equal to or greater than $200 for the taxpayer's performance. See I.R.C. § 62(b)(2). As a result of this, relatively unknown artists who are paid less than $200 per performance are not allowed to take this exception. Artists who are sometimes paid an amount equal to or greater than $200 and other times paid less than that amount can only claim the instances on which he or she received over $200.\n\nOn the opposite end of the spectrum, artists who have an AGI more than $16,000 in a taxable year before this deduction are not allowed to take this deduction. This excludes well-known performing artists who make a large amount of income from playing shows from deducting their income therefrom.\n\nThis $16,000 cap has not been raised since 1986, meaning very few artists actually take advantage of the deduction due to inflation. The deduction was intended for performers who pay their own airfare to and from engagements and who have the difficulty of spreading deductions over schedule C and schedule A.\n\nAdditionally, any taxpayer who attempts to claim this deduction must either be single or married filing jointly. See I.R.C. § 62(b)(3).\n\nI.R.C. § 162(a) for further information on deduction of business expenses.\n"}
{"id": "1125666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1125666", "title": "Right of initiative (legislative)", "text": "Right of initiative (legislative)\n\nThe right of (legislative) initiative is the constitutionally defined power to propose a new law (bill).\n\nThe right of initiative is usually attributed to parliaments, which in most countries have the right to make law proposals, alone or sharing this right with the government.\n\nIn parliamentary systems it is common that both the government (executive) and the parliament have legislative initiative, but it also can be restricted to the government and the lower house of parliament, or even to the government alone.\n\nIn presidential systems legislative initiative usually only rests with the congress, such as in the United States. This, however, does not preclude the executive from suggesting the introduction of certain laws to their backers in the congress.\n\nIn France, ministerial bills are called \"law projects\" and parliament's bills are called \"law proposals\".\n\nIn France, bills are proposed by the government. One of the ministers propose the bill to those concerned by his or her application. Then, if the different ministers agree, the bill is sent to the \"\" and then to the Conseil d'État, the Council of Ministers, Parliament, and so on...\nThe Conseil d'État (and sometimes the Constitutional Council) has the duty to advise the government on projects of law.\n\nAny MP can propose a law to Parliament.\nLaw proposals, unlike law projects, can be directly deposed if they do not increase the state's expenditure.\n\nBoth kind of bills can first be deposed either to the Senate or the National Assembly\n\nOnly 10% of laws that are passed are proposed by Members of Parliament.\nThis is mainly because the government has several means to limit the power of Parliament :\n\nThe legislative initiative of Parliament has both good and bad points.\nThe principal criticism is that \"lobbies\" could persuade Parliament to satisfy them before other citizens.\nOn the other hand, legislative initiative is the best way for Parliament to defend itself against possible encroachments to its power.\n\nThe European Commission has the right of legislative initiative. However, under the Treaty of Maastricht enhanced by the Lisbon Treaty, the European Parliament has an indirect right of legislative initiative that allows it to ask the Commission to submit a proposal. Member states also have the right of legislative initiative concerning the Common Foreign and Security Policy.\nIn fact under 20% of all legislative proposals come from the commission. Others proposals made by the Commission are initially requested by the member states, the parliament, or other organizations, for example NGOs). \n\nSome politicians, including Jean-Pierre Chevènement and Dominique Strauss-Kahn, feel that the Commission's monopoly on legislative initiative prevents the emergence or development of real democratic debate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18649602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18649602", "title": "Roy Simon", "text": "Roy Simon\n\nRoy D. Simon is the Howard Lichtenstein Distinguished Professor of Legal Ethics at Hofstra University.\n\nHe was the 2008 Democratic Party nominee for the New York State Senate, running against then-Republican State Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos. He currently resides in West Hempstead and ran to be the State Senator representing the Ninth District in Long Island. Some of these communities include the Five Towns, Valley Stream, Rockville Centre, and others. Political pundits acknowledged that it would be difficult to oust Dean Skelos.\n\nSimon attended Williams College for his undergraduate degree and NYU Law School for his JD. He started his academic work as an instructor the Washington University in St. Louis School of Law.\n"}
{"id": "15331389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15331389", "title": "Ruth Maier", "text": "Ruth Maier\n\nRuth Maier (10 November 1920 in Vienna, Austria – 1 December 1942 in Auschwitz, Poland) was an Austrian woman whose diaries describing her experiences of the Holocaust in Austria and Norway were published in 2007; reviews described her as \"Norway's Anne Frank.\"\n\nRuth Maier was born in Vienna to a largely assimilated Jewish family. Her father, Ludwig Maier, held a doctorate in philosophy, was a polyglot (mastering nine languages), and held a senior position within the Austrian post and telegraph service. He died in 1933 of erysipelas. Her first cousin, who survived the war, was the philosopher Stephan Körner.\n\nHer younger sister Judith managed to escape to the United Kingdom. Through her father's contacts, Ruth was able to find refuge in Norway, where she arrived by train on 30 January 1939. She was housed for some time with a Norwegian family. She became fluent in Norwegian within a year, completed her examen artium, and befriended the future poet Gunvor Hofmo at a volunteer work camp in Biri. The two became inseparable, finding lodging and work in various places in Norway.\n\nRuth was also one of the models for the statue \"Surprised\", by Gustav Vigeland. It is on permanent display in Frogner Park in Oslo. Vigeland began work on the sculpture about 1904. \nThe model for the face of the sculpture was Inga Syvertsen; the sculpture was completed in 1942. Maier was surprised by another person entering the room while she was modelling for Vigeland, and she tried to cover her naked body, hence the posture. The statue was eventually cast in bronze in 2002. Additionally Ruth was a model for Norwegian painter Åsmund Esval.\n\nShe rented a room in Dalbergstien 3 in Oslo in the early fall of 1942 and was arrested on 26 November 1942 and deported on the SS \"Donau\" the same day. Arriving in Auschwitz on 1 December 1942, she was led straight into the gas chambers. She lived to be 22.\n\nHer close friend Gunvor Hofmo kept Ruth's diaries and much of her correspondence. She approached Gyldendal to get them published in 1953, but was turned down. After she died in 1995, Jan Erik Vold went through her papers and came upon Ruth Maier's works. After editing them for ten years, they were published in 2007. Vold was highly impressed by the literary value of the diaries, comparing Ruth Maier's literary talent to that of Hannah Arendt and Susan Sontag. The book was translated into English by Jamie Bulloch in 2009.\n\nMost of Ruth's diary is preserved from 1933 to 1942. She wrote in her diary about the deteriorating conditions for Austria's Jewish population following the Anschluss in 1938, her reaction to the many changes in her life, and her yearning for her family.\n\nIn a speech issued on 27 January 2012 on the occasion of International Holocaust Remembrance Day Prime Minister of Norway Jens Stoltenberg issued an official apology for the role played by Norwegians in the deportations. As reported on the official website of the Norwegian Government, Stoltenberg delivered his speech at the dock in the capital Oslo where 532 Jews boarded the cargo ship Donau on 26 November 1942, bound for Nazi camps. Stoltenberg said:\n\nIn 2015 Klassekampen printed a facsimile of her piece [\"graveyard/Our Saviour\"] \"\"Kirkegård/Vår Frelser\" in an article about the exhibition (until 23 August) at Bomuldsfabrikken Kunsthall in Arendal: \"Krigsbilder. Kunst under okkupasjonen 1940—45\"\", adding that \"Sensitive impressions of nature and cityscapes in aquarell, testify to an independent talent.\"\n"}
{"id": "5402001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5402001", "title": "Special Order 191", "text": "Special Order 191\n\nSpecial Order 191 (series 1862) (the \"Lost Dispatch,\" and the \"Lost Order\") was a general movement order issued by Confederate Army General Robert E. Lee on about September 9, 1862 during the Maryland Campaign of the American Civil War. A lost copy of this order was recovered in Frederick County, Maryland, by Union Army troops, and the subsequent military intelligence gained by the Union played an important role in the Battle of South Mountain and Battle of Antietam.\n\nThe order was drafted on or about September 9, 1862, during the Maryland Campaign. It gave details of the movements of the Army of Northern Virginia during the early days of its invasion of Maryland. Lee divided his army, which he planned to regroup later: according to the precise text Maj. Gen. Stonewall Jackson was to move his command to Martinsburg while McLaws's command and Walker's command \"endeavored to capture Harpers Ferry.\" Maj. Gen. James Longstreet was to move his command northward to Boonsborough. D. H. Hill's division was to act as rear guard on the march from Frederick.\n\nLee delineated the routes and roads to be taken and the timing for the investment of Harpers Ferry. Adjutant Robert H. Chilton penned copies of the letter and endorsed them in Lee's name. Staff officers distributed the copies to various Confederate generals. Jackson in turn copied the document for one of his subordinates, Maj. Gen. D. H. Hill, who was to exercise independent command as the rear guard. Hill said the only copy he received was the one from Jackson.\n\nAbout noon on September 13, Corporal Barton W. Mitchell of the 27th Indiana Volunteers, part of the Union XII Corps, discovered an envelope with three cigars wrapped in a piece of paper lying in the grass at a campground that Hill had just vacated. Mitchell realized the significance of the document and turned it in to Sergeant John M. Bloss. They went to Captain Peter Kopp, who sent it to regimental commander Colonel Silas Colgrove, who carried it to the corps headquarters. There, an aide to Brig. Gen. Alpheus S. Williams recognized the signature of R. H. Chilton, the assistant adjutant general who had signed the order. Williams's aide, Colonel Samuel Pittman, recognized Chilton's signature because Pittman frequently paid drafts drawn under Chilton's signature before the war. Pittman worked for a Detroit bank during the period when Chilton was paymaster at a nearby army post. Williams forwarded the dispatch to Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan, the commander of the Army of the Potomac. McClellan was overcome with glee at learning planned Confederate troop movements and reportedly exclaimed, \"Now I know what to do!\" He confided to a Brigader General John Gibbon, \"Here is a paper with which, if I cannot whip Bobby Lee, I will be willing to go home.\"\n\nMcClellan stopped Lee's invasion at the subsequent Battle of Antietam, but many military historians believe he failed to fully exploit the strategic advantage of the intelligence because he was concerned about a possible trap (posited by Maj. Gen. Henry W. Halleck) or gross overestimation of the strength of Lee's army.\n\nThe hill on the Best farm where the lost order was discovered is located outside of Frederick, Maryland, and was a key Confederate artillery position in the 1864 Battle of Monocacy. A historical marker on the Monocacy National Battlefield commemorates the finding of Special Order 191 during the Maryland Campaign.\n\nCorporal Mitchell, who found the orders, was subsequently wounded in the leg at Antietam and was discharged in 1864 due to the resulting chronic infection. He died in 1868 at the age of 52.\n\nIn Harry Turtledove's \"Southern Victory Series\" alternate history novels, the point of divergence with recorded history is that the order is not discovered by Union troops, but is instead recovered by a trailing Confederate soldier. Without it, McClellan is unable to find Lee's army and the Battle of South Mountain Gap and Antietam are not fought. Lee reaches Philadelphia and forces McClellan to fight in an unfavorable position. The Confederate States of America is able to crush the Army of the Potomac at Camp Hill, securing with the win support from the United Kingdom and France, so the Emancipation Proclamation never occurs, and the Union is forced to give the Confederate States independence. The USA and CSA with their allies (the USA eventually allies with the German-led World War I-era Central Powers while the CSA allies with the Anglo-French-led Entente Powers) go on to fight three more bloody wars, first being the fictional Second Mexican War and the last two wars being the Great War and the Second Great War. In \"What If?\" and \"What Ifs? of American History\", the scenario \"If the Lost Order Hadn't Been Lost\" by James M. McPherson also has a similar conclusion to Turtledove with Robert E. Lee advancing up to Pennsylvania and winning the decisive victory in an early version of the Battle of Gettysburg which has McClellan killed and the Union is forced to negotiate peace to the Confederates with British and French recognition of the Confederacy as an independent nation as well as the Copperheads winning the 1862 elections by January 1863.\n\nUnion troops not discovering the order is also the point of divergence for the alternate reality superhero comic book series \"Captain Confederacy\".\n\nBernard Cornwell's novel \"The Bloody Ground\", part of the \"Starbuck Chronicles\", fictionalizes the events and lead-up of Antietam, in which the order is central to the drama in the lead-up to the battle and an explanation is offered for how it ended up discarded in the field.\n\n"}
{"id": "55311656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55311656", "title": "Tanzania Media Service Act, 2016", "text": "Tanzania Media Service Act, 2016\n\nThe Government of United Republic of Tanzania has enacted four Acts concerning with the control of freedom and regulation of media in the country. These are The Cybercrimes Act, 2015, The Statistics Act, 2013, The Media Services Act, 2015, and The Access to Information Act, 2015. The Government of the Republic of Tanzania on one side claims that the four Acts were highly needed to facilitate access to information and control the media sector. Political analysts, activists and normal people on the other side criticized that the Acts will pessimistically affect the freedom of media and eventually the freedom of speech of citizens. The Acts give the Minister responsible for information the power to ban any media which may seems to report, publish, print or broadcast information contrary to the code of conducts or threaten peace in the state. \n\nThe Media Services Act, 2016, was enacted in 2016 by the parliament of the united republic of Tanzania on 5 November 2016 and signed by President John Pombe Magufuli just two weeks later. The Act replaced the then restrictive Newspaper Act of 1976. The Expectation to many people was that, the Act would to become an updated media law that will obey to international conventions like United Nation Declaration of Human rights (UNDHR), East African Community Treaty and others on citizen liberty to access information but unexpectedly the Acts seems to many as depriving of civil constitutional rights like freedom of expression and freedom of getting information.\n\nThe Media Council of Tanzania (MCT), Legal and Human Right Centre (LHRC), and Tanzania Human Rights Defenders Coalition (THRDC) on 11th of January 2017 filed a petition at the East African Court of Justice (EACJ) to challenge the newly passed Media Service Act, 2016. The team of lawyers from MCT, LHRC and THRDC are challenging sections of the Media Services Act, 2016 which appeared to deprive the civil liberties to access and getting information. According to the constitution of Tanzania Article 18 (a), (b), (c) and (d) Some deprived constitutional civil rights by the Media service Acts are;\n\n"}
{"id": "58175679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58175679", "title": "The Quality of Nationality Index", "text": "The Quality of Nationality Index\n\nThe Quality of Nationality Index (QNI) ranks the quality of nationalities based on internal and external factors. Each nationality receives an aggregated score based on their economic strength, human development, ease of travel, political stability and overseas employment opportunities for their citizens. The data is collected from various sources with quantifiable data. The QNI was created by Dimitry Kochenov, an expert in citizenship, nationality and immigration law and constitutional law of the European Union at the University of Groningen and Christian Kälin, chairman of Henley & Partners.\n\nBeing a national of any country is a random consequence of birth, showing no correlation with a person's achievements, ideas, feelings, and desires. This phenomenon has also been described as ‘a birthright lottery’ by Professor of Law, Political Science, and Global Affairs Ayelet Shachar at the University of Toronto. At the same time, the QNI shows that nationalities diverge greatly in their practical value which often does not run parallel with the characteristics of the countries with which nationalities are associated, such as the economic power or the level of human development of the countries. Applying the methodology of the QNI, some economically strong countries have relatively unattractive nationalities. For example, the nationality of India shares the 106th place with the nationality of Senegal (2017 data). By contrast, some small countries have nationalities of larger value, such as those of Lithuania and Romania, which are ranked 22nd and 25th respectively in the QNI 2017.\n\nThe QNI is frequently cited in media such as \"Forbes\", Bloomberg, \"The Enquirer\" and \"Business Standard\".\n\nThe QNI takes a quantitative approach to determine the value of a nationality based on seven parameters, comprising both internal value (40%) and external value (60%). Three parameters reflect the internal value of a nationality: human development (15%), economic strength (15%), and peace and stability (10%). Four parameters reflect the external value of a nationality: diversity of travel freedom (15%), weight of travel freedom (15%), diversity of settlement freedom (15%), and weight of settlement freedom (15%).\n\nVirtually all nationalities of the world as well as EU citizenship are included in the ranking. Not included are fantasy passports and nationalities of non-recognized states such as Abkhazia, South-Ossetia, and Somaliland. All nationalities receive a score from 0% to 100%.\n\nThe data is aggregated from various objective sources. The internal factors present the quality of life and opportunities for personal growth within the country of origin of the holder of nationality.\n\nHuman Development is measured using the United Nations Development Programme Human Development Index (Human Development Index). The HDI was developed by Pakistani economist Mahbub ul Haq and Indian economist Amartya Sen which was further used to measure the country's development by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The index is based on the human development approach, developed by Ul Haq, often framed in terms of whether people are able to \"be\" and \"do\" desirable things in life. Examples include—Being: well fed, sheltered, healthy; Doings: work, education, voting, participating in community life. Consequently, this index centres on three different human development areas: life expectancy at birth, expected years of education, and standard of living.\n\nThe QNI normalizes the HDI scores of the countries with which a particular nationality is associated to a 0-15% scale. The nationality of the highest-scoring country on the HDI gets the full 15% score, with the other nationalities being ranked proportionately.\n\nEconomic Strength of a nationality is based on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) of the country with which the nationality is associated. It is calculated from the data that is provided by the International Monetary Fund. If there is no reliable Purchasing Power Parity data available, non-PPP data from the World Bank are used. GDP at PPP scores are normalized to a 0-15% scale, the largest economy receiving the full 15% score.\n\nPeace and Stability are calculated using data by the annual Global Peace Index (GPI). The index is published by the Institute for Economics and Peace. Peace and Stability accounts for 10% of the total QNI General Ranking scale. Also here the nationality which is associated with the most peaceful country receives the full 10%. The other nationalities are ranked proportionately on the basis of the ranking scale used by the GPI.\n\nExternal factors identify the quality of opportunities and diversity the holder of a nationality can pursue outside the country of origin.\n\nDiversity of Travel Freedom is based on how many destinations the holder of a particular nationality can visit without a visa or with a visa-on-arrival for short-term tourist or business purposes. The data is sourced from the International Air Transport Association IATA. The diversity of Travel Freedom accounts for 15% of the total QNI General Ranking scale.\n\nWeight of Travel Freedom evaluates the quality of the travel freedom the holder of a nationality has without a visa or with a visa-on-arrival for short term visits. Unlike Diversity of Travel Freedom, which looks only at the number of destinations, Weight of Travel Freedom looks at the value of having visa-free or visa-on-arrival travel access to a particular country. This value is based on the Human Development (50%) and Economic Strength (50%) of each country destination. This is based on the presumption that for most people, having visa-free access to the United States of America is of higher value than having visa-free access to Sudan, for example. Weight of Travel Freedom accounts for 15% of the total QNI General Ranking scale.\n\nDiversity of Settlement Freedom is based on the number of foreign countries in which the holder of a nationality can freely settle for at least 360 days with automatic access to work there. Diversity of Settlement Freedom accounts for 15% of the total QNI General Ranking scale. The most advanced example of a regional organization which allows nationals of its Member States to freely settle in each of the other Member States is the European Union. However, similar regional organizations which include free settlement among Member States are MERCOSUR, the Gulf Cooperation Council, and Economic Community of Western African States. Outside such regional organizations, Georgia is the only country that allows almost all foreigners to freely settle and work in its country. If there is a ‘Hard Brexit’, British citizens may lose their settlement and working rights to more than 30 of the world's leading countries, seriously affecting the quality of the British nationality.\n\nWeight of Settlement Freedom evaluates the quality of the settlement freedom of the holder of a nationality. It does so by looking at the Human Development (50%) and Economic Strength (50%) of the countries to which the nationality holder has settlement access. Weight of Settlement Freedom accounts for 15% of the total QNI General Ranking scale.\n\nAs of 2017, France's quality of nationality is ranked the best in the world, according to the latest edition of the Quality of Nationality Index (QNI). \nThe French nationality earned a score of 81.7% out of a possible 100%, fractionally ahead of Germany. While the difference between France's and Germany's results is relatively small, France's comparative advantage lies in its greater settlement freedom (attributable mainly to the country's former colonial empire).\n\nFrance's quality of nationality is ranked the best in the world, according to the latest edition of the Quality of Nationality Index (2017 data). The French nationality earned a score of 81.7% out of a possible 100%, fractionally ahead of Germany. While the difference between France's and Germany's result is relatively small, France's comparative advantage lies in its greater settlement freedom (attributable mainly to the country's former colonial empire).\n\n! References\n"}
{"id": "43129772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43129772", "title": "Theodore Summerland", "text": "Theodore Summerland\n\nTheodore Summerland (6 September 1853–5 December 1919) was the Los Angeles County, California, assessor in 1894-1903 when the California Supreme Court decided that the assessor was not entitled to commissions on the taxes that he collected. He also served two terms on the Los Angeles City Council and was on the California Railroad Commission.\nSummerland was born in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. In 1862 he and his family joined his father in Marysville, California, where the latter had been living for several years. They later moved to Santa Clara, California, where Theodore completed secondary school.\n\nHe married Estelle Unger of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, in Los Angeles on July 3, 1907. She had a son, Rex Unger, from a previous marriage.\n\nTheodore Summerland was a Presbyterian, a Republican, and was the first exalted ruler of Elks Lodge No. 99.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that it was Summerland's custom \"whenever a circus came to town to buy 200 tickets and take all the poor boys he could find. He always went along himself to see that they got their popcorn, peanuts and red lemonade.\"\n\nSummerland died on December 5, 1919, at Clara Barton Hospital in Los Angeles after a short illness. He was survived by his wife, who was living in San Francisco. Interment was in the Elks' plot in Inglewood Park Cemetery.\n\nSummerland was a life insurance agent in private life.\n\nIn 1889-92 he was on the Los Angeles City Council, representing the 8th Ward. He ran for the Republican nomination for mayor in 1892, but lost in the convention to J. Q. A. Tufts, even though Summerland had led on the first ballot.\n\nHe was later elected Los Angeles County assessor and served 1894–1903. In 1896 Summerfield was on the losing end of a California Supreme Court decision that he was not entitled to a commission for his collection of road, poll and personal property taxes that he had collected in the city and then submitted to the County of Los Angeles. The \"Los Angeles Times\" explained:\nAssessors in all counties but those of the second class are allowed these commissions, but the [state] statute expressly exempts counties of the second class [as Los Angeles County was then]... The commissions, had they been allowed, would have amounted to $10,000 a year, in addition to the $3600 a year which is the regular salary of the Assessor.\n\nIn September 1898, Summerland was engaged in an altercation with another \"well-known\" politician, W.S. Redding, and was struck on the head with a walking stick, resulting in a \"bad gash\" to the scalp. The \"Los Angeles Herald\" reported that \"For some time past there has been ill feeling between the men. . . .[who] met in the Hollenbeck [Hotel] last evening, and lost no time talking, but mixed things up in savage style. Each of the participants claims that the other was the aggressor.\"\n\nIn 1902 he was again elected to the council, this time from the 4th Ward, and he served two terms, until 1906. During 1904-06 he was City Council president.\n\nSummerland was named to the State Railroad Commission, and in 1915 he was a candidate for the county Board of Supervisors from the 4th District.\n\n"}
{"id": "52386414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52386414", "title": "Timeline of cannabis law", "text": "Timeline of cannabis law\n\nThe list includes significant events globally in the history of national-level cannabis law.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "426001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426001", "title": "Tomoyuki Yamashita", "text": "Tomoyuki Yamashita\n\nAfter the war, Yamashita was tried for war crimes committed by troops under his command during the Japanese defense of the occupied Philippines in 1944. In a controversial trial, Yamashita was found guilty of his troops' atrocities even though there was no evidence that he approved or even knew of them, and indeed many of the atrocities were committed by troops not actually under Yamashita's command. This ruling – holding the commander responsible for his or her subordinates' war crimes as long as the commander did not attempt to discover and stop them from occurring – came to be known as the Yamashita standard. Yamashita was sentenced to death, and executed by hanging in 1946.\n\nYamashita was the second son of a local doctor in Osugi, a village in what is now part of Ōtoyo, Kōchi Prefecture, Shikoku. He attended military preparatory schools in his youth.\n\nIn November 1905 Yamashita graduated from the 18th class of the Imperial Japanese Army Academy. He was ranked 16th out of 920 cadets. In December 1908 he was promoted to lieutenant and fought against the German Empire in World War I in Shantung, China in 1914. In May 1916 he was promoted to captain. He attended the 28th class of the Army War College, graduating sixth in his class in 1916. That same year, he married Hisako Nagayama, daughter of retired Gen. Nagayama. Yamashita became an expert on Germany, serving as assistant military attaché at Bern and Berlin from 1919–22.\n\nIn February 1922 he was promoted to major. He twice served in the Military Affairs Bureau of the War Ministry responsible for the Ugaki Army Reduction Program, which was aimed at reforming the Japanese army by streamlining its organisation, despite facing fierce opposition from factions within the Army itself.\n\nIn 1922, upon his return to Japan, Major Yamashita served in the Imperial Headquarters and the Staff College, receiving promotion to lieutenant-colonel in August 1925. While posted to the Imperial Japanese Army General Staff, Yamashita unsuccessfully promoted a military reduction plan. Despite his ability, Yamashita fell into disfavor as a result of his involvement with political factions within the Japanese military.\n\nAs a leading member of the \"Imperial Way\" group, he became a rival to Hideki Tōjō and other members of the \"Control Faction\". In 1927 Yamashita was posted to Vienna, Austria, as a military attaché until 1930. He was then promoted to the rank of Colonel. In 1930 Col. Yamashita was given command of the elite 3rd Imperial Infantry Regiment. (Imperial Guards Division). He was promoted to major-general in August 1934.\n\nAfter the February 26 Incident of 1936, he fell into disfavor with Emperor Hirohito due to his appeal for leniency toward rebel officers involved in the attempted coup. He realized that he had lost the trust of the Emperor and decided to resign from the Army—a decision that his superiors dissuaded him from carrying out. He was eventually relegated to a post in Korea, being given command of a brigade. Akashi Yoji argued in his article \"General Yamashita Tomoyuki: Commander of the Twenty-Fifth Army\" that his time in Korea gave him the chance to reflect on his conduct during the 1936 coup and at the same time study Zen Buddhism, something which caused him to mellow down in character yet instilled a high level of discipline for himself.\n\nYamashita was promoted to lieutenant-general in November 1937. He insisted that Japan should end the conflict with China and keep peaceful relations with the United States and Great Britain, but he was ignored and subsequently assigned to an unimportant post in the Kwantung Army.\n\nFrom 1938-40 he was assigned to command the IJA 4th Division which saw some action in northern China against insurgents fighting the occupying Japanese armies. In December 1940 Yamashita was sent on a six-month clandestine military mission to Germany and Italy, where he met with Adolf Hitler on 16 June 1941 in Berlin as well as Benito Mussolini.\n\nThroughout his time in the military he had consistently urged the implementation of his proposals, which included \"streamlining the air arm, to mechanise the Army, to integrate control of the armed forces in a defence ministry coordinated by a chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff, to create a paratroop corps and to employ effective propaganda\".\n\nSuch strategies caused much friction between himself and Gen. Hideki Tōjō, the War Minister, who was not keen on implementing these proposals.\n\nOn 6 November 1941 Lt. Gen. Yamashita was put in command of the Twenty-Fifth Army. It was his belief that victory in Malaya would be successful only if his troops could make an amphibious landing—something that was dependent on whether he would have enough air and naval support to provide a good landing site.\n\nOn 8 December he launched an invasion of Malaya from bases in French Indochina. Yamashita remarked that only a \"driving charge\" would ensure victory in Malaya. This is because the Japanese force was about one-third of what the British had in Malaya and Singapore. The plan was to conquer Malaya and Singapore in the shortest time possible in order to overcome any numerical disadvantage, as well as to minimize any potential losses from a long, drawn-out battle.\n\nThe Malayan campaign concluded with the fall of Singapore on 15 February 1942, in which Yamashita's 30,000 front-line soldiers captured 80,000 British, Indian and Australian troops, the largest surrender of British-led personnel in history. He became known as the \"Tiger of Malaya\".\n\nThe campaign and the subsequent Japanese occupation of Singapore included war crimes committed against captive Allied personnel and civilians, such as the Alexandra Hospital and Sook Ching massacres. Yamashita's culpability for these events remains a matter of controversy, as some argued that he had failed to prevent them. The order to execute 50,000 Chinese came, according to postwar testimony, from senior officers within Yamashita's Operations staff. Yamashita's troops had fought in China, where it was customary to conduct massacres to subdue the population. Major Ōnishi Satoru, one of the accused in the postwar trial, affirmed that he acted under a specific order issued from General Headquarters, that read, '[D]ue to the fact that the army is advancing fast and in order to preserve peace behind us it is essential to massacre as many Chinese as possible who appear in any way to have anti_Japanese feelings.'\n\nYamashita later apologized to the few survivors of the 650 bayoneted or shot, and had some soldiers caught looting in the aftermath of the slaughter executed. Akashi Yoji claims that this would have been in line with Yamashita's personality and belief. According to him, the first orders given by Yamashita to the soldiers was \"no looting; no rape; no arson\", and that any soldier committing such acts would be severely punished and his superior held accountable.\n\nNevertheless, Yamashita's warnings to his troops were generally not heeded, and wanton acts of violence were reported. In his article, Yoji argued that the main issue was that despite being an excellent tactician and leader, his personal ideals constantly placed him at odds with the General Staff and War Ministry. His humane treatment of prisoners of war as well as British leaders was something the other officers had difficulty coming to terms with.\n\nDespite the finger of blame for the Sook Ching Massacre being pointed at Yamashita, it is now argued that he had no direct part in it and that it was in fact his subordinates who were behind the incident. A study by Ian Ward concluded that Yamashita should not be held responsible for the Sook Ching Massacre, but Ward did hold him responsible \"for failing to guard against Tsuji's manipulation of Command affairs\".\n\nOn 17 July 1942, Yamashita was reassigned from Singapore to far-away Manchukuo again, having been given a post in commanding the First Area Army, and was effectively sidelined for a major part of the Pacific War. It is thought that Tōjō, by then the Prime Minister, was responsible for his banishment, taking advantage of Yamashita's gaffe during a speech made to Singaporean civilian leaders in early 1942, when he referred to the local populace as \"citizens of the Empire of Japan\" (this was considered embarrassing for the Japanese government, who officially did not consider the residents of occupied territories to have the rights or privileges of Japanese citizenship). He was promoted to full general in February 1943. Some have suggested that he may have been sent there to prepare for an attack upon the Soviet Union in the event that Stalingrad fell to Germany.\n\nOn 26 September 1944, when the war situation was critical for Japan, Yamashita was rescued from his enforced exile in China by the new Japanese government after the downfall of Hideki Tōjō and his cabinet, and he assumed the command of the Fourteenth Area Army to defend the occupied Philippines on 10 October. The U.S. forces landed on Leyte on 20 October, only ten days after Yamashita's arrival at Manila. On 6 January 1945, the Sixth U.S. Army, totaling 200,000 men, landed at Lingayen Gulf in Luzon.\n\nYamashita commanded approximately 262,000 troops in three defensive groups; the largest, the \"Shobu\" Group, under his personal command numbered 152,000 troops, defended northern Luzon. The smallest group, totaling 30,000 troops, known as the \"Kembu\" Group, under the command of Tsukada, defended Bataan and the western shores. The last group, the \"Shimbu\" Group, totaling 80,000 men under the command of Yokoyama, defended Manila and southern Luzon. Yamashita tried to rebuild his army but was forced to retreat from Manila to the Sierra Madre mountains of northern Luzon, as well as the Cordillera Central mountains. Yamashita ordered all troops, except those given the task of ensuring security, out of the city.\n\nAlmost immediately, Imperial Japanese Navy Rear Admiral Sanji Iwabuchi re-occupied Manila with 16,000 sailors, with the intent of destroying all port facilities and naval storehouses. Once there, Iwabuchi took command of the 3,750 Army security troops, and against Yamashita's specific order, turned the city into a battlefield. The battle and the Japanese atrocities resulted in the deaths of more than 100,000 Filipino civilians, in what is known as the Manila massacre, during the fierce street fighting for the capital which raged between February 4 and March 3.\n\nYamashita continued to use delaying tactics to maintain his army in Kiangan (part of the Ifugao Province), until 2 September 1945, several weeks after the surrender of Japan. At the time of his surrender, his forces had been reduced to under 50,000 by the lack of supplies and tough campaigning by elements of the combined American and Filipino soldiers including the recognized guerrillas. Yamashita surrendered in the presence of Generals Jonathan Wainwright and Arthur Percival, both of whom had been prisoners of war in Manchuria. Percival had surrendered to Yamashita after the Battle of Singapore.\n\nFrom 29 October-7 December 1945, an American military tribunal in Manila tried General Yamashita for war crimes relating to the Manila massacre and many atrocities in the Philippines and Singapore against civilians and prisoners of war, such as the Sook Ching massacre, and sentenced him to death. This controversial case has become a precedent regarding the command responsibility for war crimes and is known as the Yamashita Standard.\n\nThe principal accusation against Yamashita was that he had failed in his duty as commander of Japanese forces in the Philippines to prevent them from committing atrocities. The defense acknowledged that atrocities had been committed but contended that the breakdown of communications and the Japanese chain of command in the chaotic battle of the second Philippines campaign was such that Yamashita could not have controlled his troops even if he had known of their actions, which was not certain in any case; furthermore, many of the atrocities had been committed by Japanese naval forces outside his command.\n\nAmerican lawyer Harry E. Clarke, Sr., a colonel in the United States Army at the time, served as the chief counsel for the defense. In his opening statement, Clarke asserted:\n\nFor his part Yamashita denied he had knowledge of the crimes committed by his men, and claimed that he would have harshly punished them if he had had that knowledge. Further, he argued that with an army as large as his, there was no way for him to control all actions by all his subordinates. As such he felt what he was really being charged with was losing the war:\n\nThe court found Yamashita guilty as charged and sentenced him to death. Clarke appealed the sentence to General MacArthur, who upheld it. He then appealed to the Supreme Court of the Philippines and the Supreme Court of the United States, both of which declined to review the verdict.\n\nIn dissent from the Supreme Court of the United States's majority, Justice W.B. Rutledge wrote:\n\nThe legitimacy of the hasty trial was questioned at the time, including by Justice Frank Murphy, who protested various procedural issues, the inclusion of hearsay evidence, and the general lack of professional conduct by the prosecuting officers. Evidence that Yamashita did not have ultimate command responsibility over all military units in the Philippines was not admitted in court.\n\nFormer war crimes prosecutor Allan A. Ryan has argued that by order of General MacArthur and five other generals, and the Supreme Court of the United States, Yamashita was executed for what his soldiers did without his approval or even prior knowledge. The two dissenting Supreme Court Justices called the entire trial a miscarriage of justice, an exercise in vengeance, and a denial of human rights.\n\nFollowing the Supreme Court decision, an appeal for clemency was made to U.S. President Harry S Truman, who declined to intervene and left the matter entirely in the hands of the military authorities. In due course, General MacArthur confirmed the sentence of the Commission.\n\nOn 23 February 1946, Yamashita was sentenced to be hanged at Los Baños, Laguna Prison Camp, south of Manila. After climbing the thirteen steps leading to the gallows, he was asked if he had a final statement. To this Yamashita replied through a translator:\n\nYamashita was hanged. He was later buried first at the Japanese cemetery near the Los Baños Prison Camp. His remains would later be moved to Tama Reien Cemetery, Fuchū, Tokyo, Japan.\n\nOn 23 December 1948, Yamashita's chief of staff in the Philippines, Akira Mutō, was executed after having been found guilty of war crimes by the International Military Tribunal for the Far East.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court's 1946 Yamashita decision set a precedent, called command responsibility or the Yamashita standard, was that a commander can be held accountable before the law for the crimes committed by his troops even if he did not order them, did not stand by to allow them, or possibly even know about them or have the means to stop them. This doctrine of command accountability has been added to the Geneva Conventions and was applied to dozens of trials in the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. It has also been adopted by the International Criminal Court established in 2002.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "99809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99809", "title": "Tonic water", "text": "Tonic water\n\nTonic water (or Indian tonic water) is a carbonated soft drink in which quinine is dissolved. Originally used as a prophylactic against malaria, tonic water usually now has a significantly lower quinine content and is consumed for its distinctive bitter flavor. It is often used in mixed drinks, particularly in gin and tonic.\n\nQuinine was added to the drink as a prophylactic against malaria, since it was originally intended for consumption in tropical areas of South Asia and Africa, where the disease is endemic. Quinine powder is so bitter that British officials stationed in early 19th century India and other tropical posts mixed the powder with soda and sugar, and tonic water was created. The first commercial tonic water was produced in 1858. The mixed drink gin and tonic also originated in British colonial India, when the British mixed their medicinal quinine tonic with gin.\n\nSince 2010, at least four tonic syrups are available in the US. Consumers add carbonated water to the syrup to make tonic water, thus allowing drinkers to adjust the flavor intensity.\n\nMedicinal tonic water originally contained only carbonated water and a large amount of quinine. However, most tonic water today contains less quinine and is thus used mostly for its flavor. As a consequence, it is less bitter, and is also usually sweetened, often with high-fructose corn syrup or sugar. Some manufacturers also produce diet (or slimline) tonic water, which may contain artificial sweeteners such as aspartame. Traditional-style tonic water with little more than quinine and carbonated water is less common, but may be preferred by those who desire the bitter flavor.\n\nIn the United States, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) limits the quinine content in tonic water to 83 ppm (83 mg per liter if calculated by mass), while the daily therapeutic dose of quinine is in the range of 500–1000 mg, and 10 mg/kg every eight hours for effective malaria prevention (2100 mg daily for a 70 kg adult). Still, it is often recommended as a relief for leg cramps, but medical research suggests some care is needed in monitoring doses. Because of quinine's risks, the FDA cautions consumers against using \"off-label\" quinine drugs to treat leg cramps.\n\nTonic water is often used as a drink mixer for cocktails, especially the gin and tonic. The vodka tonic is also popular. Tonic water with lemon or lime flavor added is known as bitter lemon or bitter lime, respectively.\n\nThe quinine in tonic water will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. In fact, the sensitivity of quinine to ultraviolet light is such that it will appear visibly fluorescent in direct sunlight.\n\n"}
{"id": "3376006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3376006", "title": "Wildlife Conservation Act 1950", "text": "Wildlife Conservation Act 1950\n\nThe Wildlife Conservation Act 1950 is an act of the Western Australian Parliament that provides the statute relating to conservation and legal protection of flora and fauna. It was replaced by the Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 on 3 December 2016 due to the inability for the Act to meet the requirements for modern conservation standards. However, the Wildlife Conservation Act 1950 is still listed as Current and has not yet been repealed.\n\nThe Act is supplemented periodically by Notices, which are lists of species subject to protection under the Act, e.g. the Wildlife Conservation (Specially Protected Fauna) Notice 2008(2). The lists are arranged in Schedules according to level of vulnerability. Schedule 1 is \"Fauna that is rare or is likely to become extinct\" or \"Extant [flora] taxa\"; Schedule 2 is \"Fauna presumed to be extinct\" or [Flora] \"Taxa presumed to be extinct\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25127718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25127718", "title": "William E. Butler", "text": "William E. Butler\n\nWilliam Elliott Butler (born 20 October 1939) is a jurist and educator, the John Edward Fowler Distinguished Professor of Law, Dickinson School of Law, Pennsylvania State University (2005-) and Professorial Research Associate, School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London (2006-), and Emeritus Professor of Comparative Law in the University of London (2005-). He is a pre-eminent authority on the legal systems of Russia, other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), and Mongolia. He is also extensively involved in the fields of public and private international law.\n\nButler is a noted bibliophile and bookplate collector.\n\nMarried 1961 Darlene Mae Johnson (1939–1989), with two sons (William III, b. 1965) and Bradley (b. 1973); Married 1991 Maryann Elizabeth Gashi (b. 1955).\n\nButler received his education in the U.S. In the early 1960s he attended lectures of John N. Hazard (1909–1996) offered at Johns Hopkins University SAIS and, while at Harvard Law School, worked with Harold J. Berman (1918–2007), the founders of Soviet legal studies in the West. There he developed his interest in Soviet law and in international and comparative legal studies.\n\nHe is the holder of the following university degrees: A.A., Hibbing Junior College, 1959; B.A., The American University (School of International Service), 1961; M.A., The Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, 1963; J.D., Harvard Law School, 1966; LL.M., School of Law of the Academy University of Law, Institute of State and Law, Russian Academy of Sciences, 1997; Ph.D., The Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, 1970 (for his dissertation \"Soviet Union and the Law of the Sea\", which was later published); LL.D., University of London, 1979.\n\nAfter serving two years (1966–68) in Washington, D.C. as Research Assistant at the Washington Center for Foreign Policy Research, Johns Hopkins SAIS, working on a research contract for the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and a further two years (1968–70) as Research Associate in Law at the Harvard Law School, working in Soviet, Chinese, and Western approaches to international law, in 1970 W. E. Butler was elected to the established Readership in Comparative Law at the University of London, tenable at University College London, and elevated to a personal chair in 1976 as Professor of Comparative Law. Till the late 1980s he pursued principally an academic career, although he acted as consultant to governments and international organisations.\n\nHis early research pursued the interface between Soviet law and the international legal system, a subject which he later broadened to address comparative approaches to international law. The key books of this period included: \"The Soviet Union and the Law of the Sea\" (Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press, 1971); \"The Merchant Shipping Code of the USSR 1968\" (Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press, 1970) (with J. B. Quigley, Jr.); \"Northeast Arctic Passage\" (Leiden, Martinus Nijhoff, 1978); an edition of P. P. Shafirov, \"Discourse on the Causes of War between Russia and Sweden\" (Dobbs Ferry, Oceana Publications, 1973); \"Comparative Approaches to International Law\" (1978); \"Documents on Socialist International Organizations\" (1978); \"Russian Law: Historical and Political Perspectives\" (Leiden, A. W. Sijthoff, 1977); \"The Soviet Legal System\" (in co-authorship with John N. Hazard and Peter B. Maggs; 3d ed.; Dobbs Ferry: Oceana Publications, 1977; new ed., 1984) and \"Soviet Law\" (London: Butterworths, 1983; new ed., 1988).\n\nIn 1982 Butler founded the Centre for the Study of Socialist Legal Systems, University College London, which in 1993 was renamed The Vinogradoff Institute and in 2005 was removed to Dickinson School of Law. He served as Dean of the Faculty of Laws, University College London (1977–79) and of the University of London (1988–90). He has been Visiting Professor of Law at New York University Law School, Harvard Law School, Washington and Lee School of Law, and the Moscow State University. For many years he was a member of the Council of the School of Slavonic and East European Studies, University of London, including one term as Vice-Chairman.\n\nHe is the author, co-author, editor, or translator of more than 3,500 books, loose-leaf services, articles, and reviews on Soviet, Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Tajik, Uzbek, Kazakh, Baltic, and other CIS legal systems. His articles have been published in the leading law reviews of the United Kingdom, the Russian Federation, and the United States.\n\nIn 1985 he delivered a cycle of lectures at the Hague Academy of International Law on \"Comparative Approaches to International Law\".\n\nDuring the late years of perestroika in the Soviet Union and then in the post-Soviet period he took active role in law reform as a recognised expert on many areas of law. Butler's principal treatise is \"Russian Law\" (Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1999; 2d ed., 2003; 3d ed., 2009), which gives a comprehensive account of the history, sources and all branches of Russian law, as well as its place within international context. It was cited by the United States Court of Appeals in 2004. Butler maintains that the transition from a planned economy to a market economy is one which no State has previously undertaken in human history, and Russian law is the principal vehicle of this transition. He is of the view that CIS legal systems are currently in search of their legal identity and therefore present a unique laboratory of comparative law approaches.\n\nAmong salient titles of recent years which pursue these themes are: \n\nHe has published a number of works in the Russian Federation, including the \"Russian-English Legal Dictionary\" (Moscow, Zertsalo, 1995; 2d ed., 2001) and edited editions in the classics of Russian legal history, amongst them a revised edition of V. E. Grabar's \"History of the literature of international law in Russia, 1647-1917\"; an edition of Shafirov's \"Discourse on the law of nations\", Kamarovskii's work on an international court, and Catherine II's \"Nakaz\", usually in collaboration with Professor V. A. Tomsinov (Moscow State University). His translation of the Ukrainian Criminal Code was published by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine in Kiev (2001). His translations of the Russian Civil Code, Family Code, Tax Code, Land Code, Labor Code, and Criminal Code have appeared in parallel Russian and English texts (Moscow, JurinfoR) in large editions.\n\nIn addition to original works he has engaged extensively in the translation of Soviet and post-Soviet legislation. Mostly these appeared in the quarterly journal \"Soviet Statutes and Decisions\" (White Plains, New York, Sharpe Publishing) and in looseleaf services published by Oceana Publications and, since 2006, by Juris Publishers in New York. In total he has published translations of more than 2,500 normative legal acts adopted in the former Soviet Union, all CIS countries, and Mongolia (a full bibliography is contained \"International and Comparative Law: А Bibliography\", London: Wildy, Simmonds & Hill, 2005). As a result, the largest body of English translations of post-Soviet legislation has been created of academic quality. Although Butler is not the only scholar who has contributed to the translation of Russian legal texts, it is mainly due to his efforts that the Western law student or lawyer has now more available to him in English translation concerning the Russian legal system than for any continental European jurisdiction.\n\nHe founded the quarterly journal \"Sudebnik\" (1995–2007) and serves on the editorial boards of the principal English-language journals, law reviews, and yearbooks devoted to Russia and other CIS legal systems. Commencing in 2004, he became the founding editor of \"Russian Law: Theory and Practice\", issued by the Russian Academy of Legal Sciences (2004–2009) and Consulting and Book Review Editor, elevated from 2008 to co-editor (with Professor Michael Palmer) of \"The Journal of Comparative Law\" (London, Wildy, Simmonds & Hill, 2005-).\n\nIn October 2003 he was elected a Trustee of the Hakluyt Society and has served as a Member of the Committee for Central and Inner Asia attached to The British Academy since its inception and as a member of The Bentham Committee since 2003. He has been appointed editor of Bentham's works on international law.\n\nCommencing with Mikhail Gorbachev's \"perestroika\" and onwards, Butler became more deeply involved in consulting activities, providing expertise for the legal reforms in the USSR and its successor states. In 1989 he was appointed Special Counsel and Chairman of a Working Group attached to the Commission for Economic Reform of the USSR Council of Ministers. In this capacity he evaluated key draft perestroika legislation and was co-author of the Draft USSR Law on Pledge which, in May 1992, was the basis for legislation enacted by the Russian Parliament and then of similar laws adopted in Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. The same Working Group prepared the Edict of the President of the Russian Federation on Trust Ownership, adopted 24 December 1993 and still in force. From July 1992 to February 1993 he was seconded as Senior Legal Counsel to the Russian Federation State Committee for the Administration of State Property, where he headed a small team of legal specialists to prepare draft Russian laws on trust ownership, securities and investment funds, joint-stock societies, full partnerships, Kommandit partnerships, and limited responsibility partnerships.\n\nHe served as a member of the European Union Joint Task Force on Law Reform in the Independent States together with leading Russian, European, and CIS jurists and was a co-author of the Report produced by this Task Force. In October–November 2002 he acted as a Consultant to a health project in Russia for the Department for International Development of the Government of the United Kingdom, and in Spring 2003 completed a substantial report for International Family Health Foundation on the legal regime of harm reduction programs in Russia. In 2003 he completed a major study for the Department for International Development, published separately in the English and Russian languages as: \"HIV/AIDS and Drug Misuse in Russia: Harm Reduction Programmes and the Russian Legal System\" (London, DFID/IFH, 2003). Pursuing the same subject, in 2009 the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in Moscow published his study on the legal aspects of substitution therapy in Russia.\n\nHe has advised numerous governmental bodies and international organizations on various aspects of law reforms in the CIS countries. Among them were the World Bank, the Office of the Legal Adviser, United States Department of State, the United States Department of Justice, the Department of Health and Social Security of the United Kingdom, the Department for International Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the authorities of Lithuania, Kyrgyzstan, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, as well as banks, large corporations, and industry associations.\n\nIn addition, he has advised on and given formal legal opinions on all aspects of Russian and Soviet Law before English and American courts, tribunals, and arbitral tribunals. In particular, in February 2005 he appeared as a legal expert before the US Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas in Houston within the litigation between Russian oil giant Yukos, on the one hand, and Deutsche Bank and Gazpromneft, on the other. In his statement before the court Butler said that there was no treaty between the US and Russia on the mutual recognition of legal rulings. That essentially meant Russian authorities were under no obligation to comply with any US rulings in the Yukos case.\n\nIn May 1995 he was elected to a five-year term as a member of the Russian International Court of Commercial Arbitration, and re-elected for further terms in 2000 and 2005. He has acted in more than twenty Moscow arbitrations, including as Chairman of the tribunal. He also has acted in the London and Stockholm courts of international arbitration as an arbitrator and has conducted arbitrations ad hoc. In 2008 he was appointed to the Panels of Distinguished Neutrals, both International and Pennsylvania, as an arbitrator by the CPR International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution.\n\nIn 1993 he founded the Faculty of Law of the unique Russian-British postgraduate university – the Moscow Higher School of Social and Economic Sciences attached to the Academy of National Economy of the Russian Federation. He served as the founding Dean (1993–98) and M. M. Speransky Professor of International and Comparative Law (until 2004) of that faculty.\n\nHe has acted as Of Counsel to Cole Corette & Abrutyn (1988–92) and Clifford Chance (1992–94) and as Partner and Head of the CIS London Group and the Almaty and Tashkent offices of White & Case (1994–96). From 1997-2001 he was a co-founder and Senior Partner in the PwC (later Landwell) CIS International Law Firm in Moscow, and in 2002 co-founded Phoenix Law Associates CIS, a Russian law firm located in Moscow.\n\nHe is admitted to the Bar of the District of Columbia (1967) and the Bar of the Supreme Court of the United States (1970), and has been licensed by the respective Ministry of Justice in Uzbekistan (1996) and the Russian Federation (1997).\n\nMember of:\n\nHe was awarded a Certificate of Honor by the International Union of Jurists (CIS) in 1996 and 2005 for services to Russian law and in June 2003, the G. I. Tunkin Medal by the Russian International Law Association for services to international law (2003). Other awards include a Certificate of Honor by the Russian Association of Maritime Law (2003), the Ivan Fedorov Medal and Diploma for services to Anglo-Russian cultural relations (2004) and a Certificate of Honor of the Russian Association of International Law (2007).\n\nW. E. Butler has gathered an enormous collection of bookplates and penned a number of books on this subject, including:\n\nHe was the Founding Editor of \"The Bookplate Journal\" (London, 1983-) and of the journal Bookplate International (1994–2005). He has served as the Executive Secretary of the International Federation of Ex-Libris Societies (FISAE) since 1986. He is a member of the Grolier Club (1996-); the Organization of Russian Bibliophiles (1992-), and the Section for the Book and Graphics, St. Petersburg, attached to the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nW.E. Butler is a long-time amateur beekeeper who has been featured in Bee Culture Magazine. In addition, Butler occasionally lectures to local beekeeping groups.\n"}
