{"id": "47507983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47507983", "title": "1998 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1998 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1998 in Sri Lanka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9097201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9097201", "title": "A. H. de Oliveira Marques", "text": "A. H. de Oliveira Marques\n\nAntónio Henrique Rodrigo de Oliveira Marques (23 August 1933 - 23 January 2007) was a Portuguese historian.\n\nOliveira Marques was born in the 'freguesia' of S. João do Estoril, Cascais.\n\nHe studied history and philosophy and graduated in 1956 from the University of Lisbon with a thesis entitled \"A Sociedade em Portugal nos Séculos XII a XIV\" (\"Portuguese Society from 12th to 14th Centuries\"). After training in the University of Würzburg, in Germany, he would start teaching the following year at the University of Lisbon and received his doctorate in 1960. His PhD. dissertation was entitled \"Hansa e Portugal na Idade Média\" (\"Hanseatic League and Portugal in the Middle Ages\").\n\nIn 1962, his participation in student strikes against the right-wing regime of Oliveira Salazar resulted in his dismissal from the university as a scholar. He left for the United States where he taught history at a number of universities (Auburn, Florida, Columbia, Minnesota and Chicago) between 1965 and 1970.\n\nOliveira Marques returned to Portugal in 1970, but only resumed teaching at Portuguese universities in 1974, the year in which the Carnation Revolution ended almost five decades of the Estado Novo regime.\n\nFrom October 1974 to April 1976, he was director of the National Library of Lisbon.\n\nIn 1998, he was granted the Grand Cross of the Order of Liberty, a state accolade which distinguishes figures who have made a contribution to the values of civilization.\n\nConsidered one of Portugal's greatest experts on Portuguese Medieval history, he wrote more than 60 books and numerous articles. One of his most famous works, \"A History of Portugal\", is translated into several languages.\n\nSome of his works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "15194227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15194227", "title": "Al-Mufaddal ibn Abi al-Fada'il", "text": "Al-Mufaddal ibn Abi al-Fada'il\n\nAl-Mufaddal ibn Abi al-Fada'il () was a 14th-century Egyptian historian. He was a Coptic Christian. \n\nAl-Mufaddal wrote a book about the history of the Bahriyya Mamluks, entitled \"al-Nahdj al-sadîd wa-l-durr al-farîd fimâ ba'd Ta'rîkh Ibn al'Amîd\", covering the period from 1260 to 1340. He finished his work in 1358. Al-Muffaddal gives precise descriptions of the history of Egypt and Syria, especially the Mongol occupation of Syria. He noted down the Damascus declaration made by the Mongols, as well as the content of the letters exchanged between Ghazan and al-Nâsir.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1260420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1260420", "title": "Anti-predator adaptation", "text": "Anti-predator adaptation\n\nAnti-predator adaptations are mechanisms developed through evolution that assist prey organisms in their constant struggle against predators. Throughout the animal kingdom, adaptations have evolved for every stage of this struggle, namely by avoiding detection, warding off attack, fighting back, or escaping when caught.\n\nThe first line of defence consists in avoiding detection, through mechanisms such as camouflage, masquerade, apostatic selection, living underground, or nocturnality. \n\nAlternatively, prey animals may ward off attack, whether by advertising the presence of strong defences in aposematism, by mimicking animals which do possess such defences, by startling the attacker, by signalling to the predator that pursuit is not worthwhile, by distraction, by using defensive structures such as spines, and by living in a group. Members of groups are at reduced risk of predation, despite the increased conspicuousness of a group, through improved vigilance, predator confusion, and the likelihood that the predator will attack some other individual.\n\nSome prey species are capable of fighting back against predators, whether with chemicals, through communal defence, or by ejecting noxious materials. Many animals can escape by fleeing rapidly, outrunning or outmanoeuvring their attacker. \n\nFinally, some species are able to escape even when caught by sacrificing certain body parts: crabs can shed a claw, while lizards can shed their tails, often distracting predators long enough to permit the prey to escape.\n\nAnimals may avoid becoming prey by living out of sight of predators, whether in caves, underground, or by being nocturnal. Nocturnality is an animal behavior characterized by activity during the night and sleeping during the day. This is a behavioral form of detection avoidance called crypsis used by animals to either avoid predation or to enhance prey hunting. Predation risk has long been recognized as critical in shaping behavioral decisions. For example, this predation risk is of prime importance in determining the time of evening emergence in echolocating bats. Although early access during brighter times permits easier foraging, it also leads to a higher predation risk from bat hawks and bat falcons. This results in an optimum evening emergence time that is a compromise between the conflicting demands.\nAnother nocturnal adaptation can be seen in kangaroo rats, which avoid moonlight. They forage in relatively open habitats and reduce their activity outside their nest burrows in response to moonlight. During a full moon, they shift their activity towards areas of relatively dense cover to compensate for the extra brightness.\n\nCamouflage uses any combination of materials, coloration, or illumination for concealment to make the organism hard to detect by sight. It is common in both terrestrial and marine animals. Camouflage can be achieved in many different ways, such as through resemblance to surroundings, disruptive coloration, shadow elimination by countershading or counter-illumination, self-decoration, cryptic behavior, or changeable skin patterns and colour. Animals such as the flat-tail horned lizard of North America have evolved to eliminate their shadow and blend in with the ground. The bodies of these lizards are flattened, and their sides thin towards the edge. This body form, along with the white scales fringed along their sides, allows the lizards to effectively hide their shadows. In addition, these lizards hide any remaining shadows by pressing their bodies to the ground.\n\nAnimals can hide in plain sight by masquerading as inedible objects. For example, the potoo, a South American bird, habitually perches on a tree, convincingly resembling a broken stump of a branch, while a butterfly, \"Kallima\", looks just like a dead leaf.\n\nAnother way to remain unattacked in plain sight is to look different from other members of the same species. Predators such as tits selectively hunt for abundant types of insect, ignoring less common types that were present, forming search images of the desired prey. This creates a mechanism for negative frequency-dependent selection, apostatic selection.\n\nMany species make use of behavioral strategies to deter predators.\n\nMany weakly-defended animals, including moths, butterflies, mantises, phasmids, and cephalopods such as octopuses, make use of patterns of threatening or startling behaviour, such as suddenly displaying conspicuous eyespots, so as to scare off or momentarily distract a predator, thus giving the prey animal an opportunity to escape. In the absence of toxins or other defences, this is essentially bluffing, in contrast to aposematism which involves honest signals.\n\nPursuit-deterrent signals are behavioral signals used by prey that convince predators not to pursue them. For example, gazelles stot, jumping high with stiff legs and an arched back. This is thought to signal to predators that they have a high level of fitness and can outrun the predator. As a result, predators may choose to pursue a different prey that is less likely to outrun them.\nWhite-tailed deer and other prey mammals flag with conspicuous (often black and white) tail markings when alarmed, informing the predator that it has been detected.\nWarning calls given by birds such as the Eurasian jay are similarly honest signals, benefiting both predator and prey: the predator is informed that it has been detected and might as well save time and energy by giving up the chase, while the prey is protected from attack.\n\nAnother pursuit-deterrent signal is thanatosis or playing dead. Thanatosis is a form of bluff in which an animal mimics its own dead body, feigning death to avoid being attacked by predators seeking live prey. Thanatosis can also be used by the predator in order to lure prey into approaching.\nAn example of this is seen in white-tailed deer fawns, which experience a drop in heart rate in response to approaching predators. This response, referred to as \"alarm bradycardia\", causes the fawn's heart rate to drop from 155 to 38 beats per minute within one beat of the heart. This drop in heart rate can last up to two minutes, causing the fawn to experience a depressed breathing rate and decrease in movement, called tonic immobility. Tonic immobility is a reflex response that causes the fawn to enter a low body position that simulates the position of a dead corpse. Upon discovery of the fawn, the predator loses interest in the \"dead\" prey. Other symptoms of alarm bradycardia, such as salivation, urination, and defecation, can also cause the predator to lose interest.\n\nMarine molluscs such as sea hares, cuttlefish, squid and octopuses give themselves a last chance to escape by distracting their attackers. To do this, they eject a mixture of chemicals, which may mimic food or otherwise confuse predators. In response to a predator, animals in these groups release ink, creating a cloud, and opaline, affecting the predator's feeding senses, causing it to attack the cloud.\n\nDistraction displays attract the attention of predators away from an object, typically the nest or young, that is being protected. Distraction displays are performed by some species of birds, which may feign a broken wing while hopping about on the ground, and by some species of fish.\n\nMimicry occurs when an organism (the mimic) simulates signal properties of another organism (the model) to confuse a third organism. This results in the mimic gaining protection, food, and mating advantages. There are two classical types of defensive mimicry: Batesian and Müllerian. Both involve aposematic coloration, or warning signals, to avoid being attacked by a predator.\n\nIn Batesian mimicry, a palatable, harmless prey species mimics the appearance of another species that is noxious to predators, thus reducing the mimic's risk of attack. This form of mimicry is seen in many insects. The idea behind Batesian mimicry is that predators that have tried to eat the unpalatable species learn to associate its colors and markings with an unpleasant taste. This results in the predator learning to avoid species displaying similar colours and markings, including Batesian mimics, which are in effect parasitic on the chemical or other defences of the unprofitable models. Some species of octopus can mimic a selection of other animals by changing their skin color, skin pattern and body motion. When a damselfish attacks an octopus, the octopus mimics a banded sea-snake. The model chosen varies with the octopus's predator and habitat. Most of these octopuses use Batesian mimicry, selecting an organism repulsive to predators as a model.\n\nIn Müllerian mimicry, two or more aposematic forms share the same warning signals, as in viceroy and monarch butterflies. Birds avoid eating both species because their wing patterns honestly signal their unpleasant taste.\n\nMany animals are protected against predators with armour in the form of hard shells (such as most molluscs), leathery or scaly skin (as in reptiles), or tough chitinous exoskeletons (as in arthropods).\n\nA spine is a sharp, needle-like structure used to inflict pain on predators. An example of this seen in nature is in the Sohal surgeonfish. These fish have a sharp scalpel-like spine on the front of each of their tail fins, able to inflict deep wounds. The area around the spines is often brightly colored to advertise the defensive capability; predators often avoid the Sohal surgeonfish. Defensive spines may be detachable, barbed or poisonous. Porcupine spines are long, stiff, break at the tip, and are barbed to stick into a would-be predator. In contrast, the hedgehog's short spines, which are modified hairs, readily bend, and are barbed into the body, so they are not easily lost; they may be jabbed at an attacker.\n\nMany species of slug caterpillar, Limacodidae, have numerous protuberances and stinging spines along their dorsal surfaces. Species that possess these stinging spines suffer less predation than larvae that lack them, and a predator, the paper wasp, chooses larvae without spines when given a choice.\n\nGroup living can decrease the risk of predation to the individual in a variety of ways, as described below.\n\nA dilution effect is seen when animals living in a group \"dilute\" their risk of attack, each individual being just one of many in the group. George C. Williams and W.D. Hamilton proposed that group living evolved because it provides benefits to the individual rather than to the group as a whole, which becomes more conspicuous as it becomes larger. One common example is the shoaling of fish. Experiments provide direct evidence for the decrease in individual attack rate seen with group living, for example in Camargue horses in Southern France. The horse-fly often attacks these horses, sucking blood and carrying diseases. When the flies are most numerous, the horses gather in large groups, and individuals are indeed attacked less frequently. Water striders are insects that live on the surface of fresh water, and are attacked from beneath by predatory fish. Experiments varying the group size of the water striders showed that the attack rate per individual water strider decreases as group size increases.\n\nThe selfish herd theory was proposed by W.D. Hamilton to explain why animals seek central positions in a group. The theory's central idea is to reduce the individual's domain of danger. A domain of danger is the area within the group in which the individual is more likely to be attacked by a predator. The center of the group has the lowest domain of danger, so animals are predicted to strive constantly to gain this position. Testing Hamilton's selfish herd effect, Alta De Vos and Justin O'Rainn (2010) studied brown fur seal predation from great white sharks. Using decoy seals, the researchers varied the distance between the decoys to produce different domains of danger. The seals with a greater domain of danger had an increased risk of shark attack.\n\nA radical strategy for avoiding predators which may otherwise kill a large majority of the emerging young of a population is to emerge very rarely, at irregular intervals. This strategy is seen in dramatic form in the periodical cicadas, which emerge at intervals of 13 or 17 years. Predators with a life-cycle of one or a few years are unable to reproduce rapidly enough in response to such an emergence, so predator satiation is a likely evolutionary explanation for the cicadas' unusual life-cycle, though not the only one. Predators may still feast on the emerging cicadas, but are unable to consume more than a fraction of the brief surfeit of prey.\n\nAnimals that live in groups often give alarm calls that give warning of an attack. For example, vervet monkeys give different calls depending on the nature of the attack: for an eagle, a disyllabic cough; for a leopard or other cat, a loud bark; for a python or other snake, a \"chutter\". The monkeys hearing these calls respond defensively, but differently in each case: to the eagle call, they look up and run into cover; to the leopard call, they run up into the trees; to the snake call, they stand on two legs and look around for snakes, and on seeing the snake, they sometimes mob it. Similar calls are found in other species of monkey, while birds also give different calls that elicit different responses.\n\nIn the improved vigilance effect, groups are able to detect predators sooner than solitary individuals. For many predators, success depends on surprise. If the prey is alerted early in an attack, they have an improved chance of escape. For example, wood pigeon flocks are preyed upon by goshawks. Goshawks are less successful when attacking larger flocks of wood pigeons than they are when attacking smaller flocks. This is because the larger the flock size, the more likely it is that one bird will notice the hawk sooner and fly away. Once one pigeon flies off in alarm, the rest of the pigeons follow. Wild ostriches in Tsavo National Park in Kenya feed either alone or in groups of up to four birds. They are subject to predation by lions. As the ostrich group size increases, the frequency at which each individual raises its head to look for predators decreases. Because ostriches are able to run at speeds that exceed those of lions for great distances, lions try to attack an ostrich when its head is down. By grouping, the ostriches present the lions with greater difficulty in determining how long the ostriches' heads stay down. Thus, although individual vigilance decreases, the overall vigilance of the group increases.\n\nIndividuals living in large groups may be safer from attack because the predator may be confused by the large group size. As the group moves, the predator has greater difficulty targeting an individual prey animal. The zebra has been suggested by the zoologist Martin Stevens and his colleagues as an example of this. When stationary, a single zebra stands out because of its large size. To reduce the risk of attack, zebras often travel in herds. The striped patterns of all the zebras in the herd may confuse the predator, making it harder for the predator to focus in on an individual zebra. Furthermore, when moving rapidly, the zebra stripes create a confusing, flickering motion dazzle effect in the eye of the predator.\n\nDefensive structures such as spines may be used both to ward off attack as already mentioned, and if need be to fight back against a predator. Methods of fighting back include chemical defences, mobbing, defensive regurgitation, and suicidal altruism.\n\nMany prey animals, and to defend against seed predation also seeds of plants, make use of poisonous chemicals for self-defence. These may be concentrated in surface structures such as spines or glands, giving an attacker a taste of the chemicals before it actually bites or swallows the prey animal: many toxins are bitter-tasting. A last-ditch defence is for the animal's flesh itself to be toxic, as in the puffer fish, danaid butterflies and burnet moths. Many insects acquire toxins from their food plants; \"Danaus\" caterpillars accumulate toxic cardenolides from milkweeds (Asclepiadaceae). \n\nSome prey animals are able to eject noxious materials to deter predators actively. The bombardier beetle has specialized glands on the tip of its abdomen that allows it to direct a toxic spray towards predators. The spray is generated explosively through oxidation of hydroquinones and is sprayed at a temperature of 100 °C. Armoured crickets similarly release blood at their joints when threatened (autohaemorrhaging). Several species of grasshopper including \"Poecilocerus pictus\", \"Parasanaa donovani\", \"Aularches miliaris\", and \"Tegra novaehollandiae\" secrete noxious liquids when threatened, sometimes ejecting these forcefully. Spitting cobras accurately squirt venom from their fangs at the eyes of potential predators, striking their target eight times out of ten, and causing severe pain. Termite soldiers in the Nasutitermitinae have a fontanellar gun, a gland on the front of their head which can secrete and shoot an accurate jet of resinous terpenes \"many centimeters\". The material is sticky and toxic to other insects. One of the terpenes in the secretion, pinene, functions as an alarm pheromone. Seeds deter predation with combinations of toxic non-protein amino acids, cyanogenic glycosides, protease and amylase inhibitors, and phytohemaglutinins.\n\nA few vertebrate species such as the Texas horned lizard are able to shoot squirts of blood from their eyes, by rapidly increasing the blood pressure within the eye sockets, if threatened. Because an individual may lose up to 53% of blood in a single squirt, this is only used against persistent predators like foxes, wolves and coyotes (Canidae), as a last defence. Canids often drop horned lizards after being squirted, and attempt to wipe or shake the blood out of their mouths, suggesting that the fluid has a foul taste; they choose other lizards if given the choice, suggesting a learned aversion towards horned lizards as prey.\n\nThe slime glands along the body of the hagfish secrete enormous amounts of mucus when it is provoked or stressed. The gelatinous slime has dramatic effects on the flow and viscosity of water, rapidly clogging the gills of any fish that attempt to capture hagfish; predators typically release the hagfish within seconds \"(pictured above)\". Common predators of hagfish include seabirds, pinnipeds and cetaceans, but few fish, suggesting that predatory fish avoid hagfish as prey.\n\nIn communal defence, prey groups actively defend themselves by grouping together, and sometimes by attacking or mobbing a predator, rather than allowing themselves to be passive victims of predation. Mobbing is the harassing of a predator by many prey animals. Mobbing is usually done to protect the young in social colonies. For example, red colobus monkeys exhibit mobbing when threatened by chimpanzees, a common predator. The male red colobus monkeys group together and place themselves between predators and the group's females and juveniles. The males jump together and actively bite the chimpanzees. Fieldfares are birds which may nest either solitarily or in colonies. Within colonies, fieldfares mob and defecate on approaching predators, shown experimentally to reduce predation levels.\n\nSome birds and insects use defensive regurgitation to ward off predators. The northern fulmar vomits a bright orange, oily substance called stomach oil when threatened. The stomach oil is made from their aquatic diets. It causes the predator's feathers to mat, leading to the loss of flying ability and the loss of water repellency. This is especially dangerous for aquatic birds because their water repellent feathers protect them from hypothermia when diving for food.\n\nEuropean roller chicks vomit a bright orange, foul smelling liquid when they sense danger. This repels prospective predators and may alert their parents to danger: they respond by delaying their return.\n\nNumerous insects utilize defensive regurgitation. The eastern tent caterpillar regurgitates a droplet of digestive fluid to repel attacking ants. Similarly, larvae of the noctuid moth regurgitate when disturbed by ants. The vomit of noctuid moths has repellent and irritant properties that help to deter predator attacks.\n\nAn unusual type of predator deterrence is observed in the Malaysian exploding ant. Social hymenoptera rely on altruism to protect the entire colony, so the self-destructive acts benefit all individuals in the colony. When a worker ant's leg is grasped, it suicidally expels the contents of its hypertrophied submandibular glands, expelling corrosive irritant compounds and adhesives onto the predator. These prevent predation and serve as a signal to other enemy ants to stop predation of the rest of the colony.\n\nThe normal reaction of a prey animal to an attacking predator is to flee by any available means, whether flying, gliding, falling, swimming, running, jumping, burrowing or rolling, according to the animal's capabilities. Escape paths are often erratic, making it difficult for the predator to predict which way the prey will go next: for example, birds such as snipe, ptarmigan and black-headed gulls evade fast raptors such as peregrine falcons with zigzagging or jinking flight. In the tropical rain forests of Southeast Asia in particular, many vertebrates escape predators by falling and gliding. Among the insects, many moths turn sharply, fall, or perform a powered dive in response to the sonar clicks of bats. Among fish, the stickleback follows a zigzagging path, often doubling back erratically, when chased by a fish-eating merganser duck.\n\nSome animals are capable of autotomy (self-amputation), shedding one of their own appendages in a last-ditch attempt to elude a predator's grasp or to distract the predator and thereby allow escape. The lost body part may be regenerated later. Certain sea slugs discard stinging papillae; arthropods such as crabs can sacrifice a claw, which can be regrown over several successive moults; among vertebrates, many geckos and other lizards shed their tails when attacked: the tail goes on writhing for a while, distracting the predator, and giving the lizard time to escape; a smaller tail slowly regrows.\n\nAristotle recorded observations (around 350 BC) of the antipredator behaviour of cephalopods in his \"History of Animals\", including the use of ink as a distraction, camouflage, and signalling.\n\nIn 1940, Hugh Cott wrote a compendious study of camouflage, mimicry, and aposematism, \"Adaptive Coloration in Animals\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50071194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50071194", "title": "Biser (magazine)", "text": "Biser (magazine)\n\nBiser was a Bosnian magazine, intended as a non-political replacement for the defunct \"Behar\". The first issue was published 1 June 1912 out of Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina by 19-year-old publisher Muhamed Bekir Kalajdžić. The main objective of \"Biser\" was to focus on Bosniak culture and heritage, as well as Muslim literary works. The Bosnian word \"biser\" means pearl in English.\n\nPoet Musa Ćazim Ćatić served as editor in chief, often writing poems, essays, criticism, and translations of numerous studies and books for the magazine.\n\nDue to the outbreak of World War I in 1914, \"Biser\" halted production until 1918 when Kalajdžić began printing again in 1918 to avoid being drafted into the army. \"Biser\" ended its run in 1919.\n"}
{"id": "51289246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51289246", "title": "Bloody Carnival", "text": "Bloody Carnival\n\nThe Bloody Carnival () was the massacre of Székely serfs in February 1596 after their rebellion for the restoration of their freedom. The Székelys rose up because the Diet of Transylvania had refused to restore their freedom. Sigismund Báthory, Prince of Transylvania promised them to restore their freedom if they joined his campaign against the Ottomans in Wallachia in autumn 1595.\n\n\n "}
{"id": "1758835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1758835", "title": "Carl-Michael Edenborg", "text": "Carl-Michael Edenborg\n\nCarl-Michael Edenborg (formerly surnamed \"Strömberg\"), born 1967, is a Swedish writer, critic, editor, publisher and historian of ideas and literature.\n\nEdenborg has studied the history of alchemy, and completed a PhD in the History of Ideas at Stockholm University in 2002 with a dissertation on alchemy in Sweden in the age of Enlightenment, \"The shame of alchemy: expulsion of the alchemical tradition from the public sphere\". The work was awarded with the Paracelsus prize by the Swedish Paracelsus Society and was published in an extended second edition in 2004. He had previously touched on the subject in his biography of Gustaf Bonde, a Swedish 18th century statesman known for his political memoirs, who was also a pseudo-historian in the Rudbeckian tradition and an alchemist, and in an article on another Swedish alchemist, Fabian Wilhelm af Ekenstam, both from 1997. He teaches at Stockholm University.\n\nEdenborg was one of the founding members of the Stockholm Surrealist Group in 1986 and published several books on its publishing company \"Surrealistförlaget\". During the 1990s he started his own publishing company, \"Vertigo\", which, among other things, has published a Swedish translation of Horace Walpole's \"The Castle of Otranto\" (\"Borgen i Otranto, 1996) in Paul Soares' translation. Edenborg has taken an interest in early pornography and other literature beyond the mainstream canon. He has written a short article in the bibliographic journal \"Biblis\" on \"the first Swedish pornography\". Vertigo has published the Marquis de Sade in Swedish translation, and a series of books called the \"Classics of transgressions\" (\"Överträdelsens klassiker\"), including works by Dennis Cooper, Samuel_R._Delany, Georges Bataille, Gabrielle Wittkop, Pauline Réage and more in the same tradition.\n\nIn 2011, he co-wrote a graphic novel with his then wife, the illustrator Loka Kanarp: \"Hungerhuset\". It was translated to French: \"La Maison de la Faim\" by French editor Actes Sud. In 2012, Edenborg's novel \"Mitt grymma öde\" about the life of composer George Frideric Händel was published to some critical acclaim. In the same year he wrote a manifesto, \"Det parapornografiska manifestet\", which was published in the U.S. by Action books under the title \"The Parapornographic Manifesto\". Recently, he has revealed that he also wrote the novels and short stories that were published under the pseudonym Gunnar Blå.\n\nEdenborg works as a critic for the Swedish daily newspaper \"Aftonbladet\" and runs a café that was first located in Stockholm's Old Town but now is in Södermalm.\n\n"}
{"id": "23692248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23692248", "title": "Carlos Ibarguren", "text": "Carlos Ibarguren\n\nCarlos Ibarguren Uriburu (April 18, 1877 – April 3, 1956) was an Argentine academic, historian and politician. As a writer he was noted as one of the foremost academics of the history of Argentina as well as a leading expert on constitutional law. Politically he was initially associated with the liberal tendency amongst the country's intelligentsia before moving to far right nationalism in later life.\n\nIbarguren was born on Salta, in 1877. An academic by profession, Ibarguren was a professor of law at the University of Buenos Aires, his alma mater. Recognised for his fine legal and constitutional mind from 1904 onwards he held several undersecretary positions within the government. Utilising his experience Roque Sáenz Peña appointed him as justice minister during his administration of Roque Sáenz Peña, a position he held until 1914.\n\nAfter this spell in office, Ibarguren continued as a supporter of the Radical Civic Union for a time. However he became a founder of the Democratic Progressive Party in 1914 and served as its vice-president whilst also drafting its programme. In this role he became a strong critic of the government of Hipólito Yrigoyen. He was an unsuccessful candidate in the 1920 legislative elections, part of a list of intellectuals that included the likes of Lisandro de la Torre and Ezequiel Ramos Mexía but which failed to make an impact with the voters. He was chosen as Democratic Progressive candidate for the 1922 presidential election, although he managed only 7.7% of the vote.\n\nUp to this point, Ibarguren had been associated with the liberalism that defined Argentina's cultural elite but the setbacks of 1920 saw his positions alter. His book of the same year, \"La literatura y la gran guerra\", demonstrated a shift to the nationalism that was to come to dominate his political thought. He argued that democracy left the door open to too many disparate groups and that it needed brakes which should be provided by a united conservative right. Politically Ibarguren grew interested in using the masses as a bulwark of reactionary activity and as such moved close to the ideas of fascism.\n\nFollowing the 1930 coup of Gen. José Félix Uriburu, Ibarguren petitioned the new president to switch to corporatism and this economic model came to dominate his thinking until, under Ibarguren's advice, Juan Perón allowed the corporations to be represented in parliament in 1948. Despite this however, Ibarguren held no formal positions within the governments of either Uriburu or Perón and largely concentrated on his academic pursuits. His last political role of note was as De facto Federal Interventor of Córdoba from 1930 to 1931, a post entrusted to him by Uriburu. Ibarguren died in Buenos Aires, in 1956.\n\nIbarguren was especially noted for his work on the history of Argentina, with his most celebrated books being \"Juan Manuel de Rosas\" (1930), \"Las sociedades literarias y la revolución argentina\" (1938) and \"La historia que he vivido\" (1955). He also served as president of the Argentine Academy of Letters.\n"}
{"id": "48925635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48925635", "title": "Carnation Gold Rush", "text": "Carnation Gold Rush\n\n\"The Carnation Gold Rush\" is a term used by Denver locals, historians and preservationists to represent the period between the 1880s and 1930s when the floriculture industry developed and thrived in Colorado.\n\n In 1863, as the silver and gold mining days of Colorado were winding down, those who didn’t strike it rich were searching for ways to bring goods and services to the growing population of Denver. In 1872, Denver constructed an irrigation ditch that carried water from the Platte River Canyon into Denver. With this new source of consistent water, growers soon discovered the bright sunny days and virgin soils of Denver were ideal for growing vegetables and cut flowers.\n\nFew varieties of carnations were available during those early days and competition was fierce. Many independent growers marketed their carnations through sales outlets in their greenhouses or by selling the mature flowers to retail florists. Growers had to contend with weather extremes that required either charcoal heaters in delivery wagons during winter so the flowers wouldn’t freeze or battling the often-intense summer heat when the crops could easily wilt. Nonetheless, business flourished. Floral arrangements featuring carnations were a common gift to the women of Denver's tenderloin district as well as high society.\n\nThe first greenhouse in Denver was constructed in 1891. By 1900, the floral industry had approximately 400,000 square feet of greenhouse glass covering its nurseries. The Riverside Cemetery at 52nd and Brighton Blvd, Mauff Floral Company in the 1200 block of Logan St., established in 1880, Colfax Floral at East Colfax and Josephine, Park Floral at 17th and York, and Curtis Park Floral at 34th and Downing were some of the first establishments dedicated to the public’s desire for carnations. Colorado's Carnation Gold Rush had begun.\n\nA marketing and grading system for carnations was established in the early 1900s. Swedish immigrant and founder of the Denver Wholesale Florist s, N.A. Benson, recognized that Colorado carnations were a valuable commodity that could be marketed nationally. He was instrumental in standardizing prices and insisting on quality from all growers. Around that time, J. Edward Johnson, of the Pikes Peak Floral Company in Colorado Springs began shipping the prized Colorado carnations to neighboring states.\n\nIn the fall of 1917, George Brenkert of Washington Park Floral entered his newly developed shell pink carnation called “Denver” in the Denver Society of Ornamental Horticulturists. While he didn’t win in that show, the “Denver” carnation attracted attention and later won a Bronze Medal in the 1921 National Flower Show in Washington, DC. Colorado was becoming known for its thriving carnation and cut flower business.President Elect Harding wore a Colorado carnation in his lapel on his inauguration day. He was carrying on a tradition established by his predecessor, President William McKinley. McKinley always wore a red carnation in his lapel, and ordered fresh carnations to his office daily. McKinley’s birthday, January 29 is still recognized as the official Carnation Day.\n\nBy 1919, the 15th Census of the United States reported that the value of sales for floral crops in Colorado was $1,145,000.\n\nFrom 1925 to 1927 greenhouse space used for plants and flowers more than doubled in the state of Colorado.\n\nBy 1926, Colorado produced an estimated 8,000,000 blooms of carnations.\n\nBy 1927, the floriculture industry in Colorado was shipping to 20 states. By that time, there were approximately 5,000,000 square feet of greenhouse glass on operating nurseries in Colorado.The demand for Colorado carnations was growing. Colorado was \"rapidly becoming recognized as the carnation state\", because of the excellent quality of the blooms and the fact that they could be produced year round. 1927 was the first year the floriculture industry of Colorado was recognized in the Colorado Year Book published by the Colorado State Planning Division\n\nIn 1928, Colorado's production of Carnations reached 12,000,000 blooms. 10 states depended entirely on Colorado for their supplies of flowers.\n\nBy 1929, there were 101 establishments, cultivating 1,582.463 square feet of carnation beds with the annual gross income of the Colorado's Floral industry of approximately $5,000,000 topping the value of metallic gold mined that year in the state. Colorado became famous throughout the country for carnations of \"brilliant color, unusual size and lasting quality. \" Colorado carnations made their way to New York, London and Cuba.\n\nBy 1931, Colorado was considered one of the most important states in the union for the productions of flowers including Carnation, Roses, and Gypsophilia (Baby Breath).\n\nLocal greenhouses continued to prosper and be built, particularly in the northwest corner of Denver and its suburbs. Wheat Ridge, Colorado still celebrates an annual Carnation Festival. New varieties continued to be developed including the White Ward and Hilda Varieties.\n\nThe early Denver growers began an industry that would shape Colorado’s economy and landscape. They helped to establish an orderly system to provide quality cut flowers to the nation and beyond. Some of the Colorado family names associated with the Carnation Gold Rush are Amato, Elitch, Lambourn, Lehrer, Maler, and Spano.\n\n"}
{"id": "7085293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7085293", "title": "Charles Allen (writer)", "text": "Charles Allen (writer)\n\nCharles Allen (born 1940) is a British freelance writer and popular historian who lives in London. His British parents were both born in India and his prolific works focus on the British Raj.\n\nAllen's work focuses largely on India and the Indian Subcontinent in general. Among his works are \"\", a biography of Rudyard Kipling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50332278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50332278", "title": "City of Prague Museum", "text": "City of Prague Museum\n\nThe City of Prague Museum is located in Prague, Czech Republic. Langweil's Model of Prague is exhibited in the main building of the museum.\n\nMuseum´s Buildings:\nTha Main Building,\nPodskalí Custom House at Výtoň,\nCtěnice Chateau,\nPrague Towers,\nHouse at the Golden Ring,\nArchitectural Triangle. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30074296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30074296", "title": "Criticism of the Israeli government", "text": "Criticism of the Israeli government\n\nCriticism of the Israeli government, often referred to simply as criticism of Israel, is an ongoing subject of journalistic and scholarly commentary and research within the scope of International relations theory, expressed in terms of political science. Within the scope of global aspirations for a community of nations, Israel has faced international criticism since its declaration of independence in 1948 relating to a variety of topics, both historical and contemporary.\n\nThe government of Israel has been criticized for issues regarding Israeli settlements in the Palestinian territories, its treatment of Palestinian Arabs, the conduct of Israeli Defense Forces during conflicts and the blockade of the Gaza Strip, of Palestinian territories. Other historic issues with ongoing consequences have also been criticized including: the refusal to allow post-war Palestinian refugees to return to their homes, and the prolonged occupation of territories gained in war and the construction of settlements therein.\n\nIsrael's status as a representative democracy has also been questioned because Israeli residents of the occupied territories are allowed to vote in Israel's elections while Palestinian residents are not. Another source of criticism is the friction generated by the conversion issue between Israel's orthodox rabbinate and non-orthodox segments of the Jewish diaspora. At one end of the spectrum are attempts to delegitimize Israel's right to exist. This has led to an ongoing debate regarding at what point criticism of Israel crosses the line to antisemitism. One of the effects of international criticism has been the impact on social psychology of the Israeli Jewish public - according to a survey more than half of Israelis believe \"the whole world is against us\", and three quarters of Israelis believe \"that no matter what Israel does or how far it goes towards resolving the conflict with the Palestinians, the world will continue to criticize Israel\".\n\nCriticisms of Israeli policies come from several groups: primarily from activists, within Israel and worldwide, the United Nations and other non-governmental organizations including European Churches, and mass media. Media bias is often claimed by both sides of the debate. Since 2003, the UN has issued 232 resolutions with respect to Israel, 40% of all resolutions issued by the UN over the period and more than six times that of the second placed country, Sudan.\n\nPalestinian refugees are defined by the UN as Arabs who lived in Palestine for at least two years prior to 1948 and their descendants, and who fled or were expelled from their homes during and after the 1948 Palestine War.\n\nThe causes and responsibilities of the exodus are a matter of controversy among historians and commentators of the conflict. Whereas historians now agree on most of the events of that period, there remains disagreement as to whether the exodus was the result of a plan designed before or during the war by Zionist leaders or was an unintended consequence of the war.\n\nSignificant international pressure was placed on both sides during the 1949 Lausanne Conference to resolve the refugee crisis. The parties signed a joint protocol on the framework for a comprehensive peace, which included territories, refugees, and Jerusalem, in which Israel agreed \"in principle\" to allow the return of all of the Palestinian refugees. According to New Historian Ilan Pappe, this Israeli agreement was made under pressure from the United States, and because the Israelis wanted United Nations membership, which required Israeli agreement to allow the return of all refugees. Once Israel was admitted to the UN, it retreated from the protocol it had signed because it was completely satisfied with the status quo and saw no need to make any concessions with regard to the refugees or on boundary questions. This led to significant and sustained international criticism.\n\n\"New Historian\" Ilan Pappe argued in \"The Ethnic Cleansing of Palestine\" that Israel's policy between 1947 and 1949, when \"over 400 Palestinian villages were deliberately destroyed, civilians were massacred, and around a million men, women, and children were expelled from their homes at gunpoint\" is best described as ethnic cleansing. However, Pappe's work has been subject to significant criticism and allegations of fabrication by other historians.\n\nFor example, Israeli historian Benny Morris called Pappe \"At best... one of the world’s sloppiest historians; at worst, one of the most dishonest.\" When asked about the 1948 Palestinian exodus from Lydda and Ramle, he responded \"There are circumstances in history that justify ethnic cleansing. I know that this term is completely negative in the discourse of the 21st century, but when the choice is between ethnic cleansing and genocide - the annihilation of your people - I prefer ethnic cleansing. [...] There was no choice but to expel that population. It was necessary to cleanse the hinterland and cleanse the border areas and cleanse the main roads. It was necessary to cleanse the villages from which our convoys and our settlements were fired on.\" He also added in 2008, that \"\"There was no Zionist \"plan\" or blanket policy of evicting the Arab population, or of \"ethnic cleansing\". Plan Dalet (Plan D), of 10 March 1948 ... was the master plan ... to counter the expected pan-Arab assault on the emergent Jewish state\"\".\n\nThe territories occupied by Israel from Egypt, Jordan, and Syria after the Six-Day War of 1967 have been designated as occupied territory by the United Nations and many other international organisations, governments and others. They consist of the West Bank and much of the Golan Heights. From the Six-Day War until 1982, the Sinai Peninsula was occupied by Israel, but it was returned to Egypt in the Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty. The Gaza Strip was also occupied by Israel until its unilateral disengagement. UN Security Council resolution 242, emphasized \"the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by war,\" setting the stage for controversy on the legal status of areas captured in 1967, and in 1948. There are two interpretations of international law this matter:\nThe Israeli position is that:\nThe Arab position is that:\n\nIsrael's annexation of East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights in 1980-1 by the Jerusalem Law and the Golan Heights Law has not been recognised by any other country. The Palestinian Authority, the EU, and the UN Security Council consider East Jerusalem to be part of the West Bank, a position disputed by Israel. International bodies such as the United Nations have condemned the Jerusalem Law as a violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention and therefore hold that the establishment of the city as Israel's capital is against international law. Consequently, countries have established embassies to Israel's government outside of Jerusalem.\n\nIsrael unilaterally disengaged from Gaza in September 2005, and declared itself no longer to be in occupation of the Strip. This has been contested by the UN, which though not declaring Gaza \"occupied\" under the legal definition, has referred to Gaza under the nomenclature of \"Occupied Palestinian Territories\". Some groups do assert that Gaza is legally occupied.\n\nDespite the fact that Israeli security legislation for Palestinian territories does not state that military law applies only to Arab residents of the territories, and not to Jews or to Israeli citizens. Israeli citizens are governed by Israeli law whereas Palestinians are governed by military law.\n\nSome Israeli individuals such as Avraham Burg, Ilan Pappé, Gershom Gorenberg, David Remnick, Oren Yiftachel, and Miko Peled and organisations as Human Rights Watch, B'tselem, Peace Now and others have questioned Israel's status as a democracy. These questions focus on the lack of democracy in the Israeli-occupied territories, not Israel proper. Such criticisms are based on the belief that both Israeli citizens in settlements and Palestinians should be given the right to suffrage, considering the Palestinians are effectively under Israeli authority and thus should benefit from it. They share a concern that the occupation of the territories is not temporary, given the over forty-five year duration and the large and the permanent nature of the Israeli settlements.\n\nThe participating High Contracting Parties to the Fourth Geneva Convention, numerous UN resolutions, the International Court of Justice and other instances have ruled that Israel's policy of establishing civilian settlements in territories considered occupied, including in East Jerusalem, is illegal. Israel disputes the notion that the West Bank and in particular East Jerusalem are occupied under international law, though this view is dismissed internationally.\n\nIsrael's settlement policy has drawn harsh criticism from the United States and the European Union.\n\nAli Jarbawi called the policy as “one of the only remaining settler-colonial occupations in the world today.”. In his book “Hollow Land: Israel's Architecture of Occupation”, Eyal Weizman describes Israel’s policy as a “political system at the heart of this complex and terrifying project of late-modern colonial occupation.”\n\nThe international community criticized Israel for 'failing to protect the Palestinian population' from Israeli settler violence.\n\nHuman Rights Watch (HRW) has said Israel operates a \"two-tier\" judicial system in areas of the occupied Palestinian territories it administers, to an effect which provides preferential services, development, and benefits for Israelis living in settlements in the occupied territories while imposing harsh conditions on Palestinians and other non-Israeli citizens. In some cases Israel has acknowledged differential treatment of Palestinians and Israelis, such as having separate roads for both communities and operating checkpoints for Palestinians, asserting that the measures are necessary to protect Israelis from attacks by Palestinian armed groups. \nIn 2011 the Israeli parliament passed a law criminalizing participation in boycotts of Israeli settlements. The law drew criticism from the EU, the United States and the Anti-Defamation League.\n\nAmnesty International reported that in 2009 hundreds of Palestinians were detained and held incommunicado for extended periods of time by Israel. While most were later released without charge, hundreds were tried before military courts whose procedures often failed to meet international standards for fair trial. According to Amnesty, almost all Palestinian prisoners were held in violation of international humanitarian law, which prohibits the transfer of detainees to the territory of the occupying power (i.e., Israel proper). It claimed that about 300 minors and 550 adults were held without charge or trial for more than a year.\n\nIn 2011, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon said Israel held thousands of Palestinians as prisoners, and called on Israel to release them. Ban said the release of political prisoners would \"serve as a significant confidence-building measure\" and boost prospects of peace in the region. Also Amnesty International has called on Israel to release political prisoners, saying \"all political prisoners held without charge or trial should be tried in fair trials or immediately released\". Israel objects to releasing prisoners, many of whom have been convicted by Israeli courts for violent crimes such as murder . However, several prisoner release deals have been conducted by Israel as a gesture in negotiations, many which involved the release of hundreds or more prisoners.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, methods of torture used by Israel on Palestinian prisoners include prolonged tying in painful stress positions, sleep deprivation and threats to harm detainees’ families. Beatings and other ill-treatment of detainees are common during and following arrest and during transfer from one location to another.\n\nOrganizations such as Amnesty International, the Association for Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI), the Israeli government-appointed Or Commission, and the United States Department of State have published reports that document racism and discrimination directed towards racial and ethnic groups in Israel.\n\nAccording to a study commissioned by Israel's Courts administration and Israel Bar Association, Arab Israelis who have been charged with certain types of crime are more likely than their Jewish counterparts to be convicted, and once convicted they are more likely to be sent to prison. The study also found differences in lengths of prison sentences given, with the average prison sentence at nine and a half months for Jews and 14 months for Arabs.\n\nRights groups have said that anti-discrimination employment laws in Israel are rarely enforced. A coalition of nine Israeli rights groups has opposed a practice under which companies can advertise their policy to hire only Jewish Israelis, and no Arab Israelis. Companies advertising under a \"Hebrew labor\" banner adhere to a segregated employment philosophy derived from a practice by Jewish immigrants in Palestine in the first half of the 20th century which was meant to strengthen emerging Israeli industry from British and Arab influence.\n\nIn February 2011, Netanyahu called German Chancellor Angela Merkel to complain about Germany's vote in favor of a resolution at the United Nations Security Council to declare Israeli settlements to be illegal and she responded \"How dare you! You are the one who disappointed us. You haven't made a single step to advance peace.\" A few days later veteran Israeli diplomat Ilan Baruch resigned saying that Netanyahu's policies were leading to Israel's delegitimization.\n\nThe IDF acknowledged using the \"Neighbor Procedure” or the “Early Warning Procedure”, in which the IDF would encourage a Palestinian acquaintance of a wanted man to try to convince him to surrender. This practice was criticized by some as using \"human shields\", an allegation the IDF denied, saying that it never forced people into carrying out the Neighbor Procedure; and that Palestinians volunteered to prevent excess loss of life.\nAmnesty International and Human Rights Watch are among the groups who made the \"human shield\" comparison. The Israeli group B'Tselem also made the comparison, saying that \"for a long period of time following the outbreak of the second intifada Operation Defensive Shield, in April 2002, the IDF systematically used Palestinian civilians as human shields, forcing them to carry out military actions which threatened their lives\". The Neighbor Procedure was outlawed by the Supreme Court of Israel in 2005 but some groups say the IDF continues to use it, although they say the number of instances has dropped sharply.\n\nIsrael is seen to possess a nuclear arsenal of about 150 weapons, and Israel has been criticised for maintaining nuclear weapons and for not agreeing to a nuclear-free Middle East zone. In September 2009, the IAEA passed a resolution that \"expresses concern about the Israeli nuclear capabilities, and calls upon Israel to accede to the NPT and place all its nuclear facilities under comprehensive IAEA safeguards...\" \n\nIsrael has signed the Chemical Weapons Convention but not ratified it, citing neighbouring states that have not done so either. Israel is widely believed to have chemical weapons but officials have never directly admitted it, although in 1990 Science Minister Yuval Neeman threatened to retaliate against an Iraqi chemical-weapons strike \"with the same merchandise\". Israel has not signed the Biological Weapons Convention.\n\nAmnesty International has condemned Israel's policy of assassinations targeting individuals. Israeli officials have admitted that the policy exists and is being pursued, saying it helps prevent acts of terrorism from being committed against Israel. The United States has a very similar policy. Criticism against has been raised also from some on the Israeli left, who say assassination policy is \"gangster behavior\" unbecoming of a government and is against Israeli law. Israel's Supreme Court has ruled that assassinations are illegal, but leaked documents suggest that Israel's army has ignored the ruling.\n\nThe term \"Judaization of Jerusalem\" refers to the view that Israel has sought to transform the physical and demographic landscape of Jerusalem to correspond with a vision of a united and fundamentally Jewish Jerusalem under Israeli sovereignty.\n\nThe United Nations has criticised Israel's efforts to change the demographic makeup of Jerusalem in several resolutions. All legislative and administrative measures taken by Israel, which have altered or aimed to alter the character, legal status and demographic composition of Jerusalem, are described by the UN as \"null and void\" and having \"no validity whatsoever\". Richard Falk, an investigator with the U.N. Human Rights Council, said that Israel's expansion of East Jerusalem settlements and evictions of Palestinian residents can \"only be described in its cumulative impact as a form of ethnic cleansing\".\n\nIn a 2008 report, John Dugard, independent investigator for the United Nations Human Rights Council, cites the Judaization of Jerusalem among many examples of Israeli policies \"of colonialism, apartheid or occupation\" that create a context in which Palestinian terrorism is \"an inevitable consequence\".\n\nIsrael has enacted a Law of Return that allows Jews a fast-track to Israeli citizenship. Palestinian refugees cannot apply for Israeli citizenship under the law since they are not Jewish, though they can apply for Israeli citizenship through the conventional channel. The law has drawn criticism from the Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies which says the law is a \"main example of Israeli laws that discriminate against Palestinian Arabs\". The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee says the contrast between the Law of Return and Israeli opposition to the right of return of Palestinian refugees exhibits \"barefaced racism\". More than 1,000 American Jews have backed a campaign entitled “Breaking the Law of Return”, saying the Law of Return creates an ethnically exclusive citizenship, which they see as unjust.\n\nCritics claim that the guaranteed right for Jews to immigrate to Israel is discriminatory to non-Jews and therefore runs counter to the democratic value of equality under the law.\n\nFormer Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak stated the current Israeli government is “infected by seeds of fascism” and \"needs to be brought down.\" Zionist Union MK Tzipi Livni stated the government was in a state of \"crisis — not only of leadership but of ethics.”\n\nThe UN has issued 232 resolutions with respect to Israel since 2003, representing 40% of all resolutions issued by the UN over the period and more than six times that of the second placed country, Sudan.\n\nAccording to testimony by the pro-Israel human rights NGO UN Watch to the United States Congress in January 2011 with respect to the United Nations Human Rights Council, Israel has been the focus of 70% of approximately 50 condemnatory resolutions by the council, 60% of the ten Special Sessions of the council and 100% of the council's five fact-finding missions or inquiries.\n\nComparisons between apartheid South Africa and Israel are increasingly made. Israelis recoil at the analogy, but the parallel is widely drawn in international circles.\n\nThe Association for Civil Rights in Israel, a group in Israel with support from several EU states, asserted in 2008 that the separate road networks in the West Bank for Israelis and Palestinians, the expansion of Jewish settlements, restriction of the growth of Palestinian towns and discriminatory granting of services, budgets and access to natural resources are \"a blatant violation of the principle of equality and in many ways reminiscent of the Apartheid regime in South Africa\".\n\nIsrael has also been accused of apartheid by Michael Ben-Yair, Israel's attorney-general from 1993 to 1996. and Shulamit Aloni, who served as Minister for Education under Yitzhak Rabin.\n\nSome key aspects of Israeli society are sometimes compared to Nazi Germany, directly or by allusion. Examples include: equating the Gaza Strip with concentration camps in Nazi-occupied Europe, Ariel Sharon with Joseph Goebbels, and equating the idea of Jews as the chosen people with Nazi idea of the Master Race. The IHRA Working Definition on Antisemitism consider such comparisons as antisemitic.\n\nFollowing the 1967 Six-Day War, the Soviet Union compared Israeli tactics to those of Nazi Germany. A similar comparison was made by the Israeli Arab author Nimer Nimer. Yeshayahu Leibowitz, one of Israel’s most prominent and acclaimed public intellectuals, philosophers, and scientist, and an Orthodox Jew, warned in 1982 that if the occupation continued, Israel would be in danger of succumbing to “Judeo-Nazism\".\n\nIn 1984, author Israel Stockman-Shomron noted Nazi allusions in articles critical of Israel in publications including \"The Christian Science Monitor\", \"The Washington Post\" and \"The New York Times\".\n\nExamples since the Second Intifada include:\n\nThe European Forum on Anti-Semitism stated that \"drawing comparisons of contemporary Israeli policy to that of the Nazis\" amounted to anti-Semitism. In 2006, the British All-Party Parliamentary Group against Antisemitism recommended that the UK Government adopt the same stance. Sociologist David Hirsh accuses anti-Zionists of double-standards in their criticism of Israel, and notes that other states carry out policies similar to those of Israel without those policies being described as \"Nazi\". He suggests that to describe Israel as engaged in \"genocide\" carries an unspoken accusation comparison with the Holocaust and an equation of Zionism with Nazism. British author Howard Jacobson has suggested that comparisons between conditions faced by Palestinians and those of the Warsaw Ghetto are intended \"to wound Jews in their recent and most anguished history and to punish them with their own grief\" and are a form of Holocaust denial which accepts the reality of Jewish suffering but accuses Jews \"of trying to profit from it\". \"It is as though,\" he says, \"by a reversal of the usual laws of cause and effect, Jewish actions of today prove that Jews had it coming to them yesterday.\" \n\nIn May 2018, Jewish Voice for Labour and Free Speech on Israel produced a definition of antisemitism. In notes posted on the Jewish Voice for Labour website they argued that comparing Israel's actions to those of the Nazis should not automatically be seen as antisemitic: \"Drawing such parallels can undoubtedly cause offence, but potent historical events and experiences are always key reference points in political debate. Whether such comparisons are anti-Semitic must be judged on their substantive content, and on the inferences that can reasonably be drawn about the motivation for making them, rather than on the likely degree of offence caused.\" In September, JVL contributed to the consultation on Labour's new code of conduct rejecting suggestions that comparisons between Israel and \"features of pre-war Nazi Germany\" or apartheid-era South Africa were \"inherently antisemitic\", and that \"Such comparisons are only anti-Semitic if they show prejudice, hostility or hatred against Jews as Jews.\"\n\nSome criticisms of Israel or Israeli policies have been characterized as anti-Semitic. Proponents of the concept of New Antisemitism, such as Phyllis Chesler, Gabriel Schoenfeld and Mortimer Zuckerman, argue that, since the 1967 Six-Day War, many criticisms of Israel are veiled attacks on Jews and hence are essentially antisemitic. Abba Eban, Robert S. Wistrich, and Joschka Fischer focus on criticism of Zionism, and contend that some forms of anti-Zionism, particularly attacks on Israel's right to exist, are anti-Semitic in nature.\n\nCritics of this view often portray this view as an \"equation\" of criticism with anti-Semitism. Some critics of Israel or Israeli policies, including Ralph Nader, Jenny Tonge, Noam Chomsky, and Desmond Tutu suggest that equating criticism of Israel with antisemitism is inappropriate or inaccurate. Other critics, such as John Mearsheimer, Alexander Cockburn, Norman Finkelstein, and William I. Robinson, claim that supporters of Israel sometimes equate criticism of Israel with anti-Semitism in a deliberate attempt to prevent legitimate criticism of Israel and discredit critics.\n\nHowever, proponents of the view usually argue that the equation of criticism with antisemitism is rarely made. For example, Alvin H. Rosenfeld considers this argument to be disingenuous, dismissing it as \"the ubiquitous rubric 'criticism of Israel,'\" He states that \"vigorous discussion of Israeli policy and actions is not in question,\" but rather statements that go well beyond legitimate criticism \"and call into question Israel's right to continued existence.\" Alan Dershowitz claims that some enemies of Israel pretend to be victimized by accusations of anti-Semitism, in order to garner support for their position.\n\nDina Porat (head of the Institute for Study of Anti-semitism and Racism at Tel-Aviv University) characterizes some anti-Zionist ideals as anti-Semitic, because they amount to singling-out Jews for special treatment, while all other comparable groups of people are entitled to create and maintain a homeland. She contends that anti-Zionism is anti-Semitic because it is discriminatory: \"...antisemitism is involved when the belief is articulated that of all the peoples on the globe (including the Palestinians), only the Jews should not have the right to self-determination in a land of their own. Hannah Rosenthal of the United States State Department said UN double standards against Israel constitute \"profound anti-semitism\". However, many commentators have suggested singling out Israel for disproportionate criticism is warranted as a result of Israel's actions.\n\nThe European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC) prepared a report in 2003 that distinguished criticism of Israel from anti-Semitism by testing whether \"Israel is seen as being a representative of 'the Jew'\": if the speaker is considering Israel as a representative of Jews in general, then anti-Semitism is deemed to be underlying the criticism.\nNatan Sharansky, former Soviet dissident and Israeli Minister, suggested a three-part test to distinguish legitimate criticism of Israel from anti-Semitic attacks. Sharansky's tests that identify a criticism as anti-Semitic are:\n\nDemonization and double standards are often used as evidence of anti-Semitism in relation to criticism of Israel. Sharansky believes that some criticisms involve applying an especially high moral standard to Israel, higher than applied to other countries (particularly compared to surrounding countries), yet the only special characteristic of Israel is that it is a Jewish state, hence there is an element of anti-Semitism.\n\nDelegitimization was a factor addressed by Abba Eban, who claimed that efforts to deny \"the equal rights of the Jewish people its lawful sovereignty within the community of nations\" constituted anti-Semitism.\n\nThe European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC, recently renamed to Fundamental Rights Agency) published a draft of an operational definition of antisemitism called \"Working Definition of Antisemitism\" which accompanied a report by the EUMC on report that summarized antisemitism in Europe. The EUMC working definition included five kinds of behaviors related to criticism of Israel that might be manifestations of antisemitism:\n\nThis part of the definition has proved highly contentious and is seen by many as attempting to proscribe legitimate criticism of the human rights record of the Israeli Government by attempting to bring any criticism of Israel into the category of antisemitism, and as not sufficiently distinguishing between criticism of Israeli actions and criticism of Zionism as a political ideology, on the one hand, and racially based violence towards, discrimination against, or abuse of, Jews.\n\nPaul Igansky points out that one of the EUMC anti-Semitic behaviors, comparisons between Israeli policy and those of the Nazis, is \"arguably not intrinsically antisemitic\", and that the context in which they are made is critical. Igansky illustrates this with the incident where Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin was described by fellow Jewish Israelis as cooperating with the Nazis, and depicted wearing an SS uniform. According to Igansky, the \"Nazi\" label was merely used as \"charged political rhetoric\" in this case.\n\nFollowing the 2006 EUMC report, the European Institute for the Study of Contemporary Antisemitism (EISCA) published a report in 2009 entitled \"Understanding and Addressing the ‘Nazi Card' - Intervening Against Antisemitic Discourse\" which discussed comparisons of Israel with Nazi Germany.\n\nThe 2009 report incorporated from the 2006 report the five specific kinds of criticism of Israel that should be considered as anti-Semitism (see above for a list of the five).\n\nThe report does not say all criticism of Israel is anti-Semitic: \"Abhorrence and protest against the policies, practices, and leaders of the Israeli state can be expressed in numerous forceful and trenchant ways, as they could against any other state - none of which would be antisemitic…\", and \"Drawing attention to the consequent harms in [playing the Nazi card against Israel] should not be intended, or taken, in any way as an attempt to suppress criticism of Israel and its military practices.\"\n\nAntony Lerman criticized the report, and suggested that it could be used to suppress legitimate criticism of Israel, and suggests that the report's authors do not adequately address that possibility.\n\nSome commentators have objected to the characterization of criticisms of Israel as anti-Semitic, and have often asserted that supporters of Israel equate criticism with anti-Semitism or excessively blur the distinction between the two. Examples include Michael P. Prior, Noam Chomsky, Norman Finkelstein, Michael Lerner, Antony Lerman, Ralph Nader, Jenny Tonge, Ken Livingstone, and Desmond Tutu. They provide a variety of reasons for their objections, including stifling free expression, promoting anti-Semitism, diluting genuine anti-Semitism, and alienating Jews from Judaism or Israel.\n\nMichael Lerner claims that the American Jewish community regularly tries to blur the distinction between legitimate criticism of Israel and anti-Semitism, and says it is a \"slippery slope\" to expand the definition of anti-Semitism to include legitimate criticism of Israel.\n\nPhilosophy professor Irfan Khawaja asserts that it is a \"false equation\" to equate anti-Zionism with anti-Semitism, writing \"The point is not that the charge of 'anti-Semitism' should never be made: some people deserve it…. But the equation of anti-Semitism with anti-Zionism is a farce that has gone on long enough, and it’s time that those who saw through the farce said so…\"\n\nPalestine Monitor, a Palestinian advocacy group, is critical of what it characterizes as a modern trend to expand the definition of the term \"antisemitic\", and states that the new definitions are overly vague and allow for \"indiscriminate accusations\".\n\nBrian Klug argues that anti-Zionism sometimes is a manifestation of antisemitism, but that \"[t]hey are separate\" and that to equate them is to incorrectly \"conflate the Jewish state with the Jewish people.\"\n\nEarl Raab, founding director of the Nathan Perlmutter Institute for Jewish Advocacy at Brandeis University writes that \"[t]here is a new surge of antisemitism in the world, and much prejudice against Israel is driven by such antisemitism,\" but argues that charges of antisemitism based on anti-Israel opinions generally lack credibility. He writes that \"a grave educational misdirection is imbedded in formulations suggesting that if we somehow get rid of antisemitism, we will get rid of anti-Israelism. This reduces the problems of prejudice against Israel to cartoon proportions.\" Raab describes prejudice against Israel as a \"serious breach of morality and good sense,\" and argues that it is often a bridge to antisemitism, but distinguishes it from antisemitism as such.\n\nIrfan Khawaja suggests that some legitimate criticisms of Israel are improperly attacked by deliberately conflating them with criticisms that are anti-Semitic in nature.\n\nAlexander Cockburn and Jeffrey St. Clair, in the book \"The Politics of Anti-Semitism\", write \"Apologists for Israel's repression of Palestinians toss the word 'anti-Semite' at any critic of what Zionism has meant in practice for Palestinians on the receiving end. So some of the essays in this book address the issue of what constitutes genuine anti-Semitism – Jew-hatred – as opposed to disingenuous, specious charges of 'anti-Semitism' hurled at rational appraisals of the state of Israel's political, military, and social conduct.\"\n\nNorman Finkelstein and Steven Zipperstein (professor of Jewish Culture and History at Stanford University) suggest that criticism of Israel is sometimes inappropriately considered to be anti-Semitism due to an inclination to perceive Jews as victims. Zipperstein suggests that the common attitude of seeing Jews as victims is sometimes implicitly transferred to the perception of Israel as a victim; while Finkelstein suggests that the depiction of Israel as a victim (as a \"Jew among nations\") is a deliberate ploy to stifle criticism of Israel.\n\nSander Gilman has written, \"One of the most recent forms of Jewish self-hatred is the virulent opposition to the existence of the State of Israel.\" He uses the term not against those who criticize Israel's policy, but against Jews who oppose Israel's existence.\nMichael Lerner, editor of \"Tikkun\" magazine, asserts that the equation of Criticism of Israel with anti-Semitism has resulted in conflict within the Jewish community, in particular, proponents of the equation sometimes attack Jewish critics of Israeli policies as \"self-hating Jews\". Lerner also claims that the equation of Criticism of Israel with anti-Semitism and the resulting charges of \"self hating Jew\" has resulted in the alienation of young Jews from their faith.\n\nAntony Lerman believes that many attacks on Jewish critics of Israel are \"vitriolic, ad hominem and indiscriminate\" and claims that anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism have been defined too broadly and without reason. Lerman also states that the \"redefinition\" of anti-Semitism to include anti-Zionism has caused Jews to attack other Jews, because many Jews are leaders in several anti-Zionist organizations.\n\nNicholas Saphir, Chair of the Board of Trustees of the New Israel Fund in the UK published an open letter defending non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that operate within Israel to promote civil rights. He said that several organisations such as NGO Monitor, Israel Resource News Agency, WorldNetDaily and the Near and Middle East Policy Review \"associate moral and ethical criticism of any activity by Israel or the policies of its Government as being anti-Israel, anti-Semitic and when conducted by Jews, as evidence of self-hatred.\"\n\nThe International Jewish Anti-Zionist Network is also opposed to the use of the antisemitic label to suppress criticism, and objected to the \"fear tactics\" employed when the anti-Semitic label was applied to supporters of Israel Apartheid Week, claiming that it was reminiscent of the anti-Communist scare tactics of the 1950s.\n\nMichael Lerner suggests that some United States politicians are reluctant to criticise Israel because they are afraid of being labelled anti-Semitic. Lerner also states that groups that promote peace in the mid-East are afraid to form coalitions, lest they be discredited by what Lerner terms the \"Jewish Establishment\".\n\nBrian Klug asserts that proponents of New Antisemitism define antisemitism so broadly that they deprive the term \"antisemitism\" of all meaning. Klug writes: \"... when anti-Semitism is everywhere, it is nowhere. And when every anti-Zionist is an anti-Semite, we no longer know how to recognize the real thing--the concept of anti-Semitism loses its significance.\"\n\nIn the book \"The Politics of Anti-Semitism\" Scott Handleman writes: \"Partisans of Israel often make false accusations of anti-Semitism to silence Israel's critics. The 'antisemite' libel is harmful not only because it censors debate about Israel's racism and human rights abuses but because it trivializes the ugly history of Jew-hatred.\"\n\nBrian Klug argues that excessive claims of anti-Semitism (leveled at critics of Israel) may backfire and contribute to anti-Semitism, and he writes \"a McCarthyite tendency to see anti-Semites under every bed, arguably contributes to the climate of hostility toward Jews\"\n\nTony Judt also suggests that Israel's \"insistent identification\" of criticism of Israel with anti-Semitism is now the leading source of anti-Jewish sentiment in the world.\n\nMichael Lerner echos those thoughts and suggests that the continued \"repression\" of criticism of Israel may eventually \"explode\" in an outburst of genuine anti-Semitism.\n\nMichael Lerner claims that some supporters of Israel refuse to discuss legitimate criticisms of Israel (such as comparisons with apartheid) and instead attack the people who raise such criticisms, thus deliberately \"shifting the discourse to the legitimacy of the messenger and thus avoiding the substance of the criticisms\".\n\nAlan Dershowitz distinguishes between legitimate criticism of Israel and anti-Semitism, but he claims that some \"enemies of Israel\" encourage the equation of the two, because it makes the enemies appear to be victims of false accusations of anti-Semitism, which the enemies use in an attempt to gain sympathy for their cause.\n\nA number of commentators have debated whether public criticism of Israel is suppressed outside of Israel, particularly within the United States. Stephen Zunes writes that \"assaults on critics of Israeli policies have been more successful in limiting open debate, but this gagging censorship effect stems more from ignorance and liberal guilt than from any all-powerful Israel lobby.\" He goes on to explain that while \"some criticism of Israel really is rooted in anti-Semitism,\" it is his opinion that some members of the Israel lobby cross the line by labeling intellectually honest critics of Israel as anti-Semitic. Zunes argues that the mainstream and conservative Jewish organizations have \"created a climate of intimidation against many who speak out for peace and human rights or who support the Palestinians' right of self-determination.\" Zunes has been on the receiving end of this criticism himself: \"As a result of my opposition to US support for the Israeli government's policies of occupation, colonization and repression, I have been deliberately misquoted, subjected to slander and libel, and falsely accused of being \"anti-Semitic\" and \"supporting terrorism\"; my children have been harassed and my university's administration has been bombarded with calls for my dismissal.\" In an opinion piece for \"The Guardian\", Jimmy Carter wrote that mainstream American politics does not give equal time to the Palestinian side of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and that this is due at least in part to AIPAC. George Soros has claimed that there are risks associated with what was in his opinion a suppression of debate:\n\"I do not subscribe to the myths propagated by enemies of Israel and I am not blaming Jews for anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism predates the birth of Israel. Neither Israel's policies nor the critics of those policies should be held responsible for anti-Semitism. At the same time, I do believe that attitudes toward Israel are influenced by Israel's policies, and attitudes toward the Jewish community are influenced by the pro-Israel lobby's success in suppressing divergent views.\"\n\nOn the other hand, in his book, \"The Deadliest Lies\", Abraham Foxman referred to the notion that the pro-Israel lobby is trying to censor criticism of Israel as a \"canard.\" Foxman writes that the Jewish community is capable of telling the difference between legitimate criticism of Israel \"and the demonization, delegitimization, and double standards employed against Israel that is either inherently anti-Semitic or generates an environment of anti-Semitism.\" Jonathan Rosenblum expressed similar thoughts: \"Indeed, if there were an Israel lobby, and labeling all criticism of Israel as anti-Semitic were its tactic, the steady drumbeat of criticism of Israel on elite campuses and in the elite press would be the clearest proof of its inefficacy.\" Alan Dershowitz wrote that he welcomes \"reasoned, contextual and comparative criticism of Israeli policies and actions.\" If one of the goals of the pro-Israel lobby was to censor criticism of Israel, Dershowitz writes, \"it would prove that 'the Lobby' is a lot less powerful than the authors would have us believe.\"\n\nSeveral commentators have asserted that supporters of Israel attempt to stifle legitimate criticism of Israel by unfairly labeling critics as antisemitic.\nOne of the major themes of Norman Finkelstein's book \"\" is that some supporters of Israel employ accusations of anti-Semitism to attack critics of Israel, with the goal of discrediting the critics and silencing the criticism. Professors Judy Rebick and Alan Sears, in response to Israel Apartheid Week activities at Carleton University, wrote an open letter to the University president which claimed that accusations of anti-Semitism are sometimes made with the goal of \"silencing\" criticism of Israel.\n\nJournalist Peter Beaumont also claims that some proponents of the concept of New Antisemitism conflate criticism of Israel with anti-Semitism. Tariq Ali, a British-Pakistani historian and political activist, argues that the concept of new antisemitism amounts to an attempt to subvert the language in the interests of the State of Israel. He writes that the campaign against \"the supposed new 'anti-semitism'\" in modern Europe is a \"cynical ploy on the part of the Israeli Government to seal off the Zionist state from any criticism of its regular and consistent brutality against the Palestinians... Criticism of Israel can not and should not be equated with anti-semitism.\" He argues that most pro-Palestinian, anti-Zionist groups that emerged after the Six-Day War were careful to observe the distinction between anti-Zionism and antisemitism.\n\nJewish Voice for Peace has spoken against what they see as the abuse of the antisemitic label. For example, in an opinion piece, they wrote \"For decades, some leaders of the Jewish community have made the preposterous claim that there is complete unity of belief and interest between all Jews and the Israeli government, no matter what its policies. They must believe their own propaganda, because they see no difference between criticism of the Israeli government and anti-Semitism, and they do everything they can to silence critical voices. If the brand of anti-Semitism is not sufficiently intimidating, the silencing has been enforced by organized phone and letter-writing campaigns, boycotts, threats of, and actual withdrawal of funding support from 'offending' institutions and individuals.\"\n\nJohn Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt claim that the accusations of anti-Semitism leveled at critics of Israel are deliberately timed to defuse the impact of the criticisms. They suggest a pattern where accusations of antisemitism rise immediately following aggressive actions by Israel: following the Six-Day War, following the 1982 Lebanon War, and following exposure of \"brutal behavior in the Occupied Territories\" in 2002.\n\nNorman Finkelstein says that to further a public relations campaign, apologists for Israel make accusations of what they call a \"new anti-Semitism\" against those they oppose, and that they do so deliberately in order to undermine critics and bolster the nation's image. Finkelstein also asserts that \"American Jewish organizations\" purposefully increase vocal accusations of anti-Semitism during episodes when Israel is coming under increased criticism (such as the during the Intifada), with the goal of discrediting critics of Israel.\n\nCritics of Israel who have been accused of antisemitism and have denied the allegation include Ralph Nader, John Mearsheimer, Cindy Sheehan, Jenny Tonge, Ken Livingstone, Desmond Tutu, and Helen Thomas.\n\nProfessor J. Lorand Matory is a vocal critic of Israel who supports disinvestment from Israel. Larry Summers, president of Harvard, called efforts by Matory and others to divest from Israel \"anti-Semitic in effect, if not intent.\" According to Matory, \"the knee jerk accusation that targeted criticism of Israel singles out Israel is as absurd as stating that the anti-apartheid movement was singling out South Africa.\"\n\nProfessor Noam Chomsky argues that Israel's foreign minister Abba Eban equated anti-Zionism with anti-Semitism in an effort to \"exploit anti-racist sentiment for political ends\", citing statement Eban made in 1973: \"One of the chief tasks of any dialogue with the Gentile world is to prove that the distinction between anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism is not a distinction at all.\" Commenting on Eban's statement, Chomsky replied: \"That is a convenient stand. It cuts off a mere 100 percent of critical comment!\" In 2002, Chomsky wrote that this equation of anti-Zionism with anti-Semitism was being extended to criticism of Israeli policies, not just criticism of Zionism. Chomsky also wrote that, when the critics of Israel are Jewish, the accusations of anti-Semitism involve descriptions of self-hatred. In 2004, Chomsky said \"If you identify the country, the people, the culture with the rulers, accept the totalitarian doctrine, then yeah, it's anti-Semitic to criticize the Israeli policy, and anti-American to criticize the American policy, and it was anti-Soviet when the dissidents criticized Russian policy. You have to accept deeply totalitarian assumptions not to laugh at this.\" However, Oliver Kamm contends that Chomsky inaccurately interpreted Eban's comments.\n\nMusician Roger Waters is a critic of Israel's treatment of Palestinians, and was accused by the ADL of using anti-Semitic imagery in one of his recent musical productions. Waters responded by stating that the ADL regularly portrays critics of Israel as anti-Semitic, and that \"it is a screen they [the ADL] hide behind\".\n\nIn 2002 Desmond Tutu is a critic of Israel who has compared Israel's policies to apartheid South Africa. Tutu wrote that criticism of Israel is suppressed in the United States, and that criticisms of Israel are \"immediately dubbed anti-Semitic\".\n\nMichael Prior was a vocal critic of Israel's treatment of Palestinians, and who was frequently accused of anti-Semitism, yet he was careful to distinguish between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism.\n\nKen Livingstone, former mayor of the City of London, was accused of antisemitism for a variety of comments, including remarks criticizing Israel's treatment of Palestinians. In response, Livingstone wrote \"For 20 years Israeli governments have attempted to portray anyone who forcefully criticizes the policies of Israel as anti-semitic. The truth is the opposite: the same universal human values that recognize the Holocaust as the greatest racist crime of the 20th century require condemnation of the policies of successive Israeli governments - not on the absurd grounds that they are Nazi or equivalent to the Holocaust, but because ethnic cleansing, discrimination and terror are immoral.\"\n\nPeace activist Cindy Sheehan claims she has been improperly accused of being anti-Semitic because of her anti-war position, particularly her criticism of the Israel lobby and Israel's actions towards Palestinians. Sheehan emphasized that her criticism of Israel is \"not to be construed as hatred of all Jews\".\n\nPolitical scientists John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt wrote an article critical of the Israel lobby in the United States, in which they asserted that the Israel lobby uses accusations of anti-Semitism as a part of a deliberate strategy to suppress criticism of Israel. Mearsheimer and Walt themselves were accused of anti-Semitism as a result of that article and the book they wrote based on the article.\n\nJenny Tonge, member of the UK House of Lords, has frequently criticized Israel's policies, and has been labelled antisemitic. In response, she said during a speech in Parliament: \"I'm beginning to understand ... the vindictive actions the Israel lobby [and] AIPAC ... take against people who oppose and criticize the lobby... [I understand] ... the constant accusations of antisemitism - when no such sentiment exists - to silence Israel's critics.\"\n\nRalph Nader, United States politician and consumer advocate, has criticized Israel's policies, expressed support for Palestinian causes, and criticized the excessive influence of the Israel lobby on the U. S. government. In response, Nader wrote a letter to the director of the Anti-Defamation League entitled \"Criticizing Israel is Not Anti-Semitism\" in which he said \"Your mode of operation for years has been to make charges of racism or insinuation of racism designed to slander and evade. Because your pattern of making such charges, carefully calibrated for the occasion but of the same stigmatizing intent, has served to deter critical freedom of speech... The ADL should be working toward this objective [peace] and not trying to suppress realistic discourse on the subject with epithets and innuendos.\"\n\nWilliam I. Robinson, a professor at UCSB, was accused of being antisemitic due to a class assignment that revolved around Israel's attack on the Gaza strip, and he replied by stating that the Israel lobby labels \"any criticism\" of Israel as anti-Semitic In response, Robinson said: \"The fact that I did include my interpretation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is totally within what is normal and expected... One of the most pressing affairs of January was the Israeli assault on Gaza - there was nothing that could be more relevant to this course at that time. When you bring up delicate, sensitive, inflammatory, controversial material in the classroom, we as professors are carrying out our mission to jar students in order to challenge them to think critically about world issues... The Israel lobby is possibly the most powerful lobby in the United States, and what they do is label any criticism of anti-Israeli conduct and practices as anti-Semitic\" Robinson said. \"This campaign is not just an attempt to punish me. The Israel lobby is stepping up its vicious attacks on anyone who would speak out against Israeli policies.\" \n\nDr. Steven Salaita, an American expert on comparative literature and post-colonialism, became embroiled in a controversy regarding freedom of speech for faculty at American universities when his offer of employment was withdrawn from UIUC by Chancellor Dr. Phyllis Wise, a move some regard as an infringement on Salaita's freedom of speech. During the 2014 conflict between Israel and Gaza, he had published tweets that were seen as criticism of the Israeli government, and Salaita claims that as a result, pro-Israel advocates associated with the university accused him of anti-Semitism and pressured the university to rescind its offer of employment to him. As a result of his outspoken critique of the university's handling of his situation, Haaretz notes that Salaita has established \"celebrity status on the lecture circuit.\" In November 2015, Salaita and UIUC reached a settlement which included a payment of $600,000 to Salaita and covering his attorney's costs; the university did not admit any wrongdoing.\n\nMudar Zahran, a Jordanian of Palestinian heritage, writes that the \"tendency to blame Israel for everything\" has provided Arab leaders an excuse to deliberately ignore the human rights of the Palestinian in their countries. As an example, he said that while the world is furious over the blockade on Gaza, the media choose to deliberately ignore the conditions of the Palestinians living in refugee camps in Lebanon and other Arab countries.\n\nGeorge Will claims that the \"blame Israel first (and last, and in between) brigade\" is \"large and growing\".\n\nThe United Nations has never condemned China's occupation of Tibet or recognized the Tibetans' right to self-determination. Alan Dershowitz finds the UN position hypocritical, as he concludes China's occupation of Tibet has been longer, more brutal, deadlier and less justified than Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza.\n\nMinistry of Foreign Affairs (Israel) has encouraged the use of social media to counteract criticism of Israel's policies. One member of the diplomatic corps proposed more aggressive action regarding Israel's critics. In June 2012, Israel's Channel 10 published an e-mail in which Nurit Tinari-Modai, deputy head of Israel's mission in Ireland and wife of the ambassador, Boaz Moda'i, proposed harassing expatriate Israelis who criticized Israeli policies, posting photos of them and publishing disinformation that would embarrass them. She claimed that they were critical of Israel because of their sexual identity. Following the publicity about Tinari-Modai's tactics, the Foreign Ministry quickly distanced itself from her letter. Her recommendation included the following :\"You have to try and hit their soft underbellies, to publish their photographs, maybe that will cause embarrassment from their friends in Israel and their family, hoping that local activists would understand that they may actually be working on behalf of Mossad.\"\n\nInternational criticism is an important focus within Israel. According to an August 2010 survey by Tel Aviv University, more than half of Israelis believe \"the whole world is against us\", and three quarters of Israelis believe \"that no matter what Israel does or how far it goes towards resolving the conflict with the Palestinians, the world will continue to criticize Israel\". As a result, public diplomacy has been an important focus of Israeli governments since Independence. The Israeli Ministry of Public Diplomacy & Diaspora Affairs seeks to explain government policies and promote Israel in the face of what they consider negative press about Israel around the world.\n\nThe EISCA Report recommends that the British government criminalize certain kinds of anti-Semitism, particularly use of the Nazi analogy to criticize Israel, as well as other forms of criticism of Israel.\n\nPaul Craig Roberts and Antony Lerman have questioned the recommendations of the EISCA report, expressing concerns that the recommendations of the report may be adopted as a hate-crime law within Europe, which may lead to infringement of free speech, and may criminalize legitimate criticism of Israel.\n\nAuthor Paul Craig Roberts is opposed to legislation in the United States will make it a crime to criticize Israel, and as examples he cites the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act of 2004 and the Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009. Roberts asserts that lobbyists for Israel are pressing for laws that will make it a crime to discuss the power of the Israel lobby, or to discuss alleged war crimes of Israel.\n\nAntony Lerman criticized the 2009 EISCA report, and claims that criminalizing criticism of Israel (particularly, comparing Israel actions to Nazi actions) would constitute an excessive infringement of freedom of speech in Britain, postulating, for example, that \"if you said 'the way the IDF operated in Gaza was like the way the SS acted in Poland', and a Jew found this offensive, hurtful or harmful, you could, in theory, go to jail.\"\n\nBoycotts of Israel are economic and political cultural campaigns or actions that seek a selective or total cutting of ties with the State of Israel. Such campaigns are employed by those who challenge the legitimacy of Israel, Israel's policies or actions towards the Palestinians over the course of the Arab–Israeli and Israeli–Palestinian conflict, oppose Israeli territorial claims in the West Bank or Jerusalem or even oppose Israel's right to exist. Arab boycotts of Zionist institutions and Jewish businesses began before Israel's founding as a state. An official boycott was adopted by the Arab League almost immediately after the formation of the state of Israel in 1948, but is not fully implemented in practice.\n\nSimilar boycotts have been proposed outside the Arab world and the Muslim world. These boycotts comprise economic measures such as divestment; a consumer boycott of Israeli products or businesses that operate in Israel; a proposed academic boycott of Israeli universities and scholars; and a proposed boycott of Israeli cultural institutions or Israeli sport venues. Many advocates of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) campaign, including Archbishop Desmond Tutu use the 1980s movement against South African apartheid as a model.\n\nDisinvestment from Israel is a campaign conducted by religious and political entities which aims to use disinvestment to pressure the government of Israel to put \"an end to the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories captured during the 1967 military campaign.\" The disinvestment campaign is related to other economic and political boycotts of Israel. A notable campaign was initiated in 2002 and endorsed by South African bishop Desmond Tutu. Tutu said that the campaign against Israel's occupation of the Palestinian territories and its continued settlement expansion should be modeled on the successful, but controversial, disinvestment campaign previously imposed against South Africa's apartheid system.\n\n"}
{"id": "53145117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53145117", "title": "Department of Antiquities (Jordan)", "text": "Department of Antiquities (Jordan)\n\nThe Department of Antiquities is a government department in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan with responsibility for archaeological research and cultural heritage management. It is part of the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities.\n\nThe department was established in 1923 in what was then the Emirate of Transjordan, a protectorate of the British Empire. Its responsibilities are legislated for in laws no. 24 of 1934, no. 21 of 1988 and no. 22 of 2004.\n\nThe department has published an academic journal, the \"Annual of the Department of Antiquities of Jordan\", since 1951, and has organised an international conference on the history and archaeology of Jordan every three years since 1980. It also maintains a comprehensive public geographic information system and database of archaeological sites in the country, developed in cooperation with the Getty Conservation Institute, the Middle Eastern Geodatabase for Antiquities – Jordan (MEGA-J).\n\nThe department is headed by a Director General. There have been 18 holders of the post since the first, Ridha Tawfiq, was appointed in 1923:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27093965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27093965", "title": "Friend of History Award", "text": "Friend of History Award\n\nThe Friend of History Award is an award given by the Organization of American Historians. It \"recognizes an individual, who is not a professional historian, or an institution or organization for outstanding support for the pursuit of historical research, for the public presentation of history, or for the work of the OAH.\"\n\nSource: Organization of American Historians\n\n"}
{"id": "24720226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24720226", "title": "Gorka Aulestia Txakartegi", "text": "Gorka Aulestia Txakartegi\n\nGorka Aulestia Txakartegi (born Ondarroa, Biscay, Spain on 11 December 1932) is Spanish Basque literary historian and lexicographer.\n\nTxakartegi grew up hearing Biscayan and Gipuzkoan dialects of the Basque language, fully embracing Batua, the unified standard dialect, once it become codified. As a young man he studied philosophy and theology, hoping to be ordained as a priest. Instead, he received a degee in social economy from the University of Deusto in Bilbao. Later he migrated to the United States, where he received his M.A. in French and Spanish literature, and finally his Ph.D. in Basque Studies in 1987 at the University of Nevada, Reno, with the thesis \"El bertsolarismo: literatura oral improvisada en el País Vasco.\"\n\nHe served as the Basque language editor at the Basque Studies Program at the University of Nevada (Reno, USA) between 1976 and 1979. In the period 1980 - 1988 he acted as a lexicographer and an instructor in the Basque Studies Program, and the following year he finally became an assistant professor. From 1989 until 2000, when he retired, he taught literature in the Basque EUTG center (San Sebastián) at the University of Deusto. He is a corresponding member of the Euskaltzaindia since 1996, member of the committee on Basque literature.\n\nHe wrote 10 books, 91 articles, and numerous other publications such as conference papers and book reviews. He wrote the following books:\n\nHe wrote book reviews for the publications such as \"World Literature Today\", \"Basque Artistic Expression\" (Society of Basque Studies in America) and \"Journal of the Dictionary Society of North America\", as well as articles such as \"Bernard Etxepare, Medieval or Renaissance Writer?\" or \"Survey of French Basque Literature in the 20th Century\".\n\nSince 2002 he was preparing a dictionary of Basque literature, a project sponsored by Euskaltzaindia, in which he had worked for ten years.\n\n"}
{"id": "698982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=698982", "title": "Gründerzeit", "text": "Gründerzeit\n\nThese years in Central Europe were a time that citizens increasingly influenced cultural development. This was also the epoch of classical liberalism, even if the political demands of the time were only partially met, and then only in the later period. Industrialisation also posed aesthetic challenges, above all in the fields of architecture and craftsmanship, through development of existing forms, rather than innovation as such.\n\nIn common parlance the term \"\" is often mingled with Historicism, which was the predominant architectural style after 1850 until 1914, leading to a blurring of the terms. In historical context different decades are often also called \"Gründerzeit\". For this reason, the term \"Gründerzeit\" is used to refer to several periods; for example 1850–1873, 1871–1890, sometimes 1850–1914 in reference to the architecture, or just 1871–1873.\n\nThe German term \"\" refers to the great economic upswing in the mid-19th century, when the founders of business (\"entrepreneurs, \") could apparently become rich overnight. Of particular importance for speedy economic development was the rise of a developed railway system. Not only was it a major factor in its own right on the business scene of the time, but it also permitted further development through improved communication and migration. Rural migration to the cities assisted the development of a proletariat, with an attendant increase in social problems.\n\nThe stock market crash of 1873, combined with economic overheating due to enormous French reparations from the war, put an abrupt end to this upswing, referred to in German as the founders’ crisis (\"\"), resulting in a twenty-year period of economic stagnation. This crisis caused the theory of economic liberalism to lose ground, and it was also this time which saw the introduction of business control mechanisms, as well as protective customs tariffs.\n\nThe Vienna stock market crash led to the Panic of 1873 in the United States, resulting in the Long Depression.\n\nThe need for housing rose in consequence of industrialisation. Complete housing developments in the so-called Founding Epoch Architecture style arose in previously green fields, and even today in Central European cities large numbers of buildings from this time can be found together along one single road or even in complete districts. These 4- to 6-story buildings, often constructed by private property developers, often sported richly decorated façades in the form of Historicism such as Gothic Revival, Renaissance Revival, German Renaissance and Baroque Revival. Not only magnificent palaces for nouveau-riche citizens were built, but also infamous rental housing for the expanding urban lower classes.\n\nThis phase was also important for the integration of new technologies in architecture and design. A determining factor was the development of the Bessemer process in steel production, which made possible the construction of steel façades. A classical example of this new form is the steel and glass construction of the Crystal Palace, completed in 1851, which was revolutionary for the time and an inspiration to subsequent decades.\n\nIn Austria the Gründerzeit began after 1840 with the industrialisation of Vienna, as well as the regions of Bohemia and Moravia. Liberalism reached its zenith in Austria in 1867 during the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and remained dominant until the mid-1870s.\n\nVienna, the capital and residence of Emperor Franz Joseph, after the failed uprising of 1848, became the fourth largest city in the world with the inclusion of suburbs and an influx of new residents from regions of Austria. In the place where the city wall had once stood, a ring road was built, and ambitious civic buildings—including the Opera House, Town Hall, and Parliament—were constructed. In contrast to agricultural workers and urban labourers, an increasingly wealthy upper-middle class built itself monuments and mansions. This occurred on a smaller scale in cities such as Graz, but on the periphery, thereby preserving the old city from destructive redevelopment.\n\nIn the mindset of many Germans, the epoch is intrinsically linked with Kaiser Wilhelm I and Chancellor Bismarck, but it did not end with them (in 1888/1890) but continued well into the reign of Kaiser Wilhelm II. It was a Golden Age for Germany in which the disasters of the Thirty Years' War and the Napoleonic Wars were remedied, and the country competed internationally on a world-class level in the domains of science, technology, industry and commerce. This was the time when particularly the German middle class rapidly increased their standard of living, buying modern furniture, kitchen fittings and household machines.\n\nThe social effects of Industrialization were the same as in other European nations: Increased agricultural efficiency and introduction of new agricultural machines led to a polarized distribution of income in the countryside. The landowners won out to the disadvantage of the agrarian unpropertied workforce. Emigration, most of all to America, and urbanization were a consequence.\n\nIn the rapidly growing industrial cities, new workers' dwellings were erected, lacking in comfort by today's standards but also criticized as unhealthy by physicians of the time: \"without light, air and sun\", quite contrary to the then prevailing ideas on town planning. The dark, cramped flats took a large part of the blame for the marked increase in tuberculosis, which spread also to wealthier neighborhoods.\n\nNevertheless, the working class also saw improvements of living standards and other conditions, such as social security through laws on workers' health insurance and accident insurance introduced by Bismarck in 1883/1884, and in the long run also through the foundation of a Social Democracy that would remain the model for the European sister parties until Hitler's \"Machtübernahme\" in 1933. Even today the model of social care developed by Bismarck in 1873 () remains the contractual basis for health insurance in Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "31530323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31530323", "title": "History of Bashkortostan", "text": "History of Bashkortostan\n\nThe history of Bashkortostan or Bashkiria covers the region in and around the Southern Urals, historically inhabited by Bashkirs. The region has been known by several names, including \"al-Bashgird\", \"Bashgirdia\", \"Bascardia\", \"Fiyafi Bashqyrt\" (The Bashqyrt steppes), \"Pascatir\" and similar variants. As with previous names, the modern federal subject of Bashkortostan was named after the native Bashkir people.\n\nThe first settlements in the territory of modern Bashkortostan were set up in the early Paleolithic period. Major expansion, however, occurred during the Bronze Age with the arrival of people from the Abashevo culture. They possessed skills in manufacturing bronze tools, weapons and decorations and they were the first to establish permanent settlements in the region.\n\nThe ethnonym \"Bashkirs\" first became known in the 7th century. According to Ibn Ruste, the Bashkirs were \"an independent people, occupying territories on both sides of the Ural mountain ridge between Volga, Kama, Tobol and upstream of Yaik river\".\n\nThe earliest source to give a geographical description of the territory is Mahmud al-Kashgari's \"Divanu Lugat’it Turk\" (1072–1074) which includes a map with a charted region called \"Fiyafi Bashqyrt\" (The Bashkir Steppes). Despite a lack of much geographic detail, the sketch map does indicate that the Bashkirs inhabited a territory bordering on the Caspian Sea and the Volga valley in the West, the Ural Mountains in the North-West, and the Irtysh valley in the East, thus giving a rough estimate of the area. Even earlier, in the 10th century, Ahmad ibn Fadlan mentions \"the country \"al-Bashgird\"\" in his itinerary and enumerates the rivers he had to cross during his trip.\n\nNo reliable data exists attesting to early Bashkir statehood in the Southern Urals.\n\nHowever, works by ibn Fadlan, Giovanni del Carpine, William of Rubruck, as well as Bashkir epic poetry and genealogies (\"shejere\") suggest that an independent local governance had existed in the region before the 13th century.\n\nWhen talking about this period, Sergei Rudenko cites Abu Zayd al-Balkhi to state that the western parts of Bashkiria were part of and administered by Volga Bulgaria. Z.I. Enikeev references R.G. Kuzeev and states that \"...The Bashkirs of the tribes \"bülär, yänäy, meñ\" and \"äyle\" wrote in their genealogies that the Bulgar khans \"Aidar, Säit, Ämir, Sälim, Ilham\" and \"Ğabdulla\" were their rulers. Z.I. Enikeev also relies upon another work by R.G. Kuzeev to maintain that Tabyn Khanate, a strong Bashkir nationstate had existed within Dasht-i Qipchaq, the confederation of Turkic states, before the Mongol invasion.\n\nThe Hungarian monk Julian indicates in his itinerary that Bashkirs had their own ruler (\"khan\") in 1235-1236.\n\nIslam was introduced to the Baskirs by the Volga Bulgars, who had adopted Islam in the 10th century.\n\nOne of the earliest remnants of the introduction of Islam is the historical site near Chishmy, Chishminsky District. The site contains a rock with an Arabic inscription saying that Husein-bek, the son of Izmer-bek, resides at the location, who died on the 7th day of the month Muharram in year 444 of Hijra, i.e. 1066 AD.\n\nEvidence also exists that Islam came to the Southern Urals from Middle Asia. For example, the 13th century burial site of two Muslim missionaries is preserved in the Bashkir Trans-Uralia, near the village of Starobairamgulovo, Uchalinsky District.\n\nIn the 13th century, Historical Bashkortostan fell under the influence of the Mongol Empire. Some sources, including G.Carpine and I.Rudenko, report that Bashkortostan was conquered by Mongols after the fall of Volga Bulgaria. I. Rudenko believes Volga Bulgaria was conquered by Mongols in 1229, while in 1236 \"...the entire Bashkiria was conquered...\" Lev Gumilev says, perhaps using Friar Julian’s report as his source, that \"the war between Mongols and Bashkirs continued for 14 years... The Bashkirs won multiple battles and, after all, concluded a treaty of friendship and cooperation, after which the Mongols forged an alliance with the Bashkirs for further conquests...\". In his opinion, this happened in 1220-1223.\n\nIn Z.I. Enikeev’s view, these two statements do not conflict each other. Those Bashkir tribes which were previously controlled by Volga Bulgaria, had to declare themselves dependents of the Mongol Empire after the fall of Bilär. However, the bulk of the Bashkir tribes, headed at that time by Muyten-biy, voluntarily entered the Mongol Empire.\n\nThe authors of the \"History of Bashkortostan\" maintain that the Bashkirs entered the Mongol State in 1207 or 1208, suggesting that \"the entrance was both promoted by coercion and, at the same time, a voluntary act of recognition\". In this respect, it is important to cite German Fedorov-Davydov’s opinion, who was an outstanding historian of the Golden Horde. When speaking of the fact that the Bashkirs had their own khan ruling over them, he pointed out that this was a special privilege granted to the Bashkirs as they willfully accepted the Mongol rule; normally, the Mongols would never keep alive the former rulers of the nations they conquered by force.\n\nThe very fact that the Bashkirs, as an individual nation, survived while the Mongols exterminated many other peoples who had lived in the adjacency, suggests that special relations existed between the conquerors and the medieval Bashkirs.\n\nBy 1294, though, the Mongol Empire had fractured, leaving the Bashkirs under the authority of the Golden Horde, one of the Mongol successor states.\n\nAfter the Golden Horde, too, had broken apart, the territory of modern Bashkortostan was divided between the khanates of Kazan and Sibir and the Nogai Horde.\n\nAfter Kazan fell to Ivan IV in October 1552, the Bashkirs joined the Russian Empire. Whether this was voluntary or the result of conquest is still debated.\n\nAccording to one version, after Ivan's victory over Kazan, the Russian government appealed to the peoples of the khanate, including the western Bashkirs who had been subjects of the Kazan Khanate, to become subjects of the Russian tsar. The neighboring Nogai Horde at that time was stricken with internecine dissention, unrest and famine. Most its population had migrated to the southern steppes and abandoned their camps; however, the danger of Nogai raids remained. The western Bashkirs became subjects of the Russian empire, and received credentials from the tsar confirming their patrimonial rights to their traditional lands as well as to the abandoned Nogai camps.\nAs attested in the Bashkir legends, the negotiations with the Russian government’s representatives were preceded by Bashkir nationwide meetings at which the annexation terms and conditions were discussed, alongside with who should be sent to \"the White Padishah\" as Bashkir delegates.\n\nPatents were received from the Russian government which provided detailed description of the annexation terms, defined the land allotments and the taxes; the received patents were then again discussed at nationwide assemblies.\n\nThe annexation negotiations were expedited by the fact that Kalmucks and later Kazakhs began laying claims on the Bashkirs’ lands. In 1555–[1557], Bashkir councils in central and southern Bashkortostan sent their delegations to Kazan asking the Russian tsar to take them under his protection and patronage. The Bashkir \"shejere\" kept the names of the four \"biys\" (noblemen) who traveled to Kazan for negotiations: \"Tatagach-biy\" (the tribe of \"Yurmaty\"), \"Buranqul-biy\" (the tribe of \"Burzyan\"), \"Krakujak-biy\" (the tribe of \"Qypchaq\"), and \"Qanzafar-biy\" (the tribe of \"Meñ\").\n\nThe negotiations between the Bashkir noblemen and the Russian tsar's representatives are also attested in the Russian chronicles and testimonies left by the contemporaries. By accepting the Russian citizenship, the Bashkirs confirmed their patrimonial rights to the land, and ensured protection from the Nogay trespassers.\n\nMeanwhile, an alternative viewpoint exists, primarily in Western historiography, which maintains that Bashkortostan never joined the Russian Empire of its own volition, but was conquered.\n\nThis viewpoint is spearheaded by the American historian Alton S. Donnelly, who analysed the factors of Bashkir’s joining the Russian Empire and concluded that Bashkortostan was in fact conquered by the Russians and converted into Russia’s internal colony. Donnelly studied tsarist policy adopted after the Bashkirs entered the Russian Empire, and emphasised the fact that the Bashkir rebellion (1662–64) and Bashkir Uprising (1704–11) were primarily caused by the Russian government’s violations of the terms and conditions previously agreed between the Bashkirs and the Russian authorities. From this, Alton Donelly concludes that Russia pursued an \"imperialistic\" policy in the newly joined Bashkortostan and included a consistent infringement of the Bashkirs’ interests.\n\nRussian historians also state that the Bashkir riots were primarily caused by the fact that the Russian government violated the conditions under which Bashkortostan joined the Russian Empire. However, they maintain that this fact cannot give ground to re-evaluations of the accession’s circumstances: its free-will basis is attested by both Russian and Bashkir historical sources.\n\nStarting from the second half of the 16th century, Bashkiria's territory began taking shape as a part of the Russian state. In 1798 the Spiritual Assembly of Russian Muslims was established; an indication that the imperial government recognised the rights of Bashkirs, Tatars, and other Muslim nations to profess Islam and perform religious rituals. Ufa Governorate, centred at Ufa, was formed in 1865: another step towards territorial identification.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution, the Bashkir Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (ASSR) was established, firstly as Little Bashkortostan, but eventually all of Ufa Governorate was incorporated into the newly established republic. During the Soviet period, Bashkiria was granted broad autonomous rights- the first among other Russian regions. The administrative structure of the Bashkir ASSR was based on principles similar to those of other autonomous republics of Russia.\n\nThe extraction of crude oil in Bashkiria began in 1932. At the end of 1943, large crude oil deposits were discovered. During World War II, Bashkiria became one of the major regions of the Soviet Union to accommodate plants and factories evacuated from Western Russia, as well as great masses of people, as well as providing the country with weaponry, fuel, and foodstuffs. After the war, a good number of industries were further developed there, such as mining, machine construction and, especially, oil-refining. Bashkiria's industry became a solid base for the further economic growth of all European outlying territories of Russia.\n\nOn October 11, 1990 the Supreme Soviet of the Republic adopted the Declaration on State Sovereignty of the Bashkir ASSR. On February 25, 1992 the Bashkir ASSR was renamed the Republic of Bashkortostan.\n\nOn March 31, 1992 a Federative Compact \"On separation of authorities and powers among federal organs of power of the Russian Federation and the organs of power of the Republic of Bashkortostan\" was signed. On August 3, 1994 a Compact \"On separation of authorities and mutual delegating of powers among the organs of power of the Russian Federation and the organs of power of the Republic of Bashkortostan\" was signed.\n"}
{"id": "27020037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27020037", "title": "History of ethics", "text": "History of ethics\n\nEthics is the branch of philosophy that examines right and wrong moral behavior, moral concepts (such as justice, virtue, duty) and moral language. Various ethical theories pose various answers to the question \"What is the greatest good?\" and elaborate a complete set of proper behaviors for individuals and groups. Ethical theories are closely related to forms of life in various social orders.\n\nThe epic poems that stand at the beginning of many world literatures, such as the Mesopotamian Epic of Gilgamesh, Homer's Iliad and the Icelandic Eddas, portray a set of values that suit the strong leader of a small tribe. Valour and success are the principal qualities of a hero, and are generally not constrained by moral considerations. Revenge and vendetta are appropriate activities for heroes. The gods that appear in such epics are not defenders of moral values but are capricious forces of nature, and are to be feared and propitiated.\n\nMore strictly ethical claims are found occasionally in the literature of ancient civilizations that is aimed at lower classes of society. The Sumerian Farmer's Almanac and the Egyptian Instruction of Amenhotep both advise farmers to leave some grain for poor gleaners, and promise favours from the gods for doing so. A number of ancient religions and ethical thinkers also put forward some version of the golden rule, at least in its negative version: do not do to others what you do not want done to yourself.\n\nSince the origin of Ethical Monotheism in (Hebrew) Judaism, something Greek-sounding like \"ethics\" may be said to have been originated in Judaism's up to four thousand years old passed down traditions and instructions of the Torahs (Hebrew: , \"toroth\"; plural of Torah), Oral, Written, and Mystical.\n\nSocrates, as portrayed in Plato's \"Republic\", articulates the greatest good as the transcendent \"form of good itself\". The good, Socrates says, is like the sun. The sun gives light and life to the earth, the good gives knowledge and virtue to the intelligible world. It is the cause of goodness in people and actions, and it also is the cause of existence and knowledge. The pursuit of and love of the good itself (rather than any particular good thing) Socrates thought was the chief aim of education and (especially) of philosophy.\n\nIn his personal life, Socrates lived extremely morally. He was chaste, disciplined, pious, responsible, and cared for his friends In Gorgias he defends the notion that it is better to suffer injustice than to do it. The Greeks found this paradoxical, but Socrates both argued and lived this philosophy consistently. That is because the doing of evil damages the soul, which is the highest part of humans. In the Republic, Socrates is challenged to defend the view that we have reasons to be moral that do not come from rational self-interest, in response to Glaucon's arguments in Book 2. The Republic develops the view that being a good person in an ethical sense involves achieving internal harmony of the parts of the soul. However, Plato's ethical ideal, as expressed in the Republic, still has much in common with the Homeric conception of the leader of a tribe or city: the successful running of the city and the internal harmony of the citizen who runs it is the main ethical aim, and there is little mention in Plato of any strictly moral obligations the ruler may be under.\n\nAristotle's ethics builds upon Plato's with important variations. Aristotle's highest good was not the good itself but goodness embodied in a flourishing human life. His ethics are based on \"eudaimonia\", variously translated as \"happiness,\" \"prosperity,\" \"flourishing,\" or \"success.\" A \"great-souled\" citizen who lives a life of virtue can expect to achieve \"eudaimonia\", which Aristotle argues is the highest good for man. Following Plato, Aristotle gives a significant role in moral life the virtues, fixed habits of behavior that lead to good outcomes; the main virtues are courage, justice, prudence and temperance. The highest form of life is, however, purely intellectual activity.\n\nLater Greek schools of philosophy, such as the Epicureans and Stoics, debated the conditions of the good life. Epicurus taught that the greatest good was pleasure and freedom from pain. The Epicureans emphasized the quiet enjoyment of pleasures, especially mental pleasure, free of fear and anxiety. The Stoics thought the greatest good not pleasure but reason and everything in accord with reason, even if painful. Hence they praised the life of reason lived in accordance with nature.\n\nA theme of Ancient Greek ethics then is the role of the virtuous life in achieving eudaimonia, or the good life; and Aristotle, Epicurus and the Stoics all argued that virtue was necessary for happiness, albeit in different ways and with different conceptions of those terms.\n\nA passage of the Torah, \"Love your neighbour as yourself\" was taken up by the writers of the New Testament and made part of the theological centerpiece of Christian ethical stance. In the New Testament Jesus teaches that all the commandments of Jewish religious law could be summarized in the two rules, \"Love God and love your neighbour\" (Mark 12:28-31). This is illustrated with the Parable of the Good Samaritan, which praises action to help any human in need.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, Thomas Aquinas developed a synthesis of Biblical and Aristotelian ethics called natural law theory, according to which the nature of humans determines what is right and wrong. For example, murder is wrong because life is essential to humans so depriving someone of it is inherently an evil. Education is needed for humans, and is their right, because their intellectual nature requires developing. Natural law theory remains at the heart of Catholic moral teaching, for example in its positions on contraception and other controversial moral issues.\n\nThe Catholic practice of compulsory confession led to the development of manuals of casuistry, the application of ethical principles to detailed cases of conscience, such as the conditions of a just war.\n\nImmanuel Kant, in the 18th century, argued that right and wrong are founded on duty, which issues a Categorical Imperative to us, a command that, of its nature, ought to be obeyed. An action is only truly moral if done from a sense of duty, and the most valuable thing is a human will that has decided to act rightly. To decide what duty requires, Kant proposes the principle of universalizability: correct moral rules are those everyone could adopt.\n\nKant's philosophy marks a number of important conceptual shifts in philosophical thinking about ethics. Kant argues that questions about happiness should not be a focus in ethical thought, because ethics should be universal while happiness may involve very different modes of life for different individuals. He also believed this approach was necessary if an ethical theory was to avoid becoming 'heteronomous'; that is, locating the source of proper moral motivation outside of properly moral concerns.\n\nIn 19th century Britain, Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill advocated utilitarianism, the view that right actions are those that are likely to result in the greatest happiness of the greatest number. Utilitarianism remains popular in the twenty-first century.\n\nBoth Kantianism and Utilitarianism provide ethical theories that can support contemporary liberal political developments, and associated enlightenment ways of conceiving of the individual.\n\nThe early twentieth century saw many debates on metaethics, that is, philosophical theory on the nature of ethics. Views ranged from moral realism, which holds that moral truths are about mind-independent realities, to evolutionary ethics, which believes ethical practices are merely evolved ways of behavior that led to evolutionary success, to the error theory of J. L. Mackie, which held that the entire notion of ethical obligation is a mistake.\n\nReflections on the Holocaust, such as those of Hannah Arendt, led to a deepening appreciation of the reality of extreme evil. Also in reaction to the Holocaust, rights theories, as expressed for example in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, asserted the inalienable moral rights of humans to life, education, and other basic goods. Another response to the atrocities of World War II included existential reflections on the meaning of life, leading to approaches to ethics based on \"the situation\" and personal interaction.\n\nThe 1970s saw the revival of casuistry in the form of applied ethics, the consideration of detailed practical cases in bioethics, business ethics, environmental ethics and other such special fields. The development of new medical technologies such as IVF and stem cell research produced many new issues requiring ethical debate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839448", "title": "Jacek Jędruch", "text": "Jacek Jędruch\n\nJacek Jędruch (Warsaw, Poland, 1927 – Athens, Greece, 1995) was a Polish-American nuclear engineer and historian of Polish representative government.\n\nDuring World War II, Jędruch participated in the Polish Resistance movement. After the war, he escaped communist security forces by making his way to the West. He traveled to England and from there emigrated to the United States.\n\nHe earned degrees from Northwestern University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a Ph.D. from Pennsylvania State University.\n\nWhile his vocation was nuclear technology, his avocation was the study of representative governments, the evolution of government policy in relation to public needs, and political developments in Central Europe. This combination of interests prompted him to write a guide to Polish parliamentary history (first edition 1982, second edition 1997).\n\nHe was at work on the second edition when in March 1995, while traveling in Greece with his wife Ewa, a chemical engineer, he suffered a fatal accident at the Acropolis in Athens. Working from Jędruch's notes, his wife Ewa completed the second edition of his book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25009651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25009651", "title": "Jerzy Eisler", "text": "Jerzy Eisler\n\nProf. dr hab. Jerzy Krzysztof Eisler (born 12 June 1952 in Warsaw) is a Polish historian, focusing mostly on the history of Poland during the communist era. He is a professor at the History Institute of the Polish Academy of Sciences, and member of the Institute of National Remembrance in Warsaw. In 1994-97 he was a principal of Adam Mickiewicz Polish school in Paris. Eisler gained a title of professor in 2002 and was awarded the Silver Cross of Merit medal in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31931545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31931545", "title": "Julián Casanova Ruiz", "text": "Julián Casanova Ruiz\n\nJulián Casanova Ruiz (born 1956 in Valdealgorfa) is a Spanish historian. He teaches contemporary history at University of Zaragoza, and has been a visiting professor in US, UK and Latin America universities as well as a recurring visiting professor at Hungary's Central European University. He's a columnist for \"El País\" and frequent talk show guest at radio station \"Onda Cero\".\n\nIn 2008 he was nominated among the experts in the first judicial investigation (conducted by judge Baltasar Garzón) against the Francoism crimes.\n"}
{"id": "30996329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30996329", "title": "King of Burlesque", "text": "King of Burlesque\n\nKing of Burlesque is a 1936 musical film about a former burlesque producer played by Warner Baxter who moves into a legitimate theatre and does very well, until he marries a socialite. Sammy Lee received an Academy Award nomination for the now dead category of Best Dance Direction at the 8th Academy Awards. Today the film is best known for Fats Waller's fabulous rendition of \"I've Got My Fingers Crossed\".\n\nThe film was remade in 1943 as \"Hello Frisco, Hello\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31253510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31253510", "title": "Lawrence W. Levine Award", "text": "Lawrence W. Levine Award\n\nThe Lawrence W. Levine Award is an annual book award made by the Organization of American Historians (OAH). The award goes to the best book in American cultural history. The award is named for Professor Lawrence W. Levine, President of the OAH 1992-1993, who wrote extensively in the field. A committee of 5 members of the OAH, chosen annually by the President, makes the award. The winner receives $1000.\n\nSource: Organization of American Historians\n"}
{"id": "30166032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30166032", "title": "Luxembourg City History Museum", "text": "Luxembourg City History Museum\n\nThe Luxembourg City History Museum, , illustrates the thousand-year history of the City of Luxembourg with both permanent and temporary exhibits. Founded on 22 June 1996, it was designed by Luxembourg architect Conny Lentz and \"Repérages\", Paris.\n\nLike the city itself, the museum successfully combines ancient architecture with modern extensions. It is housed in four restored houses from the 17th to the 19th century which still bear archeological traces from the Middle Ages. Examples of how to combine old buildings with the expectations of museum visitors are the floating glass façade and the panoramic lift which offers extensive views of all floors. The huge glass cage of the lift gives up to 65 people views of the rock foundations on the lower levels as well as views of the city's Grund district and Rham plateau on the upper levels, revealing the stages of Luxembourg's history over the centuries. Also of interest are the ancient, vaulted cellars which were discovered during excavation work in the early 1990s.\n\nThe floors below the street level entrance house a permanent collection illustrating the town's architectural and urban development while the upper floors are reserved for temporary exhibitions. A multimedia system extending throughout the building documents the history of the town including its cultural, political and social development. It provides access to some ten thousand documents and almost sixty audio-visual sequences.\n\nThe museum is located on the \"rue du Saint-Esprit\" in the old town. It is open to the public every day except Monday from 10 am to 6 pm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3395206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3395206", "title": "Michael Baigent", "text": "Michael Baigent\n\nMichael Baigent (born Michael Barry Meehan, 27 February 1948 – 17 June 2013) was an author and speculative theorist who co-wrote a number of books that question mainstream perceptions of history and the life of Jesus. He is best known as co-writer of the book \"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\".\n\nBaigent was born in 1948 in Nelson, New Zealand and grew up in the nearby communities of Motueka and Wakefield. His upbringing was Catholic, and he attended church three times a week, as well as being tutored in Catholic theology from the age of five years. His father left the family when he was eight years old and with his mother Jean, Baigent went to live with his maternal grandfather, Lewis Baigent, a sawmill owner, and took his surname. His great-grandfather, Henry Baigent, had founded a forestry firm, \"H. Baigent and Sons\".\n\nHis secondary schooling was at Nelson College, and then he moved on to the University of Canterbury, Christchurch, initially intending to study science and continue in the family career of forestry, but then switched to studying comparative religion and philosophy, studying Buddhism, Hinduism and Christianity. He travelled to Australia and Southeast Asia, occasionally living on the street. He then returned to Auckland, receiving a BA in Psychology.\n\nBaigent worked briefly at the BBC photographic department, and worked night shifts at a soft-drink factory. Later in life, Baigent earned an MA in Mysticism and Religious Experience at the University of Kent.\n\nA Freemason and a Grand Officer of the United Grand Lodge of England, he was editor of \"Freemasonry Today\" from April 2001 (deputy editor Matthew Scanlan), which he used as a platform for a more liberal approach to Freemasonry. He was a trustee of the Canonbury Masonic Research Centre.\n\nBaigent lived in Bath with his wife, Jane, with whom he had two daughters, Isabelle and Tansy. He died from a brain haemorrhage in Brighton in 2013.\n\nIn 1976, Baigent moved to the UK, where he met Richard Leigh, the man who was to be his roommate and frequent co-author. Leigh introduced him to the alleged mystery of Rennes-le-Château in France, and Baigent launched into research on the matter. In the same decade, Leigh introduced him to Henry Lincoln, a British television scriptwriter, while Lincoln was lecturing at a summer school. The three discovered that they shared an interest in the Knights Templar, and took their Jesus bloodline theory on the road during the 1970s, in a series of lectures which later developed into the 1982 book, \"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\".\n\nPublished on 18 January 1982, \"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\" popularised the hypothesis that the true nature of the quest for the Holy Grail was that Jesus and Mary Magdalene had a child together, the first of a bloodline which later married into a Frankish royal dynasty, the Merovingians, and was all tied together by a society known as the Priory of Sion. These ideas were later used as a basis for Dan Brown's international bestselling novel \"The Da Vinci Code\".\n\nThe theory that Jesus and Mary were in a carnal (physical) relationship is based on Baigent's interpretation of the Holy Kiss on the mouth (typically between males in early Christian times, thus signifying Mary's emancipation), and \"spiritual marriage\", as given in the Gospel of Philip. The theory was perpetuated by authors Laurence Gardner and Margaret Starbird.\n\nThe day after the publication the authors had a public clash on BBC television with the Bishop of Birmingham and Marina Warner. The book rapidly climbed the bestseller charts, and had a sequel, \"The Messianic Legacy\".\n\nThe book has been described as \"a work thoroughly debunked by scholars and critics alike\" and it was called \"one of the all-time great works of pop pseudohistory\" in a review in \"The New York Times Book Review\". Arthurian scholar Richard Barber has commented, \"It would take a book as long as the original to refute and dissect \"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\" point by point: it is essentially a text which proceeds by innuendo, not by refutable scholarly debate\".\n\nLater, he and Leigh co-authored several books, including \"The Dead Sea Scrolls Deception\" (1991) in which they primarily followed the controversial theories of Robert Eisenman concerning the interpretation of the Scrolls. This was discredited by Otto Betz and Rainer Riesner in their book \"Jesus, Qumran and The Vatican: Clarifications\" (1994).\n\nSome of the ideas presented in Baigent's earlier book \"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\", were incorporated in the bestselling American novel \"The Da Vinci Code\", by Dan Brown.\n\nIn \"The Da Vinci Code\", Dan Brown named the primary antagonist, a British Royal Historian, Knight of the Realm and Grail scholar, Sir Leigh Teabing, KBE, also known as the Teacher, in homage to the authors of \"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\". The name combines Richard Leigh's surname with 'Teabing', an anagram of Baigent.\n\nIn March 2006, Baigent and Leigh filed a lawsuit in a British court against Brown's publisher, Random House, claiming copyright infringement.\n\nConcurrent with the plagiarism trial, Baigent released a new book, \"The Jesus Papers\", amid criticism that it was just a reworking of themes from \"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\", and timed to capitalize on the marketing hype around the release of the movie \"The Da Vinci Code\", as well as the attention brought by the trial. In the postscript to the book (p. 355), Baigent points out that the release date had been set by Harper Collins long before.\n\nOn 7 April 2006, High Court judge Peter Smith rejected the copyright-infringement claim by Michael Baigent and Richard Leigh, and Dan Brown won the court case. On 28 March 2007, Baigent and Leigh lost their appeal against this decision and were faced with legal bills of about 3 million pounds.\n\nBaigent's interpretations of history sometimes attracted hostile criticisms from scholars and historians. For example, Bernard Hamilton, writing in the \"English Historical Review\" (Vol. 116, No. 466 (Apr., 2001), pp. 474–475) described Baigent's treatment of The Inquisition in his 1999 book of the same name (with Richard Leigh) as pursuing \"a very outdated and misleading account of this institution [the Inquisition]\". In a review in the \"Spectator\" magazine (8 January 2000), reviewer Piers Paul Read said the authors: \"show no interest in understanding the subtleties and paradoxes in the history of the Inquisition\".\n\nBaigent himself conceded that none of his theories yielded any positive results: \"I would like to think in due course a lot of this material will be proven,\" he said, \"but it’s just a hope of mine.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31169533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31169533", "title": "Michael Lort", "text": "Michael Lort\n\nMichael Lort (1725–1790) was a Welsh clergyman, academic and antiquary.\n\nThe descendant of a Pembrokeshire family living at Prickeston, he was eldest son of Roger Lort, major of the Royal Welsh Fusiliers, who married Anne, only child of Edward Jenkins, vicar of Fareham, Hampshire. His father died at Cambrai, 11 May 1745, aged 51, from wounds received at the battle of Fontenoy; his mother died in 1767, aged 69, and in 1778 he erected a monument to their memory, now on the east wall of the chapel of St. Ann in Tenby Church.\n\nHe entered Trinity College, Cambridge, on 13 June 1743, when he was described as aged 18 and as coming from Tenby school. William Cole adds that he was at Westminster School. His degrees at Cambridge were, B.A. 1746, M.A. 1750, B.D. 1761, and D.D. 1780. He was incorporated at Oxford 7 July 1759. His college offices were: scholar 20 April 1744, sub-fellow 2 Oct. 1749, full fellow 4 July 1750, senior fellow 1768, sublector primus 1753, Latin reader 1754, lector primarius 1755, and Greek reader 1756. On graduating in 1746, Lort acted as librarian to Richard Mead until 1754.\n\nHis preferments were numerous, but for many years not very lucrative. From 1759 to 1771 he held the post of Regius Professor of Greek at Cambridge, and in 1768 he applied for the professorship of modern history, when Thomas Gray was given the chair. In 1761 he was appointed chaplain to Richard Terrick, bishop of Peterborough, and about that date he served the vicarage of Bottisham, near Cambridge. From 1779 to 1783 he lived at Lambeth Palace as domestic chaplain to Archbishop Frederick Cornwallis. He was promoted to be librarian at Lambeth in 1785, and he is said to have been librarian to the Duke of Devonshire. In January 1771 he became rector of St. Matthew, Friday Street, London. On 11 April 1780 he was collated to the prebendal stall of Tottenhall in St. Paul's Cathedral (which caused him to vacate his fellowship at Trinity College on Lady day 1781); he obtained in 1789 the rectory of St. Michael, Mile End, adjoining Colchester; and Bishop Beilby Porteus gave him in April 1789 the sinecure rectory of Fulham.\n\nLort was elected Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries in 1755, remaining a vice-president until 1788, and became Fellow of the Royal Society in 1766. While driving down North Hill, Colchester, in August 1790, Lort was thrown out of his carriage, and he died from the effects of the accident at 6 Savile Row, London, 5 November 1790. He had married, in May 1783, Susannah Norfolk one of the two daughters of Alderman Norfolk of Cambridge. She died on 5 February 1792, aged 50, and was buried in the same vault with her husband in the church of Friday Street, a white marble tablet being placed on its north wall. On the demolition of the building the remains were removed in 1883 to the City of London cemetery at Ilford.\n\nHe published little, but helped others. He printed a couple of sermons (1760 and 1770), edited in 1769 \"A Projecte conteyning the State of Governmente of the University of Cambridge, in the 43d year of the raigne of Queen Elizabeth\", in 1785 had ‘a copy of the Alexandrian New Testament printed off on fine vellum,’ and in 1790 published \"A Short Commentary on the Lord's Prayer\", from which Granville Sharp in 1806 took the observations on the last two petitions as an appendix to his own work on that subject. John Carter the architect obtained his ‘first insight and encouragement’ from him.\n\nSome of his manuscript lives were used by Alexander Chalmers in his \"Biographical Dictionary\". James Granger obtained his aid in his portrait-dictionary, he assisted John Nichols in the \"Gentleman's Magazine\" and in other undertakings, and he contributed to \"Archæologia\". Letters to and from him and Cole, Thomas Percy, and Horace Walpole are in Nichols's \"Literary Anecdotes\", and \"Illustrations of Literary History\", and there are some letters and notes from him in Granger's \"Letters\".\n\nLort's English verses from the \"Gratulatio Academiæ Cantabrigiensis\", 1748, on the peace of Aix-la-Chapelle, are reprinted in Nichols's \"Collection of Poems\", and another English poem by him is in Thomas Zouch's \"Works\". The Greek verses in four collections of the University of Cambridge (1760–63) which bear Lort's name are reprinted in Zouch's \"Works\" (by whom it appears that they were written). His notes on the authorship of the \"Whole Duty of Man\" are in Nichols's \"Literary Anecdotes\", and his vindication of Horace Walpole with respect to Thomas Chatterton is in the \"Illustrations of Literary History\".\n\nHis books were sold from 5 April to 14 May 1791, and produced £1,269, and his prints, which were disposed of on 26 May and six following days, fetched £401.\n\n"}
{"id": "27946313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27946313", "title": "Mohammed al-Mahdi al-Fasi", "text": "Mohammed al-Mahdi al-Fasi\n\nMohammed al-Mahdi al-Fasi also known as Abu Isa Abu Abdallah Mohammed al-Mahdi ibn Ahmad ibn Ali ibn Yusuf al-Fihri al-Fasi was a well-known mystic, biographer and historian from Fes. He was born in Ksar al-Kebir on May 17, 1624 and died 20 February 1698. He was buried in the mausoleum of his great grandfather Abu l-Mahasin Yusuf al-Fasi.\n\nHe was the author of the following works on mysticism:\nMohammed al-Mahdi was particularly interested in the history of mysticism in Morocco since Mohammed al-Jazuli and his pupil al-Tabba up to the end of the 17th century. Parallel to that history he retraces the development of the Sadilite school and its affiliate founded by Ahmed Zarruq.\n\nAl-Mahdi wrote the following biographical works, on his great grandfather Abu l-Mahasin Yusuf al-Fasi:\n\nOn the traditions of the people of Fes he wrote:\n\n"}
{"id": "22722859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22722859", "title": "Murder of Ross Parker", "text": "Murder of Ross Parker\n\nRoss Andrew Parker (17 August 1984 – 21 September 2001), from Peterborough, England, was a 17-year-old\nWhite English male murdered in an unprovoked racially motivated crime. He bled to death after being stabbed, beaten with a hammer, and repeatedly kicked by a gang of British Pakistani youths. The incident occurred in Millfield, Peterborough, ten days after the September 11 attacks.\n\nIn December 2002, Shaied Nazir, Ahmed Ali Awan, and Sarfraz Ali were all, unanimously, found guilty of Parker's murder and sentenced to life imprisonment, each receiving minimum terms ranging from 16 to 18 years. A fourth defendant, Zairaff Mahrad, was cleared of murder and manslaughter.\n\nA memorial plaque for Parker is located in the Netherton area of Peterborough where a football match is played each year in his memory.\n\nRoss Parker was born in Peterborough in 1984 to Davinia and Tony Parker. His mother worked as a waitress and his father ran a car bodywork repair business; he was one of two children. Parker was an avid football player and, having completed a GNVQ in business studies at Jack Hunt School, hoped to join the police force when he was 18. He was nicknamed \"Half-Pint\" owing to his 5-foot, 5-inch height and had twice broken his leg previously. Parker lived in the Westwood area of the city and worked part-time as bar support at The Solstice, a local public house where he had met his girlfriend, Nicola Toms.\n\nParker was murdered shortly after 1:15 a.m. on Friday 21 September 2001 while walking with his girlfriend. The attack took place on a cycle path alongside Bourges Boulevard in Millfield, Peterborough, near to Russell Street. Racial tensions in the area were high as the September 11 attacks had only occurred ten days earlier.\n\nHaving finished work early, Parker and Toms were walking to visit her friend's house when they were confronted by a gang of around ten Pakistani youths, some of whom were wearing balaclavas; the 2002 trial judge concluded that they had planned to find \"a white male to attack simply because he was white\" in the context of \"hostility on the part of some of the younger white residents of the city against the Asian community\". They warned Parker he had \"better start running\", but then blocked his path and quickly sprayed him in the face with CS gas. He was punched in the stomach then stabbed three times from behind through the throat and chest with a foot-long hunting knife. The knife penetrated completely through his body on two occasions and as he was lying on the ground he was repeatedly kicked and struck with a panel beater's hammer.\n\nToms ran to a nearby petrol station for help and a man there gave her his mobile phone to call the police. While making the call, she twice heard Parker cry out in pain. By chance she spotted a passing police car. She entered the car and guided the officer to the scene of the assault. Although Toms had only been away for a few minutes, by the time she returned Parker had already bled to death and the gang had disappeared.\n\nAfter the murder, four of the gang returned to a garage which they used as their headquarters. Ahmed Ali Awan, brandishing the bloodied knife, exclaimed \"cherish the blood\". The police informed Parker's family of his death at 4:30 am; his body remained at the scene during the day while an investigation was conducted. A post-mortem revealed Parker had died as a result of stab wounds inflicted by a bladed instrument.\n\nParker's murder sparked what became one of the biggest police inquiries in the history of Peterborough. During the weekend following the attack, twelve suspects of Pakistani descent were arrested on suspicion of murder. Members of the local community posted a £1,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the killers, later increasing to £1,500. A number of those arrested were recorded chanting \"Taliban, Osama bin Laden\" in their cells and while being transported in the police van, which they also vandalised. Detective Chief Inspector Dick Harrison, who was overseeing the case, praised the city's Muslim community for their involvement in capturing the murderers.\n\nOn 26 September 2001, Sarfraz Ali, Ahmed Ali Awan and Shaied Nazir appeared in court charged with Parker's murder. Zairaff Mahrad was charged the following day. However, by March 2002 all four defendants had been controversially released on police bail. Parker's sister, Leanne, stated \"we can't begin to comprehend why they've been allowed out of prison at this stage\". Parker's family were so concerned about the decision that they wrote a letter of complaint to the Home Secretary, David Blunkett. The Home Office refused to comment on the case and the men remained free on bail.\n\nOn 7 November 2002, Awan, Nazir, Ali and Mahrad all of Millfield, Peterborough, stood trial for Parker's murder at Northampton Crown Court, pleading not guilty.\n\nAwan, 22, ran a recruitment company and had previously attended the city's Deacon's School. He was an unofficial police informer and the court was told he thought of himself as a gangster and had a \"fantasy for knives\". Nazir, 22, was close friends with Awan. He was married in Kashmir the month prior to the murder and had a son. He was educated at Bretton Woods School, had worked in a factory and later in a takeaway restaurant with Mahrad, whom he had known since childhood. Ali, 25, had also attended Bretton Woods School and was also married, though his wife left him during the trial. He was given a reference at the trial by the Deputy Mayor of Peterborough, Raja Akhtar. and Labour Party councillor Mohammed Choudhary, with Akhtar stating he had \"known him to be caring and responsible\". Mahrad, 21, owned a takeaway restaurant business in King's Lynn.\n\nDuring the six-week trial, transcripts of covert police recordings of the suspects discussing the attack were submitted as evidence. These conversations took place in police vehicles when the suspects were arrested and were translated from Punjabi. Nazir was heard describing Parker's death as a \"bloodbath\", and how the third blow from the knife had split the whole of his neck open. Awan and Nazir were both heard discussing the statements they had given to police and the plan they had \"made up\". The court was also told of an exchange between Awan and an inmate at Bedford Prison, in which Awan described the killing of Parker in lurid detail. Contents of a letter written by Mahrad were also presented in which he stated he would \"pray to Allah for forgiveness\".\n\nThe jury heard how the murder weapons had been found in a shed at Nazir's house along with two bags of bloodied clothes. DNA and fingerprints belonging to Nazir was found on the hunting knife and Parker's blood was found on both the hammer and knife. His blood was also found on the clothes of two of the accused, along with Nazir and Mahrad's DNA and a pathologist told how marks on Parker's body matched the hammer found in Nazir's shed. Three balaclavas were also recovered from the property, again containing traces of Parker's blood, Nazir's younger brother Wyed told the court he had seen his brother cleaning the murder weapon on the night of the killing and witnessed all four defendants with blood on their clothing. Further witnesses reported Nazir admitting to beating someone up, Mahrad admitting to kicking Parker and Awan recalling stabbing him. A witness also saw all four defendants kicking Parker.\n\nIn court Nazir admitted to seeing the victim lying on the ground and attempting to spray him with CS gas and kicking him. He also acknowledged washing the murder weapon and stated Ali had hit Parker with the hammer and Awan used the knife. Nazir also alleged prosecution witnesses Zaheer Abbas and Adeel Rehman had been involved in the attack too. Mahrad had also admitted to being present at the murder scene, and claimed that the blood stains found on his trousers occurred as a result of his accidentally falling across Parker. Ali, defended by Mohammed Latif, denied being at the scene and claimed to have been asleep at the time of the murder, although a recording from a police van indicated this was a \"story\" that he had encouraged the others to \"stick to\". Awan also denied being present and claimed he had been at home playing on his PlayStation with Shokat Awan, his brother.\nNigel Rumfitt QC, defending Awan, summarised the crime by stating: \"These people were not taking the night air. Every member of the group knew what was going on. These weapons had been selected before they set off. The knife was far too big to be hidden from the others. There is no doubt there was a hunting party looking for a victim.\"\n\nOn 19 December 2002, Nazir, Awan and Ali were all found guilty of murder in unanimous verdicts. The judge, Sir Edwin Jowitt, summarised the murder during sentencing:\n\nThe judge concluded that Awan had wielded the knife, was the ringleader of the group and had intended to kill. The three received life sentences, with Awan to serve a minimum of 18 years and the others at least 16. Mahrad was cleared of murder and manslaughter.\n\nAfter the trial it was revealed that Nazir had previously been cautioned for using threatening behaviour in 1999 and fined for resisting arrest. The two Labour politicians, Akhtar and Choudhary, who provided Ali's references were later jailed themselves for forgery in relation to vote rigging.\n\nAwan and Nazir appealed against their jail terms in January 2008 but the original sentences were upheld. Judge Justice Davis said he had taken into account \"moving\" statements from Parker's family. Ali appealed his sentence in July 2009 and also had his sentence upheld. After the first two appeals Parker's father suggested that the killers of his son should never be freed. As noted by Justice Davis, had the crime occurred post-2005, then it is likely that significantly higher minimum terms would have been imposed on the perpetrators owing to reforms in the Criminal Justice Act 2003. These reforms recommend a minimum term of 30 years for racially aggravated murder.\n\nThe BBC Editorial Standards Committee in 2007 found that \"there was no evidence to suggest that the BBC had shown a specific and systemic bias in favour of cases where the victim had been black or Asian\", but accepted it had \"underplayed its coverage of the Ross Parker case\" and repeated the failings in its coverage of the Murder of Kriss Donald.\n\nYasmin Alibhai-Brown and Kelvin MacKenzie expressed similar sentiments. MacKenzie criticised newspapers including his own employer, \"The Sun\". He stated, \"if you believe you're a victim of an ethnic minority and you're white there is nowhere to go. Editors are so liberal that they are scared to be seen that they're moving to the right of their paper\". Parker's mother, Davinia, expressed similar concerns that white victims of race crime are ignored. She said \"because we are white, English, we didn't get the coverage\", adding \"\"it's as if we don't count\".\n\nIn 2006, a \"Sunday Times\" investigation by Brendan Montague examined British newspaper archives for coverage of racist crimes, finding \"an almost total boycott of stories involving the white victims of attacks\" whereas \"cases involving black and minority ethnic victims are widely reported\".\n\nOthers have noted that the lack of coverage is not simply a media issue. Peter Fahy, the spokesman on race issues for the Association of Chief Police Officers said: \"A lot of police officers and other professionals feel almost the best thing to do is to try and avoid [discussing such attacks] for fear of being criticised. This is not healthy\". Montague suggests the lack of police appeals in cases involving white victims may be a cause of the lack of media coverage. Evidence of this was seen in the Parker case, with the police initially appearing keen to dismiss the possible racist aspect of the murder, stating \"there was no reason to believe that the attack was racially motivated\".\n\nAmerican Townhall commentator Larry Provost focused on the religion of the attackers as the key factor in the murder. Writing in August 2014, he suggested the perpetrators were Islamists who had been \"motivated by religion\".\n\nThe newspaper which covered Parker's murder more extensively faced criticism. The Government Office for the East of England produced a report by Dr Roger Green examining race relations in Peterborough. The document suggested that the \"Peterborough Evening Telegraph\" had a history of insensitivity, and coverage of the case was \"possibly adding to any climate of racial and communal unrest\". The criticism of the paper was rejected by a senior police officer and an Asian community leader, both of whom praised its handling of the case.\n\nThe leader of Peterborough City Council called the report by Dr Green\nunfair.\n\nParker's murder led to increased racial tensions in Peterborough. At his former school, three Asian pupils were suspended for an attack on an Afro-Caribbean pupil; a relative of the victim then attacked an Asian teacher. A number of taxi firms stopped work early in the days after the attack in fear of reprisals. In November 2001 Home Secretary David Blunkett banned all marches in Peterborough for three months as it was feared violence would be caused by the Anti-Nazi League and National Front who both sought to hold protests on the same day.\n\nParker's death also had a major impact on his family. His mother, Davinia, was unable to work for three months after Parker's funeral and came close to attempting suicide on a number of occasions. Parker's room was left largely untouched for three years after the incident because his parents were reluctant to tidy it. They described the room as a place they \"feel close to Ross\".\n\nAs a result of the murder of Parker, local authorities set up a unity scheme, whereby gang members from different communities were trained as youth workers to ease racial tensions and reduce violence. However, problems still persisted, with racist graffiti painted by \"yobs\" and \"thugs\" near the murder scene two years after the incident reading \"no go area for whites\", \"Paki powa\" and \"death to whites\".\n\nMark Easton cited the Parker case as demonstrating how society has been forced to redefine racism and discard the erroneous definition of \"prejudice plus power\"—a definition which, in Easton's view, tended to only allow ethnic minorities to be victims and whites to be perpetrators. He also considered that \"Describing an incident as racist may say as much about a victim's mindset as the offender. How else can one explain the British Crime Survey finding that 3,100 car thefts from Asians were deemed to be racially motivated?\" Yasmin Alibhai-Brown condemned the double standards of racial equality campaigners in relation to the case, suggesting black activists should \"march and remember victims like Ross Parker ... our values are worthless unless all victims of these senseless deaths matter equally\". She went on to write that \"to treat some victims as more worthy of condemnation than others is unforgivable and a betrayal of anti-racism itself\".\n\nParker's funeral took place at Peterborough Crematorium in Marholm on 23 October 2001 and more than 400 mourners attended. His \"number 14\" Netherton United football shirt was draped over his coffin and his teammates formed a guard of honour dressed in the same strip (kit). The Reverend Geoffrey Keating described Parker as \"a beacon of light who inspired so many people\" and \"an extremely popular young man\".\n\nThe murder received little attention from politicians, although in 2003 Peterborough Member of Parliament Helen Clark made a statement in the House of Commons sending condolences to Parker's family, paying tribute to the Peterborough community and in particular Parker's former school. She described Parker's killers only as \"men older than him\" and her tributes were echoed by John Denham.\n\nA plaque was installed in Netherton in Peterborough as a memorial to Parker, and a further memorial is located at Peterborough Crematorium. His former football team mates and friends also play a match every May in his memory and formed a team called \"Ross' Rangers\".\n\nA rose bush was also planted at the Parker family home in remembrance.\n\n"}
{"id": "45126852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45126852", "title": "Nowa Omoigui", "text": "Nowa Omoigui\n\nNowamagbe Omoigui (born March 28, 1959 ) is a Nigerian military historian and cardiologist.\n\nNowa Omoigui attended Corona primary school, St Saviors Primary School, and St Mary's Primary School, all in Lagos, Nigeria. For his secondary education, Nowa Omoigui Federal Government College, Warri, and King's College, Lagos. For his undergraduate education, he studied at the University of Ibadan where he graduated with an MBBS with distinction.\n\nAn autobiographical statement from the Uhrobo Historical Society for Nowa Omoigui reads:\n\nNowa Omoigui gained unique and first hand insights (via relationships built with Nigerian military personnel) into many key events associated with Nigeria's military via a National Youth Service Corps posting with the Nigerian Army's Brigade of Guards in 1983. Nowa Omoigui is a member of the South Carolina Military History Club and is an amateur gun and military aircraft enthusiast.\n\nNowa Omoigui has written extensively about key events about Nigeria's history: the 1966 Nigerian coup d'état, the Nigerian Counter-Coup of 1966, the Nigerian Palace Coup of 1975, the abortive February 13, 1976 coup, the Nigerian Military Coup of December 31, 1983, the palace coup of 1985, the Vatsa Coup Conspiracy of 1985, The Gideon Orkar Coup of 1990 among many others.\n"}
{"id": "2200885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200885", "title": "Offenburg", "text": "Offenburg\n\nOffenburg (\"open borough\" - coat of arms showing open gates; Fr. \"Offenbourg\") is a city located in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. With about 57,000 inhabitants (2013), it is the largest city and the administrative capital of the Ortenaukreis.\n\nOffenburg is located approximately 15 km east of the river Rhine between Karlsruhe and Freiburg. The French city of Strasbourg lies 20 km northwest across the Rhine. Offenburg is situated at the mouth of the Kinzig river valley and at the foot of the Black Forest. The Kinzig flows out of the Black Forest and meets the Rhine near Kehl.\n\nIn recent times the remainders of Roman settlements have been found within the city's territory. Offenburg was first mentioned in historical documents dating from 1148. By 1240 Offenburg had already been declared a Free Imperial City. In September 1689 the city - with the exception of two buildings - was totally destroyed during the Nine Years War by French troops. Due to Napoleon's dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1803 and reorganization of the German states, in 1803 Offenburg lost its status as a Free Imperial City and fell under the rule of the Grand Duchy of Baden.\n\nDuring the outbreak of the Revolutions of 1848, the \"Offenburger Programm\" which contained thirteen demands \"in the name of the people of Baden\" was announced at the Salmen Inn on 12 September 1847. This was the first democratic demand in Germany. Along with the Karlsbad Resolves, the Offenburger Program demanded basic and human rights as well as freedom of the press and a progressive income tax structure. On 19 March 1848 the demands were confirmed by the 20,000 member Offenburg Peoples' Assembly.\n\nDuring World War I Offenburg was one of the first cities to experience the effects from aerial bombardment, the operations against the Offenburg railway sidings mostly being flown by aircraft from the Independent Force out of Ochey aerodrome.\n\nIt is a mostly forgotten fact that in the aftermath of World War I, during the Occupation of the Ruhr, French troops had occupied Offenburg as it fell within the perimeter of the Kehl bridgehead. The French occupation forces entered the town in February 1923 and stayed until 1924, blocking any traffic on the Rhine Valley Railway between Offenburg and Appenweier.\n\nFollowing the rise to power of the NSDAP in the 1930s the Jewish population fell victim to acts of repression that in the pre-war era culminated in the vandalization of the local synagoge in November 1938. After the war had begun, those members of the Jewish population that had not managed to emigrate were deported in October 1940 to the concentration camp of Gurs and in 1942 from there to Auschwitz.\n\nIn World War II, owing to the geographical proximity to the French border, Offenburg was either exposed to temporary evacuations during the Battle of France in 1940 or artillery fire towards the final stages of World War II. Though only being a primary target on one occasion during World War II on 27 November 1944 when a force of more than 300 USAAF B-17 and Liberator bombers attacked the marshalling yards, many tactical attacks were flown during 1944 and 1945 against the railway installations.\n\nThe French Forces entered Offenburg on 15 April 1945 and hence Offenburg became part of the French Zone of Occupation until the creation of the Federal Republic of Germany in May 1949.\n\nSince then Offenburg has been constantly developing, both in size, inhabitants and prosperity. Between 1971 and 1975 eleven adjacent villages were incorporated into the commune of Offenburg and are now an integral part of the city.\n\n\n\nOwing to its favourable geographic situation Offenburg has been lying at the crossroads of important lines of communication that can be traced back to Roman times.\n\nOffenburg is situated 3 km east of the federal motorway A 5, to which it has been connected since 1960 via a famous egg-shaped junction.\nTwo major federal roads, B 3 and B 33, intersect at Offenburg.\n\nSince the arrival of the railways from Mannheim in 1844, Offenburg had developed into a railway center during the 19th and earlier part of the 20th century. However, since the privatization of the Deutsche Bundesbahn and the ensuing restructuring of the Deutsche Bahn AG which subsequently led to the shut down of the railway workshops the operations in Offenburg have considerably shrunk in size. \nToday Offenburg station lies at the crossroads of a number of railway lines, the most important of which is the Rhine Valley Railway the main line between Karlsruhe and Basel with regular Intercity Express (ICE) services to Basel, Berlin, Cologne, Frankfurt, Frankfurt Airport and Amsterdam. The picturesque Black Forest Railway starts at Offenburg as does the line to Strasbourg and the line serving the Rench valley in the Black Forest.\n\nOffenburg airfield (EDTO) has been used for flying purposes since 1911 and has received a paved runway in 1975. It is owned by the municipality. However, since its decommissioning and declassification in the 1990s, the 910 metre asphalt runway (02-20) is only available to resident aeroclubs and to aircraft that have obtained prior permission from the operator. Airports in the vicinity are: Flughafen Lahr in Lahr (EDTL) and, with scheduled traffic, Strasbourg-Entzheim (LFST) and Baden-Söllingen (EDSB). Both, Lahr and Baden-Söllingen had formerly been used by the Canadian Forces in Europe and became available for civil use after the end of the Cold War.\nThe combination of an abundance of three well-equipped airports close by, the ever-growing noise sensitivity of residents as well as the necessity for commercial development areas has in 2012 revived discussions to shut down the aerodrome completely.\n\nOffenburg has a rich trade and manufacturing sector and is home to a number of well-known brands, e.g. tesa, Vivil, Meiko Maschinenbau (professional dishwashers), Hansgrohe. The most important single company however, is Hubert Burda Media, one of Germany's most influential publishing companies. \nThe expansion of Burda's printing business after World War II has been the most significant factor to the development of the local economy after 1945.\n\nApart from the primary and secondary schools that are within the responsibility of several public bodies, Offenburg houses a diverse number of educational institutions.\n\nOffenburg is also home to the University of Applied Sciences Offenburg.\n\nThere are several historical attractions in Offenburg including:\n\n\nOffenburger FV is a German association football club based in the city of Offenburg, Baden-Württemberg. The club is one of the most successful amateur football clubs in Germany.\n\n\nOffenburg is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "16071836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16071836", "title": "Operation Giant Lance", "text": "Operation Giant Lance\n\nOperation Giant Lance was a secret military operation by the United States that simulated a nuclear attack on the Soviet Union during the Cold War. On October 10, 1969, on the advice of National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger, U.S. President Richard Nixon issued the order.\n\nPreparations were made to send a squadron of 18 B-52s of the 92d Strategic Aerospace Wing loaded with nuclear weapons to fly toward the Soviet Union. It was hoped that this would convince the Soviets that Nixon was willing to resort to nuclear war in order to win the Vietnam War. The squadron took off on October 27 and flew towards the Soviet Union. Actions were designed to be detectable by the Soviets. Nixon cancelled the operation on October 30.\n\nThe plan was part of Nixon's madman theory, a concept based on game theory, and its details remained unknown to the public until Freedom of Information Act requests in the 2000s revealed documents about the operation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14836352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14836352", "title": "Ottar Dahl", "text": "Ottar Dahl\n\nOttar Dahl (5 January 1924 – 4 April 2011) was a Norwegian historian and historiographer.\n\nHe was born in Nannestad. He took the dr. philos. degree in 1957, worked at the University of Oslo as a scholarship holder from 1957, \"docent\" from 1960 and professor from 1966 to 1991. He then retired to a position as professor emeritus.\n\nHe was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. From 1972 to 1975 he chaired the Norwegian Historical Association. He died in April 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165599", "title": "Pyramidology", "text": "Pyramidology\n\nPyramidology (or pyramidism) refers to various religious or pseudoscientific speculations regarding pyramids, most often the Giza pyramid complex and the Great Pyramid of Giza in Egypt. Some \"pyramidologists\" also concern themselves with the monumental structures of pre-Columbian America (such as Teotihuacan, the Mesoamerican Maya civilization, and the Inca of the South American Andes), and the temples of Southeast Asia.\n\nSome pyramidologists claim that the Great Pyramid of Giza has encoded within it predictions for the exodus of Moses from Egypt, the crucifixion of Jesus, the start of World War I, the founding of modern-day Israel in 1948, and future events including the beginning of Armageddon; this was discovered by using what they call \"pyramid inches\" to calculate the passage of time where one British inch equals one solar year.\n\nPyramidology reached its peak by the early 1980s. Interest revived when in 1992 and 1993 Rudolf Gantenbrink sent a miniature remote-controlled robot rover, known as upuaut, up one of the \"air shafts\" in the Queen's Chamber of the Great Pyramid of Giza. Upuaut discovered the shaft closed off by a stone block with decaying copper hooks attached to the outside. In 1994 Robert Bauval published the book \"The Orion Mystery\", attempting to prove that the pyramids on the Giza plateau were built to mimic the stars in the belt of the constellation Orion, a claim that came to be known as the Orion correlation theory. \n\nThe main types of pyramidological accounts involve one or more aspects which include:\n\n\nMetrological pyramidology dates to the 17th century. John Greaves, an English mathematician, astronomer and antiquarian, first took precise measurements of the Great Pyramid at Giza using the best mathematical instruments of the day. His data was published in \"Pyramidographia\" (1646) which theorized a geometric cubit was used by the builders of the Great Pyramid (see: Egyptian royal cubit). While Greave's measurements were objective, his metrological data was later misused by numerologists:\n\nIn his work \"The great pyramid; why was it built: & who built it?\" (1859) John Taylor described a possible connection with the dimensions of the pyramid and the golden ratio (see Kepler triangle). He also proposed that the \ninch used to build the Great Pyramid (see pyramid inch) was 1/25 of the \"sacred cubit\" (whose existence had earlier been postulated by Isaac Newton). Taylor was also the first to claim the pyramid was divinely inspired, contained a revelation and was built not by the Egyptians, but instead the Hebrews pointing to Biblical passages (Is. 19: 19-20; Job 38: 5-7) to support his theories. For this reason Taylor is often credited as being the \"founder of pyramidology\". Martin Gardner noted:\n\nTaylor in turn influenced the Astronomer Royal of Scotland Charles Piazzi Smyth, F.R.S.E., F.R.A.S., who made numerous numerological calculations on the pyramid and published them in a 664-page book \"Our Inheritance in the Great Pyramid\" (1864) followed by \"Life, and Work in the Great Pyramid\" (1867). These two works fused pyramidology with British Israelism and Smyth first linked the hypothetical pyramid inch to the British Imperial Unit system.\n\nSmyth's theories were later expanded upon by early 20th century British Israelites such as Colonel Garnier (\"Great Pyramid: Its Builder & Its Prophecy\", 1905), who began to theorise that chambers within the Great Pyramid contain prophetic dates which concern the future of the British, Celtic, or Anglo-Saxon peoples. However this idea originated with Robert Menzies, an earlier correspondent of Smyth's. David Davidson with H. Aldersmith wrote \"The Great Pyramid, Its Divine Message\" (1924) and further introduced the idea that Britain's chronology (including future events) may be unlocked from inside the Great Pyramid. This theme is also found in Basil Stewart's trilogy on the same subject: \"Witness of the Great Pyramid\" (1927), \"The Great Pyramid, Its Construction, Symbolism and Chronology\" (1931) and \"History and Significance of the Great Pyramid...\" (1935). More recently a four-volume set entitled \"Pyramidology\" was published by British Israelite Adam Rutherford (released between 1957–1972). British Israelite author E. Raymond Capt also wrote \"Great Pyramid Decoded\" in 1971 followed by \"Study in Pyramidology\" in 1986.\n\nJoseph Seiss was a Lutheran minister who was a proponent of pyramidology. He wrote \"A Miracle in Stone: or, The Great Pyramid of Egypt\" in 1877. His work was popular with contemporary evangelical Christians.\n\nIn 1891 pyramidology reached a global audience when it was integrated into the works of Charles Taze Russell, founder of the Bible Student movement. Russell however denounced the British-Israelite variant of pyramidology in an article called \"The Anglo-Israelitish Question\" . Adopting Joseph Seiss's designation that the Great Pyramid of Giza was \"the Bible in stone\" Russell taught that it played a special part in God's plan during the \"last days\" basing his interpretation on Isaiah 19:19-20 which says - \"In that day shall there be an altar (pile of stones) to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar (Hebrew \"matstebah\", or monument) at the border thereof to the Lord. And it shall be for a sign, and for a witness unto the Lord of Hosts in the land of Egypt.\" Two brothers, archaeologists John and Morton Edgar, as personal associates and supporters of Russell, wrote extensive treatises on the history, nature, and prophetic symbolism of the Great Pyramid in relation to the then known archaeological history, along with their interpretations of prophetic and Biblical chronology. They are best known for their two-volume work \"Great Pyramid Passages and Chambers\", published in 1910 and 1913.\n\nAlthough most Bible Student groups continue to support and endorse the study of pyramidology from a Biblical perspective, the Bible Students associated with the Watchtower Society, who chose ’Jehovah's Witnesses’ as their new name in 1931, have abandoned pyramidology entirely since 1928.\n\nAnother set of speculations concerning pyramids have centered upon the possible existence of an unknown energy concentrated in pyramidical structures.\n\nPyramid energy was popularized in the early 1970s, particularly by New Age authors such as Patrick Flanagan (\"Pyramid Power: The Millennium Science\", 1973), Max Toth and Greg Nielsen (\"Pyramid Power\", 1974) and Warren Smith (\"Secret Forces of the Pyramids\", 1975). These works focused on the alleged energies of pyramids in general, not solely the Egyptian pyramids. Toth and Nielsen for example reported experiments where \"seeds stored in pyramid replicas germinated sooner and grew higher\".\n\nLewis Spence in his \"An Encyclopaedia of Occultism\" (1920) summed up on the earliest of pseudoarcheological claims on the ancient Egyptian pyramids as follows:\n\n\"...in the 1880s, Ignatius Donnelly had suggested that the Great Pyramid had been built by the descendants of the Atlanteans. That idea was picked up in the 1920s by Manly Palmer Hall who went on to suggest that they were the focus of the ancient Egyptian wisdom schools. Edgar Cayce built upon Hall's speculations.\"\n\nIgnatius Donnelly and later proponents of the hyperdiffusionist view of history claimed that all pyramid structures across the world had a common origin. Donelly claimed this common origin was in Atlantis. While Grafton Elliot Smith claimed Egypt, writing: \"Small groups of people, moving mainly by sea, settled at certain places and there made rude imitations of the Egyptian monuments of the Pyramid Age.\"\n\nSeveral proponents of ancient astronauts claim that the Great Pyramid of Giza was constructed by extraterrestrial beings, or influenced by them (e.g., through their advanced technology). Proponents include Erich von Däniken, Robert Charroux, W. Raymond Drake, and Zecharia Sitchin. According to Erich Von Däniken, the Great Pyramid has advanced numerological properties which could not have been known to the ancient Egyptians and so must have been passed down by extraterrestrials: \"...the height of the pyramid of Cheops, multiplied by a thousand million—98,000,000 miles—corresponds approximately to the distance between the Earth and the sun\".\n\nRobert Bauval and Graham Hancock (1996) have both suggested that the 'ground plan' of the three main Egyptian pyramids was physically established in c. 10,500 BC, but that the pyramids were built around 2,500 BC. This theory was based on their \ninitial claims regarding the alignment of the Giza pyramids with Orion (\"…the three pyramids were a terrestrial map of the three stars of Orion's belt\"— Hancock's \"Fingerprints of the Gods\", 1995, p. 375) are later joined with speculation about the age of the Great Sphinx (Hancock and Bauval, \"Keeper of Genesis\", published 1996, and in 1997 in the U.S. as \"The Message of the Sphinx\").\n\nLinked to the pseudoarchaeological ancient astronaut theory and Orion correlation theory are related claims that the Great Pyramid was constructed by the use of an advanced lost technology. Proponents of this theory often link this hypothetical advanced technology to extraterrestrials but also Atlanteans, Lemurians or a legendary lost race. Notable proponents include Christopher Dunn and David Hatcher Childress. Graham Hancock also in his book \"Fingerprints of the Gods\" assigned the 'ground plan' of the three main Egyptian pyramids, in his theory to an advanced progenitor civilization which possessed advanced technology.\n\nAuthor Alan F. Alford interprets the entire Great Pyramid in the context of ancient Egyptian religion. Alford takes as his starting point the golden rule that the pharaoh had to be buried in the earth, i.e. at ground level or below, and this leads him to conclude that Khufu was interred in an ingeniously concealed cave whose entrance is today sealed up in the so-called Well Shaft adjacent to a known cave called the Grotto. He has lobbied the Egyptian authorities to explore this area of the pyramid with ground penetrating radar.\n\nThe cult of creation theory also provided the basis for Alford's next idea: that the sarcophagus in the King's Chamber - commonly supposed to be Khufu's final resting place - actually enshrined iron meteorites. He maintains, by reference to the Pyramid Texts, that this iron was blasted into the sky at the time of creation, according to the Egyptians' geocentric way of thinking. Alford says the King's Chamber, with its upward inclined dual 'airshafts', was built to capture the magic of this mythical moment.\n\nAlford's most speculative idea is that the King's Chamber generated low frequency sound via its 'airshafts', the purpose being to re-enact the sound of the earth splitting open at the time of creation.\n\nVarious spiritual organizations in India, have used pyramids as a means to promote theories of their potency.\nNumerous papers have been published in an Indian science journal called the \"Indian Journal of Traditional Knowledge\" by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.\n\nThe renowned Egyptologist Flinders Petrie in 1880 went to Egypt to perform new measurements of the Great Pyramid and wrote that he found that the pyramid was several feet smaller than previously believed by John Taylor and Charles Piazzi Smyth. Flinders therefore claimed that the hypothetical pyramid inch of the pyramidologists had no basis in truth and published his results in \"The Pyramids and Temples of Gizeh\" (1883), writing: \"there is no authentic example, that will bear examination, of the use or existence of any such measure as a 'Pyramid inch,' or of a cubit of 25.025 British inches.\" Proponents of the pyramid inch, especially British Israelites responded to Petrie's discoveries and claimed to have found flaws in them. Petrie refused to respond to these criticisms, claiming he had disproved the pyramid inch and compared continuing proponents to \"flat earth believers\":\n\nIn 1930, Belgian Egyptologists Jean Capart and Marcelle Werbrouck stated that \"with the help of mathematicians – and often mingling with them – mystics have invented what might be called the “religion of the pyramids”\". Six years later, Adolf Erman complained the fact that certain theories were still proposed even though a century of research would have debunked all of these long since.\n\nOn 24 January 1937 Gustave Jéquier chose to expose his criticism of the pyramidology assumptions on a mass media, the newspaper \"Gazette de Lausanne\", lamenting that \"these speculations didn't deserve the resonance they have had\" and warning the audience against \"prophecies incurred by arguments masked as science, when the very foundations of these reasonings, cleverly disguised, are nothing but inaccurate news or simple hypotheses and that the whole argument is clearly tendentious\".\n\nThe term \"pyramidiot\" is said to have been coined by Leonard Cottrell, whose 1956 book \"The Mountains of Pharaoh\" included a chapter entitled \"The Great Pyramidiot\" about Piazzi Smyth's theories.\n\nIn 1964 Barbara Mertz, reflecting the views of the scientific establishment, reported another term for pyramidologists:\n\nThe Toronto Society for Psychical Research organized a research team consisting of Allan Alter (B.Sc.Phm) and Dale Simmons (Dip. Engr. Tech) to explore claims made in Pyramid Power literature that pyramids could preserve better organic matter. Extensive tests showed that pyramid containers \"are no more effective than those of other shapes in preserving and dehydrating organic material.\"\n\nFrench Egyptologist and architect Jean-Philippe Lauer undertook a scientific analysis of several pyramidologists' claims by reconstructing their reasoning step by step and redoing their mathematical calculations. In 1974, he concluded that those intuitions, though fascinating and made by people in good faith, have little to no regard to archaeology needs, if not to any other science at all.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21322137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21322137", "title": "Riitta Nikula", "text": "Riitta Nikula\n\nRiitta Nikula (born 1944, in Helsinki), is a Finnish art historian, author and professor emeritus in art and architecture history at the University of Helsinki. She obtained her PhD from the University of Helsinki in 1981 with a study of the architecture of the Töölö region of Helsinki. She was Professor of Art History at the University of Helsinki from 1994 to 2007. Nikula also acted as Head of Research at the Museum of Finnish Architecture from 1988 to 1994. Nikula is regarded as a generalist historian of Finnish architecture, with her writings covering a time-span from prehistoric times to the present day. But she also combines two potentially contradictory viewpoints, a feminist viewpoint and a pro-bourgeois viewpoint, highlighting the role of the ruling middle classes in creating aesthetically valuable architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "20611212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611212", "title": "Rule of Law in Armed Conflicts Project", "text": "Rule of Law in Armed Conflicts Project\n\nThe Rule of Law in Armed Conflicts Project (RULAC Project) is an initiative of the Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights to support the application and implementation of the international law of armed conflict.\n\nThrough a global database and analysis, the RULAC Project has as its aim an assessment of the implementation by states of the law applicable in armed conflicts: \n\nThe project will ultimately cover all member states of the United Nations and parties to the Geneva Conventions as well as contested territories, whether they are in situation of armed conflict or not. Indeed, certain international rules must be implemented during peacetime or are relevant in post-conflict situations, in particular those relating to the repression of international crimes. In addition, the rules regarding the fight against terrorism, also to be covered by the website, are applicable to states that are not necessarily in a situation of armed conflict.\n\nThe website is divided into three parts. The homepage offers a small description of the applicable law and addresses the main legal issues in that area, for example the legal qualification of conflicts or the applicability of international law to non-state armed groups. The website then offers for each country the relevant texts and documents dealing with the national and international legal framework (national legislation and case law, resolutions of intergovernmental organizations, treaty, etc.). Finally, the website offers a legal analysis that, on one hand, qualifies the conflict under international humanitarian law and on the other hand, determines the applicable law. This part of the website, certainly the most delicate in juridical and political terms, is particular to the RULAC Project.\n\nThe RULAC Project should prove to be a precious source of information for government officials, journalists and more widely for any person interested by the respect of the law in war.\n\nThe first three Geneva Conventions were revised, expanded, and replaced, and the fourth one was added, in 1949.\n\n\nIn addition, there are three additional amendment protocols to the Geneva Convention:\n\nICRC, What is International Humanitarian Law?, Fact Sheet, 2004.\n\nICRC, Basic Rules of the 1949 Geneva Conventions and 1977 Additional Protocols, 1988\n\nICRC, study of customary international humanitarian law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844427", "title": "Second modernity", "text": "Second modernity\n\nSecond modernity is a phrase coined by the German sociologist Ulrich Beck, and is his word for the period after modernity.\n\nWhere modernity broke down agricultural society in favour of industrial society, second modernity transforms industrial society into a new and more reflexive network society or information society .\n\nSecond modernity is marked by a new awareness of the risks — risks to all forms of life, plant, animal and human — created by the very successes of modernity in tackling the problem of human scarcity . Systems that previously seemed to offer protection from risks both natural and social are increasingly recognised as producing new man-made risks on a global scale as a byproduct of their functioning . Such systems become part of the problem, not the solution. Modernisation and information advances themselves create new social dangers, such as cybercrime (He 2012, 69), while scientific advances open up new areas, like cloning or genetic modification, where decisions are necessarily made without adequate capacity to assess longterm consequences .\n\nRecognising the fresh dilemmas created by this reflexive modernization, Beck has suggested a new \"cosmopolitan Realpolitik\" to overcome the difficulties of a world in which national interests can no longer be promoted effectively at the national level alone .\n\nSecond modernity has also been linked to the so-called knowledge society, marked by a pluralisation of different types of knowledge . It is characterised in particular by knowledge-dependent risks — the uncertainties manufactured by the information world itself .\n\nVarious forms of resistance to second modernity have emerged, among them for example Euroscepticism .\n\nBeck himself sees al-Qaeda as a by-product of, as well as resistance to, second modernity, not only in its use of information technology tools, but also in its syncretist ideology .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5445051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5445051", "title": "Seleucid coinage", "text": "Seleucid coinage\n\nThe coinage of the Seleucid Empire is based on the coins of Alexander the Great, which in turn were based on Athenian coinage of the Attic weight. Many mints and different issues are defined, with mainly base and silver coinage being in abundance. A large concentration of mints existed in the Seleucid Syria, as the Mediterranean parts of the empire were more reliant on coinage in economic function.\n\nThe symbol of Seleucid power was the anchor, which was placed on the obverse of coins depicting Alexander posthumously. Some Seleucid bronze coinage feature decorative serrated edges similarly with certain Roman denarii and rare Macedonian coins.\n\nThe first Seleucid royal mint was at Seleucia on the Tigris. Antioch, as a new capital, did have the most important mint after Seleucus I moved mint workers there from Seleucia.\n\n\"Bronze\" coinage was issued in five denominations; the weight and size varies greatly and most likely no effort was made to conform to a set standard, they may be denominated in chalkoi.\nThe denomination values and common imagery on \"silver\" coinage was as follows, with the denomination based on the Obol and image most common on the coin:\n\nSuccessor states of the Macedonian Empire continued to mint coins with image of Alexander the Great. Such coins were widespread within the Seleucid Empire, as all mints except the one in Bactra struck them. Antiochus I, son of Seleucus I, was the first Seleucid ruler to strike coins with his own image on them.\n\nTypically, coins which were not based on Attic weight, did not circulate within the empire. Attalid, Ptolemaic and Rhodian coins were using a different standard. Regulations may have existed to enforce usage of the Attic standard. However, the regulations were probably made for practical reasons rather than being politically motivated. Coele-Syria and Phoenicia were exceptions to the rule of using the Attic standard. They were conquered by Antiochus III the Great in 200 BC. Seleucids struck some coins in the Ptolemaic standard to be used in the region, and both standards coexisted there.\n\nSeleucid regulations on coinage different from Achaemenid Persia on several aspects. Achaemenid rulers did not try to unify standards for the coinage, and they allowed local satraps to strike coins in their own name. While the Seleucids preserved the system of satraps, they banned local rulers from striking coins in their own name. Some cities had their own mints for bronze coinage, while gold coins and large silver denominations were made only at the royal mints. However, the empire controlled on some extent even the striking of local bronze coinage.\n\nAfter Antiochus III was defeated in a war against Rome and a large war indemnity had to be paid, silver coinage became scarcer and lighter. There were few new silver coins struck for two decades after the defeat. Bronze mostly replaced silver in mints between 173 BC and 171 BC.\n\nWhen the Seleucid Empire began to decline, and its rule on parts of the empire weakened since the last decades of the second century BC, local cities began producing their own silver coinages to show their autonomy from the central bureaucracy.\n\nDespite seemingly enforcing some regulations, Seleucid policy was still somewhat free compared to the Ptolemaic Kingdom which imposed an exclusive royal currency. In coin making process there were similarities with the Ptolemaic coinage. For instance, the Seleucid coins often have a central depression from the coin making process.\n\nSeleucid core territory around Syria had a large concentration of mints. Eastern provinces had a single mint each. Mediterranean regions of the Seleucid kingdom were more monetized, and were economically more reliant on coinage. Use of coinage in Mesopotamia, including areas such as Babylonia and Susiana, was most likely mainly an urban phenomenon, while in rural areas Greek coinage was not necessary for daily life. In Mesopotamia taxation and official payments were most likely the parts of economy where coinage saw usage. Despite Mesopotamia sawing increasing use of coinage during the Hellenistic period, the impact may have been a modest one. Traditional methods of payment did not disappear.\n\nSeleucia on the Tigris held the first Seleucid mint as a capital. Later, when Seleucus I Nicator prioritized construction of an important port city of Antioch over Seleucia, workers from the Seleucia mint were moved to new capital at Antioch. The mint at Antioch produced gold coins, as well as royal bronze coins minted in name of the king. The old mint at Seleucia functioned as a municipal mint at this point, and they did mint the coins in their own name. Furthermore, the mint at Antioch produced more bronze coins than Seleucia. Seleucid dynasty seems to have attempted to create a uniform coinage throughout the empire, as coins with similar symbols and images have been discovered from coinage minted all around the empire. These common symbols include an anchor and a charging bull.\n\nEarly coinage of the Seleucid Empire was struck in name of Alexander the Great, or the coins at least included his image. Bactra mint was an exception to this almost universal rule as it did not strike coins with the image of Alexander the Great.\n\nMint in Ptolemais in Phoenicia was among the most active ones. While other mints generally used Attic weight, the one in Ptolemais struck coins in a different weight, even after it was conquered by Antiochus III the Great. It is likely that the city struck silver coinage without an interruption after it changed hands, as it was a very important city in Phoenicia.\n\nAnchor was the symbol of Seleucid dynasty starting from the reign of Seleucus I Nicator in 305 BC, and it was used by his successors. The anchor first appeared in reverses of coins with Alexander the Great's image in them. Such coins with Alexander in them were very common in the Diadochi states. Origins of the anchor as a symbol is obscure, but there are several theories about the origin. For instance, it may commemorate Seleucus' career under Ptolemaic rule between 315 BC and 312 BC. Another theory is that the anchor was a form of propaganda aimed at merchants to lure them back into Northern Syrian cities and their new harbors built by Seleucus.\n\nAfter Seleucus I's death, his successors began to strike coins with their own image. Coins of the Seleucid Empire had imagery including a reigning king with a lion head dress, or Zeus on a throne with a sceptre and eagle in each hand. Certain coins portrayed a god or goddess, or in some cases they had a medusa, a charging bull or an anchor.\n\nCoinage struck by Antiochus IV Epiphanes can be considered to be iconographically innovative when compared to other Seleucid rulers.\nHe is associated with various celestial attributes and symbols such as stars and rays about his head. Both Antiochus IV and Seleucus IV Philopator struck coins with the solar deity Helios. Another deity closely associated with reign of these two rulers and brothers is Apollo.\n\nCertain Seleucid bronze coinage have serrated edges, otherwise rare in ancient coins. They are sometimes called bottle cap coins. Seleucid mints struck this type of bronze coinage within an approximate period of 187 BC–141 BC. This period was between reigns of Seleucus IV and Antiochus VI.\n\nAs a comparison, there are known instances of coins with serrated edges from the Kingdom of Macedon during reign of Philip V. Like in the Seleucid mints, the Macedonians did also somewhat quickly discard the process.\n\nOne theory is that the serrated edge made it easier to prove that the coin was solid metal. However, only the Seleucid bronze coinage, rather than coins of gold and silver, feature this sort of an edge. Certain Roman serrated denarii were especially designed to be harder to counterfeit or debase. However, the Roman efforts probably failed since there are silver plated copper denarii in existence. Seleucids are believed to not have serrated their coins as an anti-counterfeiting measure. Syrian mints serrated their coins simply as a decorative method, and it is also possible that the Romans also sought only the aesthetic value.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51382180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51382180", "title": "Statement of Information Relating to Acts of Violence", "text": "Statement of Information Relating to Acts of Violence\n\nThe Statement of Information Relating to Acts of Violence was a White Paper published by the British Government on 24 July 1946. It was published as a request of the Prime Minister following the British Operation Agatha on 29 June 1946. Although it was published two days after the King David hotel bombing, it had been prepared prior to that event.\n\nThe paper set out details of the Jewish insurgency in Mandatory Palestine, including evidence that the Jewish Agency had been complicit with the terrorist groups. A telegram had been intercepted, including codenames, one of which \"Hayyim\" was understood to be Chaim Weizmann.\n"}
{"id": "40221184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40221184", "title": "Stephen M. Sheppard", "text": "Stephen M. Sheppard\n\nStephen M. Sheppard (born 1963) is Dean and Charles E. Cantu Distinguished Professor of Law at St. Mary's University School of Law, in the City of San Antonio, Texas. He teaches international law, environmental law, professional responsibility, and legal history. His writings are often published under his familiar name, Steve Sheppard.\n\nSheppard received a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Southern Mississippi followed by a J.D., L.L.M., and J.S.D. from Columbia University. He has also received a post-J.D. certificate in International Law from Columbia University and was made Master of Letters by Oxford University.\n\nThough active in other fields, Sheppard is a legal historian, with a focus on the development of the common law and of legal institutions, particularly legal education in the United States. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Historical Society especially for his work on early modern English law, including his three-volume anthology, \"The Selected Writings of Sir Edward Coke.\" He is also a member of the Selden Society. His work in the law has been widely cited by courts including the Utah Supreme Court, (in \"State v. Reyes\", 116 P.3d 305 (2005)) it changed the burden of proof for felonies in Utah citing Sheppard's law review article, \"The Metamorphoses of Reasonable Doubt: How Changes in the Burden of Proof Have Weakened the Presumption of Innocence\", as its only academic authority. He wrote a new edition of the great American legal dictionary by John Bouvier, \"The Wolters Kluwer Bouvier Law Dictionary\". An active scholarly editor, he has prepared new editions of several classic lawbooks, including the massive \"Opera Omnia\" of John Selden and the modern classics, \"Bramble Bush\" by Karl Llewellyn and \"Introduction to the Legal System of the United States\" by E. Allan Farnsworth. His most innovative work combines legal history with legal philosophy and the practical demands of legal practice, \"I Do Solemnly Swear: The Moral Obligations of legal Officials\".\n\nA member of the State Bar of Texas and the Mississippi Bar, Sheppard is admitted to practice before the U.S. Supreme Court, and the U.S. Tax Court.\n\nUntil 2014, he was the William H. Enfield Distinguished Professor of Law at the University of Arkansas School of Law, where he was also the Associate Dean for Research and Faculty Development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "806141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806141", "title": "Subartu", "text": "Subartu\n\nThe land of Subartu (Akkadian \"Šubartum/Subartum/ina Šú-ba-ri\", Assyrian \"mât Šubarri\") or Subar (Sumerian Su-bir/Subar/Šubur) is mentioned in Bronze Age literature. The name also appears as \"Subari\" in the Amarna letters, and, in the form \"Šbr\", in Ugarit.\n\nSubartu was apparently a polity in Upper Mesopotamia, at the upper Tigris. Most scholars suggest that \"Subartu\" is an early name for Assyria proper on the Tigris and westward, although there are various other theories placing it sometimes a little farther to the east and/or north. Its precise location has not been identified. \nFrom the point of view of the Akkadian Empire, Subartu marked the northern geographical horizon, just as Martu, Elam and Sumer marked \"west\", \"east\" and \"south\", respectively.\n\nThe Sumerian mythological epic \"Enmerkar and the Lord of Aratta\" lists the countries where the \"languages are confused\" as Subartu, Hamazi, Sumer, Uri-ki (Akkad), and the Martu land (the Amorites). Similarly, the earliest references to the \"four quarters\" by the kings of Akkad name Subartu as one of these quarters around Akkad, along with Martu, Elam, and Sumer. Subartu in the earliest texts seem to have been farming mountain dwellers, frequently raided for slaves.\n\nEannatum of Lagash was said to have smitten Subartu or Shubur, and it was listed as a province of the empire of Lugal-Anne-Mundu; in a later era Sargon of Akkad campaigned against Subar, and his grandson Naram-Sin listed Subar along with Armani, which has been identified with Aleppo, among the lands under his control. Ishbi-Erra of Isin and Hammurabi also claimed victories over Subar.\n\nThree of the 14th-century BC Amarna letters – Akkadian cuneiform correspondence found in Egypt – mention \"Subari\" as a toponym. All are addressed to Akhenaten; in two (EA 108 and 109), Rib-Hadda, king of Byblos, complains that Abdi-Ashirta, ruler of Amurru, had sold captives to Subari, while another (EA 100), from the city of Irqata, also alludes to having transferred captured goods to Subari.\n\nThere is also a mention of \"Subartu\" in the 8th century BC \"Poem of Erra\" (IV, 132), along with other lands that have harassed Babylonia. In Neo-Babylonian times (under Nabopolassar, Nebuchadnezzar II and Nabonidus).\n\nSubartu may have been in the general sphere of influence of the Hurrians. There are various alternate theories associating the ancient \"Subartu\" with one or more modern cultures found in the region, including the Armenians. The Kurdish scholar Mehrdad Izady, claims to have identified Subartu with the current Kurdish tribe of Zebari/Zubari/Zibaris inhabiting the northern ring north of Erbil, east of Mosul up to Hakkari in Turkey.\n\nSubartu (\"Subaru\" of the letters) is a toponym mentioned in the Amarna letters (14th century BC); the letters were written in the short period approximately from 1350–1335 BC. It is commonly accepted that the region referenced was Subartu.\n\nSubartu is only referenced in three of the Amarna letters: EA 100, 108, and EA 109. All three letters state that people, or 'items' are needed to be sold in Subaru, for money.\n\n\"Subaru\" of the letters is only referenced in three Amarna letters, and with no links to any rulers of Subaru.\n\nThe following are the letters referencing Subartu:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37094839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37094839", "title": "Trevithick Society", "text": "Trevithick Society\n\nThe Trevithick Society is a registered charity named for Richard Trevithick, a Cornish engineer who contributed to the use of high pressure steam engines for transportation and mining applications.\n\nIn 1935 the Cornish Engines Preservation Committee (CEPC) was formed to rescue the Levant winding engine which was deemed outdated and scheduled to be scrapped. CEPC were forerunners in the field of Industrial Archaeology. They acquired another winding engine and two pumping engines. CEPC merged with the newly formed Cornish Waterwheel Preservation Society in 1971 and named the organisation the Trevithick Society after Richard Trevithick.\n\nAt Chapel Coombe a set of old Cornish stamps has been re-erected by the Trevithick Society.\n\nDolcoath was the largest and deepest mine in Cornwall, with its principal shaft, known as New Sump Shaft, eventually reaching a depth of below the surface. The pumping engine that worked this shaft dated from 1815; a piece of the cast iron bob from this engine is preserved in the collection of the Trevithick Society.\n\nAlthough founded in Cornwall, members are located across England and the world. An annual celebration is held to celebrate Richard Trevithick's life in Cornwall at Camborne.\n\nMembership is offered to students, individuals and corporations domestically and internationally. Members receive the quarterly newsletter. All members, except students who receive a discounted membership fee, receive the annual journal. Members may attend Cornish Engines (free), Geevor Tin Mine (free), lectures, activities and the Society's annual meeting.\n\nThe organisation produces the \"Journal of the Trevithick Society\" annually and a newsletter quarterly. The purpose of the journal is: \"For the study of history of industry and technology in Cornwall.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33015386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33015386", "title": "Victims of Terrorist Attack on the Pentagon Memorial", "text": "Victims of Terrorist Attack on the Pentagon Memorial\n\nThe Victims of Terrorist Attack on the Pentagon Memorial is a memorial over a group burial site at Arlington National Cemetery in the United States. It commemorates the victims of the Pentagon, which was struck by al-Qaeda terrorists as part of the September 11 attacks. The memorial specifically honors the five individuals for whom no identifiable remains were found. However, a portion of the remains of 25 other victims are buried at the site. The names of the 115 Pentagon employees and 10 contractors in the building, as well as the 53 passengers and six crew members aboard American Airlines Flight 77 (which crashed into the building) are inscribed on the memorial. \n\nAfter the 2001 terrorist attack on the Pentagon, Arlington National Cemetery Superintendent John C. Metzler, Jr. realized that there was a strong likelihood that many of the victims might not have their remains identified, while other remains might be commingled. Many of the victims would be military personnel whose families could choose to have their loved ones buried at Arlington. This would necessitate a group burial at the cemetery, and an appropriate monument to mark the grave.\n\nMetzler designed the memorial himself. He drew inspiration from the memorial to the 253 dead of the United States Coast Guard ship USS \"Serpens\", which is located in the northern corner of Section 34 at Arlington National Cemetery. The \"Serpens\" memorial is octagonal in shape and lists the names of the dead on its side panels.\n\nThe Victims of Terrorist Attack on the Pentagon Memorial is a pentagonal granite marker high. On five sides of the memorial along the top are inscribed the words \"Victims of Terrorist Attack on the Pentagon September 11, 2001\". Aluminum plaques, painted black, are inscribed with the names of the 184 victims of the terrorist attack. There are five plaques, one for each side of the marker. The names of those aboard Flight 77 are marked with a diamond in front of their name. The names of those for whom no remains could be identified are marked with a star in front of their name. A pentagonal base extends approximately out and down from the main body of the memorial.\n\nThe United States Department of Veterans Affairs commissioned the memorial. Granite Industries of Vermont, Inc., of Washington County, Vermont, provided the marker. (The company is also the sole provider of headstones for Arlington National Cemetery.) The stone was quarried near Danby, Vermont, at a site underground and inside a mountain. Michael E. Cappetta, a stoneworker with Granite Industries, sculpted the marker. It was shipped on or about August 20, 2002, to the cemetery.\n\nIdentifying remains at the Pentagon was a lengthy and technically complex task. The speed at which the aircraft struck the building, as well as the intensity of the subsequent fire, left few human remains to be found. Furthermore, the fire severely damaged the DNA in some remains that they were impossible to identify.\nHowever, DNA analysis helped to identify many of the dead. Human remains were taken to a military mortuary at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware. The Armed Forces Institute of Pathology conducted the DNA analysis. Polymerase chain reaction was used to amplify the amount of usable DNA. The United States Department of Defense had previously collected \"bloodstain cards\" from all its civilian and military employees, and the DNA on these cards was used to identify many remains. Families of those aboard Flight 77 provided DNA samples (from commonplace household items like combs or toothbrushes) for use in identifying their loved ones.\n\nNot all the victims of the terrorist attack on the Pentagon qualified for burial at Arlington National Cemetery. Families of those who did often chose to bury the remains of their loved ones at a private cemetery. Sixty-four individuals who died at the Pentagon were buried at Arlington, and 57 of them were interred in Section 64, their headstones facing the Pentagon about away to the southeast (visible through a few trees).\n\nNo remains could be identified for five victims:\n\nIn some cases, additional remains were discovered and identified after a person had already been buried by their families. Some families chose to add these remains to an existing grave. But 25 families chose to have these fragments interred during the group burial rather than disinter their loved ones or hold a second memorial service. The additional remains were cremated, mixed together, and placed in an urn which in turn was placed inside a single wooden coffin. \n\nFive sets of remains were found but could not be identified. Military officials say that, by a process of elimination, they believed these remains to be those of the hijackers. Army Military District of Washington officials said the remains which were inextricably commingled were excluded from the burial so that there was no possibility that any terrorist remains were included. These terrorist and commingled remains were turned over to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in February 2002. The FBI said the remains were \"disposed of in a dignified manner'\", although a very small amount of suspected terrorist remains were retained to aid in later criminal prosecutions.\n\nThe Victims of Terrorist Attack on the Pentagon Memorial was dedicated on September 12, 2002.\n\nA funeral service for the 30 victims was held at the Arlington Memorial Amphitheater, the first time the amphitheater had held such a service since the interment of an unknown member of the armed forces representing Vietnam War dead in 1984. About 1,000 relatives attended the funeral service. The funeral was held the day after the one-year anniversary of the September 11 attacks. Many of these families felt the emotional strain was too much for two days of remembrances, and so chose not to attend the funeral. The September 12 funeral focused on the families of five victims whose remains could not be identified, although all victims were memorialized. United States Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and chaplains from each branch of the United States armed forces spoke, and United States Air Force General Richard Myers, chairman of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, attended. The United States Navy Band provided music.\n\nAfter the funeral, the casket was carried from the amphitheater by an Armed Forces casket team composed of two representatives from each of the four branches of the United States military. The casket team carried the coffin to a horse-drawn caisson provided by and guided by the 3rd US Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard). The United States Army Band, an Army-Air Force honor guard platoon, a color guard from all four services, and a Navy-Marine honor guard platoon led the caisson to the grave site.\n\nThe group burial site is located at the southern end of Section 64, near Patton Circle. The site is on a slight rise, which gives it a view of the Pentagon. Several hundred people attended the graveside service. Wilbert Funeral Services of Laurel, Maryland, provided a burial vault. The grave was dug several days in advance, a concrete foundation for the memorial laid, and a specially-constructed burial vault placed on the foundation. The vault had a concrete core surrounded by three layers of bronze. It was lined with high-impact plastic, and the exterior encased in ABS plastic to simulate marble. The seal of the U.S. Department of Defense and the name of the memorial was inscribed on the cover of the burial vault using a special process. Near the grave was the memorial itself, next to which was displayed a funeral wreath in the shape of a pentagon and made from 184 red carnations.\n\nA rifle party gave a three-volley salute, and a bugler provided by the Navy played \"Taps\". The casket team secured and folded the American flag while the Army Band played \"America the Beautiful\". General Myers accepted the flag on behalf of the Pentagon. Grief counselors from Operation Solace (a group founded to assist the families of victims of the 9/11 attacks) were present to assist families after the service.\n\nThe memorial was installed over the group burial site about a week later. The burial vault was locked, concrete was poured over the vault to fill the grave, and the memorial emplaced once the concrete set.\n\nPonsford, Ltd., a company which provides conservation and curatorial services, maintains the monument and keeps it clean (as it does for all the monuments at Arlington National Cemetery).\n\nThe monument has not received much attention. A critic for \"The Washington Times\", however, approvingly called it a \"five-sided Rock of Ages\". Paul Goldberger, architecture critic for \"The New Yorker\" magazine, was more cautious. By inscribing the name of each victim, he said, the memorial risks becoming a private monument rather than a monument belonging to the entire nation or a symbol of something larger than an individual person.\n\nOn June 20, 2014, a man committed suicide by shooting himself near the Victims of Terrorist Attack on the Pentagon Memorial. Dozens of police vehicles from the Arlington County Police Department, cemetery security, Fort Myer security, and other federal agencies converged on the scene. Cemetery officials said there were no eyewitnesses to the suicide, but were unable to ascertain if he was a veteran.\n\n"}
{"id": "45007059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45007059", "title": "Victor Brombert", "text": "Victor Brombert\n\nVictor Henri Brombert (born, November 11, 1923) is an American scholar of nineteenth and twentieth century literature, the Henry Putnam University Professor at Princeton University.\n\nBrombert was born in Berlin in 1923 into a well-to-do Russian-Jewish family that had fled Russia at the outbreak of the Revolution and settled in Leipzig. When Hitler came to power in Germany, the family left for Paris, and Brombert received his secondary education at the Lycée Janson-de-Sailly. As the German army advanced on Paris in 1940, the family fled to the unoccupied zone under the control of the Vichy government and a year later, in 1941, escaped via Spain to the United States.\n\nIn May 1943 Brombert was drafted into the U.S. army. Due to his fluency in French, German, and Russian he was placed in a special unit, composed chiefly of refugees from Nazi-occupied European countries, that was trained in front-line military intelligence at Camp Ritchie, Maryland, and featured in a documentary film \"The Ritchie Boys\".\n\nIn 1944 he took part in the Normandy landings with the 2nd Armored Division at Omaha Beach and also saw action with the 28th Infantry Division in the Battle of the Bulge. After the war, Brombert studied at Yale University, where he received a B.A. in 1948 and a Ph.D. in Romance Languages and Literatures in 1953. As a graduate student, he was awarded a Fulbright Fellowship (1950–51) to study in Rome, adding Italian to the languages in which he has native fluency. He is married to Beth Archer Brombert, a translator from French and Italian, and the author of the biographies \"Cristina: Portraits of a Princess\" and \"Édouard Manet: Rebel in a Frock Coat\". The Bromberts have two children, Lauren and Marc.\n\nOn completion of his graduate studies Brombert joined the Yale Department of Romance Languages and Literatures. He was appointed Benjamin F. Barge Professor in 1968 and was chair of his Department from 1964 to 1973. In 1975 he moved to Princeton, where he had been appointed Henry Putnam University Professor and was affiliated with the Departments of Comparative Literature and Romance Languages and Literatures. At Princeton, he was also Director of Princeton's Christian Gauss Seminars in Criticism and chairman of its Council of the Humanities. He entered emeritus status in 1999.\n\nBrombert has been a visiting professor at many universities in the U.S. and Europe: the University of California (Berkeley), the Johns Hopkins University, Columbia University, New York University, the University of Colorado, the Scuola Normale Superiore (Pisa, Italy), the Collège de France (Paris), the University of Bologna, the University of Puerto Rico.\n\nBrombert has held fellowships from the American Council of Learned Societies (1967) and from the Guggenheim Foundation (1954–55; 1970). He was Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar in 1986-87 and 1989–90, and a scholar-in-residence at the Rockefeller Foundation in Bellagio, Italy in 1975 and in 1990. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1974, and to the American Philosophical Society in 1987. He holds honorary degrees from the University of Chicago (Doctor of Humane Letters, 1981) and the University of Toronto (Doctor of Laws, 1997). In 1985 he was awarded the Wilbur Cross Medal of the Yale Alumni Association for \"distinguished achievements in scholarship, teaching, academic administration, and public service.” In France, he was honored with the Médaille Vermeil de la Ville de Paris \" (1985) and was made \"Commandeur des Palmes Académiques\" (2008) and \"Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur\" (2009).\n\nIn 1988-89 he served as president of the Modern Language Association.\n\nBrombert’s work is primarily on 19th and 20th century French literature, and also on the history of ideas; the theory of literary criticism; and comparative studies of Italian, Russian, and German narrative writers. In addition to his books, he has contributed to edited volumes and written journal articles on French writers from Pascal to Malraux, Sartre, and Camus, and on many non-French writers: Dostoevsky, Gogol, Tolstoy; Büchner, Max Frisch, Kafka, Thomas Mann; Giorgio Bassani, Primo Levi, Italo Svevo; J. M. Coetzee, Virginia Woolf.\n\nBrombert is also the author of a memoir, \"Trains of Thought: Memories of a Stateless Youth\" (New York: W.W. Norton, 2002; paperback, Anchor Books, 2004). He is currently working on a sequel, to be entitled \"The Sabbatical Years\".\nIn the words of a reviewer in \"The Wall Street Journal\" (December 27, 2013), “Victor Brombert...has been for more than 50 years one of the glories of humanistic scholarship at Yale and Princeton. Though a generation younger than scholarly patriarchs like Erich Auerbach and Leo Spitzer, Mr. Brombert has nonetheless shown himself comparably learned and cosmopolitan in his studies...”\n\nPrincipal Works of Literary Criticism:\n\n\nas Editor:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4671172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4671172", "title": "Vietnamese ceramics", "text": "Vietnamese ceramics\n\nVietnamese ceramics refers to ceramic art and pottery as a form of Vietnamese art. Vietnamese pottery and ceramics has a long history spanning back to thousands of years ago, including long before Chinese domination, as archeological evidence supports.\n\nMuch of Vietnamese pottery and ceramics after the Chinese-domination era was largely influenced by Chinese ceramics, but has developed over time to be distinctly Vietnamese. Vietnamese potters combined indigenous and Chinese elements. They also experimented with both original and individual styles as well as incorporated features from other cultures, such as Cambodia, India and Champa.\n\nVietnamese ceramics were an essential part of the trade between Vietnam and its neighbors during pre-modern times through all the dynasties.\n\nThe Cát Tiên archaeological site in south Vietnam is site located in Cát Tiên National Park. Accidentally discovered in 1985, this site ranges from Quảng Ngãi Commune to Đức Phổ Commune, with the main archaeological artefacts concentrating in Quảng Ngãi, Cát Tiên District, Lâm Đồng Province, southern Tây Nguyên. The unknown civilization which developed this site inhabited it between the 4th century and 9th centuries CE. A number of ceramic ware was found in this site.\n\nBát Tràng porcelain and pottery is a type of ceramics made in the village of Bát Tràng, now merged into suburban Hanoi. The village is located in an area rich in clay suitable for making fine ceramic. Bát Tràng ceramics were esteemed with products rivaling that of Chu Đậu, and later joined by pottery from Đồng Nai, Phu Lang, and Ninh Thuận. The history of pottery production in the village can be traced back as far as the 14th century CE, and in subsequent centuries having been a popular manufactured product extensively traded by local merchants as well as European trading ships throughout Southeast Asia and the Far East. Bát Tràng nowadays still continues producing bowls, dishes and vases not only for the local market but also for exporting to Japan, one of the important market of Vietnamese ceramics. The gas kiln is more and more popular than electric or tradition wooden kiln. Beside the traditional decoration technique by brush, it appears recently the decoration technique using screen printing on rice paper. The new technique is applied mainly for the producing religious products like incense burners. But all other processes of making vessels are still very much handmade which is very important. There is another beautiful thing of Bát Tràng that is the old family houses. It is left only two or three this kind of old house which still keep the spirit of old Bat Trang, where it is found the big size vases, or bows with the decorations from the 14th century, the most popular period of Bat Trang Ceramics. \n\nAnother impressive type of ceramics is found in Bat Trang during the Nguyen dynasty (1802-1945) is \"gốm hoa nâu\", brown patterned ceramics. It has a long history in Vietnam, appeared from the Ly dynasty (1010-1225). There are different techniques and products produced at different periods. During the Early Le dynasty (1428-1527), brown patterned was used with other colors. During the Mac dynasty (1527-1592), it was found majority on candle-holders and incense burners. During the Nguyen dynasty (1802-1954), it appeared on very fine Bat Trang flower pots.\n\nThe trade in Vietnamese ceramics was damaged due to the plummet in trade by Cham merchants after the 1471 Vietnamese invasion of Champa. Vietnam's export of ceramics was also damaged by its internal civil war, the Portuguese and Spanish entry into the region and the Portuguese conquest of Malacca which caused an upset in the trading system, while the carracks ships in the Malacca to Macao trade run by the Portuguese docked at Brunei due to good relations between the Portuguese and Brunei after the Chinese permitted Macao to be leased to the Portuguese.\n\nDue to the so-called Nanban trade in the 16th-17th century, fragments of Vietnamese ceramic were found in a northern part of Kyūshū island. Among them was a wooden plate with character showing the date 1330 on it. Whether the Japanese went to Vietnam or Vietnamese traders came to Japan or if it all went through China is not quite clear. Vietnamese history records showed that when Lord Nguyễn Hoàng founded Hội An port at the beginning of the 17th century, hundreds of Japanese residents were already there.\n\nOne of the more famous items is An'nan ware (安南焼), which was exported to Japan and used in Japanese tea ceremony although the high-footed bowls were originally used for food. The bowls had an everted rim, high foot, were underglazed with cobalt floral decorations, lappets above base, unglazed stacking rings in well and were brown washed on the base. The diameters can range from 9 to 15 centimetres. They were produced in the 16th and 17th century.\n\nThe Hội An wreck lies 22 miles off the coast of central Vietnam in the South China Sea. The ship was carrying a large cargo of Vietnamese ceramics from the mid- to late-15th century. The provenance of the pieces was known to be the kilns of the Red River Delta (such as Chu Đậu) because excavations in the region had been ongoing since their discovery in 1983. The only pieces remaining at the kiln sites were wasters (pieces that had fused, collapsed or exploded in the firing process). Intact examples of the wares produced were rare, since all were exported. When the wreck was found there was excitement among collectors and archaeologists, for it promised the first cargo consisting solely of Vietnamese wares.\n\nIn 1996 over 250,000 intact examples of Vietnamese ceramic were recovered. 10% of unique ware was kept by the government for national museums, while the rest was allowed to be auctioned off to pay for recovery costs.\n\nWhile ceramic ware in the traditional style is still being produced and enjoys popularity, increasingly modern ceramics are produced for export. Centres of ceramic production include Lái Thiêu in Southern Vietnam.\n\nOne of the noteworthy examples of modern ceramic art is the Hanoi Ceramic Mosaic Mural, which is affixed on the wall of the dyke system of Hanoi. With a length of about 4 km, the Ceramic Road is one of the major projects that were developed on the occasion of the Millennial Anniversary of Hanoi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37549773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37549773", "title": "Voices of War", "text": "Voices of War\n\nVoices of war: Australians tell their stories from World War I to the present (2006) is a telling of the oral history of the Australian experience of war edited by Michael Caulfield. It is made up of 21 firsthand accounts of Australians involvement with war, from the First World War through to the Iraq War.\n\nThe stories are taken from the 2000 histories recorded by the Australians at War Film Archive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29213337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29213337", "title": "Walerian Krasiński", "text": "Walerian Krasiński\n\nCount Walerian Skorobohaty Krasiński or Valerian Krasinski (1795– 22 December 1855) was a Polish Calvinist politician, nationalist and historian.\n\nKrasinski was a Polish aristocrat in exile after the November Uprising 1830, during the Austrian, German and Russian partition of Poland. In 1844, he was proposed for a chair in Slavonic Studies at Oxford University. In 1848, he presented appeals to the Habsburg government. In \"Russia and Europe, or, The probable consequences of the present war\" he wrote on the Crimean War.\n\nKrasinski's \"Historical sketch of the rise, progress, and decline of the Reformation in Poland\" (1838) still one of main texts on the subject available in English, was written in English. One of Krasinski's main sources is \"Slavonia reformata\" (1679) by Andreas Vengerscius.\n\nHe died in Edinburgh and is buried in the Warriston Cemetery close to another Polish exile, the violinist and composer Feliks Janiewicz, one of the co-organisers of the first Edinburgh Festival. The grave is marked by a tall grey granite obelisk. It lies in the overgrown area (2014) to the south-west, around 50m east of the more accessible monument to Horatio McCulloch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1422478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1422478", "title": "Wave Hill walk-off", "text": "Wave Hill walk-off\n\nWave Hill walk-off or The Gurindji strike was a walk-off and strike by 200 Gurindji stockmen, house servants and their families in August 1966 at Wave Hill cattle station in Kalkarindji (formerly known as Wave Hill), Northern Territory, Australia.\n\nThe Gurindji people's traditional lands are approximately 3,250 km² of the Northern Territory. Gurindji first encountered Europeans in the 1850s, when explorer Augustus Gregory crossed into their territory. Several other explorers traversed the area over the following decades until the early 1880s, when large pastoral operations were established.\n\nWave Hill cattle station, which included the Kalkaringi and Daguragu area, was first stocked in 1883.\n\nGurindji – along with all Aboriginal groups in this predicament – found their waterholes and soakages fenced off or fouled by cattle, which also ate or trampled fragile desert plant life, such as bush tomato. Dingo hunters regularly shot the people's invaluable hunting dogs, and kangaroo, a staple meat, was also routinely shot since it competed with cattle for water and grazing land. Gurindji suffered lethal \"reprisals\" for any attempt to eat the cattle – anything from a skirmish to a massacre. The last recorded massacre in the area occurred at Coniston in 1928. There was little choice to stay alive but to move onto the cattle stations, receive rations, adopt a more sedentary life and, where possible, take work as stockmen and domestic help. If they couldn't continue their traditional way of life, then at least to be on their own land – the foundation for their religion and spiritual beliefs – seemed crucial.\n\nIn 1914, Wave Hill Station was bought by Vesteys, a British pastoral company comprising a large conglomerate of cattle companies owned by Baron Vestey. Pastoralists were able to make use of the now landless Aboriginal people as extremely cheap labour. On stations across the north, Aboriginal people became the backbone of the cattle industry, working for little or no money, minimal food and appalling housing.\n\nThere had been complaints from Indigenous employees about conditions over many years. A Northern Territory government inquiry held in the 1930s said of Vesteys:\n\nIt was obvious that they had been ... quite ruthless in denying their Aboriginal labour proper access to basic human rights.\n\nHowever, little was done over the decades leading up to the strike. While it was illegal up until 1968 to pay Aboriginal workers more than a specified amount in goods and money, a 1945 inquiry found Vesteys was not even paying Aboriginal workers the 5 shillings a day minimum wage set up for Aborigines under a 1918 Ordinance. Non-Indigenous males were receiving £2/8/- a week in 1945. Gurindji lived in corrugated iron humpies without floors, lighting, sanitation, furniture or cooking facilities. Billy Bunter Jampijinpa, who lived on Wave Hill Station at the time said\n\nWe were treated just like dogs. We were lucky to get paid the 50 quid a month we were due, and we lived in tin humpies you had to crawl in and out on your knees. There was no running water. The food was bad – just flour, tea, sugar and bits of beef like the head or feet of a bullock. The Vesteys mob were hard men. They didn't care about blackfellas.\n\nGurindji who received minimal government benefits had these paid into pastoral company accounts over which they had no control. In contrast, non-Aboriginal workers enjoyed minimum wage security with no legal limit on the maximum they could be paid. They were housed in comfortable homes with gardens and had full control over their finances.\n\nOn 23 August 1966, led by spokesman Vincent Lingiari, the workers and their families walked off Wave Hill and began their ten-year strike. Lingiari led Gurindji, as well as Ngarinman, Bilinara, Warlpiri and Mudbara workers to an important sacred site nearby at Wattie Creek (Daguragu). Initially, the action was interpreted as purely a strike against work and living conditions. However, it soon became apparent that it was not just – or even primarily – improved conditions Gurindji were campaigning for. Their primary demand was for return of their land. Novelist Frank Hardy was one of the many non-Indigenous Australians who supported the Gurindji struggle through the strike years as was Darwin based trade unionist Brian Manning.\n\n\"This bin [been] Gurindji country long time before them Vestey mob,\" Vincent Lingiari told Hardy at the time.\n\nWhile Hardy records Pincher Manguari as saying:\n\nWe want them Vestey mob all go away from here. Wave Hill Aboriginal people bin called Gurindji. We bin here long time before them Vestey mob. This is our country, all this bin Gurindji country. Wave Hill bin our country. We want this land; we strike for that.\n\nThe Gurindji strike was not the first or the only demand by Aborigines for the return of their lands – but it was the first one to attract wide public support within Australia for Land Rights.\n\nIn 1968, 60 Aboriginal workers at another Vestey's property, Limbunya, also joined the strike when they walked off the job.\n\nThe Gurindji established a settlement near by at Wattie Creek, which Gurindji have always called Daguragu. These were hard years, but they held strong to their belief in their right to the land.\n\nWhile living at Daguragu, Gurindji drew up maps showing areas they wanted excised from pastoralist land and returned to them. In 1967, Gurindji petitioned the Governor-General, claiming 1,295 km² of land near Wave Hill. Their claim was rejected. While Dagaragu would eventually become the first cattle station to be owned and managed by an Aboriginal community, today known as the Murramulla Gurindji Company, it would be many years before the Gurindji achieved this.\n\nIn this period, Vincent Lingiari, Billy Bunter Jampijinpa and others toured Australia, with the support of workers' unions, to give talks, raise awareness, build support for their cause and have meetings with major lawyers and politicians. Frank Hardy recalled one fundraising meeting at which a donor gave $500 after hearing Vincent Lingiari speak. The donor – who said he had never before met an Aboriginal person – was a young Dr Fred Hollows, the eye surgeon and Communist activist.\n\nBilly Bunter Jampijinpa was 16 at the time of the walk-off:\n\nThe Vesteys mob came and said they would get two killers (slaughtered beasts) and raise our wages if we came back. But old Vincent said, 'No, we're stopping here'. Then in early 1967 we walked to our new promised land, we call it Daguragu (Wattie Creek), back to our sacred places and our country, our new homeland.\n\nIn late 1966 the Northern Territory government offered a compromise pay rise of 125 per cent, but the strikers still demanded wages equal to those of white stockmen and return of their land. The Government also made moves to cut off means of Gurindji obtaining food supplies and threatened evictions. Offers of houses, which the Government had built for them at Wave Hill Welfare settlement, were resisted. The Gurindji persisted with their protest and stayed at Daguragu.\n\nIn 1969 the Liberal-National Country Coalition government was given a proposal to give eight square kilometres back to the Gurindji. Cabinet refused even to discuss the issue.\n\nHowever, the tide of public opinion was beginning to turn in Australia. There were demonstrations and arrests in southern Australia in support of the walk-off, and many church, student and trade union groups gave practical and fundraising support to the Gurindji struggle. Several significant events marked the change in opinion in Australia.\n\nAn overwhelming majority of Australians – over 90 per cent of voters and a majority in all six states – voted \"Yes\" to giving the Federal Government power to make laws for Indigenous Australians.\n\nIn 1972 the Australian Labor Party (ALP) came to power. Aboriginal land rights was an issue high on its agenda, and it was quick to set up an Inquiry, and subsequently draft legislation, to this end. The Labor Government called a halt to development leases granted by the Northern Territory Land Board that might damage Indigenous rights, suspended mining exploration licences, and gave a small grant of land at Daguragu/Wattie Creek, as an initial step towards the final land handback.\n\nThe Whitlam government established the Royal Commission into Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory, headed by Justice Woodward. The Inquiry's task was to examine the legal establishment of land rights. The Commission recommended government financial support for the creation of reserves and incorporated land trusts, administered by traditional owners or land councils.\n\nMeanwhile, the Yolngu of northeast Arnhem Land were taking their grievances to the courts, in the case of Milirrpum v Nabalco, after unsuccessfully petitioning the Commonwealth government with a bark petition. The judge's decision in Gove had relied on the doctrine of \"terra nullius\" to deny the Yolngu rights to their land and ensure the security of a bauxite mine by Nabalco. Coupled with the ongoing Gurindji strike, this case highlighted the very real need for Aboriginal land rights in Australia.\n\nAs a result of the recommendations of the Woodward Inquiry, the Whitlam government drafted the Aboriginal Land Rights Bill. The legislation was not passed by parliament prior to the Whitlam government's dismissal in 1975. The subsequent Fraser government passed effectively similar legislation – the Aboriginal Land Rights Act – on 9 December 1976.\n\nIn 1975, the Labor government of Gough Whitlam finally negotiated with Vesteys to give the Gurindji back a portion of their land. This was a landmark in the land rights movement in Australia for Indigenous Australians. The handback took place on 16 August 1975 at Kalkaringi. Gough Whitlam addressed Vincent Lingiari and the Gurindji people, saying:\n\nMervyn Bishop's photograph of Whitlam pouring sand into Lingiari's hand on that day, has become an iconic one in Australian history.\n\nVincent Lingiari confronted the vast economic and political forces arrayed against him and his people. The walk-off and strike were landmark events in the struggle for Aboriginal land rights in Australia. For the first time recognition was given of Indigenous people, their rights and responsibilities for the land, and their ability to practise their law, language and culture. In August every year, a large celebration is held at Kalkaringi to mark the anniversary of the strike and walk-off. Known as Freedom Day, people gather from many parts of Australia to celebrate and re-enact the walk-off.\n\nIn 2006 an Australian Senate report looked into the matter of underpayment of indigenous workers in the past. A group of those involved in the Wave Hill walk-off have said that they would be prepared to make a reparation claim for underpaid and stolen wages as a test case.\n\nThe walk-off route has been entered on the Australian National Heritage List.\n\nTed Egan wrote the \"Gurindji Blues\" in the 1960s with Vincent Lingiari. The words to the first verse are:\n\nIn 1971 the song was recorded by Galarrwuy Yunupingu, a Yolngu man actively involved in land rights for his own people through the bark petition and Gove land rights case. Ted Egan says he was moved to write \"Gurindji Blues\" after he heard Peter Nixon, then Minister for the Interior, say in parliament that if the Gurindji wanted land, they should save up and buy it, like any other Australian. In 1991, Paul Kelly and Kev Carmody recorded \"From Little Things Big Things Grow\". The words to the first verse are:\n\nThe words to the last verse are:\n\nIrish folk musician Damien Dempsey's song \"Wave Hill Walk Off\" commemorates the Gurindji strike and the struggle for Aboriginal land rights.\n\nThe words to the first verse are:\n\nThe words to the last verse are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18362338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18362338", "title": "Weavers' cottage", "text": "Weavers' cottage\n\nA weavers' cottage was (and to an extent is) a type of house used by weavers for cloth production in the putting-out system sometimes known as the domestic system.\n\nWeavers' cottages were common in Great Britain, often with dwelling quarters on the lower floors and loom-shop on the top floor. Cellar loomshops on the ground floor or in the basement were found where cotton was woven, as they provided high humidity. A loom-shop can be often recognised by a long row of windows which provided maximum light for the weaver.\n\nMedieval period peasants' cottages have rarely survived, while the prestigious dwellings of merchants and traders are still in evidence. The urban poor manufactured items in the living area of their cottages. The rural poor, bound to the land owner, worked in one of their master's buildings. With the rise of a non-agrarian society, subsistence level domestic manufacture became common, and the introduction of machinery required either the living room to be enlarged and modified or the addition of a separate room. Requirements were similar for any domestic manufacturing craft industry.\n\nIn a rural home the living room was enlarged so the weaver could benefit from heat from the single hearth. To provide enough light to operate a loom, a long window of up to ten lights occupied one wall. Alternatively, an extra storey was added so that manufacture was separated from family life. The loom shop was marked by the long multi-light mullioned window that became common in urban settings. Three-storey terraced cottages are now referred to as Weavers' cottages.\n\nMost extant cottages in the north-west date from the late-18th and early-19th century when weaving had ceased to be a sideline. They were adapted or built specially at a time when spinning technology was sufficiently advanced to supply the needs of the weavers. Wool and silk manufacture were slower to adopt power driven looms than the cotton industry. Terraces of three-storey brick-built domestic workshops were built in Macclesfield after silk weaving was introduced around 1790 and more than 600 weavers had looms in their homes in 1825. Domestic workshops for velvet cutting survived in the Cadishead area until 1914.\n\nTo be an efficient manufacturing facility, a loomshop needed good daylight, controlled ventilation, un-obstructed space, provision for storage, heat, and access for goods and workers. Hand looms were manual, the artisan raised the heddles using foot levers, and threw the shuttle the width of the loom by hand, forward and back. The left hand was used to operate the batten that compressed the pick. Broader cloth could not be woven this way, so the weaver used a child to throw back the shuttle. John Kay's flying shuttle of 1733, removed the need for the child. The weaver jerked the two hammers or pickers with a picking stick held in the right hand. The pickers propelled the shuttle, and the left hand operated the batten.\n\nA loom shop would either be built as an attached shed entered from outside or as a garret above the house entered through a trap-door from below or by external stairs to minimize disruption when a new beam was brought in. Animal fibres (wool, silk) did not need sizing so considerations of humidity were unimportant. It was usual for a loomshop to contain three or four looms which were worked by members of the family. In the house below was a kitchen and scullery and living room on the ground floor and two bedrooms on the first, a typical two-up-two-down cottage. Sometimes a row of cottages would have a common loom-shop above, allowing several looms to be worked.\n\nIt was believed that artisan weavers wove cloth during poor weather and worked on their land when possible. It is more likely that some weavers worked full-time at the loom, breaking off to help their neighbours during the harvest. Some smallholders were weavers to supplement their main income. Full-time weavers tended to cluster in rows of cottages forming a hamlet while the smallholders cottage was likely to be solitary.\n\nThe man of the house was the most productive and worked full-time, his wife shared her time between the loom and childcare. Unmarried children were employed and trained on the job.\n\nBy the end of the 17th century three localised areas of textile production could be identified in Lancashire. Linen was woven in the west of the county and in Manchester while in upland Pennine regions, woollens were woven and in central Lancashire the emphasis was on fustians, cloth made with a linen warp and wool weft. In central Lancashire weavers subsequently switched to calico, cloth with a cotton warp and a cotton weft. In the 1790s, the demand for calico expanded and more towns switched to cotton weaving producing cloth for the emerging printing industry.\nWeaving cotton requires humid conditions and cotton needed to be sized, strands of warp thread were coated with a layer of paste to prevent chafing against the healds and reeds in the batten. If the size hardened it broke the thread. Loomshops were built in the basement or on the ground floor. The weavers kept the floor beneath the loom moist, sometimes by digging channels into the clay floor and pouring in water. The loomshop was entered through the family accommodation so humidity was not lost to the outside. In such a cottage, one ground floor room became the manufactory, and the family lived in the other, a kitchen living room. Sometimes a basement was excavated beneath the family home lit by elongated windows. The term 'cellar loomshop' was used for both ground floor and basement establishments.\n\nIn the peak years of handloom weaving around 1820, there were 170,000 handloom weavers in Lancashire. The 1851 census recorded 55,000 hand loom weavers in the county while the 1861 census records 30,000 and the 1871 census 10,000. By 1891, few were left. The figures give some indication of number of weavers cottages that existed. It is probable that there would be four looms in each shop. \n\nAt the time of rapid urbanisation, rows of terraced houses were constructed to accommodate the new urban workers. In East Anglia detached cottages were built from timber and cob, while woollen weaving communities favoured three-storey two-up two-down with a loom shop above.\n\nThe loomshop design was adequate until power was needed and in a sense the early weaving sheds were extended loom shops.\n\nIn 1884, Vincent van Gogh made a series of drawings and paintings of rural artisan weavers and the loomshops in their cottages. Van Gogh was interested in the \"meditative appearance\" of the weavers. \"A weaver who has to direct and to interweave a great many little threads has no time to philosophize about it, but rather he is so absorbed in his work that he doesn't think but acts, and he feels how things must go more than he can explain it.\" he wrote in 1883.\nBy then rural weaving was not a prosperous trade; income varied dramatically depending upon crop yields for material and market conditions. Weavers were living a poor life, especially in comparison to urban centers of textile manufacturing nearby such as Leiden. The rural artisan's livelihood had become increasingly precarious.\n\nVan Gogh wrote to his brother Theo, \"Their life is hard. A weaver who stays hard at work makes a piece of about 60 yards a week. While he weaves, his wife has to sit before him, winding – in other words, winding the spools of yarn – so there are two of them who work and have to make a living from it.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34693389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34693389", "title": "Yousef Ghawanmeh", "text": "Yousef Ghawanmeh\n\nYousef Darwish Ghawanmeh (born 1935 in Irbid) is a Jordanian historian, anthropologist, professor and author.\n\nHe was born in the village of Saham Al-Kefarat north of the city of Irbid. He received his elementary education in his village before moving to the city of Irbid where he graduated high school, he then earned his Bachelor’s and master's degree from Alexandria University and his Doctorate and Post-Doctorate from Princeton University in the United States. His works focus on the cultural and political history of Jordan during the Islamic periods. He published more than 30 books.\n\nHis works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2459747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2459747", "title": "Yugra", "text": "Yugra\n\nYugra or Iuhra (Old Russian Югра \"Jugra\"; Byzantine Greek Οὔγγροι \"Oὔggroi\") was a collective name for lands and peoples between the Pechora River and Urals (modern north-west Russia), in the Russian annals of the 12th–17th Centuries. During this period the region was inhabited by the name of the Khanty (a.k.a. Ostyaks; \"Hanty\") and Mansi (Vogul; \"Maansi\") peoples. Yugra was also the source for the name of the Ugric language family (including both the \"Hantĩ\" and \"Mān'si\" languages).\n\nThe modern Khanty–Mansi Autonomous Okrug is also sometimes known as Yugra.\n\nThe 12th century missionary and traveller Abu Hamid al-Gharnati gives one of the earliest accounts of the region, which he calls \"Yura\" in Arabic:\n\n\"But beyond Wisu by the Sea of Darkness there lies a land known by the name of \"Yura\". In summers the days are very long there, so that the Sun does not set for forty days, as the merchants say; but in winters the nights are equally long. The merchants report that Darkness is not far (from them), and that the people of Yura go there and enter it with torches, and find a huge tree there which is like a big village. But on top of the tree there sits a large creature, they say it is a bird. And they bring merchandise along, and each merchant sets down his goods apart from those of the others; and he makes a mark on them and leaves, but when he comes back, he finds commodities there, necessary for his own country…\" (Al Garnati:32)\n\nThe Golden Lady of the Obians was apparently an idol of the Yugrans. The first reports of the Golden Lady are found in the 14th-century Novgorod Chronicles, with reference to Saint Stephan of Perm. Next, the golden idol is mentioned in the 16th century by the subjects of the Grand Duke of Moscow, commissioned to describe the trade and military routes of the expanding Russia. The first non-Russian we know of to comment on the golden lady is Maciej Miechowita, Professor of Cracow University. The golden idol appeared on Sigismund von Herberstein's map of Moscovia published in 1549, and on a number of later maps, e.g. Gerhard Mercator's \" (1595)\", where it is labeled \"Zolotaia Baba\" (from Russian - \"Golden Lady\" or \"Golden Idol\").\n\nIn connection with Yermak's campaign, the \"Siberian Chronicle\" also tells us about the golden woman: a hetman of Yermak's, by the name of Ivan Bryazga, invaded the Belogorye region in 1582 and fought the Ob-Ugrians there, who were defending their holiest object - the golden woman. (See Karjalainen 1918:243-245, Shestalov 1987:347.) And Grigori Novitski's statement that in earlier days there used to be in one shrine in Belogorye together with the \"copper goose\" \"the greatest real idol\", and that the superstitious people \"preserved that idol and took it to Konda now that idol-worshipping is being rooted up\", has also been regarded as relating to the golden woman (Novitski:61). Actually, no European has ever seen that idol and most probably it never existed in the described form (as a full-length woman made of gold).\n\nOf the \"Copper Goose\" Novitski wrote the following:\n\n\"The goose idol very much worshipped by them is cast of copper in the shape of a goose, its atrocious abode is in the Belogorye village on the great river of Ob. According to their superstition they worship the god of waterfowls - swans, geese and other birds swimming on water… His throne in the temple is made of different kinds of broadcloth, canvas and hide, built like a nest; in it sits the monster who is always highly revered, most of all at the times of catching waterfowls in nests… This idol is so notorious that people come from distant villages to perform atrocious sacrifice to it - offering cattle, mainly horses; and they are certain that it (the idol) is the bearer of many goods, mainly ensuring the richness of waterfowls…\" \n\nComparisons of different Yugran traditions indicate that the goose was one of the shapes or appearances of the most popular god of the \"World Surveyor Man\", and that Belogorye is still sometimes referred to as his home. Novitsky also describes a site for worshipping this \"World Surveyor\" or \"Ob Master\":\n\n\"The home of the Ob Master was presumably near the stronghold Samarovo in the mouth of the river Irtysh. According to their heathen belief he was the god of the fish, depicted in a most impudent manner: a board of wood, nose like a tin tube, eyes of glass, little horns on top of the head, covered with rags, attired in a (gilt breasted) purple robe. Arms - bows, arrows, spears, armour, etc - were laid beside him. According to their heathen belief they say about the collected arms that he often has to fight in the water and conquer other vassals. The frenzy ones thought that the atrocious monster is especially horrifying in the darkness and in the large waters, that he comes through all the depths where he watches over all fish and aquatic animals and gives everyone as much as he pleases.\" (Novitsky: 59).\n\nThe Christianization of the Mansi en masse started at the beginning of the 18th century. Novitsky describes the Christianization of the Pelym Mansi in 1714 and the Konda Mansi in 1715. The words of the village elder and the caretaker of the sanctuary Nahratch Yeplayev have been recorded:\n\n\"We all know why you have come here -- you want to pervert us from our ancient beliefs with your smooth-tongued flattery and damage and destroy our revered helper, but it is all in vain for you may take our heads but this we will not let you do.\" (Novitsky: 92-93)\n\nNovitsky describes the above-mentioned idol as follows:\n\n\"The idol was carved of wood, attired in green clothes, the evil looking face was covered with white iron, a black fox skin was placed on its head; the whole sanctuary, especially his site which was higher than anywhere else, was decorated with purple broadcloth. Other smaller idols nearby which were placed lower were called the servants of the real idol. I think there were many other things in front of him - caftans, squirrel skins, etc…\" (Ibid.: 93)\n\nIt seems that a compromise was reached whereby the idols would be saved - for now at least - and at last Nahratsh who had consulted the elders of the village proposed a compromise:\n\nThis arrangement seems to have lasted for a while, but later it is recorded that this agreement was broken and the totems and idols so sacred to the Mansi and Khanty were burned by Russian Christian zealots. Many of these totems were not destroyed, but were hidden, their locations kept secret over the generations. Even during repression in the 1930s many of these sacred sites remained undiscovered by the authorities and some can be found today.\n\nThere are three or four known proto-states of the Yugran inhabitants, both Khanty and Mansi. The Principality of Pelym (largely Khanty) was located in the basin of the Konda river and stretched from the mouth of the Sosva River near Tavda up to Tabory. The stronghold of the Pelym princes was also a significant religious centre; a sacred Siberian larch grew in its surroundings and even in the 18th century people used to hang the skins of sacrificed horses on its branches. Near the sacred tree was a worship storehouse with five idols of human figure, and smaller storehouses with high pillars and human-faced peaks around it for storing sacrificial instruments. The bones of sacrificial animals were stored in a separate building (Novitski: 81). The Principality of Konda (mainly Mansi) formed a large semi autonomous part of the Pelym principality, according to the tax registers from 1628/29 it was inhabited by 257 tax-paying Mansi. The treasures of Prince \"Agai of Konda\" who was imprisoned by the Russians in 1594 gives us a good picture of the wealth of the Yugran nobles of this period. Namely, the Russians confiscated two silver crowns, a silver spoon, a silver beaker, a silver spiral bracelet, \"precious drapery\" and numerous pelts and precious furs (Bahrushin 1955,2: 146). The third part of the Pelym principality was the region of Tabary, in which inhabited 102 adults in 1628/29. Preceding the coming of the Russians the Mansi of this region were farmers and according to the tradition Yermak collected tribute in the form of grain (Bahrushin 1955,2: 147).\n\nIt is believed that the Yugran people or Ob-Ugrians had made trade with many countries far and wide since the earliest times. This trade was described in journals attributed to Abu Hamid al-Gharnati the Arab traveller during the 12th century:\n\nAccording to some sources, Novgorod launched military campaigns against the Yugrans \"living with the Samoyeds in the Land of Midnight\" already at the end of the first millennium (Bahrushin 1955,1:86). At that time, the Russians probably came into contact with the Mansi who were still living in Europe, along the upper course of the river Pechora, in the neighbourhood of the ancient Komi realm of Great Perm. The Novgorod Chronicle tells of a military campaign under the leadership of \"Yadrei of Novgorod\" in 1193, which ended in the destruction of the Novgorod forces. The defeat was blamed on some Novgorodans who had reportedly \"been in contact with the Yugrans\" (Bahrushin 1955,1:75). In the 13th to 15th centuries, Yugra was supposed to pay tribute to Novgorod. But taxes could be collected only by means of armed forces. The chronicles describe several campaigns, mentioning the strong resistance of Yugran princes who took shelter in their strongholds. After the annexation of Ustyug by Moscow in the 14th century, Muscovite campaigns began instead of the Novgorodan ones.\n\nIn the 15th century, the most important Russian stronghold in Permland and the starting point for all expeditions going to the East was the diocese established on the Vym River by Stephan of Perm. In 1455 the Mansi of Pelym launched a campaign under the command of \"Prince Asyka\". Moscow reciprocated by forming an alliance with Prince Vasily of Great Perm who together with the warriors of Vym who took part in the 1465 expedition to Yugra (Bahrushin 1955,1:76). It is recorded in the Russian Chronicles that in 1465 as a result of this raid that two minor \"Yugrian\" princes named \"Kalpik\" and \"Chepik\" were compelled to submit to the Russians and pay tribute. They were soon deposed. In a second campaign during 1467 Prince Asyka himself was captured and brought to Vyatka (Bahrushin 1955,2:113). In 1483 Moscow sent forth another expedition against the princes of Yugra and Konda where the \"grand duke\" Moldan was captured (Ibid). In 1499 Moscow dispatched a great force against \"Yugra\" (Pelym) (led by Prince \"Semyon Kurbski\"), Konda or \"Koda\" (led by Prince \"Pyotr Ushatyi\" and the \"Gogulichi\" (the free Voguls or Mansi), The 4000 strong army, using dog and reindeer teams, reached the Lyapin stronghold of the Khanty, located on the river of the same name (Bahrushin 1955,1:76-77). In the source it is told that 40 strongholds were taken and 58 Khanty and Mansi princes captured in the expedition. Even though already at the end of the 15th century the Grand Duke of Moscow assumed the honorary title of \"Prince of Yugra\" by the 16th century several Yugran princes were paying tribute to the Siberia Khanate and participated in their military ventures against Russian settlers protected by Cossacks and Komi auxiliaries who were chasing the Yugran natives from their homes.\n\nIn response the Khanty and Mansi of Pelym continually sent forth counter-campaigns to the lands of Great Perm. Thus, the year 1581 went into history as the year of the raiding of Kaigorod and Cherdyn. According to Russian estimates, the army of the Mansi and their allies, the Tartars, stood 700 strong (Bahrushin 1955,1:99; 2:144). Continuing resistance to border conflagration led to the launching of a campaign in 1582–1584 arranged and financed by the Stroganovs and led by the Cossack leader Yermak Timofeyevich, which began with the destruction of a Mansi war band that had invaded the Russian settlers territory and ended as a punitive expedition against the Pelym Mansi and their ally the Siberian Khan. In some sources, \"Alach, Prince of Koda\" figures as an important ally of the Siberian Khan Kuchum Khan and is said to have been awarded one of the Yermak mail-coats taken from the enemy (Bahrushin 1955, 1:114). In 1592, another Russian campaign against the Mansi of Pelym was launched. It ended in 1593 when the stronghold of Prince Ablegirim of Pelym was taken, the prince and his family captured and a Russian fortress erected in the heart of the stronghold. Although in the following year the Pelym principality suffered the loss of its lands lying on the Konda River, the Mansi did not give up resistance. In 1599, they once again brought \"war, theft and treachery\" to the banks of the Chusovaya River and Kurya River and plundered the Russian settlements there (Bahrushin,2:143-144).\n\nThe close connections between the Yugrans and the Turkic Tartars are also demonstrated by the fact that even in the 1660s, the idea of restoring the Kuchum Khanate was still popular with the Khanty of Beryozovo (Ibid). It was only in the middle of the 17th century that Moscow succeeded in subduing Yugra.\n\nIn the 18th century the successors of the Principality of Pelym and Principality of Konda - princes Vassili and Fyodor - lived in Pelym. They became Russianized and performed various duties for the Tsarist government. The Mansi, however, considered them still as their rulers. The fact that the ancient family of princes ruled on in Konda is also proved by a tsar letter from 1624:\n\nYugra is also considered to be the place of origin of the Hungarians (in Hungarian \"magyar őshaza\"). It is thought that the name \"Hungary\" is a variety of the name Yugra (The Hungarians also were known in several languages under the name of \"Ugri\", and are still known under this name in Ukrainian). \"Hungary\" is also said to derive from On-Ogur, meaning \"Ten Ugors\" or \"Hun Ugors\". The word Ugor itself may be of Turkic origin meaning \"tribe\". The Hungarian language is also the closest linguistic relative of Khanty and Mansi. It is considered that Hungarians moved from Yugra to the west, first settling on the western side of the Urals, in the region known as \"Magna Hungaria\" (Great Yugria). Then they moved further to the west, to the region of \"Levédia\" (present-day east Ukraine), then to the region of \"Etelköz\" (present-day west Ukraine), finally reaching the Carpathian Basin in the 9th century.\n\n\n"}
