{"id": "44178744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44178744", "title": "2012 TC4", "text": "2012 TC4\n\nData from JPL 60 solution date 3 November 2017\n\n was discovered on 4 October 2012 at apparent i-band magnitude 20.1 while the asteroid was from Earth. It came within 0.000634 AU (0.247 LD, 94,800 km, 58,900 mi) from Earth on 12 October 2012.\n\nDuring the 2012 close approach, the asteroid only had an observation arc of 7 days, between 4 and 11 October 2012, so the exact distance of the 2017 closest approach was poorly constrained. With the 7 day observation arc, the asteroid had a 3-sigma chance of passing between 0.00008818 and 0.002896 AU (0.034 to 1.127 LD, 13,200–433,200 km, 8,200–269,200 mi) from Earth on 12 October 2017. Astronomers were certain that it would not pass closer than 6,800 km from the surface of Earth, ruling out any possibility that it could hit the Earth in 2017.\n\nOn 12 October 2017 at 5:42 UT, the asteroid passed from Earth. Observations between July and October reduced the uncertainty region from several hundred thousand kilometers to about ±140 meters. The asteroid was removed from the Sentry Risk Table on 16 October 2017 using JPL solution #56. Prior to the encounter, it was rated −4.11 on the Palermo scale, with a 1 in 1,000 chance of impact over the next hundred years.\n\nPaul Chodas of NASA's Center for near-Earth Object Studies, and Vishnu Reddy of the University of Arizona's Lunar and Planetary Laboratory, viewed the 2017 flyby (inside of the orbit of the Moon) as a way to test and refine the global asteroid detection and tracking network designed to give warning of objects heading toward Earth. Reddy coordinated the effort, involving over a dozen institutions worldwide. In addition to the observation campaign, NASA used this exercise to test communications between the many observers and also to test internal U.S. government messaging and communications up through the executive branch and across government agencies, as it would during an actual predicted impact emergency. Results of the campaign were published on 3 November 2017.\n\nThe asteroid remained too faint to be recovered with automated astronomical surveys until early September, but a more targeted observation with the Very Large Telescope recovered it on 27 July 2017 at apparent magnitude 26.8, while the asteroid was from Earth, making it one of the dimmest asteroid recoveries ever. As such, has become the first known asteroid ever to be observed passing less than 1 Lunar distance from Earth twice in a row. At the time of recovery the asteroid was about 100 million times fainter than what can be seen with the naked eye and 500 times fainter than when it was discovered in 2012. As a result of the 2017 recovery observations, it was known that on 12 October 2017 at 5:42 UT, the asteroid would pass from Earth. Then at 19:19 UT, the asteroid would pass from the Moon. peaked at about apparent magnitude 12.9, and was too faint to be seen without a telescope. The Earth approach of 2017 increased the asteroid's orbital period from 1.67 years to 2.06 years.\n\nStudies of the asteroid's light curve in October 2012, found it to have a rotation period of 0.2038 hours (or 12 minutes and 14 seconds) with a brightness variation of 0.93 magnitude (), which is indicative for a non-spherical shape. is a fast rotator, which is rather typical for its small size. The fastest rotator currently known is 2014 RC, a similarly-sized NEO, with a period of only 16 seconds.\nLightcurves obtained during the 2017 encounter confirmed that is in a non-principal axis rotation, commonly known as tumbling. The spin axis varies on timescales of minutes, with a second period of 0.142 hours (or 8.5 minutes). The lightcurve amplitude suggests a ratio of largest to smallest axis of at least 2.3.\n\nRadar images were taken from Goldstone Observatory and Green Bank Telescope on 12 October 2017. The delay-doppler images had a range resolution of 1.9 meters/pixel, the highest resolution ever obtained using Goldstone transmissions. The images showed that was a very elongated object about 50 feet (15 meters) long and roughly 25 feet (8 meters) wide. The high circular polarization ratio found for is consistent with results seen from E- and V-type NEAs previously. Observations from Arecibo Observatory were planned, but had to be cancelled due to damage to the observatory as a result of Hurricane Maria.\n\nThe spectrum of is that of an E- or Xe-type asteroid. E-type asteroids tend to have a high albedo (>0.30). This agrees with the albedo of 0.35 found for . This type of asteroids is commonly found in the inner Main Belt.\n\nAs a result of 's frequent approaches to Earth, its orbit changes significantly over short periods of only decades. Its two observed close approaches and their effects are shown below:\nBetween 2012 and 2017, 's average distance from the sun increased by almost 0.4 AU, with the time it takes to orbit the sun increasing by 250 days. Its closest approach to the Sun also increased significantly, from 90% of the Earth's distance to the Sun to 97%, and its inclination lowered slightly, going from 1.4 degrees to less than 1/2 a degree relative to Earth's orbit.\n\nAs a result of non-gravitational forces such as the Yarkovsky effect on small bodies, it is difficult to constrain its orbit more than a few decades into the past or future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41529235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41529235", "title": "2014 AA", "text": "2014 AA\n\n2014 AA was a small Apollo near-Earth asteroid roughly 2–4 meters in diameter that struck Earth on 2 January 2014. It was discovered on 1 January 2014 by Richard Kowalski at the Mount Lemmon Survey at an apparent magnitude of 19 using a reflecting telescope at Mount Lemmon Observatory. 2014 AA was only observed over a short observation arc of about 70 minutes, and entered Earth's atmosphere about 21 hours after discovery. Nonetheless it remains one of only a few asteroids observed before impact (see Asteroid impact prediction).\n\nUsing a poorly determined orbit, the JPL Small-Body Database listed a 3-sigma solution with impact occurring around 2 January 2014 02:33 UT ± 1 hour and 5 minutes. The Minor Planet Center listed impact as occurring around 2 January 2014 05:00 UT ± 10 hours. Independent calculations by Bill Gray, the Minor Planet Center and Steve Chesley at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory verified that impact was virtually certain.\n\nThe impactor would have been roughly the size of , which exploded above the Nubian Desert in Sudan on 7 October 2008. Calculations by Chesley suggest the impactor fell somewhere on an arc extending from Central America to East Africa, with a best-fit location just off the coast of West Africa. Calculations by Pasquale Tricarico using the nominal orbit show that 2014 AA entered Earth's shadow cone approximately 40 minutes before entering the atmosphere.\n\nInfrasound was detected by three stations of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization. Peter Brown and Petrus Jenniskens located weak signals from infrasound stations in Bolivia, Brazil and Bermuda. 2014 AA entered Earth's atmosphere around 03:06 ± 5 min UT, 3,000 km from Caracas, Venezuela, far from any landmass. No ships or planes reported witnessing the event. A recalculation of the impact parameters of this meteor based on infrasound recordings gives a longitude of impact of nearly 44º West and a latitude of 11º North, the impact time being 2456659.618 JD UTC. Extensive numerical simulations indicate that, prior to impact, 2014 AA was subjected to a number of secular resonances and it may have followed a path similar to those of the NEOs , , , and ; NEOs in this transient group experience close encounters with the Earth-Moon system at perihelion and Mars at aphelion and could be a dynamical family.\n\nKowalski previously discovered , the first asteroid discovered before Earth impact, using the same telescope in October 2008. There are about a billion near-Earth objects in the size range of 2014 AA, and impacts of comparably-sized objects occur several times each year.\n\nSeveral years later, 2018 LA was also discovered by the Mount Lemmon Survey, and ended up impacting Earth in southern Botswana in June 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38527334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38527334", "title": "5 Gyres", "text": "5 Gyres\n\nThe 5 Gyres Institute is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization that focuses on reducing plastics pollution by focusing on primary research. Programs concentrate on science, education and adventure (research expeditions for citizen-scientists). Since 2017, 5 Gyres has been in special consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council. The organization's 2015 Expedition was featured in the 2017 documentary \"Smog of the Sea,\" produced by Jack Johnson, who participated in the voyage.\n\n5 Gyres was founded by Anna Cummins and Marcus Eriksen. Eriksen and Cummins have been featured speakers at universities and in news stories. Anna Cummins has also been awarded the Golden Goody Award, during a meeting of the Los Angeles chapter of the USNC for UN WOMEN First Annual Special Assembly. Before founding 5 Gyres, Cummins and Eriksen had worked at the Algalita Marine Research Foundation, with founder Charles J. Moore, who is currently a scientific advisor for 5 Gyres.\n\nAs of 2016, the organization is helmed by Rachel Lincoln Sarnoff; she is the former Executive Director of Healthy Child Healthy World, which is now a program of the Environmental Working Group.\n\n5 Gyres was one of two organizations that sent Expeditions to research the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. 5 Gyres presented their results at the Aquarium of the Pacific and were cited as a source for estimating the size of the gyres. 5 Gyres explained their activities at a National Aquarium radio broadcast, were featured at the Two Oceans Aquarium website, and prepared tips on how to reduce plastic consumption. 5 Gyres also worked with environmental artist Marina DeBris in using trashion to help raise awareness of ocean trash.\n\n5 Gyres was the first organization to research plastic pollution in all five main subtropical gyres and first to determine how much plastic is on the surface of the world's oceans: Nearly 270,000 metric tons and 5.25 trillion pieces. They published this research as the Global Estimate of Plastic Pollution in 2014, which will update again in 2018. Historically, the group has presented traveling exhibits, including stops at universities and educational discussions; in 2016 their education presentations reached 3,000 students through the \"Every Kid in a Park\" program.\n\nIn 2012, 5 Gyres was first to discover that plastic microbeads (commonly found in personal care products like toothpaste and exfoliating soaps) were polluting our waterways. 5 Gyres used that study to help forge a coalition that convinced companies like Procter & Gamble, Johnson & Johnson and L’Oreal to phase out plastic microbeads. After only two years, the campaign scaled into a national movement, culminating in a watershed victory when President Obama signed the Microbead-Free Waters Act into law at the end of 2015.\n\nThis win underscored 5 Gyres’ model of using science to drive solutions, and informed the organization's approach to raising awareness about polystyrene and Styrofoam plastic pollution through their 2017 Action Campaign, which:\n\n\nWith more than 100 communities in California recently enacting polystyrene bans, and a statewide ban on the ballot for 2018, 5 Gyres sees polystyrene as a natural extension of the momentum that began with microbeads.\n\n"}
{"id": "8113846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8113846", "title": "Abrasion (geology)", "text": "Abrasion (geology)\n\nAbrasion is a process of erosion which occurs when material being transported wears away at a surface over time. It is the process of friction caused by scuffing, scratching, wearing down, marring, and rubbing away of materials. The intensity of abrasion depends on the hardness, concentration, velocity and mass of the moving particles. Abrasion generally occurs four ways. Glaciation slowly grinds rocks picked up by ice against rock surfaces. Solid objects transported in river channels make abrasive surface contact with the bed and walls. Objects transported in waves breaking on coastlines cause abrasion. And, finally, abrasion can be caused by wind transporting sand or small stones against surface rocks.\n\nAbrasion, under its strictest definition, is commonly confused with attrition. Both abrasion and attrition refer to the wearing down of an object. Abrasion occurs as a result of two surfaces rubbing against each other resulting in the wearing down of one or both of the surfaces. However, attrition refers to the breaking off of particles (erosion) which occurs as a result of objects hitting against each other. Abrasion leads to surface-level destruction over time, whereas attrition results in more change at a faster rate. Today, the geomorphology community uses the term \"abrasion\" in a looser way, often interchangeably with the term \"wear\".\n\nAbrasion in a stream or river channel occurs when the sediment carried by a river scours the bed and banks, contributing significantly to erosion. In addition to chemical weathering and the physical weathering of hydraulic action, freeze-thaw cycles (see frost weathering), and more, there is a suite of processes which have long been considered to contribute significantly to bedrock channel erosion include plucking, abrasion (due to both bedload and suspended load), solution, and cavitation.\n\nBedload transport consists of mostly larger clasts, which cannot be picked up by the velocity of the stream flow, rolling, sliding, and/or saltating (bouncing) downstream along the bed. Suspended load typically refers to smaller particles, such as silt, clay, and finer grain sands uplifted by processes of sediment transport. Grains of various sizes and composition are transported differently in terms of the threshold flow velocities required to dislodge and deposit them, as is modeled in the Hjulström curve. These grains polish and scour the bedrock and banks when they make abrasive contact.\n\nCoastal abrasion occurs as breaking ocean waves containing sand and larger fragments erode the shoreline or headland. The hydraulic action of waves contributes heavily. This removes material, resulting in undercutting and possible collapse of unsupported overhanging cliffs. This erosion can threaten structure or infrastructure on coastlines, and the impact will very likely increase as global warming increases sea level rise. Seawalls are sometimes built in defense, but in many locations, conventional coastal engineering solutions such as sea walls are increasingly challenged and their maintenance may become unsustainable due to changes in climate conditions, sea-level rise, land subsidence, and sediment supply.\n\nAbrasion platforms are shore platforms where wave action abrasion is a prominent process. If it is currently being fashioned, it will be exposed only at low tide, but there is a possibility that the wave-cut platform will be hidden sporadically by a mantle of beach shingle (the abrading agent). If the platform is permanently exposed above the high-water mark, it is probably a raised beach platform (aka, marine terrace), which is not considered a product of abrasion, but may be undercut by abrasion as sea level rises.\n\nGlacial abrasion is the surface wear achieved by individual clasts, or rocks of various sizes, contained within ice or by subglacial sediment as the glacier slides over bedrock (Krabbendam & Glasser 2011). Abrasion can crush smaller grains or particles and remove grains or multigrain fragments, but the removal of larger fragments is classified as plucking (or quarrying), the other major erosion source from glaciers. Plucking creates the debris at the base or sides of the glacier that causes abrasion. While plucking has generally been thought of as a greater force of geomorphological change, there is evidence that in softer rocks with wide joint spacing that abrasion can be just as efficient. A smooth, polished surface is left behind by glacial abrasion, sometimes with glacial striations, which provide information about the mechanics of abrasion under temperate glaciers\n\nMuch consideration has been given to the role of wind as an agent of geomorphological change on Earth and other planets (Greely & Iversen 1987). Aeolian processes involve wind eroding materials, such as exposed rock, and moving particles through the air to contact other materials and deposit them elsewhere. Mathematical models of these forces are notably similar to models in fluvial environments. Aeolian processes demonstrate their most notable consequences in arid regions of sparse vegetation and abundant unconsolidated sediments, such as sand. There is now evidence that bedrock canyons, landforms traditionally thought to evolve only from the fluvial forces of flowing water, may indeed be extended by the aeolian forces of wind, perhaps even amplifying bedrock canyon incision rates by an order of magnitude above fluvial abrasion rates. Redistribution of materials by wind occurs at multiple geographic scales and can have important consequences for regional ecology and landscape evolution.\n"}
{"id": "58906217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58906217", "title": "Amy C. Clement", "text": "Amy C. Clement\n\nAmy C. Clement is an atmospheric and marine scientist studying and modeling global climate change. Her research focuses on cloud albedo feedbacks, ocean circulation patterns, and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO). She is currently a professor at University of Miami's Rosenfield School.\n\nClement was born in Boston, Massachusetts but moved to Long Island, New York shortly after, where she spent most of her adolescent life. Clement attended Columbia College where she received a B.A. in Physics. She received her Ph.D from the Earth and Environmental Science program at Columbia University. Her studies continued at the University of Pierre and Marie Currie in Paris, France where she conducted her postdoctoral work. Growing up, Clement's parents, who worked as an engineer and a writer respectively, held high expectations for their children to do something important. She was therefore drawn to science as a young child, volunteering in labs to extend her curiosity of science.\n\nClement is a climate scientist studying atmospheric and oceanic interactions related to climate change. She studies the physics of climate modeling, and strives to understand the mechanisms of climate change to refine a global climate model. Clement is currently a professor at University of Miami's Rosenfield School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences. She is involved in a long term project focused on understanding the importance of tropical regions in paleoclimate for her global climate model. One of Clements primary research topics focuses on the role of the cloud albedo feedback in a warming climate. Her studies examine low-altitude clouds, which are capable of reflecting incoming solar radiation back into space. She studies the relationship between the cover of these clouds and the rate of warming to examine the role of clouds. Clements findings support this theory in that as climate and oceans warm, low laying clouds form less frequently, which lowers the albedo of the earth (more infrared radiation is absorbed rather than reflected), leading to a warmer climate with less clouds. As most in of her research, these findings support a positive feedback warming cycle in climate. Additionally, Clement has conducted significant research on the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), which is known to play a large role in the climate system. Clement and her researchers somewhat controversially suggest that atmospheric and ocean dynamics need not be connected in order to understand tropical climate and their associated global patterns.\n\nShe was awarded the James B Macelwane Medal in 2007. The Macelwane Medal is presented to young scientists who has made significant contributions in the realm of geophysical sciences. Clement was nominated for this award because of her research in tropical atmospheric and ocean dynamics. In conducting this research, she focused on how the atmosphere and ocean interact with both orbital changes and the thermohaline circulation system.\n\n\nClement has earned several awards throughout her career for her intellectual leadership and mentoring success.\n\n\nClement practices surfing in Miami, Florida. Additionally, Clement is part of a public research group involving students from University of Miami. Clement is now married and has two children.\n"}
{"id": "1985938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985938", "title": "Aspen parkland", "text": "Aspen parkland\n\nAspen parkland refers to a very large area of transitional biome between prairie and boreal forest in two sections, namely the Peace River Country of northwestern Alberta crossing the border into British Columbia, and a much larger area stretching from central Alberta, all across central Saskatchewan to south central Manitoba and continuing into a small part of the US state of Minnesota. Aspen parkland consists of groves of aspen poplars and spruce interspersed with areas of prairie grasslands, also intersected by large stream and river valleys lined with aspen-spruce forests and dense shrubbery. This is the largest boreal-grassland transition zone in the world and is a zone of constant competition and tension as prairie and woodlands struggle to overtake each other within the parkland.\n\nThis article focuses on this biome in North America. Similar biomes also exist in Russia north of the steppes (forest steppe) and in northern Europe.\n\nAccording to the Ecological Framework of Canada, published in 1999, the Aspen Parkland ecoregion (#156) is the largest and northernmost section of Prairies Ecozone. This definition is the arc-shaped region (i.e. including the WWF's central and foothills parkland but excluding the Peace River region). Partly defined by climate, it had a mean annual temperature of approximately 1.5 °C circa 1999, and rainfall varied from 400–500 mm/annum. It was thought to include the communities of Red Deer and Edmonton in Alberta; Lloydminster on the Alberta–Saskatchewan border; North Battleford, Humboldt, and Yorkton in Saskatchewan; and Brandon, Manitoba as its major population centres and have a total population of 1.689 million. By this definition, there are approximately of this ecoregion in the province of Alberta.\n\nAccording to the World Wide Fund for Nature the Canadian Aspen forests and parklands (NA0802) encompass eight ecoregions as used in the Ecological Framework of Canada: the Peace Lowland, Western Boreal, Boreal Transition, Interlake Plain, Aspen Parkland, and Southwest Manitoba Uplands (TEC 138, 143, 149, 155, 156, 161, 163, and 164). These ecoregions lie in both the Boreal Plains Ecozone and the Prairies Ecozone (Ecological Stratification Working Group 1995). The Boreal sections are Manitoba Lowlands, Aspen-Oak, Aspen Grove, Mixedwood, and Lower Foothills (15-17, 18a and 19a).\n\nThe aspen parkland biome runs in a thin band no wider than 500 km through the Prairie Provinces, although it gets broader to the west, especially in Alberta. This is a hilly landscape with many small lakes and ponds. The cities of Edmonton and Saskatoon are the largest cities completely in this biome while Winnipeg is bordered by tallgrass prairie to the west and south and the aspen parkland to the northeast, and Calgary is bordered by prairie to the east and the Foothills Parkland to the west.\n\nThere are three main sections of aspen parkland: Peace River, Central, and Foothills. The Central Parkland is the largest section and is part of main band of aspen parkland extending across Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba, bordered by prairie to the south and the boreal forest to the north. The Peace River Country is located along the Peace River region of the province, extending across the border into northeastern British Columbia, and is completely surrounded by boreal forest, cutting it off from the Central Parkland, it extends as far north as Fort Vermilion at 58°N 116°W. The Foothills parkland covers the Foothills of the Rocky Mountains as far south as Waterton Lakes National Park.\n\nThe region has a Humid continental climate accompanied by a subhumid low boreal transitional grassland ecoclimate. Summers are warm and short and winters can be long and cold. The Mean annual temperatures range from , with Summers ranging , and winters ranging . The Peace River Country in northwestern Alberta and northeastern areas of the North Interior in British Columbia has the coolest climate, but still supports extensive farmland. Southwest Manitoba sees the warmest. Annual precipitation is usually between . Chinook winds off the foothills also occur in winter, mainly affecting Alberta.\n\nFour significantly different habitats are common in the aspen parklands: The fescue prairie, the woodlands, the ravines and the wetlands and lakes. A rarer habitat type, tallgrass aspen parkland, occurs only in the extreme southeastern corner of the aspen parklands biome (southeastern Manitoba/northwestern Minnesota). The fescue prairie is a meadowland rich in vegetation variety which forms the cover for the development of the richer soils that underlie the parklands. The close association with woodlands and wetlands makes this a choice location for many plants and a preferred range or home site for a wide diversity of wildlife. The richer soil and increased precipitation favours the natural growth of fescue grass, but varying conditions such as moisture level and grazing pressures allow for the invasion of secondary plant species.\n\nThere are numerous grasses and sedges in the fescue prairie. Gravelly and rocky terrain is a good location for parry oat grass. Dry areas favour June, porcupine and spear grass. Wet areas are often covered with slender wheat grass and timber oat grass. Prairie rose and snowberry are common shrubs found in these grasslands.\n\nThe forested, or woodlands area is dominated by trembling aspen \"(Populus tremuloides)\", balsam poplar \"(Populus balsamifera)\", other poplars and spruces, although other species of trees do occur. Pines, mostly jack pine and lodgepole pine will often grow in areas that have sandy soil conditions. Other native species may include box elder, tamarack and willow, while the foothills area in the southeast of the region, such as Turtle Mountain or Spruce Woods Provincial Park, have woodland of white spruce and balsam fir but quaking aspen will domninate where the woodland has been cleared by fire. The proportion of forests to grasslands has increased somewhat over the prairie in areas not affected by agriculture in the last 100 years. This increase is partly due to the reduction of prairie fires which used to destroy the new saplings on the fringes of the aspen groves. Also, it was a common practice for farmers to plant stands of trees as windbreaks.\n\nAspen woodlands support an extensive understory consisting of mid-sized and small shrubs, some herbs and ground cover. Spruce-dominated woodlands usually do not support a dense understory due to more acidic and nutrient-poor soils and a denser canopy, which reduces sunlight reaching the forest floor below. However, in areas where a mixture of aspen and spruce occur, a fairly dense understory can still thrive. The mixed wood understory, as it is called, supports the greatest diversity of forest wildlife in the aspen parkland.\n\nLarge shrubs such as red-osier dogwood, beaked willow, saskatoon, chokecherry and pincherry, along with the smaller shrubs including prickly rose, snowberry, beaked hazelnut and high bush cranberry, form a dense entangled understory. Dense shrubbery is a typical feature in aspen-dominated forests. Common herbs found in the woodlands include: Lindley's aster \"(Aster ciliolatus)\", northern bedstraw \"(Galium boreale)\", pea vine, Western Canada violet \"(Viola canadensis)\", dewberry and bunchberry. Mosses appear at the base of trees and on the ground.\n\nWetlands are very common in this biome, including lakes, shallow open water, marshes, and grassy wetlands. Glacial erosion has contributed to such features by creating depressions in which standing water can collect. In the larger depressions, permanent lakes or ponds of water remain. Many of the lakes have a saline character, thus most shore vegetation has a high tolerance of salty soils. These lakes are known as alkali lakes. Wet meadows are flooded in the spring and dry by fall. They contain rushes, sedges and grasses and provide excellent opportunities to study the similarities and differences of these forms of vegetation.\n\nRivers and streams erode valleys throughout the parkland ecoregion. Steep hills and ravines result in a unique topography. Southwest slopes with increased exposure to the sun are dry and often more grass covered, while the shaded north and east exposures retain more moisture and tend to have greater forest cover. Some forms of vegetation unique to the ravines include: poplar, spruce, birch, willow, and river alder.\n\nWildflowers are an important component of the grassland association of the parkland. Look for common yarrow, cut-leaf anemone, rock cress, creeping white prairie aster, milk vetch, late yellow loco weed, goldenrod, prairie rose, prairie crocus, and tiger lily.\n\nThere are three main factors which influence the understory vegetation in the aspen stands of the mixed wood forest.\n\n1. Good sun exposure encourages a dense vegetation growth below the canopy. This is of particular importance in the early spring before the trees are in leaf.\n\n2. Warm soil and air temperature at the base level result in rapid melting process in spring which favours the growth of shrubs.\n\n3. A large percentage of precipitation passes through the canopy. This provides a protective snow cover in winter and in warm seasons precipitation percolates through the leaf cover to nourish plants which require surface soil moisture.\n\nThe result of the above factors is an extensive understory of vegetation in the aspen forest. Common shrubs and herbs are: saskatoon, red-osier dogwood, raspberry, wild rose, currants and bracted honeysuckle, wild sarsaparilla, hairy lungwort, asters, and peavine. Twinflower, strawberries, bunchberries, horsetails and wintergreen form an attractive grown cover.\n\nThe mineral soil is covered by a decaying cover of organic matter. Numerous consumers and decomposers create humus materials. Burrowing animals mix the new fertile materials with the soil to form a rich rooting compound.\n\nFactors which influence the understory vegetation of spruce stands in the boreal forest association include:\n\n1. Year round reduced sun exposure below the canopy restricts the forest undergrowth to shade tolerant species.\n\n2. A large percentage of the precipitation is trapped in the upper tree boughs of the spruce forest and is released through evaporation. The ground cover of feather moss quickly absorbs most of the moisture which does penetrate the canopy. These factors combine to cause drier conditions in the underlying mineral soils.\n\n3. The fallen acidic spruce needles are not fully decomposed and combine with the moss base. Water held in the moss carries the acid from the spruce needles into the mineral soil and leaches out soil nutrients – leaving a highly acidic, low nutrient soil base which is unsuitable for most boreal vegetation.\n\nAs a result of the above factors the forest floor ranges from nearly devoid of vegetation to a dense carpet of feather moss. A sparse community of shade tolerant shrubs exists in this environment. Some species of plants in the understory are Green Alder, low bush cranberry, prickly rose, bunchberry, twinflower, wild lily-of-the-valley, northern Comandra and wintergreens.\n\nThere are several factors which influence the mixedwood stands in the boreal forest.\n\nWhere there are stands of aspen and spruce forests in close association with each other, a mixed wood forest occurs. Each group forms its own microassociation as described previously.\n\nWhen the spruce and aspen forest types are mixed, the result can be quite different from the aspen or spruce stands. Animal and vegetation associations from each type combine to create considerable diversity of habitat which is typical of either spruce or aspen stands. The mixture of the transition soils provides an attractive environment with either pure spruce or pure aspen woodlands. An example of a bird which prefers a mixed wood habitat is the yellow-rumped warbler.\n\nThe mixedwood forest wetlands consist mainly of bogs, fens and marshes. Black spruce, tamarack, willow and bog and sphagnum mosses are the major vegetation types found in these lowlands. Dwarf birch and sedges cover large, wet areas with jack pine occurring on the sandy ridges.\n\nFor boreal aspen stands less than 40 years old, Comeau (2002) found that basal area provided a useful general predictor of understorey light levels, but, on the basis of light measurements in one 80-year-old stand, cautioned that relationships between understorey light and basal area may not hold in older stands. The literature indicates that the height growth of understorey spruce should be maximized when light levels exceed 40% or when aspen basal area is < 14 m²/ha. Models developed by Wright et al. (1998) show radial growth of understorey white spruce increasing almost linearly with increasing light and a continuous decline in radial increment with increasing aspen basal area. When applied to Comeau's (2002) data, the Wright et al. (1998) models suggest that spruce mortality will remain very low until aspen basal area exceeds 20 m²/ha, above which mortality will increase rapidly.\n\nWildlife in the parklands include moose \"(Alces alces)\", white-tailed deer \"(Odocoileus virginianus)\", black bear \"(Ursus americanus)\", coyote \"(Canis latrans)\", northern pocket gophers \"(Thomomys talpoides)\", thirteen-lined ground squirrels, Richardson's ground squirrels, North American beaver \"(Castor canadensis)\", snowshoe hare \"(Lepus americanus)\", weasels and gray wolf \"(canis lupus)\". Bear, moose, foxes, coyotes, beaver, snowshoe hare and red squirrels are found most often in the mixedwood stands compared to the aspen forests and spruce forests.\n\nBurrowing rodents such as Richardson's ground squirrels, thirteen-lined ground squirrels, and pocket gophers play a major role in the balance between the aspen groves and the grassland. These excavators make mounds of fresh soil which are ideal locations for the germination of poplar seeds. Once established, these trees spread by suckering, thus creating a new aspen groves.\n\nWhite-tailed deer finds shelter in the aspen and graze on the grasslands; coyotes and foxes hunt the resident rodents. Historically, bison grazed on the grassland and helped to prevent the spread of aspen groves. However, bison are now mostly absent due to over hunting during settlement in the 19th Century and extensive loss of habitat due to agriculture. Bison, however, can still be seen in protected areas such as Elk Island National Park east of Edmonton and in farms, where they are raised for meat.\n\nWildlife in the woodlands is varied and abundant. The varying hare, weasel, fox, coyote, and white-tailed deer make their homes in this region, while water dependent mammals who make the ravines and wetland areas of the ecoregion their home are beaver, muskrats, otters and mink.\n\nBirds of the aspen parkland include kingfishers, ruffed grouse, magpies and northern orioles. and in particular several species of warblers find this a preferred habitat.\n\nExtensive cultivation has disturbed the habitats of some birds which nest and feed on the fescue grassland. However, the horned lark and meadowlark have managed to adapt to the new conditions. Song sparrow, vesper sparrow, and American goldfinch can often be seen in open areas.\n\nThe woodlands meanwhile are abundant with a variety of bird species. Black-capped chickadee, hairy woodpeckers, ruffed grouse, magpies, and great horned owls can be observed in all seasons. Summer residents include: red-eyed vireo, least flycatcher and northern oriole.\n\nBirds which prefer the wetland habitat include kingfishers and bank swallows. Finally there is an abundance of bird life around the wetland marshes. Many species of ducks make their summer homes in these waters and Canada geese nest in the more remote marshes. Blackbirds, marsh wrens and black terns nest in the reeds. Franklin gulls nest in the marsh vegetation, but range over agricultural fields for grasshoppers, crickets, and mice. Shore birds include: avocet, piping plover, spotted sandpiper, willet, common snipe and killdeer.\n\nThe invertebrate population in the woodland is enormous. Some of the most common invertebrates are roundworms, snails, segmented worms, centipedes, mites, spiders and mosquitoes. Poplar gore beetles and forest tent caterpillars are destructive to the tree cover. Insects of the wetlands in this region include caddis flies, mayflies and black flies.\n\nBefore European colonization, there were large areas of western aspen and aspen parkland in the west of what would become Canada and the United States. This was maintained by light to moderate fires with a frequency of 3 to 15 years. Fire also swept the Rocky Mountains aspen as frequently as every ten years, creating large areas of parkland. Settlement increased fire frequency in the late 19th century until fire suppression became popular.\n\nMost of the aspen parkland, like the prairie biome, has been extensively altered by agriculture over the last 100 years since settlement first began in the late 19th Century. While the climate is generally cooler than in the prairies, the climate is still mild and dry enough to support large-scale farming of crops such as canola (Brassica napsus), alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and wheat (Triticum aestivum), and livestock grazing. The soils in the aspen parkland biome are also quite fertile, especially around Edmonton and Saskatoon. Oil and natural gas exploration and drilling have also disturbed the natural habitat, especially in Alberta and northeastern British Columbia. As a result, less than 10% of the original habitat remains.\n\nThe largest blocks of intact parkland can be found in Moose Mountain Provincial Park north of Carlyle, Saskatchewan and Bronson Forest in Saskatchewan, and Elk Island National Park and Canadian Forces Base Wainwright in Alberta. The rest of the parkland area does contain fragments of original habitat, some in protected areas such as Spruce Woods Provincial Park and Turtle Mountain Provincial Park in Manitoba, and Porcupine Provincial Forest in Saskatchewan.\n\nThe First Nations of this region were not solely buffalo-hunting nomads, as were tribes to the south. They also relied to a great extent on trapping (rabbits, etc.) fishing, and deer and moose hunting, as well as gathering parkland berries, such as the Saskatoon berry or the high bush cranberry.\n\nThis area was one of the most important regions of the fur trade in North America. Both the Assiniboine and North Saskatchewan rivers were major fur trade routes, with a number of fur trade posts, much more so than rivers to the prairie south. The Métis people were formed around these posts from the intermarriage of white fur traders and native trappers.\n\nOnce European settlement began, this region was desired by the peasant farmers of Eastern Europe and the smallholders of Quebec for its wooded land, so that they could build and heat their own homes. This is as opposed to the primarily British and American settlers, who desired grasslands that were easier to break and plough. At the time, people of similar backgrounds were allowed to concentrate into block settlements by the federal government: for example the Edna-Star colony in Alberta, the largest concentration of Ukrainians on the prairies.\n\nAs a result of these different styles of indigenous hunting agricultural settlement, the ethnic makeup of the Prairie Provinces is somewhat divided north and south. Cree, Métis, French, and Ukrainian Canadians are concentrated in the parkland belt, and in parkland cities such as Edmonton, Saskatoon, and Winnipeg as opposed to prairie cities like Calgary and Regina, which were settled more so by people of Blackfoot, Sioux, American, English, and German backgrounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2156280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156280", "title": "Baptism of Jesus", "text": "Baptism of Jesus\n\nThe baptism of Jesus is described in the gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke. John's gospel does not directly describe Jesus' baptism.\n\nMost modern theologians view the baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist as a historical event to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned. Along with the crucifixion of Jesus, most biblical scholars view it as one of the two historically certain facts about him, and often use it as the starting point for the study of the historical Jesus.\n\nThe baptism is one of the five major milestones in the gospel narrative of the life of Jesus, the others being the Transfiguration, Crucifixion, Resurrection, and Ascension. Most Christian denominations view the baptism of Jesus as an important event and a basis for the Christian rite of baptism (see also ). In Eastern Christianity, Jesus' baptism is commemorated on 6 January (the Julian calendar date of which corresponds to 19 January on the Gregorian calendar), the feast of Epiphany. In the Roman Catholic Church, the Anglican Communion, the Lutheran Churches and some other Western denominations, it is recalled on a day within the following week, the feast of the baptism of the Lord. In Roman Catholicism, the baptism of Jesus is one of the Luminous Mysteries sometimes added to the Rosary. It is a Trinitarian feast in the Eastern Orthodox Churches.\n\nMark, Matthew, and Luke depict the baptism in parallel passages. In all three gospels, the Holy spirit is depicted as descending upon Jesus immediately after his baptism accompanied by a voice from Heaven, but the accounts of Luke and Mark record the voice as addressing Jesus by saying \"You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased\", while in Matthew the voice addresses the crowd \"This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased\" ().\n\nAfter the baptism, the Synoptic gospels describe the temptation of Jesus, where Jesus withdrew to the Judean desert to fast for forty days and nights.\n\nIn , upon meeting Jesus, John said: \"I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?\" However, Jesus convinces John to baptize him nonetheless. Matthew uniquely records that the voice from heaven addresses the crowd, rather than addressing Jesus himself as in Mark and Luke.\n\nMark's account is roughly parallel to that of Matthew, except for describing John's initial reluctance and eventual consent to baptize Jesus, which is not described by Mark.\n\n\nLuke 1 begins with the birth of John the Baptist, heralded to his father Zacharias by the angel Gabriel. Six months later Gabriel appears to the Virgin Mary with an announcement of the birth of Jesus, at the Annunciation. At the same, Gabriel also announces to Mary the coming birth of John the Baptist, to her kinswoman Elizabeth, who is the wife of Zacharias. Mary immediately sets out to visit her kinswoman Elizabeth, and stays with her until John's birth. Luke strongly contrasts the reactions of Zacharias and Mary to these two respective births; and the lives of John and Jesus are intertwined.\n\nLuke uniquely depicts John as showing public kindness to tax collectors and encouraging the giving of alms to the poor (as in ). Luke records that Jesus was praying when Heaven was opened and the Holy Spirit descended on him. Luke clarifies that the spirit descended in the \"bodily form\" of a dove, as opposed to merely \"descending like\" a dove. In , the ministry of Jesus is described as following \"the baptism which John preached\".\n\nIn rather than a direct narrative, John the Baptist bears witness to the spirit descending like a dove.\n\nThe Gospel of John () specifies \"Bethabara beyond Jordan\", i.e., Bethany in Perea as the location where John was baptizing when Jesus began choosing disciples, and in there is mention of further baptisms in Ænon \"because there was much water there\".\n\nThe episode in forms the start of the relationship between Jesus and his future disciples. When John the Baptist called Jesus the Lamb of God, the \"two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus\". One of the disciples is named Andrew, but the other remains unnamed, and Raymond E. Brown raises the question of his being the author of the Gospel of John himself. In the Gospel of John, the disciples follow Jesus thereafter, and bring other disciples to him, and portrays the disciples of John as eventually merging with the followers of Jesus.\n\nAccording to the non-canonical Gospel of the Nazarenes, the idea of being baptized by John came from the mother and brothers of Jesus, and Jesus himself, originally opposed, reluctantly accepted it. Benjamin Urrutia avers that this version is supported by the Criterion of Embarrassment, since followers of Jesus would not have invented an episode in which Jesus changes his mind and comes to accept someone else's plan. Plus, the story came from the community that included the family of Jesus, who would have guaranteed the authenticity of the narrative.\n\nThe Gospel of John () refers to Enon near Salim as one place where John the Baptist baptized people, \"because there was much water there\". Separately, states that John the Baptist was baptizing in \"Bethany beyond the Jordan\". This is not the village Bethany just east of Jerusalem, but is generally considered to be the town Bethany, also called Bethabara in Perea on the Eastern bank of the Jordan near Jericho. In the 3rd century Origen, who moved to the area from Alexandria, suggested Bethabara as the location. In the 4th century, Eusebius of Caesarea stated that the location was on the west bank of the Jordan, and following him, the early Byzantine Madaba Map shows Bethabara as (Βέθαβαρά).\n\nThe biblical baptising is related to springs and a Wadi (al-Kharrar) close to the Eastern site of the Jordan River, not the Jordan itself. The pilgrimage sites, important for both Christians and Jews have shifted place during history. The site of Al-Maghtas (\"baptism\", or \"immersion\" in Arabic) on the East side of the River in Jordan has been deemed the earliest place of worship. This site was found following UNESCO-sponsored excavations. Al-Maghtas was visited by Pope John Paul II in March 2000, and he said: \"In my mind I see Jesus coming to the waters of the river Jordan not far from here to be baptized by John the Baptist\". The Muslim conquest put an end to the Byzantine buildings on the east bank of the Jordan River, the later reverence took place just across the river in the West Bank at Qasr el Yahud.\n\nThe baptism of Jesus is generally considered as the start of his ministry, shortly after the start of the ministry of John the Baptist. states that:\nIn the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar—when Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea ... , the word of God came to John son of Zechariah in the wilderness.\n\nThere are two approaches to determining when the reign of Tiberius Caesar started. The traditional approach is that of assuming that the reign of Tiberius started when he became co-regent in 11 AD, placing the start of the ministry of John the Baptist around 26 AD. However, some scholars assume it to be upon the death of his predecessor Augustus Caesar in 14 AD, implying that the ministry of John the Baptist began in 29 AD.\n\nThe generally assumed dates for the start of the ministry of John the Baptist based on this reference in the Gospel of Luke are about 28–29 AD, with the ministry of Jesus with his baptism following it shortly thereafter.\n\nMost modern scholars believe that John the Baptist performed a baptism on Jesus, and view it as a historical event to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned. James Dunn states that the historicity of the baptism and crucifixion of Jesus \"command almost universal assent\". Dunn states that these two facts \"rank so high on the 'almost impossible to doubt or deny' scale of historical facts\" that they are often the starting points for the study of the historical Jesus. John Dominic Crossan states that it is historically certain that Jesus was baptised by John in the Jordan.\n\nIn the Antiquities of the Jews (18.5.2) 1st-century historian Flavius Josephus also wrote about John the Baptist and his eventual death in Perea.\n\nThe existence of John the Baptist within the same time frame as Jesus, and his eventual execution by Herod Antipas is attested to by 1st-century historian Flavius Josephus and the overwhelming majority of modern scholars view Josephus' accounts of the activities of John the Baptist as authentic. Josephus establishes a key connection between the historical events he recorded and specific episodes that appear in the gospels. The reference in the \"Antiquities of the Jews\" by Josephus to John's popularity among the crowds () and how he preached his baptism is considered a reliable historical datum. Unlike the gospels, Josephus does not relate John and Jesus, and does not state that John's baptisms were for the remission of sins. However, almost all modern scholars consider the Josephus passage on John to be authentic in its entirety and view the variations between Josephus and the gospels as indications that the Josephus passages are authentic, for a Christian interpolator would have made them correspond to the Christian traditions.\n\nOne of the arguments in favour of the historicity of the baptism of Jesus by John is that it is a story which the early Christian Church would have never wanted to invent, typically referred to as the criterion of embarrassment in historical analysis. Based on this criterion, given that John baptised for the remission of sins, and Jesus was viewed as without sin, the invention of this story would have served no purpose, and would have been an embarrassment given that it positioned John above Jesus. The Gospel of Matthew attempts to offset this problem by having John feel unworthy to baptise Jesus and Jesus giving him permission to do so in .\n\nThe gospels are not the only references to the baptisms performed by John and in , the apostle Peter refers to how the ministry of Jesus followed \"the baptism which John preached\". Another argument used in favour of the historicity of the baptism is that multiple accounts refer to it, usually called the criterion of multiple attestation. Technically, multiple attestation does not guarantee authenticity, but only determines antiquity. However, for most scholars, together with the criterion of embarrassment it lends credibility to the baptism of Jesus by John being a historical event.\n\nWhile the gospel of Luke is explicit about the \"Spirit of God\" descending in the shape of a dove, the wording of Matthew is vague enough that it could be interpreted only to suggest that the descent was in the style of a dove. Although a variety of symbolisms were attached to doves at the time these passages were written, the dove imagery has become a well known symbol for the Holy Spirit in Christian art. Depictions of the baptismal scene typical show the sky opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove towards Jesus.\n\nThe reformer Martin Luther wrote a hymn about baptism, based on biblical accounts about the baptism of Jesus, \"\" (1541). It is the basis for a cantata by Johann Sebastian Bach, , first performed on 24 June 1724.\n\n"}
{"id": "5597628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5597628", "title": "Bi-hemispherical reflectance", "text": "Bi-hemispherical reflectance\n\nBi-hemispherical reflectance is the reflectance of a surface under diffuse illumination (with no direct component). Bi-hemispherical reflectance is an important part of the Bidirectional reflectance distribution function over all viewing and illumination directions of a hemisphere.<ref name=\"http://graphics.stanford.edu/courses/cs448-05-winter/papers/nicodemus-brdf-nist.pdf\"></ref> It is sometimes called \"white-sky albedo\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33002970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33002970", "title": "Bill Stilwell", "text": "Bill Stilwell\n\nBill Stilwell is a Canadian nature writer. He is the author of three national best-sellers: Manitoba Wild, Manitoba Naturally, and Scenic Secrets of Manitoba. Stilwell is the only rural Manitoba author who has had two or more national best-sellers while continuing to live here.\n\nThese books have received the following awards:\n"}
{"id": "52249672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52249672", "title": "Bog pond", "text": "Bog pond\n\nA bog pond () is a waterbody in the middle of a raised or kettle bog, formerly also in percolating mires (\"Durchströmungsmooren\"). It is also called a bog eye, raised bog kolk, bog kolk or just kolk. Bog ponds owe their existence to the growth of the bog body and are thus of biogenic origin. Brown bog ponds are surrounded by peat and receive their water exclusively from precipitation or from the large rain storage capacity of raised bogs. Such kolks generally represent the non-evaporating excess water of a bog. The central waterbody of these bogs exhibit almost no sedimentation.\n\nThe accumulation of nutrients can lead to the formation of floating mats. Their vegetation differs from that of other structures in the bog. Usually the edges of the kolk are more nutrient-rich as a result of mineralisation processes caused by wave and wind action. Here, woody plants such as downy birch (\"Betula pubescens\") and other species of plant e.g. purple moor grass (\"Molinia caerulea\") may establish that otherwise are missing on the central areas of intact bogs. The bog water is brown, nutrient-poor, humic acid rich and lime-free (dystrophic).\n\n"}
{"id": "10307943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10307943", "title": "Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum", "text": "Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum\n\nThe Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) is a not-for-profit technical society of professionals in the Canadian minerals, metals, materials and energy industries. CIM has over 11,000 members, convened from industry, academia and government.\n\nIn March 1898, the Canadian Mining Institute was founded in Montreal at the second annual meeting of the Federated Canadian Mining Institute, which was dissolved. The Institute was incorporated by Act of Parliament to include all former provincial groups except The Mining Society of Nova Scotia, which remained a separate body.\n\nIn 1902, The Institute formed its first Branches in Sherbrooke, Quebec, Kingston, Ontario, and Nelson, British Columbia. In 1918, the Mining Society of Nova Scotia formally became affiliated with the Canadian Mining Institute.\n\nIn 1920, Metallurgy was added to the name to recognize the inclusion of this discipline.\n\nIn 1942, the Institute made CIM its official abbreviation.\n\nIn 1990, \"Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum\" became the official name of the Institute by Act of Parliament.\n\n1998 was CIM's Centennial Year. A book entitled \"Pride and Vision\" by E. Tina Crossfield was published in commemoration of the event.\n\nIn 2018, CIM celebrated its 120th anniversary.\n\n\nThe institute bestows several awards annually to individuals for their outstanding achievements and contributions to their respective fields and to the mining and minerals industries in general.\n\nBranch and Society Awards\n\nEarly Career Awards\n\nExploration Awards\n\nSustainability Awards\n\nSafety Awards\nCareer Excellence Awards\n\nSocial Responsibility and Education Awards\n\n\nCIM official website\n"}
{"id": "85133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85133", "title": "Canens (mythology)", "text": "Canens (mythology)\n\nIn Roman mythology, Canens was the personification of song. A nymph from Latium, she was the daughter of Janus and Venilia.\n\nBecause Canens' husband Picus scorned the love of the witch Circe, she turned him into a woodpecker. Canens searched for her husband for six days and then threw herself into the Tiber river. She sang one final song and then died. They had one son, Faunus.\n\n"}
{"id": "5510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5510", "title": "Clipperton Island", "text": "Clipperton Island\n\nClipperton Island ( or ; ) is an uninhabited coral atoll in the eastern Pacific Ocean off the coast of Central America. It is 10,677 kilometres away from Paris, France, 5,400 km from Papeete, Tahiti, and 1,081 km from Mexico. It is an overseas minor territory of France, under direct authority of the Minister of Overseas France.\n\nThe atoll is south-west of Mexico, west of Nicaragua, west of Costa Rica and north-west of the Galápagos Islands, Ecuador, at . Clipperton is about south-east of Socorro Island in the Revillagigedo Archipelago, which is the nearest land. \n\nIt is low-lying and largely barren, with some scattered grasses and a few clumps of coconut palms (\"Cocos nucifera\"). Land elevations average , though a small volcanic outcrop rising to on its south-east side is considerably higher and is referred to as \"Clipperton Rock\". The surrounding reef is exposed at low tide. The presence of this rock means that technically Clipperton is not an atoll but an island with a barrier reef.\n\nClipperton has had no permanent inhabitants since 1945. It is visited on occasion by fishermen, French Navy patrols, scientific researchers, film crews, and shipwreck survivors. It has become a popular site for transmissions by ham radio operators.\n\nClipperton has a ring-shaped atoll which completely encloses a stagnant freshwater lagoon, and is in circumference. The lagoon is devoid of fish, and contains some deep basins with depths of , including a spot known as Trou-Sans-Fond, or \"the bottomless hole\", with acidic water at its base. The water is described as being almost fresh at the surface, and highly eutrophic. Seaweed beds cover approximately 45 percent of the lagoon's surface. The rim averages in width, reaching in the west and narrows to in the north-east, where sea waves occasionally spill over into the lagoon.\n\nWhile some sources have rated the lagoon water as non-potable, testimony from the crew of the tuna clipper M/V \"Monarch,\" stranded for 23 days in 1962 after their boat sank, indicates otherwise. Their report reveals that the lagoon water, while not tasting very good, was drinkable, though \"muddy and dirty\". Several of the castaways drank it, with no apparent ill effects.\n\nSurvivors of an ill-fated Mexican military colony in 1917 (see below) indicated that they were dependent upon rain for their water supply, catching it in old boats they used for this purpose. Aside from the lagoon and water caught from rain, no other freshwater sources are known to exist.\n\nIt has a tropical oceanic climate, with average temperatures of . The rainy season occurs from May to October, when it is subject to tropical storms and hurricanes. Surrounding ocean waters are warm, pushed by equatorial and counter-equatorial currents. It has no known natural resources (its guano having been depleted early in the 20th century). Although 115 species of fish have been identified in nearby waters the only economic activity in the area is tuna fishing.\n\nWhen Snodgrass and Heller visited in 1898, they reported that \"no land plant is native to the island\". Historical accounts from 1711, 1825 and 1839 show a low grassy or suffrutescent (partially woody) flora. During Sachet's visit in 1958, the vegetation was found to consist of a sparse cover of spiny grass and low thickets, a creeping plant (\"Ipomoea\" sp.), and stands of coconut palm. This low-lying herbaceous flora seems to be pioneer in nature, and most of it is believed to be composed of recently introduced species. Sachet suspected that \"Heliotropium curassavicum\" and possibly \"Portulaca oleracea\" were native. Coconut palms and pigs were introduced in the 1890s by guano miners. The pigs reduced the crab population, which in turn allowed grassland to gradually cover about 80 percent of the land surface. The elimination of these pigs in 1958—the result of a personal project by Kenneth E. Stager—has caused most of this vegetation to disappear as millions of land crabs (\"Johngarthia planata\") have returned. The result is virtually a sandy desert, with only 674 palms counted by Christian Jost during the \"Passion 2001\" French mission, and five islets in the lagoon with grass that the terrestrial crabs cannot reach.\nOn the north-west side the most abundant plant species are \"Cenchrus echinatus\", \"Sida rhombifolia\", and \"Corchorus aestuans\". These plants compose a shrub cover up to 30 cm in height and are intermixed with \"Eclipta\", \"Phyllanthus\", and \"Solanum\", as well as a taller plant, \"Brassica juncea\". A unique feature is that the vegetation is arranged in parallel rows of species, with dense rows of taller species alternating with lower, more open vegetation. This was assumed to be a result of the phosphate mining method of trench-digging.\nThe only land animals known to exist are two species of reptiles (\"Gehyra insulensis\", a gecko, and \"Emoia cyanura,\" a skink), bright-orange land crabs (\"Johngarthia planata\", sometimes known as the 'Clipperton Crab', although it is also found on other islands in the eastern Pacific), birds, and rats, the rats probably arriving from large fishing boats that were wrecked on the island in 1999 and 2000. Bird species include white terns, masked boobies, sooty terns, brown boobies, brown noddies, black noddies, great frigatebirds, coots, martins (swallows), cuckoos and yellow warblers. Ducks have been reported in the lagoon. The island has been identified as an Important Bird Area by BirdLife International because of the large breeding colony of masked boobies, with 110,000 individual birds recorded. The lagoon harbours millions of isopods, which swimmers say can deliver a painful sting.\n\nA 2005 report by the NOAA's Southwest Fisheries Science Center in La Jolla, California, USA indicates that the increased rat presence has led to a decline in both crab and bird populations, causing a corresponding increase in both vegetation and coconut palms. This report urgently recommended eradication of rats so that vegetation might be reduced and the island might return to its \"pre-human\" state.\n\nThe island was discovered on Good Friday, 3 April 1711 by Frenchmen Martin de Chassiron and Michel Du Bocage, commanding the French ships \"La Princesse\" and \"La Découverte\". It was given the name \"Île de la Passion\" (). They drew up the first map and claimed the island for France. The first scientific expedition took place in 1725 under Frenchman M. Bocage, who lived on the island for several months. In 1858, France formally laid claim.\n\nThe current name comes from John Clipperton, an English pirate and privateer who fought the Spanish during the early 18th century, and who is said to have passed by the island. Some sources say he used it as a base for his raids on shipping, but there is no documentary evidence.\n\nOther claimants included the United States, whose American Guano Mining Company claimed it under the Guano Islands Act of 1856; Mexico also claimed it due to activities undertaken there as early as 1848–1849. On 17 November 1858 Emperor Napoleon III annexed it as part of the French colony of Tahiti. This did not settle the ownership question. On 24 November 1897, French naval authorities found three Americans working for the American Guano Company, who had raised the American flag. U.S. authorities denounced their act, assuring the French that they did not intend to assert American sovereignty.\n\nMexico reasserted its claim late in the 19th century, and on 13 December 1897 sent the gunboat \"La Demócrata\" to occupy and annex it. A colony was established, and a series of military governors was posted, the last one being Ramón Arnaud (1906–1916). France insisted on its ownership, and a lengthy diplomatic correspondence between the two nations led to the conclusion of a treaty on March 2, 1909, to seek the arbitration of King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy, with each nation promising to abide by his determination. His decision was not rendered until 1931.\n\nThe British Pacific Island Company acquired the rights to guano deposits in 1906 and built a mining settlement in conjunction with the Mexican government. That same year, a lighthouse was erected under the orders of President Porfirio Díaz. By 1914 around 100 people—men, women, and children—were living there, resupplied every two months by a ship from Acapulco. With the escalation of fighting in the Mexican Revolution, the regular resupply visits ceased and the inhabitants were left to their own devices.\n\nBy 1917 all but one of the male inhabitants had died. Many had perished from scurvy, while others (including Captain Arnaud) died during an attempt to sail after a passing ship to fetch help. Lighthouse keeper Victoriano Álvarez was the last man on the island, together with 15 women and children. Álvarez proclaimed himself \"king\" and began an orgy of rape and murder, before being killed by Tirza Rendon, who was the recipient of his unwanted attention. Almost immediately after Álvarez's death four women and seven children, the last survivors, were picked up by the US Navy gunship on 18 July 1917. No more attempts were made to colonize it, though it was briefly occupied during the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nThe story of the Mexican colony has been the subject of several novels, including Ivo Mansmann's \"Clipperton, Schicksale auf einer vergessenen Insel\" (\"Clipperton, Destinies on a Forgotten Island\") in German, Colombian writer Laura Restrepo's \"La Isla de la Pasión\" (\"Passion Island\") in Spanish, and Ana Garcia Bergua's \"Isla de Bobos\" (\"Island of Fools\"), also in Spanish.\n\nMexico and France signed a compromise in 1909, agreeing to submit the dispute over sovereignty over Clipperton Island to binding international arbitration by King Victor Emanuel of Italy. In 1931 Victor Emanuel issued his arbitral decision in the \"Clipperton Island Case\", declaring Clipperton to be a French possession. The French rebuilt the lighthouse and settled a military outpost, which remained for seven years before being abandoned.\n\nThe island was abandoned by the end of World War II after being briefly occupied by the US from 1944–45. Since then it has been visited by sport fishermen, patrols of the French Navy, and by Mexican tuna and shark fishermen. There have been infrequent scientific and amateur radio expeditions, and in 1978 Jacques-Yves Cousteau visited with his team of divers and a survivor from the 1917 evacuation to film a television special called \"Clipperton: The Island that Time Forgot.\"\n\nIt was visited by ornithologist Ken Stager of the Los Angeles County Museum in 1958. Appalled at the depredations visited by feral pigs upon the island's brown booby and masked booby colonies (reduced to 500 and 150 birds, respectively), Stager procured a shotgun and killed all 58 pigs. By 2003, the booby colonies had 25,000 brown boobies and 112,000 masked boobies, the world's second-largest brown booby colony and its largest masked booby colony.\n\nWhen the independence of Algeria in 1962 threatened French nuclear testing sites in the African nation, the French Ministry of Defence considered Clipperton Island as a possible replacement. This was eventually ruled out due to the hostile climate and remote location. The French explored reopening the lagoon and developing a harbour for trade and tourism during the 1970s but this idea was abandoned. An automatic weather installation was completed on 7 April 1980, with data collected by this station being transmitted by satellite to Brittany.\n\nIn 1981, the Academy of Sciences for Overseas Territories recommended that the island have its own economic infrastructure, with an airstrip and a fishing port in the lagoon. This would mean opening up the lagoon by creating a passage in the atoll rim. For this purpose, an agreement was signed with the French government, represented by the High Commissioner for French Polynesia, whereby the island became French state property. In 1986 a meeting took place regarding the establishment of a permanent base for fishing, between the High Commissioner and the survey firm for the development and exploitation of the island (SEDEIC). Taking into account the economic constraints, the distance from markets, and the small size of the atoll, nothing apart from preliminary studies was undertaken. All plans for development were abandoned.\n\nIn early 1962 the island provided a home to nine crewmen of the sunken tuna clipper MV \"Monarch\", stranded for 23 days from 6 February to 1 March. They reported that the lagoon water was drinkable, though they preferred to drink water from the coconuts they found. Unable to use any of the dilapidated buildings, they constructed a crude shelter from cement bags and tin salvaged from Quonset huts built by the American military 20 years earlier. Wood from the huts was used for firewood, and fish caught off the fringing reef combined with some potatoes and onions they had saved from their sinking vessel to augment the meagre supply of coconuts. The crewmen reported that they tried eating bird's eggs, but found them to be rancid, and they decided after trying to cook a \"little black bird\" that it did not have enough meat to make the effort worthwhile. Pigs had been eradicated, though the crewmen reported seeing their skeletons around the atoll. The crewmen were eventually discovered by another fishing boat and rescued by the United States Navy destroyer USS \"Robison\".\n\nIn 1988, five Mexican fishermen became lost at sea after a storm during their trip along the coast of Costa Rica. They drifted within sight of the island but were unable to reach it. Steven Longbaugh and David Heritage, two American deckhands from a fishing boat based in California, were stranded for three weeks in 1998. They were rescued after rebuilding a survival radio and using distress flares to signal for help.\n\nThe Mexican and French oceanographic expedition SURPACLIP (UNAM Mexico and UNC Nouméa) made extensive studies in 1997. In 2001, French geographer Christian Jost extended the 1997 studies through his French \"Passion 2001\" expedition, explaining the evolution of the ecosystem, and releasing several papers, a video film, and a website. In 2003 Lance Milbrand stayed for 41 days on a National Geographic Society expedition, recording his adventure in video, photos, and a written diary (see links below).\n\nIn 2005, the ecosystem was extensively studied for four months by a scientific mission organized by Jean-Louis Étienne, which made a complete inventory of mineral, plant, and animal species, studied algae as deep as 100 m (330 ft) below sea level, and examined the effects of pollution. A 2008 expedition from the University of Washington's School of Oceanography collected sediment cores from the lagoon to study climate change over the last millennium.\n\nOn 21 February 2007, administration was transferred from the High Commissioner of the Republic in French Polynesia to the Minister of Overseas France.\n\nIn 2007 a recreational scuba diving expedition explored the reefs surrounding Clipperton, and compared the marine life with the reports of the Connie Limbaugh (Scripps) expeditions in 1956 and 1958. Recreational scuba diving expeditions are now made every spring.\n\nDuring the night of 10 February 2010, the \"Sichem Osprey\", a Maltese chemical tanker, ran aground on its way from the Panama Canal to South Korea. The ship contained xylene, a clear, flammable volatile liquid. All 19 crew members were reported safe, and the vessel reported no leaks. The vessel was refloated on March 6 and returned to service.\n\nIn mid-March 2012, the crew from The Clipperton Project noted the widespread presence of refuse, particularly on the northeast shore and around the Rock. Debris including plastic bottles and containers create a potentially harmful environment to its flora and fauna. This trash is common to only two beaches (North East and South West) and the rest of the island is fairly clean. Other refuse has been left over after the occupation by the Americans in 1944–45, the French in 1966–69 and the 2008 scientific expedition.\n\nThe island has long been an attractive destination for amateur radio groups, due to its remoteness, difficulty of landing, permit requirements, romantic history, and interesting environment. While some radio operation was done ancillary to other expeditions, major DX-peditions include FO0XB (1978), FO0XX (1985), FO0CI (1992), FO0AAA (2000), and TX5C (2008).\n\nOne DX-pedition was the Cordell Expedition in March 2013 using the callsign TX5K, organized and led by Robert Schmieder. The project combined radio operations with selected scientific investigations. The team of 24 radio operators made more than 114,000 contacts, breaking the previous record of 75,000. The activity included extensive operation on 6 metres, including EME (Earth–Moon–Earth communication or 'moonbounce') contacts. A notable accomplishment was the use of DXA, a real-time satellite-based online graphic radio log web page that allowed anyone anywhere with a browser to see the radio activity. Scientific work carried out during the expedition included the first collection and identification of foraminifera, and extensive aerial imaging of the island using kite-borne cameras. The team included two scientists from the French-Polynesian University of Tahiti and a TV crew from the French documentary television series THALASSA.\n\nAn April 2015 DX-pedition using callsign TX5P was conducted by Alain Duchauchoy, F6BFH, concurrent with the Passion 2015 scientific expedition to Clipperton Island, and engaging in research of Mexican use of the island during the early 1900s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19662199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19662199", "title": "Convection–diffusion equation", "text": "Convection–diffusion equation\n\nThe convection–diffusion equation is a combination of the diffusion and convection (advection) equations, and describes physical phenomena where particles, energy, or other physical quantities are transferred inside a physical system due to two processes: diffusion and convection. Depending on context, the same equation can be called the advection–diffusion equation, drift–diffusion equation, or (generic) scalar transport equation.\n\nThe general equation is\nwhere\n\nThe right-hand side of the equation is the sum of three contributions.\n\nIn a common situation, the diffusion coefficient is constant, there are no sources or sinks, and the velocity field describes an incompressible flow (i.e., it has zero divergence). Then the formula simplifies to:\n\nIn this form, the convection–diffusion equation combines both parabolic and hyperbolic partial differential equations.\n\nThe stationary convection–diffusion equation describes the steady-state behavior of a convective-diffusive system. In a steady state, , so the formula is:\n\nThe convection–diffusion equation can be derived in a straightforward way from the continuity equation, which states that the rate of change for a scalar quantity in a differential control volume is given by flow and diffusion into and out of that part of the system along with any generation or consumption inside the control volume:\nwhere is the total flux and is a net volumetric source for . There are two sources of flux in this situation. First, diffusive flux arises due to diffusion. This is typically approximated by Fick's first law:\ni.e., the flux of the diffusing material (relative to the bulk motion) in any part of the system is proportional to the local concentration gradient. Second, when there is overall convection or flow, there is an associated flux called advective flux:\nThe total flux (in a stationary coordinate system) is given by the sum of these two:\nPlugging into the continuity equation:\n\nIn general, , , and may vary with space and time. In cases in which they depend on concentration as well, the equation becomes nonlinear, giving rise to many distinctive mixing phenomena such as Rayleigh–Bénard convection when depends on temperature in the heat transfer formulation and reaction–diffusion pattern formation when depends on concentration in the mass transfer formulation.\n\nIn some cases, the average velocity field exists because of a force; for example, the equation might describe the flow of ions dissolved in a liquid, with an electric field pulling the ions in some direction (as in gel electrophoresis). In this situation, it is usually called the drift–diffusion equation or the Smoluchowski equation, after Marian Smoluchowski who described it in 1915 (not to be confused with the Einstein–Smoluchowski relation or Smoluchowski coagulation equation).\n\nTypically, the average velocity is directly proportional to the applied force, giving the equation:\nwhere is the force, and characterizes the friction or viscous drag. (The inverse is called mobility.)\n\nWhen the force is associated with a potential energy (see conservative force), a steady-state solution to the above equation (i.e. ) is:\n(assuming and are constant). In other words, there are more particles where the energy is lower. This concentration profile is expected to agree with the Boltzmann distribution (more precisely, the Gibbs measure). From this assumption, the Einstein relation can be proven:\n\nThe convection–diffusion equation (with no sources or drains, ) can be viewed as a stochastic differential equation, describing random motion with diffusivity and bias . For example, the equation can describe the Brownian motion of a single particle, where the variable describes the probability distribution for the particle to be in a given position at a given time. The reason the equation can be used that way is because there is no mathematical difference between the probability distribution of a single particle, and the concentration profile of a collection of infinitely many particles (as long as the particles do not interact with each other).\n\nThe \"Langevin equation\" describes advection, diffusion, and other phenomena in an explicitly stochastic way. One of the simplest forms of the Langevin equation is when its \"noise term\" is Gaussian; in this case, the Langevin equation is exactly equivalent to the convection–diffusion equation. However, the Langevin equation is more general.\n\nThe convection–diffusion equation can only rarely be solved with a pen and paper. More often, computers are used to numerically approximate the solution to the equation, typically using the finite element method. For more details and algorithms see: Numerical solution of the convection–diffusion equation.\n\nThe convection–diffusion equation is a relatively simple equation describing flows, or alternatively, describing a stochastically-changing system. Therefore, the same or similar equation arises in many contexts unrelated to flows through space.\nwhere is the momentum of the fluid (per unit volume) at each point (equal to the density multiplied by the velocity ), is viscosity, is fluid pressure, and is any other body force such as gravity. In this equation, the term on the left-hand side describes the change in momentum at a given point; the first term on the right describes viscosity, which is really the diffusion of momentum; the second term on the right describes the advective flow of momentum; and the last two terms on the right describes the external and internal forces which can act as sources or sinks of momentum.\n\nIn biology, the reaction–diffusion–advection equation is used to model the spatiotemporal dynamics of molecular species, most notably in morphogenesis. An example is a study of VEGFC patterning in the context of lymphangiogenesis.\n\nIn semiconductor physics, this equation is called the drift–diffusion equation. The word \"drift\" is related to drift current and drift velocity. The equation is normally written:\nwhere\n\nThe diffusion coefficient and mobility are related by the Einstein relation as above:\nwhere is the Boltzmann constant and is absolute temperature. The drift current and diffusion current refer separately to the two terms in the expressions for , namely:\n\nThis equation can be solved together with Poisson's equation numerically.\nAn example of results of solving the drift diffusion equation is shown on the right. When light shines on the center of semiconductor, carriers are generated in the middle and diffuse towards two ends. The drift–diffusion equation is solved in this structure and electron density distribution is displayed in the figure. One can see the gradient of carrier from center towards two ends.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3649650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3649650", "title": "ENGO", "text": "ENGO\n\nAn ENGO (environmental non-governmental organization) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) in the field of environmentalism. Examples of ENGOs include the WWF, Greenpeace, Conservation International, The Nature Conservancy, Friends of the Earth and the Environmental Investigation Agency.\n\nThe goals of environmental NGOs include but are not limited to: creating relationships with the government and other organizations, offering training and assistance in agricultural conservation to maximize the use of local resources, establishing environmental solutions, and managing projects implemented to address issues affecting a particular area. Environmental NGOs are organizations that are not run by federal or state governments but rather have funds issued to them by governments, private donors, corporations, and other institutions. In order to fully understand the social, economic, and environmental effects an organization can have on a region, it is important to note that the organization can act outside the formal processes that state governments and other government institutions must comply with.\n\nThe funds issued by various parties inevitably influence the way their efforts will be put out, the different kinds of environmental policy-making, and the activities pursued to challenge and put pressure on the states to cooperate in environmental protection. It is clear that private and non-private funding influences and affects the way environmental NGOs view and report environmental conditions.\n\nThe concept of what is local is crucial to the kinds of efforts and objectives environmental NGOs will carry out. This aim will aid how environmental NGOs will “facilitate, fund, promote, and provide planning and organizational assistance to so called grass roots organizations\". Their efforts come in many forms such as: launching campaigns against nuclear weapons testing, protesting whale hunting, and \"international campaigns against the degradation of environmental goods caused by practices like \"clearing of timber, and criticize states for their ineffective policies or transnational corporations for environmentally damaging production\".\n\nWith political backup, environmental NGOs receive considerable amounts of assets and resources through government sponsors such as the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD) among many others, who supersede environmental policies.\n\nEnvironmental NGOs have become increasingly aware of the loss of biodiversity in Africa and operate on conserving wild and domesticated animals and plants.\n\nBy the 1980s, most of Zimbabwe's best land had been taken control of by European settlers which have been divided into categories of \"(1) large-scale commercial farm land. (2) resettlement areas, (3) communal lands, (4) national parks and safari areas, (5) forest lands, and (6) urban land\" which (with the exception of communal land) is owned and operated by the state. Environmental problems are defined as:\n\n\"a change in the physical environment brought about by human interferences which are perceived by people to be unacceptable with respect to a particular set of commonly shared norms\".\n"}
{"id": "1866762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1866762", "title": "Endelave", "text": "Endelave\n\nEndelave is a Danish island in the Kattegat, north of Odense, off the coast of Funen, and west of Samsø. The island covers an area of and has 185 inhabitants.\n\nEndelave and its surrounding seaside is important for many birds, both on domestic and international levels and it is therefore a Ramsar area. The Ramsar protection is part of the Ramsar protection in Horsens Fjord and has number 152. The total area of the entire protection encompass 42,737 ha. The reef 'Møllegrunden' Northwest of the island is an important resting and breeding site for many seals in the Kattegat sea. The bay of Endelave is comprised by a large intertidal zone similar to the wadden sea area. About ⅓ of the island itself is protected under the Natura 2000 plan, housing vulnerable and outstanding nature-types such as a heather moorland thicket, a beach-meadow and oak forests for example.\n\nEndelave is home to a population of wild rabbits of variable size. It is a locally distributed animal in Denmark, but where it is found the population is usually large. The rabbits on Endelave are hunted when in season and in the last few years, more than half of the total rabbit bag in Denmark (a stable level of 5000 animal pro anno), was from Endelave.\n\n"}
{"id": "40257579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40257579", "title": "Energy in the Philippines", "text": "Energy in the Philippines\n\nThe total primary energy consumption of the Philippines in 2012 was 30.2 Mtoe (million Tonnes of oil equivalent), most of which came from fossil fuels. Electricity consumption in 2010 was 64.52 TWh, of which almost two-thirds came from fossil fuels, 21% from hydroelectric plants, and 13% from other renewable sources. The total generating capacity was 16.36 GW.\n\nThe population of the Philippines is over 101 million people, and as a rapidly developing nation, has seen a rapid increase in GDP, averaging 6.1% from 2011 to 2015.\nEnergy-intensive manufacturing and retail industries are the driving factors of the Philippines' economic growth.\nGiven its large population and rapidly growing economy, the country's energy needs are significant and growing rapidly. According to the Philippines Department of Energy, the Philippines consumed 75,266 gigawatt-hours (GWh) of electricity in 2013. \nOf this, 27.39% went to powering residential areas, 24.31% to commercial establishments and 27.46% to the industrial sector. With 72.84% of electrical energy being consumed by Luzon, 14.75% by Visayas, and 12.41% by Mindanao in 2013.\n\nThe Philippines’ demand for electrical energy in 2013 represents a 42.17% increase from 2012, when the demand for energy was at 52,941 GWh. It is expected that the country’s demand for power will increase as the Philippines’ population and economy continue to grow.\n\nThe Philippines’ current energy mix highly favors fossil fuels, with coal, natural gas, and oil, accounting for 73.56% of the country's total electrical energy needs, primarily due to their low cost.\n\nThe Philippines's most heavily used energy source is coal. Of the country’s 75,266 GWh electrical energy demand in 2013, 32,081 GWh or approximately 42.62% was sourced from coal. This heavy dependence on coal is further apparent by the high number of coal-fired power plants in the country. As of March 2016, there were 32 coal-fired power generation facilities connected to the energy grid. These facilities are spread throughout the country, although most of them are in Luzon and Visayas. The number of coal-fired power plants in the country is set to increase by 25 by the year 2030 to keep up with the Philippines’ growing energy demands.\n\nBesides coal, the Philippines is also heavily dependent on natural gas. The Philippines produced 18,791 GWh of electricity from natural gas in 2013. This corresponded to 24.97% of the Philippines’ electrical energy needs during this period. As of March 2016, there were a total of 13 natural gas generation facilities connected to the energy grid, 12 of which are in Luzon and one of which is in Cebu on Visayas.\n\nThe Philippines also generates a significant amount of electrical energy from oil, albeit to a lesser degree than compared to coal and natural gas. In 2013, the Philippines sourced 5.97% of its energy from oil-based sources. As of March 2016, there were a total of 212 gas and diesel-powered facilities in the Philippines. The large number of oil-powered power plants is a result of a lower per plant output compared to coal and natural gas. Oil-powered power plants can be found dispersed across several provinces in Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao.\n\nThe Government of the Philippines has introduced various policies to foster renewable energy. Some of the policies provide an income tax holiday up to seven years, duty-free import of equipment for renewable energy technologies, etc. In 2012, the government launched the new feed-in tariff (FIT).\n\n"}
{"id": "12559446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12559446", "title": "Gans theory", "text": "Gans theory\n\nGans theory or Mie-Gans theory is the extension of Mie theory for the case of spheroidal particles. It gives the scattering characteristics of both oblate and prolate spheroidal particles much smaller than the excitation wavelength.\nSince it is a solution of the Maxwell equations it should technically not be called a theory.\n\nThe theory is named after Richard Gans who first published the solution for gold particles in 1912 in an article entitled \"Über die Form ultramikroskopischer Goldteilchen\". A subsequent article in 1915 discussed the case of silver particles.\n\nIn Gans theory, the absorption is only dependent on the aspect ratio of the particles and not on the absolute dimensions. This dependence is introduced through so called polarization- or shape factors related to the three dimensions of the particle. For the case of spheroids, this reduces to only two different factors since the particle is rotational symmetric around one axis.\n\nIt is currently being applied in the field of nanotechnology to characterize silver and gold nanorods. A popular alternative for this is the Discrete dipole approximation (DDA) method. Gans theory gives the exact solution for spheroidal particles; real nanorods, however, have a more cylindrical shape. Using DDA, it is possible to better model the exact shape of the particles. As the name suggests, this will only give an approximation.\n\n"}
{"id": "27718961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27718961", "title": "Global storm activity of 2010", "text": "Global storm activity of 2010\n\nThe global storm activity of 2010 includes major meteorological events in the Earth's atmosphere during the year, including winter storms (blizzards, ice storms, European windstorms), hailstorms, out of season monsoon rain storms, extratropical cyclones, gales, microbursts, flooding, rainstorms, tropical cyclones, and other severe weather events.\n\nThe thunderstorm season for the Northern Hemisphere began near spring, beginning on March 1, and ending on August 31.\n\nFresh overnight snowfall on New Year's Eve and New Year's Day caused disruption in north east England, with roads across Northumberland, Tyne and Wear, County Durham and Teesside affected. Snow also fell in parts of East Cumbria. In places it was as deep as and motorists were warned not to travel unless their journey was absolutely necessary.\n\nA major snow-related weather warning was put out in Alaska on December 30. The expected snowstorm was probably part of the same weather system that hit the Russian Far East from December 30 to January 5.\n\nBetween January 1 and 2, 2010, 50- and 70-year record low temperatures and snowfall hit northern China and Korea starting January 1. Blizzards also hit Mongolia's Dundgobi province.\n\nA heavy storm surge hit northeastern New Brunswick on January 2, leading to over $750,000 in damage in the community of Port Elgin.\n\nHeavy record-breaking snow also fell in Moscow in early January 2010. and light snow briefly fell in Greece and Turkey.\n\nOn January 2, a weather front with a northerly wind brought heavy snow to the northwest of England. Wythenshawe near Manchester Airport had of snow. This affected road transport on January 2, particularly in the Greater Manchester area with conditions on the M60, M602 and M66 reported to be poor, while Snake Pass, which links Manchester with Sheffield was closed.\n\nAs a snowstorm entered Scotland, a number of roads across the country were closed including three junctions of the M9 while the motorway was shut in both directions at the Newbridge Roundabout in Edinburgh during the evening because of heavy snow, and did not open again until the following day. Problems were also reported on the A96 and the A939. Rail services between Inverness and Central Scotland were also affected by poor weather.\n\nPossibly more than 200 people died in northern India, mostly in Uttar Pradesh after a cold snap and accidents in heavy fog around January 2 and 3.\n\nHeavy rain fell in parts of southwestern Brazil. The worst affected municipality has been Angra dos Reis, about southwest of the city of Rio de Janeiro. At least 35 people were killed at a resort on Ilha Grande: about 40 people were staying in the hotel which was buried under a mudslide, and the death toll is expected to rise further. In Rio Grande do Sul, at least seven people are dead and 20 missing after a bridge collapsed due to heavy rains. It is reported to be one of the worst mudslides in Reo De Janero's history.\n\nOn January 4, heavy rain fell in Brazil.\n\nHeavy snow fell in northern China and grounded hundreds of flights on the 4th. It and forced Hong Kong's Financial Secretary John Tsang and Monetary Authority Chief Executive Officer Norman Chan to cancel a trip to Beijing. Beijing was hit by a blizzard starting the evening of the 2nd, with 70–80% of flights cancelled out of Beijing Capital International Airport on January 4. Close to 20 cm of snow fell in the north of the city, and close to 25 cm in Seoul. Schools across the area were closed, and Premier Wen asked local governments to ensure safe transportation, continued food supplies, and continued agricultural production. Continued snowstorms were forecast for the city of Beijing and the province of Inner Mongolia. It was also predicted on January 7 for snow to reach the provinces of Jiangsu, Anhui, Henan and Hubei on January 9 according to China National Radio. One person was killed in Xinjiang Autonomous Region as a result of the storm. Emergency services handed out extra cattle fodder in Tibet.\n\nJapan's Hokkaido island was hit by heavier snowfall, causing heavy travel disruption and some airport closures.\n\nBy January 4 about 30 people, including 28 children and an elderly man, died from cold-related causes in the last 11 days across Bangladesh as snow and a cold wave swept over the north and centre of the nation. Freezing fog also occurred on the 4th in Punjab, India. Some parts of Bangladesh were the hardest hit with temperatures plummeting as low as 6 °C according to meteorologist Sanaul Haque, who predicted the cold wave may continue for another day.\n\nThe New Brunswick villages of Upper Cape and Port Elgin were devastated as a massive hurricane-strength blizzard hit Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island on January 4, causing massive blackouts in its wake.\n\nLight snow briefly fell in Lebanon, Jordan, Israel and Palestine and further snow was reported in Niigata, Japan.\n\nBy January 4 about 30 people, including 28 children and an elderly man, died from cold-related causes in the last 11 days across Bangladesh as snow and a cold wave swept over the north and centre of the nation. Freezing fog also occurred on the 4th in Punjab, India. Some parts of Bangladesh were the hardest hit with temperatures plummeting as low as 6 °C according to meteorologist Sanaul Haque, who predicted the cold wave may continue for another day.\n\nHeavy rain and severe cold hit southern Bangladesh and Italy.\n\nOn the 4th, the UN issued a Green Alert in Albania as northern rivers swell with melt water\n\nIn its monthly summary, Met Éireann, Ireland's weather service, said December was the coldest month for 28 years for most of the country and the coldest of any month since February 1986 at a few stations.\n\nIn Scotland, Fife Council became the first local authority to confirm that its supply of grit was exhausted on January 4, after it received less than it had ordered from suppliers. Government Ministers denied there was a shortage of grit and salt and insisted there were \"very substantial\" supplies for Scotland's roads.\n\nItaly suffered from both heavy rain in the south and heavy snow in the north.\n\nJanuary 4 saw four villages in Sakhalin lose power as a result of a storm. The 2,000 strong town of Tomari was worst hit. Blizzard struck Sakhalin island, a narrow island in the stormy Sea of Okhotsk, off the coast of Siberia and just 25 miles north of Japan's snowy Hokkaido island.\n\nOn the 4th, many motorways in Shandong were closed and 19 flights cancelled in the Yantai International Airport. Eventually the No. 1820 train, carrying more than 800 passengers, started off at after being stranded for 12 hours.\n\nJanuary 4 saw Seoul's heaviest snowfall since 1937 according to the Korea Meteorological Administration (KMA). The blizzard dumped of snow on the town.\n\nAvalanches and heavy snow hit the Russian's Sakhalin Island, which was smothered by a snow cyclone and blizzard, the Island's emergency officials said.\n\nCivil authorities were put on a major alert in the snow-torn province of Shandong on January 4 as more snow fell in both Shandong and Beijing. Travel was affected as the snowstorm paralyzed Beijing on January 4, 2010.\n\nJanuary 5 in northeastern China saw a smooth flow of traffic, with no gridlock or serious traffic accidents being reported after the snowstorm that caused traffic chaos on the 4th, according to the Beijing Traffic Management Bureau. The city's bus and subway train services were up and running according as plan. During the peak hours on Monday morning, the Beijing Subway Operating Company dispatched 20 additional trains to ease the heavy passenger flow. The bus of all routes started off on time that morning, according to the Beijing Public Transport Holdings. Inner Mongolia was still in a critical situation as teams batteled to clear severe rural snow drifts.\n\n4–8 inches (10–20 centimeters) of snow fell in Beijing on the 5th, in the largest snowfall since 1951.\n\nThe 2,000 weather modification offices in China, which are responsible for bombing the skies with silver iodide to induce rain or snow, were put into use. Schools in Beijing and Tianjin closed and because the cities' traffic was in chaos. The capital received the harshest Siberian winds in decades. Temperatures for the 5th were forecast to plunge to −16 °C, a 40-year record low, after a daytime maximum of −8 °C. The head of the Beijing Meteorological Bureau, Guo Hu, linked the blizzard-like conditions of the first week of January to unusual atmospheric patterns caused by global warming.\n\nHeavy snow started to fall in Seoul, South Korea and it was reported that a leading North Korean Communist party official had frozen to death, in his home, situated in the country's Sepo kun (or county).\n\nDuring the traffic peak hours of Monday morning, the Beijing Subway Operating Company dispatched 20 additional subway trains to ease the heavy passenger flow. City workers were deployed to clean the snow in the city's main roads with about 15,710 tonnes of snow-dissolving agent, Beijing Environmental Sanitation Group Co., Ltd. official Zhang Zhiqiang said. On the 4th, many motorways in Shandong were closed and 19 flights were cancelled at Yantai International Airport.\n\nIn Inner Mongolia, 13 trains were delayed that Monday in Hohhot, the regional capital, according to the Hohhot railway authorities.\nThe Met Office issued weather warnings for every region in the UK except the Northern Isles. An extreme weather warning was issued for southern areas for overnight snowfall which could bring accumulations from . BBC Weather and the Met Office also warned that temperatures in the Highlands of Scotland could drop to later in the week. The Met Office also confirmed that the UK is experiencing the longest prolonged cold spell since December 1981. The Harrogate district endured over six inches and had been a regular feature on BBC News broadcasts.\n\nA local record of of snow was lying in Aviemore and of snow was recorded within the Cairngorms National Park. Most parts of Scotland had further snowfalls during the night of January 4/5.\n\nDue to shortage of road grit conventionally made from rock salt, road grit was being made by or for road-gritters from cooking-type salt mixed with builders' sand; and the public bought up large amounts of cooking salt and table salt from food shops to put on their paths and drives. The Government was reported to have reallocated reserve supplies of road salt and grit from Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire and sent it to Cumbria and Fife due to the higher priority of even lower salt and grit reserves, along with the greater snow clearance work, according to Radio Oxford.\n\nA heat wave and/or unforeseen monsoon weather also hit parts of Australia in early 2010. Victoria, the scene of horrific bushfires the year before, had a far colder summer, with hot weather arriving more than a month later than usual in 2009. August 17 saw a dust storm at Laguna Mar Chiquita as a major drought hit Argentina, and flooding and hailstorms hit southeastern Australia and Queensland in March 2010. The lack of winter precipitation in parts of China, however, contributed to a severe drought in the southwest. Bolivia, Venezuela, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco and Spain have also seen periods of drought in 2009 and 2010. On between May 12 and 26, both Mauritania, the Sénégal River Area and neighbouring parts of both Senegal and Mali faced both a drought and famine in 2010.\n\nSnow and fog occurred in Germany from January 3 to January 10. The Finnish railways and Helsinki airport are disrupted by further snowfall and record low temperatures for the Helsinki region.\n\nOn January 6, the London Borough of Harrow closed 58 schools and 73 flights were cancelled at Heathrow as 3 cm of snow fell at Heathrow Airport.\n\nContinued snowstorms were forecast for the city of Beijing and the province of Inner Mongolia. Electricity rationing started on January 7. Snow had started falling in Gangsu province by January 7. It also was projected on January 7 to have reached the provinces of Jiangsu, Anhui, Henan and Hubei on January 9 according to China National Radio.\n\nThe Chinese government said that China faced its worst ice risk in 30 years. By the night of January 8–9, the major snowstorms predicted on January 7 for the provinces of Jiangsu and Anhui, had arrived and the emergency services were put on alert.\n\nContinued snowstorms were forecast for the city of Beijing and the province of Inner Mongolia. Snow reached the provinces of Jiangsu, Anhui, Henan and Hubei on January 9. One person was killed in Xinjiang Autonomous Region as a result of the storm.\nThe synoptic situation in northern Europe settled to a steady northeast wind which brought snow showers and belts of snow.\n\nThe British Army had to help stranded motorists in southern areas.\nThe Met Office confirmed that of snow fell in some parts of southern England.\n\nA \"severe\" warning issued by the Met Office was in place for every region in the UK. Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond said Scotland was experiencing its worst winter since 1963.\n\nFurther deaths in Wales, Shetland and Aberdeenshire were recorded. Roads in the southeast were left with long traffic jams and abandoned cars. 8,000 schools were closed.\n\nIn Eastern Parts, there were accumulations of 40 cm to 50 cm in places. In Kent, six inches of snow fell in four hours in the early evening.\n\nBy January 7, 2010, 22 people had died in the UK because of the freezing conditions.\n\nHeavy snow blocked many roads in the Irish Republic. Dublin Airport closed on Wednesday January 6 and again on Friday January 9. Cork Airport closed on Sunday January 10, at 6:30 pm and did not re-open until 12:30 pm on Monday January 11. Dublin Bus canceled all services for a time. Ireland West Airport Knock was also closed. A new Irish record low temperature of was also recorded in Dublin, Ireland. Temperatures in County Limerick dropped to . Varying amounts of snow fell across Ireland on the 7th and 8th and road salt reserves began to run low.\n\nThe snow fell heavily in some places of Spain including Prades (Tarragona, southern Catalonia) which received 120 cm of snow after a storm lasting over 30 hours. The BBC News reported heavy snowfall as far south as Granada, in Spain.\n25 Nepalese people, mostly children, died as a blizzard swept over most of Nepal on January 7. Snowstorms probably also occurred in mountainous Bhutan and Sikkim, but no reports were forthcoming.\n\nHeavy snow also fell in Chicago on the 7th \n\nIn Norway, temperatures hit −42 °C on the 7th in the central village of Folldala as snow fell across Scandinavia and at Tynset. on the 8th as Kuusamo in Finland, the lowest registered temperature was . Heavy blizzards and snow storms raged across Germany, Scandinavia and the northwestern parts of European Russia.\n\nIn Poland, more snow hit the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, and nine people died across the country in a 48-hour period, bringing the total weather-related deaths to 139 since the start of November, a police spokesman said. Most of the victims were vagrants, whose tragic lifestyle left them prone to the cold.\n\nSwitzerland's Gotthard Road Tunnel reopened to trucks on the 8th, following heavy snowfalls over the previous 2 days.\n\nA heavy and snowy cyclone hit the Aleutian Islands on January 7 and 8. Snow accompanied a cold wave moving south through North America on January 8, and Mexico City received snowfall accumulations. In the mountainous regions, temperatures dropped to −10 °C, killing nine people. The snow continued to fall on the 10th. Bitter weather may have wiped out some Alaskan reindeer as temperatures and snow depths exceeded those of the extraordinarily harsh winter of 1963 to 1964.\n\nJanuary 7 saw the snow and ice continuing to affect the snow-tormented counties of Oxfordshire, Warwickshire, Buckinghamshire, Gloucestershire and Northamptonshire. Because of the dangerous conditions concerning the build-up of snow and black ice, Banbury Museum, the Cherwell District Council customer service centre and Cherwell District Council tourist information centre were closed. Many Oxfordshire locations had between 1 and 2 ft of unmelted snow by then. Cherwell District Council workers began using a mixture of table salt and sand instead of their diminishing road grit and rock salt supplies.\n\nRecord overnight temperature lows of were recorded in Altnaharra, Caithnessshire, in the Scottish Highlands on the 7th. as another area of low pressure over the North Sea started bringing further fronts of snow over the east of Great Britain on January 7, accompanied with cold, easterly winds. The snow continued in to the 9th and the UK almost ran out of road salt, rock salt, table salt and road grit supplies due to the heavy demand from various agencies and local government bodies.\n\nBy January 7, 2010 twenty-two people had officially died in the UK because of the freezing conditions. The Department of Health wildly overestimated that the cold weather could cause up to 40,000 excess deaths in the UK if it continued much longer. 122 people had already died in Poland, most of them reportedly homeless and 11 had died in Romania. Deaths in Bosnia and Austria luckily stood at only 4, with Kosovo only losing 1 life so far.\n\nThe heavy snowfall across the British Isles between January 6 to 9, resulted in large-scale traffic disruption, closed airports, many canceled trains and hundreds of school closures. A polar low developing in the English Channel brought fronts of snow over southern England before moving south and dissipating. Two middle-aged men died after falling into a frozen lake in Leicester, in the English Midlands. 27 major companies in Britain were ordered to halt using gas on the 9th in order to maintain supplies amid unprecedented levels of demand and major companies had their gas turned off on the 8th, in the first such move since 2003, although there was no immediate danger for households of supplies running out. The Automobile Association, a motor vehicle breakdown service, said they had dealt with about 340,000 breakdowns since December 17, including a local government snow plough that had overturned after it had hit black ice near Huddersfield. A representative from Oxfordshire also confessed to the local media that they had a snowplough breakdown earlier in the day. Several thousand schools remained closed and several of the weekend's Premier League football matches were cancelled.\n\nOvernight temperatures of were recorded in Altnaharra in the Scottish Highlands. Heavy snow fell in the North of England throughout the day giving significant accumulations. A high of −7.7 °C was recorded at Tulloch Bridge.\n\nHeavy snow fell in Denmark on the 8th. By the evening of January 8, the Rügen Islands off the northeast coast of Germany was covered, on average, in 30 centimetres of snow while the capital Berlin was carpeted with snow and ice. Autoclub Europa warned that chaotic traffic conditions could potentially leave large parts of Germany completely paralysed as the country prepared for further freezing conditions as forecasters warned that temperatures would drop below −20 degrees Celsius (−4 degrees Fahrenheit) overnight. German officials had also acknowledged a shortage of grit and fear that high winds and drifting snow had closed may German autoroutes and roads, along with parts of Frankfurt airport. As shortages in road salt and grit were already being feared, while the authorities recommended that people consider stocking up with a few days' worth of food and water. The A5 autoroute leading from Baden-Württemberg into France was closed on Friday afternoon, leading to a queue of hundreds of lorries building up. The road was opened again on Saturday morning, enabling careful drivers to proceed with their journeys. Snow was also proving to be a major problem in Saxony and the Rhineland. The country's nature protection group N.A.B.U. has recommended that people put out food for birds since the cold and snowy weather had ruined their usual feeding patterns.\n\nMeanwhile, some light snow also fell in Kosovo, Udmurtia and Ryazan Oblast, but heavier snow fell in many parts of Ukraine. Temperatures fell as low as −30 °C and −29 °C in parts of Ukraine and similar temperatures occurred in neighbouring parts of Russia. Heavy show would hit Moscow on the 9th.\n\nA husky dog race took place in Thetford on the 8th.\n\nOn Saturday, the 9th of January, Banbury officer PC Paul Froggatt urged people not to try walking on the frozen Oxford Canal by the Castle Quay Shopping Centre in Banbury or in Oxford city. Thames Valley Police had also logged cases of people falling through the ice in Milton Keynes, Bracknell and Aylesbury. One man even tried to drive his car down a part of the frozen canal in Oxford and nearly died after it fell through the ice, while another man died on Teesside as he tried to rescue some puppies that were stranded on melting ice on the River Tees. Oxford City Council also warned of the dangers of playing on the frozen canal and/or frozen lakes.\n\nA new wave of heavy snow was first reported in central and northern of France on the 9th, with both the Cotentin Peninsula and Paris being the worst-affected parts of France. The French government said all non-essential travel should be avoided in these localities. Significant snowfalls caused major delays to train services, blocked roads and some 15,000 people in areas around city of Arles experienced power cuts power lines collapsed under the weight 30 centimetres of snow. Airlines cancelled a quarter of flights on Paris's main Charles de Gaulle airport. Road salt and grit supplies were running low in some districts due to their unexpectedly heavy use.\n\nHeavy rain and melt water caused the worst floods in Albania in nearly 50 years, as 2, 500 homes being evacuated. An artificial lake in the Kosinj valley overflowed after it rose by 8 centimetres in 1 hour. The worst hit areas in Albania were the Shkodra district and to a lesser degree Tirana.\n\nOn January 10, Croatia declared a national flood emergency as the Neretva river valley is flooded. The town of Metkovic was also flooded as the river reached a near-record high level. Northern Croatia also got flooded in related storm system. Heavy hailstorms also hit the Dubrovnik that day.\n\nSnow hit the Czech Republic on January 10.\n\nDuring the early hours of January 10, light snow showers spread across parts of Central England and Wales. The maximum temperature was in Altnaharra and low of was recorded at Kinbrace. On the 11th rain, sleet and snow travelled northwards throughout the early hours. Allenheads in England had fears over a potential snowdrift. A low of was recorded in Altnaharra in Highland Region.\n\nMore than 300 flights were cancelled in the 10th and 11th at Germany's Frankfurt Airport. All three runways were cleared and being used by the 12th despite of light snow falls that day.\n\nThe snowstorms and blizzards of the 11th brought widespread travel chaos to Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Hungary. Airports, Motorways and railways were closed en masse due to heavy snow and ice. Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland, Liechtenstein, the Czech Republic and Slovakia also reported some snowfall.\n\nThe \"Banbury Guardian\" and \"Oxford Mail\" released videos and photos of Oxford and Banbury on the 11th as part of a name and shame campaign against the idiotic people walking on the frozen canal.\n\nJanuary 10 saw heavy snow fall in Chicago.\n\nOn January 10, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa cancelled a trip to Washington to monitor L.A.'s response to the Southern California rainstorms. Villaraigosa had been scheduled to address the U.S. Conference of Mayors' winter meeting at the nation's capital on Wednesday and was going speak about the success of the city's summer jobs program for at-risk youth.\n\nFreezing rain storms battered parts of Sichuan, Yunnan and Hubei, killing dozens of people.\n\nOn January 10, 1 person died and 5,435 were evacuated after a snowstorm in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region according to the Ministry of Civil Affairs. A total of 261,800 people in 12 counties or cities were affected by the blizzards.\n\nOn January 11, intense snowstorms hit a still beleaguered Europe. Many cars and a lorry were stuck in drifting snow near the northern German town of Soehlen. The German transport ministry warned people to travel on essential journey only. Polish authorities reported that there were about 140 hypothermia deaths in Poland, that nearly 50,000 Polish residents without electricity, that the PKP trains were delayed by as much as 9 hours and that most of Poland's homeless shelters were overflowing. Some shops were running out of drinking chocolate. A similar situation was also occurring in the shops and homeless shelters of the Czech Republic. Snow also fell in Belarus.\n\nCoal supplies ran low at power plants as the death toll rose to two in the strong snowstorm in the Altai and temperatures fell to −40 °C on January 12.\n\nOn January 12, heavy snow caused hundreds of accidents, halted flights, and downed power lines in Poland; more than 160 people were trapped overnight on a frozen stretch of German roadway. Hundreds of road accidents were also reported in Germany over the weekend, especially along the Baltic Coast, where two men were killed in a car they were driving when it hit a tree in Nordvorpommern after skidding in the treacherous conditions. Austria, Switzerland and Liechtenstein were also badly hit by snowy and freezing conditions.\n\nBoth the National Beef Association and National Farmers' Union Scotland asked for the Scottish Government to help rebuild steadings, which in some cases are not covered by insurance. Heavy snowfall continued for a second day in Aberdeenshire, Aberdeen and Rutland.\n\nA further 5 to 10 cm of snow fell across the UK during the midday of January 12, including Stafford in Staffordshire. Many schools were once again closed across England and Wales. There were many road accidents and closures; the M25 motorway was down to one lane between Leatherhead and Reigate whilst roads stretching right across southern Great Britain were untreated causing havoc for commuters. Gatwick and Birmingham airports were closed and many flights were delayed at Heathrow.\n\nDuring January 13, the weather system continued north affecting much of Northern England before reaching Scotland.\n\nEight of Oxfordshire's 33,000-volt electricity substations, which were situated in Kennington, Kidlington, Wheatley, Wantage, Deddington, Eynsham, Berinsfield and Cholsey, near Wallingford failed apparently due to an electrical overload, causing several local blackouts; later saboteurs were officially blamed in the damage, and not an overload or mechanical failure as initially thought, according to \"Oxford Mail\". The only way into the Wye Valley on the 13th, was by snow plough, tractor or quad bike. Teachers and parents helped dig out Princes Risborough School as about 6 inches of snow falls across Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire, according to \"Bicester Advertiser\" and \"Bucks Herald\" newspaper. Peter Cornal of Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents and Principal Jonathan Johnson of Aylesbury Vale Academy both warned people not to skate on Watermead Lake in Buckinghamshire.\n\nOn January 14, southerly to south-easterly winds brought bands of snow to northern parts of Britain. An inch of snow fell in Glasgow with further accumulations in areas outside the other towns and cities. Travel was disrupted somewhat.\n\nAbout 440 Welsh schools were either fully or partially closed on Thursday the 14th.\n\nThe English snowfall began to ease on the 14th and the British government ordered an inquiry into the road salt and grit shortage scandal crisis, travel disruption and the poor handling of the disaster by various British companies and agencies.\n\nAs the thaw took hold in the UK and France, rain began to fall across the UK. An 11-year-old girl named Naeemah Achha slid up on a patch of ice outside St. Michael from St. John Primary School in Blackburn, Lancashire on the 14th and died later in Royal Manchester Children's Hospital the next day. Head teacher Kay Cant described her as an intelligent, vivacious, kind and popular girl. Blackburn with Darwen Council's leader Michael Lee described her death as a very shocking incident.\n\nIt was revealed on the 14th that all of the British county councils, London boroughs and unitary authorities were advised by the government to have six days' supplies of road salt in 2009. Up to 30 councils rejected last year's offer of thousands of tonnes of de-icing salt at a reduced price, to use on the roads this winter according to the BBC. The British Salt Director David Stephen made an offer out of the firm's 60,000 tonnes stockpile at Middlewich, Cheshire, in April 2009, but virtually no one to take up the offer. Evidence suggests that only a few took up the government's advice. The Highways Agency had 13 days worth of road salt, while Glasgow, Kirklees, Derbyshire, Derby City, Buckinghamshire, Cherwell District and the London Borough of Harrow took up the offer and raised their stock piles to seven days worth. The Cherwell Borough, Bicester Parish, Oxfordshire, Slough borough, Harrow, Leicestershire, Buckinghamshire, Fife, Brighton and Hove unitary authority, Liverpool city, Pembrokeshire, Lancashire, Belfast city and Perth and Kinross councils nearly to run out of salt. Scotland, Cumbria, Northumbria and Northern Ireland were getting priority access to salt due to the severity of the local landscape and storm activity.\n\nThere were also road closures in Ceredigion including the A4120 at Ponterwyd, and the A4086 at Nant Peris in Gwynedd had been shut down due to hazardous driving conditions. All of Caerphilly's 90 schools and Rhondda Cynon Taf's (RTC) 130 schools either were fully or partially shut except to pupils sitting there. To Wales' Education Minister Leighton Andrews, Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones and the WJEC exam board helped organise the Welsh GCSEs and A-level exam locations. A Merthyr Tydfil exam was held in a local sports centre's hockey arena according to the BBC.\n\nTemperatures of +43.6C were reported in parts of Australia as a heat wave hit most of the country. Heavy rain also fell in parts of Indonesia and Queensland, Australia.\n\nAs the snow cleared from the United States, the British Isles and Europe, rain began to fall in place on the 14th and the snow also began to relent in both China, Korea and Japan on the 15th. Light snow was reported in Latvia on the 14th and 15th.\n\nOn the 15th, Greater Manchester Police said seven people had been injured when 10 cars crashed on the A627(M) in Oldham.\nMet Office severe weather warnings covered Wales and western parts of England and Scotland and snow was forecast for the Pennines and Scottish and Welsh hills. The Environment Agency has warned about flooding in some areas of England and Wales. BBC weather forecaster Sarah Keith-Lucas warned of localised flooding in western parts of the UK caused by melting snow, rain and gale-force winds.\n\nLater on, the Environment Agency warned that heavy rain and snow melting in slightly warmer temperatures meant that there was a risk of some localised flooding from drains, especially in Wales and parts of England, but homes were unlikely to be affected as 15 flood watches were put in place. They warned that flood warnings for possible isolated river flooding in these areas, as heavy rain moves in from the south west on Friday evening. The Met Office and said heavy rain would move in from the west accompanied by strong to gale-force winds on Saturday. The Scottish Environment Protection Agency had five flood watches under way. Thames Valley Police warned motorists about surface flooding and aquaplaning on Oxfordshire's roads.\n\nThe 15th brought rain and thawing to much of southwest England and a pocket around Greater Manchester. In the city of Manchester rain on frozen ground had overnight caused glazed frost which had largely (but not completely) gone by morning, and at midday the clouds were running fast from the south; the January snowfall was melting fast, but the pre-Christmas snowfall, which was trodden had half thawed to slush and then frozen hard to solid ice overnight, was slower to melt. In Scotland the thaw melted fresh snow. Flood warnings were issued.\n\nSnow fell in parts of southern Scotland and Yorkshire on the 16th. The Cairngorm Ski Centre was closed as an army of diggers was trying to clear its car park after further snowfalls. The river Derwent was put under a flood watch in places on the 16th.\n\nOn January 17, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region was given more than 850 tons of grain, edible oil and other daily supplies, 4,950 tons of coal and 900 tons of emergency cattle fodder.\n\nOn January 17, both melting snow, heavy rain and frozen ground have caused flooding in much of England, Scotland and Wales. The Environment Agency issued a total of 23 flood warnings were issued in England, one in force for Scotland and two in Wales. In Scotland a landslide led to the temporally closure of the A76 in Dumfries and Galloway, while a section of the M74 was shut temporally shut due to flooding.\n\nMany properties in Maesteg, Bridgend, Ebbw Vale and Monmouth were also flooded. Mid and West Wales Fire service sent extra appliances to the Carmarthen Bay holiday village at Kidwelly, where the flooding was described as 'major to severe'. The River Wye, River Dee (\"Welsh: Afon Dyfrdwy\") in the lower Dee Valley, River Cherwell (at Banbury) and River Severn were all in full flood.\n\nSevern Trent Water, which provides water to central England and parts of Wales, said it had drafted in extra staff as ruptured and frozen pipes began to thaw. Many pipes had ruptured in the Welsh Marches and a sewerage pipe had become blocked in outer Birmingham. The company's senior operations manager, Fraser Pithie, said the firm had been called out to more than 470 burst and ruptured pipes since the 10th and their call centre staff had taken more than 10,000 calls.\n\nFrom Sunday, January 17 to Saturday, January 24, a series of five very powerful winter storms bore down on the Western United States (especially Southern California), and spread eastward on the 20th which is the atmospheric river storms in California, piling more snow across the Great Plains and even as far as parts of Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 200 homes were evacuated as floods hit parts of California as up to of rain fell in the first of the storms. Rescue and flood prevention services soon got everything under control, but one man was killed when a tree fell onto his house. Two horses died after being hit by lighting in a Santa Barbara field. Rare tornado warnings were enforced in parts of Southern California, including southern Los Angeles, Long Beach, southeastern San Diego County, and Anaheim. Flash flood watches covered Los Angeles, Santa Barbara, and Ventura counties. An EF-0 tornado was reported in southeastern San Diego County that lasted for 1 minute, 30 seconds. Jim Rouiller, the senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc., said that the storms (more specifically, the fifth storm, which was the strongest one) were the worst series of storms since 1997 (the one that caused the ). The fifth storm also neared the record of the lowest pressure system ever experienced in San Diego, registering a minimum pressure of while it was in the Pacific. Rouiller expected that evening's storm to bring from of rain, severe mudslides, a few tornadoes and heavy mountain snow ranging from across the Sierra Nevada. A heavy rain storm hit Santee, California, on January 19.\n\nHeavy rain fell in Oxfordshire and King's Sutton, causing some flooding. The River Cherwell nearly flooded Banbury and parts of Oxford. Light snow fell in the Pennines the 19th.\n\nCalifornia state water officials warned on January 21 that one week of heavy rain and snow was not enough to end the drought, which is entering its fourth year by 2010. According to measurements on the Thursday, the average water content of state's mountain ranges' snowpacks, considered the state's biggest \"de facto\" 'reservoir', was at 107% percent of normal capacity. As the fourth and second strongest of the week's storms slammed into California, officials predicted as much as four feet (1.2 metres) of snow would fall in Northern California.\n\nFreshly fallen snow blanketed the north side of the San Gabriel Mountains on the morning after the fourth storm of the week dissipated on January 23, 2010, northwest of Wrightwood, California. Snow was reported in many parts of California. On January 24, the 5th and strongest storm caused heavy rain fell in parts of Los Angeles. 500 people were evacuated from a small village in La Paz County, Arizona due to a flash flood.\n\nOn January 20, heavy rainstorms wreaked havoc in Haifa, Israel, as snow covered Mount Hermon in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.\n\nBoth Wakehurst Place, near Ardingly, West Sussex and Bedgebury Pinetum, near Lamberhurst in Kent, were damaged. Iain Parkinson, Wakehurst's woodland and conservation manager who has worked on the estate for 23 years, said it was the worst storm he had ever seen in the park.\n\nA new snow storm came over the Peter the Great Gulf, near Vladivostok on January 21. The Onland Mountains and Sikhote-Alin Mountains were buried in snow as the weather system swept through Primorsky and Khabarovsk Krais, Russia. Lake Khanka froze over and was then covered in snow. The ice on the lake was reported to be several inches thick and the snow was spreading into China's Heilongjiang province.\n\nJanuary 21 witnessed the final day of some Banbury schools remaining closed, after 2 weeks of general closure, in which most remained closed throughout the fortnight. The video of people skating and walking on the Oxford Canal was shown on regional TV again, along with a nationwide online version. Heavy rain fell in Oxfordshire, Warwickshire and Leicestershire as light snow fell in the Pennines on the 22nd.\n\nThe snowstorm that began on Friday night, the 22nd was also hitting parts of Bulgaria, where a man suffering from a heart attack died in the country's northeastern region of Silistra, when the ambulance he was being carried on was road that was blocked by several snow drifts. Power, gas and water cuts occurred in Istanbul. In Turkey's western region, near the Greek and Bulgarian borders, villages were cut off and all the major roads were blocked by heavy snow. A bus overturned in Istanbul, injuring 10 people; Bulgarian authorities urged people to avoid travel due to heavy snowfall. Dozens of stranded cars and trucks were abandoned due to heavy snow in eastern Bulgaria and a train was trapped near the border with Romania. Some snow was also reported in neighboring parts of Romania.\n\nA total of four people died on the 24th and 25th as snowstorms hit Turkey. The frozen body of 78-year-old Mehmet Aksit was found outside the small town of Akkisla in central Kayseri province after relatives reported him missing. On the 24th, Nuri Turhan, an 81-year-old Korean War veteran's corpse was found in a mountainous region of Turkey's Aydin province, where he had gotten lost walking the day before and a 75-year-old man died of hypothermia in the northwestern Turkish province of Tekirdag.\nThe 4th person was found dead in a fierce snowstorm that caused power outages in Turkey and traffic chaos in neighbouring Bulgaria on the 25th.\n\nTurkish climatologists working for Istanbul's Natural Disaster Coordination Committee told Turkey's \"Hurriyet Daily News\" that snowfall was predicted to continue until Monday evening and reach about in parts of Istanbul.\n\nIt was revealed that at least 22 people had died due to extremely cold temperatures in Romania in the last five days by January 25.\n\nFrom late 2009 through early 2010, a series of massive snow and ice storms that swept the Dakotas caused a number of Indian Reservations to lose power, heat, and running water for an extended period of time. The storms were most severe in both Ziebach and Dewey counties, South Dakota. The heavy snow, ice storms and low temperatures of January 26 led to Interstate 90 being closed from Chamberlain to the Minnesota border. At nightfall on Monday the 25th, Interstate 29 was closed from Sioux Falls to the North Dakota border.\n\nPower company officials estimated that about 7,600 customers in South Dakota and 100 in North Dakota did not have power on Monday. Some phone systems have also experienced brief telecommunications outages. Kristi Truman, director of the North Dakota Office of Emergency Management was concerned about failing water and power supplies.\n\nPower outages began with a storm in December knocking down around 5,000 power poles, and has been accelerated by an ice storm on January 22 knocking down another 3,000 power lines on the reservation. Among the tribes of South Dakota said to be suffering from the multiple storms are the Cheyenne River Sioux, Crow Creek Sioux Tribe, Flandreau-Santee Sioux Tribe, Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, Rosebud Sioux Tribe, Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate and Standing Rock Sioux Tribe.\n\n\"There's been winters this bad before, but not with rain so bad it freezes the power lines and snaps the poles\", said Joseph Brings Plenty, the 38-year-old chairman of the Cheyenne River Sioux tribe. The worst day was on the 28th, when a Native American froze to death in his home after running out of fuel.\n\nThe reservations were further buffeted by the February 5–6, 2010 North American blizzard, which further depleted foodstocks and exacerbated the power problems.\n\n25 Nepalese people, mostly children, died as a blizzard swept over most of Nepal on January 7. Snowstorms probably also occurred in mountainous Bhutan and Sikkim, but no reports were forthcoming.\n\nOn January 28 floods tore through the River Dnieper's and Prypiat River's floodplains. Climatologists from the Ukrainian Hydro-meteorological Centre warned that the 2010 spring flood could be most severe in the past 10 years and that snow packs in some regions are more than usual. They also told the Ukrainian news agency UKRINFORM that February would bring more snow. Weather forecasters said that the abnormal winter in Ukraine has seen severe snowfalls being replaced with long-lasting frosts and temperatures as low as −30 °C and the predicted flooding was an inevitability, both along the Prypiat River in the Volyn Oblast and in Ternopil Oblast and the River Dnieper in Kiev as the snow layer is twice as high than in recent years.\n\nA stiff frost, temperatures of −2 °C to −3 °C and a light mist occurred in Oxfordshire and western Northamptonshire, during the night as a cold front crossed the UK. Several cars crashed due to skidding on black ice.\n\nOn January 28, blizzards and severe sub-zero temperatures that have killed more than a million livestock in Mongolia would force thousands of herders to migrate to shantytowns near the capital city of Ulan Bator. Extreme winter weather that began in December and followed a hard summer drought that prevented farmers from stockpiling food for their livestock. Dangerously heavy snow and temperatures as low as −40 °C have affected 19 of Mongolia's 21 provinces, with more than 14,000 Mongolian and Chinese Red Cross volunteers across the region scrambling to deliver emergency food aid to impoverished herders who have lost nearly all their cattle.\n\nThe extreme weather had killed more than one million livestock, the herders' main source of income, according to the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) on the 29th. The bad weather has also reduced food security, intensified poverty and increased domestic rural-urban migration for many families. Central Dundgobi Province is one of those in the grip of a 'dzud' event (that is to say a 'major natural disaster'). A local herder named Javzmaa Batbold, a herder in Adaatsag County, Dundgobi province said that 120 of his 500 cattle had died so far. His ger (a traditional Mongolian felt and wood dwelling) was completely covered in snow, and only when the door's side cleared off did it reveal a dwelling lay underneath. The weather became rather extreme as 80 percent of Mongolia's territory was covered by snow, with depths of 20 to 90 centimetres.\n\nThe State Emergency Commission issued an appeal to Mongolia's people to launch a campaign to offer aid to herders and called for the international community to donate food, medicines and equipment as well as funds to help herders. Most cattle in Adaatsag county of Dundgovi Province (Central Gobi), Mongolia died of hypothermia on the 30th. Fuel supplies were also running low.\n\nSnowstorms hit the east coast of the United States and the Sierra Nevada of California on the 30th and 31st.\n\nHeavy snow fell in the German Rhineland on the 30th and 31st. Travel chaos was widespread as the snow spread into Hungary and the rest of Germany.\n\nHeavy snow storms also hit Luxembourg on January 31.\n\nThe 30th saw heavy snow storms hit the East Coast of America.\n\nA nor'easter dumped tons of snow over much of central and eastern parts of the United States. The nor'easter unleashed heavy snow over the Central United States, and left some places with over of snow. It then moved eastward and made a sly turn up the coast of America, and left some places with over 12 inches of snow on Saturday, January 30, 2010. Rain and floods also hit Southern California. 6 inches of rain and temperatures of 15 °C were recorded at Long Beach and L.A. on the 31st.\n\nOn February 1, the Chinese government aid arrived in Mongolia and included 10 million Yuan's (1.46 million U.S. dollars') worth of food, portable power generators and quilts. Mr. Miyeegombyn Enkhbold, Deputy Prime Minister of Mongolia and head of the State Emergency Commission, said the aid given showed an embodiment of brotherhood between China and Mongolia, and Chinese Ambassador Yu Hongyao said he was confident that Mongolians would overcome the disaster in time. It was said to be the worst snow storms in both Mongolia and Inner Mongolia in at least 30 years. The Red Cross Society of China has also announced a donation of 30,000 dollars for Mongolia, and Kazakhstan sent several hundred tonnes of food aid to the country. Mongolia formally requested aid from the United Nations on the 2nd, after the extreme cold is calculated to have killed about 3% of the nation's 44,000,000 head of cattle thus far.\n\nOn February 1, utility crews were working overtime to get power back to the 14,000 residents of Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation. The wind chill factor averaged about −25° and there was about 1-foot of snow on the ground on average.\n\nA powerful Alberta clipper-type storm came from the north and headed towards an area of moist air left over from the previous day's thunderstorm over the Midwest on February 1, and was merging over central North America. It was estimated that it could potentially drop up to 6 inches on the Canadian Prairies and North Dakota initially and eventually add 2 more inches as it hung around overnight.\n\nFebruary 1 saw the earlier Californian storm track its way through northern Mexico and New Mexico. It would shortly hit the east coast and cause chaos in the Washington, D.C., Virginia and Maryland areas by the February 6.\n\nA cyclone and heavy rain-induced floods hit the Canary islands on February 1 and 2. An unusual event dropped 82 mm of rain and flooded out 27,000 homes over a 24-hour period. Some mobile phones become inoperable due to storm-related interference and power supplies were cut overnight in some places. The average February rainfall is only 36 millimetres.\n\nFebruary 4 saw the worst winter in Beijing in 50 years, worst in Seoul in 70 years.\n\nThe snow and frost activity was proving to be exceptionally bad that winter across northern India. Official reports suggest that the states of Punjab, Bihar, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have borne the brunt of the freezing temperatures in India.\n\nOfficials at Canada's Vancouver Games were also worried about the lack of snow and frost as the city experienced its warmest January ever as the temperature never went below −2 °C. The average daily high and low for January 2010 was 9.7 and 4.3 °C at the airport, which was way above the average high of 5 °C and the average low of −1 °C for January. No snow was also recorded in January compared to an average of about 17 cm and an average snow depth of 1 cm.\n\nThe east coast had records various record low temperatures in southern states such as Georgia Alabama and Florida in the US.\nThe eastern seaboard, had like the Western Seaboard also suffered one of the worst winters on record. An already snow bound Washington, D.C. was expected to receive up to another 20 inches of snow that weekend. Snow was also threatening the American football championship event known as the Super Bowl.\n\n11 were killed by avalanches in Farah, Bamyan, Ghor and Daykundi provinces between the 4th and the 8th a spokesman of the Afghanistan National Disasters Management Authority said. The Afghan flash floods and avalanches left 20 others dead in the rest of the country on February 8. The provincial authorities had summoned an emergency meeting and loya Jurga to discuss responses on February 8. Both Shah Wali Kot and Shorandam districts were the worst affected. Afghanistan generally expects about 400,000 people every year, according to experts at the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).\n\nA series of avalanches caused by a storm in eastern Afghanistan killed 172 people on February 8 and 9.\n\nPower outages in both the Dakotas now covered only 100 rural electric customers and minimal numbers in Bismarck, North Dakota by February 5.\n\nThe second big snowstorm of the winter hammered the Washington, D.C. area on February 5. The El Niño phenomenon was blamed for the unusually high sea surface temperatures in the Pacific Ocean that moved east, thus pulling rainfall along with it. Normally, El Niño brings increased rainfall across the east-central and eastern Pacific, leading to drier than normal conditions over northern Australia, Indonesia and the Philippines.\n\nThe storm created historic snowfall totals in the Middle Atlantic states, rivaling the Knickerbocker Storm of 1922, as well as extensive flooding and landslides in Mexico. The blizzard stretched from Mexico and New Mexico to New Jersey, killing forty-one people in Mexico, New Mexico, Maryland, Virginia and other places along its track.\n\nSome places across Eastern West Virginia, Maryland, Northern Virginia, Washington, D.C., and Delaware were buried in between of snow, causing air, rail, and Interstate highway travel to come to a halt. On February 6, authorities said about 4 inches of rain fell in Hollywood Hills and 3.2 inches in Santa Barbara.\n\nThe snow storms of February 6 and 7 left record levels of snow in many cities. Approximately of snow had fallen by midday on Saturday. The mayor of Washington, D.C., and the governors of Virginia and Maryland declared states of emergency as the storm hit both Washington, D.C., Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Amtrak canceled several trains between New York and Washington, D.C., and also between Washington, D.C. and some southern destinations. The storm arrived less than two months after a December storm dumped more than of snow in Washington, D.C.. Many power outages were also reported in the city.\n\nFebruary 7 saw yet more major power outages in the Washington, D.C. region. At least 420,000 homes were under a blackout as the snow felled trees and cut power lines. Some 300,000 homes were without electricity in Maryland and neighboring Virginia, while Washington, D.C. was reporting an initial figure of 100,000 power outages for that day. Emergency workers struggled to restore power as of snow and a record snowfall of fell on Maryland. Transport was badly disrupted from West Virginia to southern New Jersey. Washington, D.C., Virginia and Maryland have declared a short term state of emergency, allowing them to activate the National Guard in order to help cope with the storm's onslaught.\n\nA father and daughter of McKeesport were killed by carbon monoxide poisoning after improperly using a domestic petrol generator after a power outage. On February 7 two children drowned trying to cross the swollen Chapulin River in the central state of Guanajuato, and other child deaths occurred in Angangueo, Zitácuaro, and Ocampo. In total, twenty-eight deaths in the states of Michoacán, Mexico State, and the Distrito Federal (Mexico City) in Mexico have been attributed to the storm on February 6 and 7.\n\nOn the 7th 10 people are dead in across Kandahar Province according to the Afghan Red Crescent Society (ARCS). Najibullah Barith, ARCS's director in Kandahar complained of lack of the local and national resources.\n\nA series of avalanches caused by a storm in eastern Afghanistan killed 172 people on February 8 and 9.\nOn the 7th 10 people are dead in across Kandahar Province according to the Afghan Red Crescent Society (ARCS). Najibullah Barith, ARCS's director in Kandahar complained of lack of the local and national resources.\n\n11 were killed by avalanches in Farah, Bamyan, Ghor and Daykundi provinces between the 4th and the 8th a spokesman of the Afghanistan National Disasters Management Authority said. The Afghan flash floods and avalanches left 20 others dead in the rest of the country on February 8. The provincial authorities had summoned an emergency meeting and loya Jurga to discuss responses on February 8. Both Shah Wali Kot and Shorandam districts were the worst affected. Afghanistan generally expects about 400,000 people every year, according to experts at the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).\n\nA series of avalanches caused by a storm in eastern Afghanistan killed 172 people on February 8 and 9.\n\nThe 2010 Salang avalanches consisted of a series of at least 36 avalanches that struck the southern approach to the Salang tunnel north of Kabul, Afghanistan on February 8 and 9 in 2010, burying over two miles of road, killing at least 172 people and trapping over 2,000 of travellers. They were caused by a freak storm in the Hindu Kush mountains located in Afghanistan.\n\nSeveral heavy avalanches killed 15 and on a highway north of Kabul killed at least 15 and injured 55 on February 8 and 9, according to the Afghan Ministry of Public Health (MoPH). A few other avalanches and landslides also hit other parts of the snow laden Hindu Kush at this time.\n\n60 died and hundred were still missing on February 9 a treacherous mountain pass in Afghanistan series of avalanches smashed into and badly damaged an long Soviet-built Salang tunnel after several days of heavy snow in the Hindu Kush. Afghan Interior Minister, Hanif Atmar 24 dead were found and 40 more were feared dead. The Defence Minister, Abdul Rahim Wardak said 3,000 people had been trapped in vehicles along the mountain pass, that is at an altitude , but about 2,500 were rescued later that day. The road passengers got trapped in their vehicles outside of the Salang Tunnel, 9 miles north of Kabul. The International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) sent 2 helicopters to help evacuate people and drop essential supplies, a spokesman for the Afghanistan National Disasters Management Authority (ANDMA) said. Only helicopters and pack horses could get there.\n\nA powerful Alberta clipper from western Canada and moist air from a line of thunderstorms over the mid-western United States merged over the central US on the 7th. In some places this dropped over the Central and Eastern United States, much of it over areas already hit by the previous blizzard. was expected to fall on Washington, D.C., and up to of snow was forecast from New York City northward into New England. Several inches of snow fell in both Washington, D.C. and New York City on the night of February 10 and 11.\n\nOn February 8, there was nearly of snow recorded at Reagan National Airport, and nearby Dulles International Airport recorded a local record of . The storms were dubbed \"Snowmageddon\", by US president Barack Obama, after an SUV in his motorcade carrying journalists was damaged by a snapped limb, injuring one person. An area all the way from Pennsylvania to New Jersey, across the BosWash corridor and south down to Virginia, was under at least of snow. Parts of Northern Maryland had . The storm killed three people.\n\nSnow began to fall throughout Oxfordshire, North London, and Bavaria on February 8 and February 10. Heavy winds and snow flurries also hit parts of Leicestershire, Northamptonshire, in Turkey, and Amur Krai, on February 9. 1 person suffered moderate injuries after slipping on ice in one of the rural northern districts of Amur Krai. On February 10 a deep cyclone formed over the Adriatic Sea bringing heavy snowfall over large parts of Bulgaria, Serbia, Macedonia and lesser parts of Romania. Severe weather warnings have been issued in these countries. In Western Bulgaria it snowed non-stop for more than 48 hours, with up to a metre of snow accumulation in Kyustendil.\n\nUnited States federal government activities were ground to a halt by the, in some places 3 ft deep, snowfall in Washington, D.C. on the 10th.\n\nFebruary 11 saw heavy snow east coast USA, but power workers resorted electricity supplies to 100,000 users in Maryland on February 11 and some more was predicted for the next day.\n\nOn the 11th, about least of snow fell in some areas, and strong winds caused drifting in places across Kent and East Sussex. Snow also fell in Sheffield, Berkshire, Brighton and the Grampian Mountains. Dover's coastguard helped dig out a stranded ambulance in the town. Kent County Council said all primary routes and secondary routes where possible had been gritted on Wednesday afternoon ahead of the snow showers. Kent Fire and Rescue Service said it was helping some motorists stuck in snow drifts in parts of the county including Margate, Dover and Lydd. Chief Inspector Simon Black, of Kent Police, said that all main routs were passable, but some were down to a single snow-free lane and BBC Radio Kent said that drivers should make essential journeys. Also 4 of its 4x4 vehicles were helping to transfer staff and patients to and from hospitals in Eastbourne and Hastings, in East Sussex. The exit slip road off the M20, at junction 11a, closed because of the snow. A Dover lad was moderately burnt after spilling paraffin he was trying to put into a portable domestic generator unit that day.\n\nFollowing a storm in the southeast United States on February 12–13, snow was on the ground simultaneously in all 50 U.S. states, an event believed never to have occurred previously. Snow was confirmed in 49 states by February 13, and small patches of remnant snow on the north face of Mauna Kea in Hawai'i were confirmed soon after. The snow on February 12–13 forced the cancellation of Bi-Lo Myrtle Beach Marathon XIII after the 5k portion had been run the previous night. A record depth of 12.5 inches of snow fell within 24 hours in the Dallas–Fort Worth urban metro on the 13th. The result of the massive snowstorm led to whole school districts being shut down and over 200,000 buildings were left without power, and forced to use fire and candles to light and heat their homes. A 1 ft tall wind-induced wave swept 3 people off of various southern Californian beaches on the 14th, slightly injuring one. Light snow fell in both parts of Hampshire and Fife, and heavily in the mountainous regions of Sakhalin Island on the 15th. About 1800 out of 2400 flights at Hartsfield Jackson Atlanta Airport were cancelled on February 13. Numerous minor car accidents happened all around the Metro Atlanta area.\n\nModerate amounts of snow fell in Gwent and Northamptonshire on the 16th. Weather forecasters warned of more snow predicted across South East Wales and parts of Central England. Moderate snow fall was reported in both Oxfordshire, Northamptonshire, Leicestershire, the Malvern Hills, Pembrokeshire, Bristol, Aberdeenshire and Greater London on February 17 and 18. The various London Authorities warned of growing travel chaos in London on the 18th.\n\nOver two inches of snow had fallen in part of Gwent, Pembrokeshire and Gloucestershire on the 18th. The roadways in the Gloucestershire town of Dursley had been quickly covered in snow that as a cold weather front moved over the west of the county of Gloucestershire, Chief Inspector Steve Porter, of Gloucestershire Constabulary told motorists to take care and warned that many roads including the B4221 at Gorsley and the A4136 at Longhope had had major accidents. Most of the roads would be closed due to heavy snow for the next few days. Moderate amounts of snow also fell in part of Oxfordshire and Northamptonshire on the 19th.\n\nHeavy snowfall occurred in Wales and the Midlands between February 18 and 20.<ref name=\"Review of UK weather on 18/02/10\"></ref><ref name=\"Review of UK weather on 19/02/10\"></ref><ref name=\"Review of UK weather on 20/02/10\"></ref> including in the Welsh town of Pant Glas, Gwynedd between the 18th and 20th.\n\nHeavy snow in Ireland forced the cancellation of the National Hurling League (NHL) hurling match between Kilkenny and Tipperary at Semple Stadium in Thurles on February 20. A horse racing meeting in Naas was abandoned due to heavy snow the following day.\n\nLight snow fell in Oxfordshire overnight on the 20th and 21st, causing minor traffic disruption. Manchester Airport was heavily disrupted late on the 20th, closed at 7.10am on the 21st, but opened later that morning after much heavy work clearing the snow off of the runways. Flights were still disrupted by midday.\n\nA Eurostar train, with between 700, 740 and 800 passengers on board, broke down in Kent due to the extremely cold weather and heavy snow in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Paris-to-London service eventually left Gare du Nord railway station in Paris two hours late at about 8.15pm UK time\nafter an unattended bag caused a security alert. Everything was going according to plan, until they were two minutes away from Ashford at 10.15 pm, when the train suddenly stopped, the lights flicked briefly and all power failed, leaving the victims in complete darkness at around 10.45 pm. Passengers reported that the lighting was flickering on and off in a \"very spooky manner\" throughout the journey, until the Eurostar suddenly stopped, and the lights finally went out completely. It then became stiflingly hot inside the train as the ventilation system shut down due to the power outage on board the stricken Eurostar train. The chaos grew when most of the toilets stopped working and the staff struggled to find emergency lighting switches. Eventually the train manager walked through all the train carriages, using his emergency torch, announcing that another train and a bus were being sent to rescue them. Passengers carrying luggage then had to clamber down ladders onto the tracks and then back up onto the rescue train that arrived alongside the failed one. The rescue train arrived at St Pancras just after 2.30am on the 22nd, more than four-and-a-half hours later than the scheduled arrival time and the bus also took a few to Ashford, where they took local trains to London. Eurostar technical spokesman, Mr. Bram Smets, said it has stopped in what he described as a \"major technical problem\". Eurostar has launched a probe into the breakdown which left passengers stranded for 4 hours.\n\nBetween 6am and 11am local time (and UTC), of rain was recorded at Funchal weather station and of rain at the weather station on Pico do Areeiro. The average rainfall in Funchal for the whole of February is . Damage was confined to the southern half of the island.\n\nAbout 42 people were reported dead and about 68 to 100 injured as rain-induced floods and mudslides hit the Portuguese island of Madeira on the 20th, local authorities said. The floodwaters tore down buildings, overturned cars and knocked down trees.\nThe local civil protection service declared that it was \"overwhelmed\" by emergency calls, according to a duty police officer in an interview with a journalist from the Reuters news agency. According to Portuguese media, the storms were the deadliest on the east Atlantic island since prior to October 1993, when 8 people died and 19 were injured.\n\nThe Portuguese military sent specialist rescue teams to the island of Madeira on the 21st, when it was estimated that least 38 people were known to have died in the most extreme rainstorms in 17 years as tonnes of mud and stones brought down the slopes of the island, flooding the streets of the regional capital, Funchal, and other towns. All utilities were knocked out across large swathes of the island. Ribeira Brava was also badly flooded on the 21st. Portuguese Prime Minister Jose Socrates, who was in Madeira, ordered an immediate rescue and aid mission for the island. Portuguese President Cavaco Silva expressed his condolences in a televised statement.\n\nA Portuguese Navy supply ship, with a helicopter, food and medical equipment was sent to the islands that lie about 900 km/560miles from the Portuguese mainland. The Island is very popular with foreign tourists. Officials from the Portuguese Department of Emergencies said that emergency teams, 56 military rescuers, search dogs and 36 firefighters were being sent to the island straight away.\n\nThe Island's authorities and the local civil protection board told CNN that one British tourist was missing. 10 British music students from a religious school in the Channel Islands were found alive in Funchal along with an Irish tourist as the city is thrown into meteorological chaos. Local authorities informed the AFP news agency that 70 people were hospitalized.\n\nOn February 22, 102 to 120 were confirmed injured and 42 were confirmed dead in Madeira. 2 British tourists were among the dead.\n\nHeavy snow fell in Oxfordshire, the English Midlands and Merseyside on the 23rd and heavy snow fell in the Scottish Highlands on the 24th.\n\nOn February 24, a meteorological state of emergency was declared in 21 Mongolia's provinces due to the exceptionally cold conditions. It is purported to be the coldest snap for 50 years and that a person has already died of hypothermia.\nA major winter storm started plowing its way through upstate New York, southern Vermont and Berkshire County, Massachusetts on the 23rd. Colonie, New York saw a total of 17 inches of snow. Hancock, Massachusetts had seen 9.5 inches, with the forecast total at 10-15 inches, and Stamford, Vermont had seen 9 inches.\n\nSalem County, New Jersey was hit by heavy snow fall on the 24th, and 4 to 12 inches of snow were predicted to fall the next day by weather forecasters. Just under 1,000,000 were left without electricity in New England, Pennsylvania and New York.\n\nOn February 23, snow fell in Southeast Texas. Snow accumulated in counties north of Houston such as Conroe, Texas, which received 2 inches of snow. Huntsville, Texas had seen about 2 to 3 inches as well as College Station. Only a trace of snowfall fell in Houston, Texas.\n\nA winter storm warning was issued for counties north of Houston, while Houston had a winter weather advisory.\n\nThe extreme winter storm spun around the Northeast by the 25th. Oneonta, New York had seen of snow from this storm. New York City had seen , and Philadelphia had seen of snow. Washington, D.C. and Baltimore had remained under light rain. Boston has seen of rain from this storm, and was reported in Belfast, Maine. Major flooding prevailed along coastal New England. The Shawsheen River at Wilmington, Massachusetts was at 8 feet above its banks, and the Merrimack River at Amesbury, Massachusetts was at 20 feet above banks. On Friday morning and night, most of Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Maine were without power. Sustained winds of up to 65 mph pounded the Cape Ann area of eastern Massachusetts. Wind gusts of up to 95 mph were reported in Gloucester, Massachusetts and Rockport, Massachusetts. Millions of trees were felled in the wind from Providence to Bangor. Boston received 52 mph sustained winds and 74 mph gusts. Between February 25 and 26 flood warnings covered most of Rhode island, the Pawtuxet River valley, Boston and Norfolk County in eastern Massachusetts. Orange County, New York saw 2 to 3 feet of snow in Montgomery and Bullville.\n\nWidespread snowfall across Scotland brought extreme disruption. 61 cm of snow was recorded in Aviemore as hundreds of people were stranded in cars in Dunblane. Schools and transport services were disrupted. Two people died in Glencoe in an avalanche. Temperatures reached −19.2 °C in Braemar. Some people in Perthshire were stranded in their cars for 17 hours. 45,000 homes in Scotland were left without power. 30 schools were closed on the 25th.\n\nOn February 26, heavy snow hit New York and more was forecast for the next day.\nOn February 27, unusually heavy monsoon rains hit Haiti. 11 people died the town in Les Cayes, 3 died in the village of Torbeck,\n5 died in the village of Les Cayes's Gelee as rain induced mudslides and flood waters hit them.\nIn January 2010, heavy rain caused flooding which buried or washed away roads and railways leading to the ancient city of Machu Picchu, trapping over 2,000 tourists in addition to 2,000 locals. Machu Picchu was temporarily closed, but it reopened on February 28, 2010. Peru's rail crew has been hard at work since then, and Machu Picchu reopened to tourists on April 1, 2010.\n\n51 were killed, 59 injured and 12 are missing in France, 6 killed in Germany, 3 killed and 2 severely injured in Spain, 1 killed in Portugal, 1 in Belgium, 1 in the Netherlands and 1 in England as heavy rainstorms hit the Bay of Biscay and central France on the 27th. Winds of up to caused chaos as the storm moved from Portugal up through the Bay of Biscay, while a maximum gust of in Spain and in France were recorded. Both Belgium and Denmark were hit by heavy rainstorms overnight as the windstorm moved further northeast. The storm system moved across the Massif Central into the Brittany peninsula, and areas of France bordering Belgium and Germany are on alert for heavy rain and high winds. An Italian was also injured when a hurricane-force wind capsized his yacht off the coast of Portugal. The French President Nicolas Sarkozy expressed his condolences to relatives of victims, and said that he would visit the stricken area on Monday. The French Prime Minister François Fillon said France would formally declare the storm a natural disaster, freeing up funds to help communities rebuild themselves. Rail services were severely affected in northern Spain and a number of trains in western France were delayed because of flooded tracks in southern and western France. British Airways canceled several flights and Air France said 100 of its flights had been cancelled from Charles de Gaulle airport in Paris. Wind speeds hit 175 km/h at the top of the Eiffel Tower, French radio reported on the 28th. The French meteorological service said that shortly after 1700 local time (1600 GMT) the storm passed into Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, and there also were reports of high winds in the Swiss Alps on March 1. Spain's Canary Islands, particularly La Palma, Gran Canaria and Tenerife, were also hit by the storm, although there was no great damage. The French Departments of Vendée and Charente-Maritime were in ruins and over 1 million homes lost electricity supplies. Television, radio and mobile phone service were also disrupted in some places.\n\nOn February 28, the French storms killed 7 people who drowned in various villages in the Vendée region, while 3 seniors and a child were found dead in Charente Maritime near La Rochelle. A man was killed by a falling tree branch in the south-western town of Luchon, where winds reached 90 mph. At least five other people were reported missing and dozens others injured and a kid died in Northern Portugal 5 people were missing and 1 was injured in Aytre. The French Interior Minister Brice Hortefeux declared the storm as a natural catastrophe. The Météo France weather agency predicted the storm was by then heading towards Denmark.\n\nIt was confirmed on March 1 that 45-52 (reports vary) French people had died, and that the French government had launched an equine in to why the incident had been so disastrously mishandled. especially around La Rochelle and L'Aiguillon-sur-Mer. Nicolas Sarkozy visited the coastal town of Aiguillon-sur-Mer, the hardest hit area of France where a total 25 had died in the storm.\n\nThe 2010 Queensland floods saw inundation of the towns of Charleville, Roma, St George and Theodore among others. The floods were caused by rainfall generated by a monsoon trough described by a Bureau of Meteorology forecaster as \"almost like a tropical cyclone over land\". Over the period March 1–3, rainfall totals of between were observed in the area. This water ran into already saturated rivers and creeks in the area. Losses from cotton crops destroyed at Theodore and the area around St George and Dirranbandi are expected to be significant.\n\nThe floods, described by the Queensland Minister for Primary Industries Tim Mulherin as the \"worst flood in 120 years\" are however expected to provide a billion dollar boost to the local economy, following the \"worst drought since Federation\" The floods have seen a large increase in the Australian plague locust population and the Australian Plague Locust Commission is concerned the locusts will head south and destroy what is expected to be a bumper winter grain crop. On March 21,\nThe 2010 Uganda landslide occurred in the district of Bududa in eastern Uganda on 1 March 2010. The landslide was triggered by heavy rain between 12 pm and 7 pm that day. At least 100 people were believed to have been killed.\n\nThe Ugandan Red Cross stated that rescuers had recovered 50 bodies, whilst a Ugandan government minister has put the death toll at over 100. The chairman of the eastern Bududa district suggested that the death toll could be as high as 300. The landslide struck villages on the slopes of Mount Elgon, including Nameti, Kubewo, and Nankobe. Officials and aid workers have warned that there may be further landslides, as heavy rain continues to fall in the region.\n\nAirTran Airways cancelled several flights out of Atlanta Airport due to bad weather on March 1 and 2.\n\nOn March 1, the Environment Agency issued 169 flood warnings in over East Anglia, Yorkshire, Wrexham, Tyne and Wear, Cambridgeshire, Bedfordshire, Oxfordshire, Kent and West Sussex. The Thames Flood Barrier closed twice in less than 24 hours to protect London from a combined high tide and tidal surge in the Thames estuary, where it had been predicted that the water would rise by another 50 cm. Andy Batchelor, Tidal Area Flood Risk Manager, said that the Thames Barrier would close yet again should we need to protect the 1.25 million people living and working in London's floodplain.\n\nOn March 2, heavy snowstorms struck the Virginias and parts of Maryland.\n\nThe Ewaso Nyiro River in Kenya burst its banks and flooded a safari park's guest house on the 3rd, killing nine people.\n\nOn March 4, 20 people died in Afghanistan, when an avalanche struck 2 villages in the Wakhan Mountains.\n\nSeveral dozen ships, some with nearly one thousand passengers were stranded in rapidly forming sea ice due to cold weather and strong winds in the Gulf of Bothnia, between Sweden and Finland and near the Baltic Sea. Some of the ships were freed by icebreakers on March 5.\n\nOn March 5, 20,000 people were left homeless when flood-induced landslides struck Bududa, Uganda.\n\nThe 2010 Victorian storms were a series of storms that passed through much of the Australian state of Victoria on March 6 and 7, 2010. One of the most severe storms passed directly over Greater Melbourne, bringing lightning, flash flooding, very large hail and strong winds to the state's capital. It was described as a \"mini-cyclone\".\n\nOn March 8, Catalonia saw its heaviest snowfall in 25 years; up to 50 centimetres fell in Barcelona. Over 200,000 residents of North-Eastern Spain were left without power, and up to 500 passengers were evacuated from a train travelling to Southern France, which also was experiencing blizzard conditions, with many schools closing. Nîmes and Perpignan were the worst-hit.\n\nA state of emergency was declared in Northern Spain, on the 10th of March, due to the unseasonal blizzards. Forty roads in France were closed with snow reportedly 3 ft deep in some areas. Italy also experienced the effects of the Arctic blast; there was traffic chaos in Siena, Assisi and Pisa, with snowstorms stretching as far south as Rome. On the sunshine island of Majorca, havoc ensued with 6 major roads closing, due to unseasonal snowfall.\n\nOn March 10, transportation and power supplies were disrupted by blizzards around Zagreb, hurricanes around Rijeka and a mixture of both in Dalmatia. Both Istria, the northern Adriatic coast and Lika, had electricity supply problems, according to Croatian Power Company (HEP).\n\nHeavy rain and rapid snow-melt contributed to the failure of the Kyzyl-Agash dam in Kazakhstan on March 11, killing more than 40 people.\n\nOn March 12, about 4,000 people were made homeless by floods in the Kazakh towns of Almaty, Kyzyl-Agash, and Zhylbulak. A total of 30 people had been confirmed dead as the flood waters from, the dam that had burst on the 12th reached 2 meters deep on March 13.\n\nThe American military officials closed Misawa Air Base on March 10, as a blizzard swept across northern Japan, dumping a record-setting 20 inches of snow on the base by mid-afternoon. A cyclone with snowstorms approached Kamchatka coast from the Sea of Okhotsk on the 13th and preceded to move inland by the 15th, after which the storms died out in Eastern and Central Kamchatka with no casualties. The Ust-Bolsheretsk, Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky and Yelizovo districts of Kamchatka were badly hit by the high wind and snowfall.\nThe fourth major winter storm to strike the East coast of the United States caused widespread flooding, severe beach erosion, and tree and structural damage from Virginia to Maine on the 13th. The storm killed at least nine people, and left over 1 million without electricity. After the storm, severe to record flooding occurred at the Pawtuxet River in Rhode Island and along the upper tributaries of the Mississippi River.\n\nOn March 16, BBC Weather reported that areas of Portugal and Spain witnessed the highest recorded levels of precipitation, since World War II.\n\nAustralia faced the worst flooding in 60 years as 134 people in the small rural town of Wanaaring, just south of the Queensland/New South Wales border, remains cut off on the 18th. The Paroo River peaked at 4.8 meters and broke its banks on the 17th.\n\nA major sandstorm Kano in northern Nigeria on the morning of March 19. The whole federal state was filled with sandstorms. All flights into and out of the federal state were cancelled amid softy fears. Similar events occurred over the border in the drought hit Niger. The Harmattan wind caused others in Mauritania. Rain fall had paradoxically gone down in the African Sahel region as it went up in most other parts of the World.\n\nCyclone Ului made landfall in southeastern Queensland on the 21st, producing heavy rains and flooding.\n\nAfter nearly a month of flooding in the Croatian Kosinj Valley has been the centre of about 11 million Kuna/ (1,514,000 Euros) worth of damage in the region of Lika, Croat officials said on the 22 of March.\n\nHeavy sandstorms hit Beijing between March 20 and 22. On March 23, a major storm sweeps of the lens west of the Bohai Sea and the Yellow Sea, and finally falls on the North Korea and South Korea. The Xinjiang, Shanxi, Shaanxi and Hebei regions were already faceing drought and sandstorms earlier this month.\n\nA major sandstorms hit both Mauritania, Senegal, the Gambia, Guinea Bissau, Guinea and inland Sierra Leone. Another gets southern Algeria, inland Mauritania, Mali and northern Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nA major hail storm hit Perth, Western Australia, more than 158,000 houses were blacked out at the height of the storm and estimates on the insurance damage are over a $1 billion.\n\nThe UK was expecting one last shot at winter a huge snow storm is expected to drive up from the South West with rain turning to snow Midlands northwards. The UK Met Office has issued severe weather warnings for the following regions:\nNorthern Ireland, North West England, Wales, Yorkshire & Humber, West Midlands, S.W. Scotland, Lothian and Borders, East Midlands and North East England. Temperatures are expected to go sub zero once again. Snow is forecast from Cardiff, Wales northwards. The warnings come a day after top British meteorologists from outside the UK Met Office predicted the UK's hottest summer on record for 2010 on the 28th.\n\nSnow fell in Scotland on March 30, stranding drivers on a motorway leaving them to dig out their cars, the MetOffice released weather alerts for only Scotland and Northern Ireland as the south wasn't as cold as forecasted however heavy snow is falling on higher ground in England and Wales, however temperatures in the South West of the UK fell dramatically around lunch time of the 30th of march and snow is falling in some areas in South Wales and South West England.\n\nThe Met Office updated its warnings on March 30, the following areas of the UK are in severe weather warnings; Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. The Met Office has also issued extreme weather warnings of Severe Blizzards, Severe Drifting Snow & Very Heavy Snowfall in Western Northern Ireland and North East Scotland where 40–50 cm of snow is now forecasted to fall with drifts over 5 feet tall. Heavy thunder storms hit parts of Hampshire and temperatures begin to rise in Southern England and Greater London.\n\nOn March 31, 48,000 Northern Irish, 24,000 Scottish and 150 Irish homes are without power as heavy snow falls in both Northern Ireland, parts of Staffordshire, and Scotland's Southern Uplands. About 300 people are freed by rescue services when 120 vehicles ventured out during a blizzard in County Londonderry's Glenshane Pass. Sadly, 17-year-old Natasha Paton, from Cleghorn in southern Lanarkshire dies as the coach she was in skids and crashes in the snow on the A73 road, outside Wiston, also in southern Lanarkshire. She was om a trip to visit Alton Towers, Staffordshire on a trip from Biggar in Lanarkshire, that was organised by Lanark Grammar School The UK Met Office has issued severe weather warnings for the next day in the following regions:Northern Ireland, Northern England, Wales and Scotland.\n\nThe storm follows the coldest winter in decades to hit the UK and this is the second most severe storm to hit the UK this year, the most severe was the January 6 snowfall in Southern England and South Wales, despite lower snow depth of 40 cm the south is less prepared and has a higher population density than Northern Ireland and Scotland so caused more chaos and damage to the UK economy. First Great Western closed both Islip railway station and Bicester Town railway station for part of the day due to heavy snow fall on exposed stretches of track. Snow also causes travel disruption for buses and cars in South Glamorgan.\n\nBoth the Rhone and the Danube begin to swell at their upper sections due to heavy rain and snow related melt water on the 31st.\n\nOn March 31, the UK Met Office issued severe weather warnings for April 1 in the following regions: Northern Ireland, Northern England, Wales and Scotland. Heavy rain fell in Banbury and moderate snow fell in Scotland on the 2nd.\n\nApril 1 and 2 had temperatures plummet to minus 50 degrees in Mongolia's Tuul valley, The peasant villager Urna said she bought \"400 bundles of grass and tons of feed so that we would be ready\" for any further bad weather. According to the Mongolian Red Cross have reported that about 4,500,000 head of livestock perished as a result of the bad weather this year. Tume, who lives in Ulan Bator said that he had noticed that there were several particle harsh winters in a row to. He blamed climate change, but experts said that overgrazing by cattle had also child of most of the country's grassland.\nThe April 2010 Rio de Janeiro floods and mudslides are an extreme weather event that has affected the State of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil in the first days of April 2010. At least 212 people have died, 161 people have been injured (including several rescuers), while at least 15,000 people have been made homeless. Meteolagists exspessed concern over the intensity of the storms and there aftermath. The worst part was on the 5th and 6th.\n\nTwo buildings suddenly fell into the River Buriganga in Nababerchar city's Kamrangirchar district during a heavy storm on April 17, 2010. Bangladeshi police claimed the foundations were weakened by illegal lifting of sand by local sand traders.\n\nHeavy rain also hit the borders of Armenia and Azerbaijan in the evening.\n\nA major snowstorm hit New England after the western side of a low pressure system sank southward from eastern Ontario on April 27, merging with part of a second low. Vermont was hit with the most snow, which totalled as much as . Close to 30,000 customers were left without power.\n\nSnow fell east of the Rocky Mountains in southern Alberta as the cold sector of a storm dumped over of snow in the Calgary area. Highway 2 was closed, ice coated some roads, and another was expected to fall on Friday along with strong winds.\n\nOne of the hottest seasons on record was recorded in India through May, prior to the monsoon season. At least 250 people died from the country's heat wave.\n\nA major dust storm hit New Dehli, India on May 6, 2010.\n\nHeavy rain fell in western Azerbaijan on May 1. By May 2, a rain-induced landslide in Alunitdag village in Dashkasan District (western Azerbaijan) covered the yards of two smallholdings. Between May 2 and 3, two people were killed when their home collapsed in the village of Duzenli in Salyan District. It happened at about 7:45 local time. On May 5, further rain and flooding happened in most of the country's east.\n\nHeavy rainfall in parts of Poland raised the prospect of flooding in the town of Slubice.\n\nThe 2010 South China floods began in early May 2010. 392 people died and a further 232 people were reported missing as of June 30, 2010; this included 57 people in a landslide in Guizhou. 53 of the deaths occurred from the flooding and landslides between May 31 and June 3, and 266 deaths occurred between June 13 and June 29. 424 people were killed by the end of June, including 42 from the Guizhou landslide; 118 more were killed and 47 left missing in the start of July, bringing the death toll to 542. More than 72.97 million people in 22 provinces, municipalities and regions, including the southern and central provinces of Zhejiang, Fujian, Jiangxi, Hubei, Hunan, Guangdong, Guangxi, Chongqing Municipality, Sichuan and Guizhou were affected, while at least 4.66 million people were evacuated because of the risk of flooding and landslides in the latter half of June.\n\nThe 2010 Central European floods were a particularly devastating series of weather events that occurred across several Central European countries during May, June and August 2010. Poland was the worst affected. Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, Serbia and the Ukraine were also affected.\n\nOn May 16, in southern Serbia about 300 people were evacuated due to flooding after heavy rainfall in the country. The flooded area was left with no electricity, telephone lines, or running mains water. Two people drowned in a flooded Pčinja River.\n\nOn May 17, one person died in the Hungarian town of Miskolc, while two others died in the Serbian town of Trgovište due to flooding created by heavy rainfall.\n\nHeavy rain began to fall in Guatemala City on the 24th, causing local rivers to flood. Heavy rain was also reported in parts of Mexico, Honduras, and southwestern Brazil.\n\nAs the storm moved inland, torrential rains triggered flash flooding and landslides in parts of Honduras on May 30. At least 45 homes were destroyed and one person was killed in the country. On May 31, the presidents of both El Salvador and Honduras declared a state of emergency for their respective countries. Tropical Storm Agatha had picked up speed and strength over the Central American state of Belize, in the Atlantic basin, on May 31.\n\nThe 2010 Indian heatwave was a period of extremely hot weather occurring during the summer of 2010 in India and much of South Asia. Said to be the harshest summer since 1800, the heat wave killed hundreds of people due to heat exhaustion and food poisoning.\n\nOn May 24, 400 people held a protest in the 1,500-strong village of Altit over the lack of aid provision, following a visit to the settlement by Pakistan's Prime Minister. One protestor said he was sheltering in a Gilgit school building and that there were too few doctors in the camp. The only reliable means of transport in the disaster zone was by Army helicopter. About 32 villages in the Hunza–Nagar District were said by the local administration to be flooded. The flooding lake was formed after a deep landslide in January.\n\nThe hottest temperature ever recorded in Asia was reached in Mohenjo-daro, Sindh, Pakistan at , on May 26, and multiple cities in Pakistan saw temperatures above . The previous record for Pakistan, and for all of Asia, was reached at in Sindh Province on June 12, 1919. By May 27, after temperatures higher than hit areas across the country, at least 18 people died in Pakistan from the heat.\n\nWarsaw faced imminent rain-related flooding as the Vistula river burst its banks and inundated many nearby villages on May 20.\n\nThe Vistula river burst its banks on May 21 and flooded nearby towns. Warsaw was put on flood alert. 23,000 people were displaced in the worst Polish floods in 160 years. EU officials said Poland would receive 100 million euros in aid from the European Union solidarity fund. The Vistula was at a 160-year high and £2,000,000 worth of damage was done in Poland. Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland all witness heavy rainfall, as rivers begin to swell in Slovenia and eastern Germany.\n\nOn May 23, the floods hit the city of Wrocław as the Ślęza river broke a dyke and flooded into the Kozanow neighborhood. The Vistula River reached in height and, like the floods in general, was at a level not seen in 60 years.\n\nOn May 24, levees failed or were tactically dynamited, southern Poland was hopelessly flooded, and the River Oder began to flood Germany. $2,500,000,000 worth of damage was done in Poland as the river Vistula flooded along its entire length and Poland's death toll reached 15.\n\nBy May 25, another £400,000,000 worth of damage was done and 15 Poles were reported dead. Flooding also affected nearby parts of Germany.\n\nParts of Lower Austria, the Polish town of Slubice and the German city of Frankfurt an der Order started to be flooded from the rivers Spree and Oder on May 27 due to heavy rain. Heavy rain fell across the English Midlands.\n\nA large dust storm swept across both Libya and Egypt on May 26.\n\nOn May 30, Guatemalan President Alvaro Colom declared a ‘state of calamity’ as the first tropical storm of the Eastern Pacific hurricane season, Hurricane Agatha flooded about 600 homes and killed 12 people the day after a volcanic eruption. The rain made the volcanic ash set like concrete on and around Guatemala City and the city's main airport. A total of thirteen people had already died in El Salvador the day before. In El Salvador, one person drowned when a river flooded, according to civil protection agency spokesman Armando Vividor. People living in or traveling to flood zones in the capital and five other cities were to relocate to shelters, according to a statement on the civil protection agency's website. The Miami-based National Hurricane Centre issued an advisory that the storm had strengthened, with maximum sustained winds of or more predicted during the next 48 hours.\n\nOn June 1, the National Hurricane Centre stated that the remnants of Tropical Storm Agatha had only a low chance of regeneration in the western Caribbean Sea. By the next day, the thunderstorm activity associated with Agatha in the western Caribbean had dissipated and it was only a bad storm. The storm had severely damaged Guatemala's principal airport with rain induced floods. It also resulted in the death of 1 person in Nicaragua, 152 people killed and 100 left missing in Guatemala (due to landslides), 13 deaths in El Salvador and 16 fatalities in Honduras. On June 6, the remnants of Tropical Storm Agatha dissipated completely, after hitting Honduras.\n\n25 died between June 2 and 4 in a heavy rainstorm in Pakistan's Punjab Province and a blizzard hit the Pakistani-held parts of Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nOn June 2, police in the Czech Republic warned of vehicles’ aquaplaning after a man died in a flooded street due to it. In Slovakia, a 38-year-old man died searching for another man who had fallen into a swollen river. 2,000 people were evacuated in the northern Hungarian town of Paszto. Major flood alerts hit Serbia and Bosnia as their rivers swelled with floodwater. Government officials in Serbia said the situation was \"critical\". A Croatian drowned in a flooding Istrian river. A total of of rain fell in Zupanja, Croatia, on June 3. The Croatian government sent 5,000 bottles to the Zupanja region, and the Croatian Red Cross launched an emergency appeal. Meanwhile, there was more rain in Croatia and Slovenia. On June 2, several heavy thunderstorms also hit the high Swiss Alps, accompanied by heavy snow in some places.\n\nThe Hungarian flood level was critical on June 5.\n\nThe Cyclone Phet hit Oman's Masirah Island after 1,000 Omanis and 50,000 Pakistanis were evacuated on June 4. (\"Phet\" () is a Thai word meaning diamond.) Cyclone Phet made landfall at Thatta about south from Karachi, Pakistan on June 6, 2010 at about 4:30pm GMT.\n\nA waterspout unexpectedly moved onshore as a tornado at Lennox Head, New South Wales, Australia on June 3. 40–100 houses were damaged, and several people were injured by the tornado.\n\nJune 6 saw heavy rain hit the sun-scorched UK and Ireland. Heathrow Airport had June 6‘s hottest spot at .\n\nOn June 7, 150 Polish schools were closed, flood hit Slovakia received 25,000,000 Euros ($30,000,000) in EU aid, and river levels in Budapest reached . The death toll included 1 Hungarian, 3 Slovaks, and 25 Poles.\n\nThe Polish towns of Wilkow and Winiary flooded. The river level in Warsaw reached and a local dam collapsed, flooding part of the city on June 8. The Polish city of Sandomierz was cut off by flooding.\n\nThe mayor of Janowiec appealed for aid and criticized the Polish government's handling of the affair. 42,000 people were affected and more than 12,000 houses were flooded in the province of Podkarpackie. 20 Poles were confirmed as dead as the Vistula river ran amok in Poland on June 9. The general elections on June 20 were suspended due to the chaos caused by the floods.\n\nOn June 8, a flood alert was issued in Belgrade as the river Danube was rising by per hour in the city.\n\nOn June 8, heavy thunderstorms hit the British Isles, ending the 6-day-long heat wave.\n\nAbout 42 people were killed by heavy monsoon-related landslides, winds and flash floods in the south of Bangladesh on June 15. Some flooding was also reported in India's Tamil Nadu and West Bengal provinces.\n\nOver June 15 and 16 about of rain fell in the French Côte d'Azur region. At least 1,000 people were evacuated and spent the night in empty schools or other temporary shelters, and some 175,000 houses were estimated to have been left without power as rescue teams moved 436 prisoners from a flooded jail in Draguignan. The rain was worst in Roquebrune-sur-Argens and Frejus; it continued into June 17. Both rail and air travel in the region were interrupted, with 300 or so passengers who were traveling on a high-speed train between Nice and Lille trapped by floodwater spilling over the tracks near Nice. The railway line between Toulon and Frejus was closed until the morning of June 17, due to water-induced subsidence of the track and debris on the line. Fallen trees and landslides also blocked many roads for the next 24 hours. Meteorologists said it was the worst such event in the region since 1827. The ultimate death toll was 22.\n\nOn June 21, the Salvadoran Red Cross Society said the El Salvador flood emergency appeal funds were nearly exhausted.\n\nThe price of oil rose to $77 per barrel on June 24 as a cyclone began to form in the south-western Caribbean.\n\nOn June 25, the Category 3 strength Hurricane Darby hit Mexico's Pacific coast (passing south-west of Acapulco) with hurricane-force winds reaching up to from the eye.\n\nOn June 30, Hurricane Alex hit north-eastern Mexico. An area north of the town of La Pesca was hit by winds up to as the storm moved northward.\n\nThe rain-swollen Gan River burst its banks and flooded Zhangshu, Jiangxi, China on June 21.\n\nJune 27 to 29 saw the heaviest rainfall for 300 years in the Luolou township of the Chinese Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. 6,673 people were affected; the town was cut off, schools were closed, and people traveled by boat.\n\nOn July 30, Malteser International, the relief service of the Order of Malta, gave disaster relief to about 10,000 in the flood-ravaged Swat District of Pakistan. The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa saw at least 400,000 people affected by the floods, which were the most severe ones since 1929. The abnormally heavy rain killed 300 Pakistanis and a cholera epidemic was expected in its wake.\n\nHeavy rainfall happened in central and north-eastern Romania between June 22 and June 29.\n\n1,870 people were evacuated from 10 villages in Suceava county, as the Siret river threatened to overflow on the afternoon of June 28. Some 1,100 sheep were moved to higher ground in the mostly rural region. Refugees were taken by local monasteries, schools, cultural centers, and relatives. Gheorghe Flutur, president of Suceava county, said his region was one of the worst hit in the country. Later that day, the Siret river threatened to break through the dikes protecting the town of Şendreni, as locals and emergency services reinforced the dikes with sandbags by the truck-full to prevent the river from breaking out and flooding the town.\n\nThe north-eastern town of Dorohoi witnessed six deaths on June 29 as floods rose to just over in some places. Several roads into Dorohoi remained either washed away or under water. Ten people were killed by the floods in total. The railway line to the Ukraine, electricity pylons, bridges, and roads were damaged across northern and eastern Romania.\n\nThe Romanian counties of Alba, Arad, Bacău, Botoşani, Brașov, Cluj, Hunedoara, Iași, Mehedinţi, Neamţ, Olt, Prahova, Sălaj, Sibiu, Suceava, Timiş, Tulcea, Vâlcea, and Vrancea were flooded in late June. Botoşani, Suceava, and Tulcea counties took the brunt of the damage. Also affected was Chernivtsi province in the neighboring Ukraine.\n\nOn June 29 and 30, Romanian Prime Minister Emil Boc toured the devastated regions in the north-east of the country. Romanian Interior Minister Vasile Blaga told parliament that the losses were equivalent to 0.6% of GDP. The agriculture ministry estimated that, of of arable land, were damaged. Moldova and the Ukraine had yet to assess the crisis in their flooded regions. Russia gave of humanitarian aid to the Ukraine.\n\nOn July 9, the European Union's Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection representative, Kristalina Georgieva, let Belgium send aid to Romania. The fortnight-long floods in Rumania killed 23–24 people, injured 43, made 7,000–18,000 homeless, and caused 60,000,000 Euros (US$76,000,000) of damage. Romania is part of the EU‘s Civilian Solidarity Mechanism. One Ukrainian was killed by the floods in the Ukraine's Chernivtsi region.\n\nOn July 2, 2010, Hurricane Alex made landfall in Monterrey, Mexico, causing flooding in most of northern Mexico and killing 2 people.\n\nUnusually heavy rain hit Phnom Penh, causing transport chaos. The chief of Phnom Penh Municipality's sewage system department said that several hours of rain had overwhelmed the city's drains and flooded most streets. of rain fell on June 2.\n\nOn July 7, 2010, five people died and eight were missing after torrential rains caused flash floods in Huangyuan County, in China's overheating Qinghai Province. The rain hit six towns at about 10 pm and lasted for about 40 minutes that night. It triggered floods that cut transport links, phone, power, and water supplies. Over 80 homes collapsed and 770 were flooded. Disaster relief operations were under way during the heavy flooding, but the county government was still assessing the full losses and financial implications of the heat wave and flash flood. Rumors that a homeless old man had been crushed to death in a partly collapsed house were denied by rescue workers.\n\nJuly 8 saw the highest temperature across the People's Republic of China so far in the summer of 2010, along with heavy rainstorms. Local authorities and the National Meteorological Center also issued an orange flood alert in central and southwest China; the worst floods for 40 years hit these regions. Part of the floods in southeastern Sichuan province was sewage from a failed sewer.\n\nHeavy rains hit the Hubei and Anhui provinces on July 8, and caused a deep flood which killed 1 person and made 500,000 homeless. On July 9 over of farmland were flooded, 242 houses collapsed, and at least 10,157 residents were evacuated in Hubei province according to the Civil Affairs Bureau. Anhui saw 10-year flood and 50-year temperature records, the latter increasing both air-conditioner sales and electricity consumption in Beijing and nearby cities. Both the Golmud river and the Wenquan reservoir overflowed.\n\nJuly 8 saw the Indian states of Haryana, Punjab, and Himachal Pradesh flooded and arterial highways connecting Delhi to northern towns cut or directly threatened with flooding. Delhi-Manali National Highway 21 remained closed for a second day after water from the rain swollen Beas river flooded in several places near Aut.\n\nA breach opened up in the rain-swollen Sutlej Yamuna link canal and two army columns were deployed for rescue and evacuation missions in the disaster zone. The overflowing Ghaggar-Hakra River also flooded Punjab's Patiala district, killing three people.\n\nAs the floods eased in Central Europe and the Balkans, except for in Romania, temperatures began to climb across Western Europe and the UK between June 30 and July 2.\n\nOn July 2 Brussels saw its hottest day since 1976. France, Germany, and the Spanish resort Benidorm had record temperatures as part of Europe's July heat wave. Several heavy thunderstorms hit the low Swiss Alps, accompanied by heavy sleet in some places.\n\nOn July 3 a heat wave hit parts of Ryazan province and the cities of Bucharest and Budapest, killing a Romanian man with heatstroke. Heavy thunderstorms hit the high Swiss Alps, accompanied by heavy snow in some locations.\n\nOn July 11, heavy floods hit Haryana in India and damaged the archaeological site of Jognakhera, where ancient copper smelting had been found dating back almost 5,000 years. The Indus valley civilization site was hit by almost of water as the Sutlej Yamuna Link Canal overflowed.\n\nA thunderstorm with heavy rain hit Zürich and the Swiss-French border on July 10. The storm also threatened to close the Avoriaz stage of the Tour de France cycle race.\n\nOn July 11, temperatures skyrocketed in Vienna, Berlin, Munich, Amsterdam, Madrid, Lisbon, Zürich, and Bucharest. More heavy thunderstorms hit the high Swiss Alps, accompanied by heavy snow in some places.\n\nOn July 12, France and Belgium also saw record temperatures.\n\nAlpine and North Sea thunderstorms swept across south-east and north-west Germany respectively. Heavy rain fall was also reported in parts of the Netherlands, Ireland, Normandy and the English Midlands on July 13.\n\nThunderstorms hit the English Midlands, Oxfordshire, Ireland, and Northern Ireland. The heatwave ended in the British Isles and north-west Europe.\n\nHeavy storms also hit Warsaw, Vienna and Kiev between July 14 and July 16.\n\nHeavy rain and thunderstorms hit the town of Samail in Oman's northern coastal mountain range on July 14. On that day, heavy rain also fell in most of Iran's East Azerbaijan and West Azerbaijan provinces.\n\nThe 2010 Milwaukee flood was a series of two disasters in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin area of the United States; they happened from July 15 to 23, 2010.\n\nIowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Texas, Kansas and Nebraska had heavy thunderstorms with a bad tornado in Northfield, Minnesota on July 16. Later in the day all of Manitoba, Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, Tennessee, Mississippi, Wisconsin, and Minnesota had heavy storms. The heat wave was at last dead and blown away by the storms.\n\nFlash flooding in Arizona swept a 12-year-old girl to her death on July 20, 2010.\n\nThe 2010 Var floods were the result of heavy rainfall in southern France that caused severe floods in the Var department in the evening of July 15, 2010. As well as generalized flooding, there were also flash floods. Meteorologists said the floods were the worst in the region since 1827, with more than of rain falling in less than 24 hours. At least 25 people were killed, and 14 people were missing.\n\nTrees and chimney pots fell as winds hit parts of Wales and the Bristol Channel area, between July 15 and 16. The winds hit Cardiff, Porthmadog, Pontcanna Fields near Cardiff, coastal Pembrokeshire, southern Monmouthshire, Cheltenham, Gloucester, Aberystwyth, Portmeirion, and Prenteg as heavy gales passed over South Wales and the Bristol Channel.\n\nOn July 15, the regional representative of the American Red Cross had praise for the Chinese people, the Chinese Red Cross, and China‘s Ministry of Civil Affairs for their efforts in fighting the flood. The People's Liberation Army (PLA) was praised for sending contingents of soldiers across the country to any location where a disaster had struck.\n\nBoth the Xinjiang region in the northwest and Yunnan province in the south were affected by flooding. In all, flood waters inundated parts of at least 24 of China's 34 provinces and regions on July 20. By July 20, the Yangtze River at the Three Gorges Dam experienced its highest river discharge in 130 years, and the highest since the dam was built. The dam's walls released of water, while per second of the river flow was held back in behind the dam, after water levels in the Reservoir had risen overnight. The reservoir's water levels peaked at on the morning of July 23; the alarm level for the reservoir was . All ferry service in the reservoir was halted when the total flow rate exceeded per second, although the crest of the flooding passed the dam by July 24. A second peak in the river arrived at the dam on July 28, when the peak flow from the dam was a record per second.\n\nIt was officially revealed on July 21 that more than 701 people were dead, and that 347 were missing due to the severe flooding in China so far; the floods caused the highest death toll since 1998, which saw the highest water levels in 50 years. The floods have affected 100 rivers, 117 million people in 27 provinces, and seven cities. of farmland and 645,000 houses have been destroyed, and 8,000,000 people have been evacuated (about the population of New Jersey).\n\nThe overall damage totaled 142,200,000,000 Yuan or £13,700,000,000. The Three Gorges Dam project prevented floods like those in 1998, which killed several thousands. The shipping channels in the Three Gorges Dam were closed, but the dam wall was still holding for the time being.\n\nAbout 70 people were killed and 100,000 left homeless between July 19 and 25 in flash floods in Pakistan's south-western Baluchistan province.\n\nDue to the bad weather, an Airblue passenger jet crashed into the Margalla Hills outside Islamabad killing all 152 passengers on July 28.\n\nThe Pakistan Meteorological Department said that over of rain fell over a 24-hour period over a number of places in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab. A record breaking rain fell in Peshawar over one 24-hour period; the previous record was of rain in 24 hours, recorded in April 2009. Many areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa saw more than of rain over July 28 and 29, breaking a 35-year-old record. Heavy rainfall was reported all over the Hindu Kush mountains. 80 died in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, mostly in the Swat Valley.\n\nA unnamed river flooded the town of Behrain, destroyed a hotel, and caused heavy damage.\n\nA recently built part of a dam in the Charsadda District collapsed; the ensuing wave killed two people and destroyed all the local farms.\n\nOn July 31, the information minister of Pakistan's northwestern Khyber-Pakhtoonkhwa province, Mian Iftikhar Hussain, said the latest deaths were in this region. Eight hundred died and thousands had diarrhea, fever and other waterbourne illnesses. About 45 bridges were destroyed in the worst floods since 1928; this severely hampered rescuers, who lacked helicopters.\n\nOn July 31, Peshawar in Pakistan was cut off and Pakistani-held parts of Kashmir were also flooded, while the abnormally strong monsoon killed 65 people in mountainous areas across the border in Afghanistan. The EU pledged to give €30,000,000 to Pakistan in aid supplies. 1600 were confirmed dead in Pakistan by the end of August and 60 were dead in Afghanistan by July 31. All 300,000 people in Peshwar were cut off by the flood waters, but helicopters were still able to land there, according to a Khyber-Pakhtoonkhwa provincial official (Mian Iftikhar Hussain). It remained so on August 1, 2010.\n\nOn August 1 floods occurred in south-east Afghanistan and continued in the Indus Valley. 1,100–1,400 Pakistani people had been killed and 27,000–30,000 were trapped on high ground, clinging to rooftops and trees. India also suffered substantial dislocations of its road network as rescue workers used boats and helicopters in both nations. There were 900 cases of water-carried illness in Pakistan; the town of Nowshera was flooded.\n\nThe rain continued to fall on parts of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Iranian Baluchistan, and snow blanketed the Pamir Mountains and Ladakh on August 2. About 2,500,000 Pakistanis were now homeless according to the International Red Cross and Mian Iftikhar Hussain said there might be a cholera epidemic in his Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.\n\nSome 4,000 soldiers were called in to help fight both the 6 rumoured and several known fires in the Moscow Oblast. Over 5,000 people were evacuated from their homes and Vladimir Putin organised an emergency meeting for August 2 with the governors of the various regions in the Central and Southern Federal Districts devastated by the fires. The grain harvest in the disaster zone was destroyed.\n\nOn August 11, the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) issued a warning that about of America's 80,000 dams and levees had a \"high\" or \"significant\" hazard to life and property if a catastrophic structural failure occurred.\n\nAugust 7 in China had 700 people known to have been killed and more than 1,000 people still missing and presumed dead as landslides demolished hundreds of buildings, including several seven stories high buildings in the remote Zhouqu county of Gansu province after several days of heavy rain in the county.\n\nThe major landslides were triggered by torrential rains and covered an area of by . 45,000 people in Zhouqu county were evacuated as 7,000 soldiers, fire-fighters and medical staff deployed to tackle the disaster. The worst floods for a decade killed over 2,100 and millions more were displaced nationwide.\n\nA report compiled by Lanzhou University in 2006 had warned that the felling of the forests around Zhouqu for coal mining and agriculture would cause heavy soil erosion and destabilize hillsides. The construction of a major highway and more than 40 hydroelectric dam and recovery systems in the steep valleys acted to further destabilize the local geology, according to leading Chinese geologist Fan Xiao.\n\nThe rain stopped on August 10 and the situation became less chaotic as the army and fire-fighters continued to look for survivors.\n\nAugust 10 saw China's state-run Xinhua news agency report that the authorities sent nearly 3,000 soldiers and about 100 medical experts to help in search and rescue effort in the Gannan and Tibetan Autonomous Prefectures in Gansu province after record floods hit the province. Reports said Zhouqu county had at least 337 dead as rescuers searched for up to 1,148 others who were still missing. Landslides up to five stories deep buried three villages, destroyed roads and bridges, disrupted mobile telecommunications equipment, and cut phone lines, water, and electricity supplies in parts of the region.\n\nThe Chinese government sent experts by helicopter to survey the flooding in devastated villages, and examine how to blast open the remaining flood-induced blockages at the end of the valley, according to Chinese state television. In total, about 875,000 homes were destroyed, 9,610,000 million people were evacuated, of crops were destroyed, and tens of billions of dollars in damage were caused by the floods in 28 provinces and regions.\n\nThe storms in north-east Jilin province also killed several people and left more than 100 people missing; heavy snowfall was reported in the Himalayas.\n\nAugust 8 had heavy rainfalls in southwest Kosovo, killing an elderly man, who fell into a swollen river on the Albania/Kosovo border.\n\nOn August 20 the worst floods for 80 years hit Africa's Sahara Desert region. The UN warned that Niger, Chad, Burkina Faso, Cameroon and northern Nigeria were also in the grip of the worst regional food crisis since 2006. In the Sudanian Savanna city of Kano, Nigeria, over 2,000 families were displaced by floods, and in the nearby Jigawa region, an entire village was evacuated due to heavy flooding. A Mauritanian child was swept away in a flood that damaged bridges and many homes in the mountain town of Aioun. Heavy flooding happened around parts of Lake Chad.\n\nAfter weeks without rain, heavy downpours soaked Moscow and nearby areas, bringing further relief for the extended heat wave. However, in Sarov (about east of Moscow) a new fire started near the country's top nuclear research center. Earlier in August, radioactive and explosive materials were moved out of the facility due to the threat of forest fires; however, they were later returned when the threat lessened. Over 3,400 fire-fighters battled the forest blaze, assisted by a special fire-fighting train. The front end of the forest peat fire-fighting came near the town of Roshal (in the Shatursky district) at one point on August 13.\n\nHeavy rain and thunder storms hit the British Isles between August 13 and 22, leading to heavy flooding in parts of Sussex, Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire. The low cloud and rain led to the closure of the Bournemouth Air Festival on August 21 and 22. The morning of August 23 saw heavy storms hit Pembrokeshire, the English Midlands and Argyll. Some flooding was reported in Oxfordshire and Pembrokeshire. As the day went on the storms lined up on the east coast between The Wash and Aberdeen, with isolated storms in south-west Gloucestershire, Oxfordshire, south Cambridgeshire, south-west Yorkshire, Leicestershire, and Moray.\n\nOn September 1, floods hit the Niger River. Flooded ruins were all that was left of three districts of the West African country's capital Niamey (Zarmagandaye, Lamorde and Karadje) It was the worst flooding by the Niger recorded since 1929.\n\nSeptember 4 saw a landslide killing 12 people by hitting a bus, as record amounts of rain started falling in parts of Guatemala and south-eastern Mexico. Thousands were evacuated from the Mexican Gulf coastline by the state of Tabasco, as the flooding continued to grow.\n\nSeptember 5 saw up to 100 people trapped in a bus by a landslide as torrential rains continued to swamp parts of Guatemala. Most were rescued, but 18 people were killed in the incident.\n\nOn September 6, the region's first major tropical storm of the year killed at least 145 people in Guatemala, with at least 53 missing and thousands homeless as emergency crews struggled to reach isolated communities. Tropical Storm Agatha washed away hundreds of roads and collapsed many bridges in the country. The Chimaltenango department's governor, Erick de Leon, said that the landslides buried dozens of small rural Amerindian communities and killed at least 60 around the local village of Santa Apolonia alone. Local volunteers worked desperately to recover the bodies of two brothers, aged four and eight, who were buried by a landslide in the village of Parajbei.\n\nSeptember 6 also saw an overnight landslide (caused by a flood) burying around 100 people who were trying to rescue victims of the previous bus trapped by a landslide along the Inter-American Highway in the Guatemalan Highlands. 23 people were killed in the incident near the town of Santa Maria Ixtaguacan, and 12 had died in the original landslide. The floods were estimated by the government to have killed 45 people on the highway so far, with 38 dying over the last two days of heavy rain and landslides far. President Alvaro Colom declared a nationwide state of emergency and urged that citizens to stay off the nation's highways due to the likelihood of more landslides. The week-long heavy rain and floods affected some 40,000 people in the country and caused $350–500 million in damage. He also warned that 24,000 more people were at risk and the government was running out of funds.\n\nThousands more fled their homes in Honduras after mudslides and landslips killed 15 on September 6. State officials warned people to stay away from any swollen waterways as the rain-swollen reservoirs behind two dams near the capital of Tegucigalpa overflowed the dam walls' ramparts and spilled into a nearby river.\n\nMeanwhile, a weather forecast of yet more rain was issued across Central America; it prompted officials in Mexico to take precautions against rain induced landslides. Heavy flooding made thousands homeless in the southern Mexican states of Veracruz, Tabasco, Chiapas and Oaxaca. Mexican president Felipe Calderón pledged to send aid to the devastated regions on his Twitter page.\nMexico's national power company opened floodgates on some hydroelectric dams in the region, worsening the flooding in some low-lying areas but causing no deaths and avoiding a catastrophic dam burst situation.\n\nThe Pakistan government said on September 2 that 1,500 had died across Pakistan so far. Basera (near Muzaffargarh in Punjab province), Jatti (near Thatta in Sindh province, Pakistan), and Larkana (in Sindh province) were still in chaos and choked with refugees on September 2. The United Nations warned that up to 3,5000,000 children were at risk from water-borne diseases like cholera in the disaster areas and refugee camps.\n\nThe Oxford mosque's Pakistan flood charitable fund reached £30,000 on September 4, 2010.\n\nOn September 5 floods hit the squalid refugee camps in Azakhel, miles from Peshawar, Pakistan.\n\nOn September 4 storms swept into the prefecture-level city of Luoyang in China's Henan province at 7 am. A total of 15 villages were hit by gales, hail, flood and heavy rain. Several small boats were sunk in a river running through a local scenic spot in Luoyang. One person was reported dead, and electricity poles and telecommunication links were cut down in some villages as well as three bridges destroyed, farm crops destroyed, and several roads blocked, causing about 900,000,000 Yuan or $132,000,000 in material losses.\n\nA second day of heavy rain hit the UK on September 6. August 2010 was the coolest since 1993, with the average maximum temperatures below normal. The rainfall was much above average in both south-east England and Wales, and the third-wettest August on record had happened in East Anglia; over twice the average August rainfall occurred in 2010.\n\nThe 2010 Victorian floods were a widespread series of flood events across the Australian state of Victoria from September 2 to 7. Heavy rainstorms hit New Zealand's South Island on September 2; the same rain system then hit Victoria in Australia. Flooding followed heavy rain across south-eastern Australia and caused the inundation of about 250 homes, hundreds of evacuations, and millions of dollars of damage. Weather warnings were initially issued for Victoria on Thursday, September 2 and rain began to fall on that Friday, continuing through the weekend to Tuesday, September 7. Heavy rain fell in most regions of the state, particularly higher altitudes in the state's west and north-east, flooding the upper reaches of many of Victoria's major rivers. A state of emergency was declared with State Emergency Service crews arriving from Queensland, South Australia, and Tasmania. In Skipton in the state's Western District, 20 properties were put on evacuation alert, while in the Central Highlands 120 people sought refuge in the town hall at Creswick and 30 people were evacuated from a caravan park in Clunes. In northern Victoria, 150 extra police and 50 military personnel were deployed to assist with evacuations and sandbagging.\n\nAlthough Hurricane Igor was several hundred miles from the Leeward Islands on September 9, large swells produced by Igor swept two people out to sea in the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.\n\nSince the storms started on September 9, 144 people were killed and 13,000 affected people were moved to temporary relief shelters. Five of El Salvador's fourteen departments were still seeing heavy rainfall. More than 20 homes were destroyed, 24 bridges and 1,600 houses were damaged, as the town of San Vicente ( east of San Salvador) was buried under landslides on November 11, killing several people.\n\nMexico experienced its worst rainy season on record starting beginning on September 10. Mexico's President Felipe Calderón said that 900,000 people were affected in the latest tropical storms. It was the worst such event since Hurricane Alex killed 22 and left 40,000 homeless in July 2010.\n\nSeptember 13, 2010 saw Tropical Storm Julia hit the Cape Verde Islands with winds at .\n\nA record cloudburst hit northern India on September 18 and 19, causing deadly flooding.\n\nThe 2010 Slovenian floods on the weekend of September 17–19 were caused by heavy rains in Slovenia, resulting in one of the worst floods in the country's history. Among the regions affected were the capital Ljubljana, the Central Sava Valley, Laško, the Slovenian Littoral and the Lower Carniola region. Initial damage was estimated to reach €15 million. Three people were killed.\n\nOn September 17, north-east England's firefighters, medics and emergency rescue teams did flood and rainstorm related training exercises at Hurworth Burn Reservoir, near Middleton St George in County Durham, as well as at Rothbury and Otterburn in Northumberland.\n\nThree Spaniards died as heavy rains hit southern Spain on September 17. A man died when a wall collapsed in Bujalance in eastern Córdoba province, while a man and a woman died in Aguilar de la Frontera in the south of the province. Storm warnings were announced by the national weather authority later in the day.\n\nHeavy rainstorm and snowstorms hit Invercargill, New Zealand on September 16 and 17.\n\nOn September 18, heavy flooding closed a stretch covered in water up to deep on and off State Highway 1 north of Bulls as high winds and rain created major disturbances around the country. State Highway 3 was entirely closed and there were also landslips on State Highway 4 at the Manawatu Gorge. The NZ Transport Agency said State Highway 1 between Woodlands and Edendale in Southland had reopened after the ending of heavy snowfalls. Similar weather incidents and some minor car crashes closed parts of State Highway 99. Heavy floods under railway overbridge closed the highway near Marton, forcing a local diversion.\n\nPowerco restored supply to around 28,000 customers as a severe wind and rain storm continued to pound the North Island. The storm had caused power cuts to around 45,000 customers through the middle of the North Island; the worst affected areas were Thames, Coromandel, Thames-Coromandel, Tirau and Putaruru, parts of the western Bay of Plenty, parts of Wanganui, Wairarapa, and Manawatu, Hauraki-Piako, and parts of Taranaki.\n\nOvernight between September 17 and September 18, snow and ice settled on Southland's roads causing slippery conditions on rural roads and treacherous conditions in Invercargill as the local police asked people to stay indoors and off the roads. An autistic 7-year-old boy nearly died after falling in Paeroa, and hundreds of cars were damaged or destroyed nationwide. A big tree fell on State Highway Five, the Napier-Taupo Road, about on the Napier side of the Tarawera Tavern. Sheep died in the worst winter since 1996.\n\nThe MetService reported more than 100 lightning strikes in the Hutt Valley and Wairarapa region yesterday, setting fire to a shed and igniting several trees early in the day.\n\nWeatherWatch.co.nz reported that some gusts had peaked at , collapsing power lines and cutting electricity in Warkworth, Remuera, Mangere and west Auckland. The electricity supply line company Vector believes about 30,000 people lost power in the Auckland area and in Piha to the west of the city.\n\nBermuda closed government-run schools for September 20 and 21 in anticipation of Hurricane Igor. In addition to school closures, the Bermuda International Airport (BDA) was shut down in advance of the storm. During the storm, the major causeway leading to the airport was shut down earlier than anticipated due to the threat of tornadoes.\n\nDespite initial fears that Hurricane Igor would cause immense damage across Bermuda, the storm passed after causing relatively minimal structural damage. Heavy rains fell across the islands between September 18 and 19, amounting to ; sustained winds were recorded over hurricane force and gusts reached . An AWOS on St. David's Lighthouse recorded a peak sustained wind of and gusts of . Although roughly 27,500 of the 35,000 residences across the island were without power, the damage was limited mainly to downed trees. No reports of loss of life or serious injuries came after the storm's passage. Officials in Bermuda stated that the biggest loss from Igor would be lessened tourism revenue following a mass exodus prior to the hurricane's arrival. Catastrophe modeler AIR Worldwide indicated that insured losses in Bermuda were less than $100 million.\n\nSeptember 19 saw thirteen more people perish in Uttar Pradesh because of the Yamuna river floods. The maximum temperature in the capital city of New Delhi rose to . Several food prices rose because of the destroyed farmland.\n\nUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati demanded that a national government team be sent to assess the losses suffered during the floods. After taking an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas, she requested that the national government provide 2,175 crore for a flood relief team.\n\nNot much happened in Pakistan on September 19, but the victims of the Pakistan flood struggled to rebuild on their own. People swarmed around any cars, begging for help: their homes and everything were completely destroyed; their fields were turned into rubbish. One villager said \"[n]obody has visited our village. Nobody has helped us. My house, my furniture & and everything else was destroyed. We had no support from the government.\"\n\nOn September 20, heavy rain and landslides inflicted a death toll of 63 in Uttarakhand; Naintal lost 11, Haridwar 7 and Pauri 3. The river Ganges flooded several low-lying areas as it passed above the danger mark in Haridwar, as Har-Ki-Puari was completely submerged underneath the floodwaters. The state-run rescue operation to the region said that seven people were still trapped under the debris of flattened houses; local volunteers and police were already there. All the schools in the province were closed for three days. Uttarakhand's Chief Minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, requested further help from both the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Sushma Swaraj, and the Indian prime minister.\n\nOn September 22, the Yamuna river flooded the Yamuna Sports Complex and left mosquito-attracting pools of floodwater, further disrupting preparations for the Commonwealth Games.\n\nOn September 22, in the morning after a night of steady rainfall Strathclyde Fire and Rescue received 117 calls about flooding in Kilbirnie, Glengarnock, Fairlie, and Largs in North Ayrshire, Scotland. There were similar downpours in parts of Northumberland and Cumbria at the same time as the Scottish floods took place. At one point later on September 22, 65 firefighters were called to flooding in the Rothesay and Helensburgh areas of Argyll and Bute. Just after 9:00 pm on September 22, a storm-weakened wall collapsed over the Glasgow to Largs main railway line near Pencil View in Largs, forcing Network Rail to close the line.\n\nOn September 19 the roof of the 2,000 seat Stadium Southland tennis stadium in Invercargill, New Zealand collapsed and imploded after a storm dumped a near-record amount of snow on it during a tennis match. A tennis player narrowly evaded death when the air pressure's shock wave hit him as he loitered outside the stadium's entrance. In contrast, in Christchurch the weather was sunny and bright, with a temperature of not . State Highway 1 near Woodlands, Invercargill and Edendale was closed after a Fonterra truck jackknifed. Fonterra had difficulty picking up milk from some areas due to tanker trucks jack-knifing on the roads; 400 farmers dumped their milk for hygiene reasons as it began to ferment and mold. Similar automotive incidents closed most of State Highway 99 as of snow hit Invercargill that day and blocked most of its streets. The airport was closed and Air New Zealand crews were sent home. Overnight snowfalls hit Lumsden and Queenstown for the second night running.\n\nThe morning of September 20 saw roof collapses from heavy snow of the Wren building and neighbouring retailer Briscoes in Yarrow St, Invercargill.\n\nHeavy snow destroyed a glasshouse at Eldon Gardens, Donald McDonald's drive in Tweed St, killing 2,000 young tomato plants. The weight of the snow buckled the metal support poles of the glasshouse and most of the eight bays collapsed. The NZ$100,000 glass house was 18 years old. The snowfall in Invercargill was about deep, and was probably the worst in the town for at least 50 years.\n\nSeptember 23 saw northern India's storm devastating railways with 22 Delhi (inbound and outbound) trains canceled and another 65 diverted due to the severe flooding in Delhi as the river Yamuna reached the danger mark. The Old Yamuna Bridge between East Delhi and New Delhi was closed for safety reasons as the Yamuna river's level rose menacingly. Residents in low-lying areas were evacuated to shelters in New Delhi.\n\nThe Yamuna river reached a record high above the danger mark in the worst monsoon rains for 30 years, leaving mosquito-attracting pools and coming dangerously near the Taj Mahal; more water was discharged from the Gokul and Okhla barrages.\n\nIn Scotland, Grampian Police warned of treacherous conditions as flooding hit Aberdeenshire and Aberdeen on September 23. Residents of the Meadows Care Home in Huntly, Aberdeenshire were moved to temporary shelder as the level of the River Deveron rose to danger level. 40 other local residents were given shelter at the Gordon Schools. Grampian Fire and Rescue Service said a number of crews from Huntly, Elgin, and the former Tayside region, along with the British Red Cross and a local coast-guard team, were all involved in the evacuation. Some schools were shut after several hours of torrential rain dramatically raised the level of a nearby Aberdeenshire river, while about 10 households in Soy Avenue and Durn Road, Portsoy were evacuated to a nearby care home. Parts of North Ayrshire, Glasgow, Lothian, and Argyll and Bute were also affected. Lothian and Borders Police later reported some flooding on West Maitland Street, Edinburgh, and High Street in Prestonpans.\n\nThe Met Office said that of rain had fallen in 12 hours overnight; Glasgow normally has of rain in all of September. Aberdeenshire also had of rain in 12 hours, and it continued to rain for the rest of the day leaving an extra of rain by nightfall. September 24 and 25 also saw patches of heavy rain hit various parts of Ireland, Belgium, and the Netherlands.\n\nIn Hadejia and Kararar Rima, Nigeria, the flood victims slept wherever they could; the men searched for dry spots on the roads, while women and children kept piling into the houses still standing, as huge numbers of displaced people returned to flood-hit villages in northern Nigeria. Over two million people were affected by the flood waters and more than fifty thousand families were made homeless. Most of the houses were made of clay, so they dissolved in the flood waters.\n\nThe Mississippi river started to rise and threatened St. Paul, Minnesota, with Mayor Chris Coleman declaring an emergency. The previous week's rain caused the Minnesota and Mississippi rivers to reach flood levels. Rising water levels after last week's heavy rainfall in southern Minnesota forced Water Street between Plato Boulevard and Minnesota 13 to be closed on September 28.\n\nIn Canada, the financial assistance department announced that up to CA$300,000 per claim would be available to the people harmed by heavy rains and flooding in the North Island and Central Coast areas. Areas including Port Alice, Port Hardy, Zeballos, and the Central Coast region's Bella Coola, Kingcome, and the Highway 20 corridor between Bella Coola and Anahim Lake would be covered.\n\nSeptember 26 saw heavy rain (causing more massive flooding) moving into Bihar and devastating an area around Patna. The Danapur Diyara district was the worst affected. Locals complained about a lack of emergency housing and supplies. The river Ganges breached its banks and flooded all low-lying areas, leaving many stranded due to flooded roads, collapsed bridges, and precautionary closures.\n\nSeptember 27 and 28 saw the flood situation reaching its worst at Agra where the river water level touched on the morning of September 27. Many neighborhoods and ghats, such as the Taj Ganj cremation ghat, were submerged after several thunderstorms brought very heavy rainfall. Almost half of the city was without drinking water. Tourists visiting the Taj Mahal were asked to stay far away from the raging river. Settlements in the Balkeshwar and Dayalbagh areas have been inundated. More than 30 villages in the Bah tehsil have also been badly hit by the Yamuna river floods.\n\nIn Waikato, people started preparing for floods as heavy rain threatened to push already-swollen rivers past their limits. Preparations were made for the worst as the region had already been hit by a storm the previous week. While further rain did fall, the most serious flooding at the start of October 2010 turned out to be south of Waikato in the central region of New Zealand.\n"}
{"id": "41211324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41211324", "title": "Global surveillance disclosures (2013–present)", "text": "Global surveillance disclosures (2013–present)\n\nOngoing news reports in the international media have revealed operational details about the United States National Security Agency (NSA) and its international partners' global surveillance of foreign nationals and U.S. citizens. The reports mostly emanate from a cache of top secret documents leaked by ex-NSA contractor Edward Snowden, which he obtained whilst working for Booz Allen Hamilton, one of the largest contractors for defense and intelligence in the United States. In addition to a trove of U.S. federal documents, Snowden's cache reportedly contains thousands of Australian, British and Canadian intelligence files that he had accessed via the exclusive \"Five Eyes\" network. In June 2013, the first of Snowden's documents were published simultaneously by \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Guardian\", attracting considerable public attention. The disclosure continued throughout 2013, and a small portion of the estimated full cache of documents was later published by other media outlets worldwide, most notably \"The New York Times\" (United \nStates), the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, \"Der Spiegel\" (Germany), \"O Globo\" (Brazil), \"Le Monde\" (France), \"L'espresso\" (Italy), \"NRC Handelsblad\" (the Netherlands), \"Dagbladet\" (Norway), \"El País\" (Spain), and Sveriges Television (Sweden).\n\nThese media reports have shed light on the implications of several secret treaties signed by members of the UKUSA community in their efforts to implement global surveillance. For example, \"Der Spiegel\" revealed how the German Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND) transfers \"massive amounts of intercepted data to the NSA\", while Swedish Television revealed the National Defence Radio Establishment (FRA) provided the NSA with data from its cable collection, under a secret treaty signed in 1954 for bilateral cooperation on surveillance. Other security and intelligence agencies involved in the practice of global surveillance include those in Australia (ASD), Britain (GCHQ), Canada (CSEC), Denmark (PET), France (DGSE), Germany (BND), Italy (AISE), the Netherlands (AIVD), Norway (NIS), Spain (CNI), Switzerland (NDB), Singapore (SID) as well as Israel (ISNU), which receives raw, unfiltered data of U.S. citizens that is shared by the NSA.\n\nOn June 14, 2013, United States prosecutors charged Edward Snowden with espionage and theft of government property. In late July 2013, he was granted a one-year temporary asylum by the Russian government, contributing to a deterioration of Russia–United States relations. On August 6, 2013, U.S. President Barack Obama made a public appearance on national television where he told Americans that \"We don't have a domestic spying program\" and that \"There is no spying on Americans\". Towards the end of October 2013, the British Prime Minister David Cameron warned \"The Guardian\" not to publish any more leaks, or it will receive a DA-Notice. In November 2013, a criminal investigation of the disclosure was being undertaken by Britain's Metropolitan Police Service. In December 2013, \"The Guardian\" editor Alan Rusbridger said: \"We have published I think 26 documents so far out of the 58,000 we've seen.\"\n\nThe extent to which the media reports have responsibly informed the public is disputed. In January 2014, Obama said that \"the sensational way in which these disclosures have come out has often shed more heat than light\" and critics such as Sean Wilentz have noted that many of the Snowden documents released do not concern domestic surveillance. The US & UK Defense establishment weigh the strategic harm in the period following the disclosures more heavily than their civic public benefit. In its first assessment of these disclosures, the Pentagon concluded that Snowden committed the biggest \"theft\" of U.S. secrets in the history of the United States. Sir David Omand, a former director of GCHQ, described Snowden's disclosure as the \"most catastrophic loss to British intelligence ever\".\n\nBarton Gellman, a Pulitzer Prize–winning journalist who led \"The Washington Post\"s coverage of Snowden's disclosures, summarized the leaks as follows:\n\nThe disclosure revealed specific details of the NSA's close cooperation with U.S. federal agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in addition to the agency's previously undisclosed financial payments to numerous commercial partners and telecommunications companies, as well as its previously undisclosed relationships with international partners such as Britain, France Germany, and its secret treaties with foreign governments that were recently established for sharing intercepted data of each other's citizens. The disclosures were made public over the course of several months since June 2013, by the press in several nations from the trove leaked by the former NSA contractor Edward J. Snowden, who obtained the trove while working for Booz Allen Hamilton.\n\nGeorge Brandis, the Attorney-General of Australia, asserted that Snowden's disclosure is the \"most serious setback for Western intelligence since the Second World War.\"\n\n, global surveillance programs include:\nThe NSA was also getting data directly from telecommunications companies codenamed Artifice, Lithium, Serenade, SteelKnight, and X. The real identities of the companies behind these codenames were not included in the Snowden document dump because they were protected as Exceptionally Controlled Information which prevents wide circulation even to those (like Snowden) who otherwise have the necessary security clearance.\n\nAlthough the exact size of Snowden's disclosure remains unknown, the following estimates have been put up by various government officials:\n\nAs a contractor of the NSA, Snowden was granted access to U.S. government documents along with top secret documents of several allied governments, via the exclusive Five Eyes network. Snowden claims that he is currently not in physical possession of any of these documents, after having surrendered all copies to the journalists he met in Hong Kong.\n\nAccording to his lawyer, Snowden has pledged not to release any documents while in Russia, leaving the responsibility for further disclosures solely to journalists. As of 2014, the following news outlets have accessed some of the documents provided by Snowden: Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Channel 4, \"Der Spiegel\", \"El Pais\", \"El Mundo\", \"L'espresso\", \"Le Monde\", NBC, \"NRC Handelsblad\", \"Dagbladet\", \"O Globo\", \"South China Morning Post\", \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", Sveriges Television, \"The Guardian\", \"The New York Times\", and \"The Washington Post\".\n\nIn the 1970s, NSA analyst Perry Fellwock (under the pseudonym \"Winslow Peck\") revealed the existence of the UKUSA Agreement, which forms the basis of the ECHELON network, whose existence was revealed in 1988 by Lockheed employee Margaret Newsham. Months before the September 11 attacks and during its aftermath, further details of the global surveillance apparatus were provided by various individuals such as the former MI5 official David Shayler and the journalist James Bamford, who were followed by:\n\nIn the aftermath of Snowden's revelations, The Pentagon concluded that Snowden committed the biggest theft of U.S. secrets in the history of the United States. In Australia, the coalition government described the leaks as the most damaging blow dealt to Australian intelligence in history. Sir David Omand, a former director of GCHQ, described Snowden's disclosure as the \"most catastrophic loss to British intelligence ever\".\n\nIn April 2012, NSA contractor Edward Snowden began downloading documents. That year, Snowden had made his first contact with journalist Glenn Greenwald, then employed by \"The Guardian\", and he contacted documentary filmmaker Laura Poitras in January 2013.\n\nIn May 2013, Snowden went on temporary leave from his position at the NSA, citing the pretext of receiving treatment for his epilepsy. Towards the end of May, he traveled to Hong Kong. Greenwald, Poitras and the Guardian's defence and intelligence correspondent Ewen MacAskill flew to Hong Kong to meet Snowden.\n\nAfter the U.S.-based editor of \"The Guardian\", Janine Gibson, held several meetings in New York City, it was decided that Greenwald, Poitras and the \"Guardian\"s defence and intelligence correspondent Ewen MacAskill would fly to Hong Kong to meet Snowden. On June 5, in the first media report based on the leaked material, \"The Guardian\" exposed a top secret court order showing that the NSA had collected phone records from over 120 million Verizon subscribers. Under the order, the numbers of both parties on a call, as well as the location data, unique identifiers, time of call, and duration of call were handed over to the FBI, which turned over the records to the NSA. According to \"The Wall Street Journal\", the Verizon order is part of a controversial data program, which seeks to stockpile records on all calls made in the U.S., but does not collect information directly from T-Mobile US and Verizon Wireless, in part because of their foreign ownership ties.\n\nOn June 6, 2013, the second media disclosure, the revelation of the PRISM surveillance program (which collects the e-mail, voice, text and video chats of foreigners and an unknown number of Americans from Microsoft, Google, Facebook, Yahoo, Apple and other tech giants), was published simultaneously by \"The Guardian\" and \"The Washington Post\".\n\"Der Spiegel\" revealed NSA spying on multiple diplomatic missions of the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Headquarters in New York. During specific episodes within a four-year period, the NSA hacked several Chinese mobile-phone companies, the Chinese University of Hong Kong and Tsinghua University in Beijing, and the Asian fiber-optic network operator Pacnet. Only Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the UK are explicitly exempted from NSA attacks, whose main target in the EU is Germany. A method of bugging encrypted fax machines used at an EU embassy is codenamed Dropmire.\n\nDuring the 2009 G-20 London summit, the British intelligence agency Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) intercepted the communications of foreign diplomats. In addition, GCHQ has been intercepting and storing mass quantities of fiber-optic traffic via Tempora. Two principal components of Tempora are called \"Mastering the Internet\" (MTI) and \"Global Telecoms Exploitation\". The data is preserved for three days while metadata is kept for thirty days. Data collected by GCHQ under Tempora is shared with the National Security Agency (NSA) of the United States.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2011, the NSA collected vast amounts of metadata records detailing the email and internet usage of Americans via Stellar Wind, which was later terminated due to operational and resource constraints. It was subsequently replaced by newer surveillance programs such as ShellTrumpet, which \"processed its one trillionth metadata record\" by the end of December 2012.\n\nThe NSA follows specific procedures to target non-U.S. persons and to minimize data collection from U.S. persons. These court-approved policies allow the NSA to:\n\nAccording to Boundless Informant, over 97 billion pieces of intelligence were collected over a 30-day period ending in March 2013. Out of all 97 billion sets of information, about 3 billion data sets originated from U.S. computer networks and around 500 million metadata records were collected from German networks.\n\nIn August 2013, it was revealed that the Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND) of Germany transfers massive amounts of metadata records to the NSA.\n\n\"Der Spiegel\" disclosed that Germany is the most targeted country of the 27 members of the European Union due to the NSA systematic monitoring and storage of Germany's telephone and Internet connection data. According to the magazine the NSA stores data from around half a billion communications connections in Germany each month. This data includes telephone calls, emails, mobile-phone text messages and chat transcripts.\n\nThe NSA gained massive amounts of information captured from the monitored data traffic in Europe. For example, in December 2013, the NSA gathered on an average day metadata from some 15 million telephone connections and 10 million Internet datasets. The NSA also monitored the European Commission in Brussels and monitored EU diplomatic Facilities in Washington and at the United Nations by placing bugs in offices as well as infiltrating computer networks.\n\nThe U.S. government made as part of its UPSTREAM data collection program deals with companies to ensure that it had access to and hence the capability to surveil undersea fiber-optic cables which deliver e-mails, Web pages, other electronic communications and phone calls from one continent to another at the speed of light.\n\nAccording to the Brazilian newspaper \"O Globo\", the NSA spied on millions of emails and calls of Brazilian citizens, while Australia and New Zealand have been involved in the joint operation of the NSA's global analytical system XKeyscore. Among the numerous allied facilities contributing to XKeyscore are four installations in Australia and one in New Zealand:\n\n\"O Globo\" released an NSA document titled \"\", which revealed the specific locations and codenames of the FORNSAT intercept stations in 2002.\n\nAccording to Edward Snowden, the NSA has established secret intelligence partnerships with many Western governments. The Foreign Affairs Directorate (FAD) of the NSA is responsible for these partnerships, which, according to Snowden, are organized such that foreign governments can \"insulate their political leaders\" from public outrage in the event that these global surveillance partnerships are leaked.\n\nIn an interview published by \"Der Spiegel\", Snowden accused the NSA of being \"in bed together with the Germans\". The NSA granted the German intelligence agencies BND (foreign intelligence) and BfV (domestic intelligence) access to its controversial XKeyscore system. In return, the BND turned over copies of two systems named Mira4 and Veras, reported to exceed the NSA's SIGINT capabilities in certain areas. Every day, massive amounts of metadata records are collected by the BND and transferred to the NSA via the Bad Aibling Station near Munich, Germany. In December 2012 alone, the BND handed over 500 million metadata records to the NSA.\n\nIn a document dated January 2013, the NSA acknowledged the efforts of the BND to undermine privacy laws:\n\nAccording to an NSA document dated April 2013, Germany has now become the NSA's \"most prolific partner\". Under a section of a separate document leaked by Snowden titled \"Success Stories\", the NSA acknowledged the efforts of the German government to expand the BND's international data sharing with partners:\n\nIn addition, the German government was well aware of the PRISM surveillance program long before Edward Snowden made details public. According to Angela Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert, there are two separate PRISM programs – one is used by the NSA and the other is used by NATO forces in Afghanistan. The two programs are \"not identical\".\n\n\"The Guardian\" revealed further details of the NSA's XKeyscore tool, which allows government analysts to search through vast databases containing emails, online chats and the browsing histories of millions of individuals without prior authorization. Microsoft \"developed a surveillance capability to deal\" with the interception of encrypted chats on Outlook.com, within five months after the service went into testing. NSA had access to Outlook.com emails because \"Prism collects this data prior to encryption.\"\n\nIn addition, Microsoft worked with the FBI to enable the NSA to gain access to its cloud storage service SkyDrive. An internal NSA document dating from August 3, 2012 described the PRISM surveillance program as a \"team sport\".\n\nEven if there is no reason to suspect U.S. citizens of wrongdoing, the CIA's National Counterterrorism Center is allowed to examine federal government files for possible criminal behavior. Previously the NTC was barred to do so, unless a person was a terror suspect or related to an investigation.\n\nSnowden also confirmed that Stuxnet was cooperatively developed by the United States and Israel. In a report unrelated to Edward Snowden, the French newspaper \"Le Monde\" revealed that France's DGSE was also undertaking mass surveillance, which it described as \"illegal and outside any serious control\".\n\nDocuments leaked by Edward Snowden that were seen by \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" (SZ) and \"Norddeutscher Rundfunk\" revealed that several telecom operators have played a key role in helping the British intelligence agency Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) tap into worldwide fiber-optic communications. The telecom operators are:\n\nEach of them were assigned a particular area of the international fiber-optic network for which they were individually responsible. The following networks have been infiltrated by GCHQ: TAT-14 (Europe-USA), Atlantic Crossing 1 (Europe-USA), Circe South (France-UK), Circe North (The Netherlands-UK), Flag Atlantic-1, Flag Europa-Asia, SEA-ME-WE 3 (Southeast Asia-Middle East-Western Europe), SEA-ME-WE 4 (Southeast Asia-Middle East-Western Europe), Solas (Ireland-UK), UK-France 3, UK-Netherlands 14, ULYSSES (Europe-UK), Yellow (UK-USA) and Pan European Crossing.\n\nTelecommunication companies who participated were \"forced\" to do so and had \"no choice in the matter\". Some of the companies were subsequently paid by GCHQ for their participation in the infiltration of the cables. According to the SZ, GCHQ has access to the majority of internet and telephone communications flowing throughout Europe, can listen to phone calls, read emails and text messages, see which websites internet users from all around the world are visiting. It can also retain and analyse nearly the entire European internet traffic.\n\nGCHQ is collecting all data transmitted to and from the United Kingdom and Northern Europe via the undersea fibre optic telecommunications cable SEA-ME-WE 3. The Security and Intelligence Division (SID) of Singapore co-operates with Australia in accessing and sharing communications carried by the SEA-ME-WE-3 cable. The Australian Signals Directorate (ASD) is also in a partnership with British, American and Singaporean intelligence agencies to tap undersea fibre optic telecommunications cables that link Asia, the Middle East and Europe and carry much of Australia's international phone and internet traffic.\n\nThe U.S. runs a top-secret surveillance program known as the Special Collection Service (SCS), which is based in over 80 U.S. consulates and embassies worldwide. The NSA hacked the United Nations' video conferencing system in Summer 2012 in violation of a UN agreement.\n\nThe NSA is not just intercepting the communications of Americans who are in direct contact with foreigners targeted overseas, but also searching the contents of vast amounts of e-mail and text communications into and out of the country by Americans who mention information about foreigners under surveillance. It also spied on the Al Jazeera and gained access to its internal communications systems.\n\nThe NSA has built a surveillance network that has the capacity to reach roughly 75% of all U.S. Internet traffic. U.S. Law-enforcement agencies use tools used by computer hackers to gather information on suspects. An internal NSA audit from May 2012 identified 2776 incidents i.e. violations of the rules or court orders for surveillance of Americans and foreign targets in the U.S. in the period from April 2011 through March 2012, while U.S. officials stressed that any mistakes are not intentional.\n\nThe FISA Court that is supposed to provide critical oversight of the U.S. government's vast spying programs has limited ability to do so and it must trust the government to report when it improperly spies on Americans. A legal opinion declassified on August 21, 2013, revealed that the NSA intercepted for three years as many as 56,000 electronic communications a year of Americans not suspected of having links to terrorism, before FISA court that oversees surveillance found the operation unconstitutional in 2011. Under the Corporate Partner Access project, major U.S. telecommunications providers receive hundreds of millions of dollars each year from the NSA. Voluntary cooperation between the NSA and the providers of global communications took off during the 1970s under the cover name BLARNEY.\n\nA letter drafted by the Obama administration specifically to inform Congress of the government's mass collection of Americans' telephone communications data was withheld from lawmakers by leaders of the House Intelligence Committee in the months before a key vote affecting the future of the program.\n\nThe NSA paid GCHQ over £100 Million between 2009 and 2012, in exchange for these funds GCHQ \"must pull its weight and be seen to pull its weight.\" Documents referenced in the article explain that the weaker British laws regarding spying are \"a selling point\" for the NSA. GCHQ is also developing the technology to \"exploit any mobile phone at any time.\" The NSA has under a legal authority a secret backdoor into its databases gathered from large Internet companies enabling it to search for U.S. citizens' email and phone calls without a warrant.\n\nThe Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board urged the U.S. intelligence chiefs to draft stronger US surveillance guidelines on domestic spying after finding that several of those guidelines have not been updated up to 30 years. U.S. intelligence analysts have deliberately broken rules designed to prevent them from spying on Americans by choosing to ignore so-called \"minimisation procedures\" aimed at protecting privacy and used the NSA's agency's enormous eavesdropping power to spy on love interests.\n\nAfter the U.S. Foreign Secret Intelligence Court ruled in October 2011 that some of the NSA's activities were unconstitutional, the agency paid millions of dollars to major internet companies to cover extra costs incurred in their involvement with the PRISM surveillance program.\n\n\"Mastering the Internet\" (MTI) is part of the Interception Modernisation Programme (IMP) of the British government that involves the insertion of thousands of DPI (deep packet inspection) \"black boxes\" at various internet service providers, as revealed by the British media in 2009.\n\nIn 2013, it was further revealed that the NSA had made a £17.2  million financial contribution to the project, which is capable of vacuuming signals from up to 200 fibre-optic cables at all physical points of entry into Great Britain.\n\nThe \"Guardian\" and \"The New York Times\" reported on secret documents leaked by Snowden showing that the NSA has been in \"collaboration with technology companies\" as part of \"an aggressive, multipronged effort\" to weaken the encryption used in commercial software, and GCHQ has a team dedicated to cracking \"Hotmail, Google, Yahoo and Facebook\" traffic.\n\nGermany's domestic security agency Bundesverfassungsschutz (BfV) systematically transfers the personal data of German residents to the NSA, CIA and seven other members of the United States Intelligence Community, in exchange for information and espionage software. Israel, Sweden and Italy are also cooperating with American and British intelligence agencies. Under a secret treaty codenamed \"Lustre\", French intelligence agencies transferred millions of metadata records to the NSA.\n\nThe Obama Administration secretly won permission from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court in 2011 to reverse restrictions on the National Security Agency's use of intercepted phone calls and e-mails, permitting the agency to search deliberately for Americans' communications in its massive databases. The searches take place under a surveillance program Congress authorized in 2008 under Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Under that law, the target must be a foreigner \"reasonably believed\" to be outside the United States, and the court must approve the targeting procedures in an order good for one year. But a warrant for each target would thus no longer be required. That means that communications with Americans could be picked up without a court first determining that there is probable cause that the people they were talking to were terrorists, spies or \"foreign powers.\" The FISC extended the length of time that the NSA is allowed to retain intercepted U.S. communications from five years to six years with an extension possible for foreign intelligence or counterintelligence purposes. Both measures were done without public debate or any specific authority from Congress.\n\nA special branch of the NSA called \"Follow the Money\" (FTM) monitors international payments, banking and credit card transactions and later stores the collected data in the NSA's own financial databank \"Tracfin\". The NSA monitored the communications of Brazil's president Dilma Rousseff and her top aides. The agency also spied on Brazil's oil firm Petrobras as well as French diplomats, and gained access to the private network of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of France and the SWIFT network.\n\nIn the United States, the NSA uses the analysis of phone call and e-mail logs of American citizens to create sophisticated graphs of their social connections that can identify their associates, their locations at certain times, their traveling companions and other personal information. The NSA routinely shares raw intelligence data with Israel without first sifting it to remove information about U.S. citizens.\n\nIn an effort codenamed GENIE, computer specialists can control foreign computer networks using \"covert implants,\" a form of remotely transmitted malware on tens of thousands of devices annually. As worldwide sales of smartphones began exceeding those of feature phones, the NSA decided to take advantage of the smartphone boom. This is particularly advantageous because the smartphone combines a myriad of data that would interest an intelligence agency, such as social contacts, user behavior, interests, location, photos and credit card numbers and passwords.\n\nAn internal NSA report from 2010 stated that the spread of the smartphone has been occurring \"extremely rapidly\"—developments that \"certainly complicate traditional target analysis.\" According to the document, the NSA has set up task forces assigned to several smartphone manufacturers and operating systems, including Apple Inc.'s iPhone and iOS operating system, as well as Google's Android mobile operating system. Similarly, Britain's GCHQ assigned a team to study and crack the BlackBerry. \n\nUnder the heading \"iPhone capability\", the document notes that there are smaller NSA programs, known as \"scripts\", that can perform surveillance on 38 different features of the iOS 3 and iOS 4 operating systems. These include the mapping feature, voicemail and photos, as well as Google Earth, Facebook and Yahoo! Messenger.\n\nOn September 9, 2013, an internal NSA presentation on iPhone Location Services was published by \"Der Spiegel\". One slide shows scenes from Apple's \"1984\"-themed television commercial alongside the words \"Who knew in 1984...\"; another shows Steve Jobs holding an iPhone, with the text \"...that this would be big brother...\"; and a third shows happy consumers with their iPhones, completing the question with \"...and the zombies would be paying customers?\"\n\nOn October 4, 2013, \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Guardian\" jointly reported that the NSA and GCHQ had made repeated attempts to spy on anonymous Internet users who have been communicating in secret via the anonymity network Tor. Several of these surveillance operations involved the implantation of malicious code into the computers of Tor users who visit particular websites. The NSA and GCHQ had partly succeeded in blocking access to the anonymous network, diverting Tor users to insecure channels. The government agencies were also able to uncover the identity of some anonymous Internet users.\n\nThe Communications Security Establishment Canada (CSEC) has been using a program called Olympia to map the communications of Brazil's Mines and Energy Ministry by targeting the metadata of phone calls and emails to and from the ministry.\n\nThe Australian Federal Government knew about the PRISM surveillance program months before Edward Snowden made details public.\n\nThe NSA gathered hundreds of millions of contact lists from personal e-mail and instant messaging accounts around the world. The agency did not target individuals. Instead it collected contact lists in large numbers that amount to a sizable fraction of the world's e-mail and instant messaging accounts. Analysis of that data enables the agency to search for hidden connections and to map relationships within a much smaller universe of foreign intelligence targets.\n\nThe NSA monitored the public email account of former Mexican president Felipe Calderón (thus gaining access to the communications of high-ranking cabinet members), the emails of several high-ranking members of Mexico's security forces and text and the mobile phone communication of current Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto. The NSA tries to gather cellular and landline phone numbers—often obtained from American diplomats—for as many foreign officials as possible. The contents of the phone calls are stored in computer databases that can regularly be searched using keywords.\n\nThe NSA has been monitoring telephone conversations of 35 world leaders. The U.S. government's first public acknowledgment that it tapped the phones of world leaders was reported on October 28, 2013, by the Wall Street Journal after an internal U.S. government review turned up NSA monitoring of some 35 world leaders. GCHQ has tried to keep its mass surveillance program a secret because it feared a \"damaging public debate\" on the scale of its activities which could lead to legal challenges against them.\n\n\"The Guardian\" revealed that the NSA had been monitoring telephone conversations of 35 world leaders after being given the numbers by an official in another U.S. government department. A confidential memo revealed that the NSA encouraged senior officials in such Departments as the White House, State and The Pentagon, to share their \"Rolodexes\" so the agency could add the telephone numbers of leading foreign politicians to their surveillance systems. Reacting to the news, German leader Angela Merkel, arriving in Brussels for an EU summit, accused the U.S. of a breach of trust, saying: \"We need to have trust in our allies and partners, and this must now be established once again. I repeat that spying among friends is not at all acceptable against anyone, and that goes for every citizen in Germany.\" The NSA collected in 2010 data on ordinary Americans' cellphone locations, but later discontinued it because it had no \"operational value.\"\n\nUnder Britain's MUSCULAR programme, the NSA and GCHQ have secretly broken into the main communications links that connect Yahoo and Google data centers around the world and thereby gained the ability to collect metadata and content at will from hundreds of millions of user accounts.\n\nThe mobile phone of German Chancellor Angela Merkel might have been tapped by U.S. intelligence. According to the Spiegel this monitoring goes back to 2002 and ended in the summer of 2013, while \"The New York Times\" reported that Germany has evidence that the NSA's surveillance of Merkel began during George W. Bush's tenure. After learning from \"Der Spiegel\" magazine that the NSA has been listening in to her personal mobile phone, Merkel compared the snooping practices of the NSA with those of the Stasi. It was reported in March 2014, by Der Spiegel that Merkel had also been placed on an NSA surveillance list alongside 122 other world leaders.\n\nOn October 31, 2013, Hans-Christian Ströbele, a member of the German Bundestag, met Snowden in Moscow and revealed the former intelligence contractor's readiness to brief the German government on NSA spying.\n\nA highly sensitive signals intelligence collection program known as Stateroom involves the interception of radio, telecommunications and internet traffic. It is operated out of the diplomatic missions of the Five Eyes (Australia, Britain, Canada, New Zealand, United States) in numerous locations around the world. The program conducted at U.S. diplomatic missions is run in concert by the U.S. intelligence agencies NSA and CIA in a joint venture group called \"Special Collection Service\" (SCS), whose members work undercover in shielded areas of the American Embassies and Consulates, where they are officially accredited as diplomats and as such enjoy special privileges. Under diplomatic protection, they are able to look and listen unhindered. The SCS for example used the American Embassy near the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin to monitor communications in Germany's government district with its parliament and the seat of the government.\n\nUnder the Stateroom surveillance programme, Australia operates clandestine surveillance facilities to intercept phone calls and data across much of Asia.\n\nIn France, the NSA targeted people belonging to the worlds of business, politics or French state administration. The NSA monitored and recorded the content of telephone communications and the history of the connections of each target i.e. the metadata. The actual surveillance operation was performed by French intelligence agencies on behalf of the NSA. The cooperation between France and the NSA was confirmed by the Director of the NSA, Keith B. Alexander, who asserted that foreign intelligence services collected phone records in \"war zones\" and \"other areas outside their borders\" and provided them to the NSA.\n\nThe French newspaper \"Le Monde\" also disclosed new PRISM and Upstream slides (See Page 4, 7 and 8) coming from the \"PRISM/US-984XN Overview\" presentation.\n\nIn Spain, the NSA intercepted the telephone conversations, text messages and emails of millions of Spaniards, and spied on members of the Spanish government. Between December 10, 2012 and January 8, 2013, the NSA collected metadata on 60 million telephone calls in Spain.\n\nAccording to documents leaked by Snowden, the surveillance of Spanish citizens was jointly conducted by the NSA and the intelligence agencies of Spain.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported that the NSA carries out an eavesdropping effort, dubbed Operation Dreadnought, against the Iranian leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. During his 2009 visit to Iranian Kurdistan, the agency collaborated with GCHQ and the U.S.'s National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, collecting radio transmissions between aircraft and airports, examining Khamenei's convoy with satellite imagery, and enumerating military radar stations. According to the story, an objective of the operation is \"communications fingerprinting\": the ability to distinguish Khamenei's communications from those of other people in Iran.\n\nThe same story revealed an operation code-named Ironavenger, in which the NSA intercepted e-mails sent between a country allied with the United States and the government of \"an adversary\". The ally was conducting a spear-phishing attack: its e-mails contained malware. The NSA gathered documents and login credentials belonging to the enemy country, along with knowledge of the ally's capabilities for attacking computers.\n\nAccording to the British newspaper \"The Independent\", the British intelligence agency GCHQ maintains a listening post on the roof of the British Embassy in Berlin that is capable of intercepting mobile phone calls, wi-fi data and long-distance communications all over the German capital, including adjacent government buildings such as the Reichstag (seat of the German parliament) and the Chancellery (seat of Germany's head of government) clustered around the Brandenburg Gate.\n\nOperating under the code-name \"Quantum Insert\", GCHQ set up a fake website masquerading as LinkedIn, a social website used for professional networking, as part of its efforts to install surveillance software on the computers of the telecommunications operator Belgacom. In addition, the headquarters of the oil cartel OPEC were infiltrated by GCHQ as well as the NSA, which bugged the computers of nine OPEC employees and monitored the General Secretary of OPEC.\n\nFor more than three years GCHQ has been using an automated monitoring system code-named \"Royal Concierge\" to infiltrate the reservation systems of at least 350 prestigious hotels in many different parts of the world in order to target, search and analyze reservations to detect diplomats and government officials. First tested in 2010, the aim of the \"Royal Concierge\" is to track down the travel plans of diplomats, and it is often supplemented with surveillance methods related to human intelligence (HUMINT). Other covert operations include the wiretapping of room telephones and fax machines used in targeted hotels as well as the monitoring of computers hooked up to the hotel network.\n\nIn November 2013, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and \"The Guardian\" revealed that the Australian Signals Directorate (DSD) had attempted to listen to the private phone calls of the president of Indonesia and his wife. The Indonesian foreign minister, Marty Natalegawa, confirmed that he and the president had contacted the ambassador in Canberra. Natalegawa said any tapping of Indonesian politicians' personal phones \"violates every single decent and legal instrument I can think of—national in Indonesia, national in Australia, international as well\".\n\nOther high-ranking Indonesian politicians targeted by the DSD include:\n\nCarrying the title \"3G impact and update\", a classified presentation leaked by Snowden revealed the attempts of the ASD/DSD to keep up to pace with the rollout of 3G technology in Indonesia and across Southeast Asia. The ASD/DSD motto placed at the bottom of each page reads: \"Reveal their secrets—protect our own.\"\n\nUnder a secret deal approved by British intelligence officials, the NSA has been storing and analyzing the internet and email records of UK citizens since 2007. The NSA also proposed in 2005 a procedure for spying on the citizens of the UK and other Five-Eyes nations alliance, even where the partner government has explicitly denied the U.S. permission to do so. Under the proposal, partner countries must neither be informed about this particular type of surveillance, nor the procedure of doing so.\n\nTowards the end of November, \"The New York Times\" released an internal NSA report outlining the agency's efforts to expand its surveillance abilities. The five-page document asserts that the law of the United States has not kept up with the needs of the NSA to conduct mass surveillance in the \"golden age\" of signals intelligence, but there are grounds for optimism because, in the NSA's own words:\n\nThe report, titled \"SIGINT Strategy 2012–2016\", also said that the U.S. will try to influence the \"global commercial encryption market\" through \"commercial relationships\", and emphasized the need to \"revolutionize\" the analysis of its vast data collection to \"radically increase operational impact\".\n\nOn November 23, 2013, the Dutch newspaper \"NRC Handelsblad\" reported that the Netherlands was targeted by U.S. intelligence agencies in the immediate aftermath of World War II. This period of surveillance lasted from 1946 to 1968, and also included the interception of the communications of other European countries including Belgium, France, West Germany and Norway. The Dutch Newspaper also reported that NSA infected more than 50,000 computer networks worldwide, often covertly, with malicious spy software, sometimes in cooperation with local authorities, designed to steal sensitive information.\n\nAccording to the classified documents leaked by Snowden, the Australian Signals Directorate (ASD), formerly known as the Defence Signals Directorate, had offered to share intelligence information it had collected with the other intelligence agencies of the UKUSA Agreement. Data shared with foreign countries include \"bulk, unselected, unminimised metadata\" it had collected. The ASD provided such information on the condition that no Australian citizens were targeted. At the time the ASD assessed that \"unintentional collection [of metadata of Australian nationals] is not viewed as a significant issue\". If a target was later identified as being an Australian national, the ASD was required to be contacted to ensure that a warrant could be sought. Consideration was given as to whether \"medical, legal or religious information\" would be automatically treated differently to other types of data, however a decision was made that each agency would make such determinations on a case-by-case basis. Leaked material does not specify where the ASD had collected the intelligence information from, however Section 7(a) of the Intelligence Services Act 2001 (Commonwealth) states that the ASD's role is \"...to obtain intelligence about the capabilities, intentions or activities of people or organisations outside Australia...\". As such, it is possible ASD's metadata intelligence holdings was focused on foreign intelligence collection and was within the bounds of Australian law.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" revealed that the NSA has been tracking the locations of mobile phones from all over the world by tapping into the cables that connect mobile networks globally and that serve U.S. cellphones as well as foreign ones. In the process of doing so, the NSA collects more than five billion records of phone locations on a daily basis. This enables NSA analysts to map cellphone owners' relationships by correlating their patterns of movement over time with thousands or millions of other phone users who cross their paths.\n\nThe Washington Post also reported that both GCHQ and the NSA make use of location data and advertising tracking files generated through normal internet browsing (with cookies operated by Google, known as \"Pref\") to pinpoint targets for government hacking and to bolster surveillance.\n\nThe Norwegian Intelligence Service (NIS), which cooperates with the NSA, has gained access to Russian targets in the Kola Peninsula and other civilian targets. In general, the NIS provides information to the NSA about \"Politicians\", \"Energy\" and \"Armament\". A top secret memo of the NSA lists the following years as milestones of the Norway–United States of America SIGINT agreement, or NORUS Agreement:\n\nThe NSA considers the NIS to be one of its most reliable partners. Both agencies also cooperate to crack the encryption systems of mutual targets. According to the NSA, Norway has made no objections to its requests from the NIS.\n\nOn December 5, Sveriges Television reported the National Defence Radio Establishment (FRA) has been conducting a clandestine surveillance operation in Sweden, targeting the internal politics of Russia. The operation was conducted on behalf of the NSA, receiving data handed over to it by the FRA. The Swedish-American surveillance operation also targeted Russian energy interests as well as the Baltic states. As part of the UKUSA Agreement, a secret treaty was signed in 1954 by Sweden with the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, regarding collaboration and intelligence sharing.\n\nAs a result of Snowden's disclosures, the notion of Swedish neutrality in international politics was called into question. In an internal document dating from the year 2006, the NSA acknowledged that its \"relationship\" with Sweden is \"protected at the TOP SECRET level because of that nation's political neutrality.\" Specific details of Sweden's cooperation with members of the UKUSA Agreement include:\n\nAccording to documents leaked by Snowden, the Special Source Operations of the NSA has been sharing information containing \"logins, cookies, and GooglePREFID\" with the Tailored Access Operations division of the NSA, as well as Britain's GCHQ agency.\n\nDuring the 2010 G-20 Toronto summit, the U.S. embassy in Ottawa was transformed into a security command post during a six-day spying operation that was conducted by the NSA and closely coordinated with the Communications Security Establishment Canada (CSEC). The goal of the spying operation was, among others, to obtain information on international development, banking reform, and to counter trade protectionism to support \"U.S. policy goals.\" On behalf of the NSA, the CSEC has set up covert spying posts in 20 countries around the world.\n\nIn Italy the Special Collection Service of the NSA maintains two separate surveillance posts in Rome and Milan. According to a secret NSA memo dated September 2010, the Italian embassy in Washington, D.C. has been targeted by two spy operations of the NSA:\n\nDue to concerns that terrorist or criminal networks may be secretly communicating via computer games, the NSA, GCHQ, CIA, and FBI have been conducting surveillance and scooping up data from the networks of many online games, including massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs) such as World of Warcraft, as well as virtual worlds such as Second Life, and the Xbox gaming console.\n\nThe NSA has cracked the most commonly used cellphone encryption technology, A5/1. According to a classified document leaked by Snowden, the agency can \"process encrypted A5/1\" even when it has not acquired an encryption key. In addition, the NSA uses various types of cellphone infrastructure, such as the links between carrier networks, to determine the location of a cellphone user tracked by Visitor Location Registers.\n\nUS district court judge for the District of Columbia, Richard Leon, declared on December 16, 2013, that the mass collection of metadata of Americans' telephone records by the National Security Agency probably violates the fourth amendment prohibition of unreasonable searches and seizures. Leon granted the request for a preliminary injunction that blocks the collection of phone data for two private plaintiffs (Larry Klayman, a conservative lawyer, and Charles Strange, father of a cryptologist killed in Afghanistan when his helicopter was shot down in 2011) and ordered the government to destroy any of their records that have been gathered. But the judge stayed action on his ruling pending a government appeal, recognizing in his 68-page opinion the \"significant national security interests at stake in this case and the novelty of the constitutional issues.\"\n\nHowever federal judge William H. Pauley III in New York City ruled the U.S. government's global telephone data-gathering system is needed to thwart potential terrorist attacks, and that it can only work if everyone's calls are swept in. U.S. District Judge Pauley also ruled that Congress legally set up the program and that it does not violate anyone's constitutional rights. The judge also concluded that the telephone data being swept up by NSA did not belong to telephone users, but to the telephone companies. He further ruled that when NSA obtains such data from the telephone companies, and then probes into it to find links between callers and potential terrorists, this further use of the data was not even a search under the Fourth Amendment. He also concluded that the controlling precedent is \"Smith v. Maryland\": \"Smith's bedrock holding is that an individual has no legitimate expectation of privacy in information provided to third parties,\" Judge Pauley wrote. The American Civil Liberties Union declared on January 2, 2012 that it will appeal Judge Pauley's ruling that NSA bulk the phone record collection is legal. \"The government has a legitimate interest in tracking the associations of suspected terrorists, but tracking those associations does not require the government to subject every citizen to permanent surveillance,\" deputy ACLU legal director Jameel Jaffer said in a statement.\n\nIn recent years, American and British intelligence agencies conducted surveillance on more than 1,100 targets, including the office of an Israeli prime minister, heads of international aid organizations, foreign energy companies and a European Union official involved in antitrust battles with American technology businesses.\n\nA catalog of high-tech gadgets and software developed by the NSA's Tailored Access Operations (TAO) was leaked by the German news magazine \"Der Spiegel\". Dating from 2008, the catalog revealed the existence of special gadgets modified to capture computer screenshots and USB flash drives secretly fitted with radio transmitters to broadcast stolen data over the airwaves, and fake base stations intended to intercept mobile phone signals, as well as many other secret devices and software implants listed here:\n\nThe Tailored Access Operations (TAO) division of the NSA intercepted the shipping deliveries of computers and laptops in order to install spyware and physical implants on electronic gadgets. This was done in close cooperation with the FBI and the CIA. NSA officials responded to the Spiegel reports with a statement, which said: \"Tailored Access Operations is a unique national asset that is on the front lines of enabling NSA to defend the nation and its allies. [TAO's] work is centred on computer network exploitation in support of foreign intelligence collection.\"\n\nIn a separate disclosure unrelated to Snowden, the French Trésor public, which runs a certificate authority, was found to have issued fake certificates impersonating Google in order to facilitate spying on French government employees via man-in-the-middle attacks.\n\nThe NSA is working to build a powerful quantum computer capable of breaking all types of encryption. The effort is part of a US$79.7 million research program known as \"Penetrating Hard Targets\". It involves extensive research carried out in large, shielded rooms known as Faraday cages, which are designed to prevent electromagnetic radiation from entering or leaving. Currently, the NSA is close to producing basic building blocks that will allow the agency to gain \"complete quantum control on two semiconductor qubits\". Once a quantum computer is successfully built, it would enable the NSA to unlock the encryption that protects data held by banks, credit card companies, retailers, brokerages, governments and health care providers.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", the NSA is monitoring approximately 100,000 computers worldwide with spy software named Quantum. Quantum enables the NSA to conduct surveillance on those computers on the one hand, and can also create a digital highway for launching cyberattacks on the other hand. Among the targets are the Chinese and Russian military, but also trade institutions within the European Union. The NYT also reported that the NSA can access and alter computers which are not connected with the internet by a secret technology in use by the NSA since 2008. The prerequisite is the physical insertion of the radio frequency hardware by a spy, a manufacturer or an unwitting user. The technology relies on a covert channel of radio waves that can be transmitted from tiny circuit boards and USB cards inserted surreptitiously into the computers. In some cases, they are sent to a briefcase-size relay station that intelligence agencies can set up miles away from the target. The technology can also transmit malware back to the infected computer.\n\nChannel 4 and \"The Guardian\" revealed the existence of Dishfire, a massive database of the NSA that collects hundreds of millions of text messages on a daily basis. GCHQ has been given full access to the database, which it uses to obtain personal information of Britons by exploiting a legal loophole.\n\nEach day, the database receives and stores the following amounts of data:\n\nThe database is supplemented with an analytical tool known as the Prefer program, which processes SMS messages to extract other types of information including contacts from missed call alerts.\n\nThe Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board report on mass surveillance was released on January 23, 2014. It recommends to end the bulk telephone metadata, i.e., bulk phone records – phone numbers dialed, call times and durations, but not call content collection – collection program, to create a \"Special Advocate\" to be involved in some cases before the FISA court judge and to release future and past FISC decisions \"that involve novel interpretations of FISA or other significant questions of law, technology or compliance.\"\nAccording to a joint disclosure by \"The New York Times\", \"The Guardian\", and ProPublica, the NSA and GCHQ have begun working together to collect and store data from dozens of smartphone application software by 2007 at the latest. A 2008 GCHQ report, leaked by Snowden asserts that \"anyone using Google Maps on a smartphone is working in support of a GCHQ system\". The NSA and GCHQ have traded recipes for various purposes such as grabbing location data and journey plans that are made when a target uses Google Maps, and vacuuming up address books, buddy lists, phone logs and geographic data embedded in photos posted on the mobile versions of numerous social networks such as Facebook, Flickr, LinkedIn, Twitter and other services. In a separate 20-page report dated 2012, GCHQ cited the popular smartphone game \"Angry Birds\" as an example of how an application could be used to extract user data. Taken together, such forms of data collection would allow the agencies to collect vital information about a user's life, including his or her home country, current location (through geolocation), age, gender, ZIP code, marital status, income, ethnicity, sexual orientation, education level, number of children, etc.\n\nA GCHQ document dated August 2012 provided details of the Squeaky Dolphin surveillance program, which enables GCHQ to conduct broad, real-time monitoring of various social media features and social media traffic such as YouTube video views, the Like button on Facebook, and Blogspot/Blogger visits without the knowledge or consent of the companies providing those social media features. The agency's \"Squeaky Dolphin\" program can collect, analyze and utilize YouTube, Facebook and Blogger data in specific situations in real time for analysis purposes. The program also collects the addresses from the billions of videos watched daily as well as some user information for analysis purposes.\n\nDuring the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, the NSA and its Five Eyes partners monitored the communications of delegates of numerous countries. This was done to give their own policymakers a negotiating advantage.\n\nThe Communications Security Establishment Canada (CSEC) has been tracking Canadian air passengers via free Wi-Fi services at a major Canadian airport. Passengers who exited the airport terminal continued to be tracked as they showed up at other Wi-Fi locations across Canada. In a CSEC document dated May 2012, the agency described how it had gained access to two communications systems with over 300,000 users in order to pinpoint a specific imaginary target. The operation was executed on behalf of the NSA as a trial run to test a new technology capable of tracking down \"any target that makes occasional forays into other cities/regions.\" This technology was subsequently shared with Canada's Five Eyes partners – Australia, New Zealand, Britain, and the United States.\n\nAccording to research by \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" and TV network NDR the mobile phone of former German chancellor Gerhard Schröder was monitored from 2002 onwards, reportedly because of his government's opposition to military intervention in Iraq. The source of the latest information is a document leaked by Edward Snowden. The document, containing information about the National Sigint Requirement List (NSRL), had previously been interpreted as referring only to Angela Merkel's mobile. However \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" and NDR claim to have confirmation from NSA insiders that the surveillance authorisation pertains not to the individual, but the political post – which in 2002 was still held by Schröder. According to research by the two media outlets, Schröder was placed as number 388 on the list, which contains the names of persons and institutions to be put under surveillance by the NSA.\n\nGCHQ launched a cyber-attack on the activist network \"Anonymous\", using denial-of-service attack (DoS) to shut down a chatroom frequented by the network's members and to spy on them. The attack, dubbed Rolling Thunder, was conducted by a GCHQ unit known as the Joint Threat Research Intelligence Group (JTRIG). The unit successfully uncovered the true identities of several Anonymous members.\n\nThe NSA Section 215 bulk telephony metadata program which seeks to stockpile records on all calls made in the U.S. is collecting less than 30 percent of all Americans' call records because of an inability to keep pace with the explosion in cellphone use according to the Washington Post. The controversial program permits the NSA after a warrant granted by the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to record numbers, length and location of every call from the participating carriers.\n\n\"The Intercept\" reported that the U.S. government is using primarily NSA surveillance to target people for drone strikes overseas. In its report \"The Intercept\" author detail the flawed methods which are used to locate targets for lethal drone strikes, resulting in the deaths of innocent people. According to the Washington Post NSA analysts and collectors i.e. NSA personnel which controls electronic surveillance equipment use the NSA's sophisticated surveillance capabilities to track individual targets geographically and in real time, while drones and tactical units aimed their weaponry against those targets to take them out.\n\nAn unnamed US law firm, reported to be Mayer Brown, was targeted by Australia's ASD. According to Snowden's documents, the ASD had offered to hand over these intercepted communications to the NSA. This allowed government authorities to be \"able to continue to cover the talks, providing highly useful intelligence for interested US customers\".\n\nNSA and GCHQ documents revealed that the anti-secrecy organization WikiLeaks and other activist groups were targeted for government surveillance and criminal prosecution. In particular, the IP addresses of visitors to WikiLeaks were collected in real time, and the US government urged its allies to file criminal charges against the founder of WikiLeaks, Julian Assange, due to his organization's publication of the Afghanistan war logs. The WikiLeaks organization was designated as a \"malicious foreign actor\".\n\nQuoting an unnamed NSA official in Germany, \"Bild am Sonntag\" reported that whilst President Obama's order to stop spying on Merkel was being obeyed, the focus had shifted to bugging other leading government and business figures including Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere, a close confidant of Merkel. Caitlin Hayden, a security adviser to President Obama, was quoted in the newspaper report as saying, \"The US has made clear it gathers intelligence in exactly the same way as any other states.\"\n\n\"The Intercept\" reveals that government agencies are infiltrating online communities and engaging in \"false flag operations\" to discredit targets among them people who have nothing to do with terrorism or national security threats. The two main tactics that are currently used are the injection of all sorts of false material onto the internet in order to destroy the reputation of its targets; and the use of social sciences and other techniques to manipulate online discourse and activism to generate outcomes it considers desirable.\n\nThe Guardian reported that Britain's surveillance agency GCHQ, with aid from the National Security Agency, intercepted and stored the webcam images of millions of internet users not suspected of wrongdoing. The surveillance program codenamed Optic Nerve collected still images of Yahoo webcam chats (one image every five minutes) in bulk and saved them to agency databases. The agency discovered \"that a surprising number of people use webcam conversations to show intimate parts of their body to the other person\", estimating that between 3% and 11% of the Yahoo webcam imagery harvested by GCHQ contains \"undesirable nudity\".\n\nThe NSA has built an infrastructure which enables it to covertly hack into computers on a mass scale by using automated systems that reduce the level of human oversight in the process. The NSA relies on an automated system codenamed TURBINE which in essence enables the automated management and control of a large network of implants (a form of remotely transmitted malware on selected individual computer devices or in bulk on tens of thousands of devices). As quoted by \"The Intercept\", TURBINE is designed to \"allow the current implant network to scale to large size (millions of implants) by creating a system that does automated control implants by groups instead of individually.\" The NSA has shared many of its files on the use of implants with its counterparts in the so-called Five Eyes surveillance alliance – the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia.\n\nAmong other things due to TURBINE and its control over the implants the NSA is capable of:\n\n\nThe TURBINE implants are linked to, and relies upon, a large network of clandestine surveillance \"sensors\" that the NSA has installed at locations across the world, including the agency's headquarters in Maryland and eavesdropping bases used by the agency in Misawa, Japan and Menwith Hill, England. Codenamed as TURMOIL, the sensors operate as a sort of high-tech surveillance dragnet, monitoring packets of data as they are sent across the Internet. When TURBINE implants exfiltrate data from infected computer systems, the TURMOIL sensors automatically identify the data and return it to the NSA for analysis. And when targets are communicating, the TURMOIL system can be used to send alerts or \"tips\" to TURBINE, enabling the initiation of a malware attack. To identify surveillance targets, the NSA uses a series of data \"selectors\" as they flow across Internet cables. These selectors can include email addresses, IP addresses, or the unique \"cookies\" containing a username or other identifying information that are sent to a user's computer by websites such as Google, Facebook, Hotmail, Yahoo, and Twitter, unique Google advertising cookies that track browsing habits, unique encryption key fingerprints that can be traced to a specific user, and computer IDs that are sent across the Internet when a Windows computer crashes or updates.\n\nThe CIA was accused by U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairwoman Dianne Feinstein of spying on a stand-alone computer network established for the committee in its investigation of allegations of CIA abuse in a George W. Bush-era detention and interrogation program.\n\nA voice interception program codenamed MYSTIC began in 2009. Along with RETRO, short for \"retrospective retrieval\" (RETRO is voice audio recording buffer that allows retrieval of captured content up to 30 days into the past), the MYSTIC program is capable of recording \"100 percent\" of a foreign country's telephone calls, enabling the NSA to rewind and review conversations up to 30 days and the relating metadata. With the capability to store up to 30 days of recorded conversations MYSTIC enables the NSA to pull an instant history of the person's movements, associates and plans.\n\nOn March 21, \"Le Monde\" published slides from an internal presentation of the Communications Security Establishment Canada, which attributed a piece of malicious software to French intelligence. The CSEC presentation concluded that the list of malware victims matched French intelligence priorities and found French cultural reference in the malware's code, including the name Babar, a popular French children's character, and the developer name \"Titi\".\n\nThe French telecommunications corporation Orange S.A. shares its call data with the French intelligence agency DGSE, which hands over the intercepted data to GCHQ.\n\nThe NSA has spied on the Chinese technology company Huawei. Huawei is a leading manufacturer of smartphones, tablets, mobile phone infrastructure, and WLAN routers and installs fiber optic cable. According to \"Der Spiegel\" this \"kind of technology […] is decisive in the NSA's battle for data supremacy.\" The NSA, in an operation named \"Shotgiant\", was able to access Huawei's email archive and the source code for Huawei's communications products. The US government has had longstanding concerns that Huawei may not be independent of the People's Liberation Army and that the Chinese government might use equipment manufactured by Huawei to conduct cyberespionage or cyberwarfare. The goals of the NSA operation were to assess the relationship between Huawei and the PLA, to learn more the Chinese government's plans and to use information from Huawei to spy on Huawei's customers, including Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kenya, and Cuba. Former Chinese President Hu Jintao, the Chinese Trade Ministry, banks, as well as telecommunications companies were also targeted by the NSA.\n\n\"The Intercept\" published a document of an NSA employee discussing how to build a database of IP addresses, webmail, and Facebook accounts associated with system administrators so that the NSA can gain access to the networks and systems they administer.\n\nAt the end of March 2014, \"Der Spiegel\" and \"The Intercept\" published, based on a series of classified files from the archive provided to reporters by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, articles related to espionage efforts by GCHQ and NSA in Germany. The British GCHQ targeted three German internet firms for information about Internet traffic passing through internet exchange points, important customers of the German internet providers, their technology suppliers as well as future technical trends in their business sector and company employees. The NSA was granted by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court the authority for blanket surveillance of Germany, its people and institutions, regardless whether those affected are suspected of having committed an offense or not, without an individualized court order specifying on March 7, 2013. In addition Germany's chancellor Angela Merkel was listed in a surveillance search machine and database named Nymrod along with 121 others foreign leaders. As \"The Intercept\" wrote: \"The NSA uses the Nymrod system to 'find information relating to targets that would otherwise be tough to track down,' according to internal NSA documents. Nymrod sifts through secret reports based on intercepted communications as well as full transcripts of faxes, phone calls, and communications collected from computer systems. More than 300 'cites' for Merkel are listed as available in intelligence reports and transcripts for NSA operatives to read.\"\n\nTowards the end of April, Edward Snowden said that the United States surveillance agencies spy on Americans more than anyone else in the world, contrary to anything that has been said by the government up until this point.\n\nAn article published by Ars Technica shows NSA's Tailored Access Operations (TAO) employees intercepting a Cisco router.\n\n\"The Intercept\" and WikiLeaks revealed information about which countries were having their communications collected as part of the MYSTIC surveillance program. On May 19, \"The Intercept\" reported that the NSA is recording and archiving nearly every cell phone conversation in the Bahamas with a system called SOMALGET, a subprogram of MYSTIC. The mass surveillance has been occurring without the Bahamian government's permission. Aside from the Bahamas, \"The Intercept\" reported NSA interception of cell phone metadata in Kenya, the Philippines, Mexico and a fifth country it did not name due to \"credible concerns that doing so could lead to increased violence.\" WikiLeaks released a statement on May 23 claiming that Afghanistan was the unnamed nation.\n\nIn a statement responding to the revelations, the NSA said \"the implication that NSA's foreign intelligence collection is arbitrary and unconstrained is false.\"\n\nThrough its global surveillance operations the NSA exploits the flood of images included in emails, text messages, social media, videoconferences and other communications to harvest millions of images. These images are then used by the NSA in sophisticated facial recognition programs to track suspected terrorists and other intelligence targets.\n\nVodafone revealed that there were secret wires that allowed government agencies direct access to their networks. This access does not require warrants and the direct access wire is often equipment in a locked room. In six countries where Vodafone operates, the law requires telecommunication companies to install such access or allows governments to do so. Vodafone did not name these countries in case some governments retaliated by imprisoning their staff. Shami Chakrabarti of Liberty said \"For governments to access phone calls at the flick of a switch is unprecedented and terrifying. Snowden revealed the internet was already treated as fair game. Bluster that all is well is wearing pretty thin – our analogue laws need a digital overhaul.\" Vodafone published its first Law Enforcement Disclosure Report on June 6, 2014. Vodafone group privacy officer Stephen Deadman said \"These pipes exist, the direct access model exists. We are making a call to end direct access as a means of government agencies obtaining people's communication data. Without an official warrant, there is no external visibility. If we receive a demand we can push back against the agency. The fact that a government has to issue a piece of paper is an important constraint on how powers are used.\" Gus Hosein, director of Privacy International said \"I never thought the telcos would be so complicit. It's a brave step by Vodafone and hopefully the other telcos will become more brave with disclosure, but what we need is for them to be braver about fighting back against the illegal requests and the laws themselves.\"\n\nAbove-top-secret documentation of a covert surveillance program named Overseas Processing Centre 1 (OPC-1) (codenamed \"CIRCUIT\") by GCHQ was published by \"The Register\". Based on documents leaked by Edward Snowden, GCHQ taps into undersea fiber optic cables via secret spy bases near the Strait of Hormuz and Yemen. BT and Vodafone are implicated.\n\nThe Danish newspaper \"Dagbladet Information\" and \"The Intercept\" revealed on June 19, 2014, the NSA mass surveillance program codenamed RAMPART-A. Under RAMPART-A, 'third party' countries tap into fiber optic cables carrying the majority of the world's electronic communications and are secretly allowing the NSA to install surveillance equipment on these fiber-optic cables. The foreign partners of the NSA turn massive amounts of data like the content of phone calls, faxes, e-mails, internet chats, data from virtual private networks, and calls made using Voice over IP software like Skype over to the NSA. In return these partners receive access to the NSA's sophisticated surveillance equipment so that they too can spy on the mass of data that flows in and out of their territory. Among the partners participating in the NSA mass surveillance program are Denmark and Germany.\n\nDuring the week of July 4, a 31-year-old male employee of Germany's intelligence service BND was arrested on suspicion of spying for the United States. The employee is suspected of spying on the German Parliamentary Committee investigating the NSA spying scandal.\n\nFormer NSA official and whistleblower William Binney spoke at a Centre for Investigative Journalism conference in London. According to Binney, \"at least 80% of all audio calls, not just metadata, are recorded and stored in the US. The NSA lies about what it stores.\" He also stated that the majority of fiber optic cables run through the U.S., which \"is no accident and allows the US to view all communication coming in.\"\n\n\"The Washington Post\" released a review of a cache provided by Snowden containing roughly 160,000 text messages and e-mails intercepted by the NSA between 2009 and 2012. The newspaper concluded that nine out of ten account holders whose conversations were recorded by the agency \"were not the intended surveillance targets but were caught in a net the agency had cast for somebody else.\" In its analysis, \"The Post\" also noted that many of the account holders were Americans.\n\nOn July 9, a soldier working within Germany's Federal Ministry of Defence (BMVg) fell under suspicion of spying for the United States. As a result of the July 4 case and this one, the German government expelled the CIA station chief in Germany on July 17.\n\nOn July 18, former State Department official John Tye released an editorial in \"The Washington Post\", highlighting concerns over data collection under Executive Order 12333. Tye's concerns are rooted in classified material he had access to through the State Department, though he has not publicly released any classified materials.\n\n\"The Intercept\" reported that the NSA is \"secretly providing data to nearly two dozen U.S. government agencies with a 'Google-like' search engine\" called ICREACH. The database, \"The Intercept\" reported, is accessible to domestic law enforcement agencies including the FBI and the Drug Enforcement Administration and was built to contain more than 850 billion metadata records about phone calls, emails, cellphone locations, and text messages.\n\nBased on documents obtained from Snowden, \"The Intercept\" reported that the NSA and GCHQ had broken into the internal computer network of Gemalto and stolen the encryption keys that are used in SIM cards no later than 2010. , the company is the world's largest manufacturer of SIM cards, making about two billion cards a year. With the keys, the intelligence agencies could eavesdrop on cell phones without the knowledge of mobile phone operators or foreign governments.\n\n\"The New Zealand Herald\", in partnership with \"The Intercept\", revealed that the New Zealand government used XKeyscore to spy on candidates for the position of World Trade Organization director general and also members of the Solomon Islands government.\n\nIn January 2015, the DEA revealed that it had been collecting metadata records for all telephone calls made by Americans to 116 countries linked to drug trafficking. The DEA's program was separate from the telephony metadata programs run by the NSA. In April, \"USA Today\" reported that the DEA's data collection program began in 1992 and included all telephone calls between the United States and from Canada and Mexico. Current and former DEA officials described the program as the precursor of the NSA's similar programs. The DEA said its program was suspended in September 2013, after a review of the NSA's programs and that it was \"ultimately terminated.\"\n\nSnowden provided journalists at \"The Intercept\" with GCHQ documents regarding another secret program \"Karma Police\", calling itself \"the world's biggest\" data mining operation, formed to create profiles on every visible Internet user's browsing habits. By 2009 it had stored over 1.1 trillion web browsing sessions, and by 2012 was recording 50 billion sessions per day.\n\n\n\n2017 disclosures by WikiLeaks were dubbed Vault7.\n\nThe disclosure provided impetus for the creation of social movements against mass surveillance, such as Restore the Fourth, and actions like Stop Watching Us and The Day We Fight Back. On the legal front, the Electronic Frontier Foundation joined a coalition of diverse groups filing suit against the NSA. Several human rights organizations have urged the Obama administration not to prosecute, but protect, \"whistleblower Snowden\": Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Transparency International, and the Index on Censorship, among others. On the economic front, several consumer surveys registered a drop in online shopping and banking activity as a result of the Snowden revelations.\n\nDomestically, President Barack Obama claimed that there is \"no spying on Americans\", and White House Press Secretary Jay Carney asserted that the surveillance programs revealed by Snowden have been authorized by Congress.\n\nOn the international front, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder stated that \"we cannot target even foreign persons overseas without a valid foreign intelligence purpose.\"\n\nPrime Minister David Cameron warned journalists that \"if they don't demonstrate some social responsibility it will be very difficult for government to stand back and not to act.\" Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg emphasized that the media should \"absolutely defend the principle of secrecy for the intelligence agencies\".\n\nForeign Secretary William Hague claimed that \"we take great care to balance individual privacy with our duty to safeguard the public and UK national security.\" Hague defended the Five Eyes alliance and reiterated that the British-U.S. intelligence relationship must not be endangered because it \"saved many lives\".\n\nFormer Prime Minister Tony Abbott stated that \"every Australian governmental agency, every Australian official at home and abroad, operates in accordance with the law\". Abbott criticized the Australian Broadcasting Corporation for being unpatriotic due to its reporting on the documents provided by Snowden, whom Abbott described as a \"traitor\". Foreign Minister Julie Bishop also denounced Snowden as a traitor and accused him of \"unprecedented\" treachery. Bishop defended the Five Eyes alliance and reiterated that the Australian–U.S. intelligence relationship must not be endangered because it \"saves lives\".\n\nIn July 2013, Chancellor Angela Merkel defended the surveillance practices of the NSA, and described the United States as \"our truest ally throughout the decades\". After the NSA's surveillance on Merkel was revealed, however, the Chancellor compared the NSA with the Stasi. According to \"The Guardian\", Berlin is using the controversy over NSA spying as leverage to enter the exclusive Five Eyes alliance.\n\nInterior Minister Hans-Peter Friedrich stated that \"the Americans take our data privacy concerns seriously.\" Testifying before the German Parliament, Friedrich defended the NSA's surveillance, and cited five terrorist plots on German soil that were prevented because of the NSA. However, in April 2014, another German interior minister criticized the United States for failing to provide sufficient assurances to Germany that it had reined in its spying tactics. Thomas de Maiziere, a close ally of Merkel, told \"Der Spiegel\": \"U.S. intelligence methods may be justified to a large extent by security needs, but the tactics are excessive and over-the-top.\"\n\nMinister for Foreign Affairs Carl Bildt, defended the FRA and described its surveillance practices as a \"national necessity\". Minister for Defence Karin Enström said that Sweden's intelligence exchange with other countries is \"critical for our security\" and that \"intelligence operations occur within a framework with clear legislation, strict controls and under parliamentary oversight.\"\n\nInterior Minister Ronald Plasterk apologized for incorrectly claiming that the NSA had collected 1.8 million records of metadata in the Netherlands. Plasterk acknowledged that it was in fact Dutch intelligence services who collected the records and transferred them to the NSA.\n\nThe Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt has praised the American intelligence agencies, claiming they have prevented terrorist attacks in Denmark, and expressed her personal belief that the Danish people \"should be grateful\" for the Americans' surveillance. She has later claimed that the Danish authorities have no basis for assuming that American intelligence agencies have performed illegal spying activities towards Denmark or Danish interests.\nIn July 2013, the German government announced an extensive review of Germany's intelligence services.\n\nIn August 2013, the U.S. government announced an extensive review of U.S. intelligence services.\n\nIn October 2013, the British government announced an extensive review of British intelligence services.\n\nIn December 2013, the Canadian government announced an extensive review of Canada's intelligence services.\n\nIn January 2014, U.S. President Barack Obama said that \"the sensational way in which these disclosures have come out has often shed more heat than light\" and critics such as Sean Wilentz claimed that \"the NSA has acted far more responsibly than the claims made by the leakers and publicized by the press.\" In Wilentz' view \"The leakers have gone far beyond justifiably blowing the whistle on abusive programs. In addition to their alarmism about [U.S.] domestic surveillance, many of the Snowden documents released thus far have had nothing whatsoever to do with domestic surveillance.\" Edward Lucas, former Moscow bureau chief for \"The Economist\", agreed, asserting that \"Snowden's revelations neatly and suspiciously fits the interests of one country: Russia\" and citing Masha Gessen's statement that \"The Russian propaganda machine has not gotten this much mileage out of a US citizen since Angela Davis's murder trial in 1971.\"\n\nBob Cesca objected to \"The New York Times\" failing to redact the name of an NSA employee and the specific location where an al Qaeda group was being targeted in a series of slides the paper made publicly available.\n\nRussian journalist Andrei Soldatov argued that Snowden's revelations had had negative consequences for internet freedom in Russia, as Russian authorities increased their own surveillance and regulation on the pretext of protecting the privacy of Russian users. Snowden's name was invoked by Russian legislators who supported measures forcing platforms such as Google, Facebook, Twitter and Gmail and YouTube to locate their servers on Russian soil or install SORM black boxes on their servers so that Russian authorities could control them. Soldatov also contended that as a result of the disclosures, international support for having national governments take over the powers of the organizations involved in coordinating the Internet's global architectures had grown, which could lead to a Balkanization of the Internet that restricted free access to information. The Montevideo Statement on the Future of Internet Cooperation issued in October 2013, by ICANN and other organizations warned against \"Internet fragmentation at a national level\" and expressed \"strong concern over the undermining of the trust and confidence of Internet users globally due to recent revelations\".\n\nIn late 2014, Freedom House said \"[s]ome states are using the revelations of widespread surveillance by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) as an excuse to augment their own monitoring capabilities, frequently with little or no oversight, and often aimed at the political opposition and human rights activists.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10068769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10068769", "title": "Gobabeb", "text": "Gobabeb\n\nThe Gobabeb Training and Research Center is an internationally recognised centre for dry land training and research in Namibia. It is located in the Namib Desert, 120 km south-east of Walvis Bay. \n\nGobabeb was founded by the Austrian entomologist Dr. Charles Koch in 1962. Since 1998 Gobabeb has been a joint Venture between the \"Ministry of Environment and Tourism\" (MET) and the \"Desert Research Foundation Namibia\" (DRFN). Gobabeb conducts research in the fields of climate, ecology and geomorphology. Further it tests, demonstrates and promotes Appropriate Technologies. By conducting training courses Gobabeb aims to improve the public awareness and knowledge of dry land ecology and environmental issues. The station consists of permanent researchers, students, and interns, as well as short time visitors such as school and university groups, and tourists. Gobabeb also hosts film crews, journalists and artists.\n\nThe Station is located 120 km south-east of Walvis Bay in Namibia's largest nature reserve \"Namib Naukluft Park\". Gobabeb lies at the meeting point of three different ecosystems: the ephemeral Kuiseb River, the Sand Dunes Sea to the south and the gravel plains to the north. This offers an excellent diversity of environments in which to conduct research.\n\nAs the station is located in the Namib desert, the climate is hyperarid with an average annual precipitation of 23.8 mm, about 65% during the summer months (December to May). In 2010/2011 an extreme rainfall of about 165 millimetres was measured during rainy season. With each average monthly temperature above 18 °C, in Köppen climate classification, the climate is considered as tropical. With an average annual temperature of 21.4 °C, the climate is nearly 6 °C warmer than the temperate coast (15.5 °C at Walvis Bay) though at about 400 m above sea level : given that Gobabeb is at about 60 km from the coast it is much less under the influence of the cold coastal ocean Benguela current than coastal areas such as Walvis Bay. A cold coastal ocean current cools the above oceanic air. The latter being cooled, water vapour in that air may become liquid water. Therefore, clouds and particularly fogs may appear, hugely diminishing insolation and thus temperature. Thus cold ocean currents along western coast of continents doubly cool these coasts : by their own cold and by the nebulosity (due to clouds including fogs and mists) they bring. For instance Walvis Bay has 140 days of fog per year while Gobabeb has \"only\" 94 days. Gobabeb's remoteness from the Atlantic explains why it is significantly warmer than the Namibian coast \"(Walvis Bay average temperature is only 15.4 °C)\" despite being at a greater altitude.\n\nThe Station consists of the Community Research – Center, a library, laboratories, an office block, a meeting hall, the iconic water tower, staff houses and accommodations for visitors.\n\nGobabeb was formerly a Topnaar community called \"!Nomabeb\", which means \"place of the figtree\". In 1958 the Austrian entomologist Dr. Charles Koch did an expedition in the Namib Desert, focused on the large diversity of beetles found in the area. One year later the South African Transvaal Museum decided to found a research station in, what was at the time known as, South West Africa (today called Namibia). In 1962 the \"Namib Desert Research Station\" (\"NDSR\") was founded, with Dr. Charles Koch appointed as the first director of the station. The government of South Africa, which controlled South West Africa, supported Gobabeb by giving the ground on leasehold for 50 years and financial support of R2,000 per year.\n\nIn 1963 the construction of the staff houses, laboratory, office block, garages and a small water tower was completed. In 1965 a partnership between Gobabeb and the \"South African Council of Scientific and Industrial Research\" (\"CSIR\") led to the foundation of the \"Desert Ecological Research Unit\" (\"DERU\"). The partnership provided R25,000 for the station which was invested in additional buildings.\n\nFive years later, in 1970, the director Dr. Charles Koch died and the biologist Dr. Mary Seely took over the directorship. In 1983, the first Open Weekend was held at Gobabeb, beginning a tradition that continues to this day. In 1989 the first course for Namibian university students in \"Ecology Methods\" was held at Gobabeb.\n\nWith the Independence of Namibia in 1990 the \"DERU\" became the \"Desert Research Foundation of Namibia\" (DRFN). The main seat of the DRFN moved to Windhoek, but the research station remained in Gobabeb. In March 1998 \"Gobabeb Training and Research Center\" (\"GTRC\") was founded as a joint venture agreement between the \"DRFN\" and the \"Ministry of Environment and Tourism\" (\"MET\"). Additionally, the German \"Ministerium für wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit und Entwicklung\" (\"Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development\") has been a great supporter of GTRC.\n\nSince the formation of the joint venture, Gobabeb has operated as a research, training and education centre. Researchers from all over the world study subjects including desertification, water procurement, and the adaption of animals and plants to the desert environment. In 2002, after 32 years directorship at Gababeb, Dr. Mary Seely passed the position on to Dr. Joh Henschel. The new director arranged the building of several new accommodations for visitors as well as the building of the Community Resource – Center at Gobabeb.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2004 Gobabeb's energy system was overhauled as a part of the \"Demonstration Project at Gobabeb of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency\" (DeGREEE). In May 2005 Prime Minister Angula officially inaugurated of the \"Gobabeb Training and Research Center\".\nIn March 2011 Joh Henschel resigned his position as director, ushering in a period of transition at Gobabeb lasting from March to August 2011, when the station's affairs were handled by a management committee and an overseer. In January 2013 Gillian Maggs-Kölling was appointed Executive Director of GTRC.\n\nThe overall goal of research at Gobabeb is to improve the understanding of arid land ecosystems, particularly their variability, with a focus on supporting well-trained specialists and decision-makers in southern Africa and the world. Gobabeb has been the locus of much of the basic research on Namib desert organisms and, more broadly, into the ecology of southern African deserts and arid land. Every year over 100 scientists visit Gobabeb to undertake research and in the past 50 years, over 1900 publications has been produced at Gobabeb. As a result of such research, the worldwide knowledge about animals and plants coping with the extreme conditions of the desert has vastly improved.\nThe fields of research at Gobabeb include: \n\nThe results of this research contribute to many other projects. In particular, long term ecological monitoring of climate and biodiversity, which in some cases has been collected continuously for almost 50 years, represents a valuable contribution to global scientific knowledge. Additionally, research results from Gobabeb support the \"Kuiseb Basin Management Committee\" to undertake its integrated land and water management program. \nIn 2010, the \"Namib Ecological Restoration and Monitoring Unit\" (\"NERMU\") was established at Gobabeb to address the issue of expanding uranium mining and prospecting within the Namib desert. To date, \"NERMU\" has researched or is researching the impact of mining and prospecting on the \"Hartmann's Mountain Zebra\", the \"Husab Sand Lizard\", \"hypolithic cyanobacteria\" and other organisms.\n\nTraining is a primary function of the \"Gobabeb Training and Research Center\". Over 1.000 learners come to Gobabeb each year, receiving training in various fields.\n\nMost of the participants are students from primary, secondary and tertiary school. However, farmers, private persons, community representatives and interested groups are also trained. The training is broad-based and concentrates on using participatory methods and hands-on approaches. The Programs are provided by Gobabeb staff, visiting trainers and local, regional and international expert. Training is offered in the fields of community based natural resource management, arid land management, desertification, ecology and appropriate technology.\n\nIn addition to short training courses, Gobabeb has offered long-term tertiary training to over 180 students at the centre.\nThe \"Summer Desertification Programme\" (\"SDP\") ran from 1993 to 2005. Participants were presented with a real-life research problem concerning land degradation, and involving bio-physical and socio-economic factors.\n\nFollowing the end of funding of \"SDP\", the Gobabeb \"In-Service Training Programme\" (\"GIST\")began in 2005 as a partnership between the Polytechnic of Namibia and Gobabeb. \"GIST\" research projects included one term of study (approximately 3-month) and covered a wide variety of topics related to the ecology of the Namib Desert.\n\nIn 2009, the \"GIST Program\" transformed into the \"Gobabeb Training and Research Internship Program\" (\"GTRIP\"), opening the course to all Namibian university students and recent graduates. Since 2010, research in the \"GTRIP\" course has focused on restoration ecology in the Namib Desert, contributing to the goals of \"NERMU\".\n\nGobabeb hosts also national and international interns and volunteers\n\nThe \"Gobabeb Training and Research Center\" has been built as an example of appropriate technology, which shows how appropriate technology and sustainable development can be used in daily life. It demonstrates techniques that are applicable at community and commercial/industrial levels.\nFollowing systems at Gobabeb are installed under the heading of Appropriate Technology:\n\n\nThe Gobabeb Centre Library is built for researchers, students and staff, working in and around Gobabeb, as well being open to interested visitors. The library provides access to information and works done in and around Gobabeb and in the Namib Desert. \nThe Library started in 1963 with its first in-house publications \"Scientific Papers of the Namib Desert Research Station\" by Gobabeb's first Director Dr. Charles Koch. Since then the library has grown to house the most extensive collection on arid zone research in ecology and biology in sub-Saharan Africa. It is certainly the leading information centre on the Namib Desert and also includes information on deserts of the world. This information is stored in \"books (1780\"), \"journal offprint publications (18790\") and in \"30 journal holdings\". \nTo offer easier access to library for our users, Gobabeb is in the process of digitising information stored in the library. With the help of D-LIB it soon will be possible to get information from the \"Gobabeb Centre Library\" via Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "592346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592346", "title": "Gregory Mathews", "text": "Gregory Mathews\n\nGregory Macalister Mathews CBE FRSE FZS FLS (10 September 1876 – 27 March 1949) was an Australian-born amateur ornithologist who spent most of his later life in England.\n\nHe was born in Biamble in New South Wales the son of Robert H. Mathews. He was educated at The King's School, Parramatta.\n\nMathews made his fortune in mining shares, and moved to England in 1902. In 1910 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were William Eagle Clarke, Ramsay Heatley Traquair, John Alexander Harvie-Brown and William Evans.\n\nMathews was a controversial figure in Australian ornithology. He was responsible for bringing trinomial nomenclature into local taxonomy, however he was regarded as an extreme splitter. He recognised large numbers of subspecies on scant evidence and few notes. In particular, this drew a hostile response from Archibald James Campbell, a leading Australian figure in birds at the time. He later began splitting genera. Dominic Serventy foretold that although a great many of these subspecies ceased to be recognised, future research would have to resort to the use of some of them if and when evidence supported their distinct status.\n\nHe was Chairman of the British Ornithologists' Club from 1935 to 1938. He was made CBE in 1939 for his services to ornithology.\n\nMathews described \"M. s. musgravei\", currently recognized as a subspecies of the splendid fairy-wren, in 1922 as a new species of bird.\n\nIn 1939 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union, and served as its president 1946–1947. He donated his ornithological library to the National Library of Australia in 1939.\n\nHe married Mrs Marian Wynne, a widow.\n\nHe died in Winchester on 27 March 1949.\n\nMathews contributed numerous papers to the ornithological literature, especially on avian taxonomy and nomenclature, as well as founding, funding, editing and being the principal contributor to the journal \"The Austral Avian Record\". Monographic or book-length works authored or coauthored by him include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40073824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40073824", "title": "Grigore Antipa National Museum of Natural History", "text": "Grigore Antipa National Museum of Natural History\n\nThe Grigore Antipa National Museum of Natural History (Romanian: Muzeul Național de Istorie Naturală \"Grigore Antipa\") is a Natural History museum, located in Bucharest, Romania. It was originally established as the National Museum of Natural History on 3 November 1834. It was renamed in 1933 after Grigore Antipa, who administered the museum for 51 years.\n"}
{"id": "1565547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1565547", "title": "Ground resonance", "text": "Ground resonance\n\nGround resonance is an imbalance in the rotation of a helicopter rotor when the blades become bunched up on one side of their rotational plane and cause an oscillation in phase with the frequency of the rocking of the helicopter on its landing gear. The effect is similar to the behavior of a washing machine when the clothes are concentrated in one place during the spin cycle. It occurs when the landing gear is prevented from freely moving about on the horizontal plane, typically when the aircraft is on the ground.\n\nArticulated rotor systems with drag hinges allow each individual blade to advance or lag in its rotation to compensate for stress on the blade caused by the acceleration and deceleration of the rotor hub (due to momentum conservation). When the spacing of the blades becomes irregular, it shifts the rotor's center of gravity from the axis of rotation, which causes an oscillation. When the airframe begins to rock back and forth from the oscillation, the oscillations can reinforce each other and cause the rotor's center of gravity to spiral away from the axis of rotation to a point beyond the compensating ability of the damping system.\n\nGround resonance is usually precipitated by a hard landing or an asymmetrical ground contact, and is more likely to occur when components of the landing gear or damping system are improperly maintained, such as the drag hinge dampers, oleo struts, or wheel tire pressure. Under extreme conditions, the initial shock can cause violent oscillations that quickly build and result in catastrophic damage of the entire airframe. In some cases, complete destruction occurs, e.g. body panels, fuel tanks, and engines are torn away, even at normal rotor speed.\n\nProper maintenance of the helicopter's damping system components can prevent ground resonance from taking hold. When it does occur, recovery is often possible if action is taken quickly. If sufficient rotor RPM exists, immediate takeoff can restore rotor balance by allowing the airframe to freely move and help damp the oscillation. If rotor RPM is very low during a ground resonance incident, complete shutdown may be sufficient.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30197642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30197642", "title": "Liquid junction interface", "text": "Liquid junction interface\n\nIn mass spectrometry, liquid junction interface is an ion source or set-up that couples peripheric devices, such as capillary electrophoresis, to mass spectrometry.\n\nSee the IUPAC recommendation definition as a means of coupling capillary electrophoresis to mass spectrometry in which a liquid reservoir surrounds the separation capillary and transfer capillary to the mass spectrometer. The reservoir provides electrical contact for the capillary electrophoresis.\n\nThe term liquid junction interface has also been used by Henry M. Fales and coworkers for ion sources where the analyte is in direct contact with the high voltage supply. This includes in particular nanospray ion sources where a wire made of stainless steel, gold or other conducting material makes contact with the sample solution inside uncoated spray capillaries. The principle is also applied when a stainless steel union connects a chromatography outlet to a spray capillary. Its use has a number of advantages with respect to simplification of interface or source design, easy handling and cost. Electrolysis effects have to be controlled.\n\nLiquid junction interfaces have been used for on-line desalting in conjunction with mass spectrometry. Thereby, chromatographic material such as C18 phase was directly placed in the flow path coming from a pump or an HPLC device. In a variation of the method, fine capillaries were densely packed with chromatographic phase to form separation columns and act as electrospray capillaries at the same time. This method is commonly employed in many proteomics laboratories.\n\nIt is of note that experimental designs where the direct application of high voltages to liquids to form aerosols and sprays has been described as early as 1917 in the context of not ionization, but atomization of liquids.\n\nLiquid junction potential - the process which occurs when two solutions of different concentrations are in contact with each other\n"}
{"id": "50353409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50353409", "title": "List of Award of Garden Merit camellias", "text": "List of Award of Garden Merit camellias\n\nBelow is a selected list of camellia varieties which currently (2016)\nhold the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. Camellias are popular shrubs of medium to large size (typically 1 to 4 cubic metres), originating in China and the far east. Best seen in a dappled woodland setting, they thrive in acid soil, like other calcifuges such as rhododendrons. They are especially valued for their glossy evergreen foliage and large showy blooms, in shades of red, pink and white. These can appear as early as November in favoured locations in the temperate Northern Hemisphere; but the main flowering season is early to mid spring (February to May).\n\nMaximum dimensions are shown in metres, after 10–20 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "50904986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50904986", "title": "List of Caladenia species", "text": "List of Caladenia species\n\nAlthough there is disagreement about the taxonomy of the genus \"Caladenia\", the following is a list of species recognised by the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. Common names are mostly those given by David L. Jones, or sometimes (especially for more recently described species or subspecies), those used by Andrew Brown.\n\n"}
{"id": "5879977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5879977", "title": "List of Desidae species", "text": "List of Desidae species\n\n, the World Spider Catalog accepts the following species in the family Desidae.\n\n\"Akatorea\" \n\n\"Amphinecta\" \n\n\"Austmusia\" \n\n\"Badumna\" \n\n\"Baiami\" \n\n\"Bakala\" \n\n\"Barahna\" \n\n\"Buyina\" \n\n\"Calacadia\" \n\n\"Cambridgea\" \n\n\"Canala\" \n\n\"Cicirra\" \n\n\"Colcarteria\" \n\n\"Corasoides\" \n\n\"Cunnawarra\" \n\n\"Desis\" \n\n\"Dunstanoides\" \n\n\"Epimecinus\" \n\n\"Forsterina\" \n\n\"Goyenia\" \n\n\"Helsonia\" \n\n\"Holomamoea\" \n\n\"Huara\" \n\n\"Ischalea\" \n\n\"Jalkaraburra\" \n\n\"Keera\" \n\n\"Lathyarcha\" \n\n\"Magua\" \n\n\"Makora\" \n\n\"Mamoea\" \n\n\"Mangareia\" \n\n\"Maniho\" \n\n\"Manjala\" \n\n\"Matachia\" \n\n\"Mesudus\" \n\n\"Metaltella\" \n\n\"Namandia\" \n\n\"Nanocambridgea\" \n\n\"Neororea\" \n\n\"Notomatachia\" \n\n\"Nuisiana\" \n\n\"Oparara\" \n\n\"Panoa\" \n\n\"Paramamoea\" \n\n\"Paramatachia\" \n\n\"Penaoola\" \n\n\"Phryganoporus\" \n\n\"Pitonga\" \n\n\"Poaka\" \n\n\"Porteria\" \n\n\"Quemusia\" \n\n\"Rangitata\" \n\n\"Rapua\" \n\n\"Reinga\" \n\n\"Rorea\" \n\n\"Syrorisa\" \n\n\"Tanganoides\" \n\n\"Taurongia\" \n\n\"Tuakana\" \n\n\"Waterea\" \n"}
{"id": "58049340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58049340", "title": "List of Sporobolus species", "text": "List of Sporobolus species\n\nThe genus \"Sporobolus\" contains about 160 species.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38656322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38656322", "title": "List of nature centers in Arkansas", "text": "List of nature centers in Arkansas\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of Arkansas. \n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28259025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28259025", "title": "List of poisonous animals", "text": "List of poisonous animals\n\nThis list is a partial list of animals that are poisonous to humans (and other animals), or put another way, their flesh is toxic if consumed, or in some cases touched:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1257003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1257003", "title": "List of poisonous plants", "text": "List of poisonous plants\n\nPoisonous plants are those plants that produce toxins that deter herbivores from consuming them. Plants cannot move to escape their predators, so they must have other means of protecting themselves from herbivorous animals. Some plants have physical defenses such as thorns, spines and prickles, but by far the most common type of protection is chemical. Over millennia, through the process of natural selection, plants have evolved the means to produce a vast and complicated array of chemical compounds in order to deter herbivores. Tannin, for example, is a defensive compound that emerged relatively early in the evolutionary history of plants, while more complex molecules such as polyacetylenes are found in younger groups of plants such as the Asterales. Many of the known plant defense compounds primarily defend against consumption by insects, though other animals, including humans, that consume such plants may also experience negative effects, ranging from mild discomfort to death.\n\nMany of these poisonous compounds also have important medicinal benefits. The varieties of phytochemical defenses in plants are so numerous that many questions about them remain unanswered, including:\n\n\nThese questions and others constitute an active area of research in modern botany, with important implications for understanding plant evolution and for medical science.\n\nBelow is an extensive, if incomplete, list of plants containing poisonous parts that pose a serious risk of illness, injury, or death to humans or animals. There is significant overlap between plants considered poisonous and those with psychotropic properties, some of which are toxic enough to present serious health risks at recreational doses. It is also important to remember that there is a distinction between plants that are poisonous because they naturally produce dangerous phytochemicals, and those that may become dangerous for other reasons, including but not limited to infection by bacterial, viral, or fungal parasites, the uptake of toxic compounds through contaminated soil or groundwater, and/or the ordinary processes of decay after the plant has died; this list deals exclusively with the former. Many plants, such as peanuts, also produce compounds that are only dangerous to people who have developed an allergic reaction to them, and with a few exceptions, those plants are not included on this list (see list of allergens instead). Human fatalities caused by poisonous plants – especially resulting from accidental ingestion – are rare in the United States.\n\nMany plants commonly used as food possess toxic parts, are toxic unless processed, or are toxic at certain stages of their lives. Some only pose a serious threat to certain animals (such as cats, dogs, or livestock) or certain types of people (such as infants, the elderly, or individuals with pathological vulnerabilities). Most of these food plants are safe for the average adult to eat in modest quantities. Notable examples include:\n\nCountless other plants not commonly used as food are also poisonous, and care should be taken to avoid accidentally contacting or ingesting them:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49598939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49598939", "title": "Mercaptobenzothiazole", "text": "Mercaptobenzothiazole\n\n2-Mercaptobenzothiazole (MBT) is an organosulfur compound with the formula CHNSCSH. The molecule consists of a benzene ring fused to a 2-mercaptothiazole ring. It is used in the sulfur vulcanization of rubber.\n\nIt is produced by the reaction of 2-aminothiophenol and carbon disulfide:\nThis method was developed by the discoverer of the compound. Other routes developed by Hoffmann included the reactions of carbon disulfide with 2-aminophenol and of sodium hydrosulfide with chlorobenzothiazole. Further synthetic advances were reported in the 1920s that included demonstration that phenyldithiocarbamates pyrolyze to benzothiazole derivative.\n\nIt oxidizes to give the disulfide, which is called MBTS. Upon oxidation in the presence of secondary amines, it gives sulfenamide derivatives. One commercially useful example is 2-morpholinodithiobenzothiazole (MBSS), which is used as an accelerator in the vulcanization of rubber.\n\nUsing MBT, rubber vulcanizes with less sulfur and at milder temperatures, both factors give a stronger product. This effect was reported in 1921 by workers at Pirelli and in 1920 by Lorin B. Sebrell at Goodyear Tire & Rubber.\n\nThis compound is used as cooling tower biocide.\n\nThe compound has also been used in the past in the gold-mining industry to \"float\" the gold from ore residue as part of the extraction process.\n\nStudies have identified it as a potiential human carcinogen. In 2016, it was identified by the World Health Organization as probably carcinogenic to humans.\n\nIt causes allergic contact dermatitis. The derivative morpholinylmercaptobenzothiazole is a reported allergen in protective gloves, including latex, nitrile, and neoprene gloves.\n\nIt becomes air-borne as a result of wear on car tires, and is able to be inhaled.\n"}
{"id": "49579270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49579270", "title": "Mohammad Aamer (cricketer, born 1965)", "text": "Mohammad Aamer (cricketer, born 1965)\n\nMohammad Aamer (born 9 March 1965) is a former Pakistani first-class cricketer who played for Karachi cricket team. He played a single List A game.\n"}
{"id": "25589813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25589813", "title": "Nauyat Formation", "text": "Nauyat Formation\n\nThe Nauyat Formation is a Neoproterozoic-Mesoproterozoic geologic formation located on northwestern Baffin Island, Nunavut, Canada. It consists of a series of continental flood basalt lava flows of the Mackenzie Large Igneous Province with a thickness of at least . These volcanic rocks range in age from 762 to 1,221 million years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "9077514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9077514", "title": "Pillan", "text": "Pillan\n\nThe Pillan (of Mapudungun origin; singular \"pillán\" and plural \"pillanes\" in Spanish) is a powerful and respected male spirit in Mapuche mythology. \n\nAccording to legend, the Pillan are good spirits, but they can also cause disasters, since they also punish (or they allow the \"wekufe\" to punish) with drought or flood, earthquakes, or diseases. The \"Antü\" is the most powerful Pillan, who governs the others. In the Mapuche tradition, a man that follows the laws of the \"admapu\" can also become a Pillan after death. The Mapuche perform a \"ngillatun\" ceremony for the Pillan, for the latter to grant benefits to the people, and to thank them for their gifts.\n\nThe Pillan have been described as spirits that live in the \"Wenumapu\" (a spiritual world of good), and those that inhabit the earth generally live inside the volcanoes. (Example: Osorno and Quetrupillán Volcano). The accompanying female spirits of the Pillan are the Wangulen spirits. \n\nThe name Pillan was used by Chilean ENAER to name their 2-seat trainer aircraft, the T-35 Pillan.\n\n"}
{"id": "100074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100074", "title": "Protected areas of Victoria", "text": "Protected areas of Victoria\n\nVictoria is the smallest mainland state in Australia. it contained separate protected areas with a total land area of (17.26% of the state's area). Of these, 45 were national parks, totalling (11.32% of the state's area).\n\nThe parks are managed by Parks Victoria, a state government agency. There are also many smaller state areas which are subject to commercial activity such as logging.\n\nThe state of Victoria has protected approximately 5.3% of coastal waters. In June 2002, legislation was passed to establish 13 marine national parks and 11 marine sanctuaries. Victoria is the first jurisdiction in the world to create an entire system of highly protected marine national parks at the same time.\n\n\n\nAs of 2011 there are 45 national parks in Victoria.\n\n\nThere are 328 nature conservation reserves including:\n\nThere are natural feature reserves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2839526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839526", "title": "Qiufen", "text": "Qiufen\n\nThe traditional East Asian calendars divide a year into 24 solar terms. Qiūfēn, \"Shūbun\", \"Chubun\", or \"Thu phân\" is the 16th solar term. It begins when the Sun reaches the celestial longitude of 180° and ends when it reaches the longitude of 195°. It more often refers in particular to the day when the Sun is exactly at the celestial longitude of 180°. In the Gregorian calendar, it usually begins around September 23 and ends around October 8.\n\n"}
{"id": "46820367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46820367", "title": "Reflector (microsatellite)", "text": "Reflector (microsatellite)\n\nReflector (USA-163) is a space debris research microsatellite built in Russia by NII KP for the United States Air Force Research Lab at Kirtland AFB.\n\nThere has been some confusion about whether or not the USA-163 designation had actually ever been assigned, which appears to stem from the fact that more than one microsatellite may fly on a given launch vehicle. A single modern launch may indeed result in multiple maneuvering spacecraft reaching different final orbits.\n"}
{"id": "31948597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31948597", "title": "Ring ground", "text": "Ring ground\n\nA ring ground is a type of electrical ground that is used to protect buildings and equipment from damage due to electrical surges. Ring grounds are typically used as protection against lightning strikes. They are also known as ground rings, although this term may also be applied to grounding rings that are installed in metal pipe systems to protect electrical devices such as flow meters.\n\nA ring ground is typically constructed from a fairly large wire that is buried at least a few feet underground. The ring ground will usually encircle the entire building that it is trying to protect. The ring ground is used as the base of the entire building's ground system, and all components of the building's ground system, including the building structure, are connected to the ground ring. In the U.S., the National Electrical Code specifies that ring grounds must be constructed from #2 or thicker wire, must be buried at least 2 1/2 feet underground, and must have at least 20 feet of exposed copper to ensure good electrical contact with the earth. Ring grounds should be installed beyond the building's drip line to prevent corrosion of the ring's metal.\n\nRing grounds are very commonly used around communications equipment such as cell phone towers, police radio towers, and other types of radio towers and equipment buildings. They are also often used to protect computer data centers.\n\nA halo ground is a type of ring ground that, instead of being installed outside and underground, is installed inside, near the top of a building or structure. The ground reference for all equipment inside the area being protected is separate from the halo. The halo is connected to the main building ground, which may include an underground ring ground outside the building, with vertical conductors especially in the corners of the building. Electrical equipment is also often placed in fully enclosed metal cabinets, which function as Faraday cages to further protect the equipment. The halo may be connected to structural metallic elements such as door frames, building steel, window frames, and air conditioning vents.\n\nA typical halo ground is constructed of #2 insulated copper wire and is installed six inches below the ceiling, and entirely encircles the area that it is protecting.\n\nWhen an electrical conductor moves through a magnetic field, an electric current is induced into the conductor. The same thing also happens when the electrical conductor is stationary and the magnetic field is moving. This is known as electromagnetic induction, and is the underlying principle used in the construction of electrical generators.\n\nWhen lightning strikes a metal tower or strikes near a building containing electrical equipment, a large, rapidly changing magnetic field is generated. This magnetic field induces current onto power lines, often disrupting electrical service, and also induces current into other electrical conductors such as electrical equipment and even structural metal used in construction, such as rebar used to reinforce concrete. These induced currents can easily damage electronic equipment.\n\nHalo grounds and ring grounds are placed around the areas to be protected so that the magnetic field will encounter these conductors first. Energy from the magnetic field creates currents in the halo and ring ground, and this current is then safely shunted into the earth so that it does not harm equipment inside the protected building. Since most of the energy in the magnetic field is used up in the creation of these currents, very little energy is left over to create damaging currents inside the protected building.\n"}
{"id": "50645904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50645904", "title": "Simmersberg", "text": "Simmersberg\n\nThe Simmersberg is a mountain, , near Schnett in the municipality of Masserberg) in the county of Hildburghausen in Germany. It is the main summit of a forked mountain chain, which runs along the boundary between the Thuringian Forest and the Thuringian Highland from Masserberg towards the southwest and is bounded by the valleys of the Schleuse (in the northwest) and its tributary, the Biber (in the south).\n\nOther subpeaks of the ridge are the \"Hohe Warth (718 m)\" in the west, the \"Kohlberg (718 m)\" in the southwest, the \"Schnetter Berg (757 m)\" in the north and the \"Höheberg (780 m)\" in the northeast. The volcanic origins within the otherwise non-volcanic mountain ridge can be recognised especially well near the Simmersberg and its two 718 metre-high pre-summits.\n\nThe 740-metre-high \"Holzberg\", which is 2 km northeast and adjacent to the Schnetter Berg and north of the Höheberg, separated by a deep valley from the Simmersberg peaks, must be considered as an independent mountain.\n\nBecause the summit of the Simmersberg, on which there used to be an inn, but now has a youth hostel, is largely treeless, the mountain has an extensive view in all directions of the compasse without the need for climbing a tower.\nIn good visibility the outline of the Rhön in the west may be seen as well as the less high Haßberge hills to the south.\n\nStill clearly outside the Thuringian Forest, but somewhat closer is the Dolmar near Meiningen (740 m) over 30 km away to the west, and the Gleichberge (642 and 679 m) to the southwest, 25 km distant – all three are clearly of volcanic origin.\nTo the left and east of them are the ruins of Straufhain Castle (449 m) and Coburg Fortress (464 m).\n\nNorth (right) of the Dolmar in clear weather can be seen the Pleß (645 m), 52 km away to the northwest and, in the extreme northeast the Anterior Rhön can be made out.\nImmediately right of that and about 14 to 20 km distant – and visible in even moderately good conditions – are the highest points of the Thuringian Forest:\n\nIn the east lies the nearby Rennsteigwarte watchtower on the Eselsberg (841.5 m) near Masserberg, to the southeast just 3 km away, but separated by the deep valley of the Biber, is the mining village of Waffenrod/Hinterrod with the mountains of Klingeberg (677.2 m), Eckartsberg (760.4 m) and Grendel (787.2 m).\n\n"}
{"id": "1350243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1350243", "title": "Sneaker wave", "text": "Sneaker wave\n\nA sneaker wave, sleeper wave, or in Australia a king wave is a disproportionately large coastal wave that can sometimes appear in a wave train without warning. The terminology is popular rather than scientific: there is no scientific coverage (or evidence) of the phenomenon as a distinct sort of wave with respect to height or predictability—as there is on other extreme wave events such as rogue waves. One American oceanographer distinguishes \"rogue waves\" as occurring on the ocean and sneaker waves as occurring at the shore.\n\nBecause they are much larger than preceding waves, sneaker waves can catch unwary swimmers, washing them out to sea. It is not uncommon for people walking or standing on beaches and ocean jetties to also be washed into the sea. Sneaker waves are mainly referred to in warnings and reports of incidents for the coasts of Northern California, Oregon and Washington in the United States. These sneaker waves also occur on the west coast of Canada, they are commonly seen in Tofino and Ucluelet. Sneaker waves are common on the southern coast of Iceland, and warning signs have been erected at Reynisfjara and Kirkufjara beaches, following three unrelated tourist deaths in recent years. King waves occur especially in Western Australia and Tasmania.\n\nIn many parts of the world, local folklore predicts that out of a certain number of waves, one will be much larger than the rest. \"Every seventh wave\" or \"every ninth wave\" are examples of such common beliefs that have wide circulation and have entered popular culture through music, literature and art. These ideas have some scientific merit, due to the occurrence of wave groups at sea, but there is no explicit evidence for this specific phenomenon, or that these wave groups are related to sneaker waves. The saying is likely derived more from a cultural fascination with certain numbers, and it may also be designed to educate shore-dwellers about the necessity of remaining vigilant when near the ocean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14768720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14768720", "title": "Snow day (meteorology)", "text": "Snow day (meteorology)\n\nIn meteorology, a snow day is a day on which fall of snow is observed. A meteorological day is considered on a different basis from country to country. Most frequently, it refers to the 08.00-08.00 time span (summer time: 09.00-09.00). \n\n"}
{"id": "4040082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4040082", "title": "Tall Timbers Research Station and Land Conservancy", "text": "Tall Timbers Research Station and Land Conservancy\n\nTall Timbers Research Station and Land Conservancy is a research and learning facility located in northern Leon County, Florida, just off County Road 12 on the north side of Lake Iamonia. Occupying the same acreage and location and operating from the old Beadel House, Tall Timbers researches the areas of fire ecology, resource management, forestry, game bird management, and vertebrate ecology.\n\nThe Research Station was formerly a quail hunting plantation of Tall Timbers Plantation built in 1895 by Edward Beadel.\n\nThe Fire Ecology Program is designed to provide the public with applicable, science-based information on prescribed fire and vegetation dynamics in the southern pine ecosystem, specifically in the Red Hills Region.\n\nThe Resource Management Program's responsibility is to manage the land so that the upland forests are maintained in an open, park-like condition using prescribed fire, mechanical tools, and chemical techniques to accomplish land management goals.\n\nThe Forestry Program is designed to meet the ecological forestry research needs of the Red Hills Region between Tallahassee, Florida and Thomasville, Georgia.\n\nThe Game Bird Program is studying the northern bobwhite quail (\"Colinus virginianus\") and its habitats.\n\nThe Vertebrate Ecology Lab is studying Bachman's sparrows, brown-headed nuthatches, and red-cockaded woodpeckers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1566231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1566231", "title": "Tar", "text": "Tar\n\nTar is a dark brown or black viscous liquid of hydrocarbons and free carbon, obtained from a wide variety of organic materials through destructive distillation. Tar can be produced from coal, wood, petroleum, or peat.\nProduction and trade in pine-derived tar was a major contributor in the economies of Northern Europe and Colonial America. Its main use was in preserving wooden sailing vessels against rot. The largest user was the Royal Navy. Demand for tar declined with the advent of iron and steel ships.\n\nTar-like products can also be produced from other forms of organic matter, such as peat. Mineral products resembling tar can be produced from fossil hydrocarbons, such as petroleum. Coal tar is produced from coal as a byproduct of coke production.\n\n\"Tar\" and \"pitch\" can be used interchangeably; asphalt (naturally occurring pitch) may also be called either \"mineral tar\" or \"mineral pitch\".\nThere is a tendency to use \"tar\" for more liquid substances and \"pitch\" for more solid (viscoelastic) substances.\nBoth \"tar\" and \"pitch\" are applied to viscous forms of petroleum or heavy crude oil, technically better described as asphalt or bitumen, such as the asphalt found in naturally occurring \"tar pits\" (e.g., the La Brea Tar Pits in Los Angeles) and oil sands deposits (sometimes called \"tar sands\") (e.g., the Tar Tunnel in Shropshire). \n\"Rangoon tar\", also known as \"Burmese Oil\" or \"Burmese Naphtha\", is also a form of petroleum.\n\nIn Northern Europe, the word \"tar\" refers primarily to a substance that is derived from the wood and roots of pine. In earlier times it was often used as a water repellent coating for boats, ships, and roofs. It is still used as an additive in the flavoring of candy, alcohol, and other foods. Wood tar is microbicidal. Producing tar from wood was known in ancient Greece and has probably been used in Scandinavia since the Iron Age. For centuries, dating back at least to the 14th century, tar was among Sweden's most important exports. Sweden exported 13,000 barrels of tar in 1615 and 227,000 barrels in the peak year of 1863. Production nearly stopped in the early 20th century, when other chemicals replaced tar, and wooden ships were replaced by steel ships. Traditional wooden boats are still sometimes tarred.\n\nThe heating (dry distilling) of pine wood causes tar and pitch to drip away from the wood and leave behind charcoal. Birch bark is used to make particularly fine tar, known as \"Russian oil\", suitable for leather protection. The by-products of wood tar are turpentine and charcoal. When deciduous tree woods are subjected to destructive distillation, the products are methanol (wood alcohol) and charcoal.\n\nTar kilns (, , , ) are dry distillation ovens, historically used in Scandinavia for producing tar from wood. They were built close to the forest, from limestone or from more primitive holes in the ground. The bottom is sloped into an outlet hole to allow the tar to pour out. The wood is split into dimensions of a finger, stacked densely, and finally covered tight with dirt and moss. If oxygen can enter, the wood might catch fire, and the production would be ruined. On top of this, a fire is stacked and lit. After a few hours, the tar starts to pour out and continues to do so for a few days.\n\nTar was used as seal for roofing shingles and tar paper and to seal the hulls of ships and boats. For millennia, wood tar was used to waterproof sails and boats, but today, sails made from inherently waterproof synthetic substances have reduced the demand for tar. Wood tar is still used to seal traditional wooden boats and the roofs of historical shingle-roofed churches, as well as painting exterior walls of log buildings. Tar is also a general disinfectant. Pine tar oil, or wood tar oil, is used for the surface treatment of wooden shingle roofs, boats, buckets, and tubs and in the medicine, soap, and rubber industries. Pine tar has good penetration on the rough wood. An old wood tar oil recipe for the treatment of wood is one-third each genuine wood tar, balsam turpentine, and boiled or raw linseed oil or Chinese tung oil.\n\nIn Finland, wood tar was once considered a panacea reputed to heal \"even those cut in twain through their midriff\". A Finnish proverb states that \"if sauna, vodka and tar won't help, the disease is fatal.\" Wood tar is used in traditional Finnish medicine because of its microbicidal properties.\n\nWood tar is also available diluted as tar water, which has numerous uses:\n\nMixing tar with linseed oil varnish produces tar paint. Tar paint has a translucent brownish hue and can be used to saturate and tone wood and protect it from weather. Tar paint can also be toned with various pigments, producing translucent colors and preserving the wood texture.\n\nIn English, German, and French, \"tar\" is a substance primarily derived from coal. It was formerly one of the products of gasworks. Tar made from coal or petroleum is considered toxic and carcinogenic because of its high benzene content, though coal tar in low concentrations is used as a topical medicine. Coal and petroleum tar has a pungent odour.\n\nCoal tar is listed at number 1999 in the United Nations list of dangerous goods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19252792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19252792", "title": "Thalassophobia", "text": "Thalassophobia\n\nThalassophobia (, \"thalassa\", \"sea\" and , \"phobos\", \"fear\") is an intense and persistent fear of the sea or of sea travel.\n\nThalassophobia can include fear of being in large bodies of water, fear of the vast emptiness of the sea, of sea waves, and fear of distance from land.\n\n"}
{"id": "99469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99469", "title": "The Ants", "text": "The Ants\n\nThe Ants is a zoology textbook by the German entomologist Bert Hölldobler and the American entomologist E. O. Wilson, first published in 1990. It won the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction in 1991.\n\nThis book is primarily aimed at academics as a reference work, detailing the ants' anatomy, physiology, social organization including their caste system, altruistic behaviour, and chemical communication with pheromones, their ecology (vital for turning the soil and controlling insect pests), and natural history.\n\nAn account of some of Hölldobler and Wilson's most interesting findings, popularized for the layman, can be found in their 1994 book \"Journey to the Ants\".\n\nThe \"Science\" magazine reviewer described the book as a \"mighty tome\" and commented that it would \"surely take its place among the greatest of all entomology books\", as it was \"a wonderful exploration of almost every ramification of evolutionary biology, from developmental biology to the structure of ecological communities\". The illustrations are praised as lavish and extremely detailed, with monochrome drawings and 24 colour plates. All the 297 extant genera are illustrated and identifiable with the supplied keys. But \"\"The Ants\", like every great book and every ant colony, is much more than the sum of its parts.\"\n\nDiana Wheeler, reviewing the book in \"The Quarterly Review of Biology\", comments that William Morton Wheeler thought his book not practical to revise as it would require too much work and would make the book too expensive, and that it was fortunate that the authors \"did not flinch\" at the challenge. They had produced a massive but affordable volume, and it was accessible to the public as well as to entomologists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7980663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7980663", "title": "Timeline of Banksia", "text": "Timeline of Banksia\n\nThis is a timeline of developments in knowledge and understanding of the Australian plant genus Banksia:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "701188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=701188", "title": "Vacuum state", "text": "Vacuum state\n\nIn quantum field theory, the quantum vacuum state (also called the quantum vacuum or vacuum state) is the quantum state with the lowest possible energy. Generally, it contains no physical particles. Zero-point field is sometimes used as a synonym for the vacuum state of an individual quantized field.\n\nAccording to present-day understanding of what is called the vacuum state or the quantum vacuum, it is \"by no means a simple empty space\". According to quantum mechanics, the vacuum state is not truly empty but instead contains fleeting electromagnetic waves and particles that pop into and out of existence.\n\nThe QED vacuum of quantum electrodynamics (or QED) was the first vacuum of quantum field theory to be developed. QED originated in the 1930s, and in the late 1940s and early 1950s it was reformulated by Feynman, Tomonaga and Schwinger, who jointly received the Nobel prize for this work in 1965. Today the electromagnetic interactions and the weak interactions are unified in the theory of the electroweak interaction.\n\nThe Standard Model is a generalization of the QED work to include all the known elementary particles and their interactions (except gravity). Quantum chromodynamics is the portion of the Standard Model that deals with strong interactions, and QCD vacuum is the vacuum of quantum chromodynamics. It is the object of study in the Large Hadron Collider and the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider, and is related to the so-called \"vacuum structure of strong interactions\".\n\nIf the quantum field theory can be accurately described through perturbation theory, then the properties of the vacuum are analogous to the properties of the ground state of a quantum mechanical harmonic oscillator, or more accurately, the ground state of a measurement problem. In this case the vacuum expectation value (VEV) of any field operator vanishes. For quantum field theories in which perturbation theory breaks down at low energies (for example, Quantum chromodynamics or the BCS theory of superconductivity) field operators may have non-vanishing vacuum expectation values called condensates. In the Standard Model, the non-zero vacuum expectation value of the Higgs field, arising from spontaneous symmetry breaking, is the mechanism by which the other fields in the theory acquire mass.\n\nIn many situations, the vacuum state can be defined to have zero energy, although the actual situation is considerably more subtle. The vacuum state is associated with a zero-point energy, and this zero-point energy has measurable effects. In the laboratory, it may be detected as the Casimir effect. In physical cosmology, the energy of the cosmological vacuum appears as the cosmological constant. In fact, the energy of a cubic centimeter of empty space has been calculated figuratively to be one trillionth of an erg (or 0.6 eV). An outstanding requirement imposed on a potential Theory of Everything is that the energy of the quantum vacuum state must explain the physically observed cosmological constant.\n\nFor a relativistic field theory, the vacuum is Poincaré invariant, which follows from\nWightman axioms but can be also proved directly without these axioms. Poincaré invariance implies that only scalar combinations of field operators have non-vanishing VEV's. The VEV may break some of the internal symmetries of the Lagrangian of the field theory. In this case the vacuum has less symmetry than the theory allows, and one says that \"spontaneous symmetry breaking\" has occurred. See Higgs mechanism, standard model.\n\nIn principle, quantum corrections to Maxwell's equations can cause the experimental electrical permittivity ε of the vacuum state to deviate from the defined scalar value ε of the electric constant. These theoretical developments are described, for example, in Dittrich and Gies.\nIn particular, the theory of quantum electrodynamics predicts that the QED vacuum should exhibit nonlinear effects that will make it behave like a birefringent material with ε slightly greater than ε for extremely strong electric fields. Explanations for dichroism from particle physics, outside quantum electrodynamics, also have been proposed. Active attempts to measure such effects have yielded negative results so far.\n\nThe presence of virtual particles can be rigorously based upon the non-commutation of the quantized electromagnetic fields. Non-commutation means that although the average values of the fields vanish in a quantum vacuum, their variances do not. The term \"vacuum fluctuations\" refers to the variance of the field strength in the minimal energy state, and is described picturesquely as evidence of \"virtual particles\". It is sometimes attempted to provide an intuitive picture of virtual particles, or variances, based upon the Heisenberg energy-time uncertainty principle:\n(with \"ΔE\" and \"Δt\" being the energy and time variations respectively; \"ΔE\" is the accuracy in the measurement of energy and \"Δt\" is the time taken in the measurement, and is the Reduced Planck constant) arguing along the lines that the short lifetime of virtual particles allows the \"borrowing\" of large energies from the vacuum and thus permits particle generation for short times. Although the phenomenon of virtual particles is accepted, this interpretation of the energy-time uncertainty relation is not universal. One issue is the use of an uncertainty relation limiting measurement accuracy as though a time uncertainty \"Δt\" determines a \"budget\" for borrowing energy \"ΔE\". Another issue is the meaning of \"time\" in this relation, because energy and time (unlike position and momentum , for example) do not satisfy a canonical commutation relation (such as ). Various schemes have been advanced to construct an observable that has some kind of time interpretation, and yet does satisfy a canonical commutation relation with energy. The very many approaches to the energy-time uncertainty principle are a long and continuing subject.\n\nAccording to Astrid Lambrecht (2002): \"When one empties out a space of all matter and lowers the temperature to absolute zero, one produces in a \"Gedankenexperiment\" [mental experiment] the quantum vacuum state.\" According to Fowler & Guggenheim (1939/1965), the third law of thermodynamics may be precisely enunciated as follows:\n\"It is impossible by any procedure, no matter how idealized, to reduce any assembly to the absolute zero in a finite number of operations.\" (See also.)\n\nPhoton-photon interaction can occur only through interaction with the vacuum state of some other field, for example through the Dirac electron-positron vacuum field; this is associated with the concept of vacuum polarization. According to Milonni (1994): \"... \"all quantum fields have zero-point energies and vacuum fluctuations.\"\" This means that there is a component of the quantum vacuum respectively for each component field (considered in the conceptual absence of the other fields), such as the electromagnetic field, the Dirac electron-positron field, and so on. According to Milonni (1994), some of the effects attributed to the vacuum electromagnetic field can have several physical interpretations, some more conventional than others. The Casimir attraction between uncharged conductive plates is often proposed as an example of an effect of the vacuum electromagnetic field. Schwinger, DeRaad, and Milton (1978) are cited by Milonni (1994) as validly, though unconventionally, explaining the Casimir effect with a model in which \"the vacuum is regarded as truly a state with all physical properties equal to zero.\" In this model, the observed phenomena are explained as the effects of the electron motions on the electromagnetic field, called the source field effect. Milonni writes: \n\nThe basic idea here will be that the Casimir force may be derived from the source fields alone even in completely conventional QED, ... Milonni provides detailed argument that the measurable physical effects usually attributed to the vacuum electromagnetic field cannot be explained by that field alone, but require in addition a contribution from the self-energy of the electrons, or their radiation reaction. He writes: \"The radiation reaction and the vacuum fields are two aspects of the same thing when it comes to physical interpretations of various QED processes including the Lamb shift, van der Waals forces, and Casimir effects. \n\nThis point of view is also stated by Jaffe (2005): \"The Casimir force can be calculated without reference to vacuum fluctuations, and like all other observable effects in QED, it vanishes as the fine structure constant, , goes to zero.\"\n\nThe vacuum state is written as formula_2 or formula_3. The vacuum expectation value (see also Expectation value) of any field formula_4 should be written as formula_5.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20701422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20701422", "title": "Wiser.org", "text": "Wiser.org\n\nWiser.org, formerly WiserEarth.org, was a user-generated online community space for the social and environmental movement. As one of the social networks for environmental sustainability and social change, Wiser.org was the primary initiative of the non-profit organization WiserEarth, which tracks the work of non-profits around the world. The site mapped and connected non-governmental organizations (NGOs), businesses, governments, groups, and individuals addressing global issues such as climate change, poverty, the environment, peace, water, hunger, social justice, conservation, human rights, and more.\n\nOn 6 January 2014, Wiser.org's Executive Director, Peggy Duvette wrote an open letter to all members (which she updated on 24 January 2014) explaining the need for changes and the possibility of archiving the Wiser.org website to the Wayback Machine; and on 17 March 2014 she officially announced that the closure and archiving of the Wiser.org website would occur on 10 April 2014.\n\nWiser.org was launched as WiserEarth.org on Earth Day (April 22) 2007 as an online directory of the 100,000+ organizations touched upon in Paul Hawken's book, Blessed Unrest. Hawken had amassed a collection of business cards from thousands of organizations over the years, but had not found a comprehensive directory listing all non-profit organizations involved in the social justice and environmental sector. Estimating the total number of non-profit organizations around the world to be well over a million, Hawken launched Wiser.org, which stands for the World Index for Social and Environmental Responsibility, as an online directory to help map out the work done by these organizations. Today, Wiser.org incorporates additional social networking features, such as status updates, likes, walls, groups, and email messaging to provide greater possibilities for collaboration. Wiser.org has expanded its organization directory to include listings of for-profit businesses and government agencies.\n\nOn 17 March 2014, it was announced on the Wiser.org website that it would be archived and shutdown on 10 April 2014.\n\nAs of September 15, 2012, Wiser.org provided a directory of more than 114,000 organizations worldwide, over 71,900 registered members, and more than 2,800 groups. It featured resources and information on various social issues ranging from women's rights to climate change. These resources and information are organized into 47 distinct issue areas and 381 sub-issue areas. Wiser.org was available in English, Chinese (simplified), French, German, Indonesian, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish.\n\nThe Wiser.org Directory was organized around a master list of issues which are \"networked\" in such a way that registered users could edit the \"connections\" of each issue to organizations, resources, jobs, events, and groups. The website featured groupware and social networking components including graphical \"Network Maps\". A unique \"Solution form\" allowed any logged in user to state a serious social or environmental problem and propose a way to solve it. The Solution then becomes a named entity that can be shared, modified, and acted upon as the proposed solution is implemented in the real world. The solution form included a place to record results and observations. Each Solution was provided with a publishing and networking page and a discussion forum. Wiser.org also incorporates embedded Google Maps integrated with the geographical data. The website was a non-profit venture and was free to the public. The data is published under a Creative Commons 3.0 license.\n\nAs of June 2009, Wiser.org offered a RESTful API developed under a Creative Commons 3.0 license. The Wiser.org API provides access to an extensive database of \"entities\" such as Organizations, Groups, Jobs, Events, Resources, and Solutions. There is an associated FAQ and a Developer's Documentation page.\n\nOn 6 January 2014, Executive Director Peggy Duvette published an open letter on the website beginning \"Dear Wiser.org Member,\" in which she wrote:\n\nThe letter was subsequently updated on 24 January 2014 to include a \"More information about these changes...\" section, which disclosed that the need for the changes is largely due to the ongoing cost of maintaining the organization's website, and upgrading it as will be needed.\n\nOn 17 March 2014, Duvette published another open letter to \"Wiser.org friends, members and supporters,\" in which she wrote: \"After many months of reflection and extensive feedback from Wiser.org members, editors and our board of directors, we have decided to close and archive the Wiser.org website. The archiving of the site will take place on April 10th 2014.\" She continued:\n\nShe concluded with: \"We trust that the members of the Wiser.org community will continue to create lasting impact across the many global and local networks that we are part of and through the wonderful organizations and communities we work with.\" Further information about what will happen to individual and group listings was provided.\n\nThe Wiser.org website now contains the words \"WiserEarth 2005-2014,\" as if on a tombstone, in the upper-left corner of the dark brown footer area of each of its website's pages; along with the words \"Wiser.org is closing,\" followed by a \"read more\" link to the details, just beneath the header of its website's front page.\n\n"}
