{"id": "38384207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38384207", "title": "African immigrants to Lithuania", "text": "African immigrants to Lithuania\n\nAfrican immigrants to Lithuania () form a tiny minority of Lithuania's population. According to estimates by the migration department of Lithuania, there are 238 men and 26 women from Africa living in the country, 91 of whom are from Nigeria.\n\nHistorically, Lithuania had few non-European residents, with only a small minority of Asians (predominantly Tatars) known to inhabit the territory prior to independence.\n\nOne of the most well-known Lithuanians with ancestors from African nations is the singer Viktoras Diawara, whose father is from Mali.\n\n"}
{"id": "37048482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37048482", "title": "Anu-Hkongso language", "text": "Anu-Hkongso language\n\nAnu-Hkongso is a Sino-Tibetan language spoken between the Kaladan and Michaung rivers in Paletwa Township, Chin State, Burma. It is closely related to Mru, forming the Mruic language branch, whose position with Sino-Tibetan is unclear. It consists of two dialects, Anu (\"Añú\") and Hkongso (Khongso, Khaungtso).\n\nAnu and Hkongso speakers self-identify as ethnic Chin people, although the Anu-Hkongso language does not classify as a Kuki-Chin language. Most Anu and Hkongso speakers can also speak Khumi.\n\nHkongso and Anu are closely related languages. The \"Kasang\" claim to be Hkongso, and live in a small area just to the south of the main Hkongso area, in the villages of Lamoitong and Tuirong. The \"Anu\" live in scattered areas to the west of the main Hkongso area. Anu villages include Bedinwa, Onphuwa, Payung Chaung, Yeelawa, Daletsa Wa, Ohrangwa, Tuikin Along, and Khayu Chaung (Wright 2009:6).\n\nThe Anu people consider themselves to consist of 4 subgroups, namely \"Hkum\", \"Hkong\" (Hkongso), \"Som\", and \"Kla\". However, the Hkongso maintain that they are an ethnic group equal to the Anu, but are not a subgroup of the Anu.\n\nThe Kasang (also known as Khenlak, Ta-aw, Hkongsa-Asang, Hkongso-Asang, Asang, and Sangta) consider themselves as ethnic Hkongso, but their language is intelligible with Khumi rather than Anu. Kasang villages include Lamoitong and Tuirong.\n\nThe Mru language is also closely related to Anu and Hkongso. The Mru had migrated to the Chittagong Hills from the Arakan Hills.\n\nHkongso is spoken in the following villages of Paletwa Township.\n\nHkongso subgroups (clans) are Kamu, Ngan, Gwa, Hteih, Hteikloeh, Ngai, Rahnam, Kapu, Kasah, Namte, Krawktu, and Namluek.\n\nLeimi, Asang, and Likkheng are other languages spoken in the Paletwa Township area.\n\nHkongso has minor syllables (also known sesquisyllables), which are typical of Mon-Khmer languages (Wright 2009:12-14).\n\nUnlike the Kuki-Chin languages, Hkongso (kʰɔŋ˥˩sʰo˦˨) has no verb stem alternation and has SVO word order (Wright 2009). Also, unlike Mru and the Kuki-Chin languages, Hkongso has Neg-V word order (pre-verbal negation) instead of the V-Neg order (post-verbal negation) found in surrounding languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "13003460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13003460", "title": "Basque–Icelandic pidgin", "text": "Basque–Icelandic pidgin\n\nThe Basque–Icelandic pidgin was a pidgin spoken in Iceland in the 17th century. It is preserved in Icelandic manuscripts from the same and the following century. The pidgin consisted of Basque, Germanic and Romance words. It might have developed in Westfjords, where the manuscripts were written, but since it had influences from many other European languages, it is more likely that it was created elsewhere and brought to Iceland by Basque sailors.\n\nIn the manuscript AM 987 4to, kept at the Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies in Reykjavík, there are two Basque–Icelandic glossaries called \"Vocabula Gallica\" ('French words') and \"Vocabula Biscaica\" ('Biscayan words'). Towards the end of \"Vocabula Biscaica\", which contains a total of 278 words and short sentences, there are a few phrases where the Basque entries are mixed with words from Dutch, English, French, German and Spanish. The Basque–Icelandic pidgin is thereby not a mixture between Basque and Icelandic, but between Basque and other languages. It was named from the fact that it was written down in Iceland and translated into Icelandic.\n\nThe word numbers are the same as in AM 987 4to. The manuscript's Basque and Icelandic phrases are from Deen (1937:102-105). The modern Basque entries are from and . The English translations are based on the Icelandic text, which differs in some places from the Basque equivalents in the glossaries. For example, \"sagarduna\" 'cider' is not synonymous with \"Syrdryck\" 'sour drink'.\n\n\n\n\nThere are also many other French and Spanish words in the rest of \"Vocabula Biscaica\" and the other Basque-Icelandic glossaries. For example, Basque \"eliza\" 'church' in the beginning of the glossary is related to French \"église\" and Spanish \"iglesia\". However, this is no sign of the pidgin language, but rather a result of French and Spanish influence on the Basque language throughout the ages, since Basque has taken many loan words from its neighbouring languages. Furthermore, many of the people in the Basque crews that came to Iceland might have been multilingual, speaking French and/or Spanish as well. That would explain for example why the Icelandic \"ja\" 'yes' is translated with both Basque \"bai\" and French \"vÿ\" (modern spelling \"oui\") at the end of \"Vocabula Biscaica\".\n\nThe copy of \"Vocabula Biscaica\" which is preserved was written by Jón Ólafsson from Grunnavík, who copied an older but now lost original. This copy was found, together with \"Vocabula Gallica\", in the mid-1920s by the Icelandic philologist Jón Helgason in the Arnamagnæan Collection at the University of Copenhagen. He copied the glossaries, translated the Icelandic words into German and sent the copies to professor Christianus Cornelius Uhlenbeck at Leiden University in the Netherlands. Uhlenbeck had expertise in Basque, but since he retired from the university in 1926, he gave the glossaries to his post-graduate student Nicolaas Gerard Hendrik Deen. Deen consulted with the Basque scholar Julio de Urquijo, and in 1937, he published his doctoral thesis on the Basque-Icelandic glossaries. It was called \"Glossaria duo vasco-islandica\" and written in Latin, though most of the phrases of the glossaries were also translated into German and Spanish. In 1986 the original manuscript was brought back from Denmark to Iceland.\n\nThere is also evidence of a third contemporary Basque-Icelandic glossary. In a letter, the Icelandic linguist Sveinbjörn Egilsson mentioned a document with two pages containing \"funny words and glosses\" and he copied eleven examples of them. The glossary itself has been lost, but the letter is still preserved at the National Library of Iceland. However, there is no pidgin element in this glossary\n\nA fourth Basque-Icelandic glossary was found at the Houghton Library at Harvard University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "869203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=869203", "title": "Bikya language", "text": "Bikya language\n\nBikya (also known as Furu) is a potentially extinct Southern Bantoid language spoken in Cameroon. It is one of the three, or four, Furu languages. In 1986 four surviving speakers were identified, although only one (a man in his seventies) spoke the language fluently.\n\nBikya is probably best known for the work of English linguist Dr. David Dalby who filmed an 87-year-old African woman who spoke Bikya as her native tongue. It was thought that she was the last speaker, but Kiessling (2007) reports that Bikya has the largest number of remaining speakers of the Furu languages.\n\nIt, and presumably all of Furu, is perhaps a Beboid language (Blench 2011).\n\n"}
{"id": "28972847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28972847", "title": "China Multi-Generational Panel Dataset – Liaoning", "text": "China Multi-Generational Panel Dataset – Liaoning\n\nThe China Multi-Generational Panel Dataset - Liaoning (CMGPD-LN) is drawn from the population registers compiled by the Imperial Household Agency (neiwufu) in Shengjing, currently the northeast Chinese province of Liaoning, between 1749 and 1909. It provides 1.5 million triennial observations of more than 260,000 residents from 698 communities. The population mainly consists of immigrants from North China who settled in rural Liaoning during the early eighteenth century, and their descendants. The data provide socioeconomic, demographic, and other characteristics for individuals, households, and communities, and record demographic outcomes such as marriage, fertility, and mortality. The data also record specific disabilities for a subset of adult males. This dataset is unique among publicly available population databases because of its time span, volume, detail, and completeness of recording, and because it provides longitudinal data not just on individuals, but on their households, descent groups, and communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "39376875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39376875", "title": "Climate fiction", "text": "Climate fiction\n\nClimate fiction, popularly abbreviated as cli-fi (modelled after the assonance of \"sci-fi\"), is literature that deals with climate change and global warming. Not necessarily speculative in nature, works of cli-fi may take place in the world as we know it or in the near future. University courses on literature and environmental issues may include climate change fiction in their syllabi. This body of literature has been discussed by a variety of publications, including \"The New York Times, The Guardian,\" and \"Dissent\" magazine, among other international media outlets.\n\nThe term \"cli-fi\" came into use in the late 2000s to describe novels and movies that deal with man-made climate change, and historically, there have been any number of literary works that dealt with climate change in earlier times as well.\n\nJules Verne's 1889 novel \"The Purchase of the North Pole\" imagines climate change due to tilting of Earth's axis. In his posthumous \"Paris in the Twentieth Century\", written in 1883 and set during the 1960s, the titular city experiences a sudden drop in temperature, which lasts for three years. Several well-known dystopian works by British author J. G. Ballard deal with climate-related natural disasters: In \"The Wind from Nowhere\" (1961), civilization is reduced by persistent hurricane-force winds, and \"The Drowned World\" (1962) describes a future of melted ice-caps and rising sea-levels caused by solar radiation. In \"The Burning World\" (1964, later called \"The Drought\") his climate catastrophe is human-made, a drought due to disruption of the precipitation cycle by industrial pollution.\n\nAs scientific knowledge of the effects of fossil fuel consumption and resulting increase in atmospheric CO2 concentrations entered the public and political arena as \"global warming\", fiction about the problems of human-induced global warming began to appear. Susan M. Gaines's \"Carbon Dreams\" was an early example of a literary novel that \"tells a story about the devastatingly serious issue of human-induced climate change,\" set in the 1980s and published before the term \"cli-fi\" was coined Michael Crichton's \"State of Fear\" (2004), a techno-thriller portrays climate change as \"a vast pseudo-scientific hoax\" and is critical of scientific opinion on climate change.\n\nMargaret Atwood explored the subject in her dystopian trilogy \"Oryx and Crake\" (2003), \"The Year of the Flood\" (2009) and \"MaddAddam\" (2013). In \"Oryx and Crake\" Attwood presents a world where \"social inequality, genetic technology and catastrophic climate change, has finally culminated in some apocalyptic event\". The novel's protagonist, Jimmy, lives in a \"world split between corporate compounds\", gated communities that have grown into city-states and pleeblands, which are \"unsafe, populous and polluted\" urban areas where the working classes live.\n\nThe popular science-fiction novelist Kim Stanley Robinson focused on the theme in his \"Science in the Capital\" trilogy, which is set in the near future and includes \"Forty Signs of Rain\" (2004), \"Fifty Degrees Below\" (2005), and \"Sixty Days and Counting\" (2007). Robert K. J. Killheffer in his review for Fantasy & Science Fiction said \"\"Forty Signs of Rain\" is a fascinating depiction of the workings of science and politics, and an urgent call to readers to confront the threat of climate change.\" Robinson's latest climate-themed novel, titled \"New York 2140,\" was published in March 2017. It gives a complex portrait of a coastal city that is partly underwater and yet has successfully adapted to climate change in its culture and ecology. \n\nThe novels \"Not A Drop To Drink\" (2013) and its sequel, \"In A Handful Of Dust\" (2014), by Mindy McGinnis feature a small group of survivors living in the aftermath of an extreme shortage of fresh water following a severe, prolonged drought on a national scale. \n\nIan McEwan's \"Solar\" (2010) follows the story of a physicist who discovers a way to fight climate change after managing to derive power from artificial photosynthesis. \"The Stone Gods\" (2007) by Jeanette Winterson is set on the fictional planet Orbus, a world very like Earth, running out of resources and suffering from the severe effects of climate change. Inhabitants of Orbus hope to take advantage of possibilities offered by a newly discovered planet, Planet Blue, which appears perfect for human life.\n\nBarbara Kingsolver's novel, \"Flight Behavior\" (2012), employs environmental themes and highlights the potential effects of global warming on the monarch butterfly.\n\nJL Morin's \"Nature's Confession\" (2015) portrays two teens in a fight to save a warming planet, the universe, and their love, as they try to stop humans from exporting their polluting culture to other habitable planets.\n\n\"Devolution of a Species\" by M.E. Ellington focuses on the Gaia hypothesis, and describes the Earth as a single living organism fighting back against humankind. \n\nOther authors who have used this subject matter include Liz Jensen, Tony White, and Sarah Holding.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "151664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151664", "title": "Communities, regions and language areas of Belgium", "text": "Communities, regions and language areas of Belgium\n\nBelgium is a federal state comprising three communities, three regions, and four language areas. For each of these subdivision types, the subdivisions together make up the entire country; in other words, the types overlap.\n\nThe language areas were established by the Second Gilson Act, which entered into force on August 2, 1963. The division into language areas was included in the Belgian Constitution in 1970. Through constitutional reforms in the 1970s and 1980s, regionalisation of the unitary state led to a three-tiered federation: federal, regional, and community governments were created, a compromise designed to minimize linguistic, cultural, social, and economic tensions.\n\nThis is a schematic overview of the basic federal structure of Belgium as defined by Title I of the Belgian Constitution.\n\nEach of the entities either have their own parliament and government (for the federal state, the communities and the regions) or their own council and executive college (for provinces and municipalities). The entities in \"italics\" do not have their own institutions — arrondissements because they are purely administrative; language areas because they merely define the linguistic regime of a municipality; and the Flemish Region because its powers are exercised by the Flemish Community.\n\nThe three communities are:\n\nThe three regions are:\n\nThe four language areas (as in Dutch and in German), occasionally referred to as linguistic regions (from French ), are:\n\nAll these entities have geographical boundaries. The language areas have no offices or powers and exist de facto as geographical circumscriptions, serving only to delineate the empowered subdivisions. The institutional communities are thus equally geographically determined. Belgian Communities do not officially refer directly to groups of people but rather to specific political, linguistic and cultural competencies of the country.\n\nAll Communities thus have a precise and legally established area where they can exercise their competencies: the Flemish Community has legal authority (for its Community competencies) only within the Dutch language area (which coincides with the Flemish Region) and bilingual Brussels-Capital language area (which coincides with the Region by that name); the French-speaking Community analogously has powers only within the French language area of the Walloon Region and in the Brussels-Capital Region, and the German Community in the German language area, which is a small part of the province of Liège in the Walloon region, and borders Germany.\n\nThe constitutional language areas determine the official languages in their municipalities, as well as the geographical limits of the institutions empowered for specific matters:\n\nAlthough this would allow for seven parliaments and governments, when the Communities and Regions were created in 1980, Flemish politicians decided to officially merge the Flemish Region into the Flemish Community, with one parliament, one government and one administration, exercising both regional and community competencies, although Flemish parliamentarians from the Brussels-Capital Region cannot vote on competencies of the Flemish Region; thus in the Dutch language area a single institutional body of parliament and government is empowered for all except federal and specific municipal matters. While the Walloon Region and the French Community have separate parliaments and governments, the Parliament of the French Community draws its members from the French-speaking members of the Walloon Parliament and the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region, and ministers of the Walloon Government often serve as ministers in the Government of the French Community as well.\n\nThe Flemish Region and the Walloon Region each comprise five provinces. The Brussels-Capital Region is not a province, nor does it contain any. The three regions are further subdivided into 589 municipalities, which in general consist of several sub-municipalities. These sub-municipalities were independent municipalities in the past, but no longer serve an official purpose.\n\nLesser subnational entities include the intra-municipal districts (which currently only exist in the city of Antwerp), the administrative, the electoral and the judicial arrondissements, police districts, as well as the new inter-municipal police zones (lower level than the police districts).\n\nThe Federal State retains a considerable \"common heritage\". This includes justice, defence (Belgian Army), federal police, social security, public debt and other aspects of public finances, nuclear energy, and state-owned companies (such as the Belgian Railways which is in fact an exception on regionalized transport; the Post Office was federal as well, but is being privatised). The State is responsible for the obligations of Belgium and its federalized institutions towards the European Union and NATO. It controls substantial parts of public health, home affairs and foreign affairs.\n\nCommunities exercise competences only within linguistically determined geographical boundaries, originally oriented towards the individuals of a community's language: culture (including audiovisual media), education, the use of the relevant language. Extensions to personal matters less directly attributed to the language comprise health policy (curative and preventive medicine) and assistance to individuals (protection of youth, social welfare, aid to families, immigrant assistance services, etc.)\n\nRegions have authority in fields connected with their territory in the widest meaning of the term, thus relating to the economy, employment, agriculture, water policy, housing, public works, energy, transport, the environment, town and country planning, nature conservation, credit, and foreign trade. They supervise the provinces, municipalities and intercommunal utility companies.\n\nIn several fields, the different levels each have their own say on specificities. On education for instance, the autonomy of the communities neither includes decisions about the compulsory aspect nor sets minimum requirements for awarding qualifications, which remain federal matters. Each level can be involved in scientific research and international relations associated with its powers.\n\nCommunities were created in 1970 as \"cultural communities\" with limited power. In 1980, more power was transferred from the federal state to these entities and they became simply \"communities\".\n\nBoth the Flemish and French Community have jurisdiction over the area of the Brussels-Capital Region. Consequently, they do not have a defined number of inhabitants. The German-speaking Community is the only community with an area over which they have sole jurisdiction as a community. It is located within the Walloon Region, which has even transferred some regional powers to the German-speaking Community with regards to its area.\n\nThe Flemish Region or Flanders ( or ) occupies the northern part of Belgium. It has a surface area of , or 44.29% of Belgium, and is divided into 5 provinces which contain a total of 308 municipalities.\n\nThe official language is Dutch. French can be used for certain administrative purposes in a dozen particular \"municipalities with language facilities\" around the Brussels-Capital Region and at the border with the Walloon Region.\n\nThe Flemish Region has no institutions on its own. Upon the creation of the provisional regions in 1974, a provisional Flemish Regional Council was installed with Mechelen as seat. However, with the definitive regions in 1980, its competencies were transferred to the Flemish Community in order to have unified Flemish institutions that combine both regional and community competencies, namely the Flemish Parliament and Flemish Government and its administration. Regional laws (called decrees) do however need to mention whether they are applicable to the community, the region or both.\n\nSince the capital of the Flemish Community is Brussels and its institutions have their seats there, it also indirectly serves as seat of government of the Flemish Region, even though the city is not part of it. Additionally, the city of Mechelen still has a relation to the Flemish Region as seat; it serves as the location for head office during European (and formerly Senate) elections.\n\nFlanders contains five provinces: West Flanders, East Flanders, Antwerp, Flemish Brabant and Limburg.\n\nThe Brussels-Capital Region (, , ) or Brussels Region is centrally located and completely surrounded by the province of Flemish Brabant and thus by the Flemish Region. With a surface area of , or 0.53% of Belgium, it is the smallest of the three regions. It contains the City of Brussels, which acts both as federal and regional capital, and 18 other municipalities. Its official languages are both Dutch and French. In the region ±78% speak French at home and ±22% speak Dutch, although a significant number of people combine these two languages. The Brussels Capital Region contains only one administrative arrondissement, the Arrondissement of Brussels-Capital. However, for juridical purposes, it forms an arrondissement with surrounding Flemish areas, the arrondissement of Brussels (equivalent in area to the former electoral district of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde).\n\nWithin Brussels, the two Communities have their own institutions that act as \"intermediary levels\" of government and public service, sitting below the Community institutions, and above the municipal institutions:\nIn addition to these two, a Common Community Commission exists which is the entity when the Brussels-Capital Region exercises community powers. In these cases, there are more requirements for the legislative process in order to safeguard the interests of both linguistic communities (de facto the Flemish community).\n\nSince the splitting of Brabant in 1995, the Brussels Region does not belong to any of the provinces. Within the Region, most of the provincial competencies are assumed by the Brussels regional institutions and community commissions. Additionally, there is a governor of Brussels-Capital, analogously to provinces.\n\nThe Walloon Region or Wallonia ( or ) occupies the southern part of Belgium. It has a surface area of , or 55.18% of Belgium, and is also divided into 5 provinces which contain a total of 262 municipalities. Its capital is Namur.\n\nThe official languages are French and, only in the nine eastern municipalities that form the German-speaking Community near the German border, German. Dutch however, may be used for administrative purposes in the four \"municipalities with language facilities\" at the border with Flanders, and German in two such municipalities near the German-speaking Community.\n\nThe Walloon Region contains five provinces: Hainaut, Walloon Brabant, Namur, Liège and Luxembourg.\n\n"}
{"id": "30991785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30991785", "title": "Community Safety and Security", "text": "Community Safety and Security\n\nCommunity Safety or Community Security (CS) is, according to the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), a concept that seeks to operationalize human security, human development and state-building paradigms at the local level. The contemporary concept of community security, narrowly defined, includes both group and personal security. The approach focuses on ensuring that communities and their members are \"free from fear\". Yet, a broader contemporary definition also includes action on a wider range of social issues to ensure \"freedom from want\". Like community safety and citizen security, it promotes a multi-stakeholder approach that is driven by an analysis of local needs. By emphasizing the \"community\" aspect the concept seeks to embrace both cultures and contexts that are \"individual-oriented\", including many in Latin America, and cultures and contexts that are \"group oriented\", as are many in Africa and South Asia.\n\nThe customization of CS programs depends on the specific context, but a core characteristic of the approach is a bottom-up focus on security creation and stabilization. As an approach, CS is not dealing with security creation on a national level, for instance through top-down legislation or peace agreements on a government level. Instead it focuses on short- and long term solutions to security problems in specific communities. \n\n\"Community\" does not just refer to individual community members, but refers to all actors, groups and institutions within the specific geographic space. It therefore also includes civil society organizations, the police and the local authorities that are responsible for delivering security and other services in that area.\n\nExamples of agencies working with a Community Safety approach are Saferworld, Danish Demining Group and the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF).\n\n"}
{"id": "15924494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15924494", "title": "Dorothy Podber", "text": "Dorothy Podber\n\nDorothy Podber (September 15, 1932 – February 9, 2008) was an American performance artist.\n\nBorn in the Bronx to a mother who had tried repeatedly, but unsuccessfully, to abort her, and to a father who worked for the Jewish mobster Dutch Schultz, Podber was later remembered as a disruptive influence by classmates from West Walton High School.\n\nA wild child of the New York City art scene in the 1950s and 1960s, she helped to run the Nonagon Gallery, which showed the work of a young Yoko Ono and was known for jazz concerts by such performers as Charles Mingus. However, her greatest fame—and notoriety—came from her work as a muse and collaborator with more prominent artists. On one occasion, she turned up at Andy Warhol's studio and put a bullet through a stack of his silk-screen paintings of Marilyn Monroe, after which she was banned from the studio. These four paintings, thereafter, were called \"The Shot Marilyns\". Podber revelled in her bad-girl reputation. In an interview in 2006, she said:\n\nI've been bad all my life. Playing dirty tricks on people is my specialty. \n\nIn the art world, she served mostly as a muse and a co-conspirator of more prominent artists like Ray Johnson, with whom she staged impromptu happenings on Manhattan streets.\n\nWhen funds were low, she found unorthodox ways of making money, engaging in businesses as diverse as dispatching maids to doctors' offices in an attempt to gain access to their drug cabinets, and running an illegal abortion referral service. She did paperwork for B'nai Brith long enough to pick their safe and use its contents on her own check-counterfeiting machine. Her attitude to these enterprises bordered on indifference. \"I never worked much,\" she reputedly said.\n\nShe was married three times, and had numerous casual liaisons. Her last husband was Lester Schwartz, a bisexual, who had a long-term relationship with actor/director Julian Beck. Schwartz died in 1986. Podber cited bisexuality as something she and Schwartz had in common. One boyfriend was a banker with whom she would have sexual intercourse only on the banknote-strewn floor of his firm's vault. She had no children by any of her partners. She died in her Manhattan apartment on February 9, 2008, from natural causes, aged 75.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1315808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1315808", "title": "Eurasians in Singapore", "text": "Eurasians in Singapore\n\nEurasians in Singapore are persons of mixed European and Asian descent. They form one of the identifiable communities in Singapore. Eurasians have been viewed with mixed fascination and disdain by the European and Asian communities. Their European ancestry traces to emigrants of countries that span the length and breadth of Europe, although Eurasian migrants to Singapore in the 19th century came largely from other European colonies in Asia, such as British Malaya in particular Malacca and Penang, India including Goa, the former Portuguese colony in India, and Chittagong (today in Bangladesh), the Dutch East Indies and French Indochina. When the European maritime powers colonised Asian countries, such as India, Ceylon, Malaya, Singapore, Indonesia and Indochina, from the 16th to 20th centuries, they brought into being a new race of people known historically and generally as the Eurasians. The early Western colonisers were not accompanied by their womenfolk on the perilous journey to Asia. Consequently, many married the local women of these lands, or formed liaisons with them. Initially the offspring of such a union were brought up as an appendage of the ruling class and enjoyed advantages not generally accorded the rest of the local Asian population. In time, as colonial attitudes hardened due to the 1915 Singapore Mutiny and growing independence movement, Eurasians were largely cast aside by the colonial masters and treated much like the rest of the local population. Eurasians or Kristang Eurasians who generally have some Kristang-speaking ancestry form a sub-group distinct from those who are the offspring of more recent immigrants and expatriates of European and Asian origin and who are also commonly called \"Eurasians\" in Singapore. The same or similar distinction exists between on the one hand those first- or second-generation Eurasians who typically would share the ethnic identity of one parent more closely, that parent typically not being of Kristang or Portuguese-origin, and on the other hand multi-generation(i.e. typically third-generation, fourth-generation and fifth-generation, etc) Eurasians who typically might have at least some distant Kristang-speaking or Iberian-origin ancestry, and many of whom would associate with some Kristang or Portuguese-origin cultural practices (e.g. Kristang songs and Portuguese-origin dances like \"Jinkli Nona\") and dine on Kristang Eurasian dishes like Devil's curry or \"curry debal\" in Kristang. As a general rule, first- or second-generation Eurasians typically do not have any Kristang-speaking ancestry, do not speak Kristang, generally do not adopt Kristang or Portuguese-origin cultural practices and cues, and are less familiar with Kristang Eurasian cuisine, language and history. Simply put, first-generation Eurasians are people whose parents are not Eurasians. Multi-generation (typically third-generation, fourth-generation and fifth-generation, etc) Eurasians are people whose parents or forefathers are themselves Eurasians.\n\nBefore the arrival of the Dutch, terook and French in Asia, the first Europeans to land and seize territory in Asia were the Portuguese, followed by the Spanish who claimed the Philippines. Portuguese spice-traders first sailed to Malacca in 1509, having already established settlements in Goa and other parts of India. Portuguese explorers and conquerors were accompanied by the first Jesuit priests to South-east Asia via Goa in Portuguese India. Afonso de Albuquerque, the viceroy of India, conquered Malacca (today just a few hours' drive from Singapore) in 1511, while Jesuit Francis Xavier, (a Basque Spaniard serving the Portuguese Crown) arrived in Malacca in 1545. Descendants of Portuguese and Spanish colonialists who lived in Malacca and are of mixed Portuguese/Spanish and mostly Malay, but also Indian or Chinese descent, are collectively known as the Gente Kristang. This group is characterised by being Catholic, sporting Portuguese surnames and having its own distinctive Portuguese creole, the Kristang language, although it is now only spoken by a few, older members of the community. Many are descended from individuals who lived in Malacca or other parts of Malaysia. Others have ancestors who lived in Java or other parts of Indonesia as a result of being expelled from Malacca after the Portuguese were forcibly ejected from Malacca by the Johore-Dutch alliance in 1641. A few Macanese people of Chinese-Portuguese ancestry from Macau are also living in Singapore.\n\nIn 1602, a Dutch trading company called the \"Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie\" or VOC (literally \"United East Indies Company\" but better known in English as the Dutch East India Company) was created to conduct trade in the area east of the Cape of Good Hope and west of the Straits of Magellan. In establishing their numerous trade stations spanning across Asia, the Dutch created independent settler societies in each of their colonies, where Batavia (now Jakarta, Indonesia) became the administrative centre and rendezvous point for the company's Asian shipping traffic.\n\nBetween 1602 and 1795, the VOC fitted out some 4,700 ships which carried almost a million Europeans to the Far East. Almost 70 percent of the one million of the passengers never actually returned to Europe, making Asia their new home. These early seafarers were not only made up of Dutch, but also included British, Germans, French Huguenots, Italians, Scandinavians and other Europeans who were employed by the VOC. In time, many were assimilated into Dutch colonies situated throughout Asia (though primarily in modern Indonesia) where they were stationed and became part of the respective communities.\n\nIntermarriages between VOC employees and locals were encouraged, which led to the creation of communities of Dutch descendants. Today, there are only five surviving coherent and large communities who are descended from those early intermarriages. They are the Cape Coloureds (South Africa), Basters and Oorlam (Namibia), Burghers (Sri Lanka), and Indos (Indonesia). Other Dutch groups have persisted as a strain among the Anglo-Burmese and Kristang. The Dutch Eurasians of Malacca are of Dutch and largely Malay but also Indian or Chinese descent. The Dutch transferred Malacca to the British in 1825 in exchange for territory in Sumatra. The British sought to depopulate Malacca and as a result many Eurasians and other people moved north to thriving Penang (where other Eurasians fleeing Phuket or moving from Kedah also settled) and later south to Singapore as it grew in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Dutch descendants in Malaysia and Singapore are primarily made up of Eurasians originating from Malacca, as well as others who emigrated from the East Indies, India and Sri Lanka. Leo and Hilda Campbell were Dutch Burghers who arrived in Singapore from Sri Lanka (then Ceylon) in 1910. The couple planned to migrate to Australia like many Eurasians but due to Hilda suffering a stroke, they remained in Singapore.\n\nThe British were the most important Europeans in colonial Singapore, as they were the colonial rulers of the island. A number of British settlers arrived after its colonial status changed in 1867. Interracial marriage was very common in colonial days. Even men who had European wives sometimes had 'a bit of curry on the side'. European women who moved to South-east Asia tended to die young. British men took Asian partners and their offspring would be Eurasian. Some who had British nationality preferred to settle in Britain or other parts of the Commonwealth, especially Australia. Many British and other European men of retirement age, instead of going back to cold Europe, would settle in Australia with Asian women, with fewer staying on in Singapore. Apart from being warmer than Europe, Australia was less judgemental than Europe or colonial Singapore to mixed marriages and mixed offspring. Independent Singapore's second President, Benjamin Sheares, was a Eurasian of English lineage. E. W. Barker, the former Law Minister, was of mixed- Portuguese, Irish, Japanese, Scottish, Malay and German descent. Author Rex Shelley was of mixed English, Portuguese, Malay and Buginese ancestry. National swimmer Joseph Schooling is a third-generation Singaporean, and is of Eurasian ethnicity. His parents are Colin and May Schooling. May is a Chinese Malaysian and a Singapore permanent resident; while Colin, a businessman, was born in Singapore. Colin's grandfather was a British military officer who married a local Portuguese-Eurasian in Singapore. The last name Schooling is believed to be an anglicised surname that originated in Germany.\n\nOther Eurasians in Singapore have parents or are descended from individuals who originated from various parts of Western Europe and its former colonies such as in the Americas, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa or elsewhere. Former Nominated Member of Parliament Eunice Olsen's father is of Swedish and Portuguese descent. His grandfather married a Chinese woman in Shanghai and brought her to Singapore. Geraldene Lowe's mother’s family was called Luth and came from Schleswig-Holstein, then part of Denmark. During Bismarck’s unification of Germany, they headed to Asia and Australia and married people from various nationalities.\n\nOlympic gold medallist swimmer Joseph Schooling is a Eurasian, as is his father Colin Schooling. His mother May Schooling is a Chinese-Malaysian\nwhile his father is of British, Swedish, Kristang and Portuguese descent.\n\nAuthor Rex Shelley was of mixed English, Portuguese, Malay and Buginese ancestry.\n\nSinger, Tabitha Nauser is a Eurasian of paternal Swiss and maternal Indian-Singaporean descent.\n\nOther Eurasians in Singapore have parents or are descended from individuals who originated from Japan, Korea or other parts of East Asia. An example is TV personality and presenter Stephanie Carrington, who is half White American and half Korean.\n\nSince January 2010, the Government in Singapore has allowed the double-barrelling of race classification by parents of different races when they register their children. The first of the two races should be the child's dominant race. So a European father and Chinese mother might register their son as \"European-Chinese\" instead of \"Eurasian\". A Malay father and European mother might register their daughter as \"Malay-European\" instead of \"Eurasian\". If these two children grow up and as adults marry each other and have a child of their own, that child (the grandchild of the two couples) could be registered by its parents as \"European-Malay\" taking the dominant race of the classifications of both parents \"European-Chinese\" and \"Malay-European\". As another example, a child with an Indian father and Eurasian mother would previously have been registered as \"Indian\". With the new system, the child can be identified officially as \"Indian-Eurasian\" or \"Eurasian-Indian\" depending on what the parents choose. The new form of race classification will be reflected in National Registration Identity Cards. The double-barrelling of race will give parents in mixed-race marriages even more flexibility when deciding their child's race, said Assistant Professor Ho Peng Kee, the junior minister who announced the change in Parliament. He explained the need for flexibility stemmed from the increasing diversity of Singapore's demographics, with the inflow of immigrants and more locals marrying foreigners. On the need to identify a dominant race, Ho said: \"Societal trends suggest that a child of mixed parentage tends to identify more closely with one of the two races.\"\n\nEnglish is generally spoken as a first language by almost all Eurasians in Singapore. A number of Eurasians speak Asian languages like Malay, Chinese (Mandarin or dialect) or Tamil as a second or third language. Like many Singaporeans, Eurasians will commonly speak Singlish. Some of the elder generation of Kristang Eurasians, typically those who have a Portuguese surname or are of Kristang-speaking descent, speak the Portuguese creole known as \"Cristão\" or \"Papia Kristang\" (Speaking Kristang) – the Kristang language at home and within their small community. Kristang is a dying patois and is only spoken by a small minority of Eurasians.\n\nThe Eurasian community in Singapore includes people that belong to different religions and to no religion, but most of them are Christians, mostly Catholic, with religious celebrations like Christmas typically being an integral part of their lifestyle. Many Eurasians in Singapore have been educated in Catholic mission schools like St Joseph's Institution. Protestant Eurasians in Singapore include Anglicans (Episcopals), Presbyterians, Methodists, Lutherans and Evangelicals. Eurasians looked upon an English education as a passport to a better life in colonial Singapore and so their children were among the first to enrol in the earliest English language schools when they were set up. They attained the highest literacy rate among the local groups here. This enabled them to secure comfortable employment, in both public and private sectors, following in the footsteps of their fathers and as a family tradition for the future generations.\n\nEurasian culinary traditions include (a beef stew), mulligatawny soup (\"mulligatani\" in Kristang), shepherd's pie and vindaloo (\"vin d'arlo\" in Kristang). Sugee cake made with semolina is also associated with the Eurasians, but also with the Peranakan Chinese.\n\nEurasians are prominent in the media, entertainment and fashion industry and are sought after because of their mixed look. In Singapore, Eurasian models are sometimes called 'Pan-Asians' for their mixed appearance. Apart from displaying certain Singaporean beauty standards, a common belief among those in the advertising industries of both Singapore and Malaysia is that a Eurasian model can appeal to different ethnic groups of Asian origin and thus there would be no need to create different advertisements to target different groups. For example, an advertisement featuring a Malaysian-Eurasian face could be used in places like Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand or Singapore because non-Eurasian Malaysians with their diverse origins could pass off as a Sri Lankan, Nepalese, Thai or Singaporean. \n\nIn media and entertainment, father and son Brian and Mark Richmond, Vernetta Lopez and Jean Danker are well-known radio personalities.\n\nEurasians in Singapore have also made their mark in the artistic and cultural domains. Jeremy Monteiro is a renowned jazz musician and Cultural Medallion winner. Rex Shelly was an award-winning writer known for his novels that feature the Eurasian community in Singapore and Malaysia.\n\nIn June 2009, 'Eurasiana - A Musical Tribute' marking the 90th anniversary of the Eurasian Association was performed at the Esplanade Concert Hall. It was a showcase of Eurasian music, dance and culture in Singapore. Also performing was the 50-piece Singapore Pop Orchestra led by Maestro Iskandar Ismail.\n\nSoon after the founding of Singapore by Stamford Raffles in 1819, people from other trading centres in Asia including Eurasians came to Singapore. Wealthy Eurasians set up home along Waterloo Street and Queen Street in the area between Bras Basah Road and Middle Road, not far from today's Singapore Management University. The types of houses that they lived in included shophouses, two-storey houses, terrace houses and bungalows. These were typically owned by well-to-do merchants and traders. The houses on Queen Street also consisted of shophouses that were occupied by non-Eurasian coolies. The living conditions in these shophouses were poor but at least the coolies could live close to where they worked. These houses on Queen Street were owned by the more well-to-do Eurasians. Nearby were Catholic schools like St Joseph's Institution and the Convent of the Holy Infant Jesus as well as other well-known schools that used to be located in the vicinity. A number of buildings and churches of the period in the vicinity still stand today. Today, few Eurasians can be found residing in the Waterloo Street and Queen Street area.\n\nEurasian families moved out from the enclaves to other locations such as the government quarters in Bukit Timah, the countryside areas in Serangoon and Upper Serangoon, and the then coastal region of Tanjong Katong. There were even kampongs (Malay for “villages”) along Haig Road and Siglap Road that had a concentration of Eurasian families. Another Eurasian enclave known as Little England was located in the area bounded by Farrer Park, Norfolk Road and Rangoon Road. The roads in the area were all named after English counties and towns. Eurasians today can now be found spread thinly across the island in both private and public housing. In past times, many Eurasians lived in the Katong area, as did prominent tour guide Geraldene Lowe in her youth. Katong is commonly considered Singapore's main Eurasian enclave because of some history, modern Eurasian literature and the present location of the Eurasian Association, it is more of a Peranakan Chinese enclave.\n\nThe leading association for Eurasians in Singapore is the Eurasian Association at 139 Ceylon Road in Katong. The Eurasian Association has played a major role in uniting the community and developing a stronger shared identity. It also a self-help group which serves the Eurasian community in Singapore. It has expanded the definition of Eurasian to include any person of mixed European and Asian parentage. Previously, only persons whose fathers were of European origin or who had European surnames were considered Eurasian. As of the end of 2013, there were 2,128 members of the Eurasian Association of Singapore.\n\nThe Singapore Recreation Club facing the Padang, Singapore near City Hall, founded by several Eurasian men, is considered to a social and sports club that is popular amongst the Eurasians in Singapore. E.W. Barker played sports like cricket and hockey for the Singapore Recreation Club (SRC) between 1934 and 1941, when the SRC was almost the strongest team in Singapore.\n\nDuring the Japanese Occupation, Europeans and Eurasian Singaporeans were generally spared the harsher treatments by the Japanese than other racial groups; however many of them became an increasing nuisance for their activist efforts, in particular the Catholic societies, who fostered strong community bonds with the local Chinese. From December 1943 to April 1944, a combination of a collapsing currency, rising food and continued social activism culminated in the reactionary and punitive land acquisition strategy which relocated about 400 Roman Catholic Chinese and 300 European/Eurasian families (of which most were land-owners and many Chinese households also ran small businesses or shop-keeps from their homes) that forcibly acquired land and fixed property from homeowners in exchange for an equal area of dry land two miles from the town of Bahau in Negeri Sembilan state in Malaya. Propagandised in the ironic manner of sending them off to live happier, better lives as a purely Catholic community where they could run their own affairs despite the reality that it was meant as a punishment. The responsibility for administering the affairs of the settlement was mockingly bestowed to prominent activist for Chinese welfare under occupation Roman Catholic Bishop, Monseigneur Adrian Devals. On his own accord, Dr C. J. P. Paglar, President of the Eurasian Welfare Association visited the settlement frequently to bring much needed medical and other supplies as well as give the populace moral strength. Although many of the settlers were educated through missionary schools, and many of the landowners had practised limited subsistence farming on their properties in Singapore, the soil at the Bahau settlement was intentionally apportioned by the Japanese as it consisted of non-arable land where there was insufficient water for irrigation. While the Japanese kept to their policy of restraint against the Europeans and Catholics (mindful of their German and Italian allies), the measure was deliberately intended to result in hardship for the settlers. The entire process which resulted in the deaths of about 500 settlers was extensively concealed under propaganda which sought to portray the departure of Catholic families from Singapore as a willing venture. As many who were relocated were generally of higher social and economic status, the propaganda which depicted better lives, created a resentment in the local populace and misplaced sense of betrayal against those that had initially defended them against the Japanese. The perverse nature of the Japanese propaganda was highly effective and would have lasting ramifications of distrust between the local races and their former colonial protectors. Many suffered from malnutrition, as their subsistence farming attempts could not provide self-sufficiency. In addition, they were plagued by malaria and other diseases. An estimated 500 settlers lost their lives, including Bishop Devals who helped many others to survive the ordeal. After the Japanese surrendered to the British in August 1945, the survivors were allowed to return to Singapore however were not compensated for their land or property.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37818725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37818725", "title": "Exxxotica", "text": "Exxxotica\n\nExxxotica is an annual three-day adult-themed event produced by 3XEvents. Billed as a \"Celebration of Sexy\", Exxxotica Expo shows are held in several US cities, which currently includes Edison, New Jersey, Chicago, Miami and Denver. First held in 2006, Exxxotica has featured some of the most recognized names in the adult industry, including Jenna Jameson, Tera Patrick and Katie Morgan.\n\nThe Exxxotica Expo had its first show in May 2006 at the Miami Beach Convention Center. The Exxxotica Expo would continue to be held each year at this venue through 2012. After the 2012 show, the event organizers announced that the expo would be moving to Fort Lauderdale in 2013. The event would go on to be held in Fort Lauderdale in 2013 and 2014, but did not return in 2015, thus ending a nine-year streak of Exxxotica shows in Florida. Exxxotica returned to Florida in July 2018, with a show at the Miami Airport Convention Center.\n\nIn 2008, the event was expanded to the New York/New Jersey market. The 2008 and 2009 shows were billed as \"Exxxotica NY\", although both shows actually took place in New Jersey. The 2008 event was originally scheduled to be held in Secaucus, New Jersey. Just days before the event, Secaucus officials filed a suit to stop the event from taking place, alleging that the convention would violate state law prohibiting liquor license owners from presenting pornographic material. Exxxotica convention organizers voluntarily moved the convention to the New Jersey Convention and Exposition Center in Edison, New Jersey. The Edison show would go on to attract over 18,000 attendees that year, and this event continues to be held yearly at the Edison venue. In September 2010, a lawsuit against a former Secaucus mayor surfaced due to the cancelling/moving of the convention to a different area. In addition to the yearly show in Edison, Exxxotica held its first show in Atlantic City at the Trump Taj Mahal Casino & Resort in April 2013. Another show would be held at the same venue in Atlantic City in 2014, but Exxxotica would not return to Atlantic City in 2015. In November 2017, Exxxotica celebrated their tenth anniversary in Edison, NJ with record attendance of approximately 30,000 attendees over the three days of the expo.\n\nThe inaugural Exxxotica Fan Choice Awards, also known as \"The Fannys\", was held on April 20, 2013 in the Grand Ballroom of the Trump Taj Mahal and was hosted by pornographic actress Alexis Texas and comedians Jim Florentine and Don Jamieson. The award nominees and winners are both selected by the fans through voting. In February 2013, the show's \"BBW Performer of the Year\" category was renamed from \"Hungry Hungry Hottie\" to \"Whole Lotta Love\" after the category's initial title was deemed offensive by the genre's fans and performers. The second annual Fanny Awards show was held on April 12, 2014 at the Trump Taj Mahal's Xanadu Theatre and was hosted by pornographic actresses Allie Haze and Tori Black and comedian Bonnie McFarlane.\n\nThe Exxxotica Expo held its first show in Los Angeles at the Los Angeles Convention Center on July 9–11, 2010, bringing in approximately 15,000 attendees. The decision to hold a show in Los Angeles came in part due to the fact that Erotica LA, a similar consumer adult entertainment event, made the decision not to hold a show in 2010. The Exxxotica LA shows drew in the lowest attendance of the three locations. 2011 was the final year that Exxxotica held a show in Los Angeles.\n\nThe Exxxotica Expo held its first show in the Chicago area in July 2011, taking place in July at the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center in Rosemont, Illinois. The show attracted a record 26,500 attendees, eclipsing the previous record of 24,000 set in 2008 in Miami Beach.\n\nThe Exxxotica Expo held its first show in Columbus, Ohio at the Greater Columbus Convention Center in August 2016.\n\nThe Exxxotica Expo held its first show in Dallas at the Kay Bailey Hutchison Convention Center in August 2015. The event drew more than 15,000 attendees, and organizers planned to hold another show at the same venue the following year. However, in February 2016, the Dallas City Council voted 8-7 to ban the event from the venue. The organizers filed for a temporary injunction, which was rejected by US District Judge Sidney Fitzwater.\n\nIn 2016, the event organizers announced that Exxxotica would debut in Denver, Colorado in 2017, at the Crowne Plaza Airport Convention Center. They returned to the city in April 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "41780306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41780306", "title": "Girl's court", "text": "Girl's court\n\nA girl's court is an gender responsive approach for girls in the juvenile justice system that links young \"at-risk\" females to social service agencies, providing informal sessions on everything from body image, education and counseling with a team of adults to provide trust and support.\n\nSome half dozen such courts have emerged around the United States, each defining itself around the problems in the surrounding area. One common theme is to treat young sex workers as the victims of sex trafficking. Identifying reasons for entry into these behaviors such as childhood abuse and dysfunctional homes is important to understanding the nature of the crime and circumstances unique to girls.\n\nThe Orange County Girls court started in 2009. It focuses teenage girls in long-term foster care, with preliminary studies suggesting better grades and fewer placements.\n\nThe Alameda County Girls Court handles young women who have been recruited as child prostitutes or are considered at risk for involvement. It was founded in 2011 and carved out of the existing juvenile court. A 2013 survey of 113 sexually exploited youths by WestCoast Children's Clinic found that 75 percent of such youngsters here and in a neighboring county had experienced abuse and neglect. For example, one girl was found passed out on the street, having injected drugs she could not identify. Another, whose mother, a methamphetamine addict, \"sold\" her daughter to an uncle who sexually exploited her in exchange for drugs. The county's H.E.A.T. Watch unit, started by the district attorney in 2006, targets people who traffic in women: as of 2013, 111 exploiters of children under 18 had been convicted. Most girls attend residential treatment programs out of state. Many are re-exploited after returning.\n\nIn Los Angeles County, a sex trafficking court diverts girls to local foster care agencies and social service providers, while the probation department now has a dedicated unit to support young victims.\n\nIn Florida, Circuit 4 Girls Court is a specialized form of juvenile court that assists in linking young \"at risk\" females to community resources, social service agencies, mentors and offers a holistic team approach. The young ladies are provided tools to be successful in the community. Girls Court is a collaboration between Department of Juvenile Justice, Family Support Services, The Fourth Judicial Circuit, the Delores Barr Weaver Policy Center and many more valuable community providers. Florida has two courts; one is in Jacksonville and the other in Pinellas County.\n\nMichigan has a girl's court in Genesee, which was started by Judge David Newblatt of the Genesee County 7th Circuit Court. It applies to all girls under 18. It provides girls with resources and counseling.\n\nThe court in Hawaii is a program where both parents and girls attend counseling for a year. It has led to a marked decrease in detentions, according to a 2011 evaluation.\n\nIn 2015, sexually exploited minors in Minnesota will be referred to one of six regional case managers who will direct them to a network of emergency shelters.\n\nNew York State has a new network of 11 statewide Human Trafficking Intervention Courts for those 16 years and up. New York State's Safe Harbor law, the country's first, classifies trafficked minors through age 17 as needing supervision rather than probation.\n\nOregon revised its child welfare practice so that a trafficked minor is considered a victim of abuse and the province of the child welfare system rather than the courts.\n\nTexas Supreme Court rules in 2010 that minors younger than 14 involved with prostitution charges will be considered a victim. The court decided that they would provide services with out criminalization. The court created a half way house called Freedom House to provide a safe place for the young women to receive services such as school and counseling. Freedom House can house up to 30 girls, starting at 10 years old up to 18, and receive educational, medical and psychological care.\n\nIn Wisconsin a Milwaukee County Committee is considering a girl court that will be aimed at young women who are accused of sex trafficking. This will also include girls who experience trauma and are involved in status offense crimes. If they move forward with the court they plan to have one or more judges trained in handling these types of offenses.\n\nIn Australia they have Juvenile court with gender specific services for young women charged with crimes. These specific services are away from male offenders. The services offered vary by location from health and wellbeing, relationships, education & training and other programs like cooking and following the law. Australia recognizes the need to treat young women with gender specific services.\n\nCourts are creating Gender responsive approach for girls in the juvenile justice system. These courts look to address gendered issues for girls but do not yet have their own formal girls courts. They practice a variety of programs aimed at addressing gendered issues for girls in juvenile court\n"}
{"id": "4318352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4318352", "title": "Husband", "text": "Husband\n\nA husband is a male in a marital relationship. The rights and obligations of a husband regarding his spouse and others, and his status in the community and in law, vary between cultures and have varied over time.\n\nIn monogamous cultures, there are only two parties to a marriage. This is enforced by legal codes that outlaw two (bigamy) or more (polygamy) female spouses. Similarly, polyandry, marriage of one female partner with more than one male partner at the same time is not permitted. In polygamous and polyandrous cultures, there may be more than two parties to a marriage.\n\nIn marriages where both spouses are men, both may be referred to as husband.\n\nIn heterosexual marriages, the husband was traditionally regarded as the head of the household and was expected to be the sole provider or breadwinner, a role that is still maintained in some cultures (sometimes described as paternalistic).\n\nThe term continues to be applied to such a man who has separated from his spouse and ceases to be applied to him only when his marriage has come to an end following a legally recognized divorce or the death of his spouse. On the death of his spouse, a husband is referred to as a widower; after a divorce a man may be referred to as the \"ex-husband\" of his former spouse.\n\nIn today's society a husband is not necessarily considered the breadwinner of the family, especially if his spouse has a more financially rewarding occupation or career. In such cases, it is not uncommon for a husband to be considered a stay-at-home father if the married couple have children.\n\nThe term \"husband\" refers to Middle English \"huseband\", from Old English \"hūsbōnda\", from Old Norse \"hūsbōndi\" (\"hūs\", \"house\" + \"bōndi\", \"būandi\", present participle of \"būa\", \"to dwell\", so, etymologically, \"a householder\").\n\nAt the conclusion of a valid wedding, the marrying parties acquire the status of married person and, while the marriage persists, a man is called a husband. In heterosexual marriages the woman is called a wife; in same-sex marriages between males, each male is called a husband; between females, each is called a wife. Regardless of gender, a married person is the spouse of the other party to the marriage.\n\nAlthough \"husband\" is a close term to groom, the latter is a male participant in a wedding ceremony, while a husband is a married man after the wedding and for the duration of the marriage. The term husband refers to the institutionalized role of the married male, while the term father refers to the male in context of his offspring, a state which may or may not indicate that a marriage ceremony has taken place.\n\nIn some cases of heterosexual marriage, before the marriage, he or his family may have received a dowry, or have had to pay a bride price, or both were exchanged. The dowry not only supported the establishment of a household, but also served as a condition that if the husband committed grave offenses upon his wife, he had to return the dowry to the wife or her family. For the time of the marriage, they were made inalienable by the husband. He might leave his wife (or wives), then widow (or widows), a dower (often a third or a half of his estate) to support her as dowager.\n\n\"Husband\" further refers to the institutionalized form in relation to the spouse and offspring, unlike father, a term that puts a man into the context of his children. Also compare the similar husbandry, which in the 14th century referred to the care of the household, but today means the \"control or judicious use of resources\", conservation, and in agriculture, the cultivation of plants and animals, and the science about its profession.\n\nAs an external symbol of the fact that they are married, each spouse commonly wears a wedding ring on the ring finger; whether this is on the left or right hand depends on the country's tradition.\n\nIn premodern heterosexual unions (ancient Roman, medieval, and early modern history), a husband was obliged to protect and support not only his wife and children, but servants and animals of his domain. The father (as the \"patron\") was awarded with much authority, differing from that of his wife (in these cultures, no polygamy existed).\n\nIn the Middle Ages and Early Modern European history, it was unusual to marry out of love, but then doing so became an influential ideal. During this period, a husband in a heterosexual marriage had more opportunities in society than his wife, who was not recognized as legally independent.\n\nIn contemporary secularized Western culture, the rights of the spouses have been made equal. The civil marriage generally forces the wealthier spouse \"breadwinner\" to provide alimony to the former spouse, even after separation and also after a divorce (see also Law and divorce around the world).\n\nThe legal status of marriage allows each spouse to speak on the other's behalf when one is incapacitated (e.g., in a coma); a husband is also responsible for his spouse's child(ren) in states where he is automatically assumed to be the biological father.\n\nIn Islamic marital jurisprudence, husbands are considered protectors of the household and their wives. As protector, the husband has various rights and obligations that he is expected to fulfill and thus is offered opportunities different from that of his wife or wives, not only in legal and economical affairs of the family but within the family as well. As in most cases in Islam law and culture, everything is being related to the Qur'an.\n\nMany Muslims may agree on a perfectly equal relationship. Islam is the only major religion that puts a cap on polygamy, limiting the number of a man's wives to four—provided the husband can do justice to all of them. Although some religions, such as Catholicism for instance, puts a cap on polygamy all together, or even serial monogamy, allowing one spouse until death does them apart, not even accepting divorce. According to the teachings of Islam a Muslim man should have a valid reason and have to get permission from his existing wife (without any force) if he requires to marry again. Islam vehemently abhors any intimate relationship outside the bond of marriage.\n\nThere is no external sign to show his status as a husband, unless he adopted the tradition of wearing a wedding ring.\n\nA Hindu husband traditionally takes his wife to his home. He is expected to provide for her and to prove his abilities to do so. The marriage in Hinduism is a relationship for Seven births (सात जन्मों का रिश्ता). Before 1951 there was no divorce allowed in Hindu marriage. In past before 1750CE equal rights were given to both men and women and the same was extended in marriage as well.\n\nIn modern times once again after 1951, equal rights for women through society and law jurisdiction is given. In Hinduism, based on the different regions, marriage process is observed differently with the same Saat Pheras around agni kund (light pyre) to be taken to become a husband and wife.\n\nThe Encyclopædia Britannica mentions that \"In Hindu law, the male members of a joint family, together with their wives, widows, and children, are entitled to support out of the joint property.\"\n\nChina's family laws were changed by the Communist revolution; and in 1950, the People's Republic of China enacted a comprehensive marriage law including provisions giving the spouses equal rights with regard to ownership and management of marital property.\n\nIn Christianity, according to the Bible, a husband in a heterosexual marriage has a number of honors:\n\nIn Japan, before enactment of the Meiji Civil Code of 1898, all of the woman's property such as land or money passed to her husband except for personal clothing and a mirror stand.\n\nAlthough there is generally an expectation for a spouse not to have sexual relations with anyone other than his spouse(s), historically, in most cultures, this expectation was not as strong as in the case of wives, a situation which was evident in legal codes which prohibited adultery, with male adultery often being criminalized only if \"aggravating\" circumstances existed, such as if he brought his mistress in the conjugal home, or if there was public scandal. The double standard was also evident in divorce laws of many countries, such as the UK or Australia, which differentiated between female adultery, which was a ground of adultery by itself, and male adultery, which was a ground only under certain circumstances. This double standard continues to be seen today in many parts of the world. For instance, in the Philippines, a wife can be charged with the crime of a\"dultery\" (for merely having one act of sexual intercourse with a man other than her husband), while a husband can only be charged with the related crime of c\"oncubinage\", which is more loosely defined (it requires either keeping the mistress in the family home, or cohabiting with her, or having sexual relations under scandalous circumstances).\n\nA breach of this expectation of fidelity is commonly referred to as adultery or extramarital sex. Historically, adultery has been considered a serious offense, sometimes a crime. Even if that is not so, it may still have legal consequences, particularly a divorce. Adultery may be a factor to consider in a property settlement, it may affect the status of children, the custody of children, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "48277404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48277404", "title": "IBooks Author Conference", "text": "IBooks Author Conference\n\nThe iBooks Author Conference is an annual gathering of the user community of Apple's iBooks Author digital content creation software, including educators, creative professionals, marketing professionals, entrepreneurs, corporate trainers, self-published authors, and many others. \"The iBAs,\" the awards recognizing achievement in iBooks Author production, are part of the iBooks Author Conference and recognize books and individuals from around the world.\n\nThe 2015 iBooks Author Conference took place at the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville, Tennessee with Apple, NASA, Southwest, HCA, and other large companies in attendance. Keynote speakers for the inaugural iBooks Author Conference included Kelly Gabrysch, Director of Digital Publishing at Trailer Park Los Angeles, Dr. Julia Maurer of Mercersburg Academy (PA), and the co-creators of The Mozart Project, an interactive book created used iBooks Author.\n\nThe 2016 iBooks Author Conference took place at the Gaylord Opryland Resort & Convention Center on October 6–7, 2016. The keynote was provided by Southwest Airlines, which uses iBooks Author to create their company-wide training curriculum (called \"Southwest Airlines University\"). Apple was the largest attendees of the conference, with an entire international business unit attending.\n\nThe 2017 iBooks Author Conference has been announced for October 12–13, 2017, on the campus of Vanderbilt University. The keynote will be provided by NASA, which has used iBooks Author extensively and most recently to create the multi-touch book \"Destination: Jupiter\", which tells the story of the successful Juno mission. Southwest Airlines, the newest major sponsor of the event, will provide a reception for attendees during the event.\n"}
{"id": "3816155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3816155", "title": "Jeberti people", "text": "Jeberti people\n\nThe Jeberti (also spelled Jabarti, Jaberti, Jebarti or Djeberti) are a Muslim turned during 19 century clan inhabiting the Horn of Africa and Middle East, mainly Somalia, Ethiopia, Djibouti, Eritrea and Yemen.\n\nIslam was introduced to the Horn of Africa around 16 century from the Arabian peninsula. Zeila's \"Masjid al-Qiblatayn\" (Two-mihrab Mosque) dates to the 16th century, and is the oldest mosque in the city. In the late 9th century, Al-Yaqubi wrote that Muslims were living along the northern Somali seaboard. Among these early migrants was Abdirahman bin Isma'il al-Jabarti, the forefather of the Darod clan family. Al-Maqrizi noted that a number of the Muslims settled in the Zeila-controlled Jabarta region which is presently northeastern Somalia, and from there gradually expanded into the hinterland in the horn of Africa. The Jebertis make the majority of the population in Somalia and big minority in Yemen, Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Kenya. Most Jeberti concentrated cities includes, Asmara, Addis Ababa, Kismayo, Badhan, Garowe, Garbaharey, Jigjiga, Bosaso, Bardera, Buraan and Garissa\n\nThe Jebertis in Somalia are called \"Darood\" lost their ancestral language and now speak Somali, in Eritrea they mainly speak Arabic and Tigrinya, while the Jeberti in Ethiopia speak Arabic.[1] Their original language belong to the Semitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic family.\n\n"}
{"id": "34044829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34044829", "title": "John Sutton Nettlefold (social reformer)", "text": "John Sutton Nettlefold (social reformer)\n\nJohn Sutton Nettlefold, JP (2 May 1866 – 3 November 1930) was an English social reformer.\n\nHe was the fourth son of Edward John Nettlefold (the son of John Sutton Nettlefold, 1792–1866) and was born in London in 1866. In 1878, he came to Birmingham and after leaving school entered the Broad Street offices of Messrs. Nettlefold and Co. (later GKN). Subsequently he resigned his post and became managing director of Kynoch Ltd, a position he retained for many years. He was also chairman of Thomas Smith's Stampings Ltd, and a director of Henry Hope and Sons Ltd for a considerable period. \nIn 1898 he entered the City Council as a representative of Edgbaston and Harborne Ward, and remained a Councillor until 1911. In addition to his work for social reform Nettlefold was interested in charitable and philanthropic movements. For several years he was honorary secretary, and afterwards chairman of the Women’s Hospital, and a liberal subscriber to its funds. He was also at one time honorary treasurer of the Graham Street Charity School, and took a keen interest in the work of the Fazeley Street Mission. Nettlefold was a Justice of the Peace for Worcestershire, and also a magistrate for the city of Birmingham. \n\nWhilst living in Birmingham, Nettlefold commissioned a home for his family from the architect Joseph Lancaster Ball. The resulting Arts and Crafts style house was called Winterbourne and it and its grounds are open to the public, the latter forming the University of Birminghams' Winterbourne Botanic Garden.\n\nNettlefold's most notable contribution was to the improvement of public housing in Birmingham for the working classes. In 1901, as the chairman of Birmingham's new Housing Committee he extended the city's slum clearance works. In 1907 when the majority of inner city housing was of a crowded back-to-back design, Nettlefold established the garden suburb Moor Pool in Harborne to provide low density affordable housing with many interspersed green spaces, centred around a community hall. His publications on urban planning included \"Slum Reform and Town Planning\", and \"Practical Housing\".\n"}
{"id": "4865794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4865794", "title": "Jumjum people", "text": "Jumjum people\n\nJumjum is an ethnic group in South Sudan. Most of its members are Muslims. The number of persons in this group is at about 50,000. They speak Jumjum, a Nilotic language. They live in the Upper Nile.\nThe Jumjum people are mostly farmers and shepherds. Men and women work together to cultivate crops such as millet, sesame, and beans. The men also engage in hunting and fishing, while women collect fruits and grain.\n\nA 'rain chief' acts as the headman of each village. He possesses both political and religious power. His dwelling is characterized by village drums, heirloom weapons, and other symbolic insignia related to old Jumjum culture. \n\nThe Jumjum people are closely related to the Burun and the Mabaan people.\n"}
{"id": "1231202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1231202", "title": "Jùjú music", "text": "Jùjú music\n\nJùjú is a style of Nigerian popular music, derived from traditional Yoruba percussion. The name comes from a Yoruba word \"juju\" or \"jiju\" meaning \"throwing\" or \"something being thrown.\" Juju music did not derive its name from juju, which \"is a form of magic and the use of magic objects or witchcraft common in West Africa, Haiti, Cuba and other South American nations.\" It evolved in the 1920s in urban clubs across the countries, and was believed to have been created by AbdulRafiu Babatunde King, popularly known as Tunde King. The first jùjú recordings were by Tunde King and Ojoge Daniel from the same era of the 1920s when Tunde King pioneered it. The lead and predominant instrument of Jùjú is the \"Iya Ilu,\"' talking drum.\n\nSome Jùjú musicians were itinerant, including early pioneers Ojoge Daniel, Irewole Denge and the \"blind minstrel\" Kokoro.\n\nAfro-juju is a style of Nigerian popular music, a mixture of Jùjú music and Afrobeat. Its most famous exponent was Shina Peters, who was so popular that the press called the phenomenon \"Shinamania\". Afro-juju's peak of popularity came in the early 1990s.\n\nFollowing World War II, electric instruments began to be included, and pioneering musicians like Earnest Olatunde Thomas (Tunde Nightingale), Fatai Rolling Dollar, I. K. Dairo, Dele Ojo, Ayinde Bakare, Adeolu Akinsanya, King Sunny Adé, and Ebenezer Obey made the genre the most popular in Nigeria, incorporating new influences like funk, reggae and Afrobeat and creating new subgenres like yo-pop. Some new generation juju artistes include Oludare Olateju also known as Ludare, the son of Sabada juju music creator; Emperor Wale Olateju and Bola Abimbola. Although Juju music, like apala, sakara, fuji, and waka was created by Muslim Yoruba, the music itself remains secular. King Sunny Adé was the first to include the pedal steel guitar, which had previously been used only in Hawaiian music and American country music.\n\nJùjú music is performed primarily by artists from the southwestern region of Nigeria, where the Yoruba are the most numerous ethnic group. In performance, audience members commonly shower jùjú musicians with paper money; this tradition is known as \"spraying\".\n\nOne of the centers of the performance of jùjú music is in Ibadan. Most jùjú musicians are based in the zone of market forces, and most of these are in an area of immigrant neighborhoods. \nThere are several contexts in which jùjú music is performed. One of these contexts is ‘the Hotels’. The Hotels are concentrated in the immigrant areas and they serve as taverns, dance halls and brothels. They range from very small wooden structures to clusters of two or three building with a stage in the middle. Most activity takes place after nine pm and the hotels are the center of Ibadan’s nocturnal economic structure. One of the economic activities associated with the hotels is the sale of drinks and food. The Hotels are seen as places of relaxation, where patrons, mainly men, come to escape every day life. They are places where people can come to do things that they might not want to be seen doing at home. The jùjú music performed is not the focus of the venue but most patrons prefer live music to records. The bands that perform do not have a guaranteed wage; instead they rely upon donations from patrons. Most bands will only perform during the weeknights, leaving the weekends free for more lucrative gigs. \nAnother context in which jùjú music is played is at celebrations called àríyá. These celebrations are parties which celebrate the naming of a baby, weddings, birthdays, funerals, title-taking, ceremonies and the launching of new property or business enterprises. These events are sponsored so the musicians are guaranteed payment. The wealth of the hosts and the guests is shown through their reward to the entertainers. It is customary to press the contribution to the musician’s forehead so that everyone can see how wealthy they are. The musicians will often return good payment with praise songs to the donors. Live music is crucial to the proper functioning of an àríyá.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12449763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12449763", "title": "Leviathan and the Air-Pump", "text": "Leviathan and the Air-Pump\n\nLeviathan and the Air-Pump: Hobbes, Boyle, and the Experimental Life (published 1985) is a book by Steven Shapin and Simon Schaffer. It examines the debate between Robert Boyle and Thomas Hobbes over Boyle's air-pump experiments in the 1660s. In 2005, Shapin and Schaffer were awarded the Erasmus Prize for this work.\n\nOn a theoretical level, the book explores the acceptable methods of knowledge production, and societal factors related to the different knowledge systems promoted by Boyle and Hobbes. The \"Leviathan\" in the title refers to Hobbes's book on the structure of society, \"Leviathan, or The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil\" and the \"Air-Pump\" refers to Robert Boyle's invention. The book also contains a translation by Schaffer of Hobbes's \"Dialogus physicus de natura aeris\". It attacked Boyle and others who founded the society for experimental research, soon known as the Royal Society.\n\nShapin and Schaffer state, in their first chapter \"Understanding Experiment\", that they wish to answer the question, \"Why does one do experiments in order to arrive at scientific truth?\" Their aim is to use a historical account of the debate over the validity of Boyle's air pump experiments, and by extension his experimental method, to discover the origins of the credibility that we give experimentally produced facts today. The authors wish to avoid \"'The self-evident'\" method, which (they explain) is when historians project the values of their current culture onto the time period that they are studying (in this case valuing the benefits of empiricism). They wish to take a \"stranger's\" viewpoint when examining the debate between Hobbes and Boyle because, in the 1660s, both methods of knowledge production were well respected in the academic community and the reasons that Boyle's experimentalism prevailed over Hobbes's natural philosophy would not have been obvious to contemporaries.\n\nThey explain that, traditionally, Hobbes's position on natural philosophy has been dismissed by historians because historians perceived Hobbes as \"misunderstanding\" Boyle's work. Thus, in \"Leviathan and the Air-Pump\", Shapin and Schaffer aim to avoid bias and consider both sides' arguments with equal weight. In addition, they comment on the social instability of Restoration society post-1660. They aim to show that the debate between these two contemporaries had political fallout beyond the intellectual sphere, and that accepting Hobbes or Boyle's method of knowledge production was also to accept a social philosophy.\nThe work has been described as a classic example in the history of science of the posing of a basic question on scientific rationality. Can the rationality of two sides in a debate be described, from outside, when hindsight operates and the \"road not taken\" by science is known? Margaret C. Jacob wrote that, for a time, it was the most influential book in the field of history of science, following the trend to relativism with its equation of \"scientific discourses\" with \"strategies of power\".\n\nJ. L. Heilbron credits Shapin and Schaffer with picking important aspects of the development of experimental culture that are still relevant, citing specifically the problems with replication. However, he casts doubt upon the strength of the relationship between politics of the greater society and the politics within the Royal Society. In addition, Heilbron laments the absence of comparisons to the development of empiricism in the rest of Europe because it blinds the reader to what may have been peculiar to England's case.\n\nAnna Marie Roos, on the other hand, writes that Shapin and Schaffer do indeed draw a connection between the history of science and the history of political thought, and that their resolution to remain impartial when examining the argument between Hobbes and Boyle forces historians of science and politics alike to recognize the relationship between the two branches of knowledge.\n\nLawrence M. Principe, in \"The Aspiring Adept: Robert Boyle and His Alchemical Quest\", argues extensively that many of the conclusions reached by Shapin and Schaffer rest on inaccurate and at times presentist conceptions of Boyle's work.\n\nNoel Malcolm and Cees Leijenhorst deny the political background of the Hobbes-Boyle controversy. They argue that Hobbes’ rejection of the void has no political agenda and has nothing to do with his attack on incorporeal substances, as Shapin and Schaffer claim. Both Malcolm and Leijenhorst call attention to the remarkable fact that Hobbes was already attacking incorporeal substances when he was a vacuist, and long before he became a plenist.\n\nFrank Horstmann, in \"Leviathan und die Erpumper. Erinnerungen an Thomas Hobbes in der Luftpumpe\", has criticized Shapin and Schaffer's use of the historical evidence. He argues that Shapin and Schaffer have a lot of important facts wrong. Before May 1648, for example, Hobbes preferred vacuist interpretations of experimental pneumatics and strictly rejected plenist interpretations as \"not imaginable\"; but Shapin and Schaffer turn the vacuist into a plenist by ignoring all the vacuist interpretations and by producing a very faulty translation as a putative proof for a plenist interpretation. Horstmann argues that there are many similar errors and wrong quotations in \"Leviathan and the Air-Pump\" and suggests that the chapters dealing with Hobbes are constructed on heavy and sometimes systematic misrepresentations of the historical record.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9819565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9819565", "title": "Linda Singer", "text": "Linda Singer\n\nLinda Singer (born September 14, 1966, in Cleveland, Ohio) is an American attorney. She was the Attorney General of the District of Columbia from January 2, 2007 to January 5, 2008, and developed initiatives against gun violence.\n\nSinger is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College (B.A. 1988) and Harvard Law School (J.D. 1991) where she was a leader of student protests against discrimination in law school faculty hiring. \n\nShe was a staff attorney at the Legal Aid Society of New York's Criminal Defense Division. She became the executive director of the Appleseed Foundation, and served in this post for 13 years.\n\nShe became a partner with Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC in New York in 2009.\n\nIn 2017, Linda joined Motley Rice to grow the firm's public client practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "32702154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32702154", "title": "List of Indian states by life expectancy at birth", "text": "List of Indian states by life expectancy at birth\n\nThis is a list of Indian states by Life expectancy at birth. The figures come from the Human Development Index Report, published in 2011, by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) India and Sample Registration Survey (SRS) based life table 2010-14.\n\nThe report provides life expectancy at birth for years 2002-06 and 2010-14. In 2002-6, Punjab had the second highest life expectancy. Kerala had the highest life expectancy among the states in India, while Assam had the lowest. The figures for North-Eastern States were unavailable.\n"}
{"id": "204644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204644", "title": "List of bicycle brands and manufacturing companies", "text": "List of bicycle brands and manufacturing companies\n\nThis page lists bicycle brands and manufacturing companies past and present. This article relates to pedal cycles. tricycles and power assisted cycles but does not include Motorcycles. For bicycle parts, see List of bicycle part manufacturing companies.\n\nMany bicycle brands do not manufacture their own product, but rather import and re-brand bikes manufactured by others (e.g., Nishiki), sometimes designing the bike, specifying the equipment, and providing quality control. There are also brands that have, at different times, been manufacturers as well as re-branders: a company with manufacturing capability may market models made by other (overseas) factories, while simultaneously manufacturing bicycles in-house, for example, high-end models.\n\nOnly brands or manufacturers that are notable as a bicycle brand should be included. If no page exists for the company or brand, then the page to be linked to should be created first or a reference provided as to its notability or the entry will probably be removed.\n\nBicycle manufacturers are in many cases members of \"Groups\", i.e. they have several product names - so-called \"brands\". Examples include the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19185041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19185041", "title": "List of frequent flyer programs", "text": "List of frequent flyer programs\n\nFrequent-flyer programs are customer loyalty programs used by many passenger airlines. This is a list of current airlines with frequent-flyer programs, and the names of those programs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56071996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56071996", "title": "List of investigational antipsychotics", "text": "List of investigational antipsychotics\n\nThis is a list of investigational antipsychotics, or antipsychotics that are currently under development for clinical use but are not yet approved. \"Chemical/generic names are listed first, with developmental code names, synonyms, and brand names in parentheses.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11208818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11208818", "title": "Margaret Ethel MacDonald", "text": "Margaret Ethel MacDonald\n\nMargaret Ethel MacDonald (\"née\" Gladstone; 20 July 1870 – 8 September 1911) was a British feminist, social reformer, and wife of Labour politician Ramsay MacDonald from 1896 until her death from blood poisoning in 1911.\n\nMargaret Gladstone was born in Kensington, London, to John Hall Gladstone, later Fullerian Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution. She was educated both at home and at Doreck College in Bayswater. Early in adulthood she was involved in voluntary social work, including visits for the Charity Organisation Society in Hoxton.\n\nBy 1890 she was a keen socialist, influenced by the Christian Socialists and the Fabian Society.\n\nIn 1894 she joined the Women's Industrial Council, serving on several committees and organising the enquiry into home work in London, which was published in 1897. She met Ramsay MacDonald through this work in 1895 and they married in 1896. She was comfortably off, although not wealthy. This allowed them to indulge in foreign travel, visiting Canada and the United States in 1897, South Africa in 1902, Australia and New Zealand in 1906, and India several times.\nAfter her marriage she was concerned about the need for skilled work and training for women and played a key part in establishing the first trade schools for girls in 1904. She continued this work until 1910.\n\nShe was a member of the National Union of Women Workers. She served on the executive of the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies, although she was opposed to militant action. In 1906 she became involved in the formation of the Women's Labour League, serving as chair until her death in 1911.\n\nThe marriage to Ramsay MacDonald was a very happy one, and they had six children, including Malcolm MacDonald (1901–81), who had a prominent career as a politician, colonial governor, and diplomat; and Ishbel MacDonald (1903–82), official hostess to her father. After Margaret MacDonald's death, Ramsay MacDonald became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom three times but did not remarry.\n\nThe \"Memorial to Margaret MacDonald\" was said to be designed by her husband, and sculpted by Richard Reginald Goulden. It was unveiled in 1914 in the garden of Lincoln's Inn Fields, London.\n"}
{"id": "33406554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33406554", "title": "Micro-conference", "text": "Micro-conference\n\nA micro-conference is a small scale conference that allows researchers to present and discuss their work. They provide a channel for the exchange of nascent ideas and an opportunity for academic collaboration.\n\nMicro-conferences draw upon a collaborative ‘workshop’ tradition of research and occupy the space between a seminar and an academic conference. \nLike seminars they bring together small groups to focus on a particular subject and encourage active participation. However, like academic conferences they are usually composed of various research-led presentations and focus upon the informal dissemination of ideas rather than academic instruction. \nThey are short and concise, with participants offering a brief overview or raising research-led questions. These are usually submitted as a short abstract and reviewed before the presentation is accepted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324604", "title": "Monguor language", "text": "Monguor language\n\nThe Monguor language (; also written Mongour and Mongor) is a Mongolic language of its Shirongolic branch and is part of the Gansu–Qinghai sprachbund. There are several dialects, mostly spoken by the Monguor people. A written script was devised for Huzhu Monguor (Mongghul) in the late 20th century, but has been little used. A division into two languages, namely Mongghul in Huzhu Tu Autonomous County and Mangghuer in Minhe Hui and Tu Autonomous County, is considered necessary by some linguists. While Mongghul was under strong influence from Tibetan, the same holds for Mangghuer and Chinese, and local dialects of Chinese such as Gangou were in turn influenced by Monguor.\n\nMonguor has five vowels: /a, e, i, o, u/.\n\nMongolian numerals such as the following are only in use in the Mongghul dialect, while Mangghuer speakers have switched to counting in Chinese. Note that while the Mongolian script has only \"arban\" for 'ten', Middle Mongolian *\"harpa/n\" including *\"h\" can be reconstructed from the scripts.\nE. Gaspardone\nBulletin de l'Ecole française d'Extrême-Orient Année 1933 Volume 33 Numéro 1 p. 1014\nhttp://www.persee.fr/doc/befeo_0336-1519_1933_num_33_1_4683\n\n"}
{"id": "2042558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2042558", "title": "Naming taboo", "text": "Naming taboo\n\nA naming taboo is a cultural taboo against speaking or writing the given names of exalted persons in China and neighboring nations in the ancient East Asian cultural sphere. This taboo is important to keep in mind when studying ancient historical texts from the cultural sphere, as historical characters and/or locations may be renamed if they happen to share a name with the emperor in power (or previous emperors of the same dynasty) when the text was written.\n\n\nThere were three ways to avoid using a taboo character:\n\nThroughout Chinese history, there were emperors whose names contained common characters who would try to alleviate the burden of the populace in practicing name avoidance. For example, Emperor Xuan of Han, whose given name Bingyi (病已) contained two very common characters, changed his name to Xun (詢), a far less common character, with the stated purpose of making it easier for his people to avoid using his name. Similarly, Emperor Taizong of Tang, whose given name Shimin (世民) also contained two very common characters, ordered that name avoidance only required the avoidance of the characters \"Shi\" and \"Min\" in direct succession and that it did not require the avoidance of those characters in isolation. However, his son Emperor Gaozong of Tang effectively made this edict of Emperor Taizong ineffective after his death by requiring the complete avoidance of the characters \"Shi\" and \"Min\", necessitating the chancellor Li Shiji to change his name to Li Ji. In later dynasties, princes were frequently given names that contained uncommon characters to make it easier for the public to avoid them, should they become emperor later in life.\n\nThe custom of naming taboo had a built-in contradiction: without knowing what the emperors' names were one could hardly be expected to avoid them, so somehow the emperors' names had to be informally transmitted to the populace to allow them to learn them in order to avoid them. In one famous incident in 435, during the Northern Wei Dynasty, Goguryeo ambassadors made a formal request that the imperial government issue them a document containing the emperors' names so that they could avoid offending the emperor while submitting their king's petition. Emperor Taiwu of Northern Wei agreed and issued them such a document. However, the mechanism of how the regular populace would be able to learn the emperors' names remained generally unclear throughout Chinese history.\n\nSince every reign of every dynasty had its own naming taboos, the study of naming taboos can help date an ancient text.\n\nIn Vietnam, the family name Hoàng (黄) was changed to Huỳnh in the South due to the naming taboo of Lord Nguyễn Hoàng's name. Similarly, the family name \"Vũ\" is known as \"Võ\" in the South.\n\nJapan was also heavily influenced by the naming taboo. In modern Japan, it concerns only the Emperor of Japan, whom people only refer as Tennō Heika (天皇陛下, his Majesty the Emperor) or Kinjō Heika (今上陛下, his current Majesty). Ancient Japanese people had so much respect for this custom that historians forgot the actual names of many historical figures or even sometimes the correct pronunciation, as many Han characters have multiple pronunciations. For example, the son of Oda Nobunaga, Oda Nobukatsu, is often called Oda Nobuo; but it mainly concerns more ancient historical figures like Murasaki Shikibu, whose actual name may forever remain a mystery.\n\nMany Aboriginal Australian cultures avoid the names of deceased persons, both verbally and in written language. For this reason, the names of many notable Aboriginal people were only recorded by Westerners and may have been incorrectly transliterated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30993294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30993294", "title": "National Food Survey (India)", "text": "National Food Survey (India)\n\nThe National Food Survey is a syndicated, multi-year study of food habits and consumption across urban India, conducted bi-annually by IMRB International. The last round of the National Food Survey was conducted in September 2007.\n\nNFS is one of the most comprehensive studies in terms of categories, and information coverage, providing baseline information on food purchase behavior. The Food survey collects information on 55 varied product categories ranging from breakfast cereals to ready-to-eat foods and provides a range of information on variables such as category penetration, frequency of purchase, trial and usage of brands and barriers to adoption of certain food categories. The study also captures information on media, demographic, and kitchen related variables.\n\nThe Food Survey is not to be confused with a similarly named government social survey conducted by the British government. Unlike the British National Food Survey it does not provide information for economic planning, and is primarily a research tool for food marketers.\n"}
{"id": "57803268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57803268", "title": "National Institute of Statistics (Guatemala)", "text": "National Institute of Statistics (Guatemala)\n\nThe National Statistics Institute of Guatemala (, INE) is the statistics agency of the Government of Guatemala. It has responsibility to collect, prepare, and publish official statistics. INE runs the population census and issues statistics on employment, price levels, poverty rates, and other standard national statistics.\n\nINE will conduct a population census of Guatemala in July and August of 2018, the twelfth such census.\n\nINE publishes monthly consumer price index (CPI) statistics. Annual consumer price inflation was estimated at 4-5% in 2016.\n\nINE publishes general agriculture, health, and environmental statistics.\n"}
{"id": "12972445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12972445", "title": "Pancha-Dravida", "text": "Pancha-Dravida\n\nPancha Dravida is one of the two major groupings of Brahmins in Hinduism, of which the other was Pancha-Gauda.\n\nKalhana, in his \"Rajatarangini\" (c. 12th century CE), classifies the following five Brahmin communities as Pancha Dravida, stating that they reside to the south of the Vindhyas:\n\n\nThe Maratha-era \"kaifiyat\"s (bureaucratic records) of Deccan, which give an account of the society in the southern Maratha country, mention the following Brahmin communities as Pancha Dravida:\n\n\nThe \"kafiyat\"s classify the Gurjara Brahmins as Pancha Gauda. They also mention the following 16 sub-castes of the Pancha-Dravidas:\n"}
{"id": "39664291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39664291", "title": "Peace–industrial complex", "text": "Peace–industrial complex\n\nIn political science, political economics, and peace and conflict studies, referring to the military–industrial complex, the peace–industrial complex defines the industry and economy derived from development, peacemaking, peacebuilding, and conflict resolution at both the domestic and foreign levels. While some scholars (Seiberling 1972) argue that the peace–industrial complex must oppose the military-industrial complex, others (Aberkane 2012) argue it is destined to become its natural, peaceful evolution, and further call it the \"military-industrial complex 2.0\". The latter argue the peace-industrial complex more precisely consists of turning military research and development into civilian technology as systematically as possible. Although it has been discussed in more recent times the concept was introduced as early as in 1969 by the U.S. Senate Committee on Government Operations.\n\nAt least two approaches to the War Against War may be distinguished, the frontal opposition to war or Anti-war movement on the one side and the transcendent, post-war conception of William James' 'Moral Equivalent of war' positing, in the way of the UNESCO, that the only way to end conflicts is to make Humanity busy with more fascinating endeavors than wars. In his Nobel acceptance speech Martin Luther King further underlined that idea which would become the basis of the transcendentist school (e.g. Aberkane):\n\nVarious scholars (Suter 1986, Aberkane 2012, Roberts 2009) and politicians (Seiberling 1972) have thus advocated that peace profiteering should simply be made palatably larger than any possible war profiteering, thus transcending the war against war. However, the first generations of Peace-Industrial scholars have advocated frontal opposition to the military-industrial complex rather than its transcendent, voluntary metamorphosis into a globally benevolent yet very profitable peace-industrial complex.\n\nIn 1986 Keith D. Suter defended his Ph.D dissertation on \"Creating the political will necessary for achieving multilateral disarmament : the need for a peace-industrial complex\", which was further cited in 1995. The concept of a Peace–industrial complex had already been introduced as early as in 1969 in the U.S. Senate Committee on Government Operations. The original quote affirmed direct opposition to the military-industrial complex and was therefore not transcendent in nature: \"It is time for the United States to break the Huge military-industrial complex and begin in its stead a people and peace-industrial complex\". It received further citation throughout the 1970s. The notion appeared in the 'United States Congress House Committee on Science and Astronautics, Subcommittee on Science, Research, and Development' in 1972 in a congressional address by US Rep. J.F. Seiberling (1972)\n\nSuter further defended that \"each country create a national Ministry for Peace\", which was contemporary to the creation of the Ministry for Peace Australia (MFPA) initiative and the Global Alliance for Ministries & Infrastructures for Peace (GAMIP). An Education for a Peace Industrial Complex conference (EPIC) is also mentioned in a 1984 issue of the Nuclear Times.\n\nIf Kofi J. Roberts explicitly called for the substitution of a military-industrial complex by a peace industrial complex which would enable the focusing of federal spendings on construction rather than destruction, Idriss J. Aberkane further defended the transcendent approach to the peace-industrial complex by calling it the \"military-industrial complex 2.0\" and thus neither the enemy nor the political complement to the military industrial complex but rather its natural, inevitable evolution on the account that investors (either institutional or private) will inevitably realize the larger profitability of construction over destruction. Aberkane also advocates the political viability of a peace-industrial complex by declaring that in the 21st century, what he calls \"weapons of mass construction\" will grant much larger political leverage, leadership and soft power than weapons of mass destruction.\n"}
{"id": "3583396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3583396", "title": "Penny sit-up", "text": "Penny sit-up\n\nThe penny sit-up was a Victorian era term to describe one of the first homeless shelters to be created for the people of Blackfriars, in central London. It was operated by the Salvation Army during the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century in order to provide comfort and support to its destitute clients. What made this shelter unique was that in exchange for a penny, clients would be allowed to sit on a bench in a reasonably warm room all night long. Moreover, they were not allowed to lie down and sleep on the bench.\nA penny sit-up was the cheapest homeless shelter at that time. There were more expensive homeless shelters available in London, such as a \"four penny coffin\".\n\nBy today's standards this shelter at Blackfriars would be considered inadequate and callous toward these individuals. However, at the time this was considered a well-meaning, inexpensive, and compassionate attempt to deal with the relatively new phenomenon of homelessness. The Salvation Army believed these shelters provided relief from the harsh London winters and provided new devoted followers to the Christian faith. Others, such as Professor Howard Sercombe of the University of Strathclyde have argued that such institutions were more likely to have been designed in order to control the homeless, or at the very best - a compassionate response to the harsh \"moving on\" laws of the time, which made it illegal for people to remain vagrantly upon the streets.\n"}
{"id": "575948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=575948", "title": "Pierre Verger", "text": "Pierre Verger\n\nPierre Edouard Leopold Verger, alias Fatumbi or Fátúmbí (4 November 1902, in Paris – 11 February 1996, in Salvador, Brazil) was a photographer, self-taught ethnographer, and \"babalawo\" (Yoruba priest of Ifa) who devoted most of his life to the study of the African diaspora — the slave trade, the African-based religions of the new world, and the resulting cultural and economical flows from and to Africa.\n\nAt the age of 30, after losing his family, Pierre Verger took up the career of journalistic photographer. Over the next 15 years, he traveled the four continents, documenting many civilizations that would soon be effaced by progress. His destinations included Tahiti (1933); United States, Japan, and China (1934 and 1937); Italy, Spain, Sudan (now Mali), Niger, Upper Volta, Togo and Dahomey (now Benin, 1935); the West Indies (1936); Mexico (1937, 1939, and 1957); the Philippines and Indochina (now Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam, 1938); Guatemala and Ecuador (1939); Senegal (as a conscript, 1940); Argentina (1941), Peru and Bolivia (1942 and 1946); and finally Brazil (1946). His photographs were featured in magazines such as Paris-Soir, Daily Mirror (under the pseudonym of \"Mr. Lensman\"), \"Life\", and \"Paris Match\", and in 1955 his graphic composition of three women bearing vases of flowers on turbaned heads was selected by curator Edward Steichen for MoMA's 1955 world-touring \"The Family of Man\" exhibition, seen by 9 million visitors. \n\nIn the city of Salvador, Brazil he fell in love with the place and people, and decided to stay for good. Having become interested in the local history and culture, he turned from errant photographer to a researcher of the African diaspora in the Americas. His subsequent voyages are focused on that goal: the west coast of Africa and Paramaribo (1948), Haiti (1949), and Cuba (1957). After studying the Yoruba culture and its influences in Brazil, Verger became an initiate of the Candomblé religion, and officiated at its rituals. During a visit to Benin, he was initiated into Ifá (cowrie-shell divination), became a \"babalawo\" (priest) of Orunmila, and was renamed \"Fátúmbí\" (\"he who is reborn through the Ifá oracle\").\n\nVeger's contributions to ethnography are embodied in dozens of conference papers, journal articles and books, and were recognized by Sorbonne University, which conferred upon him a doctoral degree (\"Docteur 3eme Cycle\") in 1966 — quite a feat for someone who dropped out of high school at 17.\n\nVerger continued to study and document his chosen subject right until his death in Salvador, at the age of 93. During that time he became a professor at the Federal University of Bahia in 1973, where he was responsible for the establishment of the Afro-Brazilian Museum in Salvador; and served as visiting professor at the University of Ifé in Nigeria. The non-profit in Salvador, which he established to continue his work, holds more than 63,000 photos and negatives taken until 1973, as well as his papers and correspondence.\n\nHis life has been documented in a book by Jérôme Souty and a movie.\n\n"}
{"id": "44191399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44191399", "title": "Polygamy in Sierra Leone", "text": "Polygamy in Sierra Leone\n\nPolygamy is prohibited under Sierra Leone’s Penal Code. Polygamy is authorised in customary marriages, where a man can take as many wives as he wishes.\n\n37 percent of married women in Sierra Leone were in polygamous marriages in 2008. 29.7% of married girls aged 15-19 reported that their husband had more than one wife.\n"}
{"id": "34144682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34144682", "title": "Prince of Brazil (Brazil)", "text": "Prince of Brazil (Brazil)\n\nPrince of Brazil (feminine: Princess of Brazil; Portuguese: \"Príncipe do Brasil\"; feminine: \"Princesa do Brasil\") was an imperial title of the Empire of Brazil, granted to the sons or daughters of the Emperor and other dynasts of the imperial family who were not the heir apparent or heir presumptive to the throne. It was also used to denote a grandson or granddaughter in the male line of a reigning monarch, with some exceptions.\n\nA Prince or Princess of Brazil was usually entitled to the style of \"Highness\", except for the Prince/ss Imperial and Prince of Grão-Pará, who were addressed as \"Imperial Highness\". Princes or Princesses who bore additional titles of higher standing would be addressed with the style linked with the highest title they possessed. Since the agreement between the French House of Orléans and the Brazilian House of Orléans-Braganza in 1909, Brazilian princes in the line of succession to the former French throne bear the title of \"Prince of Orléans-Braganza\" with the style of \"Royal Highness\". Those Princes with higher Brazilian titles may be addressed with the style linked with those titles, in conjunction with their French royal titles and styles; for instance, \"His Imperial and Royal Highness\" Prince Luiz of Orléans-Braganza.\n\nA Prince or Princess of Brazil would receive financial assistance from birth until death, unless they married a foreign-born spouse or moved out of the country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35448984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35448984", "title": "Prostitution in East Timor", "text": "Prostitution in East Timor\n\nProstitution in East Timor is legal, but soliciting and third party involvement for profit or to facilitate prostitution is forbidden. Prostitution has become a problem since the country gained independence from Indonesia, especially in the capital, Dili. There are estimated to be 1,688 sex workers in the country.\n\nLaw enforcement is weak, but there are occasional clampdowns. Foreign sex workers are usually targeted, and are often deported. Public order laws are also used against prostitutes.\n\nMany of the local prostitutes have entered the sex trade due to poverty and lack of other employment. Foreign prostitutes, especially from Indonesia, China and the Philippines, enter the country on 90-day tourists visas.\n\nSex trafficking and Child prostitution are problems in the country.\n\nPrior to its departure in 2012, the UN peacekeeping force's UNPOL division assisted the police, including taking part in prostitution raids. However, despite a zero-tolerance policy towards UN personnel using prostitutes, the UN personnel were also a large client group of the prostitutes. It was alleged they frequented brothels, including those using trafficked women. UN vehicles were used to pick up street prostitutes. \n\nThere were also allegations that a ship chartered by the UN was being used to traffic children for prostitution in the country.\n\nEast Timor is a source and destination country for women, and children subjected to sex trafficking. Timorese women, girls, and occasionally young men and boys from rural areas are led to the capital with the promise of better employment or education prospects and are subjected to sex trafficking; there are reports of official complicity in these practices. Foreign women, including those from Cambodia, China, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Vietnam, are vulnerable to sex trafficking in East Timor. Transnational traffickers may be members of Indonesian or Chinese organised crime syndicates, and they appear to rotate foreign victims of sex trafficking in and out of the country for the length of a 90-day tourist visa in order to avoid raising suspicions or calling attention to the crime through visa overstay violations. Police accept bribes from establishments involved in trafficking or from traffickers attempting to cross borders illegally, and in prior years have been identified as clients of commercial sex venues investigated for suspected trafficking.\n\nAccording to immigration officials, police, and media sources, foreign women in prostitution, many of whom were possible victims of sex trafficking, were sometimes detained en masse during law enforcement raids and then deported without proper screening, or as a result of arresting officers’ inability to derive pertinent information from the women due to their having been coached to provide identical accounts. For this reason, PNTL officers claimed they were not able to obtain sufficient evidence to prosecute the owners of a karaoke bar who may have subjected 67 foreign women to sex trafficking during the reporting period. The PNTL reported karaoke bar owners confiscated the passports of foreign workers and only surrendered them if the police ordered the foreign workers’ deportation.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks East Timor as a 'Tier 2' country.\n"}
{"id": "39474331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39474331", "title": "R v Zikalala", "text": "R v Zikalala\n\nRex v Zikalala is an important case in South African criminal law, heard on February 27, 1953. Zikalala, the appellant, had been charged and convicted of the culpable homicide in causing the death of one Alpheus Tsele. On appeal to the Appellate Division, he successfully argued self-defence.\n\nZikalala had been convicted of culpable homicide on a charge of murder. It appeared, however, that the trial court had found that the evidence for the defence might reasonably be substantially true.\n\nThe Appellate Division set the conviction. The trial court, it held, should have had, on the basis of finding that the evidence for the defence might reasonably be substantially true, and in the light of the circumstances and considerations reflected in the evidence, a reasonable doubt as to whether the Crown had established that the appellant had not killed the deceased lawfully in private-defence.\n\nThe court endorsed the following propositions from Gardiner and Lansdown, based on authority:\n\nWhere a man can save himself by flight, he should flee rather than kill his assailant [...]. But no one can be expected to take to flight to avoid an attack, if flight does not afford him a safe way of escape. A man is not bound to expose himself to the risk of a stab in the back, when by killing his assailant he can secure his own safety [...]. In considering the question of self-defence, a jury must endeavour to imagine itself in the position in which the accused was.\n\nFor the court \"a quo\", it was \"difficult to understand why the accused didn't cry out for help and why the other people there did not overpower the deceased.\" This observation, held Van den Heever JA for the Appellate Division, was\n\nbased on general knowledge of human reactions and not on the evidence. One knows from experience in trial cases that natives are apt to take up the attitude \"that is their business\", and that the principal actors in such a scene are apt to resent the interference of outsiders. In any event, nobody is ambitious to overpower an aggressor armed with a lethal weapon.\n\nThe court \"a quo\" also said it had \"great difficulty in this case in holding that the accused could not get away and that he did not have a reasonable chance to get away if he wanted to.\" Van den Heever JA, responding to this, noted that the hall in which the murder had occurred\n\nwas packed and that movement therein was difficult. But the observation places a risk upon the appellant that he was not obliged to bear. He was not called upon to stake his life upon \"a reasonable chance to get away\". If he had done so he may well have figured as the deceased at the trial, instead of as the accused person. Moreover, one must not impute to a person who suddenly becomes the object of a murderous attack that mental calm and ability to reason out \"ex post facto\" ways of avoiding the assault without having recourse to violence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010174", "title": "Race and crime in the United States", "text": "Race and crime in the United States\n\nThe relationship between race and crime in the United States has been a topic of public controversy and scholarly debate for more than a century. The rate at which crime is committed varies greatly between racial groups. While most homicides in the United States are intraracial—the perpetrator and victim are of the same race—the rates at which African Americans (blacks) both commit and are the victim of homicide is about six to eight times higher than that of white Americans. The incarceration rate of blacks is more than three times higher than their representation in the general population. Research shows that the overrepresentation of some minorities in the criminal justice system can be explained by socioeconomic factors as well as racial discrimination by law enforcement and the judicial system.\n\nIn the United States, crime data are collected from three major sources:\n\n\nThe Uniform Crime Reports represent the primary source of data used in the calculation of official statistics regarding serious crimes such as murder and homicide, which is supplemented by the information provided through the NCVS and self-report studies, the latter being the best indicator of actual crime rates for minor offenses such as illegal substance abuse and petty theft. These crime data collection programs provide most of the statistical information utilized by criminologists and sociologists in their analysis of crime and the extent of its relationship to race. Another form of data is that regarding the prison population.\n\nEstablished in 1927, the Uniform Crime Reports (UCR) program is a summary-based reporting system that collects data on crime reported to local and state law enforcement agencies across the US. The UCR system indexes crimes under two headings: Part I and Part II offenses. Part I offenses include: murder and non-negligent homicide; non-lethal violent crimes comprising robbery, forcible rape and aggravated assault; and property crimes comprising burglary, larceny/theft, motor vehicle theft and arson. Part II offenses include fraud, forgery/counterfeiting, embezzlement, simple assault, sex offenses, offenses against the family, drug and liquor offenses, weapons offenses and other non-violent offenses excluding traffic violations.\n\nThere are fundamental limitations of the UCR system, including:\n\nAs a response to these and other limitations, a new system of crime data collection was established in 1988 as an outgrowth of the UCR system. The National Incident Based Reporting System (NIBRS) is an incident-based reporting system that will collect more comprehensive and detailed data on crime from local, state and federal law enforcement agencies. As it is still under development, NIBRS coverage is not yet nationwide.\n\nThe National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) program, established in 1972, is a national survey of a representative sample of households in the United States which covers the frequency of crime victimization and the characteristics and consequences of victimization. The primary purpose behind the NCVS program is to gather information on crimes that were not reported to police, though information is also collected on reported crimes. The survey collects data on rape, assault, robbery, burglary, personal and household larceny and motor vehicle theft. The NCVS also includes supplemental questions which allow information to be gathered on tangentially relevant issues such as school violence, attitudes towards law enforcement or perceptions regarding crime.\n\nThere are fundamental limitations to the NCVS program, including:\n\n\nAccording to the NCVS for 1992–2000, 43% of violent criminal acts, and 53% of serious violent crime (not verbal threats, or cuts and bruises) were reported to the police. Overall, black (49%) and Native Americans (48%) victims reported most often, higher than whites (42%) and Asians (40%). Serious violent crime and aggravated assault against blacks (58% and 61%) and Native Americans (55% and 59%) was reported more often than against whites (51% and 54%) or Asians (50% and 51%). Native Americans were unusually unlikely to report a robbery (45%), as with Asians and a simple assault (31%).\n\nDespite the differences in the amount of crime reported, comparisons of the UCR and NCVS data sets show there to be a high degree of correspondence between the two systems. This correspondence extends to the racial demography of both perpetrators and victims of violent crime reported in both systems.\n\nThe UCR classifies most Hispanics into the \"white\" category. The NCVS classifies some Hispanic criminals as \"white\" and some as \"other race\". The victim categories for the NCVS are more distinct.\n\nAccording to a report by the National Council of La Raza, research obstacles undermine the census of Latinos in prison, and \"Latinos in the criminal justice system are seriously undercounted. The true extent of the overrepresentation of Latinos in the system probably is significantly greater than researchers have been able to document. Lack of empirical data on Latinos is partially due to prisons' failures to document race at intake, or recording practices that historically have classified Latinos as white.\n\nOverall the FBI didn't include a 'Latino' or 'Hispanic' category until recently and 93% of Hispanics are classified as \"white\" by law enforcement officers (irrespective of their ancestry) often inflating actual white criminal statistics.\n\nThere is general agreement in the literature that blacks are more likely to commit violent crimes than are whites in the United States. Whether this is the case for less serious crimes is less clear.\n\nAccording to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, blacks accounted for 39.4% of the prison and jail population in 2009, while non-Hispanic whites were 34.2%, and Hispanics (of any race) 20.6%. The incarceration rate of black males was over six times higher than that of white males, with a rate of 4,749 per 100,000 US residents.\n\nAccording to the 2010 US Census, Hispanics constituted 16.3% of the US population. According to the BJS, the black incarceration rate in state and federal prisons declined to 3,161 per 100,000 and the white incarceration rate slightly increased to 487 per 100,000. In 2009, Native Americans and Alaskan Natives were jailed, paroled, or on probation at 932 per 100,000, 25% higher than for non-Natives (747), up 5.6% that year and 12% higher than 2007. However, crime in general declined during this time down to near 1970 levels, an 18% decrease from the previous decade.\n\nAccording to a 2013 study conducted by the Pew Research Center, black men were six times as likely as white men to be incarcerated in 2010. The incarceration rates of each race varied from state to state. Oklahoma was shown to have the highest incarceration rates of black people with 2,625 black inmates per 100,000 residents. New Jersey also had high rates with 12.2 black people for every white person in its prison system. Hawaii had the lowest incarceration rates.\n\nA 2011 study which examined violent crime trends between 1980 and 2008 found that racial imbalances between arrest and incarceration levels were both small and comparably sized across the study period.The authors argued that the prior studies had been confounded by not separating Hispanics from Whites.<ref name=\"doi10.1111/j.1745-9125.2010.00222.x\"></ref> Another recent study in 2012 raises a different concern, showing that Hispanics and blacks receive considerably longer sentences for the same or lesser offenses on average than white offenders with equal or greater criminal records.\n\nA 2012 University of Michigan Law School study found that African Americans are given longer federal sentences even when factoring prior criminal records, and that African American jail sentences tend to be roughly 10% longer than white jail sentences for the same crimes. The study found that federal prosecutors of African American and Hispanic defendants are almost twice as likely to push for mandatory minimum sentences, leading to longer sentences and disparities in incarceration rates for federal offenses.\n\nAccording to the US Census Bureau as of the year 2000, there were 2,224,181 blacks enrolled in college. In that same year, there were 610,300 black inmates in prison according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. The results are highly correlated with education. 30 percent of those without college education and nearly 60 percent of high school dropouts had prison records.\n\nThe probability of arrest given the commission of a crime is higher for whites than it is for blacks for robbery, aggravated assault, and simple assault, whereas for rape the probability of arrest is approximately equal across offender race. The disparity in arrest rate between criminals who are white and black (and presumably other races) is an interesting fact. On the one hand, it suggests that the over-representation of blacks in the criminal justice system is not consistent with the interpretation that black criminals are more likely to be targeted for arrest. On the other hand, the differential arrest rate may indicate disparities in allocation of police resources, with fewer resources being devoted to solving crimes in predominantly black neighborhoods. In other words, statistics on race and crime may be difficult to interpret without controlling for correlations between poverty and race, and poverty and crime.\n\nAccording to a 2001 study, Hispanics and blacks receive an average sentencing of 54.1 and 64.1 months, respectively, while whites receive an average of 32.1 months. 77,236 offenders, sentenced under the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, were evaluated to control for extraneous variables other than race, but these findings remain relevant despite the fact that the offenders committed the same offense and received sentencing from the same district court. This finding is consistent across jurisdictions in multiple states within the U.S., and direct discrimination was found to be more prominent at the federal level. There are many theorists who attempt to explain why these disparities exist. Racial stereotypes and related factors such as socioeconomic status may influence the court's perception of the individual as well as its decision-making. For instance, judges may perceive minority defendants as unable to afford fines or probation fees. Consequently, they resort to jail term as opposed to community corrections sentence.\n\nA 2014 study revealed that judges subconsciously utilize the assumption that minorities are more likely to recidivate to issue a longer sentencing that will prevent the defendants from reengaging in criminal offenses. Additionally, theorists advocate that minorities are stereotypically identified as more violent and guilty than whites. This perception encourages judges to believe that they are preventing the onset of future crimes by imprisoning the defendants for a longer duration. This preconception that minorities are unable to economically support themselves warns the judicial system that they are more likely to resort to criminal activity in order to gain access to money or other objectives. Because these characteristics are less associated with white offenders, judges unintentionally treat the two differently. The short amount of time that judges share with defendants in court is insufficient in establishing an objective understanding. As a result, judges may unconsciously utilize the factors that they are given, such as the color of the skin, to construct an impression. Prejudgments on the basis of race influence perception of responsibility and threat to the society.\n\nSome studies have argued for smaller racial disparities in violent crime in recent times. However, a study of government data from 1980–2008 found that the reduction in Black violent crime relative to White violent crime was an artifact of those previous studies, which was due to Hispanic offenders being counted as White in the comparison. The Hispanic population has been increasing rapidly and Hispanics have violence rates higher than that of Whites but lower than that of Blacks.\n\nAccording to the US Department of Justice, African Americans accounted for 52.5% of all homicide offenders from 1980 to 2008, with European Americans 45.3% and \"Other\" 2.2%. The offending rate for African Americans was almost 8 times higher than European Americans, and the victim rate 6 times higher. Most homicides were intraracial, with 84% of European Americans victims killed by European Americans, and 93% of African Americans victims were killed by African Americans.\n\nIn 2013, number and percentage of murder arrests by race were: \n\nInversely, the percentage of individuals in each racial demographic arrested for murder in 2013 (with 2016 population estimates) was:\n\nThe \"National Youth Gang Survey Analysis\" (2011) state that of gang members, 46% are Hispanic/Latino, 35% are black, 11.5% are white, and 7% are other race/ethnicity.\n\nAccording to the FBI Uniform Crime Reports, in the year 2008 black youths, who make up 16% of the youth population, accounted for 52% of juvenile violent crime arrests, including 58.5% of youth arrests for homicide and 67% for robbery. Black youths were overrepresented in all offense categories except DUI, liquor laws and drunkenness.\n\nAccording to the National Crime Victimization Survey in 2002, the black arrest rate for robbery was 8.55 times higher than whites, and blacks were 16 times more likely to be incarcerated for robbery than non-Hispanic whites. Robberies with white victims and black offenders were more than 12 times more common than vice versa.\n\nIn 1978, Michael Hindelang compared data from the National Crime Victimization Survey (then known as the National Crime Survey, or NCS) to data from the Uniform Crime Reports, both from 1974. He found that NCS data generally agreed with UCR data in regards to the percent of perpetrators of rape, robbery, and assault who were black. For instance, Hindelang's analysis found that both the NCS and UCR estimated that 62% of robbery offenders were black in the United States in 1974. A 2004 National Crime Victimization Survey report which analyzed carjacking over 10 years found that carjacking victims identified 56% of offenders as black, 21% as white, and 16% as Native American or Asian.\n\nAccording to a 2009 report by the Pew Hispanic Center, in 2007 Latinos \"accounted for 40% of all sentenced federal offenders-more than triple their share (13%) of the total U.S. adult population\". This was an increase from 24% in 1991. Between 1991 and 2007, enforcement of federal immigration laws became a growing priority in response to undocumented immigration. By 2007, among Hispanic offenders sentenced in federal courts, 48% were\nimmigration offenses, 37% drug offenses, and 15% for other offenses. One reason for the large increase in immigration offenses is that they exclusively fall under federal jurisdiction.\n\nThe federal government publishes a list annually of Hate Crime Statistics, 2009.\nAlso published by the federal government is the Known Offender's Race by Bias Motivation, 2009. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation Uniform Crime Report database, in 2010 58.6% of reported hate crime offenders were white, 18.4% of offenders were black, 8.9% were of individuals of multiple races and 1% of offenders were Native Americans. The report also reveals that 48% of all hate crime offenders were motivated by the victim's race, while 18% were based on the victim's religion, and another 18% were based on the victim's sexual orientation. The report states that among hate crime offenses motivated by race, 70% were composed of anti-black bias, while 17.7% were of anti-white bias, and 5% were of anti-Asian or Pacific Islander bias.\n\nStudies have examined that ethnic/racially heterogeneous areas, most often neighborhoods in large cities, have higher crime rates than more homogeneous areas. Most studies find that the more ethnically/racially heterogeneous an area is, the higher its crime rates tend to be.\n\nStudies examining the relationship between percentages of different races in an area and crime rates have generally either found similar relationships as for nationwide crime rates or no significant relationships. Most often studied are correlations between black and Hispanic populations in a given area and crime. Such data may reveal a possible connection, but is functionally inconclusive due to a variety of other correlating factors which overlap with race and ethnicity.\n\nWhile there is a correlation between blacks and Hispanics and crime, the data imply a much stronger tie between poverty and crime than crime and any racial group, when gender is taken into consideration. The direct correlation between crime and class, when factoring for race alone, is relatively weak. When gender, and familial history are factored, class correlates more strongly with crime than race or ethnicity. Studies indicate that areas with low socioeconomic status may have the greatest correlation of crime with young and adult males, regardless of racial composition, though its effect on females is negligible. A 1996 study looking at data from Columbus, Ohio found that differences in disadvantage in city neighborhoods explained the vast majority of the difference in crime rates between blacks and whites, and two 2003 studies looking at violent offending among juveniles reached similar conclusions.\n\nResearch suggests that police practices, such as racial profiling, over-policing in areas populated by minorities and in-group bias may result in disproportionately high numbers of racial minorities among crime suspects. Research also shows that there is discrimination by the judicial system, which contributes to a higher number of convictions and harsher sentencing for racial minorities. A 2012 study found that \"(i) juries formed from all-white jury pools convict black defendants significantly (16 percentage points) more often than white defendants, and (ii) this gap in conviction rates is entirely eliminated when the jury pool includes at least one black member.\" Research has found evidence of in-group bias, where \"black (white) juveniles who are randomly assigned to black (white) judges are more likely to get incarcerated (as opposed to being placed on probation), and they receive longer sentences.\" In-group bias has also been observed when it comes to traffic citations, as black and white cops are more likely to cite out-groups. A 2018 paper by Alma Cohen and Crystal Yang of Harvard Law School found that \"that Republican-appointed judges give substantially longer prison sentences to black offenders versus observably similar non-black offenders compared to Democratic-appointed judges within the same district court.\" A 2018 study in the \"Quarterly Journal of Economics\" found that bail judges in Miami and Philadelphia were racially biased against black defendants, as white defendants had higher rates of pretrial misconduct than black defendants.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Journal of Public Health\" found that black and Hispanic men were far more likely to be killed by police than white men. A 2016 paper by Roland G. Fryer, Jr, found no racial bias in lethal use of police force when comparing similar situations, but found that black and Hispanic suspects were significantly more likely to experience non-lethal use of force. A report by the Department of Justice concluded that police officers in Baltimore, Maryland systemically stop, search (in some cases strip-search) and harass black residents, while another DOJ report on Ferguson, Missouri found African Americans are severely disproportionately affected at \"nearly every aspect of Ferguson’s law enforcement system\". A January 2017 report by the DOJ found that the Chicago Police Department had \"unconstitutionally engaged in a pattern of excessive force\" and an independent task force created by the mayor said that police \"have no regard for the sanctity of life when it comes to people of color\".\n\nA 2007 paper by Jennifer Hochschild concluded that in criminal sentencing, medium to dark-skinned African Americans are likely to receive sentences 2.6 years longer than those of whites or light-skinned African Americans. When a white victim is involved, the report found that those with more \"black\" features are likely to receive a much more severe punishment.\n\nA 2013 report by the American Civil Liberties Union found that blacks were \"3.73 times more likely than whites to be arrested for marijuana possession\", even though \"blacks and whites use drugs, including marijuana, at similar rates.\"\n\nA 2016 analysis by the \"New York Times\" \"of tens of thousands of disciplinary cases against inmates in 2015, hundreds of pages of internal reports and three years of parole decisions found that racial disparities were embedded in the prison experience in New York.\" Blacks and Latinos were sent more frequently to solitary and held there for longer durations than whites. The New York Times analysis found that the disparities were the greatest for violations where the prison guards had lots of discretion, such as disobeying orders, but smaller for violations that required physical evidence, such as possessing contraband.\n\nA 2016 report by the \"Sarasota Herald-Tribune\" found that Florida judges sentence black defendants to far longer prison sentences than whites with the same background. For the same drug possession crimes, blacks were sentenced to double the time of whites. Blacks were given longer sentences in 60 percent of felony cases, 68 percent of the most serious first-degree crimes, 45 percent of burglary cases and 30 percent of battery cases. For third-degree felonies (the least serious types of felonies in Florida), white judges sentenced blacks to twenty percent more time than whites, whereas black judges gave more balanced sentences. One judge responded by noting that about ninety-eight percent of sentences are the result of plea bargaining and that sentencing is a complicated issue given the various facts involved, thus no two cases can be compared. Some attorneys note that poorer defendants often rely on public defenders who often receive less favorable plea offers than defendants with private counsel because private attorneys have lighter case loads, are less likely to go to trial with prosecutors, and defendants with means are more likely to present mitigating factors.\n\nAnother theory proposes that racial inequality in the American criminal justice system is mostly caused by a racial imbalance in decisions to charge criminal defendants with crimes requiring a mandatory minimum prison sentence, leading to large racial disparities in incarceration.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Economic Journal: Applied Economics\" found that judges gave longer sentences, in particular to black defendants, after their favorite team lost a home game.\n\nResearch shows that childhood exposure to violence significantly increases the likelihood to engage in violent behavior. When studies control for childhood exposure to violence, black and white males are equally likely to engage in violent behavior.\n\nAccording to a 2017 study in the \"Journal of Law and Economics\", \"Higher pretrial detention rates among minority defendants explain 40 percent of the black-white gap in rates of being sentenced to prison and 28 percent of the Hispanic-white gap.\" The majority of individuals held in pretrial detention are being held because they cannot afford to post bail. The individuals in pretrial detention face higher incentives to plead guilty (even if they are innocent) for a number of reasons, which leads to a higher sentencing rates for these individuals.\n\nEvidence supporting the role of structural factors in high black crime rates comes from multiple studies. For example, Robert J. Sampson has reported that most of the reason violent crime rates are so high among blacks originates mainly from unemployment, economic deprivation, and family disorganization. Specifically, he found that \"the scarcity of employed black men increases the prevalence of families headed by females in black communities\" and that the increased prevalence of such families in turn results in family disruption that significantly increases black murder and robbery rates. Sampson et al. and Phillips have reported that at least half of the black-white homicide offending differential is attributable to structural neighborhood factors like parents' marital status and social context. Multiple other studies have found a link between black crime rates and structural factors, such as single-parent families and structural inequality.\n\nHistorically, crime statistics have played a central role in the discussion of the relationship between race and crime in the United States. As they have been designed to record information not only on the kinds of crimes committed, but also on the individuals involved in crime, criminologists and sociologists have and continue to use crime rate statistics to make general statements regarding the racial demographics of crime-related phenomena such as victimization, arrests, prosecutions, convictions, and incarceration. Regardless of their views regarding causation, scholars acknowledge that some racial and ethnic minorities are disproportionately represented in the arrest and victimization reports which are used to compile crime rate statistics. There is, however, a great deal of debate regarding the causes of that disproportionality.\n\nAs noted above, scholars acknowledge that some racial and ethnic minorities, particularly African Americans, are disproportionately represented in the arrest and victimization reports which are used to compile crime rate statistics in the United States. The data from 2008 reveals that black Americans are over-represented in terms of arrests made in virtually all types of crime, with the exceptions of \"driving under the influence\", \"liquor laws\" and hate crime. Overall, black Americans are arrested at 2.6 times the per-capita rate of all other Americans, and this ratio is even higher for murder (6.3 times) and robbery (8.1 times).\n\nThe relationship between race and crime has been an area of study for criminologists since the emergence of anthropological criminology in the late 19th century. Cesare Lombroso, founder of the Italian school of criminology, argued that criminal behavior was the product of biological factors, including race. He was among the first criminologists to claim a direct link between race and crime. This biological perspective, sometimes seen as racist and increasingly unpopular, was criticized by early 20th century scholars, including Frances Kellor, Johan Thorsten Sellin and William Du Bois, who argued that other circumstances, such as social and economic conditions, were the central factors which led to criminal behavior, regardless of race. Du Bois traced the causes of the disproportional representation of Blacks in the criminal justice system back to the improperly handled emancipation of Black slaves in general and the convict leasing program in particular. In 1901, he wrote:\n\nThere are no reliable statistics to which one can safely appeal to measure exactly the growth of crime among the emancipated slaves. About seventy per cent of all prisoners in the South are black; this, however, is in part explained by the fact that accused Negroes are still easily convicted and get long sentences, while whites still continue to escape the penalty of many crimes even among themselves. And yet allowing for all this, there can be no reasonable doubt but that there has arisen in the South since the [civil] war a class of black criminals, loafers, and ne'er-do-wells who are a menace to their fellows, both black and white.\n\nThe debate that ensued remained largely academic until the late 20th century, when the relationship between race and crime became a recognized field of specialized study in criminology. Helen T. Greene, professor of justice administration at Texas Southern University, and Shaun L. Gabbidon, professor of criminal justice at Pennsylvania State University, note that many criminology and criminal justice programs now either require or offer elective courses on the topic of the relationship between race and crime.\n\nSociologist Orlando Patterson has explained these controversies as disputes between liberal and conservative criminologists in which each camp focuses on mutually exclusive aspects of the causal net, with liberals focusing on factors external to the groups in question and conservatives focusing on internal cultural and behavioral factors.\n\nConflict theory is considered \"one of the most popular theoretical frameworks among race and crime scholars\". Rather than one monolithic theory, conflict theory represents a group of closely related theories which operate on a common set of fundamental assumptions. As a general theory of criminal behavior, conflict theory proposes that crime is an inevitable consequence of the conflict which arises between competing groups within society. Such groups can be defined through a number of factors, including class, economic status, religion, language, ethnicity, race or any combination thereof. Further, conflict theory proposes that crime could be largely eliminated if the structure of society were to be changed.\n\nThe form of conflict theory which emphasizes the role of economics, being heavily influenced by the work of Karl Marx and sometimes referred to as Marxist criminology, views crime as a natural response to the inequality arising from the competition inherent in capitalist society. Sociologists and criminologists emphasizing this aspect of social conflict argue that, in a competitive society in which there is an inequality in the distribution of goods, those groups with limited or restricted access to goods will be more likely to turn to crime. Dutch criminologist Willem Adriaan Bonger, one of the first scholars to apply the principles of economic determinism to the issue of crime, argued that such inequality as found in capitalism was ultimately responsible for the manifestation of crime at all levels of society, particularly among the poor. Though this line of thinking has been criticized for requiring the establishment of a utopian socialist society, the notion that the disproportionality observed in minority representation in crime rate statistics could be understood as the result of systematic economic disadvantage found its way into many of the theories developed in subsequent generations.\n\nCulture conflict theory, derived from the pioneering work of sociologist Thorsten Sellin, emphasizes the role of culturally accepted norms of conduct in the formation of cultural groups and the conflicts which arise through their interaction. Culture conflict theory argues that the group with the most power in any society ensures that their values, traditions and behaviors, which Sellin referred to as \"conduct norms\", are those to which all other members of society are forced to conform, and any actions which conflict with the interests of the dominant group are identified as deviant and/or criminal in nature. Sellin's original ideas continued to be developed throughout the 20th century, most notably by George Vold in the 1950s and Austin Turk in the 1960s, and continue to influence the contemporary debate. The recent work of Gregory J. Howard, Joshua D. Freilich and Graeme R. Newman applies culture conflict theory to the issue of immigrant and minority crime around the world. According to their research, while culturally homogeneous groups experience little to no cultural conflict, as all the members share the same set of \"conduct norms\", culturally heterogeneous groups, such as modern industrial nations with large immigrant populations, display heightened competition between sets of cultural norms which, in turn, leads to an increase in violence and crime. Societies which have high levels of cultural diversity in their population, it is claimed, are more likely to have higher rates of violent crime.\n\nAccording to conflict theorists such as Marvin Wolfgang, Hubert Blalock and William Chambliss, the disproportionate representation of racial minorities in crime statistics and in the prison population is the result of race- and class-motivated disparities in arrests, prosecutions and sentencing rather than differences in actual participation in criminal activity, an approach which has also been taken by proponents of critical race theory. This line of argumentation is generally seen as part of a wider approach to race-related issues referred to as the Discrimination Thesis, which assumes that differences in the treatment received by people of minority racial background in a number of public institutions, including the criminal justice, education and health care systems, is the result of overt racial discrimination. Opposed to this view is the Non-Discrimination Thesis, which seeks to defend these institutions from such accusations.\n\nAt the time it was first proposed, conflict theory was considered outside the mainstream of more established criminological theories, such as strain theory, social disorganization theory and differential association theory. Barbara D. Warner, associate professor of criminal justice and police studies at Eastern Kentucky University, notes that conflict theory has been the subject of increasing criticism in recent years. Recent studies claim that, while there may have been real sentencing differences related to non-legal characteristics such as race in the 1960s, sentencing discrimination as described by the conflict theorists at that time no longer exists. Criticism has also pointed to the lack of testability of the general theory. While much research has been done to correlate race, income level and crime \"frequency\", typically of less serious criminal behavior such as theft or larceny, research has shown there to be no significant correlation between race, income level and crime \"seriousness\". Thus, conflict theory encounters difficulties in attempting to account for the high levels of violent crime such as murder, homicide and rape, in minority populations.\n\nStrain theory, which is largely derived from the work of Robert K. Merton in the 1930s and 1940s, argues that social structures within society which lead to inequality and deprivation in segments of its population indirectly encourage those segments to commit crime. According to strain theory, differences in crime rates between races are the result of real differences in behavior, but to be understood as an attempt to alleviate either absolute or relative deprivation and adapt to the existing opportunity structure.\n\nA more recent approach to strain theory was proposed by Steven F. Messner and Richard Rosenfeld in the 1990s. In their version of the theory, which they refer to as institutional anomie theory, Messner and Rosenfeld argue that the dominance of materialistic concerns and measurements of success manifested in the American Dream weakens the effectiveness of informal social control mechanisms and support processes, which encourages economic gain by any means, legal or illegal. In those segments of the population which experience the greatest relative deprivation, therefore, there is readiness to turn to crime to overcome inequality and eliminate relative deprivation.\n\nCritics of strain theory point to its weaknesses when compared with actual criminal behavior patterns. Michael R. Gottfredson and Travis Hirschi argue that strain theory \"misconstrue(s) the nature of the criminal act, supplying it with virtues it does not possess.\" They further point out that, while strain theory suggests that criminals should tend to target people in a more advantageous economic situation than themselves, they more often victimize individuals who live in the same economic circumstances.\n\nMultiple studies have found evidence that Agnew's general strain theory explains much of the difference in crime between blacks and whites.\n\nA 1996 study found a strong association between black-white spatial isolation and rates of black violence, consistent with the hypothesis that segregation is responsible for higher rates of black crime. Multiple other studies have reached similar conclusions. However, correlation does not equal causation, and the disproportionately higher crime rates seen in black communities—as well as the reason for their segregation—can be attributed to a number of underlying symptoms.\n\nSocial disorganization theory proposes that high rates of crime are largely the result of a heterogeneous and impoverished social ecology. Proponents of the theory point to the process of urban decay as a major contributing factor to the breakdown of healthy urban communities which would normally curb the spread of many forms of criminal behavior. The diversity of minority cultures present in poverty-stricken neighborhoods prevents the formation of strong social bonds and leaves inhabitants uninterested in maintaining positive community relationships. This has been observed to increase the likelihood of crime in certain urban areas, which can lead to increased policing and a further breakdown of familial structures as a result of arrests, which, in turn, precipitates more crime. Social disorganization theory has been instrumental in establishing the notion that stable, culturally homogeneous communities have lower rates of delinquency and crime regardless of race.\n\nPhillippia Simmons reports that many of the studies which have investigated intra- and interracial crime seek to explain this through a theory of macrostructural opportunity which states that interracial violence is primarily a function of opportunity and access. According to this theory, intraracial crime rates remain relatively high due to the fact that much of the US remains residentially segregated. She notes that this theory predicts that, if residential areas were more racially integrated, intraracial crime would decrease and interracial crime would increase correspondingly. However, she also notes that not all researchers on the topic of intraracial crime agree with this result, with some pointing to other macrostructural factors, such as income and education, which may negate the effect of race on inter- and intraracial crime.\n\nAnthony Walsh criticizes the attempt to use the macrostructural opportunity model to explain interracial rape as has been done in studies conducted in the past few decades, pointing out that such a defense is directly contradicted by the data related to homicide. Walsh argues that the macrostructural opportunity model helps explain why black murderers almost always choose black victims. There are disparities in rates of reporting rape where victims of some races are statistically less likely or more likely to report their rape, especially depending on the race of the offender. Black women in America are more likely to report sexual assault that has been perpetrated by a stranger. Black women are more likely to under-report rapes overall as they are more likely to blame themselves, feel they will be blamed or feel they won't be believed.\n\nSocial control theory, which is among the most popular theories in criminology, proposes that crime is most commonly perpetrated by individuals who lack strong bonds or connections with their social environment. Based upon Travis Hirschi's \"Causes of Delinquency\" (1969), social bonding theory pioneered the notion that criminologists can gain useful insight into the motives behind criminal behavior by examining what normally motivates individuals to refrain from crime. From this it is argued that, in those segments of the population where such motivation is lacking, crime will be more prevalent. Hirschi was explicit in mentioning that he believed his theory held true across all racial boundaries, and subsequent research - both in the US and abroad - seems to confirm this belief. The core idea of social control theory is elaborated upon in several other theories of causation, particularly social disorganization theory.\n\nAs a theory of criminal behavior, subculture of violence theory claims that certain groups or subcultures exist in society in which violence is viewed as an appropriate response to what, in the context of that subculture, are perceived as threatening situations. Building upon the work of cultural anthropologist Walter B. Miller's focal concerns theory, which focused on the social mechanisms behind delinquency in adolescents, sociologists Marvin Wolfgang and Franco Ferracuti proposed that the disproportionally high rate of crime among African Americans could be explained by their possessing a unique racial subculture in which violence is experienced and perceived in a manner different from that commonly observed in mainstream American culture.\n\nAs to the origins of this subculture of violence among African Americans, sociologists promoting the theory have pointed towards their Southern heritage. As noted in several studies conducted throughout the 1960s and 1970s, there is a traditional North-South discrepancy in the distribution of homicide in the US, regardless of race, and this, it was argued, indicates that lower-class Southern Blacks and Whites share the same subculture of violence.\n\nThe empirical basis for the subculture of violence theory, however, has been described as \"extremely limited and unpersuasive\". Very little has been done to attempt an adequate assessment of supposedly criminogenic subcultural values, and several studies conducted in the late 1970s claimed to falsify the assumptions upon which the subculture of violence theory depends. More recently, scholars have criticized the theory as potentially racist in nature in its implication of one given ethnicity or culture supposedly being less fit for or less worthy of being qualified as \"civilized\", the built-in implication of which in turn would denote stereotypically \"white\" behavior as an objective norm for all societies to follow.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2514136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514136", "title": "Reddy dynasty", "text": "Reddy dynasty\n\nThe Reddy dynasty (1325–1448 CE) was established in southern India by Prolaya Vema Reddy. The region that was ruled by the Reddy dynasty is now part of modern-day coastal and central Andhra Pradesh. Prolaya Vema Reddy was part of the confederation that started a movement against the invading Turkic armies of the Delhi Sultanate in 1323 and succeeded in repulsing them from Warangal.\n\nThe modern castes of Andhra region did not originate until the late stages of the Vijayanagara Empire.\n\nThe fall of the Kakatiya Kingdom in 1323, after being subject to seizes by the Tughlaq dynasty, led to a political vacuum in the Andhras.The Islamic conquerors failed to keep the region under effective control and constant infighting among themselves coupled with the martial abilities of the local Telugu warriors led to the loss of the entire region by 1347.\nWhilst, this led to the rise of the Musunuris and Recharlas in the Telegana regions, the coastal belt saw the rise of a third warrior lineage--the Reddi\"s\" of the Panta clan.\n\nEstablished in about 1325 by Prolaya Vema Reddi,(also known as Komati Vema), his territory extended along the coast to Nellore in the south and Srisailam, in the west. He was succeeded by Anavota Reddi who consolidated the kingdom extensively and established it's capital at Kondavidu in Guntur District.\n\nBy 1395, a second Reddi kingdom was established by a branch of the same lineage, with it's capital in Rajahmundry, East Godavari District.\n\nNone of the Reddi lineages find any mention in Kakatiyan era sources and cannot be exactly traced as to their origins.But, their inscriptions and humble genealogies suggest that they were born out of the late Kakatiya ' military milieu ' and had a continuity with the local Telegu warrior culture.\n\nThe Reddy kings ruled coastal and central Andhra for over a hundred years from 1325 to 1448. At its maximum extent, the Reddy kingdom stretched from Cuttack, Orissa to the north, Kanchi to the south and Srisailam to the west. The initial capital of the kingdom was Addanki. Later, it was moved to Kondavidu and a subsidiary branch was established at Rajahmundry. The Reddys were known for their fortifications. Two major hill forts, one at Kondapalli, 20 km north west of Vijayawada and another at Kondavidu about 30 km west of Guntur stand testimony to the fort building skill of the Reddy kings. The forts of Bellamkonda, Vinukonda and Nagarjunakonda in the Palnadu region were also part of the Reddy kingdom. The dynasty remained in power till the middle of the 15th century. In 1424, Kondavidu was annexed to the Vijayanagara Empire and Rajahmundry was conquered by the Gajapatis some twenty five years alter. The Gajapatis eventually lost control of coastal Andhra after the defeat of Gajapati Prataprudra Deva by Krishna Deva Raya of Vijaynagara. The territories of the Reddy kingdom thus came under the control of the Vijayanagara Empire.\n\nThe Reddy rulers played a prominent part in post-Kakatiyas of Telangana. The Kakatiya empire came to an end in 1323 after the army of the Delhi sultanate invaded Warangal and captured Kakatiya ruler Pratapa Rudra. Warangal fell to the invaders and Ulugh Khan commanded Warangal and Telangana. During this time of foreign invasion and chaos in Telugu country, seeds of revolt were sown by two princes, Annaya Mantri and Kolani Rudradeva. They united the Telugu nobles with the purpose of reclaiming the kingdom. Musunuri Prolaya Nayaka, Prolaya Vema Reddy, Recharla Singama Nayaka, Koppula Prolaya Nayaka and Manchikonda Ganapatinayaka were the prominent nobles. Musunuri Prolaya Nayaka was the chosen leader of this confederation of Telugu nobles who united and vowed to put an end to the Sultanate's rule. They succeeded in repulsing those forces from Warangal and then established independent Kingdoms of their own.\n\nIt was during this chaotic period in Andhra history that Prolaya Vema Reddy established the Reddy kingdom in 1325. The Reddy rulers patronised and protected Hinduism and its institutions. The Brahmins were given liberal grants by the Reddy kings and the agraharas of Brahmins were restored. Vedic studies were encouraged. The Hindu temples of Srisailam and Ahobilam were provided with more facilities. Prolaya Vema Reddy bestowed a number of agraharas on the Brahmins. He was revered by the title of \"Apratima-Bhudana-Parasurama\". He commissioned major repairs to the Srisailam Mallikarjuna Swami temple, and had a flight of steps built from the Krishna river to the temple. The Narasimha Swamy temple at Ahobilam was built during his reign. He built 108 temples for Shiva.\n\nTelugu literature blossomed under the Reddy kings. The Reddy kings also patronized Sanskrit. Several of the Reddy kings themselves were distinguished scholars and authors. Kumaragiri Reddy, Kataya Vema Reddy and Pedakomati Vema Reddy were the most outstanding among them. Errapragada (Errana), Srinatha and Potana were the remarkable poets of this period. Errapragada, the last of the Kavitraya (Trinity of Poets) was the court poet of Prolaya Vema Reddy. He completed the Telugu translation of the Mahabharata. He completed the rendition of the Aranya Parva of Mahabharata left incomplete by Nannaya Bhattu (Aadi Kavi who started the translation of Mahabharata into Telugu). He wrote Hari Vamsa and Narasimha Purana. Errana's translation of the Ramayana in \"Chapu\" form (a style of poetry) has been lost.\n\nThe administration was carried according to the \"Dharmasutras\". One sixth of agriculture surplus was levied as tax. Under the reign of Anavota Reddy custom duties and taxes on trade were lifted. As a result, trade flourished. Sea trade was carried through the port Motupalli. Large number of merchants settled down near it. Celebrating 'Vasantotsavalu' was revived during the rule of Anavema Reddy. The Brahmins were given liberal grants by the Reddy kings. Caste system was observed. Heavy taxes by Racha Vema Reddy made him highly unpopular.\n\n"}
{"id": "1763382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1763382", "title": "Rosalind Miles", "text": "Rosalind Miles\n\nRosalind Miles (born Rosalind Mary Simpson on January 6, 1943) is an English author, who has written 23 works of fiction and non-fiction. She has two grown children, and is married to the historian Robin Cross.\n\nShe was born in Warwickshire, the youngest of three sisters. As a child, Miles suffered from polio, which she acquired at the age of four. Due to it, she had to undergo several months of treatment. From the age of ten, Miles attended the King Edward VI High School for Girls, where she obtained a working knowledge of Latin and Greek, along with a lifelong love of Shakespeare. At seventeen, she was accepted at St Hilda's College, Oxford, where she studied English literature, Anglo-Saxon, Middle English, Latin and French. There, she was awarded the Eleanor Rooke Memorial Prize, the Principal's Prize of St Hilda's College, as well as a State Studentship Award. She obtained five degrees in all, including an MA and Ph.D. from the Shakespeare Institute at the University of Birmingham, as well a starred MA* from the Centre for Mass Communication Research at the University of Leicester.\n\nAlongside her studies, Miles worked numerous jobs, including working as a travelling saleswoman and a stable hand. She got her first job, in plastics factory, at the age of 13. Miles later became interested in jurisprudence, which resulted in her appointment at the age of 26 as a lay magistrate in the Warwickshire criminal and family courts, and eventually on the bench in a superior court in Coventry. She served for ten years, and rose to the level of Crown Court. Miles has also worked with numerous government agencies and served on consultative committees.\n\nIn addition to novelist, Miles is also a journalist and broadcaster. She began her broadcasting career on the BBC, for which she is now a regular commentator. She also broadcasts on Canadian radio, as well as numerous local radio stations. She has made many television appearances as a historian and commentator, including on CNN, PBS, and CBS. As a journalist, her work has appeared in major newspapers across the English-speaking world, including The Washington Post. Miles is also a major contributor to a number of magazines, including Working Woman UK, Prospect and Cosmopolitan.\n\nWith Robin Cross:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28714548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28714548", "title": "Sangu language (Gabon)", "text": "Sangu language (Gabon)\n\nSangu (also spelled Chango, Isangu, Shango, Yisangou, and Yisangu) is a language spoken in Gabon by approximately 20,900 (2000) \"Masangu\" people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52975313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52975313", "title": "Seizure of Bulgaria's Corpbank", "text": "Seizure of Bulgaria's Corpbank\n\nIn June 2014, a run on Bulgaria’s Corporate Commercial Bank (Corpbank) brought down the bank, the country’s fourth largest. It was closed down by the country’s central banking system, the Bulgarian National Bank, and had ripple effects throughout Bulgaria’s economy. As a result, international investors are wary of making investments in the country. Corpbank’s owner, Tzvetan Vassilev, fled the country after being charged with embezzlement.\n\nIn 2013 Forbes named Tzvetan Vassilev the \"most influential Bulgarian.\" Vassilev owned 100% of the shares of a finance house called Bromak EOOD. Until the government takeover of Corpbank, he was the majority shareholder of Corpbank. The bank controlled other companies which employed over 16,000 people.. In 2014 this whole story turned into a nightmare for thousands depositors who had the bad luck to invest into Corpbank. Following a bank run in June 2014, which some say that was artificially induced, but all the following probes and revisions showed that the bank was embezzled by its majority owner Tzvetan Vassilev Reuters reported, it requested special supervision by the Bulgarian National Bank. Its license was subsequently withdrawn in November 2014. The chairman of the bank's supervisory board and majority shareholder, Tsvetan Vasilev, fled the country and as of now is being sued in Bulgaria for syphoning off Corpbank and embezzling more than 2 bln leva. He is also being investigated in Serbia for deliberate bancruptcy of a glass factory financed by Corpbank. There are investigations against him in two more countries on allegations of money laundry - in Switzerland and in Luxemberg where the case is frozen till the proceedings in Bulgaria end. \n\nUntil 2014, Vassilev and Delyan Peevski, the owner of a vast network of media entities, were friends. Corpbank financed some of his business activities. Peevski's business expansion, which was funded by Corpbank, made it so that he controlled around 85% of Bulgarian media.\n\nAt some point, the two men had falling out. Vassilev told Peevski that he would discontinue funding Peevski's business expansion. The relationship became so sour that at one point, each man claimed that the other was trying to murder him.\n\nPeevski retaliated by using his media outlets to spread rumors that Corpbank was financially unstable. His oppnents state that these reports have triggered a bank run (see section: Bank run) that ultimately led to Corpbank's downfall. Yet the first to reveal the truth about Corpbank being turned into financial pyramid by his majority holder were not Peevski's media outlets but his opponent's publications (Ivo Prokoiev) Capital and Dnevnik. Moreover, after the bank run in the third week of June 2014, the administration of the bank asked conservatorship from the Bulgarian National Bank. The Bulgarian National Bank withdrew the bank's license on 6 November 2014.The decision was prompted by the results of a triple probe, ordered by the Bulgarian National Bank and performed by three auditing firms. The probe showed that Corpbank was completely syphoned off and cannot be revived. One year later Bulgaria's Deposit Insurance Fund chose forensic advisory firm AlixPartners to help trace and recover the assets of insolvent Corporate Commercial Bank (Corpbank), Reuters reported here. AlixPartners issued a report which was translated and published after the approval of a new bill, moved by Delyan Peevski and his colleagues from the parliamentary group of DPS. AlixPartners' investigation showed that the bank functioned as a financial pyramid and describes the siphoning off schemes. The company's report showed that Corpbank was siphoned off through large loans to companies related to the majority shareholder Tzvetan Vassilev. More than half of the loans at the value of 2,5 billion BGN were given to companies related to Vassilev. It also showed that the majority shareholder also used the bank for “personal transactions”. 243 corporate clients of the bank had 472 outstanding loans. These loans, according to the auditors, are unlikely to be recovered, because they were given to non-functioning enterprises or had little collateral. The loans were used to settle other loans to CCB or to finance people who were not CCB's clients. The schemes for siphoning off included:Loans to companies without credit history and without resource; loans to borrowers to repay other loans; loans without collateral; loans for working capital; loans for purchase of shares in companies ownership of CCB, Bulgarian National TV reported here. \n\nPeevski grew up with connections; his mother, according to \"The New York Times\", used to head the national lottery empire and is the ultimate leader over Peevski's growing media empire. She has strong connections, both economic and political.\n\nPeevski is both a politician and a businessman. He has long been associated with the political party \"Movement for Rights and Freedoms\" (DPS in Bulgarian). Among the locals, the party is known as the \"Turkish party\" because it promotes the rights of Bulgaria's Turkish minority.\n\nAccording to Forbes, \"Peevski ... is associated with shady dealings going back years: he was briefly investigated for corruption in 2007 but the case was dropped. Because of the scale of his business interests (including those in his mother’s name), he effectively controls large parts of the Bulgarian economy.\"\n\nIn 2013, Bulgarian voters elected Peevski as a Member of Parliament. The Oresharski Government then appointed him as head of the State Security Agency, but removed him from the position after street protests and demands for the government's resignation. Nonetheless, accusations that the government was supporting Bulgarian oligarchs and mobsters continued.\n\n\"Delyan Peevski is simply one of the main tools that the Bulgarian political mafia uses to blackmail Bulgarian business—the visible part of a rather large iceberg of corruption. The political mafia is persistently trying to downgrade what happened to Corpbank to a personal conflict between Mr. Peevski and me, which is utterly untrue. I had a conflict with the political mafia ruling the country, which has been blackmailing and threatening me for many years.\" - Tzvetan Vassilev, Forbes interview (10/5/15)\n\nIn April 2014, associates of the mafia-ruled DPS, one of the most powerful political parties in Bulgaria, asked Vassilev to give them bank assets for free.\n\n\"I was told that Corpbank would be taken down if I did not satisfy their ‘request’,\" Vassilev said. \"I refused…..but I now know that Corpbank’s destruction was planned months before the bank run. The goal was to acquire Corpbank’s most attractive assets at a low price and to eliminate me as an influencer in the socio-economic life of the country.\"\n\nThe bank run started when the prosecution entered the offices of the bank as a result of a fake accusation accompanied by a black PR campaign in the media of Peevski.\n\nFollowing the bank run, Corpbank was closed for nearly six months. During that time, depositors were unable to pull their money out. Bulgaria's deposit insurance fund was not large enough to compensate insured depositors, so Bulgaria needed to raise additional funds. To complicate matters further, the country was without a government from July to October 2014. Therefore, paying the depositors was an impossible task. Reopening the bank was not an option either, since that would simply restart the run. Therefore, the BNB kept the bank \"on ice\".\n\nIn July 2014, the central bank said it was removing Corpbank's banking license and would move the bank's healthy divisions into a separate bank. These events marked the first banking collapse since Bulgaria's 1996-1997 domestic financial crisis.\n\nAccording to Forbes, \"The central bank denied Corpbank liquidity support, forcing it to close its doors. Corpbank’s management asked the central bank to put Corpbank into \"special supervision\", a procedure under which the central bank temporarily takes over a troubled bank in order to put it back on track.\"\n\nShortly after Corpbank’s failure, another bank run happened to a bank called FIBank. The central bank’s response to FIBank’s bank run was much different than its response to Corpbank’s. The central bank gave FIBank plenty of liquidity to protect FIBank’s financial stability, even though it had already allowed the bank to fail. According to Vassilev, this double standard was due to \"the will of the political mafia\".\n\nThe government ultimately brought down Corpbank to remove Vassilev; it protected FIBank to serve political ends.\n\nThe Bulgarian central bank (BNB) accused Corpbank of extensive fraud. Because of this apparent fraud, BNB said that nationalizing Corpbank was not an option. BNB described the extent of the bank's fraud as \"a bottomless barrel\".\n\nThe Deposit Insurance Fund of Bulgaria guaranteed all deposits up to 100,000 euros.\n\nMedia reports say that BNB was aware that it failed to adequately supervise the bank. But more specifically, BNB places blame on one of its officials, the Deputy Head of Banking Supervision. Everyone else on the BNB board was exonerated. \"This does not bode well for the future of bank supervision in Bulgaria,\" Forbes wrote.\n\nBNB also made a specific accusation of fraud against Vassilev in relation to the withdrawing of funds in advance of Corpbank's failure. According to BNB, \"Specifically - according to conservators - on June 19 this year, the day before the Corporate Commercial Bank was to be placed in special measures, a third party downloaded and delivered against receipt to the majority owner of Corporate Commercial Bank 205 887 223 BGN equivalent in cash, mostly Euro.\"\n\nBulgaria was in \"triple breach of EU law regarding treatment of its depositors\":\n\nIn October 2014, following complaints from depositors, the European Commission and European Banking Authority demanded that Bulgaria compensate insured depositors. Bulgaria refused, claiming that under Bulgarian law the bank had to be \"declared insolvent\" before deposit insurance could be paid. Insolvency could only be declared after a full audit, which would take four months to do. In December 2014, the depositors eventually got their funds.\n\nThe shareholders attempted to put a rescue plan together for the bank, but it wasn’t accepted. According to Vassilev, the circumstances surrounding the revocation of the bank's license were suspicious. He and other shareholders, including the Omani Sovereign Wealth Fund (the second-largest shareholder) put forward a rescue plan for the bank. But the parliament dismissed their proposal \"out of hand.\"\n\n\"Even though we made a solid proposal to the Bulgarian state, we were turned away in the most humiliating manner by the central bank and by the ruling government,\" Vassilev said. \"We were simply told that our proposal was \"unserious\" without any clarification on the reasons why they deemed so and without a proper meeting to discuss it.\"\n\nAfter Corpbank’s license was revoked, the bank was forced into insolvency.\n\nThe Omani Sovereign Wealth Fund sued the Bulgarian government in the International Court for Settlement of Investment Disputes, based in Washington, D.C., for rejecting the rescue plan. Omani Sovereign Wealth Fund alleged that the rejection breached key principles regarding equal treatment and protection of investors.\n\nAs of October 2015, Vassilev was accused of embezzlement, although at that time no charges were officially filed. The BNB claimed that he ran a pyramid scheme.\n\nThe Bulgarian’s office fabricated the accusation, Vassilev said, in order to arrest him and use it as an action to block his and his family’s assets.\n\nInitially, the central bank’s governor accused Vassilev of taking 200 million leva in plastic bags from Corpbank’s headquarters during the week of the bank run. Vassilev said he had been traveling abroad that week. He also said, \"200 million takes a lot of space and cannot go unnoticed if you carry it on your back in the middle of Sofia.\" The Bulgarian Prosecutor General modified the charging documents, changing the timeframe of the alleged embezzlement from the week of the bank run to the span of several years.\n\nAdditionally, the accusation was based on the statements of only two witnesses. \"It was already proven in court that one of the witnesses had forged my signature on documents she presented as proof of the alleged crime,\" Vassilev said. \"And some of the senior staff of Corpbank were pressured to testify against me by the prosecution service through the use of threats.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3176426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176426", "title": "Sfakians", "text": "Sfakians\n\nThe Sfakians (or Sphakians or Sfakiots; ) are the inhabitants of the region of Sfakia located in western Crete. The Sfakians hold themselves to be the direct descendants of the Dorians who invaded the island around 1100 BC. The inhabitants of Sfakia have faced numerous foreign invaders, to which fact they owe their reputation as courageous warriors that they have had for centuries as cousins of the Maniots and Souliots.\n\nWhen the Saracen Arabs invaded Crete in 824 AD, many regions of the island, Sphakia included, escaped effective Arab rule. One reason frequently offered is geography: Sphakians, secure in their mountain fastness, could mount a formidable deep defence \"de haut en bas\" (from top to bottom), gradually retreating upward while imposing relatively high casualties on invaders from the lowlands.\n\nIn refusing to submit to the Arabs, the Sfakians established a form of self-government known as the \"Gerousia\" (\"Council of Elders\"); this had its antecedent in the Spartan Gerousia, but it is not clear there is any connection. The members of the council were either known as \"Gerontes\" (\"Elders\") or \"Dimogerontes\" (\"Public Elders\") who were selected based on the general consensus of the members of the entire community (cf. alderman).\n\nNicephorus Phocas, general of the Greek Byzantine forces sent to liberate Crete, appointed large numbers of Sfakian warriors to defend his rear against Arab attacks from the south while he besieged Chandax. Chandax was the key to Phocas's campaign as it was both the most formidable Arab fortress and the capital of Crete under Arab rule.\n\nThe Sfakians not only successfully protected General Phocas's troops, but they also supported him in the siege of Chandax, which fell on March 7, 961 AD, marking the end of Arab rule in Crete. General Phocas was so grateful for the contributions of the Sfakians that he gave the \"Gerontes\" many presents which included weapons and lavish clothing. Moreover, the general allowed the Sfakians the right to continue with their own form of self-government with the added benefit of being exempt from all taxes. Moreover, when General Phocas became the emperor of the Byzantine Empire, he reconfirmed these privileges.\n\nAt the dawn of the second Byzantine period in Crete (961–1204), the island itself was in a state of devastation. Many of the inhabitants were sold to slave markets, the economy was in ruins, and the administrative structure of government had no presence on the island. The Byzantines immediately started to rebuild fortifications on the island in order to guard against future attacks. Also, they placed a new administrative system that divided the island into a number of provinces that appointed their own governors.\n\nA new period of cultural and economic renewal began to emerge in Crete. Christianity in Crete was undergoing a revival thanks to missionaries such as Saint Nikon the Metanoeite (\"The Repenter\") and Saint Ioannis Xenos (\"John the Stranger\"). The local population grew and further assistance was provided by Emperor Alexius I Comnenus. In 1080, the emperor ordered the migration and settlement of Greek Byzantine families in Crete.\n\nEmperor Alexius II Comnenus, grandson of Alexius I Comnenus, issued an imperial order that divided the island into twelve provinces and appointed twelve princes from the Byzantine Empire to govern them. Each prince was known as an \"archondopoulon\" (\"petty lord\"; cp. English baron) and he would arrive with his extended family to settle in the area allocated to him. From this event, a number of great aristocratic families of Crete emerged, some of them still in existence today. The \"archondopoula\" of Crete entailed the families of Kallergis, Skordilis, Melisseni, Varouchi, Mousouri, Vlasti, Hortatzi, and others.\n\nSfakia itself was allocated to the emperor's nephew, Marinos Skordilis, who came to Crete with nine of his brothers who also brought over their sons and families. The borders of Skordilis's territory ranged from Askyfou east to Koustogerako and along the south coast to Agia Roumeli, Omprosgialos (today's Hora Sfakion) and to Frangokastello (the largest town in Skordilis's territory was Anopoli and many Sfakian families today claim to be direct descendants of the original Skordiles).\n\nJohn Phocas, a direct descendant of the emperor who freed Crete from the Arabs, was considered to be the most senior member of the twelve \"archondopoula\". His territory was one of the largest, which covered the greater part of today's province of Rethymno, all the way south to the coast and westward up to the valley of Askyfou, where the border of the Skordilis' territory was located (the name of the family changed a few years later under the Venetians to Kallergis and families that today claim to be direct descendants of the Phocas-Kallergis dynasty are one of the largest family groups in Crete, including a number from Sfakia).\n\nDuring Venetian rule in Crete (1204–1669), the Greek inhabitants of the island rebelled at least twenty-seven times (without counting any of the other smaller local uprisings) particularly during the first decades of Venetian occupation in favor of re-unification with the Byzantines. Some of these revolutions lasted for years and were eventually suppressed by the Venetians with great brutality. Many of these revolutions sprang out of the \"Lefka Ori\" (or \"White Mountains\"), which was a Sfakian stronghold. Many of the revolutionaries were led by members of the \"Archondopouloi\" families, especially members of the Sfakian-based families of Skordilis and Phocas/Kallergis.\n\nThere occurred over fourteen insurrections between 1207 and 1365. The first rebellion in 1212, against Venetian resettlement, was started by the Aghiostephanites or Argyropouli but was quickly quelled by Venice. In 1217, another revolt occurred that was caused by a private dispute over stolen horses between the noble Skordilis and the Venetian Castellan. The revolt spread rapidly, but a treaty was made and signed between a new Duke and the rebels. Another large rebellion occurred in 1230 in the Rethymno area as a result of the gathering of the noble clans of Skordilis, Melisseni, and Drakontopouli. The rebellion went on for six years until Venice conceded much land and many garrisons in order to bring the revolt to an end. Venice, from this point on, had its hands full with Crete.\n\nOver the next few decades starting in 1212, the Venetians began to resettle numerous noble families from Venice in order to acquire better control over Crete. Chandax was renamed Candia (today's Heraklion) and became the seat of the Duke of Candia. The duke was appointed for a two-year term by Venice and the island was known as the \"Regno di Candia\" or the \"Kingdom of Crete.\" In 1252, Chania was built on the ancient city of Kydonia by the Venetians and Crete was divided into six provinces (\"sexteria\"). Eventually, the six provinces became four counties, but Sfakia always remained out of the direct control of the Venetians who maintained only a small garrison at the castle at Omprosgialos (today's Hora Sfakion). The Venetians would rarely venture outside of their castle walls.\n\nIn 1273, the Hortatzi brothers Georgios and Theodore became the leaders of a great rebellion supported by all Cretan archons but of one revealing exception. The revolt lasted for six years and the costs to the Venetians were heavy. However, the Cretan nobleman, Alexios Kallergis, was lured by the promises given to him by the Venetians and he eventually supported them. The Venetian attack against the Hortatzi brothers was decisive and in 1279, the entire rebellion was crushed.\n\nThe Venetians did not keep their promises to Alexios Kallergis and were unfortunately very cruel in their treatment of the Cretan rebels. As a result, Kallergis started one of the largest and most destructive rebellions against the Venetians in 1283. After sixteen years of fighting, the Venetians and Kallergis secretly negotiated an end to the rebellion with numerous concessions made on both sides. In return for the Venetian concessions that entailed the allowing of mixed marriages (in which such a \"privilege\" did not persuade the Sfakians and Cretans to perceive the Venetians any more favorably) and the installation of a Greek bishopric, Kallergis would swear allegiance to Venice.\n\nOne of the major Sfakian revolutions against Venetian rule was the Chrysomallousa Revolution of 1319. The Venetian garrison maintained at Omprosgialos at Sfakia consisted of only fifteen soldiers and an officer. These troops were merely keeping an eye out on the Sfakians, but rarely did they venture outside and they never interfered in Sfakian affairs. Capuleto, the Venetian officer in charge of the garrison, was attracted one day by a young girl at the well of the village. He approached the young girl and kissed her. She slapped Capuleto in the face, but he managed to pull out a dagger and cut some of the girl's golden hair. The girl's name was Chrysi Skordilis and she was from the Archondopoula family of the Skordilises. She was also called \"Chrysomallousa\" (or \"Golden Hair\") due to her blond hair. Upon hearing what happened to Chrysi, her relatives immediately killed the offending Venetian officer and most of the guards. Venetian troops arrived soon from Chania and the locals fought the Venetians bravely throughout the district. The revolution went on for more than a year until Archondas Kallergis intervened and had reached a peace treaty with the Venetians. The peace treaty entailed an agreement for the withdrawal of the Venetian forces from the area and an end to hostilities.\n\nMore rebellions against the Venetians broke out in 1332 in Margarites and in 1341 in Apokoronas. In Amari, Sfakia, Mesara and elsewhere throughout the island, the Cretans succeeded in winning for themselves many new benefits. As a result of the hard tax policy Venice exercised towards its colony, both Cretans and Venetian settlers revolted in 1363. The revolt, which became to be known as the revolt of St. Titus, overthrew official Venetian rule and declared a Cretan Republic under the protection of Saint Titus, Crete's patron saint who had Christianized the island thirteen centuries earlier. A new rebellion occurred in 1365 and it was crushed by Venice to the point where life in Crete was very miserable.\n\nThe Venetians decided to build a castle on the fertile plains east of Sfakia where they intended to place a strong military presence in order to protect Venetian nobles and their properties. This decision was a result of the constant incursions the Venetians were experiencing on the southern coast of Crete from pirates (some of whom were Sfakians). The castle itself would also serve to protect the Venetians from the Sfakians who lived in the mountains north and west of the plains and who were harassing Venetian nobles. In 1371, a Venetian fleet with soldiers and builders arrived on the fertile plain to begin construction on the castle. However, the local Sfakians were against having a castle on their territory. The Sfakians, under the leadership of the six Patsos brothers from the nearby settlement of Patsianos, would destroy every night what the Venetians built during the day. Eventually, the Venetians were forced to bring in additional troops that surrounded the whole area during the whole period that the castle was being built. The Patsos brothers, ready to resume their campaigns against the Venetians, were unfortunately betrayed, arrested and ultimately hanged at the site of the castle. In 1374, the castle was complete, but the Sfakians were not threatened in their stronghold by the Venetian troops who much preferred to be stationed at the castle looking out for pirates instead of trying to establish control over the Sfakians. The castle is now known as Frangokastello.\n\nAnother major Sfakian revolution was known as the \"Ornithopolemos\" (or the \"War of the Chickens\"), which took place in 1470. This revolution was caused by the pressures the Venetians were placing on the Cretans in order to extract additional tax revenues. A new tax was introduced requiring all Cretan families to provide one well-fed chicken every month to the Venetian in charge of their area. As time went by and Cretan families began to multiply, the number of chickens demanded was increasing and arguments began to start about the correct number of chickens that should be given to the Venetian in charge of the area. Some villages started giving eggs rather than chickens on the basis that the Venetians would hatch the eggs themselves. Legal action was taken by the Venetians against the villagers for short payment, as well as against the Sfakians who were refusing to pay the tax altogether. Eventually, the Venetians issued over 10,000 indictments. The Sfakians, in return, compiled a report charging the Venetian authorities of corruption and sent the report to Chania for dispatch to Venice. The authorities at Chania imprisoned the Sfakian who brought the report and as a result, the Sfakians declared a revolution and encouraged the rest of the Cretans to refuse the tax. The revolution lasted for three years and at the end of the fighting, the Venetians agreed to withdraw the tax from the whole island, as well as withdraw all outstanding legal actions.\n\nThere occurred yet another Sfakian revolution, which became a part of Cretan mythology since the publication of a book in 1872 known as \"The Cretan Weddings\" by a Lefkadiot writer and historian named Zambelios. The full historical events have never been proven, but there are Venetian records that substantiate large parts of the overall story. However, the records do not fully explain why the wedding was proposed in the first place and by whom. The name of this major uprising was called Kantanoleon's Revolution and the Cretan Weddings. The protagonists of this revolution were George Kantanoleon (who came from the small village of Koustogerako north of Sougia), his son Petros, Francesco Molino (a Venetian noble from Chania), and Sophia (Molino's daughter). Although Kantanoleon came from Koustogerako, a small village just outside today's province of Sfakia, the village itself was on the border of the Sfakian territory owned by Archondopoulo Skordilis. Kantanoleon was also from the family of Skordilis (some sources also claim that his correct surname was Skordilis and that the surname \"Kantanoleon\" was given to him by the Venetians).\n\nSome time before 1527 (or 1570 according to another source), many people from western Crete met at the monastery of Saint John at Akrotiri to revolt against their Venetian rulers as a result of taxes and brutal treatment, and elected George Kantanoleon as ruler. Following battles at Impros Gorge near Rethymno and at Samaria Gorge at Lasithi, the Venetians withdrew to Chania, allowing the new Cretan government free rein over western Crete. Kantanoleon established his headquarters at Meskla at the foot of the Lefka Ori, about 15 kilometres south of Chania, and set up his government including a more acceptable level of taxation.\n\nThe events that followed are disputed. Zambelios, in his book \"The Cretan Weddings\", claims that Petros (Kantanoleon's son) fell in love with Sophia (Molino’s daughter) and that Molino conspired with the Duke of Candia to trap and kill all the revolutionaries. Molino's plan was for a marriage between his daughter and Petros in which the invitees would be arrested and the rebels killed. A Venetian historian, however, stated that it was Kantanoleon that tried to impose a reconciliation between Cretans and the noble Venetian families of western Crete by arranging the marriage of his son to Molino's daughter, thus trying to establish a new dynasty to govern western Crete.\n\nBoth historians agree on the events that transpired at the wedding. The wedding itself had a large number of invited Cretan guests and traditional festivities had large amounts of wine consumed (spiced with opium according to Zambelios). Eventually, all of the guests were surrounded by Venetian troops that came secretly from Chania, Rethymno, and Candia. The troops arrested both Kantanoleon and his son Petros and hanged them on the spot together with more than thirty other Cretan nobles. The rest of the prisoners, ranging in the hundreds, were divided into four groups and one was hanged at the gates of Chania, one at Koutsogerako, one on the road from Chania to Rethymno, and one at Meskla (the headquarters of the rebel government). Yet, the atrocities did not stop there as whole villages were destroyed including Koutsogerako, Meskla, and a few others. The atrocities continued for some time and quite a few Cretan leaders and their families fled up to the mountains and stayed there for some time until eventually an amnesty was issued.\n\nIn January 1453, Sultan Mehmet II had the capital city of the Byzantine Empire, Constantinople, surrounded. He decided that he was going to take it over either by breaking through the city's defenses or by starving the inhabitants into submission. The sultan had his troops and an enormous fleet at his disposal while the besieged Byzantines (and their Christian allies) were demoralized and divided amongst themselves. Responding to a request for help from the Byzantine Emperor, the Sfakian leader Manousos Kallikratis gathered 300 Sfakian warriors and another 760 Cretan fighters from other parts of the island. The leader then sailed in five ships (three of which were Sfakian) and went to help the besieged Emperor.\n\nThe Sfakian/Cretan forces fought valiantly by breaking through the Ottoman blockade and by defending the city itself. Many Cretans died alongside the Byzantines, as well as alongside the few Genoese and Venetian co-defenders. When the city fell, the only 170 surviving Cretans had been surrounded by Ottoman troops in one of the city's towers and were refusing to surrender. The sultan was so impressed by their courage and fierce fighting skills that he agreed to let them walk out of the city with their flags, arms, and wounded and sail away to Crete in one of their ships.\n\nA poet of the time has the Byzantine Emperor saying as he was surrounded by the Ottomans, \"Christians, Greeks, cut off my head, take it, good Cretans, and carry it to Crete, for the Cretans to see it and be sad at heart.\" Just a few words from an anonymous poet described the deep impact of the fall of Constantinople had on the Cretans. They were to become the next home of the refugees from Byzantium and responsible for nurturing the rich heritage left to them by the collapsing Byzantine Empire.\n\nDuring the Ottoman occupation of Crete (1669–1898), and especially from the 18th century onwards, the Greeks looked towards Christian Russia as its savior. Peter the Great, as part of his plan to expand southward to the Black Sea, promoted himself as a champion of the Christians residing in the Balkans. His overall policy, with some variations, was continued by Catherine the Great (1762–1796) in her wars against the Ottoman Turks. She dreamed of resurrecting the Byzantine Empire and placing her grandson as its emperor. Before the first Russo-Turkish War, she sent Russian agents to Morea and the islands in order to stir up the Greeks to fight against the Turks. One of the Russian agents reached a man named Daskaloyiannis and told the Sfakian from Anopoli to lead a revolt. This was ill advice since the Sfakians, let alone the Cretans in general, were hardly ready for such a revolt, as they had virtually no weapons.\n\nYet, when in 1770, a Russian fleet under Count Aleksey Grigoryevich Orlov appeared in the Aegean, precipitating the Orlov Revolt, Daskaloyiannis and his Cretan followers revolted. However, when the Russo-Turkish conflict ran to an end, the Cretans were left alone against Turkish troops from Chania, Rethymno, and Heraklion. The pasha of Crete had captured the brother and daughters of Daskaloyiannis and with the promise of leniency he demanded that Daskaloyiannis surrender. Daskaloyiannis decided to surrender so that he could see his brother and daughters released. Most of the other leaders of the revolt were killed, and the pasha had Daskaloyiannis first tortured in order to provide any valuable strategic information. Naturally, Daskaloyiannis refused to surrender his people to the Turks. Even after the pasha had the Sfakian skinned alive strip by strip in front of hundreds summoned at a public square, Daskaloyiannis did not betray his people.\n\nNeither the failed revolt of 1770 AD nor the death of Daskaloyiannis went in vain since both events aroused the national sentiments of all Cretans. The revolts made by the Cretans and the legendary Sfakians contributed to the rise of the independent Cretan state in 1898, which also paved the way for Crete’s union with Greece in 1912.\n\nThe Sfakian dialect is much like any other Cretan dialect, and yet it is also quite different. Like many other Cretan dialects, , , , and before front vowels become , , , and . However, one oddity present in the Sfakian dialect is how it treats . Before an or an , ⟨λ⟩ is a lateral . However, before an , , or , it becomes an approximant , much like the English \"r\" sound. For example, \"θάλασσα\" (thalassa, meaning \"sea\") is pronounced by a Sfakian as , but πουλί (\"pouli\", meaning bird) is , closer to standard Greek. This feature is not shared anywhere else, except for certain villages in the Aegean, including the village of Apiranthos on the Cyladic island of Naxos. Indeed, the Sfakians believe that hundreds of years ago, probably after the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople, a group of Sfakians left Crete and came to Apiranthos on Naxos. The cultures of Sfakia and Apiranthos bear many striking similarities, not least of which includes the aforementioned dialectal peculiarity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3517833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3517833", "title": "Shipibo-Conibo people", "text": "Shipibo-Conibo people\n\nThe Shipibo-Conibo are an indigenous people along the Ucayali River in the Amazon rainforest in Perú. Formerly two groups, the Shipibo (apemen) and the Conibo (fishmen), they eventually became one distinct tribe through intermarriage and communal ritual and are currently known as the Shipibo-Conibo people.\nThe Shipibo-Conibo live in the 21st century while keeping one foot in the past, spanning millennia in the Amazonian rainforest. Many of their traditions are still practiced, such as ayahuasca shamanism. Shamanistic songs have inspired artistic tradition and decorative designs found in their clothing, pottery, tools and textiles. Some of the urbanized people live around Pucallpa in the Yarina Cocha, an extensive indigenous zone. Most others live in scattered villages over a large area of jungle forest extending from Brazil to Ecuador.\n\nShipibo-Conibo women make beadwork and textiles, but are probably best known for their pottery, decorated with maze-like red and black geometric patterns. While these ceramics were traditionally made for use in the home, an expanding tourist market has provided many households with extra income through the sale of pots and other craft items. They also prepare chapo, a sweet plantain beverage.\n\nThe Shipibo of the village of Pao-Yan used to have a diet of fish, yuca and fruits. Now, however, the situation has deteriorated because of global weather changes and now there is mostly just yuca and fish. Since there has been drought followed by flooding, most of the mature fruit trees have died, and some of the banana trees and plantains are struggling. Global increases in energy and food prices have risen due to deforestation and erosion along the Ucayali River. The basic needs of the people are more important now than ever, affecting their long term planning abilities. There is now a sense that hunger may not be that far off for those in the farther reaches of the Shipibo nation.\n\nContact with western sources – including the governments of Peru and Brazil – has been sporadic over the past three centuries. The Shipibo are noted for a rich and complex cosmology, which is tied directly to the art and artifacts they produce. Christian missionaries have worked to convert them since the late 17th century, particularly from the Franciscans.\n\nWith an estimated population of over 20,000, the Shipibo-Conibo represent approximately 8% of the indigenous registered population. Census data is unreliable due to the transitory nature of the group. Large amounts of the population have relocated to urban areas – in particular the eastern Peruvian cities of Pucallpa and Yarinacocha – to gain access to better educational and health services, as well as to look for alternative sources of monetary income.\n\nThe population numbers for this group have fluctuated in the last decades between approximately 11,000 (Wise and Ribeiro, 1978) to as many as 25,000 individuals (Hern 1994).\n\nLike all other indigenous populations in the Amazon basin, the Shipibo-Conibo are threatened by severe pressure from outside influences such as oil speculation, logging, narco-trafficking, and conservation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8871878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8871878", "title": "Temple of Victory", "text": "Temple of Victory\n\nThe Temple of Victory (Latin templum Victoriae) is a temple on the Palatine Hill in Rome. It is traditionally ascribed to Evander, but was actually built by Lucius Postumius Megellus out of fines he levied during his aedileship and dedicated by him on 1 August when consul in 294 BC. This temple was used to house Cybele's sacred stone between 204 BC and 191 BC, while her own nearby temple was still being built and Cato the Elder afterwards built a shrine of Victoria Virgo next to the temple of Victory. If still in use by the 4th-century, it would have been closed during the persecution of pagans in the late Roman Empire. \n\nIt was in the Temple of Victory that the spoils of war from Roman victories were eventually deposited. Some of its notable contents came from the spoils of Titus from the Temple of Jerusalem which remained deposited in the Temple of Victory until it was looted by the Vandals in the 5th century and subsequently taken to Africa. The golden roof of the temple was also removed by the barbarians during their pillage of Rome.\n\nThere is no record of any restoration of this temple and its exact site is still uncertain. See CJ 1920, 297, where Chase states that Boni identified this temple with foundations found near the arch of Titus. It was doubtless on the Clivus Victoriae, and remains of two dedicatory inscriptions. found about 50 metres west of the present church of San Teodoro, may indicate its position.\n"}
{"id": "622760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=622760", "title": "The Most Dangerous Game", "text": "The Most Dangerous Game\n\n\"The Most Dangerous Game\", also published as \"The Hounds of Zaroff\", is a short story by Richard Connell, first published in \"Collier's\" on January 19, 1924. The story features a big-game hunter from New York City who falls off a yacht and swims to what seems to be an abandoned and isolated island in the Caribbean, where he is hunted by a Russian aristocrat. The story is inspired by the big-game hunting safaris in Africa and South America that were particularly fashionable among wealthy Americans in the 1920s.\n\nThe story has been adapted numerous times, most notably as the 1932 RKO Pictures film \"The Most Dangerous Game\", starring Joel McCrea and Leslie Banks, and for a 1943 episode of the CBS Radio series \"Suspense\", starring Orson Welles.\n\nSanger Rainsford and his friend, Whitney, are traveling to the Amazon rainforest to hunt the region's big cat: the jaguar. After a discussion about how they are \"the hunters\" instead of \"the hunted\", Whitney goes to bed and Rainsford hears gunshots. He climbs onto the yacht's rail and accidentally falls overboard, swimming to Ship-Trap Island, which is notorious for shipwrecks. On the island, he finds a palatial chateau inhabited by two Cossacks: the owner, General Zaroff, and his gigantic deaf-mute servant, Ivan.\n\nZaroff, another big-game hunter, knows of Rainsford from his published account of hunting snow leopards in Tibet. After inviting him to dinner, General Zaroff tells Rainsford he is bored of hunting because it no longer challenges him; he has moved to Ship-Trap in order to capture shipwrecked sailors. Any captives who can elude Zaroff, Ivan, and a pack of hunting dogs for three days are set free. Zaroff reveals that no one has lasted that long, although a couple of sailors had come close. Zaroff also says that he offers sailors a \"choice\"; should they decline to be hunted they will be handed over to Ivan, who had once been official knouter for The Great White Czar. Rainsford denounces this as barbarism. Zaroff reacts in a cosmopolitan manner that \"life is for the strong\". Realizing he has no way out, Rainsford reluctantly agrees to be hunted.\n\nDuring his three-hour head start, Rainsford lays an intricate trail in the forest and then climbs a tree. Zaroff finds him easily, but decides to play with him like a cat would a mouse, standing underneath the tree Rainsford is hiding in, smoking a cigarette, and then abruptly departing. After the failed attempt at eluding Zaroff, Rainsford builds a Malay man-catcher, a weighted log attached to a trigger. This contraption injures Zaroff's shoulder, causing him to return home for the night. The next day Rainsford creates a Burmese tiger pit, which kills one of Zaroff's hounds. He sacrifices his knife and ties it to a sapling to make a Ugandan knife trap; Ivan is killed when he stumbles into this trap and the knife plunges into his heart. To escape Zaroff and his approaching hounds, Rainsford dives off a cliff into the sea; Zaroff, disappointed at Rainsford's suicide, returns home. \n\nZaroff locks himself in his bedroom and turns on the lights only to find Rainsford waiting for him; he had swum around the island in order to sneak into the chateau without the dogs finding him. Zaroff congratulates him on winning the \"game\", but Rainsford decides to fight him, saying he is still a beast-at-bay and that the original hunt is not over. Accepting the challenge, Zaroff says that the loser will be fed to the dogs, while the winner will sleep in his bed. Though the ensuing fight is not described, the story ends with Rainsford observing that \"he had never slept in a better bed\"—implying that he defeated and killed Zaroff.\n\n\"The Most Dangerous Game\" is a popular read within middle and high school curricula due to the strength of the themes within the story. The first and foremost question that the story bears is that of justifiable murder. Rainsford justifies his hunting of animals because he believes that man is superior to animals because animals do not feel. To contradict, General Zaroff believes that men are superior because they are able to reason. Zaroff uses his reasoning to explain why men are the most interesting game to hunt; men can reason, and thus provide a challenge that no animal can contend with. The story simultaneously highlights through the experience of Rainsford, as he is hunted, the fears that animals must experience while being hunted.\n\nZaroff himself is a contradiction because his exquisite manners are juxtaposed with his heartless brutality in killing men. The idea of a man who is proper in all aspects, but still contains a desire to kill, is a suggestion by Connell that men possess murderous instincts that can only be subdued by the presence of society and law. Zaroff is only able to partake in his \"hobby\" because he does not live within a civilization.\n\nThe ending of the story bears questions about the true nature of Rainsford, who is implied to have killed Zaroff in order to secure his own safety. By killing Zaroff, he thus took part in the \"game\" that Zaroff wanted him to play.\n\nThis story has been adapted to film numerous times. The most significant of these adaptations—and the only film to use the original characters—was RKO Pictures' film released in 1932, \"The Most Dangerous Game\". Joel McCrea stars as Rainsford; Leslie Banks portrays Zaroff. The adaptation by James Ashmore Creelman adds two other principal characters, brother-and-sister pair Eve Trowbridge (Fay Wray) and Martin Trowbridge (Robert Armstrong), who are castaways from a shipwreck. \"The Most Dangerous Game\" was co-directed by Ernest B. Schoedsack and Irving Pichel; also with a score by Max Steiner, the film was a favorite project of producer Merian C. Cooper. The production shared several sets with \"King Kong\" (1933), a simultaneous RKO project that also involved Schoedsack, Cooper, Wray, Armstrong, Creelman, and Steiner. \"The Most Dangerous Game\" was a modest success.\n\nRKO produced a remake titled \"A Game of Death\" (1945), directed by Robert Wise, from a screenplay Norman Houston wrote. This film stars John Loder and Audrey Long, with Edgar Barrier as the mad hunter. In order to keep with events of that time, \"A Game of Death\" changed Zaroff into \"Erich Kreiger\", a Nazi, and was set in the aftermath of the Second World War.\n\nIn 1956, United Artists released another film adaptation, \"Run for the Sun\", starring Richard Widmark, Trevor Howard and Jane Greer.\n\nIn 1961, the film \"Bloodlust!\" was released, directed by Ralph Brooke and starring Wilton Graff as the Zaroff-type character, and Robert Reed as the leader of a band of youths who become stranded on the island.\n\n1972's \"The Woman Hunt\" starring John Ashley and Sid Haig made for Roger Corman's New World Pictures is an unofficial remake of the story. \n\nThe Australian film \"Turkey Shoot\" has similar elements.\n\nJohn Woo's first Hollywood directorial effort, the Jean-Claude Van Damme thriller \"Hard Target\" (1993), was loosely based on the same story. The locale was shifted to 1990s New Orleans, with homeless Vietnam war veterans voluntarily serving (in return for potential payment from a shady businessman) as human prey.\n\nIn \"Surviving the Game\" (1994), a homeless man is hired as a survival guide for a group of wealthy businessmen on a hunting trip in the mountains. He is unaware that they are killers who hunt humans for sport, and that he is their new prey. Directed by Ernest R. Dickerson, the film stars Rutger Hauer, Ice-T, and Charles S. Dutton.\n\n\"The Pest\" (1997) is a comedic parody of the story, with German huntsman Gustav Shank accidentally bringing Puerto Rican teenage hustler Pestario \"Pest\" Vargas to his island instead of the skilled man he had intended to hunt, only to decide to hunt the Pest anyway due to his sheer obnoxiousness. Shank's ambition is to have a head of a warrior of every ethnicity in his Trophy Room. He also rigs the \"game\" by having his prey unknowingly drink a slow-acting poison before the hunt, making sure that they die even if they escape him. \n\nIn \" The Eliminator\" (2004), seven captured people are hunted at night for sport on an island as a betting game for the wealthy.\n\n\"The Most Dangerous Game\" was presented four times as a radio play. \n\n\"The Outer Limits\" episode \"The Hunt\" is a story in which the hunting of animals has been banned by environmentalists, and black market hunting of obsolete androids takes its place.\n\nIn \"The Wild Wild West\" episode, 1/3 \"The Night of Sudden Death\", Jim West and a circus girl are trapped inside a Africa Reserve wild animal Park in Colorado and are hunted by a insane big Game Hunter Warren (Robert Loggia).\n\nIn the \"Get Smart\" episode, \"Island of the Darned\", Agents 86 and 99 are trapped on an island with a mad KAOS killer, Hans Hunter (Harold Gould).\n\nThis trope was used in the season 3 (1968), episode 22 of \"I Spy\", \"The Name of the Game\".\n\nIn the \"Gilligan's Island\" episode \"The Hunter\", big-game hunter Jonathan Kincaid (Rory Calhoun) turned his sights on Gilligan when he realized there were no wild animals on the island.\n\nIn the series finale of \"Bonanza\", entitled \"The Hunter\", a deranged killer, Corporal Bill Tanner (Tom Skerritt), who was formerly a tracker for the United States Army, hunts Little Joe (Michael Landon).\n\nIn the 1974 TV movie \"Savages\" after a young man accidentally witness a murder, he must survive both the desert and being hunted by the killer (Andy Griffith)\n\nIn the 1977 pilot episode of \"Fantasy Island\", a big-game hunter comes to the island to be hunted by a man, an interesting twist on the usual version in which the hunted participates against his will.\n\nThe Canadian series \"Relic Hunter\" had an episode called \"Run Sydney Run\" that was very closely based on \"The Most Dangerous Game\", with Peter Stebbings acting as General Tsarlov.\n\n\"The Simpsons\" Halloween special \"Treehouse of Horror XVI\" contained a segment \"Survival of the Fattest\" which parodied the story closely. In this segment Mr. Burns invited much of the cast to his hunting lodge on a private island only to reveal that he intended to hunt them all for sport. Another episode makes a reference to \"The Most Dangerous Game\" when Rainier Wolfcastle says that he bought a YMCA to demolish it and install a hunting ground dedicated to \"hunt the most dangerous animal of all... Man\".\n\nIn an episode of the animated sitcom \"American Dad!\", the Smith family and a young woman become stranded on an island after Francine jumps off a cruise. Stan goes up to the mansion on this island to ask for help, but the inhabitants say that they are going to hunt the family. The Smiths and the young woman become trapped in a cave, where the young woman dies and they eat her to survive. The hunters then break into the cave and shoot the family. Stan sits up, realizing it is paint. At a party later, the hunters reveal that nobody really dies on The Most Dangerous Game Island.\n\n\"The Incredible Hulk\" episode \"The Snare\" has Bruce Banner trapped on a private island owned by an insane hunter who not only craves the challenge of hunting humans, but considers the discovery of Banner's powerful Hulk form as a sign of a particularly appealing quarry.\n\nIn Season 2, Episode 21 of \"Criminal Minds\", \"Open Season\", two brothers capture people stranded in a remote region of the wilderness outside Challis, Idaho, release them into the hills, and hunt them with compound bows for sport, referring the men as \"bucks\" and the women as \"does\".\n\nIn Season 13, Episode 15 of \"\", \"Hunting Ground\", a serial rapist and killer lures female escorts after their date to a remote area where he sets them free while he hunts them down to recapture them again.\n\nIn the Disney animated series \"The Mighty Ducks\", \"The Most Dangerous Duck Hunt\" episode the heroes are trapped on an island and hunted.\n\nIn a \"Dial M for Monkey\" segment of the animated series \"Dexter's Laboratory\", the hero Monkey is trapped by an alien big game hunter named \"Huntor\", who also makes a cameo in the Cartoon Network cartoon series \"Samurai Jack\". \n\nIn Season 1, Episode 15 of \"Supernatural\", \"The Benders\", a family has been behind disappearances in a city. The family snatches victims to hunt and kill. Sam and a police officer are taken, but Dean finds them and helps them subdue the family before it can cause them any harm.\n\nIn Season 7, Episode 12 of \"Futurama\", \"31st Century Fox\", Bender becomes the target of a fox hunting club and is referred to as 'the most dangerous game.'\n\nIn Season 2 Episode 6 of \"The Blacklist\", Elizabeth Keen and her FBI task force encounters a family in Idaho who trained the mother's youngest son to hunt and kill humans kidnapped by the eldest son.\n\nIn the Season 3, Episode 5 episode of \"Archer\", \"El Contador\", Lana and Archer are hunted by a drug lord.\n\nIn an episode of Season 5 of \"Game of Thrones\", there is a scene in which Ramsay Bolton hunts a woman (one of his former lovers). She is cornered by the hunting party and eaten alive by Ramsay's dogs. It is implied that this was not the only time Ramsay indulged in human hunting \"for sport.\"\n\nIn Season 3, Episodes 21 and 22 of \"\", Ahsoka Tano and Chewbacca are hunted on an island.\n\nAn episode of the animated series \"Johnny Bravo\" entitled \"Hunted!\" is an obvious parody of the story. The titular Johnny is forced to go through the same ordeal, but his stupidity and foolishness greatly frustrates the hunter, who eventually allows him to leave.\n\nThe story has also served as an inspiration for books and films like \"Seventh Victim\", \"Battle Royale\", \"Predator\", \"The Running Man\" and \"The Hunger Games\". In the film \"Westworld\", humans are allowed to hunt and kill androids until one, played by Yul Brynner, starts hunting them.\n\nIn the anime series \"Psycho-Pass\", episodes 10 and 11 feature a wealthy cyborg tycoon who dons gentleman's hunting gear and hunts people in an underground maze with his robotic hounds.\n\nIn the video game \"\", the mission \"Beldingford Manor\" takes inspiration from this story.\n\nIn the video game \"\", the character Razoff takes inspiration from General Zaroff, even sharing similar names.\n\nIn the comic-book story \"The Second Most Dangerous Game\" (serialized in Martian Comics #8-10), Martians possess humans to continue their tradition of hunting other humans, after the practice has been outlawed. Richard Connell is a character.\n\nThe well known Spider-Man villain, Kraven the Hunter, is based on the character of General Zaroff.\n\nIn Clive Cussler's book \"DRAGON\" Dirk Pitt is chased by \"Kamatori\" on Soseki Island.\n\nIn the online game Poptropica, the 5-part \"Survival Island\" features you in a situation much like the one in the original story.\n\nIn the video game \"Psychonauts\", Vernon, one of the campers, references to hunting the most dangerous game while playing hide and seek.\n\nIn Don Pendleton's \"The Executioner\" series, book #441, called Murder Island has a similar plot to the book. The protagonist, Mack \"The Executioner\" Bolan (a Vigilante/government agent) encounters a rich businessman hunter on an island while on a mission and ends up in similar position as the Rainsford character, while the rich hunter takes a similar role a Zaroff.\n\nIn a song called “Fly Over the Wall” by Joey Pecoraro, the opening interaction between Rainsford and General Zaroff is used as a prelude to the actual song.\n\nThe Rooster Teeth series \"Let's Play Minecraft\" featured an adaptation of the story into a game played by the show's cast members in the video game Minecraft, where one player was given a map and hunted by the other five in and around the in-game world created by the Achievement Hunter cast members.\n\nA translated version was published in Malayalam as an audio book by Kathacafe in 2017 \n\nRobert Hansen, a serial killer who was active in the early 1980s, would kidnap women and release them in Alaska’s Knik River Valley. He would then hunt them, armed with a knife and a Ruger Mini-14 rifle.\n\nIn 1976, Hayes Noel, Bob Gurnsey, and Charles Gaines discussed Gaines's recent trip to Africa and his experiences hunting African buffalo. Inspired in part by \"The Most Dangerous Game\", they created paintball in 1981—a game where they would stalk and hunt each other—to recreate the same adrenaline rush from hunting animals.\n\nThere is a reference to \"The Most Dangerous Game\" in letters the Zodiac Killer wrote to San Francisco Bay Area newspapers in his three-part cipher: \"Man is the most dangerous animal of all to kill.\" \"The Most Dangerous Game\" film is also mentioned a number of times in the context of the Zodiac Killer in the 2007 film, \"Zodiac\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47533761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47533761", "title": "Timeline of the United Kingdom home front during the First World War", "text": "Timeline of the United Kingdom home front during the First World War\n\nThis is a timeline of the British home front during the First World War from 1914 to 1918.\n\n28 June 1914\n27 July 1914\n\n28 July 1914\n\n29 July 1914\n\n1 August 1914\n\n2 August 1914\n\n3 August 1914\n\n4 August 1914\n\n5 August 1914\n\n6 August 1914\n\n7 August 1914\n\n8 August 1914\n\n12 August 1914\n\nSeptember 1914\nNovember 1914\n\n19 November 1914\n\n3 December 1914\n\n16 December 1914\n\n9 January 1915\n\n19 January 1915\n\n12 February 1915\n\n18 February 1915\n\n16 March 1915\n\n27 March 1915\n\n16 April 1915\n\n7 May 1915\n\n26 May 1915\n\n31 May 1915\n\nJuly 1915\n\n2 July 1915\n\n15 July 1915\n\n17 July 1915\n\n3 September 1915\n\n16 October 1915\n\n15 December 1915\n\n2 March 1916\n\n2 April 1916\n\n24–29 April 1916\n\n21 May 1916\n\n5 June 1916\n\n10 August 1916\n\n5 December 1916\n7 December 1916\n\n22 December 1916\n\n19 January 1917\n\n2 February 1917\n\nMarch 1917\n28 March 1917\n\n21 May 1917\n\n25 May 1917\n\n29 May 1917\n\n13 June 1917\n\nJuly 1917\n\n17 July 1917\n\n4 September 1917\n\n2 November 1917\n\n17 December 1917\n\n29 November 1917\n\n31 December 1917\n\nJanuary 1918\n\n1 January 1918\n\n5 January 1918\n\n16 February 1918\n\n25 February 1918\n\n1 April 1918\n\n18 April 1918\n\n19 May 1918\n\n10 June 1918\n\n31 August 1918\n\n28 October 1918\n\n11 November 1918\n"}
{"id": "32558936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32558936", "title": "Vaal–Orange language", "text": "Vaal–Orange language\n\nVaal–Orange, also known as Seroa, is an extinct ǃKwi language of South Africa and Lesotho. It comprised the \"ǂUngkue\" dialect (also rendered \"ǂKunkwe\") of the Warrenton area, recorded by Carl Meinhof, and the \"ǁŨǁ’e\" dialect (also rendered \"ǁKu-ǁ’e\" or \"ǁKuǁe\"), spoken near Theunissen and Bethany in South Africa and into Lesotho, recorded by Dorothea Bleek. \n\nThe name \"Vaal–Orange\" comes from the Vaal and Orange Rivers, which converge where ǂUngkue dialect was spoken. \"Seroa\" is the Sesotho name, literally \"language of the \"Baroa\" (Bushmen)\". \n\nLike ǀXam, ǂUngkue used 'inclusory' pronouns for compound subjects:\n\n"}
{"id": "19017064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19017064", "title": "Zdynia", "text": "Zdynia\n\nZdynia (, \"Zhdynia\") is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Uście Gorlickie, within Gorlice County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland, close to the border with Slovakia. It lies approximately east of Uście Gorlickie, south-east of Gorlice, and south-east of the regional capital Kraków.\n\nThe village has a population of 220. Zdynia is the site of an of Lemko culture. The village is located between mountains of Beskid Niski on the way of walking and cycle paths. It is also a place of one of the largest in Poland motorcycle gatherings.\n\n<br>\n"}
