{"id": "4775145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4775145", "title": "Aeon (Thelema)", "text": "Aeon (Thelema)\n\nIn the religion of Thelema, it is believed that the history of humanity can be divided into a series of aeons (also written æons), each of which was accompanied by its own forms of \"magical and religious expression\".\nThe first of these was the Aeon of Isis, which Thelemites believed occurred during prehistory and which saw mankind worshipping a Great Goddess, symbolised by the ancient Egyptian deity Isis. In Thelemite beliefs, this was followed by the Aeon of Osiris, a period that took place in the classical and mediaeval centuries, when humanity worshipped a singular male god, symbolised by the Egyptian god Osiris, and was therefore dominated by patriarchal values. And finally the third aeon, the Aeon of Horus, which was controlled by the child god, symbolised by Horus. In this new aeon, Thelemites believe that humanity will enter a time of self-realization and self-actualization.\n\nWithin the Thelemite religion, each of these aeons is believed to be \"characterized by their [own specific] magical formula\", the use of which \"is very important and fundamental to the understanding of Thelemic Magick\".\n\nThe first Aeon of Isis was maternal, where the female aspect of the Godhead was revered due to a mostly matriarchal society and the idea that \"Mother Earth\" nourished, clothed and housed man closed in the womb of Matrix. It was characterized by pagan worship of the Mother and Nature. In his \"Equinox of the Gods\" Crowley describes this period as \"simple, quiet, easy, and pleasant; the material ignores the spiritual\" (\"Equinox of the Gods\").\n\nLon Milo DuQuette remarked that this aeon was \"the Age of the Great Goddess\", and that it had originated in prehistory, reaching its zenith at \"approximately 2400 B.C.\" Continuing with this idea, he remarked that this period was when \"the cult of the Great Goddess\" was truly universal. She was worshipped by countless cultures under myriad names and forms. It would also be a mistake for us to conclude that the magical formula of this period manifested exclusively through the worship of any particular anthropomorphic female deity. For, like every aeon, the magical formula of the Aeon of Isis was founded upon mankind's interpretation of the 'perceived facts' of nature, and our Isian-age progenitors perceived nature as a continuous process of spontaneous growth.\"\n\nThe classical and medieval Aeon of Osiris is considered to be dominated by the paternal principle and the formula of the Dying God. This Aeon was characterized by that of self-sacrifice and submission to the Father God while man spoke of his father and mother. Crowley says of this Aeon in his \"Heart of the Master\":\nCrowley also says of the Aeon of Osiris in \"Equinox of the Gods\":\nThe modern Aeon of Horus is portrayed as a time of self-realization as well as a growing interest in all things spiritual, and is considered to be dominated by the principle of the child. The Word of its Law is Thelema (will), which is complemented by Agape (love), and its formula is Abrahadabra. Individuality and finding the individual's True Will are the dominant aspects; its formula is that of growth, in consciousness and love, toward self-realization. Concerning the Aeon of Horus, Crowley wrote:\n\nAnd also, in his \"Little Essays Toward Truth\":\n\nLon Milo DuQuette commented on the connection that the Aeon of Horus had to the Age of Aquarius when he stated that \"Yes, [the Aeon of Horus] is coincidental to what astrologers and songwriters call the Age of Aquarius and what millions of others refer to simply as the New Age. But it would be a mistake to view this new aeon simply as another tick on a great cosmic clock. The Age of Aquarius, profoundly significant as it is, is only one aspect of a far greater new spiritual age.\"\n\nSome Thelemites believe that the Aeon of Ma'at will eventually replace the present one. According to one of Crowley's early students, Charles Stansfeld Jones (a.k.a. Frater Achad), the Aeon of Ma'at has already arrived or overlaps the present Aeon of Horus.\n\nChaos magic is seen by some as having evolved from portions of the Thelemic religion. Relevant personalities and organizations: Peter J. Carroll, Ray Sherwin, and the Illuminates of Thanateros. See also Carroll's Liber Kaos.\n\nNot all Thelemites believe in a clear succession of Aeons. Sometimes Crowley compared the Word of Horus with other formulas, whose reigns appear to overlap with the Aeon of Osiris and/or Isis. From his \"The Confessions of Aleister Crowley\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1877411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1877411", "title": "Alianza Islámica", "text": "Alianza Islámica\n\nThe Alianza Islámica is a Latino-Muslim organization in the United States. It was founded in 1987 by a group of Puerto Rican Muslim converts and was the United States' first Latino Muslim organization.\n\nThe founders felt that neither the African-American-majority nor the immigrant-majority communities sufficiently addressed Latina/os' particular culture, languages, social situations, and contributions to Islamic history.\n\nIn El Barrio, Spanish Harlem, the Alianza has mediated between rival gangs, mentored jailed Latinos, provided education about HIV/AIDS, offered GED (General Education Development Test) courses, helped the sick get treatment, and given free meals during Ramadan.\n\nAlianza Islámica created the first masjid for the Spanish-speaking community. Through wedding celebrations, congregational prayers, English and Spanish sermons, sharing traditional Puerto Rican dishes without pork, music and poetry gatherings, etc., Alianza Islámica was able to present itself as an integral organization of the local community.\n\nOne of the founders of Alianza Islamica, Ibrahim Gonzalez, died on June 4, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2915899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2915899", "title": "Anandpur Sahib Resolution", "text": "Anandpur Sahib Resolution\n\nThe Anandpur Sahib Resolution, was a statement with a list of demands made by Punjab political party, the Shiromani Akali Dal, in 1973.\n\nAfter being routed in 1972 Punjab election, the Akali Dal put forward the Anandpur Sahib Resolution resolution in 1973 to demand more autonomy to Punjab. The resolution included both religious and political issues. It asked for recognising Sikhism as a religion separate from Hinduism. It also demanded that power be generally devoluted from the Central to state governments. The demand for autonomy was phrased such a way that would have given more authority to the Sikhs than Hindus in Punjab.\n\nThe document was largely forgotten for some time after its adoption, but came into the limelight in the 1980s. The Akali Dal and Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale joined hands to launch the Dharam Yudh Morcha in 1982 in order to implement the Anandpur Sahib Resolution. Thousands of people joined the movement, feeling that it represented a real solution to demands such as a larger share of water for irrigation and the return of Chandigarh to Punjab.\n\nIndira Gandhi, the leader of the Akali Dal's rival Congress, viewed the Anandpur Sahib Resolution as a secessionist document. Passing of the resolution would have allowed India to be divided, making a Khalistan for sikhs.\n\nThe Akali Dal officially stated that the Anandpur Sahib Resolution did not envisage an autonomous Sikh State of Khalistan. Its president Harchand Singh Longowal declared:\nAfter the Operation Bluestar, Rajiv Gandhi reached a compromise with Longowal called Rajiv-Longowal Accord, on 24 July 1985. The government accepted the demands of Akali Dal who in turn agreed to withdraw their agitation. The accord attracted opposition from several orthodox Sikh leaders of Punjab as well as from the politicians of Haryana. Some of its promises could not be fulfilled due to the disagreements. Harcharan Singh Longowal was assassinated by the Sikh militants opposed to the accord.\n\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal shall ever strive to achieve the following aims:\n\n1. Propagation of Sikhism, its ethical values and code of conduct to combat atheism.\n\n2. Preservation and keeping alive the concept of distinct and sovereign identity of the Panth and building up of appropriate condition in which the national sentiments and aspirations of the Sikh Panth will find full expression, satisfaction and facilities for growth.\n\n3. Eradication of poverty and starvation through increased production and more equitable distribution of wealth and also the establishment of a just social order sans exploitation of any kind.\n\n4. Vacation of discrimination on the basis of caste, creed or any other ground in keeping with basic principles of Sikhism.\n\n5. Removal of disease and ill health, checking the use of intoxicants and provision of full facilities for the growth of physical well-being so as to prepare and enthuse the Sikh Nation for the national defence. For the achievement of the aforesaid purposes, the Shiromani Akali Dal owed society as its primary duty to inculcate among the Sikh; religious fervour and a sense of pride in their great socio-spiritual heritage through the following measures:\n\n(a). Reiteration of the concept of unity of God, meditation on His Name, recitation of gurbani, inculcation of faith in the Holy Sikh Gurus as well as in Guru Granth Sahib Ji and other appropriate measures for such a purpose.\n\n(b). Grooming at the Sikh Missionary College the Sikh youth with inherent potential to become accomplished preachers, ragis, dhadis and poets so that the propagation of Sikhism, its tenets and traditions and its basic religious values could be taken up more effectively and vigorously.\n\n(c). Baptising the Sikhs on a mass scale with particular emphasis on schools and colleges wherein the teachers as well as the taught shall be enthused through regular study circles.\n\n(d). Revival of the religious institution of Dasvandh among the Sikhs.\n\n(e). Generating a feeling of respect for Sikh intellectuals including writers and preachers, who also would be enthused to improve upon their accomplishments.\n\n(f). Streamlining the administration of the gurdwaras by giving better training to their workers. Appropriate steps would also be taken to maintain gurdwara building in proper condition. The representatives of the party in the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee would be directed to focus their resources towards these ends.\n\n(g). Making suitable arrangements for error free publications of gurbani, promoting research in the ancient and modern Sikh history, translating holy gurbani into other languages and producing first-rate literature on Sikhism.\n\n(h). Taking appropriate measures for the enactment of an All India Gurdwaras Act with a view to improving the administration of the gurdwaras throughout the country and to reintegrate the traditional preaching sects of Sikhism like Udasis and Nirmalas, without in any way encroaching upon the properties of their maths.\n\n(i). Taking necessary steps to bring the Sikh gurdwaras all over the world under a single system of administration with a view to running them according to the basic Sikh forms and to pool their resources for the propagation of Sikhism on a wider and more impressive scale.\n\n(j). Striving to free access to all those holy Sikh shrines, including Nanakana Sahib, from which the Sikh Panth has been separated, for their pilgrimage and proper upkeep.\n\n(k). Development of the farmers (kisan) of Punjab.\n\nResolutions adopted, in the light of the Anandpur Sahib Resolution, at open session of the 18th All India Akali Conference held at Ludhiana on 28–29 October 1978, under the presidency of Jathedar Jagdev Singh Talwandi are as under:\n\nResolution No. 1\n\nMoved by Sardar Gurcharan Singh Tohra, President, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.\n\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal realizes that India is a federal and republican geographical entity of different languages, religions and cultures. To safeguard the fundamental rights of the religious and linguistic minorities, to fulfill the demands of the democratic traditions and to pave the way for economic progress, it has become imperative that the Indian constitutional infrastructure should be given a real federal shape by redefining the Central and State relation and rights on the lines of the aforesaid principles and objectives.\nThe concept of total revolution given by Lok Naik Jaya Parkash Narain is also based upon the progressive decentralization of powers. The climax of the process of centralization of powers of the states through repeated amendments of the Constitution during the Congress regime came before the countrymen in the form of the Emergency (1975), when all fundamental rights of all citizens was usurped. It was then that the programme of decentralization of powers ever advocated by Shiromani Akali Dal was openly accepted and adopted by other political parties including Janata Party, C.P.I. (M), D.M.K., etc.\nShiromani Akali Dal has ever stood firm on this principle and that is why after a very careful consideration it unanimously adopted a resolution to this effect first at the All India Akali Conference, Batala, then at Anandpur Sahib which has endorsed the principle of State autonomy in keeping with the concept of federalism.\n\nAs such, the Shiromani Akali Dal emphatically urges upon the Janata Government to take cognizance of the different linguistic and cultural sections, religious minorities as also the voice of millions of people and recast the constitutional structure of the country on real and meaningful federal principles to obviate the possibility of any danger to the unity and integrity of the country and, further, to enable the states to play a useful role for the progress and prosperity of the Indian people in their respective areas by a meaningful exercise of their powers.\n\nResolution No. 2\n\nThis momentous meeting of the Shiromani Akali Dal calls upon the Government of India to examine carefully the long tale of the excesses, wrongs, illegal actions committed [against the Sikhs] by the previous Congress Government, more particularly during the Emergency, and try to find an early solution to the following problems:\n\n(a) Chandigarh originally raised as a Capital for Punjab should be handed over to Punjab.\n\n(b) The long-standing demand of the Shiromani Akali Dal for the merger in Punjab of the Punjabi-speaking areas, to be identified by linguistic experts with village as a unit, should be conceded.\n\n(c) The control of headworks should continue to be vested in Punjab and, if need be, the Reorganization Act should be amended.\n\n(d) The arbitrary and unjust Award given by Mrs. Indira Gandhi during the Emergency on the distributions of Ravi-Beas waters should be revised on the universally accepted norms and principles, and justice be done to Punjab.\n\n(e) Keeping in view the special aptitude and martial qualities of the Sikhs, the present ratio of their strength in the Army should be maintained.\n\n(f) The excesses being committed on the settlers in the Tarai region of the Uttar Pradesh in the name of Land Reforms should be vacated by making suitable amendments in the ceiling law on the Central guidelines.\n\nResolution No. 3\n\nThe chief sources of inspiration of the economic policies and programme of the Shiromani Akali Dal are the secular, democratic and socialistic concepts of Guru Nanak and Guru Gobind Singh. Our economic programme is based on three principles:\n\nWhile drafting its economic policies and programme, the Shiromani Akali Dal in its historic Anandpur Sahib Resolution has laid particular stress on the need to break the monopolistic hold of the capitalists foisted on the Indian economy by 30 years of Congress rule in India. This capitalist hold enabled the Central government to assume all powers in its hands after the manner of Mughal imperialism. This was bound to thwart the economic progress of the states and injure the social and economic interests of the people. The Shiromani Akali Dal once again reiterates the Sikh way of life by resolving to fulfil the holy words of Guru Nanak Dev:\n\"He alone realizes the true path who labors honestly and shares with others the fruits of that labor.\"\n\nThis way of life is based upon three basic principles:\n\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal calls upon the Central and the State governments to eradicate unemployment during the next ten years. While pursuing this aim, special emphasis should be laid on amelioration the lot of the weaker sections, scheduled and depressed classes, workers, landless and poor farmers and urban poor farmers and urban poor. Minimum wages must be fixed for all of them.\n\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal urges Punjab government to draw up such an economic plan for the state as would turn it into the leading state during the next ten years by raising per capita income to Rs. 3,000 and by generating an economic growth rate of 7% per annum as against 4% at the national level.\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal gives first priority to the redrafting of the taxation structure in such a way that the burden of taxation is shifted from the poor to the richer classes and an equitable distribution of national income ensured.\nThe main plank of the economic programme of the Shiromani Akali Dal is to enable the economically weaker sections of the society to share the fruits of national income.\n\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal calls upon the Central government to make an international airport at Amritsar which should also enjoy the facilities of a dry port. Similarly, a Stock Exchange should be opened at Ludhiana to accelerate the process of industrialization and economic growth in the State. The Shiromani Akali Dal also desires that suitable amendments should be made in the Foreign Exchange rules for free exchange of foreign currencies and thereby removing the difficulties being faced by the Indian emigrants.\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal emphatically urges upon the Indian government to bring about parity between the prices of the agricultural produce and that of the industrial raw materials so that the discrimination against such states that lack these materials may be removed.\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal demands that the exploitation of the produces of cash crops like cotton, sugarcane, oil seeds, etc., at the hand of traders should be stopped forthwith and for this purpose arrangements be made for purchase by government of these crops at remunerable prices. Besides, effective steps should be taken by government for the purchase of cotton through the Cotton Corporation.\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal strongly feels that the most pressing national problem is the need to ameliorate the lot of millions of exploited persons belonging to the scheduled classes. For such a purpose the Shiromani Akali Dal calls upon the Central and State governments to earmark special funds. Besides, the state governments should allot sufficient funds in their respective budgets for giving free residential plots both in the urban and rural areas to the Scheduled Castes.\n\nThe Shiromani Akali Dal also calls for the rapid diversification of farming. The shortcomings in the Land Reforms Laws should be removed, rapid industrialization of the State ensured, credit facilities for the medium industries expanded and unemployment allowance given to those who are unemployed. For remunerative farming, perceptible reduction should be made in the prices of farm machinery like tractors, tubewells, as also of the inputs.\n\nResolution No. 4\n\nThis huge gathering of the Shiromani Akali Dal regrets the discrimination to which the Punjabi language is being subjected in adjoining States of Himachal, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, etc. It is its firm demand that in accordance with the Nehru Language Formula, the neighboring states of Punjab should give \"second\" language status to Punjabi because of fairly large sections of their respective populations are Punjabi-speaking.\n\nResolution No. 5\n\nThe meeting regrets that against the \"claims\" of the refugees who had migrated to Jammu and Kashmir as a result of the partition of the country, no compensation had been provided to them even after such a long time and these unfortunate refugees had been rotting in the camps ever since then.\nThis Akali Dal session, therefore, forcefully demands that their claims should be settled soon and immediate steps should be taken to rehabilitate them even if it involves an amendment to section 370 of the Constitution.\n\nResolution No. 6\n\nThe 18th session of the All India Akali Conference take strong exception to the discrimination to which the minorities in other states are being subjected and the way in which their interests are being ignored.\nAs such, it demands that injustice against the Sikhs in other states should be vacated and proper representation should be given them in government service, local bodies and state legislatures, through nominations, if need be.\n\nResolution No. 7\n\nThe 18th session of the All India Akali Conference notes with satisfaction that mechanization of farming in the country has led to increase in the farm yield and as a result the country is heading toward self-sufficiency in foodgrain.\nHowever, the session feels that poor farmers are unable to tale to mechanization because of the enormity of the cost involved.\nAs such, the Shiromani Akali Dal urges upon the Government of India to abolish the excise duty on tractors, so that with the decrease in their prices, the smaller farmers may also be able to avail themselves of farm machinery and contribute to increase in agricultural produce of the country.\n\nResolution No. 8\n\nThis conference of the Shiromani Akali Dal appeals to the Central and State governments to pay particular attention to the poor and laboring classes and demands that besides making suitable amendments in the Minimum Wages Act, suitable legal steps be taken to improve the economic lot of the laboring class, to enable it to lead respectable life and play a useful role in the rapid industrialization of the country.\n\nResolution No. 9\n\nThis session seeks permission from the Government of India to install a broadcasting station at the Golden Temple, Amritsar, for the relay of Gurbani Kirtan for the spiritual satisfaction of those Sikh who are living in foreign lands.\nThe session wishes to make it clear that the entire cost of the proposed broadcasting project would be borne by the Khalsa Panth and its over all control shall vest with the Indian Government. It is hoped that the Government would have no hesitation in conceding this demand after due consideration.\n\nResolution No. 10\n\nThis mammoth gathering of the Shiromani Akali Dal strongly urges upon the Government of India to make necessary amendments in the following enactment for the benefit of the agricultural classes who have toiled hard for the sake of larger national interests:\n1. Hindu Succession Act be suitably amended to enable a woman to get rights of inheritance in the properties of her father-in-law instead of the father's.\n2. The agricultural lands of the farmers should be completely exempted from the Wealth Tax and the Estate Tax.\n\nResolution No. 11\n\nThis vast gathering of the Shiromani Akali Dal strongly impresses upon the Government of India that keeping in vies that economic backwardness of the scheduled and non-scheduled castes, provisions proportionate to their population should be made in the budget for utilization for their welfare. A special ministry should be created at the Centre as a practical measure to render justice to them on the basis of reservations.\nThe session also calls upon the government that in keeping with the settlement already made, no discrimination should be made between the Sikh and Hindu Harijans in any part of the country.\n\nResolution No. 12\n\nThe Congress government is called upon to vacate the gross injustice, discrimination done to Punjab in the distribution of Ravi-Beas waters. The Central government must also give approval for the immediate establishment of six sugar and four textile mills in Punjab so that the State may be able to implement its agro-industrial policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23026865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23026865", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Egypt", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Egypt\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Egypt has existed for over 100 years. The first Bahá'ís arrived in 1863. Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the religion, was himself briefly in Egypt in 1868 when on his way to imprisonment in `Akká. The first Egyptians were converts by 1896. Despite forming an early Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly and forming a National Assembly, in 1960 following a regime change the Bahá'ís lost all rights as an organised religious community by Decree 263 at the decree of then-President Gamal Abdel Nasser. However, in 1963, there were still seven organized communities in Egypt. More recently the roughly 2000 (according to Egypt Today or 7000 by ARDA) Bahá'ís of Egypt have been embroiled in the Egyptian identification card controversy from 2006 through 2009. There have been homes burned down and families driven out of towns.\n\nOne of the early Bahá'í pioneers to come to Egypt in 1867 was Mirza Heyder Ali during the reign of Isma'il Pasha circa 1860–70 who was arrested and banished to Sudan for 12 years soon after his entrance into Egypt. Other early Bahá'ís in Egypt were Haji Báqir-i-Káshání and Siyyid Husayin-i-Káshání who took up residence in Egypt during the period Bahá'u'lláh was in Adrianople. Another early Bahá'í was Hag Hassan Khurásáni who held weekly meetings in his home. Bahá'u'lláh and his family left Adrianople on 12 August 1868 and after a journey by land and sea through Gallipoli and Egypt arrived in `Akká on 31 August, and confined in the barracks in the citadel in the city. From then on many well known Bahá'ís spent time in Egypt or joined the religion there. Nabíl-i-A`zam made several journeys on behalf of Bahá'u'lláh and was imprisoned in Egypt in 1868. Robert Felkin was in Egypt circa 1880s and published a number of books -later he converted to the religion. In 1892 two converts in Egypt embarked to the West intending to spread the religion and were the first Bahá'ís to enter the United States where the first converts followed in 1894.\n\n Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl-i-Gulpáygání, often called Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, was one of the prominent Bahá'ís to pioneer to Egypt and made some of the first big changes to the community. Abu'l-Fadl first came to Cairo in 1894 where he settled for several years. He worked at Al-Azhar University and was successful in converting more than fourteen and up to thirty of the teachers and students including the first native Egyptians to convert to the religion. Abu'l-Fadl also became friends with writers and magazine publishers, and many articles that he authored appeared in the Egyptian press. In 1896, when Nasiru'd-Din Shah was assassinated in Iran, Za`imu'd-Dawlih used the rumour that the assassination had been performed by Bahá'ís to cause a massacre of the Bahá'ís in Egypt. Abu'l-Fadl stood up in defence for the Bahá'ís and stated that he himself was a Bahá'í and his allegiance became public. Two publications came out during this time from Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl:\n\n\nFollowing their publication al-Azhar University decreed that he was an infidel. From 1901 to 1904 at the request of `Abdu'l-Bahá he traveled and gave talks among the new Bahá'í community in the United States. Meanwhile, the Egyptian community continued to publish materials and from 1900 to 1910 several articles and books including official Bahá'í literature were published in Cairo. Abu'l-Fadl died in 1914 is buried in the cemetery called Al-Rawda Al-Abadeyya, the Eternal Garden. \n\nCirca 1887 `Abdu'l-Bahá met the Egyptian reformer Muhammad Abduh while both were in Lebanon wherein Abduh had a clearly positive impression of him.\n\nAfter a further period of imprisonment westerners became interested in meeting him as well. Thornton Chase, the first Bahá'í of the West, came in 1907, and he wrote a book about it. `Abdu'l-Bahá, highly impressed by Chase's qualities, conferred on him the title \"thábit\", \"steadfast.\" Stanwood Cobb managed to meet `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, after an accidental meeting with Lua Getsinger in 1908 in Egypt. `Abdu'l-Bahá traveled to Egypt in September 1910 after being released following events of the Young Turk Revolution. This was the initial event of a series of journeys he took. Sometime from late September to mid-August 1910 until the winter of 1913, `Abdu'l-Bahá would travel from Egypt to various countries and back in two successive trips – first to Europe, second to America (United States and Canada) and back to Europe on the return trip. Before, between, and on return he would stop in Egypt. See `Abdu'l-Bahá's journeys to the West. Wellesley Tudor Pole became a Bahá'í after traveling to Egypt to interview him in November 1910. In the same year, `Abdu'l-Bahá referred to an early Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Cairo. Playwright Isabella Grinevskaya traveled to meet `Abdu'l-Bahá in Egypt and became a member of the religion. Louis Gregory visited `Abdu'l-Bahá at Ramleh in 1911. `Abdu'l-Bahá was about to make long travels to the West. Just before `Abdu'l-Bahá's first trip, a message from Lady Blomfield extended an invitation for `Abdu'l-Bahá when he was in London. `Abdu'l-Bahá then set sail 11 August 1911, reached as far as London, and returned in early December to rest for the winter. His next trip was more extensive and reached to California. He left 25 March 1912 and returned 17 June 1913 and on return stayed in Egypt almost six months before returning to Haifa/Akka. Upon his return he gave a number of talks. These were eventually published as \"`Abdu'l-Bahá in Egypt\". After `Abdu'l-Bahá returned to Haifa, Martha Root stayed there for six months in 1915. One of the earliest Bahá'ís of the west and a Disciple of `Abdu'l-Bahá, Lua Getsinger, died in 1916 and she was buried in Egypt. And following `Abdu'l-Bahá laying the cornerstone for the first Bahá'í House of Worship of the West, the Bahá'ís from Cairo, Port Said and Alexandria contributed to the Fund for its construction in Wilmette, Illinois. During World War I Bahá'ís in Port Said were pillaged twice. Meanwhile, Tudor Pole was stationed in Egypt and was directly involved in addressing the concerns raised by Ottoman threats against `Abdu'l-Bahá. As the battle lines advanced from Egypt through Palestine, the Ottomans had threatened that `Abdu'l-Bahá would be killed if the Ottomans had been forced to leave the region. This threat was taken seriously by the British Military who then sought to make his protection part of the plans for the Palestine theatre. General Allenby altered his plans for the prosecution of the war and succeeded in protecting `Abdu'l-Bahá.\n\nIn the period between the world wars,public opposition to Bahá'ís became more widespread as the religion grew and in addition to growing, the Bahá'ís of Egypt began to publish materials to be more easily read. At the death of `Abdul-Bahá in 1921, Shoghi Effendi left England with the assistance of Lady Blomfield and stopped in Egypt to change boats for Haifa.\n\nThe assembly of Alexandria was formed in 1924 for the first time and Subhê Eliçs was among the elected – he was re-elected until 1961 and left an oral history recorded from his experiences in the community in 1977. It was also the year of the first election of the regional National Spiritual Assembly of Egypt and Sudan. In 1928 the \"Bulletin\" was first published by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Egypt, in English, Arabic and Persian. The national conventions continued to elect the national assembly. By 1930 most of the Egyptian Bahá'ís were native Egyptians and despite circumstances an Egyptian Bahá'í woman was able to attend the 1931 Women's Conference of All-Asia held in Lahore, Burma. Marie of Edinburgh, another western Bahá'í, was able to stop at Egypt for a time but failed to make landfall in Haifa. In early 1934 Sabri Elias pioneered to what was then called Abyssinia, (see Bahá'í Faith in Ethiopia) where he was soon joined by further Egyptians by mid-1934 – enough to elect the first Assembly in Addis Ababa. In 1935 the national assembly saw to the translation of the Kitáb-i-Íqán into Arabic and its publication. The Bahá'ís returned from Ethiopia when war was breaking out. Meanwhile, the publishing committee of Alexandria published the Tablet to The Hague in one of the local papers on the occasion of the question of peace. By early 1937 Mostafa Kamel of Egypt was able to act as a youth international correspondent for a youth newsletter.\n\n1924 began with an apparent triumph when following a controversy over a burial of a Bahá'í in a Muslim cemetery, Egypt became the first Islamic state to legally recognize the Bahá'í Faith as an independent religion separate from Islam and creating two cemeteries for the Bahá'ís – one in Cairo and the other in Ismaïlia. As a result of the decision when certain Muslims attacked Bahá'ís in Kom El-Sayeda the perpetrators were excommunicated from Islam for the attack. In 1936 following interest from citizens of Belqas as well as visitors from Tanta it became known that Saad Effendi Salim Nosseir was a Bahá'í and opposition was stirred up such that the interested citizens and Nosseir were unable to leave their homes. Nossier, being a public servant, appealed for a change in residence and serve in another district and was at first refused despite his good reputation. However, in time he was transferred. And in late 1938 there were extraordinary events concerning the burial of Mohammed Effendi Soliman of Ismaïlia who had died 9 December 1938. Having informed family and friends of his wish for a Bahá'í funeral, and drawing up a Will requiring his heirs to submit to the Local Assembly of Ismaïlia, the assembly informed the police of the papers and arrangements. A non-Bahá'í brother agitated against this funeral and became so threatening that he was detained by the police. However, when it came time to take the casket to the cemetery a large angry crowd made travel impossible despite police protection. That night the casket was transferred to police headquarters though fighting injured eight policemen. On the next day after midnight a truck took the casket out of town to be buried in the desert sands. The home of the deceased was attacked by a mob, and demonstnitions were continued in the streets throughout the night. In 1939, after the national assembly elections, petition was made to have Bahá'í marriage ceremonies legal in Egypt – as part of the justification a copy of a marriage contract issued by the Spiritual Assembly of Haifa and legalized by both Palestine authorities and the Egyptian Consulate in Jerusalem was enclosed. However, by 1944 a Bahá'í marriage was compulsorily annulled because the wife had originally been Moslem, in spite of her statement in court that she now considered herself a Bahá'í. Sabri Elias married and went on Bahá'í pilgrimage and then returned to Ethiopia and then some years later went on to Djibouti. Shoghi Effendi came through Egypt during a personal trip with his wife Rúhíyyih Khanum through Africa in 1940.\n\nFollowing permission being granted in 1941, the remains of Lua Getsinger were transferred in 1943 to be next to the transferred remains of Abu'l-Fadl (she facing west, he east, at the direction of Shoghi Effendi) to the Bahá'í Cemetery in Cairo, that was ornamented by 1947. However opposition also continued to grow – though work on translation had begun in 1934, in 1942 Egyptian police confiscated Arabic translations of The Dawn-breakers. After many efforts by the National Assembly, the confiscated copies were released on condition that this book should not be distributed in Egypt or sent out of the country. The Censorship Bureau of the Egyptian Ministry of the Interior requested the Assembly to renew their guarantee every fifteen days that the said book will not be put in circulation. Also in 1942 Hand of the Cause Abdu'l-Jalil Bey Sa'd, a notable student of Abu'l-Fadl, died and was buried with memorial services called for in the east and west.\n\nDespite the ongoing World War, some 200 Bahá'ís, including from Egypt and other nearby areas, were able to gather for 3 days in May 1944 at the Shrine of the Báb to commemorate the centenary of the founding of the Bahá'í Faith. Inside Egypt some 500 Bahá'ís were able to gather to mark the event at the national center. During the three days of events in Cairo, talks were presented on \"The Position of Women in the Bahá'í Cause\", \"The life of Qurratu'l-`Ayn\" (see Táhirih), \"The Accord between Religion and Science\", \"Why Bahá'ís feel tranquility\", and various quotes from Bahá'í literatures. By the end of 1944 there were four assemblies (Cairo, Alexandria, Port-Said, Isma'iliyyih) and an additional 16 smaller communities in Egypt, and the Bahá'í community in Egypt began to include Kurdish, Coptic, and Armenian peoples.\n\nBy the end of the 1940s assemblies in Egypt had been extended into Suez, Tanta and Sohag. During this period of growth pioneers went beyond the Middle East to Scotland. A public lending library was established in Cairo to satisfy inquires being made but anti-Bahá'í pamphlets were published and posted in Tanta instigating violence and individuals in other cities were actually attacked. Opposition began to reach out from Egypt in the form of article in an Egyptian Daily newspaper circulated in the United States published a story subtitled \"Necessity of a Moslem Cultural Center in America to Inform the Americans of the True Moslem Cult.\" And attacks in Tanta escalated to the point that a government official publicly addressed the summoned ringleaders saying \"Your evil deeds have shown you to be far removed from the teachings of Islám for Islám is a religion of peace\" and made them sign a statement of good behavior. In May 1948 Shoghi Effendi announced goals for the Egyptian Bahá'í community evolving increasing the number of assemblies, smaller groups of Bahá'ís, and purchases of lands. A number of events and incidents brought the religion to the awareness of diverse audiences. There were formal representations from the Egyptian Bahá'í community to the government, invitations to Egyptian leaders and random incidents and in the public media. There were specific developments in the community in 1951. An assembly was established in El-Mahalla El-Kubra, and it was announced that the Egyptian Government had given recognition to Bahá'í marriages. At this time women were allowed to be and were elected according to the rules of Bahá'í administration to local assemblies in Cairo, Alexandria, and Port Said, (indeed some were elected officers in 1952.) Also publishing Bahá'í material resumed which had been curtailed for a time. And a wave of pioneers left Egypt in 1951 for North and Central Africa (see Bahá'í Faith in Uganda for a start.)\n\nThe Sudan/Egypt regional National Assembly existed until 1953 when it became a regional assembly for North East Africa. It included French Somaliland; Egypt, Sudan, Abyssinia, Libya, Eritrea, British Somaliland; Italian Somaliland; and Socotra Is. The Bahá'í summer school in Alexandria began having integrated classes with women and men in 1953 and a newsreel carrying the dedication of the Bahá'í Temple in Wilmette was shown in movie houses in Egypt. In 1955 two new assemblies in Egypt were elected – Damanhur and Shibin El Kom in 1956 in El Mansoura In 1959 the Bahá'ís held their first winter school. At this time the Bahá'ís may have reached 3000 in Egypt. Sabri Elias with his family returned from pioneering to Ethiopia and beyond back to Egypt in 1959. By the late 1950s, there were approximately 5,000 Egyptian Bahá'ís and organized communities of Bahá'ís in 13 cities.\n\nHowever, since a regime change in 1960, the Bahá'ís lost all rights as an organized religious community by Decree 263 which specified a minimum sentence of six months' imprisonment or a fine for any assembly-related activities. This law came into being seven years after the declaration of the Arab Republic of Egypt, at the decree of then-President Gamal Abdel Nasser. All Bahá'í community properties, including Bahá'í centers, libraries, and cemeteries, were confiscated by the government except the cemetery Al-Rawda Al-Abadeyya. In obedience to the government is a core principal of the religion. In 1963, Bahá'í communities were still counted in Abu Qir, Mansoura, Alexandria, Port Said, Cairo, Zeitoun, and Ismaïlia. The 1971 Egyptian constitution specified \"the state shall guarantee the freedom of belief and the freedom of practice of religious rites\" however the 1975 Egyptian Supreme Court upheld the legality of the law and ruled constitutional protections only extended to the three “heavenly” religions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam. From 1965 to 2001 there were 236 arrests of Baha’is, charged under Article 98(f) of the Penal Code which proscribes “disparaging contempt of any divinely-revealed religion or its adherents, or prejudicing national unity or social harmony.” Albert-Ludwig University of Freiberg’s Professor of Islamic Studies, Johanna Pink, has suggested the government was not so much concerned with the Bahá'ís being a real threat, but was attempting to “legitimise” its authority in the eyes of the people, presenting themselves as “defenders” of Egypt as an Islamic state. There were episodic waves of arrests of Bahá'ís in the mid-1960s, 1972 and 1985. In early 1987 48 Bahá'ís had sentences pronounced against them for activities as Bahá'ís. However two were found not guilty after they recanted their faith. Charges against the Bahá'ís included gathering in small groups, praying together in private homes, and being in possession of Bahá'í holy writings and prayer books. Thirty-two of the Bahá'ís were acquitted in one bunch and 13 in another by mid-1988.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. However the current Egyptian Bahá'í community has had fatwas issued against it by Al-Azhar's Islamic Research Center, which charges Bahá'ís with apostasy in Islam. There are still allegations of Bahá'í involvement with other powers and accusations of \"using religion to promote deviant ideas to spark sedition or disdain the heavenly religions or their followers or to harm national unity.\" There have been homes burned down and families driven out of their communities.\n\nDuring and since the 2011 Egyptian revolution tensions have remained high – homes have been burnt though Bahá'ís contributed to the dialog. Since 2011 Bahá'ís while hopeful remain concerned and a Salafi spokesman has said of Bahá'ís \"We will prosecute the Bahai's (sic) on charge of treason.\" In the summer of 2012 Dwight Bashir, the Deputy Director for Policy and Research at the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, called the Bahá'ís in Egypt a \"litmus test\" as \"a compelling indicator of the trajectory\" Egyptian society was turning following the 2011 Egyptian revolution and outlined a number of myths about the religion showing examples of these myths being repeated in Egypt.\n\nIn late 2012 Dr. Ibrahim Ghoniem, acting Minister of Education and member of the Muslim Brotherhood stated his opinion the Bahá'í children would be excluded from the Egyptian school system. Related comments also put in doubt the status of the Identification Controversy. According to news coverage, in December 2014 a government ministry organized a workshop for Muslim imams held in Abbassia’s Al-Nour Mosque to \"raise awareness\" of the \"growing dangers of the spread of Baha’ism,\" to maintain \"national security and stability\" as Baha’i thought allegedly \"threatens Islam specifically and Egyptian society in general,\" and \"teach young imams how to respond to Bahá'í thoughts and arguments.\" Minister Mohamed Mokhtar Goma of the Ministry of Religious Endowments continue to portray the Bahá'ís as a threat to society in April 2015. Even listing the religion on purely administrative paperwork was considered a \"threat to public order\" in recent developments.\n\nSomaya Ramadan is an Egyptian academic, translator and award-winning writer. She was born in Cairo in 1951 and studied English at Cairo University. Subsequently she obtained a PhD in English from Trinity College, Dublin in 1983. She is a convert from Islam to the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nRamadan's first two books were short story collections - \"Khashab wa Nohass\" (\"Brass and Wood\", 1995) and \"Manazel el-Kamar\" (\"Phases of the Moon\", 1999). Her first novel \"Awraq Al-Nargis\" (\"Leaves of Narcissus\") was published to great acclaim in 2001 and won the Naguib Mahfouz Medal. It was then translated into English by Marilyn Booth and is available from the AUC Press.\n\nRamadan has also worked extensively as a translator. Among her notable translations is Virginia Woolf's \"A Room of One's Own\". She is a founding member of the Women and Memory Forum, a non-profit organisation, and teaches English and Translation at the National Academy of Arts in Cairo.\n\nHussein Bikar was born in Alexandria in 1912 and was one of the most famous Egyptian portrait painters. A member of the Bahá'í Faith he was arrested in the 1980s by the state security investigation bureau in a clamp-down on Bahá'ís in Egypt. Nevertheless, Bikar received the State Merit Award in 1978, the Merit Medal in 1980 and, in 2000, shortly before his death, the Mubarak Award. The Universal House of Justice, the highest governing body of the Bahá'í Faith, paid tribute to his contributions to Egyptian society after his death in 2002.\n\nThe controversy resulted from a ruling of the Supreme Administrative Council of Egypt on 16 December 2006 against the Bahá'ís stating that the government may not recognize the Bahá'í Faith in official identification cards.\n\nThe ruling left Bahá'ís unable to obtain the necessary government documents to have rights in their country unless they lied about their religion, which conflicts with Bahá'í religious principle. However a 2008 ruling accepted the compromise solution offered by the Bahá'ís, allowing for them to obtain identification papers without the Bahá'í Faith being officially recognized, however through February 2009 there have been appeals and procedural choices made trying not to give such cards. The first identification cards were issued to two Bahá'ís, though, under the new policy on 8 August 2009.\n\nThere are recent reports of 500 to 2,000 or even more than 3000 or so Bahá'ís in Egypt. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated over 7227 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42408650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42408650", "title": "Baruch Abuhatzeira", "text": "Baruch Abuhatzeira\n\nBaruch Abuhatzeira (; born 1941), also known as Baba Baruch, is an Israeli Kabbalist rabbi and spiritual adviser who operates in Netivot, a blue-collar town in southern Israel. He is the son of the leading Moroccan Sephardic rabbi Israel Abuhatzeira, also known as the Baba Sali.\n\nBaruch was born in Arfoud in the Meknès-Tafilalet of the Maghreb region in eastern Morocco. There, he was educated by his father. During his youth Baruch spent several years in Paris. In the mid-1960s, Baruch emigrated to Israel with his father, and he decided to pursue a political career. He was elected deputy mayor in Ashkelon. Abuhatzeira was later tried and sentenced to five years in prison for corruption and bribery connected to his role as deputy mayor. After obtaining an early release, Abuhatzeira joined Baba Sali, and was with his father during the last three months of the Rabbi's life.\n"}
{"id": "245650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245650", "title": "Caodaism", "text": "Caodaism\n\nCaodaism (, Chữ nôm: 道高臺) is a monotheistic syncretic religion officially established in the city of Tây Ninh in southern Vietnam in 1926. The full name of the religion is Đại Đạo Tam Kỳ Phổ Độ (The Great Faith [for the] Third Universal Redemption).\n\n\"Cao Đài\" (, literally the \"Highest Lord\" or \"Highest Power\") is the supreme deity, believed by Caodaists to have created the universe. Caodaists often use the term \"Đức Cao Đài\" (\"Venerable High Lord\") as the abbreviated name, whose full title is \"Cao Đài Tiên Ông Đại Bồ Tát Ma Ha Tát\" (\"The Highest Power [the] Ancient Immortal [and] Great Bodhisattva\"). The symbol of the faith is the Left Eye of God, representing the yang (masculine, ordaining, positive and expansive) activity of the male creator, which is balanced by the yin (âm) activity of Mother Goddess, the Queen Mother of the West (Diêu Trì Kim Mẫu, Tây Vương Mẫu), the feminine, nurturing and restorative mother of humanity.\n\nAdherents engage in practices such as prayer, veneration of ancestors, nonviolence, and vegetarianism with the goal of union with God and freedom from saṃsāra. Estimates of the number of Caodaists in Vietnam vary; government figures estimate 4.4 million Caodaists affiliated to the Tây Ninh church, with numbers rising up to 6 million if other branches are added. An additional number of adherents in the tens of thousands, primarily ethnic Vietnamese, live in North America, Europe, and Australia. The design, shape and coloring of Caodaist temples is quite standard around the world and includes the incorporation of sacred images, symbols, and colors.\nNgô Văn Chiêu, a district head of the French administration in Cochinchina, was the first to worship and receive messages from Cao Đài in 1921. He received a vision of the Divine Eye which is now the symbol for Cao Đài as well as the focus for worship on all Cao Đài altars.\n\nAdherents maintain that on Christmas Eve 1925, God identified Himself to the first group of Cao Đài mediums, which included Phạm Công Tắc, Cao Quỳnh Cư, and Cao Hoài Sang. These three figures were to play an essential role in the growing religion as the three founding spirit mediums of the Hiệp Thiên Đài or \"Palace Uniting Heaven and Earth\". Phạm Công Tắc was the head spirit medium or Hộ Pháp (\"Defender of the Dharma), while Cao Quỳnh Cư was the Thượng Phẩm (his Sacred Assistant) and Cao Hoài Sang was the Thượng Sanh (his Secular Assistant). \n\nOn 7 Oct 1926, Lê Văn Trung (a former elected official of the Colonial Council of Cochinchina and a member of the Conseil de Gouvernement de l'Indochine), and a leading group of 27 Caodaists, the first disciples of Cao Đài, signed the \"Declaration of the Founding of the Cao Đài Religion\" and presented it to the French Governor of Cochinchina. The Cao Đài faith brought together a number of once underground sects into a new national religion.\n\nOfficially called the \"Great Way of the Third Time of Redemption\" (\"Đại Đạo Tam Kỳ Phổ Độ\"), it became popular in its first few decades, gathering over a million members and converting a fifth to a fourth of the population of Cochinchina by 1940.\n\nIn the 1930s, the leader criticized the French colonial regime, though he also emphasized dialogue with the French. This stance was controversial, and contrasted with the liturgy of dozens of \"dissident\" branches of Caodaism that followed a more Taoist model.\n\nDuring the First and Second Indochina Wars, members of Cao Đài (along with several other Vietnamese sects, such as Hòa Hảo) were active in political and military struggles against both French colonial forces and South Vietnamese Prime Minister Ngô Đình Diệm.\n\nTheir critique of the communist forces until 1975 was a factor in their repression after the fall of Saigon in 1975, when the incoming communist government banned the practice of Caodaism. In 1997, Caodaism was granted legal recognition and unrestricted practice once again.\n\nThe official name of the Cao Đài religion (or Caodaism) is \"Đại Đạo Tam Kỳ Phổ Độ\". Translated directly it means: The Third Great Universal Religious Amnesty. (\"Đại Đạo\" – \"Great Faith\", \"Tam Kỳ\" – \"Third Period\", \"Phổ\" – \"to announce\" and \"Độ\" – \"to save\"). \n\nAccording to Cao Đài's dogma, this Third Period will be of intense religious activity which will unite God and humanity in ways not yet imagined. Cao Đài also states that the Third Amnesty will establish a new great faith for the salvation of living beings before the universal destruction. The primary objective of the Third Amnesty is the unity of all religions, which will bring mankind together in a universal family for universal peace.\n\nCaodaism teaches that, throughout human history, God the Father has revealed his truth many times through the mouths of many prophets, but these messages were always either ignored or forgotten due to humanity’s susceptibility to secular desires. Adherents believe that the age has now come when God speaks to humanity directly.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, Spiritism became established in Europe. The likes of Madam Blavatsky, Allan Kardec and Victor Hugo championed new religious possibilities. In Vietnam, the age-old traditions of Asian divination and mediumship began to mix with the new traditions of European Spiritism.\n\nTo highlight this objective of unity, there is a representation of the Divine Covenant of The Third Amnesty (The Third Alliance) inside every Cao Đài Temple. This Covenant between Heaven and Earth is written and presented to humanity by the Venerable Saints – Victor Hugo, Sun Yat Sen and Trạng Trình Nguyễn Bỉnh Khiêm. Their mission is said to guide humanity into the way of the Third Amnesty. The Covenant is written in French: \"\"Dieu et Humanité Amour et Justice\"; and in Chinese: 天上天下 博愛公平. This translates into English as: \"God and Humanity [for] Love and Justice.\"\n\n\"Cao Đài\" refers to God the Father (the Supreme Being, the Creator, the Ultimate Reality of the Universe). \"Cao Đài Tiên Ông Đại Bồ Tát Ma Ha Tát\", as God's full title, indicates a combination of the three main religions – Confucianism, Taoism, and Chinese Buddhism.\n\n\nTogether, they represent not only the unification of the three main religions but also the humility of God who presents himself as the lowest rank of Divinity.\n\nCaodaists adopt the traditional Chinese idea of \"âm\" (yin) and \"dương\" (yang) duality constituting the harmonious balance of the universe. Before the creation of the universe there was the \"dao\", the infinite, nameless, formless, unchanging, eternal source. The negative and positive principles of the universe are the components of the eternal nature.\n\nThere are two main Gods, the \"Cao Đài\" (\"Highest Lord\") and the \"Diêu Trì Kim Mẫu\" or \"Đức Phật Mẫu\" (\"Holy Mother\"). They represent respectively the yang and yin forces. \"Cao Đài\" is viewed as the heart of the universe, the common Father of all beings. He imparts part of Him into each living being, including even rocks, in the form of conscience. \"Đức Phật Mẫu\" is venerated as the Mother of the universe, responsible for giving visible forms, consciousness and emotions to all life. Ultimately, She has to follow the orders of \"Đức Cao Đài\", who is revered as the Supreme Being of both Heaven and Earth.\n\nAll other Divine Beings are to obey the orders of these two Creators during the course of evolution of the universe. Each of them carries a specific role as designated by their Father and Mother. Any being who falls out against them is considered devils in nature. These devils are led by the most powerful being, named Kim Quang Sứ (Satan).\n\nIn terms of the cosmos, faithful Caodaists believe there are heaven and hell, which are the main destinations for souls after death. Heaven consists of thirty six planes and many heavenly realms upon each of them, e.g. the Realm of Saints, the Realm of the Holy Mother, the Realm of the Perfect Beings, the Divine Court Realm, The Paradise of Extreme Joy, Nirvana, etc. Meanwhile, hell has ten key realms to carry out punishments in accordance with sins of souls.\n\nIn order to go to heaven, souls are required to cultivate their virtues and/or devote themselves to spiritual causes. Without merit from the latter, they cannot escape the cycle of birth and death, but can improve their virtues and merit gradually to reach better places in the universe, including the 72 planets (ours is the 68th), the 3,000 worlds, the four great cosmic regions, and the thirty six heavenly planes. True liberation can only be attained when souls reach Nirvana, i.e. the realm of Divine Beings with the most virtues, merits, and wisdom.\n\nThe father of the universe, Cao Đài, is believed to have communed with men since the beginning of times, revealing his will. According to Cao Đài doctrine, history is divided into three times (\"tam kỳ\") of revelation. In the first two periods, there were teachings of Dipankara Buddha, sages, Phục Hy, Gautama Buddha, Laozi, Confucius and Jesus, who received the will of the Highest Power, and founded their respective religions to serve and/ or educate humanity. But due to the frailty of the messengers and the common men, the will of the Highest Power was misled into corrupted forms. Caodaists also believe that former revelations were culture-bound, being applicable only for certain ethnicities, and primarily intended for specific ages. The third and final form of revelation is disclosed through the teachings of the Cao Đài faith.\n\nCaodaists believe that there are various ranks of divine spirits: \"Thần\" (\"angels\"), \"Thánh\" (\"saints\"), \"Tiên\" (\"Immortals\"), and \"Phật\" (\"Buddhas\"). Each of these ranks can be further divided in the three grades of \"Thiên\" (Heavenly), \"Nhân\" (Human) and \"Địa\" (Earthly), forming a twelve-fold hierarchy that reflects the twelve-fold earthly hierarchy of the Caodaist church. Below those ranks are the spirits of matters, plants, animals and humans. All spirits may evolve to attain higher rank based on present deeds. Disembodied spirits fulfill a number of roles: they are benefactors of mankind, messengers and instructors of the truth. Quan Âm is regarded as the exemplary goddess of the Buddhas, Lý Bạch of the Immortals, and Quan Vũ of the Saints.\n\nUnknown to most outsiders, Joan of Arc is worshipped in the Cao Đài pantheon. She is seen as having guided the Faith at its inception and promoted full equality for women (via séances). The Cao Đài pantheon also has many other well-known figures, including Muhammad, Moses, Louis Pasteur, Shakespeare, and Lenin. Victor Hugo is probably the most important European figure to play a role in the Caodai pantheon, since he gave many teachings and also the text of a number of important prayers. He himself practiced spiritism on the island of Jersey from 1852 to 1855, and predicted that he would become the prophet of a new religion to merge European and Asian mysticism. Reports that Winston Churchill and Charlie Chaplin were also \"saints\" are based on an inaccurate 1956 \"Time\" magazine article, since both of them were still alive at the time.\n\nThe doctrines of the Cao Đài faith tends not only to reconcile all religious views, but also to adapt itself to all degrees of spiritual evolution. A basic principle of Caodaism is \"All Religions are One\". Cao Đài has been described from five different points of view:\n\nBelievers worship God the Father, Holy Mother and the Divine Beings with all their heart. They also venerate the Great Religious Prophets of history and honour the ancestors.\n\nThere are four daily ceremonies, that is, at 06:00, Midday, 18:00 and midnight, either at the temple or in front of the home altar. Monthly rituals take place on midnight of the 1st and 15th days of the lunar month. There is also a special anniversary ceremony once a year for God the Father, the Holy Mother, the five founders of the world’s major religions, and the founders of the Cao Dai religion.\nThe rituals differ between places, depending on who they pray to.\nThere are also differences between monthly rituals, and anniversary ones.\n\nCeremonial prescriptions such as actions, dress and music were organized in detail by God the Father. These include ceremonies for initiations, marriages and funerals. Particular attention is paid to death, and it has been revealed to the religion how the soul journeys towards heaven and how, on earth, co-religionists can pray for souls to help them on their way.\n\nCao Đài temples and religious buildings host a rich array of symbols, all of which are instructed by either God the Father or Divine Beings. No symbol is redundant, and none is meaningless. They each tell a different story that reveals the beliefs, values, cosmic secrets, prophecies, etc. When combined, they lay out the journey of the Tao throughout the history of mankind and the universe, as well as its way forward.\n\nIn spirit and in pictorial representation, the Eye serves to remind Cao Đài believers that the God witnesses everything, everywhere, constantly. At the Holy See, there are in total 50 Divine Eyes of five different shapes; each carrying a different meaning related to various spiritual aspects. The One on the globe shows the Supreme Being above the North Star in the Ursa Minor constellation. The One on the façade of the Holy See has 35 rays of light which represent the three major religions and five main religious doctrines of the world. At the local Cao Đài Temples, the Divine Eye has 16 rays of light emanating from it. Nine radiate upward representing the nine levels of heaven, and seven radiating downward representing the seven emotions, which believers must control.\n\nIn accordance with the religious mission, the three colors of Cao Đài banner represent the three main religions of the world; yellow stands for Buddhism, blue for Taoism, and red for Confucianism. Under the Divine Eye is the religious emblem which also represents the essence of the three religions; the bowl of charity for Buddhist compassion and asceticism, the feather duster for Taoist purification; the Spring and Autumn Annals for Confucianist virtue and love.\n\nThere are various Caodaist scriptures. Some of those belonging to the Holy See of Tây Ninh are: \"Kinh Thiên Đạo Và Thế Đạo\" (\"Prayers of the Heavenly and the Earthly Way\"), \"Pháp Chánh Truyền\" (\"the Religious Constitution of Cao Đài Religion\"), \"Tân Luật\" (\"The Canonical Codes\"), and \"Con Đường Thiêng Liêng Hằng Sống\" (\"Divine Path to Eternal Life\"). Other sects have additional scriptures.\n\nThis scripture sets out the rules and boundaries for different aspects of the religion, from a believer to the Pope, from education to marriage, etc. There are ten sections in the scripture with the following content:\n\nThe Phap-Chanh-Truyen (The Religious Constitution of Caodaism) was delivered to the religion as a series of divine messages. These are the guiding texts of the religion's organisation, stipulating the authority, responsibility, limits, as well as religious vestment for each rank in the religion.\n\nThe organisational structure of the Caodaist church has similarities with that of a state. There are similarities between the hierarchy of the Caodaist clergy and that of the Catholic Church. Besides the Pope, the Caodaist hierarchy has Cardinals, Bishops, Priests, and further ranks.\n\nCaodaism stresses equality among men and women in society. However, in the spiritual domain, ordained women may not attain the two highest positions: the Legislative Cardinal and the Pope. The church claims this is ordered by the Highest Lord, who declared that because \"Dương\" (Yang) represents male and \"Âm\" (Yin) corresponds to female, Yin cannot dominate Yang spiritually or else chaos ensues.\n\nThe Religion is governed by two powers, the spiritual and earthly ones.\n\nThe spiritual power (Bát Quái Đài): This is the heavenly council, that is, the Spirit and Soul of the New Religion. The council directs all activities of the universe. The council is the invisible part, made up of the Divine Beings, and directed by Duc Cao Dai (God the Father). The Divine Beings represent different religions of the world, including:\n\nThe earthly power: To avoid dictatorship, God divided the earthly power into two bodies – an Executive Body (Cửu Trùng Đài) headed by the Pope, and a Legislative Body (Hiệp Thiên Đài) headed by the Hộ Pháp (Protector of Laws and Justice). The former takes charge of the administration of the Religion and its missionary activities, while the latter oversees legislation, jurisdiction and communication with God or Divine Beings. There is also the Charitable Body placed under the supervision of the Legislative Body, and a Lay Committee of selected professional specialists among worthy followers.\n\nThe \"Cửu Trùng Ðài\" is the Executive Body of Caodaism which takes charge of the administration of the Religion and missionary activities. Head of \"Cửu Trùng Ðài\" is \"Giáo-Tông\" (Pope).\nThere are nine ranks in its hierarchy:\n\nFor male dignitaries of the Executive Body, from the rank of Censor Cardinal to that of Student Priest, each echelon is subdivided into three branches corresponding to the three principal religions:\nDignitaries of the same echelon, either Confucianist, Taoist or Buddhist, have the same attributes.\n\nAt the Holy See, there are three governing councils:\nAll plans made by the Popular Council and favoured by the Sacerdotal Council are submitted to High Council for approval.\n\nIn addition, there is also a Central Administration body chaired by three Cardinals. Each of them is assisted by three Principal Archbishops to oversee three religious ministries:\n\nThe administrative network which functions throughout Vietnam consists of:\n\nThis Body has the duty of communicating with Divine Beings, to preserve the religious laws and listen to the complaints of the unhappy. It is headed by the \"Hộ Pháp\" (protector of laws and justice), and assisted by the \"Thượng Phẩm\" (Director of religious affairs) and \"Thượng Sanh\" (Director of secular affairs).\n\nFour \"zodiacal dignitaries\" under each of these branches carry the four key responsibilities of conservation, renovation, reformation, and legislation. They are further assisted by twelve technical academicians, including Bảo Huyền Linh Quân (Theosophy), Bảo Tinh Quân (Astronomy), Bảo Cô Quân (Orphanage), Bảo Văn pháp quân (Culture), Bảo Học Quân (Education), Bảo Y Quân (Health), Bảo Vật Quân (Science and Industry, Bảo Sĩ Quân (Literature), Bảo Sanh Quân (Social work), Bảo Nông Quân (Agriculture), Bảo Công Quân (Public Works), Bảo Thương Quân (Economics).\n\nAny local area having more than 500 believers is authorized to establish a Parish (Họ Đạo/ Tộc Đạo) with a Thánh-Thất (Temple, Church, Holy House) which is led by the authority of a dignitary.\nParish/Parishes can be established only with the permission and authority of the Giao-Tong/ Pope.\n\nTwice a month, the first and the fifteenth day of the lunar calendar, the believers must meet at the Thánh-Thất (Temple, Holy House) of the local area to attend the ceremony and listen to the teachings. Exception can be made for those with reasonable excuses\n\nNinety kilometres north-west of Saigon in Tây-Ninh Province is the Caodaist Holy See. At the centre of this city stands the Great Divine Temple. This temple, like the religion, is a fusion of world influences. As well as being a major centre of pilgrimage, the Caodaist Holy See is also one of Vietnam's major tourist attractions.\n\nIn total, there are six different officially recognized branches of the Caodaist religion in southern Vietnam, as well as several others that remain unrecognized. These sects generally divide along geographic lines. The largest is based in Tây Ninh Province, where the religion was founded in 1926 and where the seat of the Caodaist authority is located.\n\nThe Caodaist Executive Council of Tây Ninh Province received official government recognition in 1997. Independent Caodaist groups allege that government interference has undermined the independence of the Tây Ninh group, and it no longer faithfully upholds \"Cao Đài\"'s principles and traditions. Religious training takes place at individual temples rather than at centralized seminaries. Some Caodaist sects that have broken away from the Tây Ninh Holy See are Chiếu Minh, Bến Tre, and Đà Nẵng. Ngô Văn Chiêu founded Chiếu Minh when he left the original church structure, refusing his appointment as Caodaism's first pope.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "239773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239773", "title": "Carmen Arvale", "text": "Carmen Arvale\n\nThe Carmen Arvale is the preserved chant of the Arval priests or \"Fratres Arvales\" of ancient Rome.\n\nThe Arval priests were devoted to the goddess Dia, and offered sacrifices to her to ensure the fertility of ploughed fields (Latin \"arvum\"). There were twelve Arval priests, chosen from patrician families. During the Roman Empire the Emperor was always an Arval priest. They retained the office for life, even if disgraced or exiled. Their most important festival, the Ambarvalia, occurred during the month of May, in a grove dedicated to Dia.\n\nThe \"Carmen Arvale\" is preserved in an inscription dating from 218 AD which contains records of the meetings of the Arval Brethren. It is written in an archaic form of Old Latin, likely not fully understood any more at the time the inscription was made.\n\nOne of its interpretations goes as follows:\n\nWhile passages of this text are obscure, the traditional interpretation makes the chant a prayer to seek aid of Mars and the Lares (\"lases\"), beseeching Mars not to let plagues or disasters overtake in the fields, asking him to be satiated, and dance, and call forth the \"Semones\", who may represent sacred sowers. (Cf. Semo Sancus, a god of good faith.) Semones are minor tutelary deities, in particular Sancus, Priapus, Faunus, all Vertumni, all Silvani, Bona Dea.The semones are probably the hidden life forces residing in seeds: they were presented only offers of milk in the earliest tradition.\n\n\"limen sali, sta\" means \"jump over the beam of the threshold/door/lintel, stand\" in standard Latin.\n\n"}
{"id": "6921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6921", "title": "Carmilla", "text": "Carmilla\n\nCarmilla is a Gothic novella by Irish author Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu and one of the early works of vampire fiction, predating Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\" (1897) by 26 years. First published as a serial in \"The Dark Blue\" (1871–72), the story is narrated by a young woman preyed upon by a female vampire named Carmilla, later revealed to be Mircalla, Countess Karnstein (Carmilla is an anagram of Mircalla). The character is a prototypical example of the lesbian vampire, expressing romantic desires toward the protagonist, and is depicted as a trait of antagonism inline with the contemporary views of homosexuality. The story is often anthologized and has been adapted many times in film and other media.\n\n\"Carmilla\", serialized in the literary magazine \"The Dark Blue\" in late 1871 and early 1872, was reprinted in Le Fanu's short story collection \"In a Glass Darkly\" (1872). Comparing the work of two illustrators to the story, David Henry Friston, with that of Michael Fitzgerald, whose work appears in the magazine article, but not in modern printings of the book, reveals inconsistencies in the characters' depictions. Consequently, confusion has arisen relating the pictures to the plot. Isabella Mazzanti illustrated the book's 2014 anniversary edition, published by Editions Soleil and translated by Gaid Girard.\n\nLe Fanu presents the story as part of the casebook of Dr. Hesselius, whose departures from medical orthodoxy rank him as the first occult detective in literature.\n\nLaura, the teenage protagonist, narrates, beginning with her childhood in a \"picturesque and solitary\" castle amid an extensive forest in Styria, where she lives with her father, a wealthy English widower retired from service to the Austrian Empire. When she was six, Laura had a vision of a beautiful visitor in her bedchamber. She later claims to have been punctured in her breast, although no wound was found.\n\nTwelve years later, Laura and her father are admiring the sunset in front of the castle when her father tells her of a letter from his friend, General Spielsdorf. The General was supposed to bring his niece, Bertha Rheinfeldt, to visit the two, but the niece suddenly died under mysterious circumstances. The General ambiguously concludes that he will discuss the circumstances in detail when they meet later.\n\nLaura, saddened by the loss of a potential friend, longs for a companion. A carriage accident outside Laura's home unexpectedly brings a girl of Laura's age into the family's care. Her name is Carmilla. Both girls instantly recognize the other from the \"dream\" they both had when they were young.\n\nCarmilla appears injured after her carriage accident, but her mysterious mother informs Laura's father that her journey is urgent and cannot be delayed. She arranges to leave her daughter with Laura and her father until she can return in three months. Before she leaves, she sternly notes that her daughter will not disclose any information whatsoever about her family, past, or herself, and that Carmilla is of sound mind. Laura comments that this information seems needless to say, and her father laughs it off.\n\nCarmilla and Laura grow to be very close friends, but occasionally Carmilla's mood abruptly changes. She sometimes makes romantic advances towards Laura. Carmilla refuses to tell anything about herself, despite questioning by Laura. Her secrecy is not the only mysterious thing about Carmilla; she never joins the household in its prayers, she sleeps much of the day, and she seems to sleepwalk outside at night.\n\nMeanwhile, young women and girls in the nearby towns have begun dying from an unknown malady. When the funeral procession of one such victim passes by the two girls, Laura joins in the funeral hymn. Carmilla bursts out in rage and scolds Laura, complaining that the hymn hurts her ears.\n\nWhen a shipment of restored heirloom paintings arrives, Laura finds a portrait of her ancestor, Mircalla, Countess Karnstein, dated 1698. The portrait resembles Carmilla exactly, down to the mole on her neck. Carmilla suggests that she might be descended from the Karnsteins even though the family died out centuries before.\n\nDuring Carmilla's stay, Laura has nightmares of a large cat-like beast entering her room. The beast springs onto the bed and Laura feels something like two needles, an inch or two apart, darting deep into her breast. The beast then takes the form of a female figure and disappears through the door without opening it. In another nightmare, Laura hears a voice say, \"Your mother warns you to beware of the assassin,\" and a sudden light reveals Carmilla standing at the foot of her bed, her nightdress drenched in blood. Laura's health declines, and her father has a doctor examine her. He finds a small blue spot, an inch or two below her collar, where the creature in her dream bit her, and speaks privately with her father, only asking that Laura never be unattended.\n\nHer father then sets out with Laura, in a carriage, for the ruined village of Karnstein, three miles distant. They leave a message behind asking Carmilla and one of the governesses to follow once the perpetually late-sleeping Carmilla awakes. En route to Karnstein, Laura and her father encounter General Spielsdorf. He tells them his own ghastly story:\n\nAt a costume ball, Spielsdorf and his niece Bertha had met a beautiful young woman named Millarca and her enigmatic mother. Bertha was immediately taken with Millarca. The mother convinced the General that she was an old friend of his and asked that Millarca be allowed to stay with them for three weeks while she attended to a secret matter of great importance.\n\nBertha fell mysteriously ill, suffering the same symptoms as Laura. After consulting with a specially-ordered priestly doctor, the General realized that Bertha was being visited by a vampire. He hid with a sword and waited until a large black creature of undefined shape crawled onto his niece's bed and spread itself onto her throat. He leapt from his hiding place and attacked the creature, which had then taken the form of Millarca. She fled through the locked door, unharmed. Bertha died before the morning dawned.\n\nUpon arriving at Karnstein, the General asks a woodman where he can find the tomb of Mircalla Karnstein. The woodman says the tomb was relocated long ago by the hero, a Moravian nobleman, who vanquished the vampires that haunted the region.\n\nWhile the General and Laura are alone in the ruined chapel, Carmilla appears. The General and Carmilla both fly into a rage upon seeing each other, and the General attacks her with an axe. Carmilla disarms the General and disappears. The General explains that Carmilla is also Millarca, both anagrams for the original name of the vampire Mircalla, Countess Karnstein.\n\nThe party is joined by Baron Vordenburg, the descendant of the hero who rid the area of vampires long ago. Vordenburg, an authority on vampires, has discovered that his ancestor was romantically involved with the Countess Karnstein before she died and became one of the undead. Using his forefather's notes, he locates Mircalla's hidden tomb. An Imperial Commission exhumes the body of Mircalla/Millarca/Carmilla. Immersed in blood, it seems to be breathing faintly, its heart beating, its eyes open. A stake is driven through its heart, and it gives a corresponding shriek; then the head is struck off. The body and head are burned to ashes, which are thrown into a river.\n\nAfterward, Laura's father takes his daughter on a year-long tour through Italy to regain her health and recover from the trauma, which she never fully does.\n\nAs with \"Dracula\", critics have looked for the sources used in the writing of \"Carmilla\". One source used was from a dissertation on magic, vampires and the apparitions of spirits written by Dom Augustin Calmet entitled \"Traité sur les apparitions des esprits et sur les vampires ou les revenants de Hongrie, de Moravie, &c.\" (1751). This is evidenced by a report analyzed by Calmet, from a priest who learned information of a town being tormented by a vampiric entity three years earlier. Having traveled to the town to investigate and collecting information of the various inhabitants there, the priest learned that a vampire had tormented many of the inhabitants at night by coming from the nearby cemetery and would haunt many of the residents on their beds. An unknown Hungarian traveler came to the town during this period and helped the town by setting a trap at the cemetery and decapitating the vampire that resided there, curing the town of their torment. This story was retold by LeFanu and adapted into the thirteenth chapter of Carmilla \n\nAccording to Matthew Gibson, the Reverend Sabine Baring-Gould's \"The Book of Were-wolves\" (1863) and his account of Elizabeth Báthory, Coleridge's \"Christabel\" (Part 1, 1797 and Part 2, 1800), and Captain Basil Hall's \"Schloss Hainfeld; or a Winter in Lower Styria\" (London and Edinburgh, 1836) are other sources for Le Fanu's \"Carmilla\". Hall's account provides much of the Styrian background and, in particular, a model for both Carmilla and Laura in the figure of Jane Anne Cranstoun, Countess Purgstall.\n\nCarmilla, the title character, is the original prototype for a legion of female and lesbian vampires. Though Le Fanu portrays his vampire's sexuality with the circumspection that one would expect for his time, it is evident that lesbian attraction is the main dynamic between Carmilla and the narrator of the story:\n\nWhen compared to other literary vampires of the 19th century, Carmilla is a similar product of a culture with strict sexual mores and tangible religious fear. While Carmilla selected exclusively female victims, she only becomes emotionally involved with a few. Carmilla had nocturnal habits, but was not confined to the darkness. She had unearthly beauty, and was able to change her form and to pass through solid walls. Her animal alter ego was a monstrous black cat, not a large dog as in \"Dracula\". She did, however, sleep in a coffin. \"Carmilla\" works as a Gothic horror story because her victims are portrayed as succumbing to a perverse and unholy temptation that has severe metaphysical consequences for them.\n\nSome critics, among them William Veeder, suggest that \"Carmilla\", notably in its outlandish use of narrative frames, was an important influence on Henry James' \"The Turn of the Screw\" (1898).\n\nAlthough \"Carmilla\" is a lesser known and far shorter Gothic vampire story than the generally considered master work of that genre, \"Dracula\", the latter is heavily influenced by Le Fanu's novella. Stoker's posthumously published short story \"Dracula's Guest\" (1914), known as the deleted first chapter to \"Dracula\", shows a more obvious and intact debt to \"Carmilla\":\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(chronological) \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44981485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44981485", "title": "Chandrashekhar Vijay", "text": "Chandrashekhar Vijay\n\nPanyas Chandrashekhar Vijayji Maharaj Saheb (born Idravadan, 18 January 1934 – 8 August 2011), also known as Gurudev or Guruma, was a Jain monk, scholar and author. Born and educated in Mumbai, he was initiated as a monk who later designated \"Panyas\". He was involved in religious as well as sociopolitical activities. He founded several institutions and authored 261 books.\n\nHe was born on 18 January 1934 (Vikram Samvat 1990, Falgun Sud 5) in Bombay to Subhadraben and Kantilal Jivatlal Pratapshi. His family belonged to Radhanpur in present Banaskantha district. His birth name was Indravadan. He studied up to matriculation. He was initiated as a Jain monk by Prem Suri on 15 May 1952 (Vikram Samvat 2008, Vaisakh Vad 6) at Motisha Jain auditorium, Byculla, Mumbai and was given new name, Chandrashekhar Vijay. Later he was elevated to designation of \"Panyas\" on 2 December 1984 (Vikram Samvat 2041, Magshar Sud 10) at Navsari, Gujarat.\n\nHe led a nationwide campaign in 2002–2003 against the plan of opening 56,000 new abattoirs under NDA government in India. He initiated 87 disciples as Jain monks. He authored more than 261 books on various subject including religion, culture, nationalism, history, education, criticism and short stories. He established several religious and socio-cultural organizations such as Akhil Bharatiya Sanskruti Rakshak Dal and Vardhaman Sanskardham. He founded two schools which professes Indian cultural education, Tapovan Sanskardham at Navsari and Tapovan Sanskarpith near Ahmedabad. He was also considered as one of the best orators among Jain monks.\n\nHe died on 8 August 2011 (Vikram Samvat 2067, Shravan Sud 10) at Ambavadi, Ahmedabad. He was cremated at Tapovan Sanskarpith, Amiyapur, Gandhinagar where his memorial temple was constructed later.\n\nHe has written 261 books. \"Sadhnani Pagdandie\" was his first book. \"To Bharatno Uday Chapatima\" was his last. He inspired to start \"Muktidoot\", \"Virtidoot\" and \"Tapal Dwara Tatvagyan\" magazines. \"Nyaay Sidhaant Muktavali\", \"Avacchedkatva Niryukti\" and \"Samanya Niryukti\" are his books on Nyaya philosophy.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "41387231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41387231", "title": "Charles Hastings Collette", "text": "Charles Hastings Collette\n\nCharles Hastings Collette (1816–1901) was a British 19th-century solicitor and writer of Protestant popular controversialist apologetics. He was the father of actor Charles Henry Collette and the organizer of the Joseph Mendham library. As a volunteer in the First Middlesex Artillery, he compiled a handbook for drill instruction.\n\nHis \"Novelties of Romanism\", developed from a sermon, was translated into Spanish and, from Spanish, into Portuguese (under the translated name of \"Carlos\" Hastings Collette) and remains in print to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "33024720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33024720", "title": "David Max Eichhorn", "text": "David Max Eichhorn\n\nDavid Max Eichhorn (January 6, 1906 – July 16, 1986) was an American rabbi of Reform Judaism, a director for , a chaplain in the Army, an author, and an authority within Reform Judaism on the subjects of interfaith marriage and religious conversion.\n\nDavid Max Eichhorn was born in Columbia, Pennsylvania on January 6, 1906, the son of Joseph and Anna Eichhorn. He attended the Temple Shaarai Shomayim religious school in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, was confirmed there in 1921, and graduated from Columbia High School in 1923. He enrolled at Hebrew Union College in 1924. He graduated, and was ordained as a rabbi in 1931.\n\nEichhorn served as the first rabbi of Sinai Temple in Springfield, Massachusetts from 1932–1934, and was the rabbi at Sinai Temple in Texarkana, Arkansas from 1935–1938. In 1938, he received the degree of Doctor of Divinity from Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion. Eichhorn was the first rabbi of Temple Israel in Tallahassee, Florida from 1939–1942. He was also the first director for Hillel in the state of Florida at the University of Florida in Gainesville and Florida State College for Women in Tallahassee.\n\nIn 1941, Eichhorn enlisted in the Army as a chaplain. In July 1942, Eichhorn was stationed at Camp Croft in Spartanburg County, SC and evidently assisted the local Jewish congregation, which was then without a rabbi. Throughout World War II, Eichhorn was assigned to serve in combat units in France and Germany, and was among the troops that liberated Dachau.\n\nAfter returning from the war in 1945, Eichhorn retained his active military status in the United States Army Reserve. He worked for the Committee on Army and Navy Religious Activities (known later as the Commission on Jewish Chaplaincy) of the National Jewish Welfare Board as Director of Field Operations of the federal chaplaincy program. The Board is authorized by the Government to serve the religious needs of Jewish military personnel. He was also the president of the Association of Jewish Chaplains of the Armed Forces from 1953–1955. He retired from the military with the rank of lieutenant colonel in 1968.\nTemple Israel was founded in about 1965 or 66. It met in a church in Cocoa Beach, Florida until a permanent home was found. Land was purchased on Merritt Island, Florida. The congregation moved to their new home in 1970. Rabbi Eichhorn served as a part-time Rabbi to Temple Israel along with student Rabbi's starting in 1966. He officiated over the congregation's first Confirmation class ceremony June 16, 1967.\n\nHe resigned from the National Jewish Welfare Board in 1970.\nEichhorn lived in Satellite Beach, Florida and wrote a number of books. He was known primarily for research in the areas of interfaith marriage and religious conversion.\n\nEichhorn died on July 16, 1986 of a heart attack at Holmes Regional Medical Center in Melbourne, Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "9246157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9246157", "title": "Fanum Voltumnae", "text": "Fanum Voltumnae\n\nThe (‘shrine of Voltumna’) was the chief sanctuary of the Etruscans; \"fanum\" means a sacred place, a much broader notion than a single temple. Numerous sources refer to a league of the “Twelve Peoples” (\"lucumonies\") of Etruria, formed for religious purposes but evidently having some political functions. The Etruscan league of twelve city-states met annually at the Fanum, located in a place chosen as omphalos (sacred navel), the geographical and spiritual centre of the whole Etruscan nation. Each spring political and religious leaders from the cities would meet to discuss military campaigns and civic affairs and pray to their common gods. Chief amongst these was Voltumna (or Veltha), possibly state god of the Etruria.\n\nRoman historian Titus Livius mentioned the Fanum Voltumnae five times in his works and indicated \"...\"apud Volsinios\"...\" as the place where the shrine was located. Modern historians have been looking for the Fanum since at least the 15th century but the exact location of the shrine is still unknown, though it may have been in an area near modern Orvieto, believed by many to be the ancient Volsinii. Livy describes the meetings that took place at the Fanum between Etruscan leaders. Livy refers in particular to a meeting in which two groups applied to assist the city of Veii in a war it was waging. The council's answer was no, because Veii had declared war without first notifying it. Livy also says that Roman merchants who travelled to a huge fair attached to the meeting acted as spies, reporting back on Etruscan affairs to authorities in the city-state of Rome. Livy was alone in mentioning the god Voltumna, whereas Marcus Terentius Varro indicated a god-prince of Etruria. The Latin elegiac poet Propertius writes of an Etruscan god taken to Rome from Velzna (the town of Orvieto).\nThat the Fanum was somewhere in central Italy in the area between Orvieto and Viterbo is probable enough, but as Livy gave no clue to its locality, and as no inscriptions have thrown light on the subject, at the current time it can be but pure conjecture to assign to it this or that particular site.\n\nThe most credited hypothesis places the shrine in Orvieto. The \"Urbs Vetus\" of the Middle Ages is identified with the Etruscan Velzna by scholars, the Latin Volsinii, conquered by the Romans in 264 BC. Livy, Pliny, Florus, Horace, Metrodorus of Scepsis, all belonging to the 2nd century BC, clearly speak of ancient Volsinii, but never in relation to the Fanum Voltumnae. In the late 19th-century archaeologists uncovered parts of the walls and found large quantities of earthenware, and based on these findings in 1930s the archeologist Geralberto Buccolini set out the hypothesis that the Fanum was situated at the foot of Orvieto's tuff In particular, the Temple of Belvedere was discovered and identified as the Temple of Nortia.\n\nIn September 2006, Simonetta Stopponi, professor of Italic Archaeology and Etruscology at Macerata University (Italy), after extensive digs (begun in 2000 and financed by the Monte dei Paschi di Siena Bank, with ministerial permission) at a site near the hill town of Orvieto (esplanade \"Arcone\", former \"Campo della Fiera\", smallholding \"Giardino della Regina\") announced that the site at the feet of the Umbrian town probably was the location of the Fanum Voltumnae. \"It has all the characteristics of a very important shrine, and of that shrine in particular\" she said.\n\nListing some of those characteristics, she mentioned \"the scale of the construction, its intricate structure and layout, the presence of wells and fountains and the central temple building\".\n\nStructures of various periods have been identified, distributed over a very large area (a retaining wall in polygonal masonry, a paved street, etc.), and many fragments of architectural terracottas have been recovered (among which are some similar to those in Berlin), datable from Late Archaic period to Hellenistic times. Also supporting the claim that this is the Fanum Voltumnae is the fact that the area was used continuously for religious purposes right from the 6th century BC up to the 15th century. Roman temples were built on it in later centuries and the last church was erected there in the 12th century.\n\nIn November 2014, Professor Stopponi announced finding a head of the god of the Etruscans in the area of Orvieto. It is a polychrome terracotta male head. \"The head is very nice and well kept - said Professor Stopponi - An important discovery as well as that of the temple which measures 12 feet by 18\". A main temple and a sacred way have also been excavated.\n\nSome modern scholars have hypothesized that the location of Fanum Voltumnae was at Bagnoregio (probably on the hill of Civita di Bagnoregio), past possession of Orvieto and Etruscan walled town.\n\nBefore the discoveries in the Orvieto area, the archaeological site of Guado Cinto, a necropolis including the \"Tomb of the Queen\" near Tuscania, was one of the most credited locations of Fanum Voltumnae.\n\nThis hypothesis, presented in the 1950s by Mario Signorelli (1905-1990), an Italian music teacher, identified the sacred wood of the Etruscans in the peripheral areas of Viterbo named \"Riello\" and \"Macchia grande\". This area was central to the sacred wood, protected by four guardian towns which prevented it from being disclosed to the profane. The four towns were: Ferente (i.e. Ferentium), Axia (i.e. Castel d'Asso), Vrcle (Orcla, the centre of today's Norchia), Luserna (i.e. Musarna). The works of Signorelli followed the writings of the fifteenth-century forger Annio da Viterbo (1432–1502), who devoted his life to collecting legends and traditions ascribed to the Etruscans, and to inventing documents to support his histories.\n\nViterbo's heraldic badges are surrounded by the letters FAVL (read as FAUL), which appear like a ciphered globe. It is unclear what they refer to, but some claim that they are the initials of the guardian towns and some others that they are in reference to the initial syllables of Fanum Voltumnae. The latter was affirmed in the nineteenth century by Francesco Orioli, who also surmised that the Viterbo Cathedral was built on the site of the Fanum, in the Roman settlement Castrum Herculis. Viterbo, inasmuch as it contains a church named Santa Maria in Volturna, may be considered as having some claims to the Fanum.\n\nAnnio of Viterbo, in his 17 volumes of \"Antiquities\" (published in 1498) attributed the foundation of the Etruscan Fanum Voltumnae to the ancient population known as Falisci (allies of the Etruscans, along with Capenates, at the time of the wars between Rome and Veii, 406–396 BC). The town Montefiascone was named after them (\"Mons Faliscorum\", that is, Mountain of the Falisci). The British explorer George Dennis, though without any documentary evidence, supported Montefiascone as the sacred site where the states of the Etruscan league met periodically to discuss military and political affairs and choose a \"lucumo\" (the equivalent of \"Pontifex Maximus\").\n\nIn spring 1988, news was published that Fanum Voltumnae was at last discovered on the volcanic ridge of Lake Bolsena. The hill (633 m a.s.l.), known as \"Poggio Evangelista\" (commune of Latera), retains the ruins of a temple, visibly located on a strategic place, with a wide view over Umbria, Lazio and Tuscany (Berlingo and Timperi, 1995). It is likely a sacred Etruscan place of worship dating back to the 6th – 4th centuries BC.\n\nIn 1976 and 1977, Danish excavations were carried out at \"Monte Becco\" (at 556 m a.s.l.), in the area of Valentano, near to the Lake Mezzano (ancient Lacus Statoniensis). Traces of the Etruscan presence, including walls, bronze tools, and roof tiles were found during the study mission. One of the tiles was found to be incised with all the characters of the Etruscan alphabet. This site has been also indicated as one of the possible locations of the Fanum.\n\nThis hypothesis is supported by Angelo Timperi, inspector and archeologist of \"Soprintendenza per i Beni Archeologici dell'Etruria Meridionale\", with roles and responsibilities for the eastern side of Lake Bolsena and the archaeological area of \"Poggio Moscini\" in Bolsena. His idea is that Fanum Voltumnae was a large area centred on the ancient Etruscan, and later Roman town of Velzna, situated on the shore of \"Lacus Volsiniensis\" (modern Lake Bolsena). This conclusion is based on both archaeological and epigraphical discoveries, also supported by stratigraphic reconstructions and archival records.\n\nAnother hypothesis suggests that the federal shrine of the Etruscans was located to the northern coast of Lake Bolsena, in a place known as \"Civita di Grotte di Castro\", a plain area close to the church of San Giovanni in Val di Lago (currently in the commune of San Lorenzo Nuovo). This hypothesis (also supported by Luigi Catena) comes out of another study based on the so-called \"Rescritto di Spello\" (Rescript of Hispellum) issued by emperor Constantine I in a date between 333 and 337 AD to authorize the Umbrians' annual celebration:\n\nThis is the first document that allows one to situate the Fanum at Volsinii – or at least in the Volsiniese territory. It is said in the document that the annual Etruscan feast (\"concilium principum Etruriae\") was celebrated near \"Volsinios\", including games and combats of gladiators, and election of the federal \"sacerdos\". The document dates 4th century AD, thus the geographical indication in it can only refer to \"Volsinii Novi\", i.e. Bolsena, and not to Velzna (Latinized to \"Volsinii Veteres\", currently Orvieto), the town the Romans had conquered and destroyed more than five centuries earlier. New light is being brought into this area by British and Danish studies. The sacred rescript, found in 1733, was claimed false by the Italian historian Ludovico Antonio Muratori in his \"Novus Thesaurus Veterum Inscriptionum\" (pp. 1791–1795).\nNew discoveries from ongoing excavations have been made in location \"Alfina\" and \"Monte Landro\" by a team coordinated by Adriano Maggiani (teacher of Etruscology and Italic Archaeology at Ca' Foscari University of Venice), which may shed new lights on Etruscan culture at San Lorenzo Nuovo [e.g. Maccarino's tomb and other Etruscan tombs at San Lorenzo Nuovo ]. An Etruscan mirror exhibited in the British Museum was found in a tomb on the territory of San Lorenzo Nuovo.\n\nWithin Lake Bolsena, the Bisentina island (commune of Capodimonte) is also regarded as a sacred isle of the Etruscans, possible site for the Fanum, and gate to the underground world of Agharti. A sanctuary located on an island not situated at the sea would have been accessible to priests and kings of the 12 cities (with their closest entourages), their protection being granted during the religious and political meetings by a handful of armed men.\nAn Italian television program Voyager (1 October 2003) supported this hypothesis, suggesting for the Etruscans a parallelism to the Incas populations, who had also chosen one of Lake Titicaca's islands as their omphalos.\n\nIndeed, not only the Incas but, for the same reasons, various peoples have decided to erect their most eminent sanctuary on sacred islands: the Egyptians at Philae; the Greeks at Delos; the Germans at Helgoland in the North Sea and on the island of the goddess Nerthus, in the Baltic; the Celts at Gavrinis, near to the Breton coast in France, at Iona in Scotland, etc. This hypothesis finds a type of confirmation in the poem theTheogony, by the Greek oral poet Hesiod (8th-7th century BC) : \"They ruled over the famous Tyrenians, very far off in a recess of the holy islands\".\n\nIn \"Geografia sacra\", Giovanni Feo (professor at Department of Paleography and Medieval Studies, University of Bologna, Italy) presents his studies conducted over the Fiora River valley, in the comune of Pitigliano. A set of megalithic relics with astronomic functions was found out here, along with engraved rocky structures for cultural use. Such discoveries testify of the existence of a sacred area, originally developed by a pre-etruscan civilization settled down near to Lake Bolsena and later elected by the Etruscans as their religious centre.\nGiovanni Feo also pointed out the borders of this sacred area, which delimited the Fanum, divided into four parts centred around the intersection point between the earth and heaven gods.\n\nIn the commune of Farnese, deep in the \"Selva del Lamone\", location Voltone is assumed to get its name from the sacred temple dedicated to Voltumna. The Voltone is surrounded by numerous archaeological sites, such as Sovana, Castro, Vulci, and Tarquinia, which testify of the culture of the Etruscans.\n\nAccording to Alberto Palmucci, the Fanum Voltumnae could be the renowned temple of \"\", the biggest temple of Etruria, consecrated to Tinia, god of the sky and the highest god in Etruscan mythology (equivalent to the Roman Jupiter and the Greek Zeus).\nThe only representation of this god is one on a mirror, showing him attending the lesson in divination (haruspicy) given, in Tarquinia, to the culture hero Tarchon by prophet Tages. Greek historian Strabo supports that symbols of Etruscan federal power were transferred to Rome from Tarquinia.\n\nIn the archaeological museum of Tarquinia is an Etruscan vessel (early seventh century BC) with a dedication to god Vertun (Latin: Vertumnus, Voltumna). It comes from the nearly Etruscan cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "28200753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28200753", "title": "Gaadhi", "text": "Gaadhi\n\nGaadhi was the son of Kushanaabha. They belong to Chandravansha Clan.He is father of Rajarshi Kaushik ( later became Brahmarshi Vishvamitra). Vishwamitra ruled the earth, and this great resplendent king ruled the kingdom for many thousands of years. Gaadhi had a daughter named Satyawati. Satyawati was married to a brahmin known as Richika who was foremost among the race of Bhrigu.\n"}
{"id": "11703016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11703016", "title": "Gymnosophy", "text": "Gymnosophy\n\nGymnosophy (from Greek γυμνός \"gymnós\" \"naked\" and σοφία \"sophía\" \"wisdom\") was a movement and a philosophy practiced in Europe and the USA from the end of the 19th century to the mid 20th century. The practice involved nudity, asceticism and meditation.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the term was appropriated by several groups to denote a broad philosophy that included as a central thought that the nude human body is a natural condition and should be widely acceptable for the betterment of society. This philosophy is related closely, and often interchangeably, with nudism and naturism, and has close connection to the hippie movement.\n\nThe movement is known by mainly three organisations, the English Gymnosophical Society, Societe Internationale de Gymnosophie and the American Gymnosophical Association. In 1919, the Yoga teacher Blanche DeVries opened a \"Yoga Gymnosophy Institute\" in New York that combined Oriental Dance and Yoga. The \"English Gymnosophical Society\" was founded in 1922 and became \"The New Gymnosophy Society\" in 1926. One of the first members was Gerald Gardner, who in 1945 established the 'Five Acres Club', ostensibly as a nudist club, but as a front for Wiccans, as this was illegal in England until 1951. The \"Societe Internationale de Gymnosophie\" was founded in 1926 in France.\n\nDr. Maurice Parmelee (1882-1969), professor of sociology at the City College of New York, wrote from 1923 to 1924 a book, \"The New Gymnosophy\", the title was changed to \"Nudism In Modern Life\" in later editions. He took part in the founding of the \"American Gymnosophical Association\" 1930. \n\nIn 1932, \"Rochester Gymnosophy League\" in Bushnell’s Basin was founded. In 1933 the \"Dunedin Gymnosophy Club\" in New Zealand. The biochemist and historian Joseph Needham was known to practice gymnosophy.\n\nIn the last decade, the word gymnosophy has begun to be used as a term for a new, more spiritual and holistic, free body culture.\n\nA reputed poem from the book Non Serviam, 1945, by the Swedish author Gunnar Ekelöf is named \"Gymnosofisten\", (the gymnosophist).\n\nIn Don Quixote: \"…in defiance and in spite of envy itself, and all the magicians that Persia, or Brahmans that India, or Gymnosophists that Ethiopia ever produced…\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12475737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12475737", "title": "Heaven in Judaism", "text": "Heaven in Judaism\n\nShamayim (שָׁמַיִם), the Hebrew word for \"heaven\" (literally \"heavens\", plural), denotes one component of the three-part biblical cosmology, the other elements being \"erets\" (the earth) and \"sheol\" (the underworld). \"Shamayim\" is the dwelling place of God and other heavenly beings, \"erets\" is the home of the living, and \"sheol\" is the realm of the dead, including, in post-Hebrew Bible literature (including the New Testament), the abode of the righteous dead.\n\nThe Hebrew word \"shamayim\" is constructed of two parts: \"sham\" (שָׁמַ) derived from Akkadian \"samu\" meaning \"sky\" or \"lofty\", and Hebrew \"mayim\" (מַיִם) meaning \"water\". In Elohim separated the \"water from the water\". The area above the earth was filled by sky-water (\"sham-mayim\") and the earth below was covered by sea-water (\"yam-mayim\"). The Hebrew word for the sun is \"shemesh\". It follows the same construction, where \"shem\" or \"sham\" (Akkadian: \"samu\") means \"sky\" and \"esh\" (Akkadian: \"ish\") means \"fire\", i.e., \"sky-fire\".\n\nThe Biblical authors pictured the earth as a flat disk floating in water, with the heavens above and the underworld below. The \"raqiya\" (firmament), a solid inverted bowl above the earth, coloured blue by the cosmic ocean, kept the waters above the earth from flooding the world. From about 300 BCE a newer Greek model largely replaced the idea of a three-tiered cosmos; the newer view saw the earth as a sphere at the centre of a set of seven concentric heavens, one for each visible planet plus the sun and moon, with the realm of God in an eighth and highest heaven, but although several Jewish works from this period have multiple heavens, as do some New Testament works, none has exactly the formal Greek system. \n\nIn the course of the 1st millennium CE Jewish scholars developed an elaborate system of Seven Heavens, named:\n\nMedieval Jewish Merkavah and Heichalot literature focussed on discussing the details of these heavens, sometimes in connection with traditions relating to Enoch, such as the Third Book of Enoch.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1268957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268957", "title": "Howard Thurman", "text": "Howard Thurman\n\nHoward Washington Thurman (November 18, 1899 – April 10, 1981) was an African-American author, philosopher, theologian, educator, and civil rights leader. As a prominent religious figure, he played a leading role in many social justice movements and organizations of the twentieth century. Thurman's theology of radical nonviolence influenced and shaped a generation of civil rights activists, and he was a key mentor to leaders within the movement, including Martin Luther King, Jr.\n\nThurman served as dean of Rankin Chapel at Howard University from 1932 to 1944 and as dean of Marsh Chapel at Boston University from 1953 to 1965. In 1944, he co-founded, along with Alfred Fisk, the first major interracial, interdenominational church in the United States.\n\nHoward Thurman died on April 10, 1981 in San Francisco, California.\n\nHoward Thurman was born in 1899 in Florida, probably in West Palm Beach. He spent most of his childhood in Daytona, Florida, where his family lived in Waycross, one of Daytona's three all-black communities. He was profoundly influenced by his maternal grandmother, Nancy Ambrose, who had been enslaved on a plantation in Madison County, Florida. Nancy Ambrose and Thurman's mother, Alice, were members of Mount Bethel Baptist Church in Waycross and were women of deep Christian faith. Thurman's father, Saul Thurman, died of pneumonia when Howard Thurman was seven years old. After completing eighth grade, Thurman attended the Florida Baptist Academy in Jacksonville. One hundred miles from Daytona, it was one of only three high schools for African Americans in Florida at the time.\n\nIn 1923, Thurman graduated from Morehouse College as valedictorian. In 1925, he was ordained as a Baptist minister at First Baptist Church of Roanoke, Virginia, while still a student at Rochester Theological Seminary (now Colgate Rochester Crozer Divinity School). He graduated from Rochester Theological Seminary in May 1926 as valedictorian in a class of twenty-nine students. From June, 1926 until the fall of 1928, Thurman served as pastor of Mount Zion Baptist Church in Oberlin, Ohio. In the fall of 1928, he moved to Atlanta, Georgia, where he had a joint appointment to Morehouse College and Spelman College in philosophy and religion. During the spring semester of 1929, Thurman pursued further study as a special student at Haverford College with Rufus Jones, a noted Quaker philosopher and mystic.\n\nThurman was selected as the first dean of Rankin Chapel at Howard University in the District of Columbia in 1932. He served there from 1932 to 1944. He also served on the faculty of the Howard University School of Divinity.\n\nThurman traveled broadly, heading Christian missions and meeting with world figures such as Mahatma Gandhi. When Thurman asked Gandhi what message he should take back to the United States, Gandhi said he regretted not having made nonviolence more visible as a practice worldwide and famously remarked \"It may be through the Negroes that the unadulterated message of nonviolence will be delivered to the world.\".\n\nIn 1944, Thurman left his tenured position at Howard to help the Fellowship of Reconciliation establish the Church for the Fellowship of All Peoples in San Francisco. It was the first racially integrated, intercultural church in the United States. He served as co-pastor with a white minister, Dr. Alfred Fisk. Many of their congregation were African Americans who had migrated to San Francisco from Oklahoma, Texas and Arkansas for jobs in the defense industry. The church helped create a new community for many in San Francisco.\n\nThurman was invited to Boston University in 1953, where he became the dean of Marsh Chapel (1953–1965). He was the first black Dean of Chapel at a majority-white university or college in the United States. In addition, he served on the faculty of Boston University School of Theology. Thurman was also active and well known in the Boston community, where he influenced many leaders.\n\nDuring his tenure at Boston University, the \"Good Friday Experiment\" (also called the Marsh Chapel Experiment) was conducted. \nThis was a controversial experiment on the effects of hallucinogenic drugs on religious experience.\n\nAfter leaving Boston University in 1965, Thurman continued his ministry as chairman of the board and director of the Howard Thurman Educational Trust in San Francisco until his death in 1981.\n\nThurman was a prolific author, writing twenty books on theology, religion, and philosophy. The most famous of his works, \"Jesus and the Disinherited\" (1949), deeply influenced Martin Luther King, Jr. and other leaders, both black and white, of the modern Civil Rights Movement. Thurman had been a classmate and friend of King's father at Morehouse College. Martin Luther King, Jr. visited Thurman while he attended Boston University, and Thurman in turn mentored his former classmate's son and his friends. He served as spiritual advisor to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Sherwood Eddy, James Farmer, A. J. Muste, and Pauli Murray. At Boston University, Thurman also taught Reb Zalman Schachter-Shalomi, who cited Thurman as among the teachers who first compelled him to explore mystical trends beyond Judaism.\n\nThurman married Katie Kelley on June 11, 1926, less than a month after graduating from seminary. Katie was a 1918 graduate of the Teacher's Course at Spelman Seminary (renamed Spelman College in 1924). Their daughter Olive was born in October 1927. Katie died in December 1930 of tuberculosis, which she had probably contracted during her anti-tuberculosis work. On June 12, 1932, Thurman married Sue Bailey, whom he had met while at Morehouse, when Sue was a student at Spelman. Howard and Sue Bailey Thurman's daughter Anne was born in October 1933. Sue Bailey Thurman was an author, lecturer, historian, civil rights activist, and founder of the \"Aframerican Women's Journal\". She died in 1996.\n\nThurman was named honorary Canon of the Cathedral of Saint John the Divine, New York City, in 1974.\n\nThe \"Ebony Magazine\" called Thurman one of the 50 most important figures in African-American history. In 1953 \"Life\" rated Thurman among the twelve most important religious leaders in the United States.\n\nIn 1986, Dean Emeritus George K. Makechnie founded the Howard Thurman Center at Boston University to preserve and share the legacy of Howard Thurman. The Howard Gotlieb Archival Research Center at Boston University holds the Howard Thurman Papers and the Sue Bailey Thurman Papers, where they are catalogued and available to researchers.\n\nThe Howard Thurman Papers Project was founded in 1992. The Project's mission is to preserve and promote Thurman's vast documentary record, which spans 63 years and consists of approximately 58,000 items of correspondence, sermons, unpublished writings, and speeches. The Howard Thurman Papers Project is located at Boston University School of Theology.\n\nHoward University School of Divinity named their chapel the Thurman Chapel in memory of Howard Thurman.\n\nHoward Thurman's poem 'I Will Light Candles This Christmas' has been set to music by British composer and songwriter Adrian Payne, both as a song and as a choral (SATB) piece. The choral version was first performed by Epsom Choral Society in December 2007. An arrangement for school choirs, which can be performed in one or two parts with piano accompaniment, was first performed in December 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34258436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258436", "title": "Irreligion in the United Kingdom", "text": "Irreligion in the United Kingdom\n\nIrreligion in the United Kingdom refers to the agnosticism, atheism, nontheism, humanism, secularism, or, more generally, the lack of a religion in the country. Historically, the growth of irreligion in the UK has followed a European-wide pattern of secularisation.\n\nThe first British census to gather data on religion, in 2001, showed that there were 7.7 million irreligious people in the country. The wording of the question was criticised by humanist groups, and a revised question in the next census in 2011 counted 14.1 million irreligious people. This made irreligion the second-largest viewpoint on religion after Christianity, larger than the combined populations of non-Christian religions in the UK, and also the largest growth between the two censuses. Humanists UK is the charity that provides services for this community and lobbies government on their behalf.\n\nFreedom to be irreligious had been limited by the country's blasphemy law, which punished criticism and mockery of Christianity, particularly the state Church of England. The last conviction was in 1977, with the law being abolished in England and Wales in 2008. Similar offences remain in statute in Scotland and Northern Ireland, and remain theoretically incompatible with the Human Rights Act 1998 and European Convention on Human Rights. \n\nOrganized activism for irreligion in the United Kingdom derived its roots from the legacy of British nonconformists. The South Place Religious Society, which would later become associated with the Ethical movement, was founded in 1793 as an organization of Philadelphians or Universalists.\n\n\"The Oracle of Reason\", the first avowedly-atheist periodical publication in British history, was published from 1841 to 1843 by Charles Southwell. It suffered from numerous imprisonments of its staff, including Southwell, George Holyoake and Thomas Paterson, for missives deemed \"blasphemous\" by the authorities (Holyoake was the last person in Britain convicted of blasphemy in a public lecture). Holyoake took to publishing \"The Movement\" (1842-1845) following his six-month sentence, which later became \"The Reasoner\" (1845-1860) and shifted to a larger focus on social issues facing the British working class, increasing the publication's readership. It was during this time that Holyoake developed his idea for the replacement of Christianity with an ethical system based upon science and reason, terming his proposal \"secularism\".\n\nGeorge Holyoake's coining of the word \"secularism\" in 1851 offered the English-speaking world the clarification of the nascent movement for separation of religion and state. The National Secular Society, founded in 1866 by politician Charles Bradlaugh, spearheaded the advocacy for freeing citizens from absolute government requirements involving religious observances; the Leicester Secular Society was founded in 1851. Bradlaugh's 1880 election to Parliament brought on a decade-long dispute over the demanded right to affirm declarations of office rather than swear oaths, as he was denied his seat for five years by a ruling that he had no right to affirm and resolutions preventing him from swearing an oath. When Bradlaugh was ultimately admitted in 1886, he took up the issue and saw the Oaths Act 1888 passed, which confirmed the right to optionally affirm declarations for inaugurations to office and offering testimony to government bodies. \n\nIn 1881, \"The Freethinker\" began circulation as Britain's longest-running humanist periodical. In 1891, the Union of Ethical Societies was formed in the United Kingdom by American Stanton Coit as a union of British Ethical movement societies; this group would later become known as the Ethical Union and the British Humanist Association. In 1899, the Rational Press Association was formed by a group of free-thinkers including Charles Albert Watts and George Holyoake.\n\nMeanwhile, the South Place Religious Society became further aligned with organized secularist advocacy during the tenure of Moncure D. Conway as minister of the congregation; Conway, an American Unitarian minister who served from 1864–1885 and 1892–1897, moved the congregation further away from doctrinal Unitarianism, and spent the break in his tenure (during which Stanton Coit served in his stead) writing a biography of American revolutionary ideologue Thomas Paine. In 1888, the South Place Religious Society became the South Place Ethical Society, now known as the Conway Hall Ethical Society.\n\nThe 1960s were a significant time for irreligion, as the Ethical Union rebranded as the British Humanist Association, which went on to co-found the International Humanist and Ethical Union and create a symbol for humanism, the Happy Human. Broadcasters such as Margaret K. Knight sensationalised Britain with open advocacy of non-religious values and secular education. Senior figures in the British humanist movement went out to take on leading roles in institutions such as UNESCO, the World Health Organization, and the Food and Agriculture Organization.\nJohn William Gott, a working man of Bradford, West Yorkshire, attacked religion, especially Christianity, seeing it as reducing the opportunity for a socialist revolution. His lectures on rationalism and scepticism, and anti-Christian pamphlets, saw him jailed for blasphemy in 1911. Liberal Prime Minister H. H. Asquith was one of a group of Members of Parliament who proposed an ultimately unsuccessful piece of legislation to abolish blasphemy offences. Gott was jailed again ten years later for a pamphlet showing Jesus as a clown, and died in 1922 soon after his nine-month sentence which included hard labour despite his worsening physical condition. There was a public backlash against his sentence.\n\nGott was the last Briton jailed for blasphemy, but the offence remained a technical crime through common law until being abolished in the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008.\n\nEvolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, who first came to prominence in 1976 following the release of \"The Selfish Gene\", increasingly figured in British irreligion with the release of his 1986 work \"The Blind Watchmaker\", in which he argued in favour of evolutionary natural selection as opposed to intelligent design and creationism.\n\nIn the 21st century, New Atheism became a popular topic of debate, support and critique in the United Kingdom. Dawkins' 2006 book \"The God Delusion\" and Christopher Hitchens' 2007 book \"God Is Not Great\" were considered emblematic works of the era among British authors, and Dawkins advocated for the Brights movement. The Atheist Bus Campaign was inaugurated during this time, in which advertisements on double-decker buses were purchased by the British Humanist Association in order to advocate non-belief in the supernatural; the campaign caused controversy and complaints to authorities, but soon spread to other countries and continents, taking root in the United States as a variety of atheist billboard campaigns. Atheism is expected to be the dominant position on the existence of God by 2038. A 2009 survey of 1,000 teenagers aged 13 to 18 reports that two-thirds of British teenagers do not believe in God.\n\nThe rise in irreligion was confirmed in the UK's 2011 census, which saw irreligion rise from 7.7 million in 2001 to 14.1 million, a rise of 10.3 percentage points. The local authority with the highest level of irreligion was Norwich, the county town of Norfolk, where the level was 42.5%. Religion has the least influence on youth. According to the 2011 census, 25% of England has no religion, 7% of Northern Ireland, one third in Scotland and one-third of Wales. \n\nAccording to YouGov, Christianity is perceived to be on the decline. Mori Polls have shown that British Christians support a secular state. Britons are amongst the most skeptical about religion.\n\nNon-religious people have risen to the highest ranks of UK politics, including at least three Prime Ministers, one Deputy Prime Minister, and several Leaders of the Opposition. Clement Attlee, Prime Minister for the Labour Party from 1945 to 1951, rejected organised religion and claims of the supernatural his whole life, despite growing up in a Christian household. James Callaghan, also of Labour, was Prime Minister from 1976 to 1979. He left the Baptist Church as a young man when he became more involved in politics. Conservative Prime Minister Winston Churchill (1940–1945 and 1951–1955) was an atheist, saying \"I do not accept the Christian or any other form of religious belief\". Past Opposition Labour Party leaders Michael Foot and Neil Kinnock were also atheists and humanists. Foot, much like Neil and Glenys Kinnock, was a patron of Humanists UK. Rhodri Morgan, former MP and First Minister of Wales from 2000 to 2009, was an atheist and a humanist.\n\nOther influential atheists and humanists in British history include NHS founder Nye Bevan, and \"father of the welfare state\" William Beveridge.\n\nContemporary British atheist politicians include Ken Livingstone of Labour, who was London's first mayor between 2000 and 2008. He left Christianity at the age of 11. Former Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg (2010–2015) is an agnostic atheist. Ed Miliband, a former leader of the Labour Party from 2010 to 2015, is also a Jewish atheist. Outside of elected politicians, Tony Blair's Director of Communications Alastair Campbell is an atheist and was infamous during his time in post for once telling a journalist \"We don't do god\". \n\nOver 100 Parliamentarians in the UK are members of the All-Party Parliamentary Humanist Group, which means the non-religious have substantial representation among MPs and Lords.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "30941018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30941018", "title": "Jewish Review", "text": "Jewish Review\n\nThe Jewish Review was a twice-monthly, non-profit newspaper published in Portland, Oregon, United States. The paper had been published from 1959 to 2012 by the Jewish Federation of Greater Portland.\n\n"}
{"id": "23912942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23912942", "title": "Juan Carlos Maccarone", "text": "Juan Carlos Maccarone\n\nJuan Carlos Maccarone (19 October 1940 – 29 March 2015) was an Argentine Roman Catholic bishop.\n\nMaccarone was born on 19 October 1940 in Buenos Aires. After receiving a formal education, he studied Roman Catholic theology. He was ordained as a priest on 17 December 1968.\n\nIn 1996, he became bishop in Roman Catholic Diocese of Chascomús. On 18 February 1999, Maccarone was nominated as bishop in Roman Catholic Diocese of Santiago del Estero.\n\nIn 2005, a video showing Maccarone having sex with a 23-year-old man was made public. Maccarone retired as a bishop on 19 August 2005.\n"}
{"id": "31146106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31146106", "title": "Kalabaz", "text": "Kalabaz\n\nThe Kalabaz are a Hindu caste found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They have Scheduled Caste status.\n\nThe word \"kalabaz\" in Hindi means an acrobat, and the Kalabaz are an endogamous sub-group within the larger Nat caste of North India. Like other Nats, they claim to have originally been Rajputs, who lost caste after their defeat at the hands of the Mughal Empire. Those Nats who became acrobats over time evolved into a distinct community. Historically, the Kalabaz were a nomadic community, but have now been settled by the Indian government. They speak Hindi but have their own particular dialect.\n\nThe Kalabaz are strictly endogamous and practice clan exogamy. They are further divided into a number of exogamous sub-divisions, known as gotras, namely the Bakiya, Dariyabadi, Dibichia, Ghughasia, Goojre, Gulal, Jharbheria, Kala, Kingiriya, Kulba, Marora, Panchiya, Paharia and Sati. The main function of the gotra is to trace descent and to regulate their marriage alliances.\n\nThe Kalabaz are a landless community, and are still involved in their traditional occupation of acrobatic performances. Many have seen a decline in their traditional occupation, and are employed as day labourers. Like other Hindu castes, each Kalabaz settlement contains a biradari panchayat, an informal caste association, which acts as an instrument of social control.\n\nThe 2011 Census of India for Uttar Pradesh showed the Kalabaz, who were classified as a Scheduled Caste having a population of 11,199.\n"}
{"id": "345041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=345041", "title": "Kushan Empire", "text": "Kushan Empire\n\nThe Kushan Empire (; , ; ; BHS: \"\"; Chinese: 貴霜帝國; ) was a syncretic empire, formed by the Yuezhi, in the Bactrian territories in the early 1st century. It spread to encompass much of Afghanistan, and then the northern parts of the Indian subcontinent at least as far as Saketa and Sarnath near Varanasi (Benares), where inscriptions have been found dating to the era of the Kushan Emperor Kanishka the Great. Emperor Kanishka was a great patron of Buddhism. He played an important role in the establishment of Buddhism in the Indian subcontinent and its spread to Central Asia and China.\n\nThe Kushans were one of five branches of the Yuezhi confederation, a possibly Iranic or Tocharian, Indo-European nomadic people who migrated from Gansu and settled in ancient Bactria. The Kushans possibly used the Greek language initially for administrative purposes, but soon began to use Bactrian language. Kanishka sent his armies north of the Karakoram mountains, capturing territories as far as Kashgar, Khotan and Yarkant, in the Tarim Basin of modern-day Xinjiang, China. A direct road from Gandhara to China remained under Kushan control for more than a century, encouraging travel across the Karakoram and facilitating the spread of Mahayana Buddhism to China.\n\nThe Kushan dynasty had diplomatic contacts with the Roman Empire, Sasanian Persia, the Aksumite Empire and Han Dynasty of China. While much philosophy, art, and science was created within its borders, the only textual record of the empire's history today comes from inscriptions and accounts in other languages, particularly Chinese.\n\nThe Kushan empire fragmented into semi-independent kingdoms in the 3rd century AD, which fell to the Sasanians invading from the west, establishing the Kushano-Sasanian Kingdom in the areas of Sogdiana, Bactria and Gandhara. In the 4th century, the Guptas, an Indian dynasty also pressed from the east. The last of the Kushan and Kushano-Sasanian kingdoms were eventually overwhelmed by invaders from the north, known as the Kidarites, and then the Hepthalites.\n\nChinese sources describe the \"Guishuang\" (貴霜), \"i.e.\" the Kushans, as one of the five aristocratic tribes of the Yuezhi, with some people claiming they were a loose confederation of Indo-European peoples, though many scholars are still unconvinced that they originally spoke an Indo-European language. As the historian John E. Hill has put it: \"For well over a century ... there have been many arguments about the ethnic and linguistic origins of the Great Yuezhi or Da Yuezhi (大月氏), Kushans (貴霜), and the Tochari, and still there is little consensus\".\n\nThe Yuezhi were described in the \"Records of the Great Historian\" 史記 and the \"Book of Han 漢書\" as living in the grasslands of Gansu, in the northwest of modern-day China, until their King was beheaded by the Huns from Siberia (the Xiongnu 匈奴) who were also at war with China, which eventually forced them to migrate west in 176–160 BCE. The five tribes constituting the Yuezhi are known in Chinese history as \"Xiūmì\" (休密), \"Guìshuāng\" (貴霜), \"Shuāngmǐ\" (雙靡), \"Xìdùn\" (肸頓), and \"Dūmì\" (都密).\n\nThe Yuezhi reached the Hellenic kingdom of Greco-Bactria (in northern Afghanistan and Uzbekistan) around 135 BC. The displaced Greek dynasties resettled to the southeast in areas of the Hindu Kush and the Indus basin (in present-day Afghanistan and Pakistan), occupying the western part of the Indo-Greek Kingdom.\n\nSome traces remain of the presence of the Kushans in the area of Bactria and Sogdiana. Archaeological structures are known in Takht-I-Sangin, Surkh Kotal (a monumental temple), and in the palace of Khalchayan. Various sculptures and friezes are known, representing horse-riding archers, and, significantly, men with artificially deformed skulls, such as the Kushan prince of Khalchayan (a practice well attested in nomadic Central Asia). The Chinese first referred to these people as the Yuezhi and said they established the Kushan Empire, although the relationship between the Yuezhi and the Kushans is still unclear. On the ruins of ancient Hellenistic cities such as Ai-Khanoum, the Kushans are known to have built fortresses.\nThe earliest documented ruler, and the first one to proclaim himself as a Kushan ruler, was Heraios. He calls himself a \"tyrant\" in Greek on his coins, and also exhibits skull deformation. He may have been an ally of the Greeks, and he shared the same style of coinage. Heraios may have been the father of the first Kushan emperor Kujula Kadphises.\n\nBan Gu's Book of Han tells us the Kushans (Kuei-shuang) divided up Bactria in 128 BC. Fan Ye's Book of the Later Han \"relates how the chief of the Kushans, Ch'iu-shiu-ch'ueh (the Kujula Kadphises of coins), founded by means of the submission of the other Yueh-chih clans the Kushan Empire, known to the Greeks and Romans under the name of Empire of the Indo-Scythians.\"\n\nThe Chinese Hou Hanshu 後漢書 chronicles gives an account of the formation of the Kushan empire based on a report made by the Chinese general Ban Yong to the Chinese Emperor c. 125 AD:\n\nIn the 1st century BCE, the \"Guishuang\" (Ch: 貴霜) gained prominence over the other Yuezhi tribes, and welded them into a tight confederation under \"yabgu\" (Commander) Kujula Kadphises. The name \"Guishuang\" was adopted in the West and modified into \"Kushan\" to designate the confederation, although the Chinese continued to call them \"Yuezhi\".\n\nGradually wresting control of the area from the Scythian tribes, the Kushans expanded south into the region traditionally known as Gandhara (an area primarily in Pakistan's Pothowar and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region but going in an arc to include the Kabul valley and part of Qandahar in Afghanistan) and established twin capitals in Begram and Peshawar, then known as Kapisa and Pushklavati respectively.\nThe Kushans adopted elements of the Hellenistic culture of Bactria. They adopted the Greek alphabet to suit their own language (with the additional development of the letter Þ \"sh\", as in \"Kushan\") and soon began minting coinage on the Greek model. On their coins they used Greek language legends combined with Pali legends (in the Kharoshthi script), until the first few years of the reign of Kanishka. After that date, they used Kushan language legends (in an adapted Greek script), combined with legends in Greek (Greek script) and legends in Prakrit (Kharoshthi script).\n\nThe Kushans \"adopted many local beliefs and customs, including Zoroastrianism and the two rising religions in the region, the Greek cults and Buddhism\". From the time of Vima Takto, many Kushans started adopting aspects of Buddhist culture, and like the Egyptians, they absorbed the strong remnants of the Greek culture of the Hellenistic Kingdoms, becoming at least partly Hellenised. The great Kushan emperor Vima Kadphises may have embraced Shaivism (a sect of Hinduism), as surmised by coins minted during the period. The following Kushan emperors represented a wide variety of faiths including Buddhism, Zoroastrianism and Shaivism.\n\nThe rule of the Kushans linked the seagoing trade of the Indian Ocean with the commerce of the Silk Road through the long-civilized Indus Valley. At the height of the dynasty, the Kushans loosely ruled a territory that extended to the Aral Sea through present-day Uzbekistan, Afghanistan, and Pakistan into northern India.\n\nThe loose unity and comparative peace of such a vast expanse encouraged long-distance trade, brought Chinese silks to Rome, and created strings of flourishing urban centers.\n\nRosenfield notes that archaeological evidence of a Kushan rule of long duration is present in an area stretching from Surkh Kotal, Begram, the summer capital of the Kushans, Peshawar, the capital under Kanishka I, Taxila, and Mathura, the winter capital of the Kushans.\n\nOther areas of probable rule include Khwarezm, Kausambi (excavations of Allahabad University), Sanchi and Sarnath (inscriptions with names and dates of Kushan kings), Malwa and Maharashtra, and Odisha (imitation of Kushan coins, and large Kushan hoards).\nKushan invasions in the 1st century CE had been given as an explanation for the migration of Indians from the Indian Subcontinent toward Southeast Asia according to proponents of a Greater India theory by 20th-century Indian nationalists. However, there is no evidence to support this hypothesis.\n\nThe recently discovered Rabatak inscription confirms the account of the Hou Hanshu, Weilüe, and inscriptions dated early in the Kanishka era (incept probably 127 CE), that large Kushan dominions expanded into the heartland of northern India in the early 2nd century CE. Lines 4 to 7 of the inscription describe the cities which were under the rule of Kanishka, among which six names are identifiable: Ujjain, Kundina, Saketa, Kausambi, Pataliputra, and Champa (although the text is not clear whether Champa was a possession of Kanishka or just beyond it).\nThe Kushan state was bounded to the south by the Pārata state of Balochistan, western Pakistan, Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan. Turkmenistan was known for the kushan Buddhist city of Merv. As late as the 3rd century AD, decorated coins of Huvishka were dedicated at Bodh Gaya together with other gold offerings under the \"Enlightenment Throne\" of the Buddha, suggesting direct Kushan influence in the area during that period.\n\nNorthward, in the 2nd century AD, the Kushans under Kanishka made various forays into the Tarim Basin, where they had various contacts with the Chinese. Both archaeological findings and literary evidence suggest Kushan rule, in Kashgar, Yarkand, and Khotan.\n\nThese conquests probably took place sometime between 45 and 60 and laid the basis for the Kushan Empire which was rapidly expanded by his descendants.\n\nKujula issued an extensive series of coins and fathered at least two sons, Sadaṣkaṇa (who is known from only two inscriptions, especially the Rabatak inscription, and apparently never ruled), and seemingly Vima Takto.\n\nKujula Kadphises was the great-grandfather of Kanishka.\n\nVima Takto (Ancient Chinese: 閻膏珍 \"Yangaozhen\") is mentioned in the Rabatak inscription (another son, Sadashkana, is mentioned in an inscription of Senavarman, the King of Odi). He was the predecessor of Vima Kadphises, and Kanishka I. He expanded the Kushan Empire into the northwest of South Asia. The Hou Hanshu says:\n\nVima Kadphises (Kushan language: Οοημο Καδφισης) was a Kushan emperor from around 90–100 CE, the son of Sadashkana and the grandson of Kujula Kadphises, and the father of Kanishka I, as detailed by the Rabatak inscription.\n\nVima Kadphises added to the Kushan territory by his conquests in Afghanistan and north-west Pakistan. He issued an extensive series of coins and inscriptions. He issued gold coins in addition to the existing copper and silver coinage.\n\nThe rule of Kanishka the Great, fifth Kushan king, lasted for about 13 years from c. 127. Upon his accession, Kanishka ruled a huge territory (virtually all of northern India), south to Ujjain and Kundina and east beyond Pataliputra, according to the Rabatak inscription:\n\nHis territory was administered from two capitals: Purushapura (now Peshawar in northwestern Pakistan) and Mathura, in northern India. He is also credited (along with Raja Dab) for building the massive, ancient Fort at Bathinda (Qila Mubarak), in the modern city of Bathinda, Indian Punjab.\n\nThe Kushans also had a summer capital in Bagram (then known as Kapisa), where the \"Begram Treasure\", comprising works of art from Greece to China, has been found. According to the Rabatak inscription, Kanishka was the son of Vima Kadphises, the grandson of Sadashkana, and the great-grandson of Kujula Kadphises. Kanishka's era is now generally accepted to have begun in 127 on the basis of Harry Falk's ground-breaking research. Kanishka's era was used as a calendar reference by the Kushans for about a century, until the decline of the Kushan realm.\n\nVāsishka was a Kushan emperor who seems to have had a 20-year reign following Kanishka. His rule is recorded as far south as Sanchi (near Vidisa), where several inscriptions in his name have been found, dated to the year 22 (the Sanchi inscription of \"Vaksushana\" – i.e., Vasishka Kushana) and year 28 (the Sanchi inscription of Vasaska – i.e., Vasishka) of the Kanishka era.\n\nHuvishka (Kushan: Οοηϸκι, \"Ooishki\") was a Kushan emperor from about 20 years after the death of Kanishka (assumed on the best evidence available to be in 140) until the succession of Vasudeva I about thirty years later. His rule was a period of retrenchment and consolidation for the Empire. In particular he devoted time and effort early in his reign to the exertion of greater control over the city of Mathura.\n\nVasudeva I (Kushan: Βαζοδηο \"Bazodeo\", Chinese: 波調 \"Bodiao\") was the last of the \"Great Kushans\". Named inscriptions dating from year 64 to 98 of Kanishka's era suggest his reign extended from at least 191 to 225 AD. He was the last great Kushan emperor, and the end of his rule coincides with the invasion of the Sasanians as far as northwestern India, and the establishment of the Indo-Sasanians or \"Kushanshahs\" in what is nowadays Afghanistan, Pakistan and northwestern India from around 240 AD.\n\nThe Kushan religious pantheon is extremely varied, as revealed by their coins that were made in gold, silver, and copper. These coins contained more than thirty different gods, belonging mainly to their own Iranic, Greek, and Indo-Aryan worlds as well. Kushan coins had images of Kushan Kings, Buddha, and figures from the Indo-Aryan and Iranian pantheons. Greek deities, with Greek names are represented on early coins. During Kanishka's reign, the language of the coinage changes to Bactrian (though it remained in Greek script for all kings). After Huvishka, only two divinities appear on the coins: \"Ardoxsho\" and \"Oesho\" (see details below).\n\nThe Iranic entities depicted on coinage include:\n\nRepresentation of entities from Greek mythology and Hellenistic syncretism are:\n\nThe Indic entities represented on coinage include:\n\nThe Kushans inherited the Greco-Buddhist traditions of the Indo-Greek Kingdom they replaced, and their patronage of Buddhist institutions allowed them to grow as a commercial power. Between the mid-1st century and the mid-3rd century, Buddhism, patronized by the Kushans, extended to China and other Asian countries through the Silk Road.\n\nKanishka is renowned in Buddhist tradition for having convened a great Buddhist council in Kashmir. Along with his predecessors in the region, the Indo-Greek king Menander I (Milinda) and the Indian emperors Ashoka and Harsha Vardhana, Kanishka is considered by Buddhism as one of its greatest benefactors.\n\nDuring the 1st century AD, Buddhist books were being produced and carried by monks, and their trader patrons. Also, monasteries were being established along these land routes that went from China and other parts of Asia. With the development of Buddhist books, it caused a new written language called Gandhara. Gandhara consists of eastern Afghanistan and northern Pakistan. Scholars are said to have found many Buddhist scrolls that contained the Gandhari language.\n\nThe reign of Huvishka corresponds to the first known epigraphic evidence of the Buddha Amitabha, on the bottom part of a 2nd-century statue which has been found in Govindo-Nagar, and now at the Mathura Museum. The statue is dated to \"the 28th year of the reign of Huvishka\", and dedicated to \"Amitabha Buddha\" by a family of merchants. There is also some evidence that Huvishka himself was a follower of Mahāyāna Buddhism. A Sanskrit manuscript fragment in the Schøyen Collection describes Huvishka as one who has \"set forth in the Mahāyāna.\"\n\nThe art and culture of Gandhara, at the crossroads of the Kushan hegemony, continued the traditions of Greco-Buddhist art and are the best known expressions of Kushan influences to Westerners. Several direct depictions of Kushans are known from Gandhara, where they are represented with a tunic, belt and trousers and play the role of devotees to the Buddha, as well as the Bodhisattva and future Buddha Maitreya.\n\nDuring the Kushan Empire, many images of Gandhara share a strong resemblance to the features of Greek, Syrian, Persian and Indian figures. These Western-looking stylistic signatures often include heavy drapery and curly hair, representing a composite (the Greeks, for example, often possessed curly hair).\n\nIn the iconography, they are never associated however with the very Hellenistic \"Standing Buddha\" statues, which might therefore correspond to an earlier historical period.\n\nSeveral Roman sources describe the visit of ambassadors from the Kings of Bactria and India during the 2nd century, probably referring to the Kushans.\nHistoria Augusta, speaking of Emperor Hadrian (117–138) tells:\n\nAlso in 138, according to Aurelius Victor (\"Epitome\"‚ XV, 4), and Appian (\"Praef.\", 7), Antoninus Pius, successor to Hadrian, received some Indian, Bactrian, and Hyrcanian ambassadors.\n\nThe summer capital of the Kushan Empire in Begram has yielded a considerable amount of goods imported from the Roman Empire--in particular, various types of glassware.\n\nDuring the 1st and 2nd century, the Kushan Empire expanded militarily to the north and occupied parts of the Tarim Basin, their original grounds, putting them at the center of the profitable Central Asian commerce with the Roman Empire. They are related to have collaborated militarily with the Chinese against nomadic incursion, particularly when they collaborated with the Han Dynasty general Ban Chao against the Sogdians in 84, when the latter were trying to support a revolt by the king of Kashgar. Around 85, they also assisted the Chinese general in an attack on Turpan, east of the Tarim Basin.\nIn recognition for their support to the Chinese, the Kushans requested a Han princess, but were denied, even after they had sent presents to the Chinese court. In retaliation, they marched on Ban Chao in 86 with a force of 70,000, but were defeated by a smaller Chinese force. The Yuezhi retreated and paid tribute to the Chinese Empire during the reign of emperor He of Han (89–106).\n\nLater, around 116, the Kushans under Kanishka established a kingdom centered on Kashgar, also taking control of Khotan and Yarkand, which were Chinese dependencies in the Tarim Basin, modern Xinjiang. They introduced the Brahmi script, the Indian Prakrit language for administration, and expanded the influence of Greco-Buddhist art which developed into Serindian art.\nThe Kushans are again recorded to have sent presents to the Chinese court in 158–159 during the reign of emperor Huan of Han.\n\nFollowing these interactions, cultural exchanges further increased, and Kushan Buddhist missionaries, such as Lokaksema, became active in the Chinese capital cities of Loyang and sometimes Nanjing, where they particularly distinguished themselves by their translation work. They were the first recorded promoters of Hinayana and Mahayana scriptures in China, greatly contributing to the Silk Road transmission of Buddhism.\n\nAfter the death of Vasudeva I in 225, the Kushan empire split into western and eastern halves. The Western Kushans (in Afghanistan) were soon subjugated by the Persian Sasanian Empire and lost Sogdiana, Bactria, and Gandhara to them. The Sasanians deposed the Western dynasty and replaced them with Persian vassals known as the Kushanshas (also called Indo-Sasanians or Kushano-Sasanians).\n\nThe Eastern Kushan kingdom was based in the Punjab. Around 270 their territories on the Gangetic plain became independent under local dynasties such as the Yaudheyas. Then in the mid-4th century they were subjugated by the Gupta Empire under Samudragupta.\n\nIn 360 a Kidarite Hun named Kidara overthrew the Indo-Sasanians and remnants of the old Kushan dynasty, and established the Kidarite Kingdom. The Kushan style of Kidarite coins indicates they claimed Kushan heritage. The Kidarite seem to have been rather prosperous, although on a smaller scale than their Kushan predecessors.\n\nThese remnants of the Kushan empire were ultimately wiped out in the 5th century by the invasions of the Hephthalites, the Alchon Huns and the Nezak Huns in the northwest, and the rise of the Gupta Empire in the east.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1340623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1340623", "title": "List of Korean Buddhists", "text": "List of Korean Buddhists\n\nThe following is a list of Koreans who are Korean by ethnicity and Buddhist by religion.\n\n\n\n\nMonarchs \n\n"}
{"id": "3324175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3324175", "title": "List of Muslim Christianity scholars", "text": "List of Muslim Christianity scholars\n\nThis is an incomplete list of notable Muslim Christianity scholars. A Muslim Christianity scholar is a Muslim scholar engaged in Islamic Christianity studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "5137951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5137951", "title": "List of Protestant missionaries in India", "text": "List of Protestant missionaries in India\n\nSeveral SPCK, LMS, CMS, SPG, Zenana mission, Medical Mission, American Mission, Danish Mission, and Methodist Mission missionaries have contributed for the progressive Christian community in India. These missionaries have made a vast contributions in the districts of Tinnevelly and Travancore, which covers most of the southern Tamil Nadu. These missions were mostly influenced under the direct control of the Church of England.\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of Protestant missionaries in India. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54359245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54359245", "title": "List of Slovenian Catholic bishops", "text": "List of Slovenian Catholic bishops\n\nThis is a list of Slovenian Roman Catholic Bishops.\n"}
{"id": "33623490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33623490", "title": "List of best-selling Christmas singles in the United States", "text": "List of best-selling Christmas singles in the United States\n\nThis page shows the best-selling Christmas singles in the United States. It includes artists from around the world, but it only reflects sales in the United States of America. According to the \"Guinness Book of World Records\", \"White Christmas\" by Bing Crosby is not only the best-selling Christmas/holiday single in the United States, but also the best-selling single of all time, with estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide.\n\nPrior to March 1, 1991, the only means of tracking sales figures for record albums and singles in the United States was via the certification system of the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), based specifically on shipments (less potential returns) on a long-term basis. From March 1, 1991, through the present day, the Nielsen SoundScan tracking system has been more widely used to accurately track sales of record albums and singles at the point of sale (POS) based on inventory bar code scans, as well as digital music download sales starting in 2003. As of November 25, 2016, the holiday single with the most digital downloads is Mariah Carey's 1994 track \"All I Want for Christmas Is You,\" which SoundScan estimates as having sold 3,200,000 copies.\n\nThis is a list of the top ten best-selling Christmas singles of the SoundScan era in the United States according to the Nielsen Company, as last updated on November 25, 2016. Nielsen SoundScan began tracking digital download sales data at the end of June 2003.\n\nThis is an incomplete list of the best-selling Christmas/holiday singles in the United States based on certification by the RIAA. This list provides a more complete representation of the best-selling Christmas/holiday albums in history, as it includes those released well before the Nielsen/SoundScan era of music sales.\n\nAccording to the most recent record album certifications, the holiday single title with the highest RIAA certification is Elvis Presley's 1964 single \"Blue Christmas\", which is certified Platinum by the RIAA (though its date of certification came more than ten years after the RIAA reduced the threshold for Platinum level for singles from two million copies to one million copies).\n\n"}
{"id": "2268226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2268226", "title": "List of cave monasteries", "text": "List of cave monasteries\n\nA cave monastery is a monastery built in caves, with possible outside facilities. The 3rd-century monk St. Anthony the Great, known as the founder of monasticism, lived in a cave.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "260818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=260818", "title": "Marbas", "text": "Marbas\n\nIn demonology, Marbas or Barbas is a demon described in the Ars Goetia. He is described as the Great President of Hell governing thirty-six legions of demons. He answers truly on hidden or secret things, causes and heals diseases, teaches medical arts, and changes men into other shapes. He is depicted as a great lion that, under the conjurer's request, changes shape into a man.\n\nThe name Barbas also comes from the Latin \"barba\", beard, hellebore (a plant used in witchcraft, especially to invoke demons), and also a male name. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32312452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32312452", "title": "Messiah Part II", "text": "Messiah Part II\n\nMessiah (HWV 56), the English-language oratorio composed by George Frideric Handel in 1741, is structured in three parts. This listing covers Part II in a table and comments on individual movements, reflecting the relation of the musical setting to the text. Part I begins with the prophecy of the Messiah and his birth, shows the annunciation to the shepherds and reflects the Messiah's deeds on earth. Part II covers the Passion in nine movements including the oratorio's longest movement, an air for alto He was despised, then mentions death, resurrection, ascension, and reflects the spreading of the Gospel and its rejection. The part is concluded by a scene called \"God's Triumph\" that culminates in the \"Hallelujah Chorus\". Part III of the oratorio concentrates on Paul's teaching of the and Christ's glorification in heaven.\nThe libretto by Charles Jennens is entirely drawn from the Bible, mostly from the King James Bible, whereas several psalms are taken from the Book of Common Prayer. The librettist commented: \"... the Subject excells every other Subject. The Subject is Messiah ...\". \"Messiah\" differs from Handel's other oratorios by telling no story, instead offering reflections on different aspects of the Christian Messiah. Christopher Hogwood comments:\n\nThe oratorio's structure follows the liturgical year; Part I corresponding with Advent, Christmas and the life of Jesus, Part II with Lent, Easter, Ascension and Pentecost, Part III with the end of the church year, dealing with the end of time, the and Christ's glorification in heaven. The sources are drawn mostly from the Old Testament. Even the birth and death of Jesus are told in the words of the prophet Isaiah, the most prominent source of the libretto. The only true scene of the oratorio is taken from the Gospel of Luke, the annunciation to the shepherds. The imagery of shepherd and lamb features prominently, in the aria \"He shall feed His flock like a shepherd\", the only extended piece to talk about the Messiah on earth, in the opening of Part II, \"Behold the Lamb of God\", in the chorus \"All we like sheep\", and in the closing chorus of the work, \"Worthy is the Lamb\". Occasionally verses from different biblical sources are combined in one movement, but more often a coherent text section is set in different consecutive movements, such as the first \"scene\", the annunciation of Christian salvation, as a sequence of three movements, recitative, aria and chorus.\n\nWhen Handel composed \"Messiah\" in London, he was already a successful and experienced composer of Italian operas. He had started in 1713 to also compose sacred music on English texts, such as the \"Utrecht Te Deum and Jubilate\". He set many oratorios on English libretti. In \"Messiah\" he used practically the same musical means as for those works, namely a structure based on chorus and solo singing. Only a few movements are a duet or a combination of solo and chorus. The solos are typically a combination of recitative and aria. The arias are called Air or Song, some of them have da capo form, but rarely in a strict sense, repeating a first section after a sometimes contrasting middle section. Handel finds various ways to use the format freely, in order to convey the text. The movements marked \"Recitative\" (Rec.) are \"secco\", only accompanied by the basso continuo. Recitatives marked \"Accompagnato\" (Acc.) are accompanied by additional string instruments. Handel uses four voice parts in both solo and chorus, soprano (S), alto (A), tenor (T) and bass (B). Only once is the chorus divided in an upper chorus and a lower chorus, it is SATB otherwise. The orchestra scoring is simple: oboes, strings and basso continuo of harpsichord, violoncello, violone and bassoon. Two trumpets and timpani highlight selected movements, such as the closing movements of Part II, \"Hallelujah\". Handel uses a cantus firmus on long repeated notes especially to illustrate God's speech and majesty, such as \"King of Kings\" in the \"Hallelujah chorus\".\n\nThe following table is organized by movement numbers. There are two major systems of numbering the movements of \"Messiah\": the historic Novello edition of 1959 (which is based on earlier editions and contains 53 movements), and the Bärenreiter edition of 1965 in the Hallische Händel-Ausgabe. Not counting some short recitatives as separate movements, there are therefore 47 movements. In the table below, the Novello number (Nov) is given first and is the index for the notes to individual movements in the \"movements\" section, then the Bärenreiter number (Bär).\n\nTo emphasise the movements in which the oboes (ob) and the rarely used trumpets (tr) and timpani (ti) play, the summary below does not mention the regular basso continuo and the strings in movements. Details on the development of keys, different tempo markings times within a movement are given in notes on the individual movements. Movements originally in Italian (It) are indicated in the Source column, however the exact origin is supplied in the notes on the movement.\n\nScene 1 is the longest scene of the oratorio and reflects the Passion, in Jennens' words \"Christ's Passion; the scourging and the agony on the cross\", in nine individual movements, including the longest one, the Air for alto \"He was despised\". Part II is the only part opened by a chorus, and continues to be dominated by choral singing. Block observes that the emphasis on the Passion differs from modern western popular Christianity, which prefers to stress the nativity of the Messiah.\n\nBehold the Lamb of God\n\nThe opening chorus \"Behold the Lamb of God\" begins like a French overture in G minor, a key of \"tragic presentiment\", according to Christopher Hogwood. The continuo drops an octave, then the violins rise an octave, to express \"Behold\". After only three instrumental measures the voices proclaim the Testimony of John the Baptist, , which recalls Isaiah 53. The alto begins, followed after half a measure each by the soprano, the bass, and finally the tenor. After the initial rise, the melody falls in dotted rhythms, but rises on \"that taketh away the sin of the world\". The melody shows similarity to the beginning of \"He shall feed his flock\", but \"sharpened\" from major to minor, from triplets to dotted rhythm, and by the octave leap in the beginning.\n\nHe was despised\n\nIsaiah wrote in his Songs of the suffering servant in the fourth song about the Man of Sorrows: \"He was despised, rejected of men, a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief\" (). Isaiah states in his songs that \"the Messiah will play a substitutionary sacrificial role on behalf of his people\". Handel gives the pitiful description to the alto solo in the longest movement of the oratorio in terms of duration. It is a da capo aria, showing two contrasting moods, set in E flat major in the first section, C minor in the middle section. The vocal line begins with an ascending fourth on \"he was\" and adds another one on \"despi-sed\", ending as a sigh. The signal of a fourth has been observed by musicologist Rudolf Steglich as a unifying motif of the oratorio. Handel breaks the beginning of the text up to a stammering \"He was despised, – despised and rejected, – rejected of men, ... – despi-sed – rejected\", the words interspersed with rests as long as the words, as if exhausted. Soft sighing motifs of the violins, an echo of the singing, drop into these rests. Hogwood interprets the unaccompanied passages as emphasizing \"Christ's abandonment\". The middle section is also full of dramatic rests, but now the voice is set on a ceaseless agitated pattern of fast dotted notes in the instruments, illustrating the hits of the smiters in text from the third song (), where the words appear in the first person: \"He gave his back – to the smiters – ... and His cheeks – to them – that plucked off the hair. – He hid – not his face – from shame – and spitting.\"\n\nSurely, He hath borne our griefs\n\nThe dotted rhythm returns in instruments and voices in the chorus \"Surely, He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows\", the continuation of Isaiah's text, set in F minor. The chorus continues with the remainder of Isaiah 53:5 and ends on the words \"the chastisement of our peace was upon him\".\n\nAnd with His stripes we are healed\n\nIn the same key the chorus continues with a fugue \"And with His stripes we are healed\". The theme begins with a sequence of five long notes, which Mozart quoted in the Kyrie-fugue of his \"Requiem\". The characteristic ascending fourth opens the countersubject. The word \"healed\" is later stressed by both long melismas and long notes.\n\nAll we like sheep\n\nStill continuing Isaiah's text, \"All we like sheep, have gone astray\" is set as a fast chorus in F-major on a walking bass with irregular patterns and leaps. The voices utter twice together \"All we like sheep\", then two voice parts move simultaneously in different directions on \"have gone astray\", with the last syllable extended to eleven notes. The next bit of the text \"we have turned\" is illustrated by fast coloraturas, lacking direction. In a dramatic sudden adagio, full of chromatic tension, the movement ends on \"and the Lord hath laid on Him the iniquity of us all\". Myers comments about the chorus, which seems out of place at first sight: \"In Handel’s famous chorus sin glories in its shame with almost alcoholic exhilaration. His lost sheep meander hopelessly through a wealth of intricate semi quavers, stumbling over decorous roulades and falling into mazes of counterpoint that prove inextricable. A less dramatic composer than Handel would scarcely have rendered his solemn English text with such defiance, for the discrepancy between the self-accusing words and his vivacious music is patent to any listener emancipated from the lethargy of custom.\" The movement is based on the final section of the duet for two sopranos \"Nò, di voi non vo' fidarmi\" (HWV 189, July 1741).\n\nAll they that see Him, laugh Him to scorn\n\nThe thought \"All they that see Him, laugh Him to scorn\" is taken from Psalm 22 (), the psalm from which Jesus quoted on the cross, according to Mark and Matthew. The text is set as a short tenor accompagnato, again based on a pattern of dotted notes in the instruments. The strings through in violent figures after \"laugh Him to scorn\" and \"shoot out their lips\", similar to an outburst of laughter. The key of B flat minor is termed \"remote and barbarous\" by Hogwood.\n\nHe trusted in God, that He would deliver Him\n\nWhat they say is given to the chorus as a strict fugue in C minor: \"He trusted in God, that He would deliver Him, if He delight in Him.\" Jonathan Keates observes that Handel depicts the mocking, menacing crowd here, comparable to the turbae in Bach's Passions.\n\nThy rebuke hath broken His heart\n\nThe tenor returns to sing a verse of the Psalm 69: \"Thy rebuke hath broken His heart\" (). Aching chromatic chords picture the broken heart. The accompagnato begins in A flat major, shifts without stability and ends in B major. The tenor voice, going to report death and resurrection in scene 2, is comparable to the Evangelist in the Passions of Bach.\n\nBehold, and see if there be any sorrow\n\nThe tenor arioso \"Behold, and see if there be any sorrow\" () is based on text from the Book of Lamentations which is frequently associated with Good Friday, both Jesus and his mother Mary, although it originally lamented the destruction of Jerusalem. In the short movement in E minor, the accompaniment pauses rather regularly on the first and third beat of a measure.\n\nScene 2 covers death and resurrection in two tenor solo movements.\n\nHe was cut off out of the land of the living\n\nIn a restrained way, the death of the Messiah is told in another tenor accompagnato, as foretold by Isaiah, \"He was cut off out of the land of the living\" (). Long chords begin in B minor and end in E major.\n\nBut Thou didst not leave his soul in hell\n\nHis resurrection is again told by the tenor in an Air according to Psalm 16, \"But Thou didst not leave his soul in hell\" ().\n\nScene 3 refers in a chorus to the ascension.\n\nLift up your heads\n\n\"Lift up your heads\" is a line from Psalm 24 (). Since the text has questions (\"Who is the King of Glory?\") and answers (\"He is the King of Glory\"), Handel divides the choir in the first section to a high, announcing group (sopranos I and II, alto) and a low, questioning group (alto, tenor, bass).\n\nScene 4 covers the Messiah's position in heaven, following the teaching from the Epistle to the Hebrews in two verses, .\n\nUnto which of the angels said he at any time\n\nIn a short recitative the tenor renders the first verse, quoting Hebrews (), \"Unto which of the angels said he at any time\", about the Messiah as the begotten Son of God.\n\nLet all the angels of God worship Him\n\nThe second verse \"Let all the angels of God worship Him\" (Hebrews 1:6) is a festive chorus in D major.\n\nScene 5 alludes to Pentecost and the beginning of preaching the Gospel.\n\nThou art gone up on high\n\nPentecost is referred to rather indirectly, without naming the Holy Spirit. \"Thou art gone up on high\" from Psalm 68 () reflects \"gifts for men\" and \"that God might dwell among them\", expressed in swinging 3/4 time. Originally written for bass, Handel rewrote the Air in London in 1750 for the castrato Gaetano Guadagni. However, the earlier editions (Novello, Best and Prout) all give this air to the Bass, in D minor; the current Novello edition by Watkins Shaw, as well as the Bäreneiter edition by John Tobin and the CF Peters edition by Donald Burrows all give the air to Alto (in D minor), and they provide transpositions for Soprano and Bass as well.\n\nThe Lord gave the word\n\nThe thoughts are continued in an earlier verse from the same psalm () as a chorus in B flat major. \"The Lord gave the word\" is sung by just two voice parts, \"Great was the company of the preachers\" expanded for four parts with long coloraturas on \"company\".\n\nHow beautiful are the feet of Him\n\nThe preachers are described tenderly in a duet in D minor and 3/4 time, as written first by Isaiah () and quoted by Paul in his Epistle to the Romans (: \"How beautiful are the feet of Him\". Two alto voices begin and are joined by the choir, stressing \"good tidings\", \"break forth into joy\" and culminating on a cantus firmus of one repeated note: \"Thy God reigneth!\" Block, quoting , reflects that you see the feet of a messenger if you \"fall prostrate before a superior. In the Bible, when people are confronted by a heavenly messenger (angel) the natural response is to fall down on one’s face before the messenger.\" Handel's original version, a duet in D minor for two altos and chorus or soprano, alto and chorus, was later rewritten by him in 1749 as an aria for soprano in G minor and 12/8 time and in 1750 transposed for alto in C minor.\n\nTheir sound is gone out into all lands\n\nBased on a number of Bible references, a tenor arioso describes the preachers further: \"Their sound is gone out into all lands\" (, ). In another Handel's version (so called version B), which is commonly preferred by performers now, the same text is set to new music and scored for chorus.\n\nScene 6 shows the difficulties and rejection of the preaching, based on four consecutive verses from Psalm 2, . It is the first text in the oratorio actually referring to the Messiah, the \"anointed one\" (verse 2).\n\nWhy do the nations so furiously rage together\n\nAn Air for bass in C major, accompanied by an orchestra in continuous motion, tells of the difficulties. \"Why do the nations so furiously rage together\". The term \"rage\" is expressed by a long melisma in triplets.\n\nLet us break their bonds asunder\n\nThe choir continues the thought; the intention \"Let us break their bonds asunder\" is expressed in a fast succession of entries of the voices.\n\nHe that dwelleth in heaven\n\nThe text continues in a short tenor recitative: \"He that dwelleth in heaven\".\n\nScene 7 is called \"God's triumph\" by Jennens.\n\nThou shalt break them with a rod of iron\n\nA forceful Air for tenor tells of God's power against enemies, again taken from Psalm 2: \"Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron\" ().\n\nHallelujah\n\nPart II closes with the chorus \"Hallelujah\", in the key of D major with trumpets and timpani. The choir introduces in homophony a characteristic simple motif on the word, playing with the interval of a second, which re-appears throughout the piece. Several lines from the Book of Revelation (, ) are treated differently, as in a motet, but unified by \"Hallelujah\" as a conclusion or as a countersubject in a fugal section. The line \"for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth\" is sung by all voices, first in unison, then in imitation with Hallelujah-exclamations interspersed. The second line \"The kingdom of this world is become\" is sung in a four-part setting like a chorale. The third idea \"and he shall reign for ever and ever\" starts as a fugue on a theme with bold leaps, reminiscent in sequence of Philipp Nicolai's Lutheran chorale \"Wachet auf\". As a countersubject, the words \"for ever – and ever\" assume the rhythm of the Hallelujah-motif. The final acclamation \"King of Kings...and Lord of Lords\" is sung on one note, energized by repeated calls \"Hallelujah\" and \"for ever – and ever\", raised higher and higher (the sopranos and the trumpets part), up to a rest full of tension and a final solemn \"Hallelujah\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5282531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5282531", "title": "Ontario (Human Rights Commission) v Simpsons-Sears Ltd", "text": "Ontario (Human Rights Commission) v Simpsons-Sears Ltd\n\nOntario (Human Rights Commission) v Simpsons-Sears Ltd, [1985] 2 SCR 536 is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision where the Court first acknowledged the existence of indirect discrimination through conduct that creates prejudicial effect.\n\nTheresa O'Malley was a Seventh-day Adventist who was employed by the retailer Simpsons-Sears. As part of her religion, she was forbidden from working from sundown on Friday to sundown on Saturday. There were no full-time shifts available that did not require work on Friday and Saturday, so the company terminated her employment.\n\nSimpsons-Sears argued that by requiring all its employees to work Fridays and Saturdays, it was not intentionally trying to discriminate against her; rather, it was a neutral requirement it imposed on all employees.\n\nThe issue before the Supreme Court was whether the requirement that all employees work on Friday and Saturday was discriminatory against her religion.\n\nMcIntyre J, writing for a unanimous Court, held Simpons-Sears had discriminated against O'Malley. Despite the reasonable basis for the requirement, the company did not try to make any changes to the work schedule to accommodate O'Malley's religious requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "9348255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9348255", "title": "Our Lady of Lebanon", "text": "Our Lady of Lebanon\n\nThe Shrine of Our Lady of Lebanon (, \"Sayyidat Lubnān\"; ) is a Marian shrine and a pilgrimage site in Lebanon.\n\nThe shrine belongs to the Maronite Patriarchate who entrusted its administration to the Congregation of Maronite Lebanese Missionaries since its foundation in 1904. It is one of the most important shrines in the world honoring Mary, Mother of Jesus. The shrine is highlighted by a huge, 15-ton bronze statue. It is 8.5 m high, and has a diameter of five meters. The Virgin Mary stretches her hands towards Beirut. \n\nThe Shrine of Our Lady of Lebanon draws millions of faithful both Christians and Muslims from all over the world. The 50th jubilee in 1954 was also the hundredth anniversary of the establishment of the Catholic dogma of the Immaculate Conception. During these celebrations, Pope Pius XII sent his representative, Cardinal Angelo Roncalli (later to become Pope John XXIII) to Lebanon. Pope John Paul II visited Our Lady of Lebanon in 1997. \n\nThe Congregation of Maronite Lebanese Missionaries, responsible for the administration, works at reinforcing relations among all local Churches, Christian communities and apostolic movements.\n\nThe Lebanese Christians as well as the Druze and Muslims have a special devotion to Mary, Mother of Jesus. The Maronite Patriarch of Antioch named her the \"Queen of Lebanon\" in 1908 upon completion of the shrine. Overlooking the bay of Jounieh, the shrine has become a major tourist attraction where tourists take the gondola lift, the \"Téléphérique\", from the city of Jounieh to Harissa.\n\nThe Statue of Our Lady of Lebanon is a French-made, 13-ton statue, made of bronze and painted white, of the Virgin Mary. It was erected in 1907 on top of a hill, 650 meters above sea level, in the village of Harissa, 20 km north of Beirut in honor of Our Lady of Lebanon. The land was donated by Yousef Khazen. It was made up of seven sections that were assembled on top of the stone base, which had a bottom perimeter of 64m, an upper perimeter of 12m and with an overall height of 20m. The height of the statue is 8.50m while its perimeter is 5.50m. The statue and the shrine were inaugurated in 1908, and it has become a major pilgrimage destination.\n\nPope John Paul II visited the shrine when he made an official visit to Lebanon on May 10, 1997. He conducted a mass in the modern Basilica. On December 8, 1998, the Vatican announced that the World Day of the Sick would be celebrated on February 11, 1999 at Our Lady of Lebanon in Harissa. Pope John Paul II prayed that Our Lady of Lebanon who had watched over the agonizing suffering of the Lebanese people could help all those who were suffering in the world.\n\nPope Benedict XVI launched an appeal for peace in Lebanon and Gaza by invoking the protection of Our Lady of Lebanon on January 28, 2007. He said, \"To Christians in Lebanon, I repeat the exhortation to be promoters of real dialogue between the various communities, and upon everyone I invoke the protection of Our Lady of Lebanon.\"\n\nThe Apostolic Nuncio to Lebanon as well as the residences of four Eastern Catholic Churches patriarchs reside in the vicinity of the shrine of Our Lady of Lebanon.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46746545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46746545", "title": "Palpung Europe", "text": "Palpung Europe\n\nPalpung Europe (wylie: \"dpal spungs ye shes chos 'khor gling\" དཔལ་སྤུངས་ཡེ་ཤེས་ཆོས་འཁོར་གླིང་།), fully Palpung Yeshe Chökhor Ling Europe is the European Seat of the Palpung Congregation of H. H. Chamgon Kenting Tai Situ Rinpoche which was established by and is under the direction of Chöje Lama Palmo. The City Institute is based in the Viennese Forest in Purkersdorf, the Rural Institute lies in the Bohemian Forest in the border triangle of Austria, Germany and Czech Republique, in Langschlag.\n\nPalpung Europe are Buddhist Institutes and practice groups of the Marpa Kagyu Tradition und Palpung lineage of Vajrayana. The Monastic Seat Palpung Sherab Ling in H. P., India is the Seat of the Palpung Congregation outside of Tibet. Its Supreme Head is Chamgon Kenting Tai Situ Rinpoche, currently in his 12th incarnation, is the Root guru of the 17th Gyalwa Karmapa, Orgyen Thrinle Dorje.\n\nIn 1997 Chamgon Kenting Tai Situ Rinpoche bestowed the original name. In 2004, after Chöje Lama Palmo had completed her three-year retreat under Khenpo Karthar Rinpoche in the USA, she was upon the request of individuals sent to Austria by Chamgon Tai Situ Rinpoche. First the center had its house in a rented apartment, until a house in Purkersdorf was purchased in December 2009 and the farm in Langschlag in 2014.\n\nThe activities are dedicated to preserving the lineage Buddha Shakyamuni's and to bring peace and harmony into the world. H. H. Dalai Lama and H. H. Karmapa conferred their personal blessing on March 8, 2006. Interreligious exchanges according to the Rimé movement are an important objective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42032162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42032162", "title": "Paul Hendrickson", "text": "Paul Hendrickson\n\nPaul Hendrickson (born April 29, 1944) is an American author, journalist, and professor. He is a senior lecturer and member of the Department of English at the University of Pennsylvania. He is a former member of the writing staff at the \"Washington Post\".\n\nHe has been honored with two writing fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), as well as fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation, Lyndhurst Foundation, and Alicia Patterson Foundation. In 2003, he received the National Book Critics Circle Award and the \"Chicago Tribune's\" Heartland Prize for \"Sons of Mississippi: A Story of Race and Its Legacy\". In 2012, he was honored with a second Heartland Prize for \"Hemingway's Boat: Everything He Loved in Life, and Lost, 1934-1961\". It was also a \"New York Times\" bestseller and finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award. , Hendrickson was writing a book about Frank Lloyd Wright, supported through a fellowship with the NEA.\n\nPaul Joseph Hendrickson was born on April 29, 1944 in Fresno, California. He is the son of Joseph Paul and Rita Bernice (née Kyne) Hendrickson. He was raised in Kankakee and Wheaton, Illinois. From age 14 to 21, Hendrickson attended Missionary Servants of the Most Holy Trinity Catholic seminary in Alabama, intent on preparing for the priesthood. He attended St. Louis University, earning a Bachelor's degree in English in 1967. He also earned a Master's degree in 1968 in English, with a concentration in American literature from Pennsylvania State University.\n\nOn September 13, 1969, Hendrickson married Sunday Barbagallo. The marriage ended in divorce in February 1974. On March 10, 1979, he married Cecilia Moffatt, a nurse. Together, they have two grown sons, John and Matthew. Hendrickson and his wife live in Havertown, Pennsylvania.\n\nFollowing his 1968 graduation from Pennsylvania State University, Hendrickson began his journalism career, serving as a publicist, writer, and producer on staff at WPSX-TV in University Park, Pennsylvania. In 1971, he joined the reporting team of the travel magazine \"Holiday\", based out of Indianapolis, Indiana. After two years, he signed on as a reporter for the \"Detroit Free Press\" broadsheet newspaper of Detroit, Michigan. In 1974, he began reporting for the \"National Observer\" in Washington, DC, remaining on staff through 1977, when the publication ceased.\n\nIn 1977, Hendrickson joined the staff of \"The Washington Post\" as a feature writer and reporter for the newspaper's Style section, covering culture and the arts. He remained with the organization through 2001.\n\nWhen he was working on staff at \"The Washington Post\", Hendrickson began facilitating nonfiction writing workshops at the University of Pennsylvania. In 1998, he joined the faculty of the university, where he is now a senior lecturer. In 2005, the university honored him with the Provost's Award for Distinguished Teaching. In 2009, he served as a visiting professor at Duke University, where he taught documentary practice. He also taught American studies at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.\n\n, Hendrickson has written five nonfiction books, including a memoir and biographies about Marion Post Wolcott, Robert McNamara, and Ernest Hemingway.\n\nHis first book, \"Seminary: A Search\", was published in 1983. A memoir, the work presented his early life studying for the priesthood in Alabama during the 1950s and 1960s. In October 1982, \"Playboy Magazine\" printed an excerpt of the book entitled \"Fear of Faggotry: Growing Up in the Seminary\". The magazine named the book the best nonfiction work of the year.\n\nHis second book, \"Looking For The Light: The Hidden Life and Art of Marion Post Wolcott\" (1992), gained critical acclaim. It was a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award.\n\n\"The Living and the Dead: Robert McNamara and Five Lives of a Lost War\" was published by Alfred A. Knopf. \"The New York Times\" referred to the book as \"a work that approaches a Shakespearean tragedy\". Steve Weinberg of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" said that it was \"meticulously reported, exquisitely written\". The work was named a finalist for the National Book Award and recognized as a New York Times Notable Book, while Salon.com ranked it as the Nonfiction Book of the Year.\n\n\n\"Sons of Mississippi\" deals with seven white sheriffs photographed by Charles Moore in Oxford, Mississippi, on September 27, 1962. The first part of the book examines each of the sheriffs individually, in relation to their families and their home counties, and in the context of the segregated (\"totalitarian\") society of the time in Mississippi. The second part focuses on James Meredith, the first black student at the University of Mississippi. When he was admitted, the sheriffs were convened to deal with issues at the university. In the third segment, Hendrickson discusses the descendants of these sheriffs.\n\nWhile researching and writing the book, Hendrickson was financially supported through fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation and National Endowment for the Arts. Published in 2003, the book received the \"Chicago Tribune's\" Heartland Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award.\n\n\"Hemingway's Boat: Everything He Loved in Life, and Lost, 1934-1961\" (2011) was published by Knopf. While Hendrickson reportedly spent seven years writing the book, he began informal research in 1980, when he met Ernest Hemingway's younger brother, Leicester on a seaplane flight to the Bahamas. During their vacation in the Caribbean, Hendrickson and his wife had the opportunity to spend time with Leicester Hemingway, while researching and learning about the life of the deceased author. Seven years later, while Hendrickson was at \"The Washington Post\", he began an in-depth two-part series for the newspaper, which focused on the lives of author Hemingway's three children. Based on his 1980 Bahamas research and personal encounter with Leicester, along with the Hemingway series for the \"Post\", Hendrickson eventually began writing his book.\n\nAccording to Allan Massie in \"The Wall Street Journal\", Hendrickson spent at least 30 years contemplating the life of Hemingway, prior to writing his book. He spent time researching the life of Hemingway by reading biographies and articles written about the author. He also discussed the subject's life with Hemingway's sons and some of his grandchildren, friends, and associates. Massie surmised that Hendrickson most likely knows more about Hemingway than anyone living today or during Hemingway's lifetime. In their \"Best Nonfiction of 2011\" roundup, the \"Wall Street Journal\" named the work the best biography of 2011, additionally stating that in Hendrickson's book, \"Hemingway has never seemed so vivid or his work so heroic.\"\n\nThe work was a \"New York Times\" bestseller. It was on bestseller lists around the US, while the UK edition reached No. 3 on the London bestseller list. It was a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award, while \"The Chicago Tribune\" honored it with the 2012 Heartland Prize. , the work has gone to seven printings in hardcover. Howell Raines of \"The Washington Post\" in his review of the work stated that \"in the academic field of Hemingway studies, the book will stand as an indispensable document\". Olivia Laing of \"The Guardian\" states that Hendrickson is \"a miraculously lovely writer.\" In her review of \"Hemingway's Boat\", she reflects on his style of writing as \"twists and turns through time, moving sensitively between the books and life. He understands too the deep allure the ocean held for Hemingway\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38906588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38906588", "title": "Pir Budhan Shah", "text": "Pir Budhan Shah\n\nPir Budhan Shah (AD 1643), also called Baba Budhan Ali Shah, was a venerated Sufi pir who had religious discourse with Guru Nanak in Rawalpindi and later accepted Gurmat thought during times of Guru Har Gobind.\n\nBuddan Shah, a Muhammedan, belonged to a family of chieftains, but left everything to become a Sufi mystic. He lived near Rawalpindi. Guru Nanak met him during his travels.\n\nHe was very close to Bhai Bidhi Chand Chhina. His disciple Sunder Shah, died together with Bhai Bidhi Chand at Devnagar near Ayodhya.\n\nBudhan Shah lived up to the time of Sikh Guru Hargobind Sahib and died in 1643 and his Mausoleum is located on hilltop in Kiratpur Sahib about 200 meters to east of the ashram of Baba Gurditta and he is visited by both the Sikhs and Muslims of the region.\n"}
{"id": "10472612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10472612", "title": "Polygamy czar", "text": "Polygamy czar\n\nPolygamy czar is an informal title given to the \"Investigator of Crimes within Closed Societies\" for the Utah Attorney General's Office. The position was established by the Utah State Legislature in 2000. The office is responsible for investigating tax evasion, welfare fraud, child abuse, sex abuse, domestic violence and other crimes committed within Fundamentalist Mormon communities that practice plural marriage.\n\nA fictionalized czar was introduced in the HBO series \"Big Love\" in the episode \"Affair.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "48710103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48710103", "title": "Puruşārthasiddhyupāya", "text": "Puruşārthasiddhyupāya\n\nPuruşārthasiddhyupāya (Purushartha Siddhyupaya) is a major Jain text authored by Acharya Amritchandra. Acharya Amritchandra was a Digambara Acharya who lived in the tenth century (Vikram Samvat). \"Puruşārthasiddhyupāya\" deals with the conduct of householder (\"sravak\") in detail. Another major Jain text that deals with householder's conduct is Ratnakaranda śrāvakācāra. \"Puruşārthasiddhyupāya\" also deals extensively with the Jain concept of ahiṃsā.\n\nLike all Jain texts first \"sloka\" (aphorism) of \"Puruşārthasiddhyupāya\" is an invocation:\n\nPuruşārthasiddhyupāya deals extensively with the Jaina concept of ahimsa (non-injury) particularly in reference to its observance as a minor vow (\"anuvrata\") by the \"Śrāvaka\". In \"Verse 43\" deliberate himsa (injury) is defined as “acting under the influence of passions, an injury caused to physical or psychical vitalities” (verse 43). Acharya Amritchandra then elaborates on the observances that help the householder in abiding by his minor vow of ahimsa. \nEleven verses (79-89), cautions the householder regarding certain misconstrued notions that people put forward to justify their acts of himsa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12797537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12797537", "title": "Rand Hummel", "text": "Rand Hummel\n\nJames Rand Hummel (born September 18, 1956) is an American author, preacher and camp administrator. He has worked for many years as Assistant Director of The Wilds Christian Camp/Conference Center in Brevard, North Carolina and in 2007, he was named Director of THE WILDS of New England in Deering, New Hampshire.\n\nRand Hummel was raised in Orangeville, Pennsylvania and became a Christian at the age of 6. He came from a broken family and for many years lived with his Grandparents. Despite growing up with a lot of anger problems, Rand continued to attend church. Although not a fundamentalist at first, he became unimpressed with what he perceived as a casual attitude toward God among many Christians. This led him to fundamentalism, and eventually, Bob Jones University in Greenville, South Carolina.\n\nRand received his B.A. from Bob Jones in 1978. Immediately after graduation, he went to work at The Wilds, a Christian camp in Brevard, North Carolina specializing in teen ministry. He was the Program Director there for 25 years. Describing his work, he said \"a lot of my job is simply the teens. I preach to them, counsel them, hang out with them, run the games... We actually have the best job on the campsite.\" Every summer Rand speaks to around 15,000 teenagers who come to the Wilds. He later became the Assistant Director, and in 2007 was appointed Director of The Wilds of New England.\n\nMaintaining a busy itinerary throughout the year, Rand preaches about 350 times annually. He has also written several books and Bible study guides. Much of his speaking and writing focuses on evangelism, the knowledge of God through personal daily devotions, and moral purity.\n\nHe has also been part of the BJU Seminary's adjunct faculty since 1999. He received an honorary doctorate from the school in 2004.\n\nRand and his wife Amber have had two miscarriages and one stillborn. He said that these experiences drew them closer to God. The Hummels also have two grown children.\n\nIn early March 2012, Rand suffered a mild heart attack and spent several days in the hospital. He has since recovered and is reported to have returned home in full health.\n\n\n\nBible Meditation Series\n\nSix-Week Bible Studies\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15942850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15942850", "title": "Religion in Ghana", "text": "Religion in Ghana\n\nChristianity is the largest religion in Ghana, with approximately 71.2% of Ghana's population being member of various Christian denominations as of 2010 census. The religious composition of Ghana in the first postindependence population census of 1960 was 25 percent Muslim, 23 percent traditionalist, 41 percent Christian, and the rest (about 9 percent) other. A breakdown of the 1960 population according to Christian sects showed that 25 percent were Protestant (non-Pentecostal); 13 percent, Roman Catholic; 2 percent, Protestant (Pentecostal); and 1 percent, Independent African Churches. The 1970 population census did not present figures on the religious composition of the nation.\n\nReligious tolerance in Ghana is very high. The major Christian celebrations of Christmas and Easter are recognized as national holidays. In the past, vacation periods have been planned around these occasions, thus permitting both Christians and others living away from home to visit friends and family in the rural areas. Ramadan, the Islamic month of fasting, is observed by Muslims in Ghana and important traditional occasions are celebrated. These festivals include the Adae, which occur fortnightly, and the annual Odwira festivals. There is also the annual Apoo festival activities, which is a kind of Mardi Gras and is held in towns across Ghana.\n\nThere is no significant link between ethnicity and religion in Ghana.\n\nThe presence of Christian missionaries on the coast of Ghana has been dated to the arrival of the Portuguese in the fifteenth century. It was the Basel/Presbyterian and Wesleyan/Methodist missionaries, however, who, in the nineteenth century, laid the foundation for the Christian church in Ghana. Beginning their conversions in the coastal area and amongools as \"nurseries of the church\" in which an educated African class was trained. There are secondary schools today, especially exclusively boys and girls schools, that are mission- or church-related institutions. Church schools have been opened to all since the state assumed financial responsibility for formal instruction under the Education Act of 1960.\n\nVarious Christian denominations are represented in Ghana, including Evangelical Presbyterian and Catholicism. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), in addition to chapels, has a temple in Accra, one of only three LDS temples on the African continent.\n\nThe unifying organization of Christians in the country is the Ghana Christian Council, founded in 1929. Representing the Methodist, Anglican, Mennonite, Presbyterian, Evangelical Presbyterian, African Methodist Episcopal Zionist, Christian Methodist, Evangelical Lutheran, and Baptist churches, and the Society of Friends, the council serves as the link with the World Council of Churches and other ecumenical bodies. The Seventh-day Adventist Church, not a member of Christian Council, has a strong presence in Ghana. The Church opened the premier private and Christian University in Ghana.\n\nThe National Catholic Secretariat, established in 1960, also coordinates the different in-country dioceses. These Christian organizations, concerned primarily with the spiritual affairs of their congregations, have occasionally acted in circumstances described by the government as political. Such was the case in 1991 when both the Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Ghana Christian Council called on the military government of the Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC) to return the country to constitutional rule. The Roman Catholic newspaper, The Standard, was often critical of government policies.\n\nA 2015 study estimates some 50,000 Christians from a Muslim background in the country, though not all of them are necessarily citizens.\n\nThe rise of Apostolic or Pentecostal churches across the nation partly demonstrates the impact of social change and the eclectic nature of traditional cultures. Some establishments have drum societies and singing groups and the independent African and Pentecostal churches reflected in figures for membership that rose from 1 and 2 percent, respectively, in 1960, to 14 and 8 percent, respectively, according to a 1985 estimate.\n\nIn the north, Islam is represented and the spread of Islam into Dagbon, was mainly the result of the commercial activities of North African Muslims. Islam made its entry into the northern territories of modern Ghana around the fifteenth century. Berber traders and clerics carried the religion into the area. Most Muslims in Ghana are Sunni, following Maliki school of jurisprudence. \n\nThose following the Maliki version of Islamic law and Sufism, involving the organization of mystical brotherhoods (tariq) for the purification and spread of Islam, is not widespread in Ghana. The Tijaniyah and the Qadiriyah brotherhoods are represented. The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, a sect originating in nineteenth-century India, is the only non-Sunni order in the country. \n\nDespite the spread of Islam in the Middle East and North Africa since the mid-1970s, Muslims and Christians in Ghana have had excellent relations. Guided by the authority of the Muslim Representative Council, religious, social, and economic matters affecting Muslims have often been redressed through negotiations. The Muslim Council has also been responsible for arranging pilgrimages to Mecca for believers who can afford the journey. Nevertheless, there remains a gap between Muslims and Christians in Ghana. As society in Ghana modernized, Muslims were blocked from taking part in the modernization process. This is largely because access to jobs required Western education, and this education was only available in missionary schools. Many Muslims feared that sending their children to missionary schools may result in religious conversion.\n\nTraditional religions in Ghana have retained their influence because of their intimate relation to family loyalties and local mores. The traditional cosmology expresses belief in a supreme being referred as [Nyogmo-Ga, Mawu -Dangme and Ewe, Nyame-Twi] and the supreme being is usually thought of as remote from daily religious life and is, therefore, not directly worshipped. \n\nThere are also the lesser gods that take \"residency\" in streams, rivers, trees, and mountains. These gods are generally perceived as intermediaries between the supreme being and society. Ancestors and numerous other spirits are also recognized as part of the cosmological order. The spirit world is considered to be as real as the world of the living. The dual worlds of the mundane and the sacred are linked by a network of mutual relationships and responsibilities. The action of the living, for example, can affect the gods or spirits of the departed, while the support of family ancestors ensures prosperity of the lineage or state. \n\nVeneration of departed ancestors is a major characteristic of all traditional religions. The ancestors are believed to be the most immediate link with the spiritual world, and they are thought to be constantly near, observing every thought and action of the living. To ensure that a natural balance is maintained between the world of the sacred and that of the profane, the roles of the family elders in relation to the lineage within society are crucial. The religious functions, especially lineage heads, are clearly demonstrated during such periods as the Odwira, Homowo, or the Aboakyir, that are organized in activities that renew and strengthen relations with ancestors.\n\nThe Rastafari movement is a movement that arose in Jamaica in the 1930s. Its adherents worship Haile Selassie I, Emperor of Ethiopia (1930–1974), as God incarnate, the Second Advent, or the reincarnation of Jesus. According to beliefs, Haile Selassie was the 225th in an unbroken line of Ethiopian monarchs of the Solomonic Dynasty. This dynasty is said to have been founded in the 10th century BC by Menelik I, the son of the Biblical King Solomon and Makeda, the Queen of Sheba, who had visited Solomon in Israel.\n\nThe Rastafari movement encompasses themes such as the spiritual use of cannabis and the rejection of western society, called 'Babylon'. It proclaims Africa, also known as 'Zion' as the original birthplace of mankind. Another theme is Royalty, with Rastas seeing themselves as African royalty and using honorifics such as Prince or King in order to give royalty to their names.\n\nMany Rastas say that it is not a \"religion\" at all, but a \"Way of Life\". Rastafari are generally monotheists, worshipping a singular God whom they call Jah. Rastas see Jah as being in the form of the Holy Trinity, that is, Father, Son and the Holy Spirit. Rastas say that Jah, in the form of the Holy Spirit, lives within the human.\n\nAfrocentrism is another central facet of the Rastafari culture. They teach that Africa, in particular Ethiopia, is where Zion, or paradise, shall be created. As such, Rastafari orients itself around African culture. Rastafari holds that evil society, or \"Babylon\", has always been white-dominated, and has committed such acts of aggression against the African people as the Atlantic slave trade. Despite this Afrocentrism and focus on people of the black race, members of other races, including whites, are found and accepted by Blacks among the movement, for they believe Rasta is for all people.\n\nThere are Rasta communities all around the world. In Ghana, particularly in the coast, there are many Rastafari places of worship. The Rasta community around Kokrobite is well known throughout Ghana. Many Rasta music festivals occur and Rasta objects are sold.\n\nHinduism has been practiced in Ghana since 1947. Hinduism is spread in Ghana actively by Ghana's Hindu Monastery headed by Swami Ghananand Saraswati and Hare Krishnas. Sathya Sai Organisation, Ananda Marga and Brahma Kumaris are also active in Ghana. Hindu temples have been constructed in Accra.There are about 25,000 or 0.1% Hindus in the country.\n\nAfrikania Mission is a Neo-Traditional Movement established in Ghana in 1982 by a former Catholic Priest, Kwabena Damuah, who resigned from the church and assumed the traditional priesthood titles, Osofo Okomfo. The Mission aims to reform and update African traditional religion, and to promote nationalism and Pan-Africanism. Rather than being a single new religious movement, Afrikania also organizes various traditional shrines and traditional healers into associations bringing unity to a diffused system and thereby a greater voice in the public arena. Afrikania has instituted an annual convention for the traditional religion. \n\nIt has become a mouthpiece of traditional religion in Ghana through its publications, lectures, seminars, press conferences, and radio and television broadcast in which it advocates a return to traditional religion and culture as the spiritual basis for the development of Africa. The Mission is also known by other names such as AMEN RA (derived from Egyptian religion, and interpreted to mean ‘God Centred’), Sankofa faith (implying a return to African roots for spiritual and moral values) and Godian Religion, which it adopted briefly during a period of association with Godianism, a Nigerian-based neo-traditional Movement.\n\nIn 1998 the first Nichiren Shoshu Temple in Africa was opened in Accra. Ghana has the largest Nichiren Shoshu Temple outside of Japan. The temple is located at Anyaa-Ablekuma Road at the Fan Milk Junction in Accra. There are other small Buddhist prayer spaces in larger cities, and with a proper request and a small donation, you would be welcome for meditation and chanting.\n\nAtheism and Agnosticism is difficult to measure in Ghana.\n\nFreedom of religion exists in Ghana. A Religious Bodies (Registration) Law 1989 was passed in June 1989 to regulate churches. By requiring certification of all Christian religious organizations operating in Ghana, the government reserved the right to inspect the functioning of these bodies and to order the auditing of their financial statements. The Ghana Council of Churches interpreted the Religious Bodies Law as contradicting the concept of religious freedom in the country. According to a government statement, however, the law was designed to protect the freedom and integrity of genuine religious organizations by exposing and eliminating groups established to take advantage of believers. The PNDC. repealed the law in late 1992. Despite its provisions, all orthodox Christian denominations and many spiritual churches continued to operate in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24295701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24295701", "title": "Religion in Latin America", "text": "Religion in Latin America\n\nReligion in Latin America is characterized by the historical predominance of Catholic Christianity, increasing Protestant influence, as well as by the presence of other world religions. According to survey data from 2014, 69% of the Latin American population is Catholic and 17% is Protestant, rising to 26% in Brazil and over 44% in much of Central America.\n\nThe majority of Latin Americans are Christians (90%), mostly Roman Catholics. Membership in Protestant denominations is increasing, particularly in Brazil, Guatemala, El Salvador and Puerto Rico. Anglicanism also has a long and growing presence in Latin America\n\nAccording to the detailed Pew multi-country survey in 2014, 69% of the Latin American population is Catholic and 19% is Protestant, rising to 26% in Brazil and over 40% in much of Central America. More than half of these are converts.\n\nIndigenous creeds and rituals are still practiced in countries with large percentages of Amerindians, such as Bolivia, Guatemala, Mexico, and Peru. Various Afro-Latin American traditions such as Santería, Candomblé, Umbanda, Macumba, and tribal-voodoo religions are also practiced, mainly in Cuba, Brazil, and Haiti.\n\nArgentina hosts the largest communities of both Jews (180,000-300,000) and Muslims (400,000-500,000) in Latin America.\nBrazil is the country with more practitioners in the world of Allan Kardec's Spiritism. Practitioners of the Judaism, Mormonism, Jehovah's Witnesses, Buddhist, Islamic, Hinduism, Bahá'í Faith, and Shinto denominations and religions also exercised in Latin America.\n\nReligious affiliation in Latin America according to the CID-Gallup 2010:\n\nReligious affiliation in Latin America according to the CID-Gallup 2000 :\n\nReligious affiliation in Latin America according to the CID-Gallup 1990 :\n\n"}
{"id": "277257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277257", "title": "School prayer", "text": "School prayer\n\nSchool prayer, in the context of religious liberty, is state-sanctioned or mandatory prayer by students in public schools. Depending on the country and the type of school, state-sponsored prayer may be required, permitted, or prohibited. Countries which prohibit or limit school prayer often differ in their reasons for doing so: In the United States, school prayer cannot be required of students in accordance with the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. In Canada, school-sponsored prayer is disallowed under the concept of Freedom of conscience as outlined in the Canadian Charter on Rights & Fundamental Freedoms. School-sponsored prayer is disallowed in France as a byproduct of its status as a laïcist (religiously neutral) nation. Countries that allow or require school and other state-sponsored prayer include Greece, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Australia, Italy and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the United States, public schools are banned from conducting religious observances such as prayer. The legal basis for this prohibition is the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, which requires that\nCongress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof...\n\nThe first part of the amendment (\"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion\") is known as the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, while the second part (\"or prohibiting the free exercise thereof\") is known as the Free Exercise Clause.\n\nThough each of these clauses originally applied only to the central US government, the Fourteenth Amendment extended the scope of the entire First Amendment to all levels of government, including the state level, thus compelling states and their subject schools to adopt an equally detached approach to religion in schools.\n\nIn the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries, it was common practice for public schools to open with an oral prayer or Bible reading. Catholics would sometimes object to the distinct Protestant observations performed in the local schools. For instance, in the Edgerton Bible Case (\"Weiss v. District Board\" (1890)), the Wisconsin Supreme Court ruled in favor of Catholics who objected to the use of the King James Bible in Wisconsin public schools. This ruling was based on the state constitution and only applied in Wisconsin.\n\nThe media and popular culture often erroneously credit atheist Madalyn Murray O'Hair with removing school prayer from US public schools, when the case against recitation of the Lord's Prayer in Baltimore schools was decided by the Supreme Court in 1963. A more significant case had reached the Supreme Court one year prior, suddenly changing the legal climate for school prayer in the US.\n\nIn 1955, the New York Board of Regents developed a prayer recommended (but not required) for the school districts under its purview. The prayer was relatively short: \"Almighty God, we acknowledge our dependence on Thee, and we beg Thy blessings upon us, our parents, our teachers, and our country.\" The board stated that the prayer would \"combat juvenile delinquency and counter the spread of Communism.\"\n\nSeven years later, Steven I. Engel, a Jew, was upset to see his son’s hands clasped and his head bent in prayer. He told his son that this was “not the way we say prayers.” Engel, a founding member of the New York Civil Liberties Union, brought action along with Daniel Lichtenstein, Monroe Lerner, Lenore Lyons, and Lawrence Roth, all parents of children in the Long Island, New York public school system, against Union Free School District No. 9 for its adoption and subsequent prescription of the so-called \"Regent's prayer\", arguing that it constituted the state-sponsored establishment of religion in violation of citizens’ First Amendment rights via the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nUse of the Regent's prayer was initially upheld in both New York State Court and in the New York Court of Appeals, prompting Engels to petition the US Supreme Court in the \"Engel v. Vitale\" case in 1962. With its 8–1 vote to make public recitation of the Regents' Prayer in public schools unlawful, the U.S. Supreme Court made its first-ever decision on prayer in public schools. It made its second in 1963—the \"Abington School District v. Schempp\" ruling, which made the corporate reading of the Bible and recitation of the Lord's Prayer unlawful in public schools.\n\nIn these two landmark decisions, \"Engel v. Vitale\" (1962) and \"Abington School District v. Schempp\" (1963), the Supreme Court established what is now the current prohibition on state-sponsored prayer in US schools. While the \"Engel\" decision held that the promulgation of an official state-school prayer stood in violation of the First Amendment’s Establishment Clause (thus overruling the New York Courts’ decisions), \"Abington\" held that Bible readings and other public school-sponsored religious activities were prohibited. Madalyn Murray's lawsuit, \"Murray v. Curlett\", contributed to the removal of compulsory Bible reading from the public schools of the United States, and has had lasting and significant effects.\n\nUntil the lawsuit, it was commonplace for students to participate in many types of religious activities while at school, including religious instruction itself. Nonreligious students were compelled to participate in such activities and were not usually given any opportunity to opt out. The Murray suit was combined with an earlier case, so the Court might have acted without Murray's intervention. With the success of the lawsuit, the intent of the Constitution with regard to the relationship between church and state again came under critical scrutiny and has remained there to this day. While students do continue to pray in public schools, even in organized groups such as \"See You at the Pole\", the lawsuit disallowed schools from including prayer as a compulsory activity required of every student. The success of O'Hair's lawsuit led to subsequent lawsuits by Mormon and Catholic families in Texas in 2000 to limit compulsory prayer at school-sponsored football games.\n\nFollowing these two cases came the Court's decision in \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\" (1971), a ruling that established the Lemon test for religious activities within schools. The Lemon test states that, in order to be constitutional under the Establishment Clause, any practice sponsored within state-run schools (or other public state-sponsored activities) must adhere to the following three criteria:\n\n\nReactions to \"Engel\" and \"Abington\" were widely negative, and many school districts and states have attempted to reestablish school-sponsored prayer in different forms since 1962. Since the 1990s, controversy in the courts has tended to revolve around prayer at school-sponsored extracurricular activities. Examples can be seen in the cases of \"Lee v. Weisman\" (1992) and \"Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. Doe\" (2000), where public prayers at graduation ceremonies and those conducted via public address system prior to high school games (at state school facilities before a school-gathered audience) were, respectively, ruled unconstitutional.\n\nDespite their attempts to present a clear stance on school-sponsored religious activity, \"Engel\", \"Abington\", and the cases for which these serve as precedent are cited by some proponents of school prayer as evidence of a contradiction between the Establishment and Free Exercise Clauses. While the Establishment Clause proscribes the state sponsorship of religion, the Free Exercise Clause forbids state interference in individual religious exercise. Where a state entity moves to accommodate the right to individual religious expression under the latter clause, opponents of that \"expression\" may cite such accommodation as state \"promotion\" of one religious activity over another. Regarding the Free Exercise Clause, the courts have consistently stated that students' setting forth of religious views through prayer cannot be forbidden unless such activity can be shown to cause disruption in the school, yet it remains beyond the scope of the state to require such practice. Thus, anyone is allowed to pray in schools in the United States, as long as it is not officially sponsored by the school and it does not disrupt others from doing their work.\n\n\"The United States Supreme Court: A Political and Legal Analysis\" discussed the results of a 1991 survey, stating that: \"The Court's school prayer decisions were, and still are, deeply unpopular with the public, many politicians and most religions organizations. 95 percent of the population believe in God and some 60 percent belong to a religious organization. In a 1991 opinion poll, 78 percent of Americans support the reintroduction of school prayer.\" As a result of public support for school prayer in the United States, \"The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States\" reports, \"the public's support for school prayer was translated by various state legislatures into statutes aiding religious schools and practices.\" Analysis of multiple polls since the 1970s by sociologist Philip Schwadel showed support for school prayer dipped slightly but remains popular with the majority of Americans, with a recent 2011 poll showing 65 percent support.\n\nQuestions regarding whether prayer should be present or absent in the United States public school system have been causing controversy for decades due to the need to allow religious freedom and guarantee the rights of the first amendment in the United States constitution. Although the topic has many opponents as well as those who are indifferent to the issue, a 2014 Gallup poll indicates that the majority of Americans, 61%, are in favor of daily prayer in the classroom and 37% oppose daily worship Results show that those who attend church on a regular basis are 33% more likely to support prayer in schools than those who rarely attend church (82% and 49%, respectively). In addition, political ideology also plays a role in determining attitudes towards prayer in schools. Those who identify as Republican are more inclined to support daily prayer than Democrats and Independents, as 80% of Republicans, 64% of Independents, and 45% of Democrats are in favor. Studies show that these numbers have been steadily dropping since 2001, but the majority of Americans continue to support having religion in the education system.\n\nPrior to 1944, in British Columbia, the \"Public Schools Act\" (1872) permitted the use of the Lord’s Prayer in opening or closing school. In 1944, the government of British Columbia amended the \"Public Schools Act\" to provide for compulsory Bible reading at the opening of the school day, to be followed by a compulsory recitation of the Lord’s Prayer. This amendment appeared as section 167 of the \"Public Schools Act\", and read as follows:\n\n167. All public schools shall be opened by the reading, without explanation or comment, of a passage of Scripture to be selected from readings prescribed or approved by the Council of Public Instruction. The reading of the passage of Scripture shall be followed by the recitation of the Lord’s Prayer, but otherwise the schools shall be conducted on strictly secular and non-sectarian principles. The highest morality shall be inculcated, but no religious dogma or creed shall be taught. 1948, c.42, s.167\n\nThe compulsory nature of the Bible reading and prayer recitation was slightly modified by regulations drawn up by the Council of Public Instruction. These regulations provided that either a teacher or student who has conscientious ground for objecting to the religious observances may be excused from them. The procedure to be followed in such cases was outlined in the regulations, which follow in full:Division (15)—Scripture Readings (Section 167)\n15.01 Where a teacher sends a written notice to the Board of School Trustees or official trustee by whom he is employed that he has conscientious objections to conducting the. ceremony of reading prescribed selections from the Bible and reciting the Lord’s Prayer (as provided by Section 167 of the Public Schools Act), he shall be excused from such duty, and in such case it shall be the duty of the Board of School Trustees or official trustee concerned to arrange with the Principal to have the ceremony conducted by some other teacher in the school, or by a school trustee, or, where neither of these alternatives is possible, by one of the senior pupils of the school or by some other suitable person other than an ordained member of a religious sect or denomination.\n\n15.02 Where the parent or guardian of any pupil attending a public school sends a written notice to the teacher of the pupil stating that for conscientious reasons he does not wish the pupil to attend the ceremony of reading prescribed selections from the Bible and reciting the Lord’s Prayer at the opening of school, the teacher shall excuse the pupil from attendance at such ceremony and at his discretion may assign the pupil some other useful employment at school during that period, but the pupil so excused shall not be deprived of any other benefits of the school by reason of his non-attendance at the ceremony.\n\nIn 1982, the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms received royal assent. Section 2 of the charter guaranteeing freedom of conscience and freedom of religion trumped Section 167 of the \"Public Schools Act\" (1872). Sixteen years later in 1996, based on precedent that would be established in Ontario (1989), required recitation of the Lord’s Prayer as outlined in the \"Public Schools Act\" would be held to violate the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.\n\nThe challenges to Christian opening and closing exercises occurred mainly in Ontario with the crucial case being fought in The Ontario Court of Appeal in 1988.\n\nZylberberg v. Sudbury Board of Education (Director) The Ontario Court of Appeal ruled that the use of the Lord’s Prayer in opening exercises in public schools offended the Charter s. 2(a). 1988. (1988), 65 O.R. (2d) 641, 29 O.A.C. 23 (C.A.). Education regulations did not require the use of the Lord's Prayer and there was an exemption provision. The Ontario Court of Appeal ruled that the regulation infringed religious freedom because schools could use only the Lord's Prayer rather than a more inclusive approach. It was argued that the exemption provision effectively stigmatized children and coerced them into a religious observance which was offensive to them.\n\nThe Ontario Court of Appeal was persuaded by the argument that the need to seek exemption from Christian exercises is itself a form of religious discrimination. The judges described as insensitive the position of the respondents that it was beneficial for the minority children to confront the fact of their difference from the majority.\n\nIn 1989, Joan Russow challenged, in the British Columbia Supreme Court, the \"Public Schools Act’s\" requirement that in British Columbia all public schools were to be opened with the Lord’s Prayer and a Bible reading. The argument was similar to the \"Zylberberg\" case and the result was the same: The offending words in the \"Public Schools Act\" were removed as being inconsistent with freedom of conscience and religion guarantees in the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Further following the \"Zylberberg\" case to strike down use of the Lord’s Prayer in schools, the British Columbia Supreme Court incorporated the Ontario Court of Appeal's decision in \"Zylberberg\" in its entirety.\n\nFrom 1871 to 1989, observance of school prayer had declined.\n\nWith the unfavorable court decision, the requirement for Christian morning exercises was replaced with the following clauses found in the \"School Act\" (1996) in British Columbia.\nConduct:\n76 (1) All schools and Provincial schools must be conducted on strictly secular and nonsectarian principles.\n(2) The highest morality must be inculcated, but no religious dogma or creed is to be – taught in a school or Provincial school.\n\nAs a secular state (laïcité), France has no school prayers. Instead, public servants are advised to keep their religious faith private, and may be censured if they display it too openly. The French law on secularity and conspicuous religious symbols in schools goes beyond restricting prayer in schools and bans the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols by pupils in public primary and secondary schools.\n\nThe predominantly Muslim country of Turkey is in the public sphere a strongly secular nation. In this regard, it is much like France, on whose system of laïcism its founder Mustafa Kemal Atatürk modelled the rules on religion when he reformed his country in the early 20th century. School prayer is therefore unknown, and suspected religious motivations can cause serious difficulties for public servants. Despite its primarily secular stance, however, courses of religion and morals (which are dominantly Islamic) are compulsory to all students during the last years of elementary and throughout high school. In these instances, various Islamic prayers and verses are both taught and tested for.\n\nIn England and Wales, the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 states that all pupils in state schools must take part in a daily act of collective worship, unless their parents request that they be excused from attending. The majority of these acts of collective worship are required to be \"wholly or mainly of a broadly Christian character\", with two exceptions:\n\nDespite this statutory requirement for schools to hold a daily act of collective worship, most do not. Ofsted's 2002-03 annual report, for example, stated that 80% of secondary schools were not providing daily worship for all pupils.\n\nThe Department of Education in England states that all schools must maintain religious prayer in schools in order to reflect the beliefs and traditions of the country, which is predominantly of the Christian faith. However, a recent BBC radio study shows that 64% of children (out of 500) do not attend or participate in daily acts of worship or prayer. Regarding public opinion in the United Kingdom for mandated school prayer, the numbers are relatively similar. In fact, a 2011 survey conducted by BBC found that 60% of parents (out of the 1,743 questioned) believed that the legislation that requires group worship should not be enforced at all. Although parents do retain the right to officially keep their children from taking part in daily worship, there are critics who claim the legislation should be changed or discarded completely in order to allow for religious freedom and cater to the wants of parents, children, and staff.\n\nThe issue of school prayer remains contentious even where courts as diverse as those in Canada, the United States, Russia, and Poland attempt to strike a balance between religious and secular activity in state-sponsored arenas. Some arguments have held that religion in schools is both an effective sociomoral tool as well as a valuable means to psychological stability. On the opposing side, others have argued that prayer has no place in a classroom where impressionable students are continually subject to influence by the majority. The latter view holds that, to the extent that a public school itself promotes the majority religion, the state is guilty of coercive interference in the lives of the individual.\n\nIn recent years yoga exercise has been introduced into some public schools in the U.S., despite modern yoga's historical roots as a Hindu religious practice. Advocates for the programs say they help children to relax and concentrate, but critics counter that the programs violate the separation of church and state.\n\nDespite ongoing debate, there are some instances where religious freedom and secular stability have been temporarily balanced. In the United States, some administrations have introduced a \"moment of silence\" or \"moment of reflection\" in which a student may, if he or she wishes to, offer a silent prayer. The US Supreme Court decision in \"Wallace v. Jaffree\" (1984) held that a moment of silence in schools for the purpose of individual prayer or meditation constituted a valid application of the Free Exercise Clause, while a moment of silence for the clear intended purpose of a state-approved devotional activity constituted a violation of the Establishment Clause. In this same case, the issue of school prayer was further complicated by a distinction made between a public assembly attended by participants of their own free will, and a public event where attendance is legally required. A voluntarily attended Congress may open sessions with a prayer, but schools full of public pupils may not. Here the US Supreme Court has interpreted the issue as revolving around the degree of a government’s ability to indoctrinate its citizens. If it appears that participants at a state-sponsored event are more likely to influence the State itself, courts may treat prayer as \"legislative prayer\". If, on the other hand, the State is more likely to influence participants at its events, courts may treat prayer as \"state-sponsored\" prayer and thereby rule it unconstitutional.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107305", "title": "Scientology and sexual orientation", "text": "Scientology and sexual orientation\n\nScientology and its perspectives on sexual orientation are based on the writings of L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of the Church of Scientology. His statements about homosexuality have led critics to assert that Scientology promotes homophobia, though these allegations are disputed by some Scientologists.\n\nIn 1950 Hubbard published \"\", introducing his \"science of the mind,\" Dianetics. He classified homosexuality as an illness or sexual perversion, citing contemporary psychiatric and psychological textbooks to support his view:\nHubbard further defined perversion in his 1951 book \"Science of Survival: Prediction of Human Behavior\", where he introduced the concept of the \"tone scale\", a means of classifying individuals and human behavior on a chart running from +40 (the most beneficial) to -40 (the least beneficial). Sexual perversion, a category in which he included homosexuality, was termed \"covert hostility\" and given a score of 1.1, \"the level of the pervert, the hypocrite, the turncoat, ...the subversive.\" He considered such people to be \"skulking coward[s] who yet contain enough perfidious energy to strike back, but not enough courage ever to give warning.\"\n\nHe characterized \"promiscuity, perversion, sadism, and irregular practices\" as well as \"free love, easy marriage and quick divorce\" as being undesirable activities, \"since it is non-survival not to have a well ordered system for the creation and upbringing of children, by families.\" Such \"sexual perverts\" engaged in \"irregular practices which do anything but tend toward the creation of children\" and \"efforts [which] tend not towards enjoyment but toward the pollution and derangement of sex itself so as to make it as repulsive as possible to others and so to inhibit procreation.\"\n\nHubbard's 1951 book \"Handbook for Preclears\" likewise classified homosexuality as \"about 1.1 (covert hostility) on the tone scale\", along with \"general promiscuity\". He set out what he saw as the cause of homosexuality: a mental \"aberration\", with the result that \"an individual aberrated enough about sex will do strange things to be a cause or an effect. He will substitute punishment for sex. He will pervert others. Homosexuality comes from this manifestation and from the manifestation of life continuation for others.\" The \"aberration\" was caused by a child trying to \"continue the life\" of a dominant parent of the opposite sex.\n\nHubbard's views on homosexuality were further explained in a 1972 book by Scientologist Ruth Minshull, \"How To Choose Your People\", which was published through the Church of Scientology, copyrighted to Hubbard, and given \"issue authority\" by the Scientology hierarchy. Scientology churches sold the book alongside the works of Hubbard until 1983. Minshull described the \"gentle-mannered homosexual\" as a classic example of the \"subversive\" 1.1 personality, commenting that they \"may be fearful, sympathetic, propitiative, griefy or apathetic. Occasionally they manage an ineffectual tantrum.\" Minshull claimed they were social misfits:\nHomosexuals had no redeeming \"social value,\" in Minshull's view. She cautioned that \"homosexuals should not be abused or ridiculed. But a society bent on survival must recognize any aberration as such and seek to raise people out of the low emotion that produces it.\"\n\nJon Atack notes that L. Ron Hubbard's son Quentin Hubbard was homosexual. According to Atack, L. Ron Hubbard had repeatedly announced that his son Quentin would succeed him after his death, but Quentin died of an apparent suicide in 1976.\n\nThere is some evidence that Hubbard's Dianetics movement sought to use Dianetics to \"cure\" homosexuality. In January 1951, the Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation of Elizabeth, NJ published \"Dianetic Processing: A Brief Survey of Research Projects and Preliminary Results\", a booklet providing the results of psychometric tests conducted on 88 people undergoing Dianetics therapy. It presents case histories and a number of X-ray plates to support claims that Dianetics had cured \"aberrations\" including bipolar disorder, asthma, arthritis, colitis, and \"overt homosexuality,\" and that after Dianetic processing, test subjects experienced significantly increased scores on a standardized IQ test.\n\nIn Hubbard's 1951 book \"Handbook for Preclears\", he set out instructions for Dianeticists to \"cure\" homosexuality. After claiming that the cause of homosexuality was a fixation on a dominant parent of the opposite sex, he advised, \"Break this life continuum concept by running sympathy and grief for the dominant parent and then run off the desires to be an effect and their failures and the homosexual is rehabilitated.\"\n\nHubbard urged society to tackle the issue of \"sexual perversion\" (including homosexuality), calling it \"of vital importance, if one wishes to stop immorality, and the abuse of children.\" In \"Science of Survival\", he called for drastic action to be taken against sexual perverts, whom he rated as \"1.1 individuals\":\nIn later years, Hubbard sought to distance himself from efforts to regulate the sexual affairs of lay Scientologists. In a 1967 policy letter, he declared: \"It has never been any part of my plans to regulate or to attempt to regulate the private lives of individuals. Whenever this has occurred, it has not resulted in any improved condition...Therefore all former rules, regulations and policies relating to the sexual activities of Scientologists are cancelled.\" Members of the Sea Org remained under strict rules according to a 1978 order.\n\nAlthough Hubbard's views on homosexuality remain unamended in modern editions of Scientology books, gay Scientologists have argued that Hubbard and the Church have set aside any anti-homosexual views expressed in the past. In 2003, in the city of Los Angeles, the Church of Scientology sponsored a Multathlon for Human Rights and Tolerance. Keith Relkin, a gay activist and Scientologist, turned over a rainbow flag to the team captain who was running 250 miles through the metropolis. The American Church of Scientology published a press release on its website quoting gay activist Keith Relkin as saying, \"Over the years I have worked with the Church of Scientology for greater inclusion of gay people like me, and today represents a milestone in that progress.\" Paul Haggis, a Hollywood screenwriter and director, publicly left Scientology in October 2009, claiming that the San Diego branch of the Church of Scientology gave its support to California Proposition 8, which sought to ban same-sex marriage. Haggis wrote to Tommy Davis, the Church's spokesman, and requested that he denounce their support for Prop 8. However, the Church disputes this, with Davis stating, \"Church of Scientology San Diego had been put on a list of churches that supported Proposition 8 out in California. It was incorrectly included and named when it should have never been on the list to begin with.\" Davis also stated that the inclusion of the San Diego branch on the list supporting Prop. 8 was the work of a single employee, who was removed from his post and the Church's name taken off the list.\n\nA 2004 article in the \"St. Petersburg Times\" reported that the Church defines marriage as the union between a man and a woman.\n\nMelissa M. Wilcox, notes in \"Introduction to New and Alternative Religions in America\" that while present-day detractors of Scientology accuse it of homophobia, government suspicion in the early days of Scientology apparently included accusations of homosexuality. In response to a query by her about the Church's current position, the Church of Scientology in 2005 stated:\nAn official Scientology website states, \"The second dynamic is the urge toward existence as a future generation. It has two compartments: sex; and the family unit, including the rearing of children. A culture will go by the boards if its basic building block, the family, is removed as a valid building block. So one can be fairly sure that he who destroys marriage destroys the civilization.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20776887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20776887", "title": "Shaktyavesha Avatar", "text": "Shaktyavesha Avatar\n\nShaktyavesh Avatar (Devanagari: , IAST: \"\") is a type of incarnation, Avatar of God as per Hinduism. \"Whenever the Lord is present in someone by portions of His various potencies, the living entity representing the Lord is called a śaktyāveśa-avatāra — that is, an incarnation invested with special power.\"\nUnlike other avatars which are expansions (amsas) or expansions of expansions (amsaamsa) of the Lord Himself, a Shaktyavesha avatar is when the Lord empowers a living entity (jiva) with the potency of God Himself.\n\nShakti means Power; Avesha means endowed; Avatar means one who descends from the spiritual realm, incarnation. So a Sakthiavesha avatar means a Spiritual person who is empowered (temporarily) by the God to do a specific task. Parasurama Avatar of Lord Vishnu is one of the most famous Sakthiavesha Avatar. He was specifically empowered to destroy rogues, demons and evils. He was empowered by the \"duṣṭa-damana-śakti\" - the power to destroy great evils of Lord Vishnu. Sakthiavesha Avatar usually happens when the world, especially nature (Prakriti) or righteousness (Dharmma) is in great peril due to the menace of large number of relatively less powerful demonic entity's, be it human or non-human. When extremely powerful evil wreak havoc on world, God himself will appear or appear in his Purna Avatar form to crush it.\n\nThe following description of the various types of avatars is given in the ancient Garga Samhita.\nIt is stated in the Śrī Caitanya Caritāmṛta Madhya 20.246\nand also in that same chapter it is stated:\n\n"}
{"id": "22543534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22543534", "title": "Silence Day", "text": "Silence Day\n\nSilence Day is the name the followers of Indian spiritual master Meher Baba give to their practice of commemorating July 10 of each year by maintaining verbal silence for twenty-four hours.\n\nFrom July 10, 1925 until his death in 1969, Meher Baba was silent. He communicated first by using an alphabet board, and later by hand gestures which were interpreted and spoken out by one of his \"mandali\" (devoted disciples), usually by his disciple Eruch Jessawala. For many years, Baba asked his followers to undertake various austerities on this date. In addition to keeping silence, Baba sometimes asked his followers to fast, to pray, to repeat the names of God, and similar practices. In his last request to his followers on the subject, in 1968, he asked only that they observe silence. \n\nWhile Meher Baba did not establish any ongoing requirement, even after his death the majority of his followers voluntarily keep silent on July 10. \n\nAbout his silence Meher Baba wrote, \nMan’s inability to live God’s words makes the Avatar’s teaching a mockery. Instead of practicing the compassion he taught, man has waged wars in his name. Instead of living the humility, purity, and truth of his words, man has given way to hatred, greed, and violence. Because man has been deaf to the principles and precepts laid down by God in the past, in this present Avataric form, I observe silence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1789049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1789049", "title": "Tattva vision", "text": "Tattva vision\n\nTattva vision is a technique developed by the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn to aid with the development of the faculty of astral clairvoyance. They were probably derived from the elements, or Tattva [also known as Tattwas], of the Samkhya version of Hindu Philosophy.\n\nThe astral forms of the \"tattvas\" and equivalent in Western elements:\n\nAkasha - Spirit\n\nblack or indigo \"vesica piscis\" or egg\n\nTejas - Fire\n\nred equilateral triangle\n\nVayu - Air \nblue circle\n\nApas - Water\n\npurple half circle / silver crescent\n\nPrithivi - Earth\n\nyellow square\n\n\"Tattva cards\" can be constructed by cutting the tattva symbols out of coloured paper or card, and pasting on to small cards of about 6 inches by 6 inches in size. Alternatively the tattva symbols may be painted onto the cards, or a commercial set of cards may be obtained.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50225267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50225267", "title": "The Aleppo Codex", "text": "The Aleppo Codex\n\nThe Aleppo Codex: A True Story of Obsession, Faith, and the Pursuit of an Ancient Bible is a 2012 book by Matti Friedman published by Algonquin. \n\nThe book tells the story of how the Aleppo codex, one of the world's oldest extant Bibles , was saved from destruction during the 1947 Aleppo pogrom, how it was smuggled into Israel, and what became of the missing pages. The \"Wall Street Journal\" calls Friedman's book \"a detective thriller,\" noting that, \"not everything about the codex is as it seems.\"\n\n\"The Aleppo Codex\" won the 2014 Sami Rohr Prize for Jewish Literature, was selected as one of Booklist's top ten religion and spirituality books of 2012, was awarded the American Library Association's 2013 Sophie Brody Medal and the 2013 Canadian Jewish Book Award for history, and received second place for the Religion Newswriters Association's 2013 nonfiction religion book of the year.\n"}
{"id": "33416305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416305", "title": "The Golden Bough (mythology)", "text": "The Golden Bough (mythology)\n\nThe Golden Bough is one of the episodic tales written in the epic \"Aeneid\", book VI, by the Roman poet Virgil (70–19 BC), which narrates the adventures of the Trojan hero Aeneas after the Trojan War.\n\nWhile Troy was being destroyed in its last battle against the Greeks, Aeneas left the city and led a quest to find a new and Hesperian home. In this mission, guided by the prophet Helenus, Aeneas arrived in Italy where he intended to found a city for his people. Once there, Deiphobe, the Sibyl of Cumae, then an old woman over seven hundred years old, at the Temple of Apollo, consented to escort him on a journey into the underworld to comply with his wish to see the \"shade\" of his deceased father.\n\nBefore entering the underworld, Deiphobe told Aeneas he must obtain the bough of gold which grew nearby in the woods around her cave, and must be given as a gift to Proserpina, the queen of Pluto, king of the underworld. In the woods, Aeneas's mother, the goddess Venus, sent two doves to aid him in this difficult task, and these helped him to find the tree. When Aeneas tore off the bough, a second golden one immediately sprang up, which was a good omen, as the sibyl had said that if this did not happen the coming endeavor would fail.\n\nSoon after they started their descent into the Underworld, the Sibyl showed the golden bough to Charon who only then allowed them to enter his boat and cross the Stygian river. On the other side, she cast a drugged cake to the three-headed watchdog Cerberus, who swallowed it and fell asleep. Once in the Underworld, Aeneas tried talking to some shades, and listened to the Sibyl speak of places, like Tartarus, where he saw a large prison, fenced by a triple wall, with wicked men being punished, and bordered by the fiery river Phlegethon. At Pluto’s palace, Aeneas put the golden bough on the arched door, and went through to the Elysian Fields, the abode of those who led just and useful lives.\n\nAnchises, the father of Aeneas, was finally located in the green and sunny Elysium, where the beautiful river Eridanus flows. Aeneas attempted three times to hug his father, but had no success as his father's shade was like thin air, or empty dreams.\n\nIn spite of this, they had a happy encounter and Anchises told his son about the nearby river Lethe, the river of forgetfulness, on the other side of which were a multitude of spirits waiting to be born on Earth. Over there were those who would be the descendants of Aeneas, and those who would live in the future Roman Empire, such as Romulus, Camillus, Marcellus, and the Caesars. Anchises gave advice to Aeneas, and then led him to the ivory gate, one of the gates of \"Sleep\", by which they return to Earth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8418879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8418879", "title": "Western use of the swastika in the early 20th century", "text": "Western use of the swastika in the early 20th century\n\nThe swastika (from Sanskrit svástika) is an ancient Indo-European religious symbol that generally takes the form of an equilateral cross, with its four arms bent at 90 degrees in either right-facing (卐) form or its mirrored left-facing (卍) form. The Swastika (also known outside the Indian subcontinent as the Hakenkreuz, gammadion cross, cross cramponnée, croix gammée, fylfot, or tetraskelion) (as a character 卐 or 卍) is an ancient Indo-European religious symbol originating from the Ukraine, that generally takes the form of an equilateral cross with four legs each bent at 90 degrees. It is considered to be a sacred and auspicious symbol in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism and dates back at least 11,000 years.\n\nArchaeological evidence of swastika-shaped ornaments dates from the Neolithic period and was first found in the Mezine, Ukraine. \n\nThe swastika (gammadion, \"fylfot\") symbol became a popular symbol of luck in the Western world in the early 20th century, as it had long been in Asia, and was often used for ornamentation. The Nazi Party adopted the symbol in the 1920s, and its use in Western countries faded after the Nazi association became dominant in the 1930s. In recent decades many public swastikas have been removed or covered over, although others have been deliberately retained as part of debate about historical preservation.\n\nThe discovery of the Indo-European language group in the 1790s led to a great effort by European archaeologists to link the pre-history of European people to the hypothesised ancient \"Aryans\" (variously referring to the Indo-Iranians or the Proto-Indo-Europeans).\nFollowing his discovery of objects bearing the swastika square in the ruins of Troy, Heinrich Schliemann consulted two leading Sanskrit scholars of the day, Emile Burnouf and Max Müller. Schliemann concluded that the Swastika square was a specifically Indo-European symbol, and associated it with the ancient migrations of Proto-Indo-Europeans. He connected it with similar shapes found on ancient pots in Germany, and theorised that the swastika square was a \"significant religious symbol of our remote ancestors\", linking Germanic, Greek and Indo-Iranian cultures. Later discoveries of the motif among the remains of the Hittites and of ancient Iran seemed to confirm this theory, but the symbol was also known for its use by indigenous American Indians as well as Eastern cultures.\n\nBy the early 20th century it was used worldwide and was regarded as a symbol of good luck. The swastika's worldwide use was well documented in an 1894 publication by the Smithsonian. The symbol appeared in many popular, non-political Western designs from the 1880s to the 1920s, with occasional use continuing into the 1930s.\n\nWestern use of the motif was subverted in the early 20th century after it was adopted as the emblem of the Nazi Party (). The swastika was used as a conveniently geometrical and eye-catching symbol to emphasise the so-called Aryan-German correspondence and instill racial pride. Since World War II, most Westerners have known the swastika as a Nazi symbol, leading to confusion about its sacred religious and historical status.\n\nSeveral columns at the train station of Retiro in Buenos Aires are decorated with joint swastikas. The Estación Retiro opened in 1915.\n\nSydney has two notable buildings using the swastika as an architectural element. The 1920s-era Dymocks Building in George Street, Sydney includes a multi-level shopping arcade, the tiled floors of which incorporate numerous left-facing swastikas. A brass explanatory sign, probably dating to World War II, is affixed to the wall near the elevator doors on each floor of the building, and refers to it as a \"fylfot\", emphasising that its use in the building pre-dates any Nazi connotations or usage. In nearby Circular Quay, the Customs House also has fylfot tiles in the front entrance area dating from the same period, with a plaque to explain the symbols.\n\nThe Anglo-Indian author Rudyard Kipling (1865–1936), who was strongly influenced by Indian culture, used a swastika as his personal emblem on the covers and flyleaves of many editions of his books, along with the elephant, signifying his affinity with India. With the rise of Nazism, Kipling ceased to use the swastika. One of his \"Just So Stories\", \"The Crab That Played With The Sea\", included an elaborate full-page illustration by Kipling including a stone bearing what was called \"a magic mark\" (a swastika); some later editions of the stories blotted out the mark on the stone, but left the caption unaltered, leaving readers puzzled.\nDuring the First World War, the swastika was used as the emblem of the British National War Savings Committee.\n\nThe swastika was also used as a symbol by the Boy Scouts in Britain, and worldwide. According to \"Johnny\" Walker, the earliest Scouting use was on the first Thanks Badge introduced in 1911. Robert Baden-Powell's 1922 Medal of Merit design added a swastika to the Scouting fleur-de-lis as a token of good luck for the person receiving the medal. Like Kipling, Baden-Powell would have come across this symbol in India. During 1934 many Scouters requested a change of design because of the use of the swastika by the Nazis. A new British Medal of Merit was issued in 1935.\n\nA bank in Bolton has refused to remove swastika mosaic tiles from the entry of a branch office constructed in 1927. A bank spokesperson replied to critics noting that \"At that time, these symbols were commonly used as architectural decoration.\"\n\nLocated on the Woodhouse Crag, on the northern edge of Ilkley Moor in West Yorkshire there is a swastika-shaped pattern engraved in a stone, known as the Swastika Stone. The figure in the foreground of the picture is a 20th-century replica; the original carving can be seen a little further away, at the centre-left of the picture.\n\nThere are both left- and right-facing swastikas on the war memorial at the entrance to Balmoral Castle in Scotland.\n\nThe druids in the mid-1920s adorned their dress with swastikas.\n\nThere is a Fylfot made into the brickwork on a building inside the British Aerospace factory in Broughton in Wales. It is unknown why the Fylfot was put on a brick but it has been suggested it was done so because it was an ancient Asian peace symbol. The current Broughton site which makes wings for the Airbus has a history of fighter plane construction going back to WWI.\n\nThe Royal Air Force's 273 Squadron adopted a cruciform fylfot as opposed to the Nazi Swastika which was a reversed fylfot, which it used as a squadron badge. It was around since the earliest RAF in 1918 and was an emblem for the Ceylon Fighter Defence in 1939.\n\nThe Essex County Council headquarters in Chelmsford features engraved swastika facing both left and right. Constructed beginning in 1928, the building was finished in 1939, the same year Britain declared war on Nazi Germany. The architectural design had been finalized years before.\nMany churches and cathedrals in the UK feature swastika motifs.\n\nSwastika is the name of a small residential community in northern Ontario, Canada, approximately 580 kilometres north of Toronto, and 5 kilometres west of Kirkland Lake, the town of which it is now part. The town of Swastika was founded in 1906. Gold was discovered nearby and the Swastika Mining Company was formed in 1908. The government of Ontario attempted to change the town's name during World War II, but the town resisted and many posted signs \"The hell with Hitler. We came up with our name first!\". The Swastika United Church is located in Swastika, Ontario, as is the Swastika Public School, Swastika Fire Hall and Swastika Laboratories, which provides assaying services for the mining industry.\n\nIn Windsor, Nova Scotia, there was the Windsor Swastikas ice hockey team from 1905 to 1916, and their uniforms featured swastika symbols. There were also hockey teams named the Swastikas in Edmonton, Alberta (circa 1916), and the Fernie Swastikas in Fernie, British Columbia (circa 1922).\n\nThe Traveller's Hotel in downtown Ladysmith, British Columbia, has a façade decorated with brickwork swastikas. Further north on Vancouver Island, the Japanese cemetery in Cumberland has several grave markers decorated with swastikas.\n\nA repeating pattern of swastikas appeared on a few Canadian postage stamps that were produced by commercial airlines from 1924–32.\n\nThere used to be a swastika brick pattern located outside at the top of a house located at 75–81 Troy Street, in Verdun, a borough of Montreal, Quebec. A picture of this house appears on page 138 of Hélène-Andrée Bizier's Une Histoire du Québec en photos (2006, Éditions Fides).\n\nThe swastika was also used as border art for the weekly pet health column in the \"Calgary Herald\" newspaper in the early years of the 20th century.\n\nThe Danish brewery company Carlsberg Group used the swastika as a logo from the 19th century until the middle of the 1930s, when it was discontinued because of association with the Nazi Party in neighbouring Germany. However, the swastika carved on elephants at the entrance gates of the company's headquarters in Copenhagen in 1901 can still be seen today.\n\nIn Finland, the \"hakaristi\" (swastika) was used as the official national marking of the Finnish Defence Forces between 1918 and 1945 and also of the Finnish Air Force, anti-aircraft troops as a part of the air force and tank troops at that time. The swastika was also used by the Lotta Svärd organisation, Finnish paramilitary organisation for women, which was dissolved in 1944 according to the terms of the Moscow Armistice.\n\nFinnish heraldry does not distinguish between swastika and fylfot; they both are called \"hakaristi\" (\"hook-cross\"). Most \"hakaristi\" devices are actually fylfots.\n\nThe Finnish Airforce units still wear a swastika on their colours. In addition, the shoulder insignia of the Airforce Headquarters bears a swastika design. In 1945, the Air Force changed its national emblem to a roundel but the use of swastika in some other insignia was continued. In 1958, the President of Finland Urho Kekkonen inaugurated the colours of the Air Force units which feature a swastika design. The latest colour of this pattern was inaugurated by president Tarja Halonen 25 October 2005 for the newly formed Air Force Academy. Also the Utti Jaeger Regiment, responsible for training special forces, bears a swastika-like emblem (sun cross) on its colour.\n\nThe swastika has not disappeared in Finnish medals and decorations. The decorations of the Order of the Cross of Liberty, designed by Akseli Gallen-Kallela – who also designed the emblem of the Finnish Air Force and the Finnish flight mark in 1918 – bears a fylfot laid on a George's Cross. The President of Finland uses a Cross of Liberty in the personal flag. However, in the flag is only the Cross of Liberty of 3rd Class and overall, the highest Finnish decoration is the Grand Cross of the White Rose with Collar.\n\nThe Swastika saw use by nationalist movements before Nazis emerged into prominence: the Bundesarchiv has photos from the 1920 Kapp Putsch showing Marinebrigade Ehrhardt Freikorps using the symbol.\n\nEimskipafélag Íslands (founded in 1914), a major shipping company in Iceland, once used a variation on the swastika as their company logo. The appearance was similar to a blue fylfot on a white circle. Usage continued after World War II – in service from 1950 to 1972 had the symbol in a roundel on the ship's prow. Although they have since replaced their logo, the swastika remained on their old headquarters, located in downtown Reykjavík. When the Radisson SAS hotel franchise bought the building, the company was banned from destroying the symbol since the building was on the list of historical sites in Iceland. A compromise was made when the company was allowed to cover the symbol with the numbers 1919 which was the year when the building was erected.\n\nAncient swastikas are found sparingly throughout Ireland, starting in the 5th-7th centuries AD.\n\nIn Dublin, Ireland, a laundry company known as the \"Swastika Laundry\" existed for many years in Dartry and Ballsbridge (both on the river Dodder) on the south side of the city. It was founded in 1888 as the Dublin Laundry Company. Upon the outbreak of World War II\nin 1939, the company's customers were concerned about the company's name. Accordingly, it was changed to \"Swastika Laundry (1912) Ltd\". The company's fleet of electric delivery vans were red, and featured a black swastika on a white background.\n\nThe business started in the early 20th century and continued up until recent times. The Laundry's tall chimneystack was emblazoned with a large white Swastika, a protected structure, which was clearly visible from the surrounding streets. The name and logo eventually disappeared when the laundry was absorbed into the \"Spring Grove\" company.\n\nIn his \"Irisches Tagebuch\" (\"Irish Journal\"), the future Nobel Laureate, Heinrich Böll writes about a year spent living in the west of Ireland in the 1950s. While in Dublin before heading to Co. Mayo, he…\n\n\"was almost run over by a bright-red panel truck whose sole decoration was a big swastika. Had someone sold \"Völkischer Beobachter\" delivery trucks here, or did the \"Völkischer Beobachter\" still have a branch office here? This one looked exactly like those I remembered; but the driver crossed himself as he smilingly signalled to me to proceed, and on closer inspection I saw what had happened. It was simply the \"Swastika Laundry\", which had painted the year of its founding, 1912, clearly beneath the swastika; but the mere possibility that it might have been one of those others was enough to take my breath away.\"\n\nIn Latvia, too, the swastika (known as Fire Cross, , or Thunder Cross, ) was used as the marking of the Latvian Air Force between 1918 and 1934, as well as in insignias of some military units. It was also used as a symbol by the Latvian fascist movement Pērkonkrusts, as well as by other organisations.\n\nLatvian left-facing swastika or Thunder Cross dates back to Bronze Age. It is widely seen scratched on the surfaces like rocks, weapons and pottery as a protector sign. To avoid diplomatic embarrassment, Latvian officials were asked by NATO not to put swastikas on mittens and other gifts to delegates at a summit in the country in 2006.\n\nThe iron balconies of the building facing Veiten in Bergen are also decorated with swastikas. One may think they date back from the war, as they face the old Gestapo headquarters in Bergen, but they are actually twenty years older.\n\nSince the early Middle Ages the sign of the swastika was well established among all Slavic lands. Known as \"swarzyca\", it was primarily associated with one of the Slavic gods named Svarog.\n\nWith time the association with Slavic gods faded, but the swastika was preserved both as a personal symbol of various personalities, such as the Boreyko Coat of Arms, and in folk culture, for example, in the region of Podhale, where the swastika was used as a talisman well into the 20th century. As a solar symbol, it was painted or carved on various parts of houses in the Tatra Mountains and was thought to save the household from evil.\n\nThe ancient symbol used by the Góral societies was adopted by the Polish mountain infantry units in the 1920s.\nIt was adopted as a regimental insignia by the artillery units of the 21st and 22nd Infantry Divisions, as well as by the soldiers of the 4th Legions' Infantry, the 2nd and the 4th Podhale Rifles. A distinctive blue swastika was a background emblem of the Air defence and Anti-gas League (1928–1939, LOPP), which had circa 1.5 million members in 1937.\n\nOutside of the military traditions, the mountaineer's swastika also influenced a number of other symbols and logos used on Polish soil. Among such was the logo of the IGNIS publishing company (est. 1822), and the personal symbol of Mieczysław Karłowicz, a notable composer and admirer of the Tatras. After his death in the mountains in 1909, the place of his death was marked by a memorial stone and a swastika.\n\nThe Russian Provisional Government of 1917 printed a number of new bank notes with right-facing, diagonally rotated swastikas in their centres During the Russian Civil War, the Red Army's Kalmyk units wore distinct armbands featuring the swastika with \"RSFSR\" inscriptions on them.\n\nIn a painting of the Norse god Thor fighting jǫtnar, by the Swedish artist Mårten Eskil Winge from 1872, a swastika is clearly visible in his belt.\n\nThe Swedish company ASEA, now a part of Asea Brown Boveri, used the swastika in its logo from the 1890s to 1933, when it was removed from the logo.\n\nBecause this was a popular symbol with the Navajo people, the Arizona Department of Transportation marked its state highways with signs featuring a right-facing swastika superimposed on an arrowhead. In 1942, after the United States entered World War Two, the department replaced the signs.\n\nThe original Penobscot Building in Detroit, Michigan, completed about 1906, \"was named after the Penobscot Indian tribe and region of Maine, the boyhood home of one of the investors. An interesting feature in the Indian-themed detail of the building is the occasional appearance of a swastika, a symbol important to the Penobscots long before it was adopted by the Nazi party.\" The decorative symbols feature right-facing arms and are tilted in the same manner as the Nazi flag, leading to confusion over their origin.\n\nThe 45th Infantry Division of the United States Army used a yellow swastika on a red background as a unit symbol until the 1930s, when it was switched to a thunderbird. The American Division wore the swastika patch while fighting against Germany in World War I.\n\nThe Lafayette Escadrille squadron flew World War I fighters against Germany from 1916 to 1918, first as volunteers under French command and later as a United States unit. The official squadron insignia was a Native American with a swastika adorned headdress. Some of the squadron planes also bore a large swastika in addition to the squadron insignia.\n\nAmong the Lafayette Escadrille members who were killed in action was Arthur Bluethenthal of Wilmington, North Carolina, who is buried in a Jewish cemetery with a grave marker that includes the squadron insignia, complete with swastika.\n\nThe U.S. Army 12th Infantry Regiment coat of arms includes a number of historic symbols. A tepee with small, left facing swastikas represents the unit's campaigns in the Indian Wars of the late 19th century. The Regiment fought German forces during World War II, landing on D-Day at Utah Beach, through five European campaigns and received a Presidential Unit Citation for action during the Battle of the Bulge.\n\nSwastikas surround the exterior window iconography at the Marriner S. Eccles Federal Reserve Board Building in Washington D.C. on Constitution Avenue between 20th and 21st Streets. The building was designed by Paul Philippe Cret and completed in 1937. Cret fought against Germany during World War I while serving in the French army.\n\nThe Reno, Nevada Post Office features both left and right facing swastikas, along with other designs typical of \"Zig Zag Moderne\" style, later known as a variation of \"Art Deco\". It was designed in 1932 by Frederic Joseph DeLongchamps, who had previously served as the Nevada State Architect. The building was financed in part by the federal Civil Works Administration and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1990.\n\nThe Allentown, Pennsylvania Post Office, built in 1934, included inlaid swastika floor tiles. In 1965 The General Services Administration removed tiles with arms facing to the right, but retained some with arms facing to the left.\n\nThe six-story Federal Building in downtown Albuquerque, New Mexico features a Mediterranean style and decorative Native American design motifs. Built in 1930, its decorative features include\n\"Radiators set in each wall of the foyer [that] are hidden by brass grilles in a swastika design\". It has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places since 1980.\n\nThe third La Crosse County, Wisconsin courthouse was built in 1903 and razed in 1965. Numerous swastika patterns are visible in photographs of a mosaic tile floor. The symbols have shortened arms pointing to the left.\n\nThe DeKalb County Courthouse in Sycamore, Illinois, built in 1905, includes swastika decorated railings. The Classical Revival style courthouse was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1978.\n\nSwastikas are a minor feature in painted murals in the Allen County Courthouse in Fort Wayne, Indiana, completed in 1902. They are described as \"a Native American symbol for joy\". The murals were restored beginning in 1994 as part of an eight-year, $8.6 million project. The courthouse was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1976, and as a National Historic Landmark in 2003.\n\nMosaic swastika tile patterns decorate the floor of the Washington County Courthouse in Marietta, Ohio, designed by Cincinnati architect Samuel Hannaford and built in 1901. The tiles are described as \"an adopted Indian symbol for 'good luck and prosperity.'\"\n\nIn 2017, a candidate for the Cedar Rapids Iowa city council called for removal or alteration of a Native American scene in a restored 200-foot long City Hall mural because it contains a swastika symbol. The mural was created in 1936, part of the federal Treasury Relief Art Project when the building served as a federal courthouse. Several images in the mural had generated complaints for decades, resulting in it being painted over and then restored, twice.\n\nThe Laguna Bridge in Yuma, Arizona was built in 1905 by the U.S. Reclamation Department and is decorated with a row of swastikas with right-facing arms.\n\nSeveral examples of U.S. architectural decoration feature swastikas displayed alongside other religious symbols.\n\nThe Bahá'í House of Worship for the North American continent, located in Wilmette, Illinois, depicts religious symbols on each of its 9 outer pillars. \"The symbols are arranged in chronological order-from bottom to top-on the pillars. That's why the swastika is at the base, with the Star of David above it...\" The design dates to 1920 but construction was not completed until 1953. The largest Bahá'í House of Worship in the world, the white domed building has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places since 1978.\n\nThe \"Golden Rule Window\" in the Transfiguration Episcopal Church in New York City features medallion symbols depicting world religions, with Buddhism represented by the \"flyflot cross\" near a Jewish menorah. Built in 1849 with several modifications through 1926, the church was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973. During the Civil War the church worked for abolition of slavery and harboured runaway slaves.\n\nA student union at the University of Michigan includes a 1929 chapel with stained glass windows that feature religious symbols. A swastika with right-facing arms is included, along with a Christian cross, Hebrew star and others.\n\nThe Yerkes Observatory in Lake Geneva, Wisconsin, established in 1897 by the University of Chicago, includes ornate decoration. The rotunda includes a swastika symbol adjacent to a Star of David.\n\nSwastika Park is the name of a housing subdivision in Miami, Florida, created in 1917.\n\nAn upscale subdivision in Denver is named \"Swastika Acres\". Its name has been traced to the Denver Swastika Land Company, founded in 1908.\n\nSwastika, New York, located near the Adirondack Park Preserve in the northeast corner of the state, is adjacent to \"Swastika Road\".\n\nThe \"Swastika Trail\" is a historic auto trail in Iowa.\n\nAs early as 1914, \"Swastika Beach\" was recorded as the name of the unincorporated community at the southwest end of Fish Lake in Jackson County, Minnesota.\n\nThe K-R-I-T Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan built cars from 1909 to 1915 with a radiator badge that featured a right-facing white swastika on a blue background.\n\nThe Crane Valve Company manufactured steel valves in the 1920s and 30's in the U.S. with swastika markings, using a symbol with the arms pointed to the right.\n\nThe Buffum Tool Company of Louisiana, Missouri manufactured \"High Grade Tools for High Grade Workmen\" from about 1909 to 1922. The Buffum company's trademark was a swastika with right facing arms. During World War I it made bayonets and aeroplane parts. The company's logo was the \"Good Luck/Blessing/Swastika Cross\" and many of the products, sold nationwide, had \"the good luck cross on them.\"\n\nThe Washington Charcrete Company manufactured \"laundry trays\" (concrete utility sinks) with an imprinted logo bearing a swastika. Some examples survive (see pictures), but the date of their manufacture is unknown. The company did business in the states of Washington and Oregon and is mentioned in a 1914 ruling by the Supreme Court of Washington State.\n\nThe Duplex Adding Machine Company of St. Louis, Missouri issued stock certificates in 1910 that show the company's logo, a swastika with right-facing arms and math symbols.\n\nFlour was sold under the brand name \"Swastika\", The Lucky Flour by the Federal Milling Co., Lockport, N.Y. as advertised in 1909, and by the Monte Vista Milling and Elevator Company of Colorado, which registered the name in 1910.\n\nThe Downtown Historic District in Raton, New Mexico, listed on the National Register of Historic Places, includes the Swastika Coal office and Swastika Hotel buildings.\n\nThe mining town of Lakeview Idaho featured a \"Swastika Hotel\" in 1910, owned and operated by the Swastika Mining Company.\n\nThe St. Louis, Rocky Mountain and Pacific Railroad Company operated with cars and locomotives \"emblazoned with the red swastika symbol adopted as the road’s trademark.\" The symbol featured right facing arms and was tilted at an angle. The 105-mile \"Swastika Line\" operated from about 1902 to 1915, with major stops at Raton and Cimarron, New Mexico. The tracks were torn up for scrap during World War II when \"Swastika Line iron was used to fight a different kind of swastikas in Europe.\"\n\nA \"Swastika Theater\" operated in Sausalito, California in the early 20th century. Another \"Swastika Theater\" operated in Akron, Indiana.\n\nThe Swastika Novelty Company of Charleston, W.Va., made a \"talking board\", similar to a Ouija board, in 1907.\n\n\"Swastika Boards\" were built using laminated redwood and balsa wood by legendary surfer Lorrin \"Whitey\" Harrison in Los Angeles from 1931 until 1939 when they were renamed \"Waikiki Surfboards\" \"Swastikas became the most widely used production solid board of the period leading into World War II.\"\n\nThe swastika is seen on binders of pre-Nazi era publications of works by Rudyard Kipling. Both left and right orientations were used.\n\nTwo white swastika symbols on an Indian blanket made an appearance in the 1922 Buster Keaton silent movie \"The Paleface\". A newspaper columnist noted Nazis had adopted the swastika in 1920, prior to the film's release but that \"Only a bonehead would read anything sinister into that coincidence.\"\n\nPublisher Harold Hersey adopted a blue swastika as a symbol for his line of pulp magazines, Magazine Publishers.\nWhen the company was purchased by A. A. Wyn in 1929, the swastika was replaced with an Ace of Spades.\n\nSwastika quilt patterns were popular in America prior to World War II. In 2010 the Greeley Museums in Greeley, Colorado received a donated quilt covered in 27 swastikas, believed to date to around 1900. \"The swastika quilt-block pattern is also known as the Battle X of Thor, Catch Me If You Can, Devil's Dark Horse, Whirligig and Zig Zag\" according to the museum registrar. The quilt was not put on general display while museum officials considered how to provide context.\n\nA quilt with swastika-like pattern dating to 1927 was removed from display from a Havre, Montana museum in December 2010 after complaints from the public. A group of residents of the Bear's Paw Mountains had embroidered their names in the historic quilt, a gift for an ill neighbor. \"It was a very, very nice quilt and the story behind it was absolutely heartwarming\" according to a member of the museum foundation.\n\nMetal typeface Swastika borders were used by U.S. printers in the early 20th century. Controversy arose in 1937 when they appeared on Passaic, New Jersey sample election ballots. The printer responded, \"I've used the swastika emblems for ballot borders long before the world ever knew Hitler.\"\n\nIn the novel The Great Gatsby, the story of which takes place during the Roaring Twenties, one of the characters runs a business called \"The Swastika Holding Company.\"\n\nThe Ladies' Home Journal sponsored a Girl's Club with swastika membership pins, swastika-decorated handkerchief and a magazine titled, \"The Swastika\". Their version of the symbol was square with right facing arms. The club was formed at the beginning of the 20th century to encourage young women to sell magazine subscriptions.\n\nThe 1939 Tennessee State University yearbook lists a \"Swastika Club\" among women's student organisations. The group focused on literature, scholarship and \"clear and straight thinking\". Tennessee State is the only state-funded historically Black university in Tennessee.\n\nThe yearbook for Catawba College in Salisbury, North Carolina, first published in 1927, was known as the \"Swastika\", after a Native American design pattern found in the original tile of a campus administration building. The name was changed in 1941. The liberal arts college was established by the United Church of Christ in 1851.\n\nThe Boston Braves professional baseball team wore a \"luck inviting Swastika emblem\" on the front of their caps on opening day in 1914.\n\nAt least one minor league baseball team used the name: the Cañon City Swastikas represented Cañon City, Colorado in the Class D Rocky Mountain League in 1912. The team moved to Raton, New Mexico mid-season, then disbanded along with the league.\n\nThe \"Swastika Club of Freedom Township\" was formed in 1923 in rural Iowa, a social club serving farm women. The group produced a \"Swastika Club Cookbook\" in 1934. Its name was changed to the \"Freedom Township Women’s Club\" in 1942. Another \"Swastika Club\" for women met in Howell County Missouri in the 1920s.\n\nThe Swastika Canoe Club, of Pawtuxet Village competed with other canoe clubs in the eastern U.S.\n\nCollectors have identified more than 1,400 different swastika design coins, souvenir or merchant/trade tokens and watch fobs, distributed by mostly local retail and service businesses in the United States. The tokens that can be dated range from 1885 to 1939, with a few later exceptions. About 57 percent have the swastika symbol facing to the left, 43 percent to the right. Most promise good luck or feature other symbols such as a horseshoe, four leaf clover, rabbit's foot, wishbone or keys.\n\nIn 1925, Coca-Cola made a lucky watch fob in the shape of a swastika with right-facing arms and the slogan, \"Drink Coca Cola five cents in bottles\".\n\nThe Waterloo Gasoline Engine Company of Waterloo, Iowa offered a \"Good Luck\" token featuring a left facing swastika in addition to a four-leaf clover, horseshoe, wishbone and Plains Indian emblem. The company was sold in 1918 and became known as the John Deere Tractor Company. Harvard University Library has a 1908 leather watch fob with a brass swastika that was created for the presidential campaign of William Jennings Bryan.\n\nThe 1917 World War I good luck medal was produced in the United States with an American eagle superimposed by a four-leaf clover \"and a swastika – an ancient symbol of good luck\". The medal was designed by Adam Pietz, who served as Assistant Engraver at the United States Mint in Philadelphia for nearly 20 years.\n\nSome Boy Scout good luck tokens issued by the Excelsior Shoe company feature the swastika on the reverse.\n\nThe Cliff Dwellers Apartment building in New York City, completed in 1914, features two terracotta swastikas, tilted with arms pointing to the left. The building is well known for its western themed frieze, featuring buffalo skulls, mountain lions and rattlesnakes.\n\nThe Garfield Monument in Cleveland Ohio, dedicated in 1890 as a tomb and memorial for assassinated U.S. President James A. Garfield, contains swastika tile patterns throughout the floor. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1973.\n\nA small swastika is visible in the elaborate carvings representing several cultures above the main entrance to the Yale University Library.\n\nA Chicago television investigative journalism report in July 2015 found numerous examples of swastikas in the city's architecture. \"A swastika is on the front of Chicago's most popular tourist attraction, Navy Pier, and seen at the one of Columbia College's South Loop buildings. It is embedded in marble floors at University of Chicago on the Lower West Side and an embellishment on a city monument to Jacques Marquette. The design is on what is now the Bridgeview Bank, and the former Continental Illinois Bank, along with countless pre-WWII Chicago homes and apartment buildings.\"\n\nA swastika design, intended as a welcoming symbol of good fortune, inspired by Native American symbolism, was installed into the floor of the entryway of the Montana Club, a private gentlemen's club in Helena, Montana. Rebuilt in 1905 using a design by architect Cass Gilbert, the site is a conforming property in the Helena Historic District listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe KiMo Theatre in Albuquerque, New Mexico, built in 1927 in the Pueblo Deco style and restored in 2000, is owned and operated by the city, which describes it as an \"architectural gem\". The building includes Native American design elements, including swastikas with right facing arms. It was nearly torn down in 1977, the same year the KiMo was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nIn 1907, the Corn Palace in Mitchell, South Dakota, featured a design that had a swastika on one of the towers as an \"Indian good luck sign\". Each year the exterior is covered with elaborate murals made of South Dakota corn, grain and grasses. The building is the centerpiece of a historic district that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nIn Rapid City, South Dakota, there are swastikas in the lobby of the Hotel Alex Johnson, which opened in 1928. They are decorations honoring the Native American culture of Western South Dakota. The hotel is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Weston building on the campus of Williams College in Massachusetts features left facing, tilted swastika brick patterns. The building was originally a fraternity with a charter that banned Jews and non-Caucasians. The college uses it for language classes to ensure regular use by different cultures, and built a Jewish religious center behind it.\n\nThe Shaffer Hotel in Mountainair, New Mexico features both right and left facing swastika designs among its many Native American graphics. It has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places since 1978. As of 2016, it is closed.\n\nThe Perelman Building was completed in 1928 as the headquarters of the Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance Company but is now part of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Swastikas are visible in the elaborate decorative scheme, credited to Lee Lawrie. The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973.\n\nThe Entrance to the Philadelphia Museum of Art features a walkway frieze with a swastika meander pattern. The first section of the current building was completed in 1928.\n\nA Philadelphia fire station built in 1927 became controversial when local residents petitioned to remove a swastika design resembling the German Military Iron Cross. The township Commissioners, a majority of whom are Jewish, voted in 1998 to deny the petition, a position supported by local representatives of the Anti-Defamation League and Jewish Community Relations Council. \"A symbol's meaning, they say, is tied to its context.\"\n\nThe Augustan Society Headquarters and Library, built in 1916 in the Mojave Desert in Daggett, California, includes Native American swastika designs. The non-profit is \"An International Genealogical, Historical Heraldic and Chivalric Society\".\n\nThe 1926 Pueblo Revival—Spanish Colonial Revival—Mission Revival Style architecture of the Orcutt residence is decorated with Native American swastikas. It is located at the Orcutt Ranch Horticulture Center in West Hills, Los Angeles, California. The property has been designated a Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument.\n\nBoth right and left facing swastikas appear in disks near the top of columns on the Alexander & Baldwin building in Honolulu, Hawaii, built in 1929 and added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.\n\nSidewalks with swastika impressions can be found at Indian Village, Detroit, a historic neighborhood on the city's east side. The concrete impressions, dated 1914, bear the word \"Quality\" and the name of the construction company.\n\nA swastika design is visible on the exterior of the Detroit, Michigan downtown public library, built in 1931. A local website notes \"They were a popular item in certain Deco designs, and many are used in architecture throughout Downtown Detroit. They also can be seen quite often on floor tiles in church buildings.\"\n\nThe First Chinese Church of Christ in Honolulu, Hawaii, dedicated in 1929, features wooden pews with swastika carvings. The church website says they \"depict the wan-zi, an ancient Chinese symbol of 10,000 years of eternal blessedness. Sadly, Hitler reversed this symbol and made it into his Nazi swastika.\"\n\nThe Carlton Apartments in Houston, Texas, built in 1918, features an entryway framed by tiles with various patterns including the swastika.\n\nMore than 900 cast iron lampposts decorated with swastikas remain in place in downtown Glendale, California. The lampposts were manufactured in Canton, Ohio and installed in the 1920s. In 1995 the city responded to complaints that the lampposts should be removed. The city attorney's response included \"...research has revealed that the symbol itself was not uncommon in Judaism. The symbol itself has been found to appear in ancient synagogues as well as being found as a symbol appearing on sarcophagus in Roman catacombs.\" Cost to replace the lampposts was estimated at $3 million. The Glendale Historical Society \"has recommended preservation of the lampposts to the maximum extent possible.\"\n\nSimilar swastika designs can be seen on the lampposts outside the old San Francisco Mint, built in 1873, and listed on the National Register of Historic Places since 1976 and currently serves as a museum.\n\nThe California State Historical Resources Commission nominated the Los Gatos Union High School for listing on the National Register of Historic Places in 2003. Historic Architect A. G. Dill thanked the commission. \"Ms. Dill stated that her office was galvanised in 1999 when the new school principal attempted to chisel off the Greek key design because it had a swastika pattern. The school was built in 1925 prior to the Nazi’s taking over the symbol. Educators need to be educated.\" However, the Nazi party adopted the swastika in 1920, five years before the school was built.\n\nThe New Mexico State University yearbook continued under the name \"The Swastika\" in honour of the traditional meaning of the symbol.\n\nIn January 1999, Civil Rights groups asked the Jefferson County, Alabama Commission to remove nine swastikas carved into stone pillars at the county courthouse in Birmingham, Alabama. The building was completed in 1931 with symbols featuring both left and right facing arms. A commission aide said officials would not consider the request unless there were \"an awful lot of folks worrying us.\"\n\nThe restored Balboa Park Hospitality House in San Diego became controversial when swastika symbols were discovered on five light fixtures. The design dates to 1935. Park officials welded metal plates over the swastikas after a protest by the Anti-Defamation League. The San Diego Historical Society notes that the lamps were donated by a German American group and were intended to represent Nazi symbols. The nearby Balboa Park tea house had previously featured swastika decorations in 1915.\n\nA hand-carved wooden horse with swastikas on its saddle has been removed from a classic carousel at a shopping center in Portland, Oregon following complaints by the public. The carousel was built in 1921 and installed in Venice, California and later was a featured ride at Jantzen Beach Amusement Park which opened in 1928 as the largest amusement park in the United States. The Parker \"Four-Row Park Carousel\" was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1987. It is the only surviving carousel out of four made from the design. The original was created for the 1904 St. Louis World's Fair.\n\nCeramic tiles with a swastika design were produced by a number of North American manufacturers in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. They were often installed in repeating patterns or in combination with related ancient symbols. In western architecture, pre-World War II swastika tiles are typically a minor decorative element and have only become prominent when their original intent or symbolic meaning has been re-interpreted.\n\nSwastika tiles adorn the New Jersey Statehouse in Trenton, in a room built in the 1930s. A newspaper article in The Press of Atlantic City notes that the statehouse tiles were created by the local Mueller Mosaic Company. Led by Herman Carl Mueller, the firm used an innovative technique that combined glazing and deep carving to create a photographic-like sense of depth. The tiles were installed throughout the United States and Canada. The swastika design was only one of many different symbols featured in the Mueller catalogue.\n\nA Detroit columnist in 2015 began a campaign to remove swastika tiles from the Detroit Athletic Club, designed by Jewish architect Albert Kahn in 1915.\n\nReprints of tile catalogues, including the 1930 Mueller Mosaic Faience Tile Inserts catalogue are available from the non-profit California based Tile Heritage Foundation. Swastika tiles are also featured in the 1920 catalogue from Wheatley Pottery Company of Cincinnati Ohio, the 1928 catalogue from the Cambridge-Wheatley Company of Covington, Kentucky, which marketed Wheatley tiles and a 1930s catalogue from the Franklin Pottery Company of Lansdale, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Mueller tiles with swastika design can be found at the St. James Episcopal Church (1927), and the Immanuel Presbyterian Church (1928) in Los Angeles.\n\nIn May 2006, five terra cotta tiles were removed from St. Mary's Cathedral in St. Cloud Minnesota, the oldest parish in the community. The upper church, constructed in the late 1920s, included a number of decorative tiles including a series of ten that depicted ancient forms of the cross. Located near the eaves, the tiles represented the crux gammata, also known as the Gammadion, \"hooked cross\". The five swastika tiles alternated with a related design featuring the Lauburu or \"Basque cross\". The upper church's final design was created by the local architectural firm of Nairne W. Fisher, who had fought against Germany during World War I. Three of the tiles were destroyed in the process of removal, one was put on permanent display at the church. The removal was prompted in part by criticism from some current and former faculty at St. Cloud State University, where the university's electronic diversity newsletter featured a series of articles, including a history of the swastika that claimed by 1920 it was already \"the symbol of Aryan conquest and mastery\".\n\nOther Catholic Cathedrals that include swastika tiles among their decorations include: Saint Joseph Cathedral, Wheeling, West Virginia, a Romanesque design by architect Edward J. Weber of Pittsburgh, completed in 1925. St. Colman's Cathedral, built between 1868 and 1925 overlooking the port city of Cobh Ireland. Christ Church Cathedral, New Zealand, constructed in the 1880s. The Cathedral of Tampico, Tamaulipas, completed in the late 19th century with additional remodelling (see Tour By Mexico website for photograph of swastika tile floor, click on fifth camera icon). A tile floor at Hereford Cathedral in England is laid out in a swastika like pattern with arms pointed to the right. The floor at Amiens Cathedral in France features a right-facing swastika pattern with shortened arms, similar to the St. Cloud tiles. A popular tourist destination, Amiens is protected as a UNESCO World Heritage site.\n\nThe Plummer House in Rochester, Minnesota includes swastika tiles. The five-story home was constructed beginning in 1917 by Dr. Henry Plummer, a prominent figure in the history of the Mayo Clinic. The home was designed by Thomas Ellerbe, a second generation architect whose firm is now known as Ellerbe Becket. It has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places since 1975.\n\nIn 2008, school officials decided not to remove swastika floor tiles with left-facing arms from a Duluth, Minnesota elementary school built in 1929. A member of the City's Native American Commission noted that the nine tiles at the school entrances have roots in Native American symbolism. \"It has absolutely nothing to do with the Nazi symbolism.\"\n\nSt. Columba's Catholic Church in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, was designed by Pittsburg architect John T. Cornes and completed in 1914 as a territorial church for English speaking immigrants. Various forms of the cross are represented in the sanctuary's mosaic floor, including swastika designs. A local art enthusiast notes \"People don't realise that the swastika was not always a sign of hatred and horror; it originally symbolised good lock and fortune\".\n\nSwastika floor tiles were removed from the St. Lawrence Catholic Church in Lafayette, Indiana in March 1996, after they were discovered during renovation of the church entrance. The church was built in the early 1920s.\n\nThe Arizona Department of Agriculture building in Phoenix, Arizona, built in 1930, features swastika tiles in a pattern near its roofline.\n\nThe School of Public Health-Bloomington Building (IUSPH) at Indiana University contains decorative Native American-inspired swastika tilework on the walls of the foyer and stairwells on the southeast side of the building. In response to a complaint about the tiles, \"The president of the university sent a letter to the student, which explained the history of the symbol and the context in which it was placed in the School of Public Health-Bloomington (formerly HPER) building when it was built in 1917, prior to use of the symbol by the Nazis. The student appreciated the response\". In November 2013, a new appeal to remove the symbols appeared in the University's student paper.\n\nSwastika floor tiles appear in Breidenbaugh Hall, at Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania, built in 1927.\n\nIn November 1998 the Rome, New York Sentinel newspaper reported that swastika tiles were removed from the Gansevoort Elementary School where they had survived on a school floor for 84 years. A Sentinel editorial noted that similar tiles were left untouched at a Jewish synagogue, Temple Beth El, in nearby Utica, New York \"because the connotation to the Jewish congregation is not that of the Third Reich.\"\n\nSwastika tiles in a condominium lobby floor in White Plains, New York became the subject of a television news story and internet postings in September 2011. The housing complex's management indicated \"the tile was installed before WWII when the building was built in 1924, noting it had never received a complaint before.\"\n\nA local news report in April 2016 prompted Catholic Church officials to immediately remove four swastika tiles from the Rockville Centre, New York Cathedral. The church was constructed in the early 1930s. The tiles had gone unnoticed for more than 80 years in a little used church alcove.\n\nSwastika tiles in a courthouse floor in El Dorado Arkansas became controversial in late 2016 after a former city council member complained. The small ceramic swastika tiles were one of dozens of different symbols in the floor, in a classic styles courthouse build in 1928 and listed on the National Register of Historical Places since 1983. A county judge indicated the tiles would be left in place.\n\nIn 1991, the Shorewood, Wisconsin school board voted to remove tiles with swastika engravings from their high School physical education building.\n\nThe Reuters News Agency reported in 1990 that the seaside community of Hull, Massachusetts voted to remove swastika tiles from their town hall floor, built in 1923, after complaints from the New England Director of the Jewish Defense League. The removal went forward in spite of opposition from a local Jewish synagogue.\n\nMulticolored swastika tiles are visible on the exterior of a Chinese restaurant at the Country Club Plaza in Kansas City Missouri. The building dates to the early 1930s. The editor of a local Jewish publication reacted by saying \"You know, the swastika does predate Nazism. Short of any Nazi context, I don’t think you should find it offensive.\"\n\nThe foyer of Central High School in Pueblo, Colorado features right-facing swastikas set into the tile floor. The school was built in 1906 and was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.\n\nThe Bonneville County courthouse in Idaho has swastika floor tiles that have been alternately covered up and painted over. An architectural historian for the Idaho State Historical Society noted that the symbols could be removed even though the courthouse is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. In September 2009, court officials decided to leave the tiles in place.\n\nThe San Mateo County History Museum, a \"regional history center\" in Redwood City, California is housed in the former county courthouse, built in 1910 and designed \"to look as impressive as San Francisco City Hall.\". The mosaic tile floor in the rotunda includes swastika designs. The building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and the museum is accredited by the American Alliance of Museums.\n\nThe A.K. Smiley Public Library in Redlands, California, built in 1894, includes a swastika tile floor design. The building has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places since 1976, and a California State Historic Landmark in 1990.\n\nSwastika tiles are visible at the San Diego Mission Beach Plunge swimming pool, which opened in 1925.\n\nThe Ernst Cafe in the New Orleans Warehouse district has a 1902 swastika pattern tile floor, with left facing symbols. The restaurant's web page notes that Hitler was a teenager when the floor was installed.\n\nThe Moorish style Majestic Theater in East St. Louis, Illinois, built in 1928, features hundreds of colored tiles with a variety of geometric designs including numerous swastikas with arms pointing to the right. The theater was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1985 but has fallen into disrepair.\n\nThe Plays and Players Theatre, built in 1912 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has colored swastika floor tiles. The theater was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1973.\n\nThe 116th Street–Columbia University station of the New York City Subway features a ceramic mosaic design with a border of swastikas, which dates back to the station's 1904 opening.\n\nIn early 2016, the board of directors of the Longview Community Church in Longview, Washington debated removing swastika tiles from the church, constructed in 1925, and added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1496789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1496789", "title": "Won Buddhism", "text": "Won Buddhism\n\nWŏn Buddhism (Circle Buddhism) is a modernized form of Buddhism that seeks to make enlightenment possible for everyone and applicable to regular life. The scriptures are simplified so that they are easy to understand and their applications to life are made clear. Practice is simplified so that anyone, regardless of their wealth, occupation, or other external living conditions, can still practice Buddhism. Practices that are considered outdated, confusing, or unnecessary are removed. Because of the major changes that Won Buddhists have made to their practice, Won Buddhism can be regarded either as a new religious movement or as a form of Buddhism.\n\nThe name \"Won Buddhism\" comes from the Korean words 원/圓 \"won\" (\"circle\") and 불교/佛敎 \"bulgyo\" (\"Buddhism\"), literally meaning \"Round Buddhism\" or \"Consummate Buddhism.\" By \"consummate,\" Won Buddhists mean that they incorporate several different schools of Buddhist thought into their doctrine; that is, where some schools focus only on practicing meditation (\"samādhi\"), some schools devote themselves fully to studying scriptures (\"prajñā\"), and still others practice only their school's precepts (\"śīla\"), Won Buddhism believes in incorporating all three into daily practice.\n\nAccording to Won Buddhist sources, Bak Jungbin (, , 1891–1943, aka Sotaesan) attained bodhi in 1916 and had a precognition of the world entering an era of advancing material civilization to which humans would be enslaved. The only way to save the world was by expanding spiritual power through faith in genuine religion and training in sound morality. With the dual aims of saving sentient beings and curing the world of moral ills, Sot'aesan began his religious mission. He founded a new religious order with Buddhist teachings as its central doctrine, establishing the Society of the Study of the Buddhadharma at Iksan, North Jeolla Province, in 1924. Bak edified his followers with his new doctrine until his death in 1943. The central doctrine was published in the \"Bulgyo jeongjeon\" (\"The Correct Canon of Buddhism\") in 1943.\n\nIn 1947, Song Gyu (, 1900–1962), the second patriarch, renamed the order \"Won Buddhism\" and published a new canon, \"Wonbulgyo gyojeon\" (\"The Scriptures of Won Buddhism\"), in 1962.\n\nWon Buddhist doctrine is split into two gates by which enlightenment is attained. The first, the Gate of Faith, is made up of the Fourfold Grace and the Four Essentials, which together make up the necessary \"mindset\" of a practitioner. The second gate is the Gate of Practice, composed of the Threefold Study and the Eight Articles, which make up the necessary \"behaviors\" of a practitioner.\n\"Il-Won\" is the symbol that Won Buddhists use to represent the ultimate truth. This ultimate truth is said to be beyond the limits of what words can describe, so the circle is often said to be like a finger pointing at the Moon. In addition to representing the ultimate truth, \"Il Won Sang\" also represents everything we know, because for the ultimate truth to \"be\" ultimate, it must cover everything—therefore, everything must be a representation of the truth. As Buddhas' minds are one with the truth, Buddha-nature, Il-Won is the symbol of the dharmakāya of the Buddha and of all enlightened masters; it is the true nature of all sentient beings, regardless of whether they have awakened to it or not. That means it is the original source of the Four Graces (heaven and earth, parents, fellow beings, and laws) to which one owes one's life. The practice of Il-Won lies in wisdom (\"prajñā\"), fostering concentration (\"samādhi\"), and using virtue (\"śīla\") upon enlightenment to the Buddha-nature continuously in daily life.\n\nThe Four Graces are the embodiment of the \"Il-won\" in its different forms; that is, all that exists in the universe can be separated into the Four Graces. The Graces are written from the perspective of gratitude owed by the practitioner, so even though parents are a type of fellow being, the debt of gratitude owned by practitioners to their parents is special and different compared to the debt of gratitude owed to other fellow beings. \n\n\nThe threefold practice is carried out through Zen, which holds as its central principle that when the six sense organs are at rest, one should nourish the One Mind by clearing the mind of worldly thoughts; when they are at work, one should forsake injustice and cultivate justice.\n\n\nScriptures of Won Buddhism include \"The Principal Book of Won Buddhism\" (\"Wonbulgyo chongjon\") and \"The Discourse of the Great Master Dharma Words\" (\"Daejonggyeong\").\n\nIn addition to combining Buddhist schools, Won Buddhism can also be considered an amalgamation of Confucianism, Daoism, and Buddhism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27976180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27976180", "title": "Year 6000", "text": "Year 6000\n\nAccording to classical Jewish sources, the Hebrew year 6000 (from sunset of 29 September 2239 until nightfall of 16 September 2240 on the Gregorian calendar) marks the latest time for the initiation of the Messianic Age. The Talmud, Midrash, and the Kabbalistic work, the Zohar, state that the 'deadline' by which the Messiah must appear is 6,000 years from creation. According to tradition, the Hebrew calendar started at the time of Creation, placed at 3761 BC. The current (-3761/-3760) Hebrew year is .\n\nThe belief that the seventh millennium will correspond to the Messianic Age is founded upon a universalized application of the concept of Shabbat—the 7th day of the week—the sanctified 'day of rest'.\n\nThe Ten Commandments state (Exodus 20:8):\n\n“Remember the Sabbath day to sanctify it. Six days shall you work and perform all of your labors. And on the seventh day, which is the Sabbath day unto the Lord your God, you shall do no work... For in six days God made the heavens and the earth, the oceans and all therein, and He rested on the seventh day. \nTherefore God hath blessed the Sabbath day and sanctified it.”\n\nThis tradition maintains that each day of the week corresponds to one thousand years of creation: Just as the six days of the workweek culminate in the sanctified seventh day of Shabbat, so too will the six millennia of creation culminate in the sanctified seventh millennium (Hebrew years 6000–7000) — the Messianic Age.\n\nJust as Shabbat is the sanctified 'day of rest' and peace, a time representing joyful satisfaction with the labors completed within the previous 6 days, so too the seventh millennium will correspond to a universal 'day of rest' and peace, a time of 'completeness' of the 'work' performed in the previous six millennia.\n\nThe Talmud also draws parallels between the Shmita (Sabbatical) year and the seventh millennium: For six 'years', or millennia, the earth will be worked, whilst during the seventh 'year', or millennium, the world will remain 'fallow', in a state of 'rest' and universal peace.\n\nThe reconciliation between the traditional Judaic age of the world and the current scientifically derived age of the world is beyond the scope of this article, with some taking a literal approach, as with Young Earth creationism, and others, such as Gerald Schroeder, a scientific conciliatory approach.\n\nThe Talmud comments:\n\nR. Katina said, “Six thousand years the world will exist and one [thousand, the seventh], it shall be desolate (haruv), as it is written, ‘And the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day’ (Isa. 2:11)... R. Katina also taught, “Just as the seventh year is the Shmita year, so too does the world have one thousand years out of seven that are fallow (mushmat), as it is written, ‘And the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day’ (Isa. 2:11); and further it is written, ‘A psalm and song for the Shabbat day’ (Ps. 92:1) – meaning the day that is altogether Shabbat – and also it is said, ‘For one thousand years in Your [God's] eyes are but a day that has passed.’ (Ps.90:4) (Sanhedrin 97a).”\n\nThe Midrash in Pirke De-Rabbi Eliezer comments:\n\nSix eons for going in and coming out, for war and peace. The seventh eon is entirely Shabbat and rest for life everlasting.\n\nThe Zohar states:\n\nIn the 600th year of the sixth thousand, the gates of wisdom on high and the wellsprings of lower wisdom will be opened. This will prepare the world to enter the seventh thousand, just as man prepares himself toward sunset on Friday for the Sabbath.\n\nThe Zohar explains further:\n\nThe redemption of Israel will come about through the mystic force of the letter “Vav” [which has the numerical value of six], namely, in the sixth millennium…. Happy are those who will be left alive at the end of the sixth millennium to enter the Shabbat, which is the seventh millennium; for that is a day set apart for the Holy One on which to effect the union of new souls with old souls in the world (Zohar, Vayera 119a).\n\nThere is a kabbalistic tradition that maintains that each of the seven days of creation in Genesis chapter one corresponds to one millennium of the existence of natural creation.\n\nThe tradition teaches that the seventh day of the week, the Sabbath day of rest, corresponds to the seventh millennium, the age of universal 'rest' - the Messianic Era.\n\nElaborating on the theme of the seventh millennium representing the Messianic Age are numerous early and late Jewish scholars, including Rashi, the Ramban, Chaim Vital, Isaac Abrabanel, Abraham Ibn Ezra, Rabbeinu Bachya, Rabbi Yaakov Culi author of Me'am Lo'ez, the Vilna Gaon, the Lubavitcher Rebbe, the Ramchal, and Aryeh Kaplan.\n\nThe acceptance of the idea of the seventh millennium representing the Messianic Age across the Ashkenazi - Sephardi divide, the Chassidim - Misnagdim divide, and across the rational Talmud and mystical Kabbalah perspectives, shows the centrality of this idea in traditional Judaism.\n\nRashi draws a parallel between the tranquility experienced presently on the seventh day of the week, Shabbat, and that which will be experienced in the seventh millennium:\n\nThe Talmud Avoda Zara folio 9a cites a teaching of the Academy of Elijah that \"the world will exist for six thousand years\". Rashi (s.v ששת אלפים שנים) comments on this: “The world is decreed to last for six thousand years, as the days of the week; the seventh day of the week is Shabbat, so too in the seventh millennium, will there be tranquility in the world.”\n\nIn his Sha'ar Hagmul, Ramban writes that the sixth millennium will see the advent of the Messiah and the seventh millennium will be the Shabbat of the 'World to Come', wherein the righteous will be resurrected and rejoice.\n\nRamban further writes that the Scriptural verse, “And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it” (Gen. 2:3), refers to His blessing the World to Come which begins at the seventh millennium.\n\nIn his commentary to Genesis 2:3, Rabbeinu Bachya writes that the seventh millennium will follow the Messiah and the resurrection, and will be a time of “great eternal delight” for those who merit resurrection.\n\nThis being the case, he explains, just as one prepares during the six days of the week for the Shabbat, so too one should prepare during the six thousand years for the seventh.\n\nChaim Vital writes that whoever wants to know what will happen in the end days, should study the first seven days of creation. Each day of creation represents 1000 years, and the seventh 'day', beginning in the year 6000, represents the day of rest.\n\nDon Isaac Abrabanel writes that similar to the structure of the week of Creation, so too the world will exist for six thousand years, with the seventh millennium being a Hefsek (break) and a Shvita (rest), like Shabbat, Shmita, and Yovel.\n\nIn his famed work Me'am Lo'ez, in a section elaborating on the parallels between the Exodus from Egypt and the Final Redemption, Rabbi Yaakov Culi writes: \"It seems logical to assume that prayers said today for the redemption are more acceptable than those said in earlier times... In earlier times, the redemption was far in the future. Therefore, in order for their prayers to be have any effect, people had to pray intensely. In those days, people were a thousand years from the time in which the redemption had to take place. Now, however, we are only 500, or 200, years away from the time, and the closer it comes, the easier it is for prayers to be accepted\". In the footnote to this statement, Rabbi Aryeh Kaplan writes: \"This was written in 5492 (1732). Since there was a tradition that the Messiah would have to come before the year 6000 (2240), there was only 500 years left until the redemption would have to come. There was also a tradition that the redemption would have to begin after 200 years, that is by 5700 (1940). This would seem to lend support to the contention that the formation of the modern state of Israel is the beginning of the redemption\". \n\nThe Vilna Gaon writes:\n\nEach day of Creation alludes to a thousand years of our existence, and every little detail that occurred on these days will have its corresponding event happen at the proportionate time during its millennium.\n\nThe עִקְּבוֹת מְשִׁיחַ (\"iqvot Meshiaḥ\"), footsteps of Messiah, began the first hour of Friday morning in the Sixth Millennium, that is the year Five Hundred [ from nightfall of October 4, 1739 AD until nightfall of September 22, 1740 AD ], and from hour to hour the footsteps have continued to progress from many aspects [cf. M \"Avot\" 1:1; BT \"Sanhedrin\" 38a]. As is known, every hour consists of forty-one years and eight months [alt., 41.666], counting from the time that the bonds on the Messiah’s heels were loosened, as it says, \"You have loosened my bonds\" (Psalms 116:16), and as revealed in: \"A decree He declared it for Joseph… ‘I delivered his shoulder from the burden his palms were loosed from the hod’\" (Psalms 81:6-7). Beginning with the second hour [i.e., from 5541 (1781 AD)], the entire House of Israel took the stage, both as a whole, and with regard to each individual member of the nation, as an order from above, of Messiah of the beginning of redemption, namely, Messiah Son of Joseph.\n\nThe Ramchal explains that the Shabbat Millennium will be a time of rest, which will be merited by the righteous.\n\nThe Lubavitcher Rebbe Menachem Mendel Schneerson explains that upon having reached the Hebrew year 5750 (1989 CE), the millennial 'time-clock' had reached the time of the 'eve' of Shabbat.\n\nThis is based on the teaching of the Talmud, which states that one thousand human years is equivalent to one 'day' in the eyes of the Creator, which in turn is based upon the verse in Psalms, \"For one thousand years in Your eyes are but a day that has passed (Psalms 90:4)\". Therefore, given that one human-time millennium is equal to one cosmic 'day', the human-time seventh millennium is equivalent to the seventh cosmic 'day', the 'Shabbat', the Messianic age.\n\nGiven that the Jewish day begins at nightfall, the year 5750 represented 12:00pm midday on the millennial 'Friday', as per the table below.\n\nThe Lubavitcher Rebbe, as others, maintains that the Messiah must arrive at, or before, the onset of the Shabbat, the year 6000.\n\nThe English year 2018, corresponding to the Hebrew year , thus marks floor(*0.024-126):floor(60*(*0.024-floor(*0.024)))pm on the Millennial Friday. In Jewish law, a half-hour past midday or \"mincha gedola\" marks the time on Friday afternoon when the influence of Shabbat begins, and some authorities forbid keeping a business open past that point.\n\nKabbalist and grandfather of Rabbi Yosef Sholom Eliashiv, Rabbi Shlomo Elyashiv writes in Drushei Olam HaTohu:\n\n...This is why so much time must transpire from the time of creation until the time of the Tikkun (lit. 'correction', Moshiach's coming). All the forces of Gevurot (strict judgement) are rooted in the six Sefirot—Chesed, Gevurah, Tiferet, Netzach, Hod, Yesod—which are the six days of creation... and also the 6,000 years of history that the world will exist.\n\nAnd within [the six Sefirot] are the roots of all that will happen from the six days of creation until the Final Tikkun... We find that all that transpires is the result of the sparks from the time of Tohu, Chaos...\n\nAryeh Kaplan writes:\n\nNever before has mankind been faced with such a wide range of possibilities. Never before has it had such tremendous power at its disposal, to use for good or evil... We need not belabor the point, but the past hundred years or so have brought about an increase in knowledge unsurpassed in all human history... The ultimate goal of the historic process is the perfection of society... is what we call the Messianic Age...\n\nAlmost 2000 years ago, the Zohar predicted, \"In the 600th year of the sixth thousand, the gates of wisdom on high and the wellsprings of lower wisdom will be opened. This will prepare the world to enter the seventh thousand, just as man prepares himself toward sunset on Friday for the Sabbath. It is the same here. And a mnemonic for this is (Gen 7:11), 'In the 600th year... all the foundations of the great deep were split'. Here we see a clear prediction that in the Jewish year 5600 (or 1840), the wellsprings of lower wisdom would be opened and there would be a sudden expansion of secular knowledge.\n\nIn an interview with Israel National Radio, Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis said the following:\n\nListen carefully, friends, to what I'm telling you. Hashem, Elokei Yisrael, created this world that we are living in today in six days.\n\nEvery day was a thousand years. This world, as we know it today, cannot last beyond 6,000 years. Right now, we are in the year 5769, which means it's Erev Shabbos of the world. By the year 6,000, Mashiach has to be here. He could come much earlier. But by the year 6,000, he has to be here. ... the Vilna Gaon said that the last war, Milchemet Gog uMagog, is going to last only 12 minutes because they are going to have such weapons...\n\nWe know that the final redemption, the final Geula, it's going to be like when you left Egypt – only one-fifth of our people left Egypt. Four-fifths perished... during the plague of darkness.\n\nSo I'm appealing to every Jew. Every negative prophecy can be changed. We can bring Mashiach today. Right now, we are living in a period called Erev [eve of] Shabbat.\n\nIt's Erev Shabbat, because when Mashiach will come, it will be the day that will be all Shabbat, the seventh day...\n\nLet's bring Shabbos early, and let us to bring Shabbos with menucha [ease], with shalom [peace], with simchah [happiness] – Is it possible? Absolutely?! Every negative prophecy can be changed.\n\n"}
{"id": "58478679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58478679", "title": "Yerphal Caves", "text": "Yerphal Caves\n\nYerphal Caves, also Yerphale Caves, are a small group of Buddhist caves located near Umbraj, Maharashtra, India. The caves were only discovered recently, in 1979. It is located not far from the Karad Caves (about 25 km).\n\nThe group contains a small chaitya hall with an apsidal plan with a stupa inside. There are also two cells, and an unfinished cave. The caves can be dated to the first half of the 2nd century CE.\n"}
