{"id": "1006015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1006015", "title": "1982 Commonwealth Games", "text": "1982 Commonwealth Games\n\nThe 1982 Commonwealth Games were held in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia from 30 September to 9 October 1982. The Opening Ceremony was held at the QEII Stadium (named for Elizabeth II), in the Brisbane suburb of Nathan. The QEII Stadium was also the venue which was used for the athletics and archery competitions during the Games. Other events were held at the purpose-built Sleeman Sports Complex in Chandler.\n\nThe Chairman of the 1982 Commonwealth Games was Sir Edward Williams.\n\nThe 1982 Commonwealth Games Logo was designed by Paulo Ferreira, who was the winner of a nationwide competition held in 1978. The symbol is derived from the form of a bounding kangaroo. The three bands, forming stylized A's (for Australia), are in colours which are common to flags of many Commonwealth countries.\n\nMatilda the kangaroo mascot for the 1982 Commonwealth Games was represented by a cartoon kangaroo, and a gigantic 13-metre (42 feet 8 inches) high mechanical \"winking\" kangaroo, who travelled around the stadium and winked at the crowd.\n\nThe games were officially opened by The Duke of Edinburgh and closed by The Queen.\n\nBidding for the XII Commonwealth Games was held in Montreal, Canada at the 1976 Summer Olympics. Lagos, Brisbane, Kuala Lumpur and Birmingham were the bidding cities. On 14 July 1976 it was announced that Brisbane had won the rights to stage the Games after the other candidate cities withdrew bids earlier that year.\n\nBrisbane was awarded by default of being the only Candidate City left at the bid election after Birmingham reversed its decision to submit an application. Nigeria's boycott of the Montreal Summer Olympics made Lagos' bid lobbying impractical. The Montreal Summer Olympics were plagued with cost overruns and bidding on a sports festival anywhere in the world was not good politically.\n\n46 Commonwealth nations and territories took part in the 1982 Commonwealth Games. A total of 1,583 athletes and 571 officials participated in the event. The Griffith University campus was used as an athletes village.\n\nSports contested during the 1982 Commonwealth Games included athletics, archery, badminton, lawn bowls, boxing, cycling, shooting, swimming, diving, weightlifting and wrestling. Table tennis and Australian football were demonstration sports.\n\n\nThe ceremony at the QEII Stadium was held on a fine but extremely windy day. The wind was so strong that skydivers who were going to descend into the stadium were cancelled. Instead they made an entrance at the closing ceremony.\n\nThe first event of the Games was Road Trial in cycling. England won the Gold Medal in the event, and Australia won the Silver Medal—coming second to England by only six seconds.\n\nOther sports which were contested on the first day of competition included swimming and diving, weightlifting, shooting and bowls.\n\nSports contested included swimming, diving, weightlifting, shooting, cycling, bowls and archery.\n\nThe day was marred by both Australia and Canada being disqualified in the 4 × 100 metres relay in swimming, both problems occurring during change-overs. The medals awarded for this race went to England, Scotland and New Zealand.\n\nSports contested included swimming, diving, cycling, athletics, archery, hammer throwing and shooting.\n\nThe day was marred when Canada was again disqualified, this time in the 4 × 200 metres freestyle relay. Canada protested against the winners, Australia, as well as against their own disqualification.\n\nElizabeth II closed the Games during a colourful ceremony, which included parachute jumpers (who had originally been also intended as part of the Opening Ceremony display) jumping and landing in a special target area within the stadium and red, white and blue balloons. Matilda the Kangaroo also winked at the Queen. Following the closing of the Games, the Queen and Duke left the stand to be driven from the stadium. However, nobody wanted the Games to end and the Australian team formed a 'guard of honour' and ran beside and behind the car in which Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip were travelling, as it circled the stadium several times before finally leaving. Team members from other countries also joined in running after the royal car.\n\nThis is the full table of the medal count of the 1982 Commonwealth Games. These rankings sort by the number of gold medals earned by a country. The number of silvers is taken into consideration next and then the number of bronze. If, after the above, countries are still tied, equal ranking is given and they are listed alphabetically. This follows the system used by the IOC, IAAF and BBC.\n\nThe Brisbane Commonwealth Games were also noted by large-scale protests by the Aboriginal rights movement in Australia, which brought to the centre of international media attention the lack of land rights, poor living condition and suppression of personal and political rights in Queensland in particular, and in Australia as a whole. The protests, which were followed by large-scale arrests, are a significant event in the history of the Australian Aboriginal movement.\n\nThe Matilda mascot from the opening ceremony was relocated to Wet'n'Wild Water World, a water park in the Gold Coast hinterland. Unfortunately, in 2007, Matilda lay out the back of Wet'n'Wild in pieces, until 2011, when the winking icon found a new home at the back of the Kybong Matilda fuel station (now a Puma Energy station), near Gympie, and has been thrilling visitors and locals with her impressive stature.\n\nIn 2009 as part of the Q150 celebrations, the 1982 Commonwealth Games were announced as one of the Q150 Icons of Queensland for its role as a \"Defining Moment\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25840111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25840111", "title": "1985 World's Strongest Man", "text": "1985 World's Strongest Man\n\nThe 1985 World's Strongest Man was the ninth edition of World's Strongest Man and was won by Geoff Capes from the United Kingdom. It was his second title after finishing third the previous year. 1984 champion Jón Páll Sigmarsson from Iceland finished second and Cees de Vreugd from the Netherlands finished third. The contest was held at Cascais, Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "23884769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23884769", "title": "1994 Liberian Premier League", "text": "1994 Liberian Premier League\n\nStatistics of Liberian Premier League in season 1994.\n\nIt was contested by 15 teams, and National Port Authority Anchors won the championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "21759930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21759930", "title": "2002–03 Libyan Premier League", "text": "2002–03 Libyan Premier League\n\nThe 2002-03 Libyan Premier League was the 35th edition of the competition organised by the Libyan Football Federation, since the competition's inception in 1963. 14 sides competed in this season's competition, shown below. Al Ittihad won their second title in a row, their 10th overall. They were awarded the Libyan Star, and the golden star upon their badge signifies this.\n\n"}
{"id": "57331644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57331644", "title": "2018 Townsville 400", "text": "2018 Townsville 400\n\nThe 2018 Townsville 400 (formally known as 2018 Watpac Townsville 400) was a motor racing event for the Supercars Championship, held on the weekend of 6-8 July 2018. The event was held at Townsville Street Circuit near Townsville, Queensland and consisted of two races, both 200 kilometres in length. It was the eighth event of sixteen in the 2018 Supercars Championship and hosted Races 17 and 18 of the season.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38264884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38264884", "title": "Aah! Harimanada", "text": "Aah! Harimanada\n\nOn the first day of the September Professional Sumo Tournament, the new \"yokozuna\" Harimanada enters the ring wearing an eerie mask, surprising the audience. He then declares that he will break Futabayama's streak of 69 consecutive wins, and that he would retire on the spot if he loses even once. This invokes the wrath of the Japan Sumo Association and makes an enemy of all \"makuuchi\" wrestlers.\n\n\n\n\n\nE&G Film produced an anime television series based on the manga, titled . It was directed by Norio Osada. The series premiered in Japan on TV Tokyo on April 23, 1992, and ran for 23 episodes until its conclusion on October 1, 1992. \"Aah! Harimanada\" is notable as an animated series based on the rare theme of sumo wrestling; following the end of the series' broadcast, no other such series would be produced until the premiere of \"Rowdy Wrestler!! Matsutaro\" in 2014.\n\n\"Aah! Harimanada\" was adapted into three video games of the same name in 1993. A Game Gear title was developed by Sega and released on July 2. A Game Boy title by Ask Kodansha was released on July 23. Sega also developed a title for the Mega Drive that was released on September 3. The Mega Drive game was criticized for its \"poor responsiveness\" and \"boring gameplay\". British gaming magazine Sega Pro rated the Mega Drive version 59 out of 100.\n\n"}
{"id": "42071707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42071707", "title": "Archery Association of Singapore", "text": "Archery Association of Singapore\n\nThe Archery Association of Singapore is the National Sports Association for the sport of archery in Singapore.\n\nIt is a member association with the world governing body for archery, World Archery Federation.\n\nIts current president is Tang Chang Poh.\n"}
{"id": "231482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231482", "title": "Artistic gymnastics", "text": "Artistic gymnastics\n\nArtistic gymnastics is a discipline of gymnastics in which athletes perform short routines (ranging from approximately 30 to 90 seconds) on different apparatuses, with less time for vaulting. The sport is governed by the Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique (FIG), which designs the Code of Points and regulates all aspects of international elite competition. Within individual countries, gymnastics is regulated by national federations, such as Gymnastics Canada in Canada, British Gymnastics in the United Kingdom and USA Gymnastics in the United States. Artistic gymnastics is a popular spectator sport at the Summer Olympic Games and other competitions.\n\nThe gymnastic system was mentioned in works by ancient authors, such as Homer, Aristotle, and Plato. It included many disciplines that would later become separate sports, such as swimming, racing, wrestling, boxing, and riding, and was also used for military training. In its present form, gymnastics evolved in Bohemia and what is now Germany at the beginning of the 19th century, and the term \"artistic gymnastics\" was introduced at the same time to distinguish free styles from the ones used by the military. The German educator Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, who was known as the father of gymnastics, invented several apparatus, including the horizontal bar and parallel bars, which are used to this day. Two of the first gymnastics clubs were Turnvereins and Sokols.\n\nIn 1881, the FIG was founded, and it remains the governing body of international gymnastics. It initially included only three countries and was called the European Gymnastics Federation until 1921, when the first non-European countries joined the federation and it was reorganized into its present form. Gymnastics was included in the program of the 1896 Summer Olympics, but women have been allowed to participate in the Olympics only since 1928. The World Championships, held since 1903, were open only to men until 1934. Since that time, two branches of artistic gymnastics have developed: women's artistic gymnastics (WAG) and men's artistic gymnastics (MAG). Unlike men's and women's branches of many other sports, WAG and MAG differ significantly in apparatus used at major competitions and in techniques.\n\nWomen's gymnastics entered the Olympics as a team event in 1928 and was included in the twelfth gymnastics world championships in 1950. Individual women were recognized in the all-around as early as the tenth world championships in 1934. Two years after the full women's program (all-around and all four event finals) was introduced at the 1950 World Championships, it was added to the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki, Finland, and the format has remained to this day.\n\nThe earliest champions in women's gymnastics tended to be in their 20s, and most had studied ballet for years before entering the sport. Larisa Latynina, the first great Soviet gymnast, won her first Olympic all-around medal at the age of 22 and her second at 26; she became the 1958 world champion while pregnant with her daughter. Věra Čáslavská of Czechoslovakia, who followed Latynina to become a two-time Olympic all-around champion, was 22 before she started winning gold medals.\n\nIn the 1970s, the average age of Olympic gymnasts began to decrease. While it was not unheard-of for teenagers to compete in the 1960s—Ludmilla Tourischeva was 16 at her first Olympics in 1968—younger female gymnasts slowly became the norm as the sport's difficulty increased. Smaller, lighter girls generally excelled in the more challenging acrobatic elements required by the redesigned Code of Points. The 58th Congress of the FIG—held in July 1980, just before the Olympics—decided to raise the minimum age for senior international competition from 14 to 15. The change, which came into effect two years later, did not eliminate the problem. By the time of the 1992 Summer Olympics, elite competitors consisted almost exclusively of \"pixies\"—underweight, prepubertal teenagers—and concerns were raised about athletes' welfare.\n\nThe FIG responded to this trend by raising the minimum age for international elite competition to 16 in 1997. This, combined with changes in the Code of Points and evolving popular opinion in the sport, led to the return of older gymnasts. While the average elite female gymnast is still in her middle to late teens and of below-average height and weight, it is also common to see gymnasts competing well into their 20s. At the 2004 Olympics, both the second-place American team and the third-place Russians were captained by women in their mid-20s; several other teams, including Australia, France, and Canada, included older gymnasts. At the 2008 Olympics, the silver medalist on vault, Oksana Chusovitina, was a 33-year-old mother. She received another silver medal on vault at the 2011 World Championships in Tokyo, when she was 36. At the age of 41, Chusovitina competed at her 7th consecutive Olympics at the 2016 Olympics, a world record for gymnastics.\n\nBoth male and female gymnasts are judged on all events for execution, degree of difficulty, and overall presentation skills.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCurrently, in Olympic or World Championships competition, the meet is divided into several sessions which occur on different days: qualification, team finals, all-around finals and event finals.\n\nDuring the qualification (abbreviated TQ) round, gymnasts compete with their national squad on all four (WAG) or six (MAG) apparatus. The scores from this session are not used to award medals, but are used to determine which teams advance to the team finals and which individual gymnasts advance to the all-around and event finals. For the 2020 Olympic cycle a new qualification format has been adopted. Each country can enter six gymnasts: a four-person team and two individual gymnasts. The current format of team qualification is 4–4–3, meaning that there are four gymnasts on the team, all four compete on each event, and three of the scores count. Individual gymnasts also compete to be qualified to the all-around and event finals, but their scores do not count toward team score.\n\nIn the team finals (abbreviated TF), gymnasts compete with their national squad on all four/six apparatus. The scores from the session are used to determine the medalists of the team competition. The current format is 4–3–3, meaning that there are four gymnasts on the team, three compete on each event, and all three scores count. \n\nIn the all-around finals (abbreviated AA), the gymnasts are individual competitors and perform on all four/six apparatus. Their scores from all four/six events are added together and the gymnasts with the three highest totals are awarded all-around medals. Only two gymnasts from each country may advance to the all-around finals.\n\nIn the event finals (abbreviated EF) or apparatus finals, the top eight gymnasts on each event compete for medals. Only two gymnasts from each country may advance to each event final.\n\nOther competitions are not bound by these rules, and may use other formats. For instance, the 2007 Pan American Games had only one day of team competition on a 6–5–4 format, and allowed three athletes from each country to advance to the all-around. In other meets, such as those on the World Cup circuit, the team event is not contested at all.\n\nCompetitions use the \"New Life\" scoring rule, which was introduced in 1989. Under New Life, marks from one session do not carry over to the next. In other words, a gymnast's performance in team finals does not affect his or her scores in the all-around finals or event finals; he or she starts with a clean slate. In addition, the marks from the team qualifying round do not count toward the team finals.\n\nBefore the introduction of the New Life rule, the scores from the team competition carried over into the all-around and event finals, and could have a negative or positive effect on the gymnast's efforts in subsequent sessions. The gymnasts' final results, and medal placement were previously determined by the combination of the following scores:\n\n\nBefore 1997, the team competition was structured differently. It still consisted of two sessions. However, gymnasts performed compulsory exercises in the preliminaries and their optional routines on the second day. The team medals were awarded on the combined scores of both days. All-around and event final qualifiers were also determined according to the combined scores. In meets where team titles were not contested, such as the American Cup, there were two days of all-around competition: one for compulsories and one for optionals.\n\nThe optionals were the gymnasts' personal routines, developed with their coaches to adhere to the requirements of the \"Code of Points.\" They were performed in the team finals, the all-around and the event finals.\n\nThe compulsories were routines that were developed and choreographed by the FIG Technical Committee. They were performed on the first day of the team competition. Every single elite gymnast in every single FIG member nation performed the same exercises. The dance and tumbling skills of compulsory routines were generally less difficult than those of the optionals, but heavily emphasized perfect technique, form and execution. Scoring was exacting, with judges taking deductions for even slight deviations from the required choreography. For this reason, many gymnasts and coaches considered compulsories more challenging to perform than optionals.\n\nCompulsories were eliminated at the end of 1996. The move was extremely controversial, and many successful gymnastics federations, including Russia, the United States and China, voted against the abolition of compulsories. They argued that the exercises helped maintain a high standard of form, technique and execution among gymnasts. Opponents believed that compulsories harmed emerging gymnastics programs. Many members of the gymnastics community still argue that compulsories should be reinstated.\n\nMany gymnastics federations have maintained compulsories in their national programs. Gymnasts competing at the lower levels of the sport—for instance, Level 4–6 in USA Gymnastics, grade 2 in South Africa and national levels 3–6 in Australia—frequently only perform compulsory routines.\n\nArtistic gymnasts compete only with other gymnasts in their level. Gymnasts start at the lowest level of competition and advance to higher levels by learning gymnastics skills and achieving qualifying scores at competitions.\n\nIn America, levels range from 1 to 10, then junior elite and senior elite. Elite, especially senior elite is considered Olympic level, and these gymnasts generally perform routines designed to meet the FIG's international \"Code of Points\". Levels 1–2 are usually considered recreational, or beginner; 3–6 intermediate, and 7–Elite advanced. Competitions begin at level 3 and in some gyms, level 2. A gymnast must have specific skills for each event in order to advance to the next level and once a gymnast has competed in a Sectional meet, they may not drop back to a lower level in the same competitive season. Levels 1–2 are basic skills, such as handstands, cartwheels, etc. 3–5 are compulsory levels, and 6 is an in-between level, with strict requirements but still allowing the gymnast to add in their own creativity.\n\nIn the UK, the levels system goes from 5 (lowest) to 2; there are also two tracks for Elite and Club level competition. In Canada there are several different competitive streams: Recreational, Developmental, Pre-Competitive, Provincial, National and High Performance. Provincial levels range from 5 (lowest) to 1; National levels are Pre-Novice, Novice, Open, and High Performance. High Performance levels are Novice, Junior and Senior.\n\nIn Germany, there are different competitive systems for grassroots sport and for high-performance sport. For hobby sportsmen there is a system of compulsory exercises from 1 to 9 and of optional exercises from 4 to 1 with modified requirements of the Code of Points. This competitions end on national level. For high-performans athletes and the junior there are several compulsory and optional requirements defined by age (age class exercises). They are existing from age of 6 up to the age of 18.\n\nThe FIG imposes a minimum age limit on gymnasts competing in international meets. The term senior, in gymnastics, refers to any world-class or elite gymnast who is age-eligible under FIG rules. The term junior refers to any gymnast who competes at a world-class or elite level, but is too young to be classified as a senior. Currently, female gymnasts must be at least sixteen years of age, or turning sixteen within the calendar year, the male 18, to be classified as a senior. Juniors are judged under the same \"Code of Points\" as the seniors, but with further restrictions, and often exhibit the same level of difficulty in their routines.\n\nMany meets, such as the European Championships, have separate divisions for juniors, but some competitions, such as the Goodwill Games, the Pan Am Games, the Pacific Rim Championships and the All-Africa Games, have rules that permit seniors and juniors to compete together.\n\nOnly senior gymnasts are allowed to compete in the Olympics, World Championships and World Cup circuit. For the current Olympic cycle, in order to compete in the 2016 Olympics, a female gymnast must have a birthdate before January 1, 2001 (corresponding to an age of at least 15 years and 8 months on the first day of the games), the counterpart gender must be minimum 18 years old. There is no maximum age restriction.\n\nThe minimum age requirement is arguably one of the most contentious rules in artistic gymnastics, and is frequently debated by coaches, gymnasts and other members of the gymnastics community. Those in favor of the age limits argue that they promote the participation of older athletes in the sport, and that they spare younger gymnasts from the stress of competition and training at a high level. Opponents of the rule point out that junior gymnasts are scored under the same \"Code of Points\" as the seniors, except for some restrictions, and train mostly the same skills. They also feel that younger gymnasts need the experience of participating in major meets in order to become better athletes; and that if a junior has the skills and maturity to be competitive with seniors, he or she should be allowed that opportunity.\n\nAnother point that frequently arises in this debate is the issue of age falsification. Since stricter age limit rules were first adopted in the early 1980s, there have been several well-documented, and many more suspected, cases of juniors with falsified documents competing as seniors. The FIG has only taken disciplinary action in three cases: those of Kim Gwang-Suk of North Korea, who competed at the 1989 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships at the approximate age of eleven; North Korean Hong Su-jong, who competed under three different birth dates in the 2000s, and China's Dong Fangxiao, who competed at the 2000 Olympics when she was two years below the age minimum.\n\nWhile the minimum age requirement applies to both women and men, it is far more contentious in the women's program. Most top male gymnasts are in their late teens or early twenties, while female gymnasts are typically ready to compete at the international level by their mid-teens. The difference is largely due to the fact that the men's skills tend to emphasize strength more than the women's skills.\n\nScoring at the international level is regulated by the \"Code of Points\". This system was significantly overhauled for 2006. Under the new Code of Points, there are two different panels judging each routine, evaluating different aspects of the performance. The D score covers Difficulty Value, Element Group Requirements and Connection Value; the E score covers execution, composition and artistry. The most visible change to the Code was the abandonment of the \"Perfect 10\" for an open-ended scoring system for difficulty (the D score). The E score is still limited to a maximum of 10. The sum of the two provides a gymnast's total score for the routine. Theoretically this means scores could be infinite, although average marks for routines in major competitions in 2016 generally stayed in the mid-teens.\n\nMany gymnasts, including Nadia Comăneci, Mary Lou Retton, Josef Stalder, and Kurt Thomas, have attributed their original skills to the Table of Elements section of the Code that helps define a routine's difficulty.\n\nBefore 2006, every routine was assigned a Start Value (SV). A routine with maximum SV performed perfectly was worth a 10.0. A routine with all required elements was automatically given a base SV (9.4 in 1996; 9.0 in 1997; 8.8 in 2001). It was up to the gymnast to increase the SV to 10.0 by performing difficult skills and combinations.\n\nMany gymnastics insiders, coaches, officials and gymnasts have protested the new Code, with Olympic gold medalists Lilia Podkopayeva, Svetlana Boguinskaya, Shannon Miller and Vitaly Scherbo and Romanian team coach Nicolae Forminte publicly voicing their opposition. In addition, the 2006 report from the FIG Athletes' Commission cited major concerns about scoring, judging and other points of the new Code. Aspects of the Code were revised in 2007; however, there are no plans to abandon the new scoring system and return to the 10.0 format.\n\n\n\nMost countries hold a major competition (National Championships, or \"Nationals\") every year that determines the best-performing all-around gymnasts and event specialists in their country. Gymnasts may also qualify to their country's national team or be selected for international meets based on their scores at Nationals.\n\nUSSR/The Unified Team/Russia/Ukraine/Belarus/Armenia: Before the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, Soviet gymnasts dominated both men's and women's gymnastics, commencing with the introduction of the full women's program into the Olympics and the overall increased standardization of the Olympic gymnastics competition format which happened in 1952. Soviet Union's success might be explained by a heavy state's investment in sports to fulfil its political agenda on an international stage. They had many male stars, such as Olympic all-around champions Viktor Chukarin and Vitaly Scherbo, and female stars, such as Olympic all-around champion Larisa Latynina and World all-around and Olympic champion Svetlana Boginskaya who contributed to this tradition. From 1952 to 1992 inclusive, the Soviet women's squad won almost every single team title in World Championship competition and at the Summer Olympics: the only four exceptions were the 1984 Olympics, which they did not attend, and the 1966, 1979, and 1987 World Championships. Most of the famous Soviet gymnasts were from the Russian SFSR, the Ukrainian SSR and the Byelorussian SSR.\nFollowing the breakup of the Soviet Union, they competed together as one nation for the last time at the 1992 Summer Olympics as a \"Unified Team,\" winning the gold. Russia has maintained the tradition of gymnastics excellence, medaling at every Worlds and Olympic competition in both MAG and WAG disciplines, except in the 2008 Olympics, where the Russian women's team did not win any medals. Ukraine also has a strong team; Ukrainian Lilia Podkopayeva was the all-around champion at the 1996 Olympics. Belarus has maintained a strong men's team. Other former republics have been somewhat less successful.\nIn terms of medal results and overall domination, the Soviet legacy remains the strongest of all in artistic gymnastics.\n\nRomania: The Romanian team first achieved wide-scale success at the 1976 Summer Olympics with the tremendous performance of Nadia Comăneci. Since then, using the centralized training system pioneered by Béla Károlyi, they have been a dominant force in both team and individual events in WAG. With the exception of the defeat of the Soviet women's team by the Czechoslovakian women's team at the 1966 World Championships, Romania was the only team ever to defeat the Soviets in head-to-head competition at the World Championships/Olympic level with their victories at the 1979 and 1987 Worlds. Their women's teams have also won team medals at every Olympics from 1976 to 2012 inclusive, including three victories in 1984, 2000, and 2004. At the 16 World Championships from 1978 to 2007 inclusive, the women's team failed to medal only twice (in 1981 and 2006) and has won the team title seven times, including five victories in a row (1994–2001). From 1976 to 2000, they placed notable gymnasts such as Daniela Silivaş, Lavinia Miloşovici, and Simona Amânar on the Olympic all-around podium at every Olympics, and have usually done the same for the individual events at the World Championships through 2015, producing World all-around champions Aurelia Dobre and Maria Olaru. The Romanian men's program, while less successful, is still maturing and producing individual medalists such as Marian Drăgulescu and Marius Urzică at World and Olympic competitions, and they have started winning team medals as well. The Romanian women's team failed to qualify for the 2016 Summer Olympics, but they may send one individual gymnast.\n\nUnited States: While isolated American gymnasts, including Kurt Thomas and Cathy Rigby, won medals in World Championship meets in the 1970s, the United States team was largely considered a \"second power\" until the mid- to late 1980s, when American gymnasts began medaling consistently in major, fully attended competitions. In 1984, the Olympic men's team won the gold. The team included Tim Daggett, Peter Vidmar, Mitch Gaylord, Bart Conner, Scott Johnson, Jim Hartung, and the team alternate Jim Mikus. Also in 1984, Mary Lou Retton became the first American Olympic all-around champion and won individual medals as well. In 1991, Kim Zmeskal became the first American world all-around champion. At the 1992 Olympics, the American women won their first team medal (bronze), as well as their highest all-around ranking, a silver medal by Shannon Miller, in a fully attended Games. In men's gymnastics, Trent Dimas was able to capture the gold medal on the horizontal bar. This was the second time that an American gymnast, male or female, won a gold medal in an Olympics held outside the United States. The U.S. women's team has become increasingly successful in the modern era, with the 1996 Olympic team victory of the Magnificent Seven in Atlanta, the 2003 Worlds team victory in Anaheim, California, and multiple-medal hauls in both WAG and MAG at the 2004 Olympics. At the 2012 Olympics and 2016 Olympics, the U.S. won the team gold. The United States has produced individual gymnasts such as Olympic all-around champions Carly Patterson (2004), Nastia Liukin (2008), Gabby Douglas (2012), and Simone Biles (2016), and world all-around champions Kim Zmeskal (1991), Shannon Miller (1993, 1994), Chellsie Memmel (2005), Shawn Johnson (2007), Bridget Sloan (2009), Jordyn Wieber (2011), Simone Biles (2013, 2014, 2015, 2018), and Morgan Hurd (2017). Of particular note is that at the 2005 World Championships in Melbourne, American women won the gold and silver the all-around and went 1–2 in every single event final except vault (in which they placed third). They continue to be one of the most dominant forces in the sport. The men's team has also matured, making the medal podium at both the 2004 and 2008 Olympics; they also made the podium at the 2003 and 2011 World Championships. Paul Hamm, the most successful U.S. male gymnast, became the first American to win the world all-around title in 2003. He followed this up by winning the gold medal at the 2004 Olympic Games. 2010 world all-around bronze medalist Jonathan Horton captured the silver medal on the horizontal bar at the 2008 Olympic Games, and Danell Leyva won the all-around bronze medal at the 2012 Olympic Games, as well as two silver medals (parallel bars and high bar) at the 2016 Olympics.\n\nChina has developed strong, successful programs in both WAG and MAG over the past 25 years, earning both team and individual medals. The Chinese men's team won the team gold at the 2000 Olympics, 2008 Olympics, and every team world championship since 1994, except in 2001, when they placed fifth. They have produced such individual gymnasts as Olympic (and world) all-around champions Li Xiaoshuang (1996) and Yang Wei (2008). The Chinese women's team won the team gold medal at the 2006 World Championships and the 2008 Olympics, and has produced individual gymnasts such as Olympic, world and World Cup champions Mo Huilan, Kui Yuanyuan, Yang Bo, Ma Yanhong, Cheng Fei, Sui Lu, Huang Huidan, Yao Jinnan and Fan Yilin. Chinese female Olympic individual gold medalists include Ma Yanhong, Lu Li, Liu Xuan, He Kexin, and Deng Linlin. Though for many years considered a two-event team (uneven bars and balance beam), they have developed and continue to develop successful all-around gymnasts, such as Olympic all-around bronze medalists, Liu Xuan, Zhang Nan and Yang Yilin. However, like the former USSR, they have been plagued by some Western media reports relating to their grueling and sometimes cruel training methods and age falsification accusations.\n\nJapan was largely dominant in MAG during the 1960s and 1970s, winning every Olympic team title from 1960 through 1976 thanks to individual gymnasts such as Olympic all-around champions Sawao Kato and Yukio Endo. Several innovations pioneered by Japanese gymnasts during this era have remained in the sport, including the Tsukahara vault. Japanese male gymnasts have re-emerged as a team to reckon with since winning a team gold at the 2004 Olympics. Six-time world champion and Two-time Olympic All-around gold medalist Kohei Uchimura is widely considered to be the best all-around gymnast ever. The women have been less successful, but there have been such standouts as Olympic and world medalist Keiko Tanaka Ikeda, who competed in the 1950s and 1960s. There have also been some emerging talents in recent years, such as Koko Tsurumi, Rie Tanaka, Yuka Tomita, Natsumi Sasada, Yuko Shintake, Asuka Teramoto, Sae Miyakawa, Hitomi Hatakeda and Mai Murakami who did provide the women's team with talent worthy of placing in the top teams at the last championships and Olympics. They also have been winning world individual medals, Tsurumi's all-around bronze and bars silver at 2009 and Murakami's floor gold at 2017, the first Japanese gold since Keiko Tanaka.\n\nThe German Democratic Republic, or East Germany, had an extremely successful gymnastics program before the reunification of Germany. Both the MAG and WAG teams frequently won silver or bronze team medals at the World Championships and Olympics. Male gymnasts such as Andreas Wecker and Roland Brückner and female gymnasts such as Maxi Gnauck and Karin Janz contributed to their country's success. In spite of the fact that they weren't as successful as East Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany had international stars too, like Eberhard Gienger, Willi Jaschek or Helmut Bantz. Since the reunification of Germany, they have continued to have a measure of success with such gymnasts as Fabian Hambüchen, Philipp Boy, and Marcel Nguyen, the former Soviet/Uzbek gymnast Oksana Chusovitina who competed for Germany during some years and Pauline Schäfer.\n\nThe Czechoslovakian women's team had a very long tradition of success and was the chief threat to the dominance of the Soviet women's team for decades. They won team medals at every World Championships and Olympics from 1934 to 1970, with the exceptions of the 1950 Worlds and 1956 Olympics. Among their leaders were the first women's world all-around champion, Vlasta Děkanová (1934, 1938) and Věra Čáslavská, who won outright all five European, World and Olympic all-around titles during an Olympic cycle from 1964 to 1968—a feat never matched by any other gymnast, male or female. Čáslavská also led her teammates to the world team title in 1966, making the Czechoslovakians one of two national teams (Romania being the other) ever to defeat the Soviet women's team at a major competition. Their men's success came earlier and was concurrent with the success of Dekanova, but by the time of Caslavska, they had no significant male counterparts among the men for their women. Their overall success, however, at the World Artistic Gymnastics Championships was the greatest of any country prior to World War II in terms of being first in the medal table more than any other country and winning the most team titles of any team during the pre-WWII period. Also, as Czechoslovakia, or in their pre World War I nationhood as the Austro-Hungarian constituent Bohemia, they produced 4 different Men's World All Around Champions: Josef Cada in 1907, Ferdinand Steiner in 1911, Frantisek Pechacek in 1922, and Jan Gajdos in 1938. Perhaps their most decorated athlete, overall, was Ladislav Vacha who won a total of 10 individual medals at the Olympics and World Championships – moreso than any other of their athletes.\n\nAnother Eastern Bloc country whose women achieved notable results was Hungary. Led by individuals such as 10-time Olympic medalist (with five golds) Ágnes Keleti, their team medaled at the first four Olympics with women's artistic gymnastics competitions (1936–1956), as well as at the 1954 World Championships. Their women's program went into a decline with minor occasional success, although much later, during the late 1980s and early 1990s, world and Olympic Vault champion Henrietta Ónodi put them back on the map. Their men never had quite the same level of success as their women, although Zoltán Magyar dominated the pommel horse event during the 1970s, winning eight (of a possible nine) European, World and Olympic titles from 1973–1980. World and Olympic champion on rings, Szilveszter Csollány, also kept Hungary on the medal platform at major competitions for a decade starting in the early 1990s. In more recent years, Krisztián Berki has won World and Olympic titles on the Pommel Horse.\n\nSeveral other nations were at one time or have become in recent years serious contenders in both WAG and MAG. Part of the rise of the success of various countries' programs in recent years is attributable to the exodus of lots of talent from the USSR and other former Eastern Bloc countries. South Korea, Canada, Spain, Greece, Australia, Brazil, France, Italy and Great Britain are among the other countries to have produced world and Olympic medalists and have started winning team medals at the European, World and Olympic level.\n\nArtistic gymnastics carries inherently high risk of spinal and other injuries. Eating disorders can also be quite common, especially in women's gymnastics when gymnasts are motivated and sometimes pushed by coaches to maintain a lower than normal bodyweight.\n\n"}
{"id": "21589526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21589526", "title": "Bacolod Arts &amp; Youth Sports Center", "text": "Bacolod Arts &amp; Youth Sports Center\n\nThe Bacolod Arts and Youth Sports Center (BAYS Center) is a multi-use gym located in Bacolod, fronting the Bacolod Public Plaza, in Negros Occidental, Philippines. It is used mostly for basketball, karatedo and boxing matches, and was used in events in the city like the MassKara Festival activities and other government related activities like seminars, business and political gatherings. \n\nIt was the venue of the UMA-ONEBA and NOKAF Championships in which the Western Visayas athletes participated in sporting events. \n\nThe gym has a seating capacity of more than a thousand. It is officially designated as the COMELEC tally headquarters for both local and national election in the Philippines.\n\nAside from the gym, it also serves as offices of the departments of the city and also serves as cultural facilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4094179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4094179", "title": "Benedetti–Wehrli Stadium", "text": "Benedetti–Wehrli Stadium\n\nBenedetti–Wehrli Stadium is a stadium in Naperville, Illinois. It is primary used for American football and soccer. The stadium hosted the 2000 NCAA Division III Men's Outdoor Track and Field Championship. The stadium opened in 1999 for North Central College and was used by the Chicago Fire in 2002 and 2003, when it was known as \"Cardinal Stadium\". Benedetti–Wehrli Stadium is named after two North Central College Alumni/Donors: Albert Benedetti and Richard Wehrli. Benedetti-Wehrli also hosts the two highly hyped football games of Naperville Central High School - Naperville North High School and Waubonsie Valley High School-Neuqua Valley High School. The stadium also serves as host to a competitive drum corps show hosted by The Cavaliers Drum and Bugle Corps of Rosemont, Ill., each summer. The stadium has a capacity of 5,500. The stadium served as a venue for the quarter finals of the 2000 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup.\n\nIn 2018, the stadium became the home field for the Chicago Wildfire of the American Ultimate Disc League.\n"}
{"id": "7750130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7750130", "title": "Bolivia at the 1988 Winter Olympics", "text": "Bolivia at the 1988 Winter Olympics\n\nBolivia competed at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29281774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29281774", "title": "Castrol Six Hour (New Zealand)", "text": "Castrol Six Hour (New Zealand)\n\nThe New Zealand Castrol Six Hour Race was an endurance motorcycle race that was held for fifteen years at Manfeild, Palmerston North from 1974 to 1988. Many of New Zealand's top international riders competed at the Six Hour race; winners included Dave Hiscock (5-time winner), Neil Chivas (4-time winner), Graeme Crosby (3-time winner), Aaron Slight (2-time winner), and Ginger Molloy (first winner). The race was characterised by its exclusive use of unmodified standard production motorcycles and a running start where the racers had to run to their machines before they could start. There was special provisions that the machines were no older than 3 years old, which was a boon to the motorcycle industry in New Zealand at the time which saw a dramatic rise in the sale of Motorcycles after these events. \n\n"}
{"id": "7814206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7814206", "title": "Chinese Taipei at the 2002 Winter Olympics", "text": "Chinese Taipei at the 2002 Winter Olympics\n\nDue to the political status of Taiwan, the Republic of China (ROC) competed as Chinese Taipei at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, United States. The International Olympic Committee mandates that the Chinese Taipei Olympic Committee flag is used, and not the flag of the Republic of China.\nIn the People's Republic of China (PRC), the team is known as \"Zhongguo Taibei\" (中国台北队) or, \"Taipei, China\", where \"China\" implies the PRC.\n\n"}
{"id": "28753176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28753176", "title": "Crystal Palace Park Cricket Ground", "text": "Crystal Palace Park Cricket Ground\n\nCrystal Palace Park Cricket Ground was a cricket ground in Crystal Palace in south-east London. It was located in Crystal Palace Park in the shadow of The Crystal Palace. The ground was established on 3 June 1857 and used for first-class cricket between 1864 and 1906.\n\nThe site of the ground was part of the county of Kent when it was first established and it was initially used by Kent County Cricket Club in the 1860s before becoming the main ground for London County Cricket Club between 1900 and 1904. The site of the ground is now in the London Borough of Bromley and forms part of the Crystal Palace National Sports Centre.\n\nThe cricket ground at Crystal palace was laid out in 1857 as part of the development of The Crystal Palace itself which had opened in 1854. An site was used and the ground became the home of Crystal Palace Cricket Club – prior to the development of the site the general location had been used as a ground by Sydenham Cricket Club. The club played at the ground until 1900 when they were subsumed into the newly formed London County team.\n\nThe first recorded first-class cricket match on the ground was in 1864, when Kent County Cricket Club played Nottinghamshire. From 1869 to 1870, Kent played four further first-class matches at the ground, two in each season. The club has a tradition of playing cricket at grounds in what it terms \"Metropolitan Kent\". Grounds in nearby Beckenham, Blackheath, Catford and Dartford have all also been used by the club in the past for a total of more than 150 matches and the first match played by the county club after its foundation in 1842 was played at White Hart Field in Bromley.\n\nTen years passed before first-class cricket returned to Crystal Palace, when in 1880 the Players played the touring Australians at the ground. In 1888 an England XI played another touring Australian side and three further first-class matches took place on the ground from 1890 to 1900.\n\nIn 1898, the Crystal Palace Company formed London County Cricket Club after offering W.G. Grace the roles of the club's secretary, manager and captain. Grace accepted the offer and his 29-year association with Gloucestershire ended as a result of the conflicts between the new club and his county side. London County played their first first-class match at the ground in 1900 against Surrey. From 1900 to 1904 the team played 34 first-class matches at Crystal Palace, the last of which saw them play Warwickshire in August 1904. The increase in the importance of the County Championship, Grace's decline in form due to age and the lack of a competitive element in the matches led to a decline in attendances and meant that the team lost money, with the club winding up in 1908.\n\nThe Gentlemen of England used the ground for three first-class matches in 1905 against a touring Australian side, Oxford University and Cambridge University and in 1906 a WG Grace's XI played the touring West Indians and Cambridge University.\n\nDuring World War I the ground and surrounding ornamental gardens were used as a training depot by the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve. This largely destroyed the cricket pitch and after the war the original cricket field was used as tennis courts from 1921 and then for football pitches. The pavilion was demolished in 1960 and the site today forms part of the Crystal Palace National Sports Centre, which was built in 1964. Facilities include an athletics stadium, indoor arena, swimming pool and a range of other sports facilities.\n\nA cricket ground was re-established on the site in the early 1990s and cricket is played on the site.\n\nA total of 48 first-class cricket matches were held on the ground between 1864 and 1906. London County were the home team in 34 of these with Kent playing as the home side in five. The two teams never played each other at Crystal Palace.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42017413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42017413", "title": "Democratic Republic of the Congo at the Paralympics", "text": "Democratic Republic of the Congo at the Paralympics\n\nDemocratic Republic of the Congo first competed at the Paralympic Games in 2012, at the Summer Games in London, sending two wheelchair athletes to compete in track and field events. \n\nThe D.R. Congo has never taken part in the Winter Paralympic Games, and no athlete from this country has ever won a Paralympic medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "4973475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4973475", "title": "Estadio Charrúa", "text": "Estadio Charrúa\n\nEstadio Charrúa is a multi-use stadium in the Carrasco neighborhood of Montevideo, Uruguay used mostly for football and rugby union matches. It is currently leased to the Uruguayan Rugby Union, governing body of that sport in the country, which uses it for its headquarters, its high performance training center, and as the regular home of its national teams, most notably the senior men's team. The stadium holds about 14,000 people. It was built in 1984 and then, in 2006 was re-built thanks to a FIFA project called GOAL.\n\n"}
{"id": "8000247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8000247", "title": "Eswatini national rugby union team", "text": "Eswatini national rugby union team\n\nThe Eswatini national rugby union team represent Eswatini in the sport of rugby union. They are ranked as a tier-three nation by the International Rugby Board (IRB). Swaziland have thus far not qualified for a Rugby World Cup, but have competed in qualifying tournaments.\n\nIn September 2001 Swaziland played in the African qualification tournaments for the 2003 Rugby World Cup in Australia. They lost their first match, in Pool B of Round 1, losing to Botswana. They lost to Madagascar in their second game.\n\nSwaziland participated in the African qualifying tournament for the 2007 Rugby World Cup, playing in the Southern Pool of Round 1a, along with Zambia and Botswana. Swaziland won their first fixture, defeating Zambia by one point, 24 to 23. However they lost their second game 19-12 to Botswana, and finished third in the final standings on points difference.\n\nTheir Test match record against all nations, updated to 4 July 2015, is as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1489076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1489076", "title": "Expo Hall", "text": "Expo Hall\n\nExpo Hall is an indoor arena located at the Florida State Fairgrounds in Tampa, Florida. It is used primarily as an exhibition hall during the Florida State Fair, but has also hosted concerts and sporting events.\n\nThe Tampa Bay Rowdies of the defunct North American Soccer League used Expo Hall for 8 of their 16 home games during the 1983–84 indoor season. At that time the arena's capacity was 9,200. This would also prove to be the league's final indoor campaign before suspending operations following the 1984 outdoor season.\n\nThe arena was more famously used by the National Hockey League's Tampa Bay Lightning during the team's inaugural season of 1992-1993. The facility's seating capacity of 10,425 proved too small for the Lightning, and the team relocated to the ThunderDome in St. Petersburg for three seasons, until their permanent home, Amalie Arena, was built in downtown Tampa.\n\nIn 1994 the expansion Tampa Bay Tritons of Roller Hockey International played for one season at Expo Hall before folding. Mark Messier was the owner of the club.\n\nNoteworthy entertainers to perform in concert at Expo Hall include Robert Plant, REO Speedwagon, Cheap Trick, No Doubt, Green Day, Nine Inch Nails, Peter Frampton, Stone Temple Pilots, Yes, George Michael, Santana, Beastie Boys, Alabama, Motörhead\n\n"}
{"id": "31523765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31523765", "title": "FC Kant-Oil", "text": "FC Kant-Oil\n\nFC Kant-Oil is a Kyrgyzstani football club based in Kant, Kyrgyzstan.\n\n\nAfter the 1996 season, Kant-Oil were disbanded.\n\n\nKyrgyzstan Cup:\n\n"}
{"id": "4415647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4415647", "title": "Fiji at the 2006 Commonwealth Games", "text": "Fiji at the 2006 Commonwealth Games\n\nFiji was represented at the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne.\n\n"}
{"id": "15133501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15133501", "title": "Float tube", "text": "Float tube\n\nA float tube, also known as a belly boat or kick boat, is a small, lightweight inflatable fishing craft which anglers use to fish from. They were originally doughnut-shaped boats with an underwater seat in the \"hole\", but modern designs include a V-shape with pontoons on either side and the seat raised above the water allowing the legs of the angler to be the only part of his body to be submerged. Float tubes are used for many aspects of fishing, such as flyfishing for trout or lure fishing for largemouth bass, and enable the angler to fish areas otherwise not fishable from the bank.\n\nFloat tubes are either \"U\", \"V\"-shaped, or circular. A standard float tube consists of an inflated bladder inside a sewn cover providing the seat, reserve air compartments, and tackle storage pockets. Many float tube anglers customize their crafts with rod holders, lights, and electronic fish finders.\n\nThe angler generally wears stocking foot chest waders and scuba diving flippers, so his legs remain dry. Seated in the float tube, he paddles across the water with a gentle movement of the flippers, then remains still over the chosen fishing ground. An alternative to diving flippers is the \"paddle-pusher\", or \"duck fins.\" These fins strap onto the angler's feet and have paddles situated on the outsides of the ankles. The paddles fold back when the leg moves forward and open when the leg moves back, allowing anglers to move forward in a somewhat less efficient but more natural walking-type motion.\n\nThe competitive side of float tubing for bass is growing in the US with the Sonoma County Belly Boat Bass Club which was the first of its kind and is by far the largest in the world and in South Africa with The Bass Challenge which offers a tournament trail called the Kickboat Bass Challenge for bass anglers who compete from float tubes.\n\nAnglers fishing from a float tube should wear a personal flotation device (a requirement in some states), as float tubes are susceptible to punctures. Additionally, most manufacturers do not recommend using float tubes in moving waters, such as rivers or streams. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2999604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2999604", "title": "Frank Nasworthy", "text": "Frank Nasworthy\n\nFrank Nasworthy is notable in the history of skateboarding for introducing polyurethane wheel technology to the sport in the early 1970s.\n\nAfter graduating from Annandale High School in Northern Virginia in 1969, Nasworthy attended Virginia Tech for a year. Back with his family for the summer of 1970, he visited a plastics factory in Purcellville called Creative Urethane, owned by a friend’s father. The factory had experimented with a polyurethane roller skate wheel that was sold to Roller Sports Inc., which supplied wheels for rental skates at roller rinks. The rationale was that a softer wheel with improved grip would help novice roller skaters, but the wheel was largely rejected by roller skaters who favored the hard steel wheels that allowed for faster speeds on the wooden floors of the roller rinks.\n\nUp to this point, skateboards had also been manufactured with either the same steel wheels as rollerskates, or out of a clay composite – a combination of plastic, paper, and finely ground walnut shells. These wheels wore out far too quickly, in as little as seven or eight hours.\n\nNasworthy moved to Southern California in 1971 to surf, and noticed that kids were trying to skateboard when the surf was down. He thought the soft polyurethane wheels would be ideal for skateboards, and had his father send him 10 sets. Assembling them onto his skateboard, he discovered they allowed for a much smoother ride that was fast and controllable. Having realized the potential of a polyurethane skateboard wheel, Nasworthy invested $700, which he had accumulated working in a restaurant, and formed the Cadillac Wheels Company (on account of their smooth ride). Creative Urethane made the wheels to his specifications, and Nasworthy took his company to California in 1972.\n\nDue to the infancy of skateboarding at this time, Nasworthy sold his wheels directly to surf shops along the coast of California, and placed some tentative advertisements featuring a young Gregg Weaver in surfing magazines. News of the wheels initially spread by word of mouth, but the cumulative effect was a reawakening of skateboarding to the extent that, by 1975, scores of manufacturers had entered the market, a national magazine, Skateboarder, had re-formed and Nasworthy was selling 300,000 sets of wheels per year.\n\nNasworthy decided to license his wheels to Bahne and Co. of Encinitas, California and Bahne skateboards were packaged with Cadillac wheels. During 1975, the company reported sales of 10,000,000–20,000,000 skateboards per month. Nasworthy's association with Bahne led him to commission a series of paintings by poster artist Jim Evans that featured Cadillac Wheels. The posters, with titles like, \"From Out of the West\" and \"Accept No Substitutes\" came to represent the paradigm shift taking place in skateboarding.\n\nThis success did not last long, as Nasworthy’s innovation was soon overtaken by the introduction of a precision bearing skateboard wheel, the Road Rider. But Nasworthy’s discovery was the catalyst for the second skateboard boom. As a professional freestyle competitor at the time noted:\n\n"}
{"id": "39606275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39606275", "title": "Gold Coast Parklands", "text": "Gold Coast Parklands\n\nThe Gold Coast Parklands was a complex serving the grey hound and harness racing industries on the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia. It opened on 7 December 1988 on the corner of Smith Street and Parklands Drive, Southport on the Gold Coast, Queensland at a cost of nine million dollars.\n\nPlans to build the complex began in 1983 when the Racing Minister for Queensland, Mr Russell Hinze, visited the Gold Coast. He was reportedly disappointed by trotting and grey hound racing facilities at Owen Park, Southport. The decision was made to provide improved facilities at another location and State Government land and was selected opposite Griffith University.\nThe complex was managed by the Parklands Trust and was the home for a number of organisations including the Gold Coast Show Society, Gold Coast Greyhound Racing the Parklands Indoor Sports Centre and the Gold Coast Harness Racing Club.\nBetween 1993 and 2013 it was also the venue for the annual Big Day Out concert.\nIn 2007, The State Government announced plans to build a new hospital adjacent to the complex.\nThis resulted in the departure of Gold Coast Greyhound Racing from Parklands in 2009.\nOn 1 February 2013 the remaining part of the site was formally designated as the athletes' village for the 2018 Commonwealth Games and was declared a Priority Development Area (PDA) by the Government of Queensland.\nIn August 2013 a call for stories, memories and photographs from the community to commemorate the history of Parklands was launched. These stories and ephemera relating to the complex were donated to the City of Gold Coast Local Studies Library.\n\nDemolition of the buildings on the site commenced in late 2013 and in December 2013 Grocon won the contract to build the village.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25106212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25106212", "title": "Golden Spirit Award", "text": "Golden Spirit Award\n\nThe Golden Spirit Award is given annually to the Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) player who \"best exemplifies the game of baseball, sportsmanship, community involvement and the individual's contribution to his team\", as voted on by members of the media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3566794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3566794", "title": "Haiti at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Haiti at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nHaiti competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nMen's 100 metres\n\nMen's 200 metres\n\nMen's Marathon\n\nMen's Half-Lightweight (– 65 kg)\n\nMen's Lightweight (– 71 kg)\n\nMen's Half-Middleweight (– 78 kg)\n\nMen's Middleweight (– 86 kg)\n\nMen's Half-Heavyweight (– 95 kg)\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "5086281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5086281", "title": "Honjo Athletic Stadium", "text": "Honjo Athletic Stadium\n\nIt is the designated home stadium for Giravanz Kitakyushu (formerly known as New Wave Kitakyushu until 2009 season), an association football club promoted to J. League from 2010 season. It underwent a major renovation which lasted until 2010 to install benches on the grass-covered spectator area to meet the minimum requirements of 10,000-seatings which J. League organization requires all J2 clubs to have their own stadia. Now its capacity is 10,202.\n\nIt will host an international match between Japan and Saudi Arabia on 16 December 2014.\n\nIt was the venue for Japan versus Tonga in the inaugural IRB Pacific 5 Nations rugby union tournament on June 4, 2006. The game celebrated the recent opening on March 16, 2006, of the New Kitakyushu Airport and was the first test match to be played in Kyūshū in 22 years. Some 8,100 spectators saw the game in a nearly full stadium.\n\nTogether with Sayagatani stadium in Tobata ward, Honjo stadium hosted the All Japan rugby clubs championship on January 13 and 14, 2008.\n\nOn December 5, 2009, the first Top League game ever held in Kitakyushu was played here. Coca Cola West Red Sparks beat Ricoh Black Rams 29-22.\n\nThe nearest railway station is Honjō Station and Futajima Station on the Chikuhō Main Line, 15 minutes walk away. The Kitakyushu City Buses line No. 30 from Orio Station takes about ten minutes to the stadium and costs 230 yen. Kitakyushu City Buses runs shuttle buses between the stadium and Orio Station when Giravanz plays home games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67671", "title": "International Paralympic Committee", "text": "International Paralympic Committee\n\nThe International Paralympic Committee (IPC; ) is an international non-profit organisation and the global governing body for the Paralympic Movement. The IPC organizes the Paralympic Games and functions as the international federation for nine sports. Founded on 22 September 1989 in Düsseldorf, Germany, its mission is \"To enable Paralympic athletes to achieve sporting excellence and inspire and excite the world\". Furthermore, the IPC wants to promote the Paralympic values and to create sport opportunities for all persons with a disability, from beginner to elite level.\n\nThe IPC has a democratic constitution and structure and is composed of representatives from 176 National Paralympic Committees (NPCs), four international organizations of sport for the disabled (IOSDs) and five regional organizations. The IPC's headquarters is located in Bonn, Germany.\n\nOn the basis of being able to organize the Paralympic Games more efficiently and to give the Paralympic Movement one voice, the four international organizations combined under the IOSD founded the International Co-ordination Committee of World Sports Organizations for the Disabled (ICC) in 1982. In the upcoming years, other organizations joined and the need for a democratically guided organization emerged, demanded by the nations participating in the Paralympic Movement. They desired a democratic structure, to improve national and regional representation, which led to the foundation of the IPC as it is known today. The 1994 Winter Paralympics, Norway, were the first to be organized by the IPC.\n\nThe IPC functions as an umbrella organization, representing several sports and disabilities, in contrast to other international sports organizations for athletes with a disability, which are predominantly limited to a single sport or disability.\n\nThe word \"Paralympic\" derives from the Greek preposition \"para\" (\"beside\" or \"alongside\"). and \"Olympics\". The first connotation connected to the syllable \"para\" was paralysis or paraplegia. But since the Paralympics cover different disability groups and the close association to the Olympic Movement, \"para\" underlines the existence of both movements side by side.\n\nA fifteen-member Governing Board oversees the IPC between meetings of the General Assembly. Dr. Robert D. Steadward became the first President in 1989. Since 2017, Andrew Parsons is President of the IPC.\n\nThe number of athletes and nations participating in the Paralympic Games and thus being part of the Paralympic Movement is constantly increasing, along with the audience. Sport for persons with a disability is growing on a national and international level.\n\nThe International Paralympic Committee has had three presidents to date. Its founding president, who presided it from 1989 to 2001, was the Canadian Robert Steadward, who had previously founded the Canadian Sports Fund for the Physically Disabled. He was succeeded in 2001 by Philip Craven, a British Paralympian and former President of the International Wheelchair Basketball Federation, who served as President until 2017. Craven was succeeded by Brazil's Andrew Parsons, IPC Vice President from 2013 to 2017 and a former President of the Brazilian Paralympic Committee.\n\nThe IPC Governing Board consists of 14 members elected at the General Assembly, including the President and Vice President. Twelve members were elected on 8 September 2017 to four year teams:\n\nThe IPC Athletes' Council Chairperson, who has voting rights on the board, is Canadian goalball player Chelsea Gotell. Also on the board as co-opted member without vote is the IPC CEO Xavier Gonzalez (Spain).\n\nThe IPC has an honorary board of distinguished individuals who support the IPC's goals and use their profile to raise funds and awareness for its work.\n\nCurrent honorary board members are:\n\nChronology of milestones in the development of the International Paralympic Committee and the Summer and Winter Paralympics.\n\nThe IPC publishes \"The Paralympian\" three times a year.\n\nThe London 2012 Paralympics and other sport events related to the Paralympic Movement can be watched on the Internet TV channel for Paralympic Sports created by the IPC.\n\n\nIn June 2001, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) signed an agreement that would ensure that the staging of the Paralympic Games is automatically included in the bid for the Olympic Games. The agreement came into effect at the 2008 Paralympic Summer Games in Beijing, and the 2010 Paralympic Winter Games in Vancouver.\n\nHowever, the Salt Lake 2002 Organizing Committee (SLOC), chose to follow the practice of \"one bid, one city\" already at the 2002 Games in Salt Lake City, with one Organizing Committee for both Games, which was followed up by the 2004 Games in Athens and Beijing in 2008.\n\nThe agreement was adjusted in 2003. An extension was signed in June 2006. A further extension was signed in 2012, valid until 2020. In March 2018, a historic long-term extension was signed establishing a partnership until 2032.\n\nThe NPCs receive financial support for the training and development of Paralympic teams, Paralympic athletes and Paralympic hopefuls.\n\nThere are 11 international federations recognized by the IPC, and there are four disability specific organizations, while the IPC itself serves as the international federation for 10 sports.\n\nOn 30 November 2016, the IPC officially adopted the \"World Para\" brand for all sports in which it is the international federation. Sports contested in the Summer Paralympics began using the new branding immediately. For winter sports, whose competitive seasons had already started by the announcement, only the world championships were immediately changed to reflect the new branding; the full switchover did not occur until the 2017–18 season.\n\nSupervises and co-ordinates the World Para Alpine Skiing Championships and other competitions\n\nSupervises and co-ordinates the World Para Athletics Championships, World Para Athletics European Championships and other competitions\n\nSupervises and co-ordinates the World Para Dance Sport Championships and other competitions. The rebranding saw the sport renamed from \"wheelchair dance sport\" to \"Para dance sport\" due to the IPC's desire to expand the sport beyond wheelchair users.\n\nSupervises and co-ordinates the World Para Ice Hockey Championships and other competitions. With the November 2016 rebranding, the official name of the sport was changed from \"sledge hockey\" to \"Para ice hockey\". This change was made upon the request of the sport's community, partly due to the word \"sledge\" having different meanings across languages.\n\nSupervises and co-ordinates the World Para Nordic Skiing Championships and other competitions.\n\nSupervises and co-ordinates the World Para Powerlifting Championships and other competitions\n\nSupervises and co-ordinates the World Shooting Para Sport Championships and other competitions. The rebranding saw the sport renamed as \"shooting Para sport\" to avoid possible confusion with parachuting.\n\nSupervises and co-ordinates the World Para Snowboard Championships and other competitions.\n\nSupervises and co-ordinates the World Para Swimming Championships and other competitions\n\nNote that the Paralympic versions of some sports have different governing structures than the able-bodied versions of the same sports:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6855192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6855192", "title": "International Women's Boxing Federation", "text": "International Women's Boxing Federation\n\nThe IWBF (International Women's Boxing Federation) is one of the more recognized world championship fight sanctioning organizations in Women's boxing. The organization is based in Huntington, New York.\n\nThe IWBF was formed in 1992. It is presided by Frankie \"G\" Globuschutz.\n\n"}
{"id": "7137910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7137910", "title": "Javelina Stadium", "text": "Javelina Stadium\n\nJavelina Stadium is a stadium in Kingsville, Texas. It is primarily used for American football, and is the home field of Texas A&M University-Kingsville. The stadium holds 15,000 people and opened in 1950.\n\nA new scoreboard was installed during the 2006 football season. The scoreboard is the largest scoreboard in NCAA Division II. The scoreboard is 36 feet wide and 36 feet tall and stands 12 feet off the ground. The video display is over 15 feet tall and 20 feet wide. It features a three camera system and a fully functional production room located under the east side grandstand. It also features a new sound system.\n\nAs the home of the Javelinas, the stadium has seen Texas A&I win 7 National Championships in 1959, 1969, 1970, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1979. Also of note, the Javelinas achieved a 42-game winning streak - undefeated and untied from their last game of 1973 through the third game of 1977.\n\nIn addition to college football, the stadium serves as the home of Henrietta M. King High School's football team and often selected as a neutral site for high school football playoff games.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2011, it hosted the Cactus Bowl, an all-star game for NCAA Division II seniors.\n"}
{"id": "8334322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8334322", "title": "John Christgau", "text": "John Christgau\n\nJohn Frederick Christgau (February 11, 1934 – August 21, 2018) was an American author of fiction and non-fiction. \n\nChristgau was born in Crookston, Minnesota. He later moved to California, where he attended San Francisco State University. He taught at several high schools and coached Crestmoor High School's first varsity basketball team, in San Bruno, California. He lived in Belmont, California.\n\nHis books have dealt primarily with sports and American history. His book, \"Michael and the Whiz Kids\" (2013), is the story of Christgau's experiences as coach of a championship, lightweight basketball team that featured the first African American athlete in Crestmoor High School's history. This book was followed by \"Incident at the Otterville Station: A Civil War Story of Slavery and Rescue,\" the true story of the rescue of slaves that were to be shipped from Missouri to Kentucky, in defiance of federal laws.\n\nChristgau died following a heart attack on August 21, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "6871851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6871851", "title": "Katajanokan ympärijuoksu", "text": "Katajanokan ympärijuoksu\n\nKatajanokan ympärijuoksu (Skatudden runt in Swedish) is an annual running event in Katajanokka, Helsinki, Finland. It is open for everyone who lives in Katajanokka or has relatives living there.\n\nThe running event has several categories according to age and sex. Children have separate categories for boys and girls, and are divided into two or three age groups. Adults (which also allows teenagers) have only one category, but results are separate for men and women.\n\nThe length of the running varies according to category. Toddlers run once around the inside of a walled-in sporting field. Schoolchildren run around the entire sporting area, younger children once, older children twice. Adults and teenagers run around half of the entire Katajanokka district.\n\nThere are no monetary prizes for the event, but winners get medals, and the winner of the adults category gets a trophy. Results are also published in the annual \"Katajanokan kaiku\" magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "15832047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15832047", "title": "Krešimir Ćosić Hall", "text": "Krešimir Ćosić Hall\n\nKrešimir Ćosić Hall () is a multi-use indoor arena in Zadar, Croatia. Completed in May 2008, with an official seating capacity of 7,847 with 150 additional VIP seats, it is used mostly for team handball and basketball matches. It was used as one of the venues during the 2009 World Men's Handball Championship and home matches of KK Zadar. Also, the Croatia Davis Cup team has played at the arena for the 2008 Davis Cup World Group Play-offs and the 2016 Davis Cup World Group semifinals. The KK Zadar supporter group Tornado Zadar has their own section of the arena.\n\nAs of 3 October 2008, its official name became Krešimir Ćosić Hall, named after the legendary Croatian basketball player Krešimir Ćosić. Former names of the arena were Sportski centar Višnjik and Arena Zadar. The arena's nickname is \"Peka\". For several months during 2008, it was the largest indoor arena in Croatia, and now it is the third largest.\n\n"}
{"id": "34443697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34443697", "title": "MLS International Roster Slots", "text": "MLS International Roster Slots\n\nMLS International Roster Slots are an important piece of roster composition in Major League Soccer. MLS employs a variety of mechanisms to promote parity and domestic player development which include player entry drafts, expansion drafts, allocation drafts, weighted lotteries, and a limit on the number of international roster slots available for each club. The limit on the number of international roster slots makes each slot a valuable commodity for clubs to utilize through player signings or trades with other clubs.\n\nThe MLS roster rules for 2018 state:\n\nSource:\n\nKey\n"}
{"id": "4944312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4944312", "title": "Max-Schmeling-Halle", "text": "Max-Schmeling-Halle\n\nMax-Schmeling-Halle is a multi-purpose arena, in Berlin, Germany, named after the famous German boxer Max Schmeling. Apart from the Velodrom, it's one of Berlin's biggest indoor sports arenas and holds from 8,861 people, up to 12,000 people.\n\nThe opening ceremony happened on December 14, 1996, in the presence of Max Schmeling.\n\nThe Max-Schmeling-Halle is situated in the former border area of Berlin, near the Mauerpark and directly next to the Friedrich Ludwig Jahn Sportpark. It's situated at the Falkplatz, in the district Prenzlauer Berg (borough Pankow).\n\nPlanned for the 2000 Summer Olympics as a pure box gym, it was rebuilt (after the games were awarded to Sydney as the venue) to a multi-functional gym and is now primarily used for boxing and team handball and is the home arena of Füchse Berlin HBC and the Berlin Mini Basketball Tournament (berliner-mini-turnier.de).\n\nOn 9 May 2001, Irish vocal pop band Westlife held a concert for their Where Dreams Come True Tour supporting their album Coast to Coast.\n\nWorld Wrestling Entertainment was there twice, in April 2005 and 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "7823987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7823987", "title": "Nepal at the 1984 Summer Olympics", "text": "Nepal at the 1984 Summer Olympics\n\nNepal competed at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, United States.\n\nMen's 400 metres\n\nMen's 800 metres\n\nMen's Marathon\n\n"}
{"id": "27451981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27451981", "title": "Orleton Park", "text": "Orleton Park\n\nOrleton Park is a cricket ground in Wellington, Shropshire. The ground was established in 1891, when Shropshire played a non first-class match against Worcestershire.\n\nThe first Minor Counties Championship match played on the ground was in 1965 between Shropshire and Bedfordshire. From 1965 to 2001 hosted 36 Minor Counties matches, with the last being against Shropshire and Berkshire.\n\nIn 1979, the ground hosted its only first-class match to date between a combined Minor Counties team and the touring Indians.\n\nThe first List-A match played on the ground came in the 1974 Gillette Cup between Shropshire and Essex. From 1974 to 1999, the ground eight five List-A matches, the last of which came in the 1999 NatWest Trophy between Shropshire and the Hampshire Cricket Board.\n\nThe ground has also played host to two international matches. Firstly in the 1979 ICC Trophy between Denmark and Fiji and again between the same sides in the 1986 ICC Trophy.\n\nIn local domestic cricket, Orleton Park is the home ground of Wellington Cricket Club who play in the Birmingham and District Premier League.\n\n"}
{"id": "32831409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32831409", "title": "Pinelands United SC", "text": "Pinelands United SC\n\nPinelands United SC is a Barbados football club, based in Pinelands, a neighborhood within Bridgetown.\n\nThey play in the Barbados' first division, the Barbados Premier Division.\n\nDivision One Champions 2010\nKnockOut Champions 1987\n"}
{"id": "218362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218362", "title": "Pintail", "text": "Pintail\n\nPintail may refer to:\n\nA group of dabbling ducks containing:\n\nIn other animals:\n\nIn sports:\n\nIn other uses:\n\n"}
{"id": "54739420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54739420", "title": "Seychelles at the 2017 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "Seychelles at the 2017 World Championships in Athletics\n\nSeychelles competed at the 2017 World Championships in Athletics in London, United Kingdom, from 4–13 August 2017.\n"}
{"id": "4787548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4787548", "title": "Stade Gabriel Montpied", "text": "Stade Gabriel Montpied\n\nStade Gabriel Montpied is a multi-use stadium in Clermont-Ferrand, France. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Clermont Foot.\n\nIt was also the venue for the inaugural edition of the France Women's Sevens in the World Rugby Women's Sevens Series in 2016, and it hosted the 2017 Clermont-Ferrand Sevens, the third leg of the 2017 Rugby Europe Grand Prix series.\n\nThe stadium is able to hold 11,980 people and was built in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "5498179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5498179", "title": "Stade Léon-Bollée", "text": "Stade Léon-Bollée\n\nStade Léon-Bollée was a multi-purpose stadium in Le Mans, France. It is used mostly for football matches and was the home stadium of Le Mans UC72 until 2011, when it was replaced by MMArena. The stadium is able to hold 17,801 people and was built in 1906. \n"}
{"id": "5153709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5153709", "title": "Super Chexx", "text": "Super Chexx\n\nSuper Chexx® is a table hockey arcade game manufactured by Innovative Concepts in Entertainment, Inc. (ICE) from 1988 to 2017. ICE began manufacturing CHEXX bubble hockey in 1982 and it quickly became one of the top-earning bar and arcade games of the 1980s. Enhancements to the game were added and it was renamed Super Chexx in 1988 and it continued to be popular in bars and arcades and received national acclaim during the Bud Light Bubble Boys tournament series from 1999-2001. In November 2017 Super Chexx was replaced with the Super Chexx Pro edition using enhanced electronics featuring a 5\" LCD jumbotron and LED lighting. Super Chexx Pro is still made in the USA in Clarence, New York just outside Buffalo. These types of games are also known as bubble hockey, rod hockey, table hockey or dome hockey because of the long rods used to control the players and the distinctive dome or \"bubble\" covering the playing field.\n\nThe game can be played by two opposing players who control all five hockey players and the goalie for their side (singles) or as a two on two game (doubles). Players control their five skaters with long rods that move in and out to bring skaters up and down the ice and spin 360 degrees. A knob is used to move the goalie from side to side. Each player also a \"boo button\" to simulate sounds from the crowd.\n\nVintage versions of Super Chexx feature the USA vs. Russia, Canada vs. Russia, or USA vs. Canada formats. In 2010 ICE introduced a Deluxe Home version of the game with no coin doors and started offering NHL and AHL licensed team versions. There is also a 30th Anniversary \"Miracle on Ice\" Edition of the game featuring the classic USA vs CCCP teams licensed through USA Hockey. Licensed games feature team colors and logos with custom hand-painted players in replica jerseys.\n\nThe early versions of the game were made with blue bases, but most of the games are now made with red bases. The first black bases were made for a Bubble Boys Tournament with Wayne Gretzky and Bud Light in 1999. There was a limited edition of 100 games with black bases made in 2005. A further limited edition with the black base was made in 2007. The home version of the game has a base which can be split and hinged to fit through narrow doorways and comes in red or black.\n\nMany areas of the US have local fan sites and tournaments. Owners are known to customize their games with hand painted players representing their favorite NHL Teams (and players) and their rivals. As of the last 4 years, Labatt Blue has partnered with the AHL and run a tournament of champions. Each year, the venue is a different AHL city. So far It has been in Hershey PA, Albany NY, Utica NY, and this year Glens Falls NY. With 11 different AHL teams participating with 8 qualifiers, leading to an eventual 8 person tournament to win their team. The 11 winners all meet at the years Newest venue to settle who the champion will be. Considered the largest tournament ever, with over 1,000 players per year, Jeremy Davis has won twice, and Ken Dubois has won once. ICE organized an Official Super Chexx World Championship in 2010. 128 players entered - the tournament was won by John Gaffney of Burlington NJ, the official World Champion. Other tournaments are held locally throughout the United States and Canada each year. The KONY (later KONE) Tournaments were held annually from 2001 to 2005. NJbubblehockey.org ran tournaments from 2005 to 2014 and contributed to crowning a champion in the United States every year. The International Bubble Hockey Federation (IBHL) held a large national Super Chexx tournament in March 2006 with over 40 participants. This was at the time the largest tournament in Bubble Hockey history. The event was repeated on March 9–10 in 2007 with over 60 players competing over 2 days. Jeremy Davis of Milford CT was the winner and is considered the best bubble hockey player in the world (2014).\n\nIn a suit against ICE, the manufacturers of Super Chexx were not give TRADE DRESS for the white and black bubble hockey it was awarded to ASAA. The ASAA Bubble Hockey had thinner base to go through any door way and was slightly taller. The first NHL bubble hockey games designed in 1996 can still be found in use today at the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia.\n\n"}
{"id": "14984474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14984474", "title": "T. Davis (Hampshire cricketer)", "text": "T. Davis (Hampshire cricketer)\n\nT. Davis (first name, birth and death details unknown) refers to a noted amateur cricketer in the 18th century who made seven known appearances for Hampshire county cricket teams between 1773 and 1776 in the era of the Hambledon Club. The full span of his career is uncertain because he was almost certainly active before cricket's \"statistical record\" began in 1772. He was probably an early member of the Hambledon Club, believed to have been founded about 1765, but little is known of him apart from what can be gleaned from surviving scorecards.\n\nDavis was primarily a batsman who scored a known total of 115 runs in 11 innings with a highest score of 40. He has not been credited with any wickets. He took just 2 catches, which suggests he may have been an outfielder.\n\n"}
{"id": "46351678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46351678", "title": "The Third String (1914 film)", "text": "The Third String (1914 film)\n\nThe Third String is a 1914 British silent sports comedy film directed by George Loane Tucker and starring June Gail, Frank Stanmore and George Bellamy. The film is based on a short story of the same name by W.W. Jacobs, which was later turned into a 1932 film.\n\nA man poses as a boxer to impress a barmaid, but this leads to him being forced to fight a champion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4627230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4627230", "title": "True Blue: The Oxford Boat Race Mutiny", "text": "True Blue: The Oxford Boat Race Mutiny\n\nTrue Blue: The Oxford Boat Race Mutiny is a non-fiction book written by Dan Topolski and Patrick Robinson and published in 1989. It tells the story of the 1987 Oxford-Cambridge Boat Race and the disagreement amongst the Oxford crew known as the \"Oxford mutiny\". It won the William Hill Sports Book of the Year in 1989, the award's inaugural year.\n\nTopolski was Oxford's rowing coach, and the book describes his conflicts with the squad and principally five US international oarsmen who were enrolled that year at Oxford. Disagreements over training methods and crew selection ultimately led to the Americans leaving the crew shortly before the race. With a severely depleted crew, still suffering from the fall-out of the \"mutiny\", Oxford went on to beat Cambridge in the 1987 Boat Race.\n\nThe book, and the \"mutiny\" itself, continue to divide rowers even 29 years afterwards. British Olympic champion oarsman Martin Cross describes the book as \"... one of the most entertaining (if not wholly accurate) sports books ever written ...\", and refers to its treatment of one of the American \"mutineers\", Chris Clark, in the following terms: \"As character assassinations go, it is ruthless.\"\n\nAlison Gill, an Oxford oarswoman at the time of the \"mutiny\", wrote \"The Yanks at Oxford\", a book that attempted to counter the perceived bias in Topolski's account.\n\nThe Oxford University Boat Club president, Donald Macdonald, broke a 25-year silence to give his own account of the course of events in a 2012 newspaper interview.\n\n"}
{"id": "10023252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10023252", "title": "Uzbekistan Davis Cup team", "text": "Uzbekistan Davis Cup team\n\nThe Uzbekistan Davis Cup team represents Uzbekistan in Davis Cup tennis competition and is governed by the Uzbekistan Tennis Federation.\n\nUzbekistan currently compete in the Asia/Oceania Zone of Group I. They have never competed in the World Group, but reached the Play-offs on nine occasions (1998-2001, 2009, 2012 and 2014-2016).\n\nUzbekistan competed in its first Davis Cup in 1994. Uzbek players previously competed for the USSR.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32443994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32443994", "title": "Valonis Kadrijaj", "text": "Valonis Kadrijaj\n\nValonis Kadrijaj (; born 23 March 1992) is a German professional footballer who plays as a striker.\n\nHe holds both Serbian and Kosovo citizenship.\n\nBorn in Đakovica, SFR Yugoslavia, he moved with his family to Germany. Kadrijaj played youth football for FC Stern 1919 München and SpVgg Unterhaching. He made his senior debut for SpVgg Unterhaching during the 2010–11 season.\n"}
{"id": "19168758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19168758", "title": "Waivers (American football)", "text": "Waivers (American football)\n\nWaivers are a National Football League (NFL) labor management procedure by which a team makes an American football player's contract or NFL rights (such as NFL draft rights to an unsigned player) available to all other teams. During the season (starting July 4 and lasting through the regular season), each team has 24 hours to file a claim for a player that another team has made available through the system or waive the right to do so. During the off season each team has several days to file such claims. Claiming teams are assigned the rights to or contracts via a priority system based on inverse order of record. Players that pass through waivers unclaimed become free agents. Waiver claims are irrevocable.\n\nNFL clubs are prohibited from contacting waived players until the player has been released by the club after passing waivers.\n\n, at the conclusion of a season in which a veteran with four years of service is claimed via waivers, veterans with a no-trade clause in their contracts may declare themselves free agents. Any other veteran with four years of service can declare himself an free agent at the conclusion of the season after the season in which they were claimed on waivers if they remain under a claimed contract.\n\nA player who clears waivers and becomes a free agent is free to negotiate and sign a contract with any NFL club, and any NFL club is free to negotiate and sign a contract with such player. There is no penalty or restriction for signing a free agent who has cleared waivers. For example, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, and signing period restrictions are not applicable.\n"}
{"id": "41435817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41435817", "title": "Winnipeg Auditorium", "text": "Winnipeg Auditorium\n\nThe Winnipeg Auditorium was an indoor arena in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. It was the premier site for ice hockey in Winnipeg from the time of its construction in 1898. The Auditorium rink hosted several Stanley Cup championship series. It was located at the intersection of Garry Street and York Avenue. It was destroyed by fire in 1926.\n\nBy 1898, the sport of ice hockey had become popular as both a participation sport and spectator sport in Winnipeg. Until this time, most ice hockey had been played on the rinks of curling clubs in Winnipeg. The Auditorium was built at a cost of about $20,000. Construction was financed by a group of very prominent businessmen, among them E. L. Drewry, proprietor of the Redwood and Empire Brewery, F. W. Stobart of Stobart and Sons (dry goods), J. H. Ashdown of Ashdown's Hardware, and A. M. Nanton, partner in the financial firm of Osler, Hammond, and Nanton.\n\nThe wood structure held an ice surface measuring by , following the regulation size of the Victoria Rink in Montreal. The Auditorium could seat about 2000 spectators for hockey, plus standing room. Over the years it was renovated and expanded to hold over 3500. The facility also contained a coat check room, a ladies' room and four or five dressing rooms. In the basement, under the ice, were four bowling alleys.\n\nThe arena was used primarily for ice hockey but also hosted professional boxing until it was destroyed by fire in 1926. In 1931, a new \"Winnipeg Civic Auditorium\" was constructed. This was not a sports venue, but a music and theatre space. The Shea's Amphitheatre, constructed in 1909, seating 5000, served Winnipeg until the construction of the Winnipeg Arena in the 1950s.\n\nThe arena was used by the Manitoba Hockey Association, as the home rink of the Winnipeg Victorias, Winnipeg Hockey Club and Winnipeg Rowing Club. The rink was used in 1902 for a Stanley Cup challenge series between the Victorias and the Toronto Wellingtons. In 1907, it was used for the Stanley Cup challenge series between the Kenora Thistles and the Montreal Wanderers.\n\n"}
{"id": "29404289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29404289", "title": "Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame", "text": "Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame\n\nThe Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame honors distinguished members of Wisconsin's sports history. The Hall of Fame hosts several annual events, including an induction ceremony to honor new members, nomination luncheons, speaker series breakfasts and more. Bronze commemorative plaques honoring the members of the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame, including Hank Aaron, Vince Lombardi, Oscar Robertson, Bart Starr and others, are displayed in the Wisconsin Athletic Walk of Fame promenade in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\nThe Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame was created in 1951 by the Milwaukee Arena (now UW–Milwaukee Panther Arena). It was created to \"honor outstanding sports figures whose achievements earned them special acclaim.\" The Hall of Fame plaques were originally available only to paying customers at the Milwaukee Arena; however for the 50th anniversary in 2001, the Wisconsin Sports Development Corporation (WSDC) constructed a Wisconsin Athletic Walk of Fame outside of the UW–Milwaukee Panther Arena in Milwaukee so the plaques could be on permanent public display at no cost.\n\nIn 2014, the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame was acquired by Lammi Sports Management, a Milwaukee-based sports marketing corporation. Shortly after the acquisition, Lammi Sports announced that Wisconsin Hall of Fame LLC will manage and control the assets related to the Athletic Hall of Fame.\n\nOn October 27, 2015, the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame announced that Wisconsin Badgers men's basketball coach Bo Ryan and Green Bay Packers all-time leading wide receiver Donald Driver were selected for induction into the Athletic Hall of Fame's 65th Anniversary Class. The pair will be inducted during a special event celebrating their careers and contributions to athletics in Wisconsin on April 30, 2016 at the UW-Milwaukee Panther Arena, the site of the first Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame induction event in 1951.\n\nOn October 25, 2016, it was announced that Wisconsin Badgers Heisman Trophy winner Ron Dayne, LPGA legend Sherri Steinhauer, and Green Bay Packers Super Bowl Champion Charles Woodson will be inducted as part of the 2017 Class on April 29, 2017. Bud Selig will also be honored for his efforts to advance athletics and better the community in the state of Wisconsin with the Lifetime Achievement Award. 2016 inductee and Green Bay Packers Hall of Famer Donald Driver will serve as the MC for the event, taking place again at UW-Milwaukee Panther Arena.\n\nThere are over 135 people inducted into the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame. Inductees come from a variety of sports, including auto racing, football, basketball, water skiing, bowling, baseball, and bicycling, and various Olympic sports.\n\nA full list of inductees, along with pictures of their corresponding Hall of Fame plaques, can be found on the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame's official website: www.wihalloffame.com.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"An asterisk (*) indicates a deceased member\"\n\n\n"}
