{"id": "57894372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57894372", "title": "1974 anti-American riots in Cyprus", "text": "1974 anti-American riots in Cyprus\n\nThe 1974 anti-American riots in Cyprus were violent anti-American rioting that took place in front of the United States embassy in Nicosia, Cyprus on August 19, 1974. The events took place days after the second phase of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus which resulted in Turkey controlling 40% of the island.\n\nHundreds of Greek-Cypriots who were frustrated at the failure of the United States to quell the Turkish forces and fearing its alleging support for Turkey started to protest and riot. Many of those who took part were leftists.\n\nThe American ambassador to Cyprus, Rodger Davies, who was seeking shelter inside the embassy, was shot and killed by sharpshooters belonging to EOKA-B, a Greek-Cypriot nationalist paramilitary. from about 100 yards away. An embassy employee, Antoinette Varnava, who rushed to his aid, was also killed by a sniper bullet.\n\nIn February 1977, the Cypriot government decided to arrest six EOKA-B extremists and try them for the assassination of ambassador Davies.\n"}
{"id": "36481182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36481182", "title": "A Satyr Against Reason and Mankind", "text": "A Satyr Against Reason and Mankind\n\nA Satyr Against Reason and Mankind is a satirical poem by the English Restoration poet John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester.\n\n\"A Satyr Against Reason and Mankind\" addresses the question of the proper use of reason, and is generally assumed to be a Hobbesian critique of rationalism. The narrator subordinates reason to sense. It is based to some extent on Boileau's version of Juvenal's eighth or fifteenth satire, and is also indebted to Hobbes, Montaigne, Lucretius and Epicurus, as well as the general libertine tradition. Confusion has arisen in its interpretation as it is ambiguous as to whether the speaker is Rochester himself, or a satirised persona. It criticises the vanities and corruptions of the statesmen and politicians of the court of Charles II.\n\nIt is generally supposed to have been written before June 1674, which is the dating of the earliest surviving manuscript. Along with \"A Ramble in St. James's Park\", it is one of Rochester's best known works, and his most influential during his lifetime. It exists in some 52 manuscripts, more than any other work by the poet.\n\nIt resulted in four direct poetic responses; Edward Pococke's \"An Answer to the Satyr against Mankind\", Thomas Lessey's \"A Satyr In Answer to the Satyr against Man\", and the two anonymous responses \"An answer to a Satyr [against] Reason & Mankind\" and \"An Answer to the Satyr, Against Man\". It is alluded to in John Crowne's \"The Country Wit\". It has been argued that John Dryden addressed the poem in\n\"Religio Laici\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20566133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20566133", "title": "Arcades (Milton)", "text": "Arcades (Milton)\n\nArcades is a masque written by John Milton and performed on 4 May 1634. The piece was written to celebrate the character of Alice Spencer, the Countess Dowager of Derby, widow of Ferdinando Stanley, 5th Earl of Derby, during her 75th birthday. The masque distinguishes Spencer as having a greater far superior to other noble women by titling Spencer as queen of a metaphorical Arcadia that is far superior to any other realm. The piece served as a basis for Milton's later masque, \"Comus\". \n\nSpencer's family invited Milton to write a masque for a celebration to honour her on her 75th birthday, 4 May 1634. This arrangement was made possible through the intervention of Henry Lawes, the Earl's music tutor for his children, and friend to Milton's father. Milton wrote \"Arcades\" and the piece was performed at the Harefield estate. This masque established many themes and ideas later developed in his other masque, \"Comus\".\n\nThe masque begins by praising the countess and describes her in royal terms during the first song:\nGenius continues this idea and emphasizes that she was:\n\nAccording to Genius, sirens, similar to the muses, create a music that fills the senses:\nGenius describes how he, unlike mortals, is able to hear the song of the sirens and the song compelled him to an innocent rapture along with the Fates who are also seduced by the siren song:\n\nHer magnificence is further distinguished from any others during the second song:\nThis is compounded by the third song declaring that other queens are below her status and concluding the masque:\n\n\"Arcades\" sought to draw upon pastoral elements and mocked the pastoral Caroline traditions of Henrietta Maria of France. Instead of following traditional themes inherent in the genre that welcome guests, the guest characters in the masque seek to praise the Countess who is guided by the spirit Genius. Genius is not a unique figure in Miltonic poetry and he is similar to a demon or Thyrsis in \"Comus\" because he relies on divine music for an earthly purpose. \n\nThe masque portrays a powerful female character at the centre of the plot. Although he does not say that she is part of the surrounding social context, especially one that could be seen in a negative light, she does have direct connections to classical female divinities, such as Cybele and Latona, who have established divine families. The female figure is not only a mother of her family; she is also mother of a greater version of Arcady. In her position, the people and spirits of the land honour her for her greatness.\n\n"}
{"id": "53945725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53945725", "title": "Archivos do Museu Nacional", "text": "Archivos do Museu Nacional\n\nArquivos do Museu Nacional (previously Archivos do Museu Nacional; ISSN: 0365-4508) is the oldest scientific journal of Brazil. Its first issue was published in 1876, founded by Ladislau de Souza Mello Netto. The journal is edited and published quarterly (March, June, September and December) by the National Museum of Brazil and the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. The journal areas cover anthropology, archaeology, botany, geology, paleontology and zoology.\n"}
{"id": "1572477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572477", "title": "Auditory phonetics", "text": "Auditory phonetics\n\nAuditory phonetics is a branch of phonetics concerned with the hearing of speech sounds and with speech perception.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11754194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11754194", "title": "Bem Sex-Role Inventory", "text": "Bem Sex-Role Inventory\n\nThe Bem Sex-Role Inventory (BSRI) is a measure of gender expression and gender roles, put in terms of masculinity and femininity. It assesses how people identify themselves psychologically. Sandra Bem's goal of the BSRI was to examine psychological androgyny and provide empirical evidence to show the advantage of a shared masculine and feminine personality versus a sex-typed categorization. The test is formatted with 60 different personality traits which participants rate themselves based on a 7-point Likert scale. Traits are evenly dispersed, 20 masculine, 20 feminine, and 20 filler traits thought to be gender neutral. All traits in the BSRI are positively valued personality aspects. Numerous past studies have found that gender categorizations are correlated with many stereotypical gendered behaviors.\n\n\"In the field of psychology, much research is conducted involving individuals' perceptions of gender roles, and behavioral as well as attitudinal correlates. Gender roles may be defined as \"expectations about what is appropriate behavior for each sex\". One can also add to this definition the expectations which are held about appropriate personality characteristics.\" The Bem Sex-Role Inventory was created by Sandra Bem in an effort to measure androgyny. It was published in 1974. Stereotypical masculine and feminine traits were found by surveying 100 Stanford undergraduate students on which traits they found to be socially desirable for each sex. The original list of 200 traits was narrowed down to the 40 masculine and feminine traits that appear on the present test. Normative data was found from a 1973 sample for 444 males and 279 females and a 1978 sample of 340 females and 476 males all also from Stanford University undergraduates.\n\nParticipants are asked to rate themselves on each trait using a Likert scale. One indicates never or almost never true, while a seven would indicate always or almost always true. Originally androgyny was calculated by finding the t-ratio difference between masculine and feminine scores; however, in 1981 Bem advises users to utilize a split median technique for more accurate scoring.\n\nThe Bem Sex-Role Inventory offers four different possible resulting categorizations: masculine, feminine, androgynous and undifferentiated. Previously, an androgynous score was thought to be the result of equal masculine and feminine traits, while a sex-typed masculine or feminine score is the result of more traits belonging in one or the other category.The fourth type of score, undifferentiated, was seen as the result of extremely low masculine and feminine traits.\n\nHowever, after the change in scoring technique, androgynous is the result of scoring above the median in both masculine and feminine categories. Sex-typed scores, masculine and feminine, are the result of scoring above the median in one gender and below the median in the other. An undifferentiated score is now a result of scoring below the median in both masculine and feminine categories. In other words, since scores are based on normative data, an androgynous classification occurs when a subject scores above 50% of the comparison group in both masculine and feminine categories, while a sex-typed classification is the result of scoring above half the comparison group in only one gender category.\n\nThe BSRI is very empirically sound. Bem reports coefficient alphas of .78 for femininity scales and .87 for the masculinity scale. BSRI, also has demonstrated high test-retest reliability.\n\nHowever, since this is a self-report inventory, how reliable the assessment is depends on how accurately participants rate themselves. An androgynous score is the result of extremely masculine and feminine scores and an undifferentiated score is the result of extremely low masculine and feminine scores. It has been theorized that perhaps tendencies to rate oneself extremely low and extremely high on traits can affect a subjects' resulting gender placement.\n\nThe degree of reliability of each scoring technique is up for debate. When comparing the old t ratio scoring to the newly endorsed median split technique, 42.3% of participants had a different resulting categorization. Since the median split method bases scores more heavily on the normative data of that population, a participant can be categorized differently based on the population of subjects they take the test with. For example, results may differ if the test was administered to a group of marines versus students at a private girls highschool. This challenges the test's between sample reliability. As stated by Elazae Pedhazur in a clip from his critique, \"Bem concludes her discussion by stating, 'Finally, we urge investigators to further analyze their data without categorizing individual subjects in any way, i.e., through the use of multiple regression technique.' While endorsing what appears to be a suggestion to conduct studies within the framework of trait-treatment interactions, one cannot help wondering: Where has androgyny gone?\"\n\nThe short form of the BSRI consists of 30 items. It has a strong .90 correlation with the original BSRI. This short form of the test allows for increased internal consistency. Bem reports similar masculinity coefficient alphas and higher femininity coefficient alphas with this form. The short form discards the traits \"feminine\", \"masculine\", and \"athletic\" from the self-report scales. Specifically, the short form removed some feminine traits that could be seen as less socially desirable such as \"gullible\" and \"childlike\". Masculine categories depict \"assertive-dominance\" and \"instrumentality\", while feminine categories depict \"nurtureness-interpersonal warmth\" and \"expressiveness\".\n"}
{"id": "6784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6784", "title": "Citizenship", "text": "Citizenship\n\nCitizenship is the status of a person recognized under the custom or law as being a legal member of a sovereign state or belonging to a nation.\n\nA person may have multiple citizenships. A person who does not have citizenship of any state is said to be stateless, while one who lives on state borders whose territorial status is uncertain is a border-lander.\n\nNationality is often used as a synonym for citizenship in English – notably in international law – although the term is sometimes understood as denoting a person's membership of a nation (a large ethnic group). In some countries, e.g. the United States, the United Kingdom, nationality and citizenship can have different meanings (for more information, see Nationality versus citizenship).\n\nEach country has its own policies, regulations and criteria as to who is entitled to its citizenship. A person can be recognized or granted citizenship on a number of bases. Usually citizenship based on circumstances of birth is automatic, but in other cases an application may be required.\n\n\nMany thinkers point to the concept of citizenship beginning in the early city-states of ancient Greece, although others see it as primarily a modern phenomenon dating back only a few hundred years and, for humanity, that the concept of citizenship arose with the first laws. \"Polis\" meant both the political assembly of the city-state as well as the entire society. Citizenship has generally been identified as a western phenomenon. There is a general view that citizenship in ancient times was a simpler relation than modern forms of citizenship, although this view has come under scrutiny. The relation of citizenship has not been a fixed or static relation, but constantly changed within each society, and that according to one view, citizenship might \"really have worked\" only at select periods during certain times, such as when the Athenian politician Solon made reforms in the early Athenian state.\n\nHistorian Geoffrey Hosking in his 2005 \"Modern Scholar\" lecture course suggested that citizenship in ancient Greece arose from an appreciation for the importance of freedom. Hosking explained:\n\nSlavery permitted slaveowners to have substantial free time, and enabled participation in public life. Polis citizenship was marked by exclusivity. Inequality of status was widespread; citizens (πολίτης \"politēs\" < πόλις 'city') had a higher status than non-citizens, such as women, slaves, and resident foreigners (metics). The first form of citizenship was based on the way people lived in the ancient Greek times, in small-scale organic communities of the polis. Citizenship was not seen as a separate activity from the private life of the individual person, in the sense that there was not a distinction between public and private life. The obligations of citizenship were deeply connected into one's everyday life in the polis. These small-scale organic communities were generally seen as a new development in world history, in contrast to the established ancient civilizations of Egypt or Persia, or the hunter-gatherer bands elsewhere. From the viewpoint of the ancient Greeks, a person's public life was not separated from their private life, and Greeks did not distinguish between the two worlds according to the modern western conception. The obligations of citizenship were deeply connected with everyday life. To be truly human, one had to be an active citizen to the community, which Aristotle famously expressed: \"To take no part in the running of the community's affairs is to be either a beast or a god!\" This form of citizenship was based on obligations of citizens towards the community, rather than rights given to the citizens of the community. This was not a problem because they all had a strong affinity with the polis; their own destiny and the destiny of the community were strongly linked. Also, citizens of the polis saw obligations to the community as an opportunity to be virtuous, it was a source of honour and respect. In Athens, citizens were both ruler and ruled, important political and judicial offices were rotated and all citizens had the right to speak and vote in the political assembly.\n\nIn the Roman Empire, citizenship expanded from small-scale communities to the entire empire. Romans realized that granting citizenship to people from all over the empire legitimized Roman rule over conquered areas. Roman citizenship was no longer a status of political agency, as it had been reduced to a judicial safeguard and the expression of rule and law. Rome carried forth Greek ideas of citizenship such as the principles of equality under the law, civic participation in government, and notions that \"no one citizen should have too much power for too long\", but Rome offered relatively generous terms to its captives, including chances for lesser forms of citizenship. If Greek citizenship was an \"emancipation from the world of things\", the Roman sense increasingly reflected the fact that citizens could act upon material things as well as other citizens, in the sense of buying or selling property, possessions, titles, goods. One historian explained:\n\nRoman citizenship reflected a struggle between the upper-class patrician interests against the lower-order working groups known as the plebeian class. A citizen came to be understood as a person \"free to act by law, free to ask and expect the law's protection, a citizen of such and such a legal community, of such and such a legal standing in that community\". Citizenship meant having rights to have possessions, immunities, expectations, which were \"available in many kinds and degrees, available or unavailable to many kinds of person for many kinds of reason\". The law itself was a kind of bond uniting people. Roman citizenship was more impersonal, universal, multiform, having different degrees and applications.\n\nDuring the European Middle Ages, citizenship was usually associated with cities and towns, and applied mainly to middle class folk. Titles such as burgher, grand burgher (German \"Großbürger\") and bourgeoisie denoted political affiliation and identity in relation to a particular locality, as well as membership in a mercantile or trading class; thus, individuals of respectable means and socioeconomic status were interchangeable with citizens.\n\nDuring this era, members of the nobility had a range of privileges above commoners (see aristocracy), though political upheavals and reforms, beginning most prominently with the French Revolution, abolished privileges and created an egalitarian concept of citizenship.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, people transitioned from being subjects of a king or queen to being citizens of a city and later to a nation. Each city had its own law, courts, and independent administration. And being a citizen often meant being subject to the city's law in addition to having power in some instances to help choose officials. City dwellers who had fought alongside nobles in battles to defend their cities were no longer content with having a subordinate social status, but demanded a greater role in the form of citizenship. Membership in guilds was an indirect form of citizenship in that it helped their members succeed financially. The rise of citizenship was linked to the rise of republicanism, according to one account, since independent citizens meant that kings had less power. Citizenship became an idealized, almost abstract, concept, and did not signify a submissive relation with a lord or count, but rather indicated the bond between a person and the state in the rather abstract sense of having rights and duties.\n\nThe modern idea of citizenship still respects the idea of political participation, but it is usually done through \"elaborate systems of political representation at a distance\" such as representative democracy. Modern citizenship is much more passive; action is delegated to others; citizenship is often a constraint on acting, not an impetus to act. Nevertheless, citizens are usually aware of their obligations to authorities, and are aware that these bonds often limit what they can do.\n\nFrom 1790 until the mid-twentieth century, United States law used racial criteria to establish citizenship rights and regulate who was eligible to become a naturalized citizen. The Naturalization Act of 1790, the first law in U.S. history to establish rules for citizenship and naturalization, barred citizenship to all people who were not of European descent, stating that \"any alien being a free white person, who shall have resided within the limits and under the jurisdiction of the United States for the term of two years, may be admitted to become a citizen thereof.\"\n\nUnder early U.S. laws, African Americans were not eligible for citizenship. In 1857, these laws were upheld in the US Supreme Court case Dred Scott v. Sandford, which ruled that \"a free negro of the African race, whose ancestors were brought to this country and sold as slaves, is not a 'citizen' within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States,\" and that \"the special rights and immunities guarantied to citizens do not apply to them.\"\n\nIt was not until the abolition of slavery following the American Civil War that African Americans were granted citizenship rights. The 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, ratified on July 9, 1868, stated that \"all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.\" Two years later, the Naturalization Act of 1870 would extend the right to become a naturalized citizen to include \"aliens of African nativity and to persons of African descent\".\n\nDespite the gains made by African Americans after the Civil War, Native Americans, Asians, and others not considered \"free white persons\" were still denied the ability to become citizens. The 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act explicitly denied naturalization rights to all people of Chinese origin, while subsequent acts passed by the US Congress, such as laws in 1906, 1917, and 1924, would include clauses that denied immigration and naturalization rights to people based on broadly defined racial categories. Supreme Court cases such as Ozawa v. United States (1922) and U.S. v. Bhagat Singh Thind (1923), would later clarify the meaning of the phrase \"free white persons,\" ruling that ethnically Japanese, Indian, and other non-European people were not \"white persons\", and were therefore ineligible for naturalization under U.S. law.\n\nNative Americans were not granted full US citizenship until the passage of the Indian Citizenship Act in 1924. However, even well into the 1960s some state laws prevented Native Americans from exercising their full rights as citizens, such as the right to vote. In 1962, New Mexico became the last state to enfranchise Native Americans.\n\nIt was not until the passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 that the racial and gender restrictions for naturalization were explicitly abolished. However, the act still contained restrictions regarding who was eligible for US citizenship, and retained a national quota system which limited the number of visas given to immigrants based on their national origin, to be fixed \"at a rate of one-sixth of one percent of each nationality's population in the United States in 1920\". It was not until the passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 that these immigration quota systems were drastically altered in favor of a less discriminatory system.\n\nThe 1918 constitution of revolutionary Russia granted citizenship to any foreigners who were living within Russia, so long as they were \"engaged in work and [belonged] to the working class.\" It recognized \"the equal rights of all citizens, irrespective of their racial or national connections\" and declared oppression of any minority group or race \"to be contrary to the fundamental laws of the Republic.\" The 1918 constitution also established the right to vote and be elected to soviets for both men and women \"irrespective of religion, nationality, domicile, etc. [...] who shall have completed their eighteenth year by the day of election.\" The later constitutions of the USSR would grant universal Soviet citizenship to the citizens of all member republics in concord with the principles of non-discrimination laid out in the original 1918 constitution of Russia.\n\nNational Socialism or \"Nazism\", the German variant of twentieth century fascism whose precepts were laid out in Adolf Hitler's Mein Kampf, classified inhabitants of the nation into three main hierarchical categories, each of which would have different rights and duties in relation to the state: citizens, subjects, and aliens. The first category, citizens, were to possess full civic rights and responsibilities. Citizenship would be conferred only on males of German (or so-called \"Aryan\") heritage who had completed military service, and could be revoked at any time by the state. The Reich Citizenship Law of 1935 established racial criteria for citizenship in the German Reich, and because of this law Jews and others who could not prove \"German\" racial heritage were stripped of their citizenship.\n\nThe second category, subjects, referred to all others who were born within the nation's boundaries who did not fit the racial criteria for citizenship. Subjects would have no voting rights, could not hold any position within the state, and possessed none of the other rights and civic responsibilities conferred on citizens. All women were to be conferred \"subject\" status upon birth, and could only obtain \"citizen\" status if they worked independently or if they married a German citizen (see women in Nazi Germany).\n\nThe final category, aliens, referred to those who were citizens of another state, who also had no rights.\n\nCitizenship status, under social contract theory, carries with it both rights and duties. In this sense, citizenship was described as \"a bundle of rights -- primarily, political participation in the life of the community, the right to vote, and the right to receive certain protection from the community, as well as obligations.\" Citizenship is seen by most scholars as culture-specific, in the sense that the meaning of the term varies considerably from culture to culture, and over time. In China, for example, there is a cultural politics of citizenship which could be called \"peopleship\". \n\nHow citizenship is understood depends on the person making the determination. The relation of citizenship has never been fixed or static, but constantly changes within each society. While citizenship has varied considerably throughout history, and within societies over time, there are some common elements but they vary considerably as well. As a bond, citizenship extends beyond basic kinship ties to unite people of different genetic backgrounds. It usually signifies membership in a political body. It is often based on, or was a result of, some form of military service or expectation of future service. It usually involves some form of political participation, but this can vary from token acts to active service in government. \n\nCitizenship is a status in society. It is an ideal state as well. It generally describes a person with legal rights within a given political order. It almost always has an element of exclusion, meaning that some people are not citizens, and that this distinction can sometimes be very important, or not important, depending on a particular society. Citizenship as a concept is generally hard to isolate intellectually and compare with related political notions, since it relates to many other aspects of society such as the family, military service, the individual, freedom, religion, ideas of right and wrong, ethnicity, and patterns for how a person should behave in society. When there are many different groups within a nation, citizenship may be the only real bond which unites everybody as equals without discrimination—it is a \"broad bond\" linking \"a person with the state\" and gives people a universal identity as a legal member of a specific nation.\n\nModern citizenship has often been looked at as two competing underlying ideas:\n\n\nScholars suggest that the concept of citizenship contains many unresolved issues, sometimes called tensions, existing within the relation, that continue to reflect uncertainty about what citizenship is supposed to mean. Some unresolved issues regarding citizenship include questions about what is the proper balance between duties and rights. Another is a question about what is the proper balance between political citizenship versus social citizenship. Some thinkers see benefits with people being absent from public affairs, since too much participation such as revolution can be destructive, yet too little participation such as total apathy can be problematic as well. Citizenship can be seen as a special elite status, and it can also be seen as a democratizing force and something that everybody has; the concept can include both senses. According to sociologist Arthur Stinchcombe, citizenship is based on the extent that a person can control one's own destiny within the group in the sense of being able to influence the government of the group. One last distinction within citizenship is the so-called consent descent distinction, and this issue addresses whether citizenship is a fundamental matter determined by a person choosing to belong to a particular nation––by his or her consent––or is citizenship a matter of where a person was born––that is, by his or her descent.\n\nSome intergovernmental organizations have extended the concept and terminology associated with citizenship to the international level, where it is applied to the totality of the citizens of their constituent countries combined. Citizenship at this level is a secondary concept, with rights deriving from national citizenship.\n\nThe Maastricht Treaty introduced the concept of citizenship of the European Union. Article 17 (1) of the Treaty on European Union stated that: Citizenship of the Union is hereby established. Every person holding the nationality of a Member State shall be a citizen of the Union. Citizenship of the Union shall be additional to and not replace national citizenship.\n\nAn agreement known as the amended EC Treaty established certain minimal rights for European Union citizens. Article 12 of the amended EC Treaty guaranteed a general right of non-discrimination within the scope of the Treaty. Article 18 provided a limited right to free movement and residence in Member States other than that of which the European Union citizen is a national. Articles 18-21 and 225 provide certain political rights.\n\nUnion citizens have also extensive rights to move in order to exercise economic activity in any of the Member States which predate the introduction of Union citizenship.\n\nThe concept of \"Commonwealth Citizenship\" has been in place ever since the establishment of the Commonwealth of Nations. As with the EU, one holds Commonwealth citizenship only by being a citizen of a Commonwealth member state. This form of citizenship offers certain privileges within some Commonwealth countries:\n\nAlthough Ireland was excluded from the Commonwealth in 1949 because it declared itself a republic, Ireland is generally treated as if it were still a member. Legislation often specifically provides for equal treatment between Commonwealth countries and Ireland and refers to \"Commonwealth countries and Ireland\". Ireland's citizens are not classified as foreign nationals in the United Kingdom.\n\nCanada departed from the principle of nationality being defined in terms of allegiance in 1921. In 1935 the Irish Free State was the first to introduce its own citizenship. However, Irish citizens were still treated as subjects of the Crown, and they are still not regarded as foreign, even though Ireland is not a member of the Commonwealth. The Canadian Citizenship Act of 1947 provided for a distinct Canadian Citizenship, automatically conferred upon most individuals born in Canada, with some exceptions, and defined the conditions under which one could become a naturalized citizen. The concept of Commonwealth citizenship was introduced in 1948 in the British Nationality Act 1948. Other dominions adopted this principle such as New Zealand, by way of the British Nationality and New Zealand Citizenship Act of 1948.\n\nCitizenship most usually relates to membership of the nation state, but the term can also apply at the subnational level. Subnational entities may impose requirements, of residency or otherwise, which permit citizens to participate in the political life of that entity, or to enjoy benefits provided by the government of that entity. But in such cases, those eligible are also sometimes seen as \"citizens\" of the relevant state, province, or region. An example of this is how the fundamental basis of Swiss citizenship is citizenship of an individual commune, from which follows citizenship of a canton and of the Confederation. Another example is Åland where the residents enjoy a special provincial citizenship within Finland, \"hembygdsrätt\".\n\nThe United States has a federal system in which a person is a citizen of their specific state of residence, such as New Jersey or California, as well as a citizen of the United States. State constitutions may grant certain rights above and beyond what are granted under the United States Constitution and may impose their own obligations including the sovereign right of taxation and military service; each state maintains at least one military force subject to national militia transfer service, the state's national guard, and some states maintain a second military force not subject to nationalization.\n\n\"Active citizenship\" is the philosophy that citizens should work towards the betterment of their community through economic participation, public, volunteer work, and other such efforts to improve life for all citizens. In this vein, citizenship education is taught in schools, as an academic subject in some countries. By the time children reach secondary education there is an emphasis on such unconventional subjects to be included in academic curriculum. While the diagram on citizenship to the right is rather facile and depth-less, it is simplified to explain the general model of citizenship that is taught to many secondary school pupils. The idea behind this model within education is to instill in young pupils that their actions (i.e. their vote) affect collective citizenship and thus in turn them.\n\nIt is taught in the Republic of Ireland as an exam subject for the Junior Certificate. It is known as Civic, Social and Political Education (CSPE). A new Leaving Certificate exam subject with the working title 'Politics & Society' is being developed by the National Council for Curriculum and Assessment (NCCA) and is expected to be introduced to the curriculum sometime after 2012.\n\nCitizenship is offered as a General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) course in many schools in the United Kingdom. As well as teaching knowledge about democracy, parliament, government, the justice system, human rights and the UK's relations with the wider world, students participate in active citizenship, often involving a social action or social enterprise in their local community.\n\nThere are two kinds of criticism of citizenship education in schools. Firstly, some philosophers of education argue that most governments and mainstream policies stimulate and advocate questionable approaches of citizenship education. These approaches aim to develop specific dispositions in students, dispositions conducive to political participation and solidarity. But there are radically different views on the nature of good citizenship and education should involve and develop autonomy and open-mindedness. Therefore, it requires a more critical approach than is possible when political participation and solidarity are conceived of as goals of education. Secondly, some educationalists argue that merely teaching children about the theory of citizenship is ineffective, unless schools themselves reflect democratic practices by giving children the opportunity to have a say in decision making. They suggest that schools are fundamentally undemocratic institutions, and that such a setting cannot instill in children the commitment and belief in democratic values that is necessary for citizenship education to have a proper impact. Some educationalists relate this criticism to John Dewey (see critical comments on this interpretation of Dewey: Van der Ploeg, 2016).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3616816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3616816", "title": "Clown Care", "text": "Clown Care\n\nClown Care, also known as hospital clowning, is a program in health care facilities involving visits from specially trained clowns. They are colloquially called \"clown doctors\" which is a trademarked name in several countries. These visits to hospitals have been shown to help in lifting patients moods with the positive power of hope and humor. There is also an associated positive benefit to the staff and families of patients.\n\nPatch Adams, considered the first hospital clown, started being a hospital clown in the 1970s. He was portrayed in the movie Patch Adams by Robin Williams, bringing attention to hospital clowning.\n\nProfessional Clown Doctors began working in hospitals in 1986 under a program called the Big Apple Circus Clown Care Unit, which was started by Michael Christensen in New York City. Clown Doctor programs now operate in every state in Australia, New Zealand, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Israel, South Africa, Hong Kong, Brazil, and all over Europe.\n\nClown Doctors attend specifically to the psycho-social needs of the hospitalized child but in some hospitals they also visit adults. They parody the hospital routine to help children adapt to their surroundings, they also distract from and demystify painful or frightening procedures. The atmosphere of fun and laughter can help children forget about the illness and the stress for a moment.\n\nClown Doctors use techniques such as magic, music, storytelling and other clowning skills to empower children with doses of fun that help them deal with the range of emotions they may experience while in hospital: fear, anxiety, loneliness, boredom.\n\nThe healing power of humor and laughter combats stress, reduces pain by releasing endorphin (the body's natural painkiller), boosts the immune system by increasing the level of T cells & lowering serum cortisol levels, helps promote a positive outlook, helps people to cope with difficult situations and helps to create bonds and therefore support between people, all of which aids the healing process.\n\nResearch on the physiological health benefits on laughter has been conducted for decades and continues to be carried out by medical physicians internationally. There is also a growing group of researchers that are exploring the psychological benefits of laughter, and specifically the work of Clown-Doctors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4040732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4040732", "title": "Coronet (typeface)", "text": "Coronet (typeface)\n\nCoronet is an American typeface designed in 1937 by R. Hunter Middleton.\n\nBitstream's unofficial digitisation is called \"Ribbon 131\".\n"}
{"id": "12783597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12783597", "title": "DORIS (geodesy)", "text": "DORIS (geodesy)\n\nDoppler Orbitography and Radiopositioning Integrated by Satellite or, in French, Détermination d'Orbite et Radiopositionnement Intégré par Satellite (in both case yielding the acronym DORIS) is a French satellite system used for the determination of satellite orbits (e.g. TOPEX/Poseidon) and for positioning.\n\nGround-based radio beacons emit a signal which is picked up by receiving satellites. This is in reverse configuration to other GNSS, in which the transmitters are space-borne and receivers are in majority near the surface of the Earth. A frequency shift of the signal occurs that is caused by the movement of the satellite (Doppler effect). From this observation satellite orbits, ground positions, as well as other parameters can be derived.\n\nDORIS is a French system which was initiated and is maintained by the French Space Agency (CNES). It is operated from Toulouse.\n\nThe ground segment includes about 50-60 ground stations, equally distributed over the earth and ensure a good coverage for orbit determination. For the installation of a beacon only electricity is required because the station only emits a signal but does not receive any information. DORIS beacons transmit to the satellites on two UHF frequencies, 401.25 MHz and 2036.25 MHz.\n\nThere have been two active DORIS stations in Australia:\n\nThe best known satellites equipped with DORIS receivers are the altimetry satellites TOPEX/Poseidon, Jason 1, Jason 2, and Jason 3. They are used to observe the ocean surface as well as currents or wave heights. DORIS contributes to their orbit accuracy of about 2 cm.\n\nOther DORIS satellites are the Envisat, SPOT, HY-2A and CryoSat-2 satellites.\n\nApart from orbit determination, the DORIS observations are used for positioning of ground stations. The accuracy is a bit lower than with GPS, but it still contributes to the International Terrestrial Reference Frame (ITRF).\n\n"}
{"id": "58793632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58793632", "title": "Decree on the Attempted Ordination of Some Catholic Women", "text": "Decree on the Attempted Ordination of Some Catholic Women\n\nDecree on the Attempted Ordination of Some Catholic Women is a canonical decree issued by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, under Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, and approved by Pope John Paul II on December 21, 2002. It can be found in Acta Apostolicae Sedis 95 (2003). The decree is in response to Romulo Antonio Braschi ordaining seven Catholic women to the priesthood of his movement on June 29, 2002, and is a follow up to a decree of excommunication of Braschi and the women issued on August 5, 2002.\n\n=Background=\nIn 1998, Braschi left the Catholic Church for the Catholic Apostolic Charismatic Church of Jesus the King and became bishop of it. On June 29, 2002, on a boat on the Danube River, Austria, Braschi ordained seven Catholic women, called the Danube Seven, to the priesthood: Christine Mayr-Lumetzberger, Adelinde Roitinger, Gisela Forster, Iris Müller, Ida Raming, Pia Brunner and Dagmar Braun Celeste (who called herself Angela White). The Bishop of Linz and of the Austrian Episcopal Conference intervened, but to no avail. On July 10, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith warned the eight persons that they would be excommunicated on July 22 if they did not repent. On August 5, the Congregation issued a decree of excommunication of the eight persons. The excommunicated people then published letters and granted interviews about the ordinations, explaining how it was valid, that the Catholic Church ought to allow women to be ordained, and how they had celebrated the sacraments. On August 14 and September 27, the people requested the Congregation to revoke the excommunication. The latter request made reference to canons regarding recourse against administrative decrees in the Code of Canon Law. On October 21, the Congregation replied that it would look into the matter.\n\n=Contents=\nThe decree explains the excommunicated party's background, then the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith's response to the party's request for the revocation of their excommunication. The response was prepared by fifteen members of the Congregation: Cardinals Joseph Ratzinger, Alfonso López Trujillo, Ignace Moussa I. Daoud, Giovanni Battista Re, Francis Arinze, Jozef Tomko, Achille Silvestrini, Jorge Medina Estévez, James Francis Stafford, Zenon Grocholewski, Walter Kasper, Crescenzio Sepe, Mario Francesco Pompedda and Bishops Tarcisio Bertone, SDB, and Rino Fisichella. The fifteen members met multiple times to discuss the matter, and ultimately came to a \"collegial decision\" to not revoke the excommunication. The Congregation listed the reasons for why this was the case: the excommunication was not a latae sententiae penalty, but a ferendae sententiae penalty, as per Canons 1314, 1319, and 1347; the excommunication was issued by the Pope through the Congregation, as per Canon 360; the offense was grave and evident; the women, by choosing to be ordained by a schismatic, became schismatics themselves; the women rejected the magisterium of the Pope and the dogma on ordination that he definitively proposed in \"Ordinatio Sacerdotalis\"; the women, by inciting other Catholics to schism, were justly punished so as to protect the faith, communion and unity of the church and guide the consciences of the faithful; and the excommunication was intended to provoke the six persons to repentance.\n\n=See also=\n\n=External links=\n\n\n=References=\n"}
{"id": "6153185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6153185", "title": "Deimachus", "text": "Deimachus\n\nDeimachus (; Greek Δηίμαχος) was a Greek of the Seleucid Empire who lived during the third-century BCE. He became an ambassador to the court of Bindusara \"Amitragata\" (son of Chandragupta Maurya) in Pataliputra in India.\n\nAs an ambassador, he was the successor to the famous ambassador and historian Megasthenes. Both of them were mentioned by Strabo:\n\nDeimachus apparently wrote extensively on India, and is quoted as a reference in geographical matters, although his works are now lost:\n\nStrabo, however, disputed these figures, and some of the fanciful accounts of both men, although they also brought extensive knowledge about India:\n"}
{"id": "44728102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44728102", "title": "Eberhard Fischer (art historian)", "text": "Eberhard Fischer (art historian)\n\nEberhard Fischer (born 15 October 1941) is a German art historian, ethnologist and author based in Switzerland. He is a former Director and the incumbent President of Rietberg Society, Switzerland. Fischer was honored by the Government of India, in 2012, with the fourth highest Indian civilian award of Padma Shri.\n\nEberhard Fischer was born in Berlin, Germany on 15 October 1941. He is an ethnologist and art historian who is known to have researched on the heritages of India and other African and Asian places. He is a former Director of Rietberg Society and serves as its President. He is also the Secretary General of the Swiss-Liechtenstein Foundation for Archaeological Research Abroad (SLSA). Fischer has authored several books on art and ethnic heritage and has contributed to the publication of many others. He has also produced \"Nainsukh\", a 90 mins feature film in Dogri language with English subtitles, in 2010, with filmmaker Amit Dutta . The Government of India awarded him the civilian honor of Padma Shri in 2012. After receiving the award on 4 April 2012, Fischer donated his collection of over 40 books to Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5657659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5657659", "title": "Egyptian faience", "text": "Egyptian faience\n\nEgyptian faience is a sintered-quartz ceramic displaying surface vitrification which creates a bright lustre of various colours, with blue-green being the most common. Defined as a \"material made from powdered quartz covered with a true vitreous coating, usually in a transparent blue or green isotropic glass\", faience is distinct from the crystalline compound Egyptian blue. Faience is considerably more porous than glass proper. It can be cast in molds to create vessels, jewelry and decorative objects. Although it contains the major constituents of glass (silica, lime) and no clay until late periods, faience is frequently discussed in surveys of ancient pottery, as in stylistic and art-historical terms objects made of it are closer to pottery styles than ancient Egyptian glass. \n\nEgyptian faience was very widely used for small objects from beads to small statues, and is found in both elite and popular contexts. It was the most common material for scarabs and other forms of amulet and ushabti figures, and used in most forms of ancient Egyptian jewellery, as the glaze made it smooth against the skin. Larger applications included cups and bowls, and wall tiles, mostly used for temples. The well-known blue figures of a hippopotamus, placed in the tombs of officials, can be up to 20 cm long, approaching the maximum practical size for faience, though the Victoria and Albert Museum in London has a faience sceptre from Egypt dated 1427–1400 BC.\n\nIt is called \"Egyptian faience\" to distinguish it from faience, the tin-glazed pottery associated with Faenza in northern Italy. Egyptian faience was both exported widely in the ancient world and made locally in many places, and is found in Mesopotamia, around the Mediterranean and in northern Europe as far away as Scotland. The term is used for the material wherever it was made and modern scientific analyses are often the only way of establishing the provenance of simple objects such as the very common beads.\n\nThe term is therefore unsatisfactory in several respects, although clear in an Ancient Egyptian context, and is increasingly rejected in museum and archaeological usage. The British Museum now calls this material \"glazed composition\", with the following note in the \"information\" box on their online collection database: \"The term is used for objects with a body made of finely powdered quartz grains fused together with small amounts of alkali and/or lime through partial heating. The bodies are usually colourless but natural impurities give them a brown or greyish tint. Colourants can also be added to give it an artificial colour. It can be modelled by hand, thrown or moulded, and hardens with firing. This material is used in the context of Islamic ceramics where it is described as stonepaste (or fritware). Glazed composition is related to glass, but glass is formed by completely fusing the ingredients in a liquid melted at high temperature. This material is also popularly called faience in the contexts of Ancient Egypt and Ancient Near East. However, this is a misnomer as these objects have no relationship to the glazed pottery vessels made in Faenza, from which the faience term derives. Other authors use the terms sintered quartz, glazed frit, frit, composition, Egyptian Blue, paste or (in the 19th century) even porcelain, although the last two terms are very inappropriate as they also describe imitation gems and a type of ceramic. Frit is technically a flux.\"\n\nFrom the inception of faience in the archaeological record of Ancient Egypt, the elected colors of the glazes varied within an array of blue-green hues. Glazed in these colours, faience was perceived as substitute for blue-green materials such as turquoise, found in the Sinai Peninsula, and lapis lazuli from Afghanistan. According to the archaeologist David Frederick Grose, the quest to imitate precious stones \"explains why most all early glasses are opaque and brilliantly colored\" and that the deepest blue color imitating lapis lazuli was likely the most sought-after. As early as the Predynastic graves at Naqada, Badar, el-Amrah, Matmar, Harageh, Avadiyedh and El-Gerzeh, glazed steatite and faience beads are found associated with these semi-precious stones. The association of faience with turquoise and lapis lazuli becomes even more conspicuous in Quennou's funerary papyrus, giving his title as the director of overseer of faience-making, using the word which strictly means lapis lazuli, which by the New Kingdom had also come to refer to the 'substitute', faience. The symbolism embedded in blue glazing could recall both the Nile, the waters of heaven and the home of the gods, whereas green could possibly evoke images of regeneration, rebirth and vegetation.\nThe discovery of faience glazing has tentatively been associated with the copper industry: bronze scale and corrosion products of leaded copper objects are found in the manufacture of faience pigments. However, although the likelihood of glazed quartz pebbles developing accidentally in traces in copper smelting furnaces from the copper and wood ash is high, the regions in which these processes originate do not coincide.\n\nAlthough it appears that no glass was intentionally produced in Egypt before the Eighteenth Dynasty (as the establishment of glass manufacture is generally attributed to the reign of Thutmose III), it is likely that faience, frit and glass were all made in close proximity or in the same workshop complex, since developments in one industry are reflected in others. Such close relationship is reflected in the prominent similarity of the formulations of faience glaze and contemporary glass compositions. Despite the differences in the pyrotechnology of glass and faience, faience being worked cold, archaeological evidence suggests that New Kingdom glass and faience production was undertaken in the same workshops.\n\nFaience has been defined as the first high technology ceramic, to emphasize its status as an artificial medium, rendering it effectively a precious stone. Egyptian faience is a non-clay based ceramic composed of crushed quartz or sand, with small amounts of calcite lime and a mixture of alkalis, displaying surface vitrification due to the soda lime silica glaze often containing copper pigments to create a bright blue-green luster. While in most instances domestic ores seem to have provided the bulk of the mineral pigments, evidence suggests that during periods of prosperity, raw materials not available locally, such as lead and copper, were imported. Plant ash, from \"halophyte\" (salt-tolerant) plants typical of dry and sea areas, was the major source of alkali until the Ptolemaic Period, when natron-based alkalis almost completely replaced the previous source. Although the chemical composition of faience materials varies over time and according to the status of the workshop, also as a cause of change of accessibility of raw materials, the material constitution of the glaze is at all times consistent with the generally accepted version of faience glazing.\n\nTypical faience mixture is thixotropic, that is thick at first and then soft and flowing as it begins to be formed.\nThis property, together with the angularity of silica particles, accounts for the gritty slumps formed when the material is wetted, rendering faience a difficult material to hold a shape. If pressed too vigorously, this material will resist flow until it yields and cracks, due to its limited plastic deformation and low yield strength.\n\nA number of possible binding agents, amongst Arabic gum, clay, lime, egg white and resin, have been suggested to help in the binding process. Although traces of clay have been found in most Pharaonic faience, reconstruction experiments showed that clay, organic gums or lime while successfully improving the wet working performance, failed to improve the fired strength of the faience, or proved the gum was too sticky for the removal of objects from their molds. The use of alkalis as binders, in the form of natron or plant ash, produced suitable results in experiments. Pulverized glass or sintered material of similar composition could also enhance the fired strength of faience bodies: the compositions of such glasses is in fact comparable to the published compositions of New Kingdom glass.\n\nThree methods have been hypothesized to shape the body of faience objects: modeling, moulding and abrasion, the last being used in conjunction with the first two. Modeling, scraping and grinding are the techniques most widely used in earlier times, as represented in the material qualities of Predynastic and Protodynastic faience objects. Predynastic bead manufacture is essentially a cold technology, more akin to stone working than glass: a general form of faience is modeled, possibly free formed by hand, then holes are drilled to create beads.\n\nIn the Middle Kingdom, the techniques employed are molding and forming on a core, sometimes in conjunction with intermediate layers between the glaze and the body. Marbleized faience, resulting from the working of different colored faience bodies together, so as to produce a uniform adherent body, also appears in this period. Towards the end of the Middle Kingdom, incising, inlaying and resisting techniques appear: these were bound to become progressively popular towards the New Kingdom. In the New Kingdom, beads, amulets and finger rings are produced by a combination of modeling and molding techniques. In this period, sculptural detail is created using inlays of different colored faience or by scraping the body to reveal the white intermediate layer in relief. Moulding was first applied to faience manufacture in the Middle Kingdom by forming a model of an object, or employing a finished faience piece, impressing it in wet clay, and later by firing the clay to create a durable mold. The faience paste could then be pressed into the mold, and following drying, be re-worked through surface abrasion before firing. Moulds could facilitate mass production of faience objects such as amulets rings and inlays, as evidenced by the several thousand of small open face, earth-ware clay molds excavated at Tell el Amarna.\nWheel throwing, possibly occurring from the New Kingdom onwards, is certainly established by the Greco-Roman period, when large amounts of clay seem to have been added to the faience body. Because of the limited plasticity of faience, rendering throwing extremely difficult, a progressive increase of clay in the faience bodies culminating in the quartz, clay and glass frit bodies of Islamic times, is observed in the archaeological record.\n\nPtolemaic and Roman faience tends to be typologically and technologically distinct from the earlier material: it is characterized by the widespread use of moulding and high relief on vessels. A very unusual and finely made group of figures of deities and falcons in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, apparently representing hieroglyphs that are elements from a royal inscription, perhaps from a wooden shrine, is decorated in a form of champleve (typically a technique for enamel on metal). Depressions in the faience body were filled with coloured \"vitreous pastes\" and refired, followed by polishing.\n\nThe technology of glazing a siliceous body with a soda lime silica glaze employs various methods discovered over time: namely application, efflorescence and cementation glazing.\n\nIn the application method, formerly assumed to be the only one used for faience glazing; silica, lime and alkalis are ground in the raw state to a small particle size, thus mixed in water to form a slurry which is then applied to the quartz core. Partial fritting of the slurry favors the first stages of vitrification, which in turn lowers the final firing temperature. The slurry can be then applied to the body, through brushing or dipping, to create a fine, powdery coating. Upon firing, the water from the melting glaze partially diffuses in the sand body, sintering the quartz particles and thus creating some solid bridges in the body.\n\nIn the self-glazing process of efflorescence, the glazing materials, in the form of water-soluble alkali salts, are mixed with the raw crushed quartz of the core of the object. As the water in the body evaporates, the salts migrate to the surface of the object to recrystallize, creating a thin surface, which glazes upon firing.\n\nCementation glazing, a technique discovered in the Middle Kingdom, is also a self-glazing technique. The possibility of the existence of cementation glazing, also known as 'Qom technique', followed the observation of this method in use at the village of 'Qom' in Iran in the 1960s. In this method the artifact, while buried in a glazing powder with a high flux content, is heated inside a vessel, causing the fusion of the object with the cement. During firing, the flux migrates to the quartz and combines with it to form a glassy coating.\nA vapour glaze reaction similar to salt glazing, as an alternative glazing process, has been suggested. In this process, the vaporization or dissociation of salts leads to vapour transport through the enveloping powder to the quartz body where a glaze is formed.\n\nAlthough glaze compositions vary regionally and chronologically, depending on the formation of the body and the glazing process employed, objects produced with different glazing techniques do not exhibit immediate diagnostic chemical variations in their compositions. The recognition of the various glazing techniques, through microscopic observations of the degree of sintering and the vitreous phase of quartz body, is also ambiguous. For instance, objects with applied glazes and those which may have been glazed by efflorescence have overlapping characteristic features. The following proposed criteria are subject to variation caused by increases in flux concentration, firing temperatures and time at peak temperatures.\n\n\"Recognition of application glazing\"- Macroscopically, applied glazes vary in thickness through the body, displaying thicker glazes on bases. The traces of kiln supports, as well as the characteristic tendency to run and drip leading to pooling, may indicate the orientation of the object during firing. In high magnification observations, the interface boundary of body and glaze appears well defined. The absence of interstitial glass in the core is characteristic of application glazing: however, the possibility of adding glazing mixture to the quartz sand body, as well as the use of pre-melted glazes in the later periods, can predictably increase the degree of sintering of the core\n\n\"Recognition of cementation\"- Objects glazed through cementation display a thin even glaze all over the body, with no drying or firing marks, and portray a fairly friable and soft body Microscopically, the concentration of copper characteristically decreases from the surface: the interaction layer is thin and well defined and the interstitial glass is absent with exception to the vicinity of the boundary layer.\n\n\"Recognition of efflorescence glazing\"- Pieces glazed by efflorescence may show traces of stand marks: the glaze appears thick and prone to cracking, thinning toward the edge of the piece and in concave areas. In high magnification the interstitial glass is extensive; the unreacted salts which have not reached the surface fuse of the body accumulate in the core, creating bridges between the quartz particles.\n\nAn extensive literature has accumulated in attempt to explain the processing of Egyptian faience and develop an adequate typology that encompasses both technological choices and chemical variations of faience bodies. Body color, density and luster provided the basis of the first typology developed for faience: seven variants were proposed by Lucas and Harris and still permit the archaeologist to distinguish faience objects during field sorting.\n\nMost of the seven variants introduced by Lucas fail to recognize the glazing technology utilized or to suggest the stylistic and technological choices embedded in the manufacture of a faience object. However, variant A describes a technologically unique product and as such is still applicable: it has a finely ground underglaze consisting of quartz particles in a glass matrix, often revealed by incisions or depressions cut into the overlying glaze. Glassy faience, variant E, displays no distinct outer layer from the interior, thus it has been suggested that the term 'faience' is a misnomer and the alternative name 'imperfect glass' has been advised. Regarding variant F specimens, Lucas suggests the use of lead glazes, however it appears that lead glazing was never practiced in Ancient Egypt.\n\nThe excavations led by Petrie at Tell-Amarna and Naucratis have reported finding workshop evidence.\nNicholson explains, however, that while a square furnace-like structure at Amarna may be related to faience production, Petrie did not encounter any actual faience Kilns at the site. Lucas documented a large number of molds at the palace area of Amenhotep III, at Qantir from Dynasties 19-20 and at the palace area of Naucratis also described in different sources as a scarab maker's and faience factory. However, seeing there is a lack of carefully documented archaeological evidence as to the nature of faience factory sites, direct information about the glazing process does not exist.\nAlthough recent excavations at the archaeological sites of Abydos and Amarna have supplemented our knowledge of the ancient production of faience gained from the earlier excavated sites of Lisht, Memphis and Naukratis, the differentiation of glass furnaces from faience kilns still remains problematic. Replication experiments, using modern kilns and replica faience pastes, indicate that faience is fired in the range of 800-1000°\nA number of ceramists are experimenting with Egyptian faience, though some of the compositions bear only a passing resemblance to the original Egyptian formulae. There has also been a recent interest in the use of Egyptian faience in 3-d printing technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5544203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5544203", "title": "Eshkaft-e Siahoo", "text": "Eshkaft-e Siahoo\n\nEshkaft-e Siahoo (), which means \"black cave\" in the dialect of the people of the region, is a 10,000-year-old neolithic stone dwelling near Rahmat Mountain in the Marvdasht Plain in the Fars province, Iran. The cave was discovered in June 2006. \n"}
{"id": "3022106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3022106", "title": "Europeanisation", "text": "Europeanisation\n\nEuropeanisation (or Europeanization, see spelling differences) refers to a number of related phenomena and patterns of change:\n\nEuropeanisation in political science has been referred to very generally as 'becoming more European like'. More specifically than this, it has been defined in a number of ways. One of the earliest conceptualisations of the term is by Ladrech (1994, 69) who defines Europeanisation simply as ‘an incremental process of re-orienting the direction and shape of politics to the extent that EC political and economic dynamics become part of the organisational logic of national politics and policy making.’\n\nThis emphasises what is known as the 'top-down approach' to Europeanisation with change emanating from the impact of the Union onto the national policy. The state is viewed as re-active towards changes in the union.\n\nAnother definition that needs to be taken into account is Radaelli, who describes Europeanisation as \"a process involving, a) construction, b) diffusion and c) institutionalisation of formal and informal rules, procedures, policy paradigms, styles, 'ways of doing things' and shared beliefs and norms which are first defined and consolidated in the EU policy process and then incorporated in the logic of domestic (national and subnational) discourse, political structures and public choices.\"\n\nMore recently, Moumoutzis (2011: 612) has revised Radaelli's definition and he has argued that Europeanisation should be defined as 'a\nprocess of incorporation in the logic of domestic (national and sub-national) discourse, political structures and public policies of formal and informal rules, procedures, policy paradigms, styles, “ways of doing things” and shared beliefs and norms that are first defined in the EU policy processes'.\n\nFrom a 'bottom-up' approach Europeanisation occurs when states begin to affect the policy of the European Union in a given area.\n\nA more nuanced analysis posits that the institutional interaction of policy actors at the various levels of European governance leads to the re-definition of national, regional and other identities within a European context, where the multiple levels of governance in Europe are not seen as \"necessarily\" in opposition to one another. An elected representative can, for example, see his loyalties and responsibilities as lying with Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain and Europe or with Amsterdam, Netherlands and Europe, for unitary states. Some scholars, including Samuel Huntington, argue that citizens of European states increasingly identify themselves as such, rather than Portuguese, British, French, German, Italian etc.\n\nAn obvious area of change is in the institutions of Europe; the enlargement of the European Union and the gradual acquisition of authority over the national member governments in numerous areas is creating a centralised European polity. The Economic and Monetary Union of the European Union would be an example of this; in this case, the nations using the euro have passed control of their monetary policy to the European Central Bank.\n\nAnother perspective of Europeanisation is the 'horizontal approach.' This approach takes into account the transfer of politics, policies and policy making between member states of the European Union. The transfer is based on a form of 'soft law' therefore it is not enforceable, but is based on 'best practice' and mutual recognition.\n\nWhether Europeanisation is a continuing process that will eventually lead to a full European government or whether centralisation will be unable to overcome persisting national identities and/or increasing interest in localism is a matter of some debate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "714451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714451", "title": "Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask) (book)", "text": "Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask) (book)\n\nEverything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask) is a book (1969, updated 1999) by U.S. physician David Reuben. It was one of the first sex manuals that entered mainstream culture in the 1960s, and had a profound effect on sex education and in liberalizing attitudes towards sex. It was the most popular non-fiction book of its era and became part of the Sexual Revolution of modern America.\n\nThe book was No. 1 best-seller in 51 countries and reached more than 100 million readers. In 1972 it was parodied by Woody Allen in the comedy film of the same name and received a favorable response from movie critics.\n"}
{"id": "491694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=491694", "title": "Fabriano", "text": "Fabriano\n\nFabriano is a town and \"comune\" of Ancona province in the Italian region of the Marche, at above sea level. It lies in the Esino valley upstream and southwest of Jesi; and east-northeast of Fossato di Vico and east of Gubbio (both in Umbria). Its location on the main highway and rail line from Umbria to the Adriatic make it a mid-sized regional center in the Apennines. Fabriano is the headquarters of the giant appliance maker Indesit.\n\nFabriano, with Bologna, is the only Italian creative city (UNESCO). The town is in the category \"Folk Arts\" (for the Fabriano's handmade paper production).\n\nFabriano appears to have been founded in the early Middle Ages by the inhabitants of a small Roman town south at Attiggio (Latin \"Attidium\"), of which some slight remains and inscriptions are extant. Fabriano itself was one of the earliest places in Europe to make high-quality paper on an industrial scale, starting in the 13th century, and the town even today has a reputation for fine watermarked paper. This led to Fabriano's prosperity in the Late Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and was also one of the factors that led to the establishment of nearby Foligno in Umbria as one of the earliest printing centers in Italy in the 15th century, from 1470 onwards.\n\nThe municipality borders with Cerreto d'Esi, Costacciaro (PG), Esanatoglia (MC), Fiuminata (MC), Fossato di Vico (PG), Genga, Gualdo Tadino (PG), Matelica (MC), Nocera Umbra (PG), Poggio San Vicino (MC), Sassoferrato, Serra San Quirico and Sigillo (PG).\n\nThe hamlets (\"frazioni\") of Fabriano are:\n\nAlbacina, Argignano, Attiggio, Bassano, Bastia, Belvedere, Borgo Tufico, Cacciano, Ca' Maiano, Campodiegoli, Campodonico, Cancelli, Cantia, Castelletta, Ceresola, Ciaramella, Coccore, Collamato, Collegiglioni, Colle Paganello, Cupo, Fontanaldo, Grotte, Marena, Marenella, Marischio, Melano, Moscano, Nebbiano, Paterno, Poggio San Romualdo, Precicchie, Rocchetta, Rucce, San Donato, San Giovanni, San Michele, San Pietro, Sant'Elia, Serradica, Valgiubbola, Vallemontagnana, Valleremita, Vallina, Varano, Viacce, Vigne.\n\nFabriano's wealth and commitment to the fine arts in the late medieval period have left it with many monuments.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2134287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134287", "title": "Feature (linguistics)", "text": "Feature (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, a feature is the assignment of binary or unary conditions which act as constraints.\n\nIn phonology, segments are categorized into natural classes on the basis of their distinctive features. Each feature is a quality or characteristic of the natural class, such as voice or manner. A unique combination of features defines a phoneme.\n\nExamples of phonemic or distinctive features are: [+/- voice ], [+/- ATR ] (binary features) and [ CORONAL ] (a unary feature; also a place feature).\n\nSurface representations can be expressed as the result of rules acting on the features of the underlying representation. These rules are formulated in terms of transformations on features.\n\nIn morphology and syntax, words are often organized into lexical categories or word classes, such as \"noun\", \"verb\", \"adjective\", and so on. These word classes have grammatical features (also called \"categories\" or \"inflectional categories\"), which can have one of a set of potential values (also called the \"property\", \"meaning\", or \"feature\" of the category).\n\nFor example, consider the pronoun in English. Pronouns are a \"lexical category\". Pronouns have the person \"feature\", which can have a \"value\" of \"first\", \"second\", or \"third\". English pronouns also have the number \"feature\", which can have a value of either \"singular\" or \"plural\". As a result, we can describe the English pronoun \"they\" as a pronoun with [person:3] and [number:plural].\n\nIn semantics, words are categorized into semantic classes. Intersecting semantic classes share the same semantic features.\n\n"}
{"id": "13621704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13621704", "title": "Golden Tara", "text": "Golden Tara\n\nThe Golden Tara is a 1.79 kilogram, 21 carat Majapahit period gold image of a Hindu goddess discovered in Esperanza, Agusan in 1918. When it was purchased by the Field Museum of Chicago, they renamed it as Agusan Gold Image, though this name is rejected by scholars in the Philippines.\n\nH. Otley Beyer believed that the image was that of a Hindu Sivaite goddess, but with the religiously important hand signals improperly copied by local workmen. Thus it suggests that Hinduism was already in the Philippines before Ferdinand Magellan arrived, but also suggests that the early Filipinos had an imperfect version of Hinduism which they got from the Majapahit.\n\nAfter its discovery in 1918 by a Manobo woman named Bilay Campos, it was stolen while being safeguarded inside a hidden chest inside her traditional Manobo house. Before being stolen, the tribe of Manobos, where Campos belonged to, viewed the Golden Tara as a \"diwata\", a nature spirit deemed to protect the vastness of their ancestral domain's rainforests and waterways. Later on, the artifact would land in the possession of the area's governor for unknown links. The artifact would later be sold in a multinational company, where the governor was indebted to with a large sum of money. For unknown reasons, the artifact eventually landed for auction, prompting H. Otley Beyer to demand the Philippine government to buy the artifact for the sake of the National Museum of the Philippines and the Philippine nation. However, during that time, the country was in deep financial constraint, and was unable to buy the artifact. The Golden Tara was purchased by the Field Museum of Natural History of Chicago, Illinois in 1922 for a sum of approximately 4,000 pesos. According to the Field Museum, the artifact was purchased to save it from being melted at the time because the Philippines was having a hard time with its finances, which may have led to the minting of the artifact to aid in the country's financial losses. The purchase was funded through a campaign in Chicago to buy the artifact, with the aid of the American government, which at the time was also the colonial government in the Philippines. By 2010, the artifact's price has risen to approximately 1.5 million Philippine pesos.\nThe artifact has been a source of conflict between Filipinos and Americans for many years as many Filipino scholars have demanded for the return of the Golden Tara, as it is a national treasure of the country, unreported during the time of discovery, and sold to Americans during a great financial loss to the country - the very reason why the Philippine government at the time was not able to buy the artifact when it was auctioned. Scholars have argued that if the reason why the Field Museum took the artifact was because they fear that it may have been melted down, why has the Field Museum not returned or at least let the Philippines buy the artifact back since no group in the Philippines advocates for its melting anymore. On top of the argument is the cunning way the artifact was bought by an American museum during a time when the Philippines was in financial constraint under the colonial government of America. One of the major protesters for the return of the Golden Tara to Philippine possession is former senator Aquilino Pimentel Jr., who made his last privilege speech in the Senate specifically for the purpose of returning the Golden Tara to the Philippines. The Field Museum in Chicago has said that it may return the Golden Tara if it is 'strongly requested' by the Philippine government. In April 2018, a documentary from GMA Network featured the Golden Tara again, this time showing the people of Agusan del Sur supporting the return of the Golden Tara into the Philippines. Scholars have also found the document proving the right to claim of the Philippines on the Golden Tara. The scholars, in partnership with the government, have been tasked to pursue the Philippine claim on the Golden Tara, housed in the Field Museum in Chicago, United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "38372955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38372955", "title": "Günter Grönbold", "text": "Günter Grönbold\n\nGünter Grönbold (Munich, 18 September 1943) is a German Indologist and Tibetologist. He was head of the Oriental Section at the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek Munich. He is an authority on the Pāli Canon and the Buddhist art of the Silk Road and has translated various Sanskrit and Tibetan texts into German.\n\nHe is best known outside the field of Tibetology and Indology for a side step from his work in Buddhist texts to review the evidence for the belief of a visit of Jesus in India and the Roza Bal \"tomb of Jesus\" in Srinagar taught as part of Jesus in Ahmadiyya Islam - which Grönbold critically dismisses.\n\n"}
{"id": "25805012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25805012", "title": "Herbchronology", "text": "Herbchronology\n\nHerbchronology is the analysis of annual growth rings (or simply annual rings) in the secondary root xylem of perennial herbaceous plants. While leaves and stems of perennial herbs die down at the end of the growing season the root often persists for many years or even the entire life. Perennial herb species belonging to the dicotyledon group (also known as perennial forbs) are characterized by secondary growth, which shows as a new growth ring added each year to persistent roots. About two thirds of all perennial dicotyledonous herb species with a persistent root that grow in the strongly seasonal zone of the northern hemisphere show at least fairly clear annual growth rings.\n\nCounting of annual growth rings can be used to determine the age of a perennial herb similarly as it is done in trees using dendrochronology. This way it was found that some perennial herbs live up to 50 years and more.\n\nThe term herb-chronology is referring to dendrochronology because of the similarity of the structures investigated. The term was introduced in the late 1990s, however, the existence of annual rings in perennial herbs was already observed in earlier times by several researchers.\n\nLike trees and woody plants, perennial herbs have a growth zone called vascular cambium between the root bark and the root xylem. The vascular cambium ring is active during growing season and produces a new layer of xylem tissue or growth ring every year. This addition of a new lateral layer each year is called secondary growth and is exactly the same as in woody plants. Each individual growth ring consists of earlywood tissue that is formed at the beginning of the growing season and latewood tissue formed in summer and fall. Earlywood tissue is characterized by wide vessels or denser arrangement of vessels, whereas latewood tissue shows narrower vessels and/or lower vessel density.\n\nAnnual growth rings in herbs are usually only visible by means of a microscope and a specific staining method. Ring-like patterns visible in roots cross sections by the naked eye may be false rings.\n\nThe width of annual growth rings depends on conditions during formation; in a favorable year it is wider and in a less favorable year narrower.\n\nHerbchronology is used in many fields of ecological and biological research, for instance in community ecology, population biology, plant ecology and invasion biology.\n\nHerbchronology is used as a tool to estimate plant age. This may be relevant information to determine :\n\nHerbchronology allows to assess long-term annual growth rates of a perennial herbaceous plant without having to monitor it. This may be relevant information to assess …\n\n"}
{"id": "55363309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55363309", "title": "History of magnetic resonance imaging", "text": "History of magnetic resonance imaging\n\nThe history of magnetic resonance imaging includes many researchers who have contributed to the discovery NMR and described its underlying physics, but it is regarded as having been invented by Paul C. Lauterbur in September 1971; he published the theory behind it in March 1973. The factors leading to image contrast (differences in tissue relaxation time values) had been described nearly 20 years earlier by Erik Odeblad (doctor and scientist) and Gunnar Lindström.\n\nIn 1950, spin echoes and free induction decay were first detected by Erwin Hahn and in 1952, Herman Carr produced a one-dimensional NMR spectrum as reported in his Harvard PhD thesis. \n\nThe next step (from spectra to imaging) was proposed by Vladislav Ivanov in Soviet Union, who filed in 1960 a patent application for a Magnetic Resonance Imaging device. Ivanov's main contribution was the idea of using magnetic field gradient, combined with a selective frequency excitation/readout, to encode the spatial coordinates. \nIn modern terms, it was only proton-density (not relaxation times) imaging, which was also slow since, only one gradient direction was used at a time and the imaging had to be done slice-by-slice. Nevertheless, it was a true Magnetic Resonance Imaging procedure that finds a limited use even today. Originally rejected as \"improbable\", Ivanov's application was finally approved in 1984 (with the original priority date), . \n\nBy 1959, Jay Singer had studied blood flow by NMR relaxation time measurements of blood in living humans. Such measurements were not introduced into common medical practice until the mid-1980s, although a patent for a whole-body NMR machine to measure blood flow in the human body was already filed by Alexander Ganssen in early 1967.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s the results of a very large amount of work on relaxation, diffusion, and chemical exchange of water in cells and tissues of various types appeared in the scientific literature. In 1967, Ligon reported the measurement of NMR relaxation of water in the arms of living human subjects. In 1968, Jackson and Langham published the first NMR signals from a living animal, an anesthetized rat.\nIn a March 1971 paper in the journal \"Science\", Raymond Damadian, an Armenian-American doctor and professor at the Downstate Medical Center State University of New York (SUNY), reported that tumors and normal tissue can be distinguished in vivo by nuclear magnetic resonance (\"NMR\"). He suggested that these differences could be used to diagnose cancer, though later research would find that these differences, while real, are too variable for diagnostic purposes. Damadian's initial methods were flawed for practical use, relying on a point-by-point scan of the entire body and using relaxation rates, which turned out not to be an effective indicator of cancerous tissue. While researching the analytical properties of magnetic resonance, Damadian created a hypothetical magnetic resonance cancer-detecting machine in 1972. He filed the first patent for such a machine, on March 17, 1972, which was later issued to him on February 5, 1974. Lawrence Bennett and Dr. Irwin Weisman also found in 1972 that neoplasms display different relaxation times than corresponding normal tissue. Zenuemon Abe and his colleagues applied the patent for targeted NMR scanner, on 1973. They published this technique in 1974. Damadian claims to have invented the MRI.\n\nThe US National Science Foundation notes \"The patent included the idea of using NMR to 'scan' the human body to locate cancerous tissue.\" However, it did not describe a method for generating pictures from such a scan or precisely how such a scan might be done. Meanwhile, Paul Lauterbur at Stony Brook University expanded on Carr's technique and developed a way to generate the first MRI images, in 2D and 3D, using gradients. In 1973, Lauterbur published the first nuclear magnetic resonance image and the first cross-sectional image of a living mouse in January 1974. In the late 1970s, Peter Mansfield, a physicist and professor at the University of Nottingham, England, developed the echo-planar imaging (EPI) technique that would lead to scans taking seconds rather than hours and produce clearer images than Lauterbur had. Damadian, along with Larry Minkoff and Michael Goldsmith, obtained an image of a tumor in the thorax of a mouse in 1976. They also performed the first MRI body scan of a human being on July 3, 1977, studies they published in 1977. In 1979, Richard S. Likes filed a patent on k-space .\nDuring the 1970s a team led by John Mallard built the first full-body MRI scanner at the University of Aberdeen. On 28 August 1980 they used this machine to obtain the first clinically useful image of a patient's internal tissues using MRI, which identified a primary tumour in the patient's chest, an abnormal liver, and secondary cancer in his bones. This machine was later used at St Bartholomew's Hospital, in London, from 1983 to 1993. Mallard and his team are credited for technological advances that led to the widespread introduction of MRI.\n\nIn 1975, the University of California, San Francisco Radiology Department founded the Radiologic Imaging Laboratory (RIL). With the support of Pfizer, Diasonics, and later Toshiba America MRI, the lab developed new imaging technology and installed systems in the US and worldwide. In 1981 RIL researchers, including Leon Kaufman and Lawrence Crooks, published \"Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Medicine\". In the 1980s the book was considered the definitive introductory textbook to the subject.\n\nIn 1980 Paul Bottomley joined the GE Research Center in Schenectady, New York. His team ordered the highest field-strength magnet then available, a 1.5 T system, and built the first high-field device, overcoming problems of coil design, RF penetration and signal-to-noise ratio to build the first whole-body MRI/MRS scanner. The results translated into the highly successful 1.5 T MRI product-line, with over 20,000 systems in use today. In 1982, Bottomley performed the first localized MRS in the human heart and brain. After starting a collaboration on heart applications with Robert Weiss at Johns Hopkins, Bottomley returned to the university in 1994 as Russell Morgan Professor and director of the MR Research Division.\n\nIn 1986, Charles L. Dumoulin and Howard R. Hart at General Electric developed MR angiography and , obtained the first images and later patented diffusion MRI. In 1988, Arno Villringer and colleagues demonstrated that susceptibility contrast agents may be employed in perfusion MRI. In 1990, Seiji Ogawa at AT&T Bell labs recognized that oxygen-depleted blood with dHb was attracted to a magnetic field, and discovered the technique that underlies Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI).\n\nIn the early 1990s, Peter Basser and Le Bihan working at NIH, and Aaron Filler, Franklyn Howe and colleagues published the first DTI and tractographic brain images. Joseph Hajnal, Young and Graeme Bydder described the use of FLAIR pulse sequence to demonstrate high signal regions in normal white matter in 1992. In the same year, arterial spin labelling was developed by John Detre and Alan P. Koretsky. In 1997, Jürgen R. Reichenbach, E. Mark Haacke and coworkers at Washington University developed Susceptibility weighted imaging.\n\nAlthough MRI is most commonly performed in the clinic at 1.5 T, higher fields such as 3 T for clinical imaging and more recently 7 T for research purposes are gaining more popularity because of their increased sensitivity and resolution. In research laboratories, human studies have been performed at up to 9.4 T and animal studies have been performed at up to 21.1 T.\n\nReflecting the fundamental importance and applicability of MRI in medicine, Paul Lauterbur of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Sir Peter Mansfield of the University of Nottingham were awarded the 2003 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their \"discoveries concerning magnetic resonance imaging\". The Nobel citation acknowledged Lauterbur's insight of using magnetic field gradients to determine spatial localization, a discovery that allowed rapid acquisition of 2D images. Mansfield was credited with introducing the mathematical formalism and developing techniques for efficient gradient utilization and fast imaging. The actual research that won the prize was done almost 30 years before while Paul Lauterbur was a professor in the Department of Chemistry at Stony Brook University in New York.\n"}
{"id": "12689262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12689262", "title": "Indian Council of Historical Research", "text": "Indian Council of Historical Research\n\nThe Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) is an autonomous body of the Ministry of Human Resource Development, which had been established by an Administrative Order of the then Ministry of Education. The body, over many years, has provided financial assistance to the historians and direction to the research scholars in their multifarious topics of historical research through established historians and scholars of the country.\n\nICHR disburses funds for carrying out research to Indian as well as foreign scholars on their applications for fellowships, grants, and symposia, made to the Indian Council of Historical Research or through the Ministry of Human Resource Development.\n\nThe source of the funds at the disposal of the ICHR is grants-in-aid received from the Department of Higher Education in the Ministry of Human Resource Development, grants-in-aid from various Indian states, private donations from individuals and other countries, and the proceeds of revenues from the sale of publications of the ICHR.\n\nThe ICHR has a rich corpus of funds which has been continued to be deposited with UCO Bank at Ferozeshah Road, New Delhi. It is the only academic institution which chose to keep its deposit with a non-state bank of India.\n\nBased in Delhi with regional centers in Bengaluru (Karnataka) and Guwahati (Assam), the Indian Council for Historical Research has served the scholar community. The Regional Center of the ICHR at Bengaluru was established by eminent liberal historian Professor S Settar, the then Chairman of ICHR, and the then Director of ICHR, Dr Sushil Kumar. The Regional Center at Gauhati was established at the instance of the Minister of State hailing from Assam commenced functioning in the library wing of Guwahati University. \n\nThe Government of India has entered into cultural exchange programmes with many countries of the world for an exchange of historians and exchange of views between them.\n\nThe ICHR was formed as a literary and charitable society, a fully funded autonomous body of the Ministry of Education with the historians R.S. Sharma the then Head Department of History, Delhi University, nominated as its first chairman, ICHR, Satish Chandra, J.S. Garewal and M.N. Prasad, the then the Director of the National Archives of India at the helm. The present Chairman of ICHR Professor Sudershan Rao is an eminent historian and member secretary is Dr. Anand Shanker Singh \n\nSome of the notable historian members/functionaries of the Indian Council have been Irfan Habib, Sushil Kumar, Tapan Raychaudhuri, and Barun De.\n\nSince the ICHR has continued to be fully funded by the government of India, and all the administrative and fiscal policies of the government are applicable to its affairs, the government of India carries out a periodical review of the functioning of ICHR.\n\nThe first review of the ICHR was ordered in 1981, the second in 1999, and the third in March 2011.\n\nThe objectives of the ICHR, as enunciated in the initial pamphlet published by the Department of Education, Government of India in 1972, are as under:\n\n\nICHR, as mentioned above, is fully funded by grants-in-aid received from the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development. ICHR also receives funds from the various state governments of India, also from other Ministries of the government of India. The government has signed Cultural Exchange Programs (CEP) with many countries with the exception of the US and the UK. The host countries provide funds to the Scholars visiting under CEP.\n\nThe audit of the funds/grants-in aid in respect of the ICHR is regularly carried out by the Director General of Audit and Central Revenue (DGA&CR). The audit replies are required to be furnished by a permanent incumbent and the senior-most regular employee of the Council viz the Director, Indian Council of Historical Research.\n\nA copy of the Yearly Audit Report is also marked to the Secretary, Department of Higher Education as also the replies of the Audit Paras/observations.\n\nThere is no deadline for submitting applications for fellowships and Grants from the ICHR. These are received throughout the year. However the meetings of the Research Grant Committees are held at regular intervals, after the receipt of the expert opinions upon the submitted applications as to the viability of a research project and/or symposia on the convenience of its chairman. The details of the fellowships and grants made by the ICHR are:\n\n\nThe ICHR, unlike its sister research body, the Indian Council of Social Science Research, which had been formed by an Act of the Parliament, has no office building of its own. It has continued to be housed in a building belonging to the Jawaharlal Nehru University, at 35 Ferozeshah Road, New Delhi, since 1972.\n\nThe organization of the ICHR is headed by the Honorary Chairman with the Member Secretary functions as the Secretary of the Governing Council of ICHR during its General Body and specially called for meetings. The Member Secretary, ICHR is functions as the day to day Head of the Department in ICHR.\n\nThe Members of the Council of ICHR (Governing Body) are nominated for a period of three Years. The Chairman of the Council of ICHR is nominated by the Department of Education in an honorary capacity and his term is not co-terminus with that of the members of the Constituted Council. The day-to-day functioning of the ICHR is looked after the Director who acts as \" ex officio\" Member Secretary of the Council. In 1991, a trend was started to have a separate post of Member Secretary of the ICHR, with Professor MGS Narayanan being selected as the First Member Secretary of ICHR. The institution has been continually embroiled in intra-rivalries between the Chairmen, Member Secretaries and the Directors, at the cost of historical research. The main reason, as per many, has been the deputing of persons from here and there as the Member Secretaries and the undermining the office of the Chairman and the Director of the institution.\n\n\n\n\nThe ICHR Council consists of the following members:\n\nThe Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India has announced the nomination of 18 members of the Council for a term of three years, at present:\nProf. Saradindu Mukherji\nProf. Dilip K. Chakrabarti\nProf. Ishwar Sharan Vishwakarma\nProf. Narayan Rao\nProf. R.S. Agarawal\nDr. Rahman Ali\nProf. P.T. Haridas\nProf. Gangmumei Kamei\nProf. Nanditha Krishna\nProf. C.I. Issac\nProf. Purabi Roy\nDr. Meenakshi Jain\nProf. Nikhilesh Guha\nProf. Michel Danino\nProf. K. Ratnam\nProf. Baidyanath Labh\nProf. Sacchidananda Sahai\nProf. M.D. Srinivas\n\nThe directory of the permanent officers / employees of the ICHR, originally sanctioned by the Government of India is as follows:\n\n\nThe ICHR publishes online as well as on print media. The Chairman's Column, re-termed as Chairman's Diary by its current incumbent, has only recently been updated in January 2015 after almost a year. The list of the Members of the Council, even though revised by the Government is still as old as July 2014, carrying even the names who are no longer members of the ICHR.\n\nThe ICHR publishes two journals: the \"Indian Historical Review\" (bi-annually) and \"Itihas\" (in Hindi). It also provides publication subsidies to seminars, books, congress proceedings and journals. The editing and publication has been outsourced to certain publishing houses.\n\n"}
{"id": "51516681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51516681", "title": "Janik Bastien-Charlebois", "text": "Janik Bastien-Charlebois\n\nJanik Bastien-Charlebois is an intersex woman, sociology professor, and advocate for intersex rights. She teaches at the Université du Québec à Montréal, and her areas of study include cultural democracy, testimony, epistemology, homophobia and feminism.\n\nIn an interview with the Montreal Gazette, and with Être, Bastien-Charlebois describes the medical \"normalization\" of her body at age 17 as a process of dispossession. Her activism began slowly following a meeting with Curtis Hinkle, the founder of Organisation Intersex International, in Montreal in 2005. She has participated in the second and third International Intersex Forums.\n\nJanik Bastien-Charlebois is a professor in the Department of Sociology at the Université du Québec à Montréal, where she works in research groups on \"Testimonial Cultures\", homophobia, and the Institute for Research on Feminist Studies. During 2014 and 2015, Bastien-Charlebois was a visiting scholar at the Centre for Transdisciplinary Gender Studies (Zentrum für transdisziplinäre Geschlechterstudien), Humboldt University of Berlin.\n\nHer book, \"La virilité en jeu (Manhood at stake)\", examines the inevitability of boys' homophobic behaviors through interviews with adolescent boys. Bastien-Charlebois disputes arguments focused on human nature and male identity formation, suggesting instead that heterosexuality is socially constructed.\n\nIn recent work, Bastien-Charlebois critiques the medical treatment of intersex voices.\n\nBastien-Charlebois speaks internationally, and has been interviewed by the Montreal Gazette, Le Nouvelliste, Le Devoir and Être.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2680258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2680258", "title": "Jewish Autonomism", "text": "Jewish Autonomism\n\nJewish Autonomism was a non-Zionist political movement that emerged in Eastern Europe in the late 19th and early 20th century. One of its major proponents was the historian and activist Simon Dubnow, who also called his ideology folkism.\nThe Autonomists believed that the future survival of the Jews as a nation depends on their spiritual and cultural strength, in developing \"spiritual nationhood\" and in viability of Jewish diaspora as long as Jewish communities maintain self-rule, and rejected assimilation. Autonomists often stressed the vitality of modern Yiddish culture.\n\nVarious concepts of the Autonomism were adopted in the platforms of the Folkspartei, the Sejmists and socialist Jewish parties such as the Bund.\n\nSome groups blended Autonomism with Zionism: they favored Jewish self-rule in the diaspora until diaspora Jews make Aliyah to their national homeland in Zion.\n\nThe movement's beliefs were similar to those of the Austromarxists, who advocated national personal autonomy within the multinational Austro-Hungarian empire, and cultural pluralists in America, such as Randolph Bourne and Horace Kallen.\n\nIn 1941, Simon Dubnow was one of thousands of Jews murdered in the Rumbula massacre. After the Holocaust, the notion of Autonomism practically disappeared from Jewish philosophy.\n\nIt is not connected to the contemporary political movement autonomism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9559107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9559107", "title": "John Fraser (Celticist)", "text": "John Fraser (Celticist)\n\nJohn Fraser (1882 – 18 May 1945) was Jesus Professor of Celtic at the University of Oxford.\n\nHe was born in Inverness, Scotland, and studied at the University of Aberdeen, Trinity College Cambridge and the University of Jena. After lecturing in Celtic at Aberdeen University, he was appointed Jesus Professor of Celtic in 1921, becoming thereby a Professorial Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford. He held the position until his death in 1945.\n\nHe had a particular research interest in Scottish Gaelic and Scottish place name studies, but left no substantial work beyond his many contributions to learned periodicals. His papers are now held by Aberdeen University.\n"}
{"id": "55551026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55551026", "title": "Kiukainen culture", "text": "Kiukainen culture\n\nThe Kiukainen culture was the last Stone Age culture of the southwestern coast of Finland, dating to 2000–1500/1300 BC. Its material culture combined elements from Pit–Comb Ware and Corded Ware cultures. The area of Kiukainen culture ranged from the shore of Kvarken to Vyborg Bay.\n"}
{"id": "6196097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6196097", "title": "Law and development", "text": "Law and development\n\nLaw and development is an interdisciplinary study of law and economic and social development. It examines the relation between law and development and analyzes how to use law as an instrument to promote economic and social development.\n\nIn the 1960s, some American organizations such as the U.S. Agency for International Development and the Ford Foundation sponsored the law reform in developing countries. Legal scholars from leading American law schools wrote many articles discussing the contribution of law reform to economic development. This was called the law and development movement. However, after only one decade, both key involved scholars and former Ford Foundation officials declared this movement failed.\n\nThe presumably failed law and development revived in the 1980s, with the proliferation of law reform projects based on neoliberal ideals. These projects supported liberal reforms such as privatization and trade liberalization, with the emphasis on the rule of law. Substantial investments were made on these projects by international development agencies such as the World Bank, USAID, and other public agencies and private foundations, but these law reform projects were criticized for being ineffective or causing adverse impacts on development in many places in the world. \n\nThe cause of the failure in the first and second law and development movements is that the law reform projects were developed and implemented without sufficient understanding of the mechanism by which LFIs impact economic and social development, which is affected by various socio-economic factors on the ground. The Law and Development Institute was set up in 2009 to promote studies in law and development and develop a comprehensive analytical model for law and development, and the Law and Development Review was launched in 2008 as the only peer-reviewed academic journal devoted to law and development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14164028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14164028", "title": "Legal research in the United States", "text": "Legal research in the United States\n\nLegal research is the process of identifying and retrieving information to support legal arguments and decisions. Finding relevant legal information can be challenging and may involve the use of electronic research tools as well as printed books and materials. However, many resources that are useful for legal research are fee-based, and many are not easily accessible.\n\nThere is no one right way to do legal research. There are however practices that have proven to be more efficient and cost effective. A general search strategy might be:\n\n\nYou may be able to find a topic-specific research guide by searching online, or from a local library.\n\nPrimary sources of law are the original sources of the law. Such sources include statutes, government regulations, case law and the text of the state and federal constitutions.\n\nThe Judicial branch is the court system. Each jurisdiction in the U.S. judiciary (federal and the fifty states) has any number of courts, usually one of three types:\n\nOn the federal level, there is a Supreme Court of the United States, United States court of appeals, and a trial court, which is known as the United States district court. The federal appellate courts are subdivided into numbered \"circuits.\" Pennsylvania, for example, is in the jurisdiction of the Third Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nIn general, the decisions of a higher court in a court system may be considered \"binding\" on the lower courts in that court system. The decisions of the Supreme court of a particular state are binding on the courts within that state. However, the decisions of a Pennsylvania state court may or may not be followed by a federal court in the Third Circuit, which includes Pennsylvania. The status of United States Supreme court opinions is complex, but U.S. Supreme Court decisions are final on both federal disputes and federal issues raised in state courts.\n\nOnly a small percentage of court decisions are officially published in a print court reporter. The most published decisions are issued by the United States Supreme court. State trial courts produce the lowest percentage of published cases. Some courts provide copies of their decisions free on the web while others do not. Even if they are on the web they seldom go back before 1994, when the web first became popular. The only exception is with U.S. Supreme Court opinions.\n\nCases on the web can often be found via the website of the individual court. The Supreme Court of the United States, for example, provides the text of recent opinions on its website. It is one of the best places to obtain new opinions. The United States court of appeals and State courts can also be a source of free legal information.\n\nIn print, to find the cases, legal researchers use indexes of various types. Classification systems provide index terms. For example, there may be a category of law, torts (non-crime injuries to people). There are many types of torts, or causes of Action, such as slander. These causes of actions have various elements which must be proved to establish a claim (there may also be various defenses). The general category, the cause of action and the various elements of the cause of action and defenses may all be index terms. The major classification for finding law cases is the West American Digest System.\n\nThe key to using legal indexes is to identify not only the key facts but the legal issues which are central to the case. Keyword searches in databases may also be a challenge, because people may describe legal concepts in varying ways. \"Issue spotting\" is a skill that lawyers hone in law school and throughout their careers as they gain experience. For the layperson, reading secondary sources, such as books and journal articles, can help.\n\nOnce a case has been found, legal researchers must make sure that it has not been overturned by a higher court. Lawyers use citators such as Shepard's Citations to make sure that their case is still \"good law.\" This process is often known as \"Shepardizing\" after the name of the service. Citators track resources, written at a later point in time, which cite back to a particular case. Because cases cite to related cases, citators can be used to find cases which are on the same topic. A common research strategy is to use \"one good case\" to find related cases.\n\nLegal forms can be some of the hardest documents to find because one person may call a form by one name while another person knows it by an entirely different name (neither of which may be the actual, official name of the form). The same form may be known by a different name in a different jurisdiction. Law libraries often have many sets of formbooks to search.\n\nLegal researchers may also need the briefs and other background materials connected with a case, which are included in docket records. Other types of documents may exist in databases which cannot be searched with search engines such as Google. These 'invisible web' sources may take time to ferret out.\n\nSome jurisdictions provide copies of their statutes online while others do not. You can often find new, or \"slip laws\" on the web (arranged in chronological order), as well as the subject arrangement of the statutes, known as the codified version, or code. The official code for federal statutes, the \"United States Code\" is usually one to two years out of date both in print and on the web. Legal Researchers often use the more timely, commercially published \"United States Code Annotated\" (USCA) or the \"United States Code Service\" (USCS). The USCA is available on Westlaw while the USCS is available on Lexis. They are called 'annotated codes' because they include summaries of cases which interpret the meaning of the statute. They may also include references to journal articles, legal encyclopedias and other research materials.\n\nIn addition to the text of the current law itself, legal researchers may also have to research the background documents connected with the statute, which is known as Legislative history. Legislative history is used to find what is known as the \"legislative intent,\" or purpose behind statutory language. Again, legislative history documents may be found both in print in law libraries and government documents libraries, as well as in online formats such as Lexis and Westlaw.\n\nTHOMAS the Library of Congress legislative information service, provides the fulltext of proposed bills, bill status information (did it become a public law? who sponsored it? what committee was it referred to?), the text of debates from the \"Congressional Record\", the full text of committee reports and other legislative information. The Library of Congress provides access to legislative documents from 1774 through 1875 as part of its American Memory Project Century of Lawmaking for a New Nation\" digital library.\n\nA legislature usually has neither the time nor the expertise to administer all of the details of a particular statute. It may, for example, pass a statute mandating clean water. However, it delegates the authority to actually implement the statute to a Government agency, such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Agencies issue administrative Regulations to implement the details of the \"enabling legislation\" that gave the agency authority to act.\n\nThe challenge with the executive branch is to track down the rules and regulations of federal and state administrative agencies. Luckily administrative regulations have a \"life cycle\" that is very similar to that of statutes. Regulations start out as an agency document, which many agencies now post on the web. Similar to statutes, regulations are often published in chronological order in \"registers\", and finally are published in subject order in \"codes\".\n\nFederal regulations, for example, are first printed in the Federal Register, before they are published in subject order in the Code of Federal Regulations.\n\nBecause of this \"publication pattern\" in order to find out if there has been a change with respect to a particular regulation a print CFR user has to go through a two step process of checking 1) the List of Sections Affected (LSA) and 2) the latest issue of the Federal Register for the current month. The United States Government Printing Office has an e-CFR pilot project is underway to provide a version of the CFR without having to refer to a separate publication for updates.\n\nThe foremost executive branch entity is, of course, the Office of President of the United States. The White House has its own website. Presidential documents are published in the Federal Register and in Title 3 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). Presidential documents can also be accessed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Public Papers of the Presidents available in print and at the United States Government Printing Office website.\n\nThe relationship between statutes and regulations means that one can usually never consider just a regulation alone. This intertwined grouping of regulations, statutes, and cases is often best deciphered using secondary sources such as books and journal articles.\n\nLegal reference books and journal articles are available at some public libraries and at law school libraries. In law libraries books known as \"legal treatises\" are available that summarize the law on specific subjects. Law school libraries also hold legal encyclopedias, such as Corpus Juris Secundum or American Jurisprudence and resources such as American Law Reports. Many major legal research materials may be found online, through both free and commercial services. Law dictionaries can be found in many libraries, online commercial services, and some are free on the Internet.\n\nMany law reviews, other legal journals and magazines, and legal newspapers place content on the web. Not all law journals provide their text on the web, and some content may be placed behind a paywall.\n\nLegal citations direct readers to the source of information cited within a legal document. When conducting legal research, part of the challenge is to figure out how to cite to items, or how to decipher a legal citation encountered in a primary or secondary source. The vendor neutral citation movement has developed to try to make citations more broadly understandable without specific reference to a particular guide to legal citation. However, it is important to use citations that will be understood by the audience for the legal research project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58002341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58002341", "title": "List of Mormon studies scholars", "text": "List of Mormon studies scholars\n\nIndividuals from a variety of cultural or philosophical standpoints produced prolific Mormon-themed research, scholarship, or their popularization, in an era now past. Then, beginning in the decade of the 2000s, Mormon studies finally came into its own as an independent field of study when the sub-discipline became featured by then at a few academic institutions in the Western United States.\n\nSome of the individuals with recognized expertise in the field are listed below. In consideration of space, members of Latter Day Saint movement denominations' overall leadership are not included (Dallin H. Oaks is listed for work he published prior his becoming a member of the LDS Church's Quorum of the Twelve).\n\n\n Prolific popularizer among LDS of its theology. (Also an influential, conservative American Constitutionalist and faith-based political theorist)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42504507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42504507", "title": "Metro Manila Film Festival Award for Most Gender-Sensitive Film", "text": "Metro Manila Film Festival Award for Most Gender-Sensitive Film\n\nThe Metro Manila Film Festival Award for Most Gender-Sensitive Film is an award presented annually by the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA). It was first awarded at the 29th Metro Manila Film Festival ceremony, held in 2003; the film \"Homecoming\" won the award and it is given to the best representation of gender-sensitivity or modification of behavior by raising awareness of gender equality concerns in a motion picture. Currently, nominees and winners are determined by Executive Committees, headed by the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority Chairman and key members of the film industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "26603063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26603063", "title": "Mormon Stories Podcast", "text": "Mormon Stories Podcast\n\nMormon Stories Podcast is a podcast principally hosted by John Dehlin featuring interviews with scholars and others especially on Mormon topics. The podcasts are noted for their often friendliness to Mormon skeptics and dissidents.\nIn September 2005, after finding reasons to stay a member of the LDS Church, John Dehlin created the \"Mormon Stories\" podcast as an open discussion of Mormon issues with the intention of giving listeners reasons to remain in the church. Through interviews, Mormon Stories focused on varying Mormon experiences and perspectives, including antagonistic, apologetic, intellectual, gay, black, fundamentalist, feminist, and dissenting. Several notable Mormon figures were guests on \"Mormon Stories\", including Gregory Prince, Todd Compton, Grant H. Palmer, Darius Gray, Margaret Blair Young, Richard Bushman, and Margaret and Paul Toscano. To date, listenership at times exceeds 25,000 downloads per episode. Mormon Stories has been featured in many venues, including being broadcast on KVNU in Logan, Utah. In June 2007 John Dehlin was quoted for stories by \"The New York Times\" and \"Good Morning America\", discussing Mitt Romney and Mormonism.\n\nAt times personally conflicted about continuing \"Mormon Stories\", Dehlin stopped and restarted the project a few times. In January 2010 Dehlin resumed the blog and podcast, focusing on faith crises, mental illnesses, and notable guests, beginning with interviews of Joanna Brooks and John C. Hamer. Among numerous other regular hosts who have joined Dehlin in conducting interviews for the podcast were Dan Wotherspoon, former editor of \"Sunstone\" magazine, and Natasha Helfer Parker, a licensed clinical marriage and family therapist.\n\n, Dehlin said Stories episodes had \"tens of thousands\" of listeners and that the webcast's \"goal has always been to alleviate suffering. It’s an act of love.\"\n\nIn 2013, a critical review of \"Mormon Stories\" by Gregory L. Smith was published in \"\". In the review, Smith alleges that \"Dehlin is frequently uninformed of the often controversial material he discusses with interviewees, and that he promotes views hostile to the foundational beliefs of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\". The pending publication of the piece catalyzed within the Mormon studies community a discussion (referred to by some as the \"Dehlin affair\") about the roles of apologetic and non-faith-based scholarship, respectively, within the academic study of Mormonism by Mormons.\n\nFeatured guests of the podcast include Latter-day Saints considered orthodox, \"curious,\" doubters and heretics. These have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "588708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588708", "title": "North Sea Germanic", "text": "North Sea Germanic\n\nNorth Sea Germanic, also known as Ingvaeonic , is a postulated grouping of the northern West Germanic languages, consisting of Old Frisian, Old English and Old Saxon and their descendants.\n\nIngvaeonic is named after the Ingaevones, a West Germanic cultural group or proto-tribe along the North Sea coast, mentioned by both Tacitus and Pliny the Elder (the latter mentioning that tribes in the group included the Cimbri, the Teutoni, and the Chauci). It is not thought of as a monolithic proto-language but rather as a group of closely related dialects that underwent several areal changes in relative unison.\n\nThe grouping was first proposed in \"Nordgermanen und Alemannen\" (1942) by German linguist and philologist Friedrich Maurer as an alternative to the strict tree diagrams that had become popular following the work of 19th-century linguist August Schleicher and assumed the existence of a special Anglo-Frisian group. The other groupings are Istvaeonic, from the Istvaeones, including Dutch, Afrikaans and related languages; and Irminonic, from the Irminones, including the High German languages.\n\nLinguistic evidence for Ingvaeonic are common innovations observed in Old Frisian, Old English and Old Saxon such as the following:\n\n\nSeveral, but not all, of the characteristics are also found in Dutch. It did not generally undergo the nasal spirant law (except for a few words), it kept the three plural endings distinct and it did not have the \"-s\" plural. However, it underwent near-full monophthongisation (some instances of \"-ei-\" persisted), lost the reflexive pronoun (even if it later regained it by borrowing) and had the same four relic verbs in weak class 3.\n\n"}
{"id": "1684257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1684257", "title": "Organic law", "text": "Organic law\n\nAn organic law is a law, or system of laws, that form the foundation of a government, corporation or any other organization's body of rules. A constitution is a particular form of organic law for a sovereign state.\nUnder the current Constitution of France, organic laws are a short, fixed list of statutes (in 2005, there were about 30 of them), whose existence is provisioned by the text of the Constitution itself. According to the framing of the French Constitution (especially its preambles), they are of constitutional scope and have constitutional force and so overrule ordinary statutes. They are enacted by the Parliament of France in the same way except that the Constitutional Council of France must be consulted before any organic law is enacted.\n\nOrganic laws allow flexibility if needed. An important category is the legislative process for enacting the budgets of the French state and French social security. Other organic laws give the practical procedures for various elections. They reduce the need for amendments to the constitution.\n\nUnder the current Spanish Constitution of 1978, an Organic Law has an intermediate status between that of an ordinary law and of the constitution itself. It must be passed by an absolute majority of the Congress of Deputies. The Spanish Constitution specifies that some areas of law must be regulated by this procedure, such as the laws developing fundamental rights and freedoms recognized in the first section of Chapter Two of Title I of the Constitution, as well as the laws that approve the Statutes of Autonomy of the autonomous communities of Spain, among others. Prior to the 1978 constitution, the concept did not exist in Spain, but it is inspired by the similar concept in the 1958 French Constitution.\n\nThe organic laws of the United States of America can be found in Volume One of the United States Code which contains the general and permanent laws of the United States. U.S. Code (2007) defines the organic laws of the United States of America to include the Declaration of Independence of July 4, 1776, the Articles of Confederation of November 15, 1777, the Northwest Ordinance of July 13, 1787, and the Constitution of September 17, 1787.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3923539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3923539", "title": "Parliamentary leader", "text": "Parliamentary leader\n\nA parliamentary leader is a political title or a descriptive term used in various countries to the person leading a caucus (or parliamentary group) in a legislative body, whether it be a national or sub-national legislature. A party leader may be the same person as the parliamentary leader, or the roles may be separated.\n\nIn many countries, the position of leader of a political party (that is, the organisational leader) and leader of a parliamentary group are separate positions, and while they are often held by the same person, this is not always or automatically the case. If the party leader is a member of the government, holds a different political office outside the parliamentary body in question, or no political office at all, the position of parliamentary leader is frequently held by a different person.\n\nIn English, the leader may be referred to as a \"parliamentary chairman\", \"group leader\" or simply \"parliamentary leader\", among other names.\n\nA parliamentary leader is chosen in Canadian politics to lead their caucus in a legislative body, whether it be the House of Commons or a provincial legislature. They serve as interim legislative leaders, when a party leader either has no seat in the legislative body, during a transition period preceding, or following a leadership contest.\n\nEach of the seven political groups of the European Parliament has its own group leader. The groups within the European Parliament are often very broad, so the position of the group leader is a unifying one—they may help to consolidate MEPs with similar outlooks ahead of important votes. The groups are organisationally separate from a European political party, and multiple parties often ally as a single group, thus the distinction between a party and a parliamentary leader is usually strict.\n\nIn German politics, leaders of the major parties have often been heads of government of the various states rather than members of the national parliament. Hence, the position of parliamentary leader in the federal parliament (Germany also has 16 state parliaments) is often occupied by a different person. The parliamentary leader has the supreme responsibility for coordinating the work of the MPs representing his or her party. Even when the party leader is a member of the national parliament, the parliamentary leader can be a different person. For instance,\nFriedrich Merz was parliamentary leader while Angela Merkel was party leader for some years while the CDU was in opposition. If the party leader is the Chancellor or a member of the government, another person always is the parliamentary leader.\n\nIn British politics, the leader of a party is typically the same person as the parliamentary leader. The leader may not fully control the party bureaucracy. The leader may be chosen by MPs from among their number, or elected by the wider party membership at a party conference, but once elected must retain the support of the parliamentary party. Similarly, the position of prime minister may be given to the parliamentary leader (viz. party leader) of the largest political party in parliament, with the expectation they will be able secure and retain the confidence of a majority of MPs. \n\nSome smaller parties have parliamentary leaders in the national parliament (in Westminster) who are separate from the party leaders—the party leader may hold office in a devolved (sub-national) parliament or assembly.\n\nIn Australian and New Zealand politics, the party figure commonly described as \"leader\" is usually an MP responsible for managing the party's business within parliament. Party constitutions will typically distinguish between the parliamentary leader and the organisational leader (who typically is outside of parliament), with the latter often termed a \"federal president\" or \"party president\". The two roles are organisationally distinct even if close cooperation is expected.\n\n"}
{"id": "56522570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56522570", "title": "Paul Ortiz (historian)", "text": "Paul Ortiz (historian)\n\nPaul Ortiz (born 1964) is an American historian. His book \"Emancipation Betrayed: The Hidden History of Black Organizing and White Violence in Florida from Reconstruction to the Bloody Election of 1920\" received the 1990 Harry T. and Harriette V. Moore Book Prize. Dr. Ortiz is Associate Professor of History at the University of Florida and is Director of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.\n\nOrtiz served as a paratrooper and radio operator, attaining the rank of sergeant, in the United States Army from 1982 to 1986 with the 82nd Airborne Division and the 7th Special Forces Group in Central America. He received the US Armed Forces' Humanitarian Service Medal for meritorious action in the wake of the eruption of the Nevado del Ruiz stratovolcano in Tolima, Colombia, in November, 1985.\n\nPaul Ortiz received his Ph.D. in 2000 from Duke University, where he studied History. He earned his Bachelor's degree from the Evergreen State College in 1990 in history and political economy after transferring from Olympic Community College. As a graduate student at Duke University, Ortiz served as the research coordinator for \"Behind The Veil,\" an African American oral history project. He was part of the research team that received the Oral History Association's Outstanding Oral History Project Award in 1996. Ortiz worked as a volunteer labor organizer with the United Farm Workers of Washington State and the Farm Labor Organizing Committee in North Carolina.\n\nOrtiz's publications include \"Emancipation Betrayed\" (University of California Press) a history of the Black Freedom struggle in Florida, and \"Remembering Jim Crow: African Americans Tell About Life in the Jim Crow South\" (New Press). His book awards include the Lillian Smith Book Prize and the Harry T. and Harriett V. Moore Book Prize. His published essays appear in a wide array of publication venues and types, including \"Latino Studies\", \"The Oral History Review\", \"Radical History Review\", \"Truthout\", \"Against the Current\", \"Southern Exposure\", and popular press in writings about African American and Latino histories and politics. His most recent publication is \"An African American and Latinx History of the United States\" (2018).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1666883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666883", "title": "Phenomenology of religion", "text": "Phenomenology of religion\n\nThe phenomenology of religion concerns the experiential aspect of religion, describing religious phenomena in terms consistent with the orientation of worshippers. It views religion as made up of different components, and studies these components across religious traditions in order to gain some understanding of them.\n\nThe first explicit use of the phrase \"phenomenology of religion\" occurs in the \"Lehrbuch der Religionsgeschichte\" (Handbook of the History of Religions), written by Pierre Daniël Chantepie de la Saussaye in 1887, wherein he articulates the task of the science of religion and gives an \"Outline of the phenomenology of religion\". Employing the terminology of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Chantepie divides his science of religion into two areas of investigation, essence and manifestations, which are approached through investigations in philosophy and history, respectively. However, Chantepie’s phenomenology \"belongs neither to the history nor the philosophy of religion as Hegel envisioned them\". For Chantepie, it is the task of phenomenology to prepare historical data for philosophical analysis through \"a collection, a grouping, an arrangement, and a classifying of the principal groups of religious conceptions\". This sense of phenomenology as a grouping of manifestations is similar to the conception of phenomenology articulated by Robison and the British; however, insofar as Chantepie conceives of phenomenology as a preparation for the philosophical elucidation of essences, his phenomenology is not completely opposed to that of Hegel.\n\nChantepie’s \"Lehrbuch\" was highly influential, and many researchers began similar efforts after its publication and its subsequent translation into English and French. One such researcher was William Brede Kristensen. In 1901, Kristensen was appointed the first professorship relating to the phenomenology of religion at the University of Leiden. Some of the material from Kristensen’s lectures on the phenomenology of religion was edited posthumously, and the English translation was published in 1960 as \"The Meaning of Religion\". James notes that Kristensen’s phenomenology \"adopts many of the features of Chantepie’s grouping of religious phenomena,\" and penetrates further into the intricacies of Chantepie’s phenomenological approach.\nFor Chantepie, phenomenology is affected by the philosophy and history of religion, but for Kristensen, it is also the medium whereby the philosophy and history of religion interact with and affect one another. In this sense, Kristensen’s account of the relationship between historical manifestations and philosophy is more similar to that of Hegel than it is to Chantepie. In defining the religious essence of which he explores historical manifestations, Kristensen appropriates Rudolf Otto’s conception of \"das Heilige\" (\"the holy\" or \"the sacred\"). Otto describes \"das Heilige\" with the expression \"mysterium tremendum et fascinans\"—a numinous power revealed in a moment of \"awe\" that admits of both the horrible shuddering of \"religious dread\" (\"tremendum\") and fascinating wonder (\"fascinans\") with the overpowering majesty (\"majestas\") of the ineffable, \"wholly other\" mystery (\"mysterium\").\n\nLike Chantepie, Kristensen argues that phenomenology seeks the “meaning” of religious phenomena. Kristensen clarifies this supposition by defining the meaning that his phenomenology is seeking as “the meaning that the religious phenomena have for the believers themselves”. Furthermore, Kristensen argues that phenomenology is not complete in grouping or classifying the phenomena according to their meaning, but in the act of understanding. “Phenomenology has as its objects to come as far as possible into contact with and to understand the extremely varied and divergent religious data”.\n\nBeing a phenomenologist, Kristensen was less interested in philosophical presuppositions than in his concrete depth-research in the incidental religious phenomena. These subjects concerned mythological material (such as Creation, the Flood etc.) as well as human action (such as baptism, Olympic Games etc.), and objects of nature and handicrafts.\nIn all of this he only made use of the authentic sources: writings and images by the believers themselves. This procedure compelled him to reduce the field of his research - he had to profoundly master all relating languages and writings in order to be able to understand his sources in a way as they would have wanted to be understood themselves.\nConsequently, he reduced his field of research to the phenomena in religions living around the origin of Christianity: during the millennia before and the centuries after Christ, in Iran (Avesta), Babylonia and Assyria, Israel, Egypt, Greece and Rome.\nThe required knowledge of speeches, also, is one of the causes that only few (Van der Leeuw, Bleeker) of his pupils did carry on in his line, although many scholars showed interests in the results of his research.\nApart from his synopsis \"The Meaning of Religion\", and a just simple \"Introduction in History of Religion\", his publications are mostly restricted to the results of his incidental partial researches, published in the shape of a Communication of the Royal Academy of the Netherlands.\n\nThe phenomenological approach to religion developed in Gerardus van der Leeuw’s \"Phänomenologie der Religion\" (1933) follows Kristensen in many respects, while also appropriating the phenomenology of Martin Heidegger and the hermeneutics of Wilhelm Dilthey.\n\nFor van der Leeuw, understanding is the subjective aspect of phenomena, which is inherently intertwined with the objectivity of that which is manifest. Van der Leeuw articulates the relation of understanding to understood phenomena according to the schema outlined in Dilthey’s definition of the human sciences (\"Geisteswissenschaften\") as sciences that are “based on the relations between experience, expression and understanding” (“\"Verhältnis von Erlebnis, Ausdruck, und Verstehen\"”). Van der Leeuw correlates subjective experience, expression, and understanding with three objective levels of appearing—relative concealment (\"Verborgenheit\"), relative transparency (\"Durchsichtigkeit\"), and gradually becoming manifest or revealed (\"Offenbarwerden\"), wherein the understanding of what is becoming revealed is the primordial level of appearing from which the experienced concealment and expressed transparency of appearing are derived.\n\nBecause van der Leeuw, like Kristensen, appropriates Otto’s concept of \"das Heilige\" in defining the essential category of religion, the transcendence becoming revealed in all human understanding can be further described as sacred — an overpowering “wholly other,” which becomes revealed in astonishing moments of dreadful awe (\"Scheu\") and wonderful fascination. Van der Leeuw argues that this concept of religious dread is also present in Kierkegaard’s work on \"Angst\" and in Heidegger’s statement that “what arouses dread is ‘being in the world’ itself”. Moreover, van der Leeuw recognizes that, although dreadful, Being-in-the-world is fundamentally characterized as care (\"Sorge\"), the existential structure whereby \"Dasein\" is concerned with meaningful relationships in the world alongside other beings.\n\nBecause all experiences disclose concealed (wholly other) transcendence to the understanding, all experiences of Being-in-the-world are ultimately religious experiences of the sacred, whether explicitly recognized as such or not. Human being as such is \"homo religiosus\", the opposite of \"homo negligens\".\n\nIt is the task of the phenomenology of religion to interpret the various ways in which the sacred appears to human beings in the world, the ways in which humans understand and care for that which is revealed to them, for that which is ultimately wholly other mystery.\nAmong other great phenomenologists who worked and influenced phenomenology of religion are Henry Corbin, Ninian Smart, Mircea Eliade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2935974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2935974", "title": "Qashani", "text": "Qashani\n\nQashani or Kashani is a Persian decorative arts which had been popular in Iran in the 16th to 18th century, and then moved to Turkey in the time of the Ottomans with the transfer of many Persians artists to Turkey, becoming the basis for decorating the walls of mosques, palaces, shrines and tombs. It is a square-shaped ceramic tile which uses Persian-like floral-depicting 4- or 6-sided glazed tiles, decorated with blue, cyan, green and sometimes red colors. The decoration is surrounded by fine black lines that make it stand out on its white floor. The tile work had often been decorated by the inscription, floral and geometrical patterns. The inscription often provides Qur'anic verses or sentences related to historical events written in Persian script. The plant often consists of natural flowers such as lily, cloves, roses and cypress trees. Geometrical patterns consists of different geometrical shapes and polygons. In Morocco, similar artistic technique is known as \"zillij\". Its use has been widespread in the decoration of the walls of the buildings in the Ottoman era, and this mosaical feature can also be seen in the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem. Kashi, the abbreviated form of Qashani, was also introduced to Sindh, Kutch, and Multan where numerous examples of shrines and mosques embellished with blue, white and green tile work exist. \n"}
{"id": "8818046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8818046", "title": "Rachel Bromwich", "text": "Rachel Bromwich\n\nRachel Bromwich (30 July 1915 – 15 December 2010) was a British scholar. Her focus was on medieval Welsh literature, and she was Emeritus Reader in Celtic Languages and Literature at the Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic at Cambridge until her death. Among her most important contributions to the study of Welsh literature is \"Trioedd Ynys Prydein\", her edition of the Welsh Triads.\n\nBromwich was born Rachel Amos in Hove, England, in 1915. Her father, Maurice Amos, was an English legal expert who served as international law adviser to the Egyptian government; her mother was Scottish and strongly associated with the Quakers. The family moved frequently before settling in Cumbria in 1925. In 1934 Rachel Amos attended Newnham College, Cambridge, where she studied the Anglo-Saxon language before shifting departments to focus on Middle Welsh. In 1938 she moved to the University College of Wales, Bangor and studied under Ifor Williams. Amos took a great interest in Medieval Welsh literature, and particularly the Arthurian legend; it was Williams' suggestion that she edit the Welsh Triads. As a university teacher, she combined rigorous scholarship with great personal kindness, always ready to help and share knowledge with her students, taking a close interest in their careers. She was awarded the degree of D.Litt. by the University of Wales for her services to Welsh scholarship. In 1939 she married John Bromwich; they had one son, Brian.\n\nShe became interested in medieval literature and the Welsh language in college. In 1961 she published \"Trioedd Ynys Prydein\", her influential edition of the Welsh Triads. A third, thoroughly revised edition was published in 2006. \nIt is much more widely consulted by scholars than might be supposed from the specialised nature of the text, thanks to her extensive notes on the names of a wide range of characters in Welsh myth and legend. Her other major contribution to Welsh scholarship was her series of books and articles on Dafydd ap Gwilym, the outstanding Welsh poet of the period, mostly summarised in \"Aspects of the Poetry of Dafydd ap Gwilym\" (Cardiff, 1985). With D. Simon Evans she produced editions of the major medieval Welsh tale \"Culhwch and Olwen\" in both Welsh (1988) and English (1992).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25811557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25811557", "title": "Religion and ritual of the Cucuteni–Trypillia culture", "text": "Religion and ritual of the Cucuteni–Trypillia culture\n\nThe study of religion and ritual of the Cucuteni-Trypillia culture has provided important insights into the early history of Europe. The Cucuteni-Trypillia culture, which existed in the present-day southeastern European nations of Moldova, Romania, and Ukraine during the Neolithic Age and Copper Age, from approximately 5500 BC to 2750 BC, left behind thousands of settlement ruins containing a wealth of archaeological artifacts attesting to their cultural and technological characteristics. Refer to the main article for a general description of this culture; this article deals with its religious and ritualistic aspects.\n\nSome Cucuteni-Trypillia communities have been found that contain a special building located in the center of the settlement, which archaeologists have identified as sacred sanctuaries. Artifacts have been found inside these sanctuaries, some of them having been intentionally buried in the ground within the structure, that are clearly of a religious nature, and have provided insights into some of the beliefs, and perhaps some of the rituals and structure, of the members of this society. Additionally, artifacts of an apparent religious nature have also been found within many domestic Cucuteni-Trypillia homes.\n\nMany of these artifacts are clay figurines or statues. Archaeologists have identified many of these as fetishes or totems, which are believed to be imbued with powers that can help and protect the people who look after them. These Cucuteni-Trypillia figurines have become known popularly as Goddesses, however, this is actually a misnomer from a scientific point of view. There have been so many of these so-called clay Goddesses discovered in Cucuteni-Trypillia sites that many museums in eastern Europe have a sizeable collection of them, and as a result, they have come to represent one of the more readily-identifiable visual markers of this culture to many people.\n\nAs mentioned above, beginning in the Precucuteni III period (circa 4800-4600 BC), special communal sanctuary buildings began to appear in Cucuteni-Trypillia settlements. They continued to exist during the Cucuteni A and Cucuteni A/B (corresponding to Trypillia B) periods (circa 4600-3800 BC), but then for some reason these sanctuaries began to disappear, until in the Cucuteni B (Trypillia C) period (circa 3800-3500 BC) only a few examples have been discovered from archaeological exploration. These sanctuaries were constructed in a monumental style architecture, and included stelae, statues, shrines, and numerous other ceremonial and religious artifacts, sometimes packed in straw inside pottery.\n\nSome of these artifacts originally seemed to represent themes that are Chthonic (of the Underworld), and Celestial/Heavenly, or of the sky. During an excavation in 1973 at the Cucuteni-Trypillia site at Ghelăiești, near the city of Neamț, Romania, archaeologist Ștefan Cucoș discovered a house in the center of the settlement that was the community sanctuary. The following account written by Croatian archeologist Marina Hoti describes the findings within this sanctuary:\nIn the southeast corner of the house a vase surrounded by six vases was found under the floor. The central vase was turned upside down, covering another vessel with a lid, in which four anthropomorphic figurines were found, arranged in a cross and looking to the four sides of the world. Two figurines were decorated with lines and had completely black heads and legs; the other two were not coloured, but they had traces of ocher red.\nRefer to the two accompanying images for a visual depiction of the four figurines within the upturned pot buried in the sanctuary at the Ghelăiești site. Subsequent analysis of this discovery has led to a number of interpretations by various scholars over the years. Ștefan Cucoș, who discovered the artifact, included other symbols discovered at Ghelăiești, including snake-like depictions, the cross-shape of altars, and swastika designs, concluded that it was associated with a ritual of fertility dedicated to the Goddess, associating the black-painted figurines with chthonic themes, and the red ocher-painted figurines with celestial or heavenly themes. Hungarian archaeologist János Makkay also supported a fertility ritual interpretation. Marija Gimbutas, Lithuanian archaeologist and author of \"The Civilization of the Goddess\", interpreted this discovery as a dualistic interpretation of summer and winter, representing the cycle of life and death in nature.\n\nHowever, later analysis of this discovery incorporated the entire setting in which these painted figurines were found: specifically, that they were buried under an upturned ceramic vessel. Comparing this find with other similar discoveries from contemporary cultures in Isaiia and Poduri, scholars developed a theory that the tableau taken in its setting, being buried beneath the floor of the sanctuary, and with the four figurines facing outward to the four cardinal directions, represented a means to protect the sanctuary and settlement from evil. The black heads of the figurines were associated with death, and the red ocher was painted on the figurines on the precise body parts that the Cucuteni-Trypillia culture painted on the body parts of their dead before burial. These figurines, therefore, most likely represented departed souls, or beings from the underworld (land of the dead). By enclosing them in an overturned vessel, and burying this entire arrangement under the floor of the sanctuary, they were protecting the settlement from the evil influences these figurines represented by creating a magical sigil of protection.\n\nAs evidence from archaeology, thousands of artifacts from Neolithic Europe have been discovered, mostly in the form of female figurines. As a result a goddess theory has occurred. The leading historian was Marija Gimbutas, still this interpretation is a subject of great controversy in archaeology due to her many inferences about the symbols on artifacts.\nSome researchers consider that the symbols used for representing the feminity are the rhombus for fertility and the triangle as a symbol for fecundity. The cross, symbolizing nature's power of fertility and renewal, was sometimes used to represent masculinity, as well as the phases of the moon.\n\nThis ritual assemblies lay in a vase that had a very anomalous shape to the Precucuteni style and were full of soil and straw. The cultic objects were put on display and worshiped during magic-religious ceremonies. The repeated use of them is proven by the presence of some chipping from wear. When not in motion, they were probably stored in this special container. The presence of soil under some statuettes kept in the vase, and the evidence of cariossids on the surface of two figurines and four stools, led some researchers to hypothesize that the pieces had been deposited in soil and straw for magical purposes: they had been left to bud.\nall the statues were distinct. Some of them bear geometrical decorations. There were observed mature statuettes (that have already given birth), young statuettes (that have not yet given birth), and a babies . Only the mature figurines may sit by right on clay stools.\n\nAccording to some researchers as Gimbutas, Lazarocici, for the Precucuteni communities, mythic birds possibly embodied a solar principle and the revival of the life, serving as a symbol of prosperity and protection.\n\nOne of the unanswered questions regarding the Cucuteni-Trypillia culture is the small number of artifacts associated with funerary rites. Although very large settlements have been explored by archaeologists, the evidence for mortuary activity is almost invisible. Making a distinction between the eastern Tripolye and the western Cucuteni regions of the Cucuteni-Trypillia geographical area, American archaeologist Douglass W. Bailey writes: There are no Cucuteni cemeteries and the Tripolye ones that have been discovered are very late. The discovery of skulls is more frequent than other parts of the body, however because there has not yet been a comprehensive statistical survey done of all of the skeletal remains discovered at Cucuteni-Trypillia sites, precise post excavation analysis of these discoveries cannot be accurately determined at this time.\n\nSome historians have contrasted the funerary practices of the Cucuteni-Trypillia culture with the neighboring Linear Pottery culture, which existed from 5500-4500 BC in the region of present-day Hungary and extending westward into central Europe, making it coincide with the Precucuteni to Cucuteni A Phases. Archaeological evidence from the Linear Pottery sites have shown that they practiced cremation, as well as inhumation (or burial). However, there appears to have been a distinction made in the Linear-Pottery culture on where the bodies were interred, based on gender and social dominance. Women and children were found to be buried beneath the floor of the house, while men were missing, indicating some other practice was associated with how they dealt with the dead bodies of males. One of the conclusions drawn from this evidence was espoused by Marija Gimbutas, author of \"The Civilization of the Goddess: The world of Old Europe\", in which she theorizes that women and children were associated with hearth and home, and so they would be buried beneath it as an act of connecting their bodies to the home.\n\nCollectively taking these characteristics of the neighboring Linear Pottery culture into consideration, scholars have theorized that additional Cucuteni-Tryilian sites may be found, including locations that may be detached from the main settlements, where there may be evidence of the practice of cremation. Archaeologists have discussed broadening the search areas around known Cucuteni-Trypillia settlements to cover a much wider area, and to employ modern techniques to help try to find evidence of outlying sites where evidence of funerary activities could be found.\n\nIn addition to cremation and burial, other possible methods of disposing of the bodies of the dead have been suggested. Romanian archaeologists Silvia Marinescu-Bîlcu and Alexandra Bolomey suggest a common practice of abandoning the body to the mercy of Mother Nature, a practice that may be somewhat similar to the Zoroastrian tradition of placing the bodies of the dead on top of a Tower of Silence (or Dakhma), which are then fed upon by carrion birds.\n\nRussian archaeologist Tamara Grigorevna Movsha proposed a theory, in 1960, to explain the absence of some bones, as considered to have magical powers and were scattered on purpose across the settlement.\n\nOthers have suggested the practices of cannibalism (known also as anthrophagy), or excarnation, which is the practice of removing the flesh and organs of the dead, leaving only the bones. Romanian archaeologist Sergiu Haimovici writes about such a discovery:\n\"...Alexandra Bolomey...made a review of a series of...human remains, (and) found...at least partly, (that) they have a cultic character and maybe even...an antropophagy of (a) cultic type.\" This would indicate that perhaps some ritualistic cannibalism was practiced among the Cucuteni-Trypillia tribes.\n\nThe only conclusion which can be drawn from archeological evidence is that in the Cucuteni-Trypillia culture, in the vast majority of cases, the bodies were not formally deposited within the settlement area.\n\nStill in one of few sites, where researchers have found a significant number of human remains (Poduri Dealul Ghindaru in Romania), it seems possible in analyzing the findings, that in the early Cucuteni Culture, the children and infants were inhumed near the houses or even under the house floor.\n\nVarious researchers have some hypotheses about Cucuteni rituals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31353545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31353545", "title": "Ringbang", "text": "Ringbang\n\nRingbang is variously a Caribbean fusion of music genres, a philosophy, and an aesthetic propounded by Eddy Grant in 1994.\n\nIn an interview circa 2000, Grant defined ringbang like this:\nIn applying ringbang to music, Grant attempted to define a meta-style to encompass all Caribbean rhythms; it was to be a musical lingua franca. He wished this multicultural style to place no restrictions on instrumentation, and he said that he wanted no single country or culture to lay claim to it. Among ringbang's stylistic influences are calypso, reggae, soca, tuk, and zouk.\n\nGrant says that the word \"ringbang\" comes from vocalists scat singing \"Ringa-ringa-ringbang!\". He chose the word one day in 1993, while standing in recording engineer Frank Agarrat's backyard in Trinidad.\n\nIn an attempt to popularize ringbang music and its underlying philosophy, Grant asked various recording artists to apply the word (which he trademarked) to some of their songs. Barbadian recording artists Grynner, Square One, Viking Tundah, and others recorded ringbang tracks for Grant's record labels, Ice Records and Blue Wave Records. Among the ringbang albums on these labels were \"Fire in de Wave\" (1994), \"Ringbang Rebel Dance\" (1995), \"Ringbang Souljah\" (1996), and \"Ringbang Revolution\" (1997).\n\nOn New Year's Eve 1999, Grant hosted a concert on Tobago called Ringbang Celebration 2000, at which he performed with the Frontline Orchestra. The event drew approximately 11,000 people, and featured performances from artists from Antigua, Barbados, and Trinidad and Tobago. Calypso legend Lord Kitchener's brief appearance at the event was his final time onstage, as he died the following February.\n\nIn March 2003, Ice Records published \"Ringbang 4 Kids\", a selection of songs intended for children of primary school age. The songs were performed by Barbadian singer Indra Rudder, who had previously sung backing vocals for several Ice Records tracks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35802498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35802498", "title": "Robert Bone", "text": "Robert Bone\n\nRobert Adamson Bone (1924 – November 25, 2007) was a scholar of African-American literature and a professor of English at Columbia University.\n\nBone was a conscientious objector during World War II, and earned his B.A. in English from Yale University in 1945. He was National Secretary of the Young People’s Socialist League from 1946 to 1947, and then from 1947 to 1948 he worked in the automotive industry in Flint, Michigan. Returning to Yale, he earned a master's degree in American studies in 1949 and a doctorate in 1955. Bone taught at Yale and at the University of California, Los Angeles, before joining the faculty at Teachers College, Columbia, where he taught from 1965 to 1990.\n\nBone's book \"The Negro Novel in America\", his Yale dissertation, was published in two editions in 1958 and 1965, and translated into Japanese. Reviewer August Meier places it within the New Criticism movement, and calls it a \"brilliant and provocative study\". In it, Bone identifies four periods of African-American literature: a period of assimilation into the white middle class from 1890 to 1920, the pluralism of the Harlem Renaissance in the 1920s, a period of naturalism and protest during the Great Depression of the 1930s, and a \"revolt against protest\" in the 1940s. He discusses in detail many novels from each period, reserving particular praise for Richard Wright's \"Native Son\" (1940) and Ralph Ellison's \"Invisible Man\" (1952).\n\nBone also wrote \"Down Home: A History of Afro-American Short Fiction from its Beginnings to the End of the Harlem Renaissance\" (Putnam, 1975) and a short book on \"Native Son\" author Richard Wright. A manuscript left unfinished at Bone's death was completed by Richard A. Courage and published as \"The Muse in Bronzeville: African American Creative Expression in Chicago, 1932-1950\" (Rutgers University Press, 2011).\n\nAnother of Bone's contributions is the name of the \"Black Chicago Renaissance\", a period of expansion for African-American culture in Chicago prior to World War II.\n"}
{"id": "4972564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4972564", "title": "Short-title catalogue", "text": "Short-title catalogue\n\nA short-title catalogue (or catalog) is a bibliographical resource that lists printed items in an abbreviated fashion, recording the most important words of their titles. The term is commonly encountered in the context of early modern books, which frequently have lengthy, descriptive titles on their title pages. Many short-title catalogues are union catalogues, listing items in the custody of multiple libraries.\n\nOnline short-title catalogues in fact tend to record complete (and therefore longer) title transcriptions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46410221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46410221", "title": "The Best American Short Stories 2013", "text": "The Best American Short Stories 2013\n\nThe Best American Short Stories 2013, a volume in the Best American Short Stories series, was edited by Heidi Pitlor and by guest editor Elizabeth Strout.\n"}
{"id": "36064762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36064762", "title": "The Bronze Screen: 100 Years of the Latino Image in Hollywood (film)", "text": "The Bronze Screen: 100 Years of the Latino Image in Hollywood (film)\n\nThe Bronze Screen directed and produced by Nancy De Los Santos, Susan Racho, and Alberto Dominguez, examines, analyzes, and critiques the portrayal of Latinos in Hollywood over the course of a century. Released in 2002, the documentary traces the different stereotypes evoked by Hollywood throughout the mid 19th and 20th century. This is done through the use of silent films and small excerpts from a variety of movie genres that feature Latinos. Carmen Miranda and Margarita Cansino (popularly known as Rita Hayworth) are a few of the many Latin actors and actresses whose careers, according to film historians, directors, and fellow actors featured in the documentary, were fabricated and highly manipulated by Hollywood. Furthermore, these actresses are used to illustrate the politics behind American Cinema and Latino/a negative representations in Hollywood. In addition to exploring stereotypes and negative representations of Latinos, \"The Bronze Screen\" also acknowledges the contribution and emergence of Latino writers, directors, cinematographers, composers, and graphic designers. Luis Valdez, Pablo Ferro, Montezuma Esparza, and John Alfonzo are a few, among the many featured in the documentary, that have paved the way for other Latinos who want to work in the industry, as well as, portrayed Latinos in a more positive manner through their films.\n\nThe documentary is divided into twenty-one sections that consist of Hollywood's first bad guy, enter the Latin lover, if you talk like deez, the grave yard shift, escaping the depression, no seas tonto (don’t be stupid), some kind of hero, good neighbor policy, the name game, cow boys and Mexicans, the Latin lover return, the blacklist, border clashes, the Cesar returned, something's coming the sixties, meanwhile behind the camera, the \"s\" word, the urban greaser, from silver to bronze, and el futuro. A stereotype, actor or actress is examined in each section. The first section begins by looking at silent films and their use of Mexican men as the bad guys and Mexican women as bad girls with loose morals.\n\nIn the sections that follow stereotypes such as the greaser, the Latin lover, the tonto (dumb), the bandido (bandit), the lazy Mexican, and the gangster are identified in various Hollywood films. The \"if you talk like deez\" section focuses on the Latino accent. According to the documentary the introduction of talkies ended the careers of many Latino actors. Latino males went from playing lead roles in silent films to playing supporting roles because of their accent. In \"the grave yard shift\" Lupe Vélez recalls her experience as an actress working the night shift. She goes on to explain that the Spanish versions of films were shot at night while the English version was shot during the day. Yet another obstacles Latinos have faced in Hollywood. Instead of focusing on stereotypes \"the name game\" section consist of the obstacles Latino actors and Latina actresses have had to face in regards to their names. The actors and actresses interviewed in this section all said to have experienced a moment in their careers in which their managers or someone in the industry suggested that they changed their name to something more American. They, however, refused to change their names because to them their names form part of their identities as actors and actresses. The last four sections of the documentary which include \"something's coming the sixties\", \"meanwhile behind the camera\", \"from silver to bronze\", and \"el futuro\" (the future) all examine the positive changes Latinos have made in Hollywood and the changes they continue to push for. Moreover, these last four sections show that Latinos in the film industry have redefined their role in Hollywood by producing, writing, and directing their own films.\n\nThe \"Library Journal\" wrote that \"The Bronze Screen\" is a fascinating documentary about the Latino in Hollywood from the first roles in the early 1900s to the present; the film could be used as a collection development tool for building a Latino film collection. The reviewer recommends the documentary for all academic and public libraries with Latin American studies and film studies collections. They noted that some of the comprehensive methods used include the filmmakers interviewing 15 actors, including Edward James Olmos and Rita Moreno. The review further explains, ten people that work in production positions behind the scenes are interviewed, including Gregory Nava, director of \"Selena\". The writer goes on to say that the four film scholars interviewed offered insights into the stereotypes and the past and future of Latinos in the American cinema industry.\n\nThey wrote that the ethnic stereotypes portrayed in the documentary include the greaser, the lazy Mexican, the dark mysterious lady, the Latin lover, the spitfire, the violent gang leader, and the non-English-speaking cleaning woman. They also write that the film's structure in chapters give the film continuity, featuring a myriad of clips and stills, both familiar and rare, along with exceptional sound and film quality.\n\nThe \"School Library Journal\" described the film as, \"compelling, enlightening, and entertaining.\" \"The Bronze Screen\" relates the contributions made by Latinos to movies, from silent to contemporary films, with examples of the many ways Latinos have been portrayed. They elaborated on the film's format: \"The loosely chronological structure allows viewers to compare and contrast the films and those who inhabit and create them\". The reviewer emphasizes part of the significance of this film: \"No look at the history of Hollywood would be complete without this documentary, which should be widely viewed by anyone interested in the history of movies\".\n\nThe writer explains that the documentary gives their view of the past and how the images of Latinos in Hollywood have shifted over time. The reviewer further describes the way in which the various stereotypes that have developed and evolved (such as the Latin Lover and the greaser) in American cinema are explored and enhanced with examples throughout the documentary. The reviewer also underlines that other film historians provide cogent commentary throughout.\n\nJournalist Robert Dominguez gives his review of the film in the \"Que Pasa\" (what's happening) section of the newspaper, the \"New York Daily News\": \"As a documentary chronicling a little-known and underappreciated aspect of film history, \"The Bronze Screen: 100 Years of the Latino Image in Hollywood Cinema\" is as comprehensive as its title suggests\". Occupying the seat as the main highlight of Harlem's 2003 Film Festival, the writer says, \"Yet the main appeal of \"The Bronze Screen\" is what co-producer Nancy De Los Santos jokingly calls its \"No s--!\" factor—fascinating tidbits of information \"that make people go, ‘No s--! I didn’t know that’\". The review highlights the scholarship that was done by the film's creators De Los Santos, along with co-producers Alberto Dominguez and Susan Racho, who spent more than 10 years researching and making The Bronze Screen. The writer quotes De Los Santos saying, \"The three of us have worked in Hollywood for 25 years, yet we didn’t even know the history of all the wonderful contributions Latinos have made\". The review further quotes De Los Santos: \"There are a lot of surprises for everybody in this film\". These include the fact that it was two Mexican brothers that designed the movable King Kong model in the 1931 film. The writer describes other examples like these from the film, like some of the classic horror films, such as \"Dracula\" were filmed in Spanish-language versions on the same set in the middle of the night after the American cast and crew went home. Another example includes the political economics of the early 20th century: \"a fed-up Mexican government that boycotted Hollywood films in the 1920s because Mexicans were constantly being portrayed as rapists, killers and outlaws\". The review quotes De Los Santos saying, \"People think of us as playing maids and gang members and all the other negative images. We wanted to reveal all the positive things we’ve done as a community\". De Los Santos further reveals, \"What I loved most about doing this is that it's Latinos documenting Latino history\".\n\nJournalist Michael Speier reviews the documentary for the newspaper, \"Variety\": \"The documentary covers the politics behind early distribution patterns, and the manipulation of actors, among other topics\". The reviewer notes that a respectable amount of time is spent highlighting contributions made by multiple job levels and sectors, from composers, d.p.'s, to graphic designers. The writer notes that among the film's chapters, there's \"The Graveyard Shift,\" describing producers’ early inclinations to shoot two separate language versions, \"with the Spanish-speaking thesps and crew coming in at night and working until morning\". Speier expands that the chapter, \"Escaping the Depression,\" talks of the subtle shift in the dominant portrayal of Latinos: \"during the 1930s toward playing Hispanics only as wealthy South Americans who comprise a fantasy world inhabited by \"attractive\" performers like Del Rio\". He goes on to mention the relationship between the Hollywood film industry and the president's administration of foreign policy in the documentary's chapter, \"Hollywood's First Bad Guy,\" where, \"President Woodrow Wilson is cheekily cited for helping trade relations by imploring studios to ‘be a little kinder to the Mexicans’ after Latin America banned films that made its people dumb and violent ‘greasers’\".\n\nSpeier criticizes that the documentary does not spend enough time on the vital periods it covers. Speier adds while, \"Ricardo Montalbán,\" one of the actors interviewed, \"refused to be renamed Ricky Martin, yet his views on prejudice—and he must have some—are not fully developed\". Speier goes on to say, \"Anthony Quinn left for Europe after his \"Viva Zapata\" Oscar because he was more \"accepted\" there, as most Latino thesps are, yet that collective trek is almost completely ignored\". Speier also critiques that there are several big names missing from the documentary, including Jennifer Lopez, Andy García and Selma Hayek.\n\nJournalist Bob Graham for the newspaper, the \"SFGate\" reviews this documentary, whose screening opened up the 9th Annual Festival Cine Latino in 2001. Graham describes the documentary as, \"a history of Latino contribution to American film\". The review highlights how several actors talk about how they refused to change their name to something less ethnic, but that there were others who did, for example, Rita Hayworth.\n\nThe writer further describes the actress’ transformation: \"as one of the most glamorous starts of American movies, Hayworth's heritage—concealed by the studios during her heyday in the 1940s—has since become the subject verging on myth. The review describes how the myth motivated physical changes: \"She kept that name for her first 10 movies when, according to the documentary, she was \"de-Latinized\" and turned into the glamorous figure we remember today. Her name was changed and her hair lightened\".\n\nIn an interview from 2009 on \"LatinoLA\", De Los Santos was asked what she considered to be her greatest work so far. She responded: \"While I do love all the work I have written or produced, I think the contribution of the feature-length documentary is a huge contribution to our history and the Latino legacy in Hollywood. I am very proud of that documentary\".\n\nThe review from the website, Rotten Tomatoes says that 56% of the audience liked \"The Bronze Screen: 100 Years of the Latino Image in Hollywood\".\n\nSixty-eight percent of users on the IMDb website gave the documentary a rating of 7.1 on a 10-point scale.\n\nAccording to the website, \"8 Ways to Say\", \"\"The Bronze Screen\" was nominated for the National Council of La Raza's ALMA Award for ‘Best Documentary’\".\n\nThe cast includes Benicio del Toro, Anthony Quinn, Dolores del Río, Pablo Ferro, Pablo Almodóvar, María Conchita Alonso, Alfonso Arau, Desi Arnaz, Rubén Blades, Leo Carrillo, José Ferrer, Mel Ferrer, Gael García Bernal, Rita Hayworth, Raúl Juliá, Katy Jurado, John Leguizamo, Diego Luna, Cheech Marin, Carmen Miranda, Ricardo Montalbán, Esai Morales, Antonio Moreno, Rita Moreno, Gregory Nava, Romano Navarro, Edward James Olmos, Lupe Ontiveros, Elizabeth Peña, Gilbert Roland, Cesar Romero, Henry Silva, Jimmy Smits, Raquel Torres, Lupita Tovar, Luis Valdez, Lupe Vélez, and Raquel Welch.\n\nThe making of this documentary could not have been possible without the participation and contribution of the many directors, writers, graphic designers, cinematographers, composers, and film scholars interviewed. The crew includes Wanda De Jesus, Nancy De Los Santos, Alberto Dominguez, Susan Racho, José Cancela, Pablo Ferro, Mark Hurwitz, Aida Yohannes, Luca Bentivoglio, Gabriela Gonzalez, Luis Ortiz, and Efrain Osorio.\n\nProfesora Rosa-Linda Fregoso, a Latin American and Latino Studies (LALS) professor at University of California, Santa Cruz, gives her scholarly insights in the documentary. Nine years after the publishing of her 1993 book, \"\", the documentary releases, covering many of the same Latino themes.\n\n"}
{"id": "5313428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5313428", "title": "Theodric Romeyn Beck", "text": "Theodric Romeyn Beck\n\nTheodric Romeyn Beck (April 11, 1791 – November 19, 1855), alternatively Theodoric Romeyn Beck or T. Romeyn Beck, was an American physician in Albany, New York specializing in medical jurisprudence who authored the first significant American book on forensic medicine, \"Elements of Medical Jurisprudence\" in 1823.\n\nBeck was born in Schenectady, New York, to the family of Caleb Beck of English descent. He graduated from Union College at the age of 16 and the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons with an M.D. at the age of 20 before going into practice in Albany in 1811. In 1813 he presented to the Albany Society of Arts a comprehensive paper on the mineral resources of the United States. In 1815 he was appointed professor of the institutes of medicine, and lecturer on medical jurisprudence in the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Western New York, at Fairfield. Blake was also elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1815. He served as the Principal of The Albany Academy from 1817 to 1848, where he encouraged the future curator of the Smithsonian Institution, Joseph Henry, to enroll as a student and later serve as a professor of mathematics and natural philosophy in 1826. Also during this time, he was a professor of medical jurisprudence at Fairfield Medical College from 1826 until 1836, and professor of materia medica in that institution from 1836 till 1840, and at Albany Medical College from 1840 until 1854.\n\nHis principal work was \"Elements of Medical Jurisprudence\". His brother John Brodhead Beck, also a physician, contributed the material on infanticide. The first edition was printed in 1823, a seventh edition was issued in London in 1842, with notes by Dunlap and Darwell, and a tenth in Albany in 1850.\n\nBeck also contributed to numerous scientific journals. Another of his brothers, Lewis Caleb Beck, wrote a noted book on the \"Mineralogy of New York\" (1842).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34522287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34522287", "title": "Tidsskrift for Rettsvitenskap", "text": "Tidsskrift for Rettsvitenskap\n\nTidsskrift for Rettsvitenskap (English: \"Journal of Jurisprudence\") is a Norwegian law journal. It was established in 1888 by Francis Hagerup to \"form a link between legal research in the Nordic countries\" and is currently published by Universitetsforlaget. The journal is one of Scandinavia's preeminent academic journals in the field of law. It is ranked as a Level 2 journal, the highest level in the official Norwegian ranking (the Norwegian Scientific Index). Articles are published in the three Scandinavian languages: Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish.\n\nThe original spelling of the journal name was \"Tidsskrift for Retsvidenskab\", which was changed to \"Tidsskrift for Rettsvidenskap\" in 1932 and to \"Tidsskrift for Rettsvitenskap\" in 1940, i.e. from a Danish spelling to a modern Norwegian spelling.\n\nThe following persons have been editors-in-chief of the journal, most of them worked at the Faculty of Law, University of Oslo:\n"}
{"id": "43394391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43394391", "title": "Women in the United States", "text": "Women in the United States\n\nThis is about women in the United States today. For the history of women in the United States, please see History of women in the United States.\n\nThe United States has never ratified the U.N.'s Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, although it played an important role in drafting the treaty. As of 2014, the United States is thus one of only seven nations which have not ratified it – also including Iran, Palau, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, and Tonga.\n\nThe United States has ratified the Equal Rights Amendment.\n\nChild marriage, as defined by UNICEF, is observed in the United States. The UNICEF definition of child marriage includes couples who are formally married, or who live together as a sexually active couple in an informal union, with at least one member — usually the girl — being less than 18 years old. The latter practice is more common in the United States, and it is officially called cohabitation. Laws regarding child marriage vary in the different states of the United States. Generally, children 16 and over may marry with parental consent, with the age of 18 being the minimum in all but two states to marry without parental consent. Those under 16 generally require a court order in addition to parental consent.\n\nThe United States is the only high income country not to provide required paid parental leave.\n\nBirth control is legal nationwide as of 2014. Abortion is legal nationwide as of 2014; however, states are allowed to place regulations on abortion which fall short of prohibition after the first trimester of pregnancy.\n\nThe first woman elected to the United States House of Representatives was in 1917, Jeannette Rankin, she represented Montana. In 1978 the first woman was elected to the United States Senate. Women who served before her were finishing someone else's term who died in office or had resigned.\n\nCurrently (August 2014), there are 79 female representatives in the United States, making up 18% of the U.S. House of Representatives. There are also 20 female senators in the United States, making up 20% of the U.S. Senate. There are currently 3 women in the United States presidential cabinet, including: Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell, Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, and Department of Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker. As for women in positions that have the status of Cabinet-rank there are also 3 women: Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy, United States Mission to the United Nations Ambassador Samantha Power, and Small Business Administration Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet. Two of the three Deputy Chiefs of Staff are women, Anita Decker Breckenridge and Kristie Canegallo. One of two Senior Advisors is also a woman, Valerie Jarrett. The First Lady is Melania Trump and the Second Lady is Karen Pence.\n\nAs of 2017, the United States is ranked 49th of 142 applicable countries in gender equality on the World Economic Forum's Gender Gap Index.\n\nThe United States has freedom of religion as a constitutionally guaranteed right. Christianity claims the largest number of adherents. Not all religious denominations ordain women, and a few (most notably Roman Catholicism) oppose artificial contraception. Many oppose abortion.\n\nAs of 2014, women in the United States earn more post-secondary (college and graduate school) degrees than men do.\n\nAs of 2013, the most recent year for which statistics are available, average age at first marriage in the United States is 27 for women and 29 for men.\nAs of 2014, women are 46.5% of the total United States workforce.\n\nSex discrimination has been outlawed in non-ministerial employment in the United States since 1964 nationwide; however, under a judicially created doctrine called the \"ministerial exemption,\" religious organizations are immune from sex discrimination suits brought by \"ministerial employees,\" a category that includes such religious roles as priests, imams or kosher supervisors. \n\nA woman's median salary in the United States has increased over time, although as of 2014 it is only 77% of man's median salary, a phenomenon often referred to as the Gender Pay Gap. (A woman's average salary is reported as 84% of a man's average salary.) Whether this is due to discrimination is very hotly disputed, while economists and sociologists have provided evidence both supporting and debunking this assertion.\n\nViolence against women has been recognized as a public health concern in the United States. Culture in the country has promoted the trivialization women-directed violence, with media in the United States creating the appearance of violence against women unimportant to the public.\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institute of Justice reports that about 1 in every 4 women suffer from at least one physical assault experience from a partner during adulthood. About 20% of women in the United States have been victims of rape with many incidents of rape being underreported according to a 2013 study.\n\n"}
