{"id": "22037731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22037731", "title": "1950s House", "text": "1950s House\n\nThe 1950s House is a hands-on exhibit building at Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont. The exhibit is designed to allow museum visitors to experience everyday life in 1950s Vermont.\n\nThe \"1950s House\", which opened at the Shelburne Museum in 2000, brings to life the transformative history of America during the mid-20th century when a vibrant consumer culture developed after World War II. Having been built in the 1940s, it is outfitted in the late-1940s design and decoration. The furnishings and decor highlight the industrial boom of the late 1940s and early 1950s. Packed with the era’s fashionable furniture, books, toys, food, and magazines, the \"1950s House\" provides a window into mid-century visual culture.\n\nShelburne, Vermont town residents Frank and Helen LaFlam built the \"1950s House\" on land purchased in 1948 from the subdivision of a farm. In 1950 Vermont had abundant land and natural resources and the town of Shelburne, which did not institute zoning until 1957, encouraged new home building.\n\nIn designing their house, the LaFlams’ incorporated state-of-the-art amenities such as central heating, public water, and modern bathroom and kitchen appliances including a refrigerator and built-in cabinets. The burgeoning industry of the late 1940s enabled the LaFlams to purchase a ready-cut house (\"see\" prefabricated home) modeled from architectural plans and specifications that was inexpensive and easily shipped to the building site. The one-story design, attached garage, plain overhanging eaves, and simple white clapboard siding represent the hallmarks of mid-century house design. The LaFlams detailed the windows and doors with broad, stained wood trim, which is the kind of simple detailing available in a lumber-rich place like Vermont. The house, which is neither a traditional cape nor a typical ranch, has characteristics of do-it-yourself construction, with an engagingly awkward mix-and-match of new and old, typical and idiosyncratic, details.\nIn the summer of 2000, the house was opened to the public as a temporary exhibition entitled \"The Fabulous 50's: Welcome Home to Postwar Vermont\". In 2002, the exhibition was extended through 2005.\n\nAs of May 4, 2012 the 1950s house was torn down to make way for another exhibit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1031239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1031239", "title": "4-digit UNESCO Nomenclature", "text": "4-digit UNESCO Nomenclature\n\nUNESCO Nomenclature (more properly UNESCO nomenclature for fields of science and technology) is a system developed by UNESCO for classification of research papers and doctoral dissertations. There are three versions of the system, offering different levels of refinement through 2-, 4-, and 6-digit codes. This article describes the 4-digit nomenclature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18509900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18509900", "title": "Advice to a Friend on Choosing a Mistress", "text": "Advice to a Friend on Choosing a Mistress\n\n\"Advice to a Friend on Choosing a Mistress\" is a letter by Benjamin Franklin dated June 25, 1745, in which Franklin counsels a young man about channeling sexual urges. Due to its licentious nature the letter was not published in collections of Franklin's papers in the United States during the 19th century. Federal court decisions from the mid- to late- 20th century cited the document as a reason for overturning obscenity laws.\n\nFranklin begins by advising a young man that a cure for sexual urges is unknown, and the proper solution is to take a wife. Then, expressing doubts that the intended reader will actually marry, Franklin names several advantages of marriage. As supplementary advice in case the recipient rejects all previous arguments, Franklin lists seven reasons why an older mistress is preferable to a young one. Advantages include better conversation, less risk of unwanted pregnancy, and \"greater prudence in conducting an intrigue.\"\n\nAccording to John Richard Stevens, the unnamed correspondent is a friend of Franklin's named Cadwaller Colton, and it remains unknown whether Franklin was serious or if the letter was ever delivered. Whether serious or humorous, the letter is frankly sexual:\nThe Mistress letter was not the only document by Franklin that later generations censored. The bawdy portion of Franklin's writing was accepted during his own era. Although the Mistress letter was not published during his lifetime, Franklin's public works include an essay called \"Fart Proudly\". A passage from his \"Autobiography\" describes an unsuccessful attempt to seduce a friend's mistress. As John Semonche observes in \"Censoring Sex: A Historical Journey Through American Media\", the autobiography was widely read during the 19th century because of its moral lessons, but the passage about the failed seduction was variously altered or deleted entirely. The Mistress letter was omitted from 19th century publications of Franklin's works, and by some accounts it was singled out for suppression.\n\nThis censorship occurred both informally and under law. The first state to enact obscenity legislation was Vermont in 1821. During the following decades every state except New Mexico adopted similar laws. Then the Comstock Act of 1873 made it a federal crime to circulate \"obscene, lewd, and/or lascivious\" material through the mail.\n\nAlthough Franklin had mistresses throughout his life (including one still-unknown mistress who bore his only son William Franklin), such circumstances were incompatible with patriotic sensibilities a century afterward. Amy Beth Werbel opines bluntly:\n\nBy the mid-20th century, United States federal judges were citing the letter in originalist reasoning to overturn obscenity laws. A Jerome Frank appellate opinion of 1957 named \"Advice to a Young Man on Choosing a Mistress\" along with \"The Speech of Polly Baker\" as two examples that would have convicted one of the nation's leading founding fathers on federal obscenity charges if they had been written and mailed under subsequent law.\n\nThe most notable of these citations occurred in the United States Supreme Court case, \"United States v. 12 200-ft. Reels of Film\". In a dissenting opinion, Justice William O. Douglas states:\nThe letter is also referenced during a conversation with Benjamin Franklin in the 2012 video game \"Assassin's Creed III\" during a cutscene in a general store.\n\n"}
{"id": "268034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268034", "title": "Allgemeine Encyclopädie der Wissenschaften und Künste", "text": "Allgemeine Encyclopädie der Wissenschaften und Künste\n\nThe Allgemeine Encyclopädie der Wissenschaften und Künste (\"Universal Encyclopaedia of Sciences and Arts\") was a 19th-century German encyclopaedia published by Johann Samuel Ersch and Johann Gottfried Gruber, therefore also known as the \"Ersch-Gruber.\" One of the most ambitious encyclopaedia projects ever, it remains uncompleted.\n\nIt was designed and begun in 1813 by Professor Ersch to satisfy the wants of Germans, only in part supplied by foreign works. It was stopped by the Napoleonic Wars until 1816, when Professor Gottlieb Hufeland joined, but he died on November 25, 1817, while the specimen part was at press. The first volume appeared in Leipzig in 1818. The editors of the different sections at various times were some of the best-known men of learning in Germany, including Gruber, M.H.E. Meier, Hermann Brockhaus, W. Müller and A.G. Hoffmann of Jena. Naturalist Eduard Poeppig wrote most of the articles on the Americas. All articles bear the authors' names, and those not ready in time were placed at the end of their letter.\n\nThe work is divided into three sections: \n\nFrom its beginning through 1830, the \"Encyclopädie\" was published at Leipzig by Johan Friedrich Gleditsch. From 1831 until publication ceased in 1889, the \"Encyclopädie\" was published by Friedrich Arnold Brockhaus, also of Leipzig. Gleditsch published volumes 1 through 21 of the first section; volumes 1 through 7 of the second, but only the first volume of the third section. Brockhaus published the remaining volumes through 1889. By 1889, when the project was abandoned, the \"Encyclopädie\" had reached 167 volumes. The article about Greece alone covered 3,668 pages, spanning eight volumes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4744145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4744145", "title": "Berclair Mansion", "text": "Berclair Mansion\n\nThe Berclair Mansion was built in 1936. It is a 22-room, mansion located in Berclair, Texas (between Goliad and Beeville, Texas). It is considered the largest steel strand house in the US, constructed with over 60 tons of concrete and steel.\n\nThe house is owned and operated by the Beeville Art Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "42522200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42522200", "title": "Bethel v Hillyard", "text": "Bethel v Hillyard\n\nBethell v Hildyard 38 Ch.D. 220. [1885 B. 2119.] is an important legal judgment of the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice, England. The matter heard before Justice Striling concerned succession to property by the child of a marriage contracted by Christopher Bethell, an English man in Bechuanaland South Africa with Teepoo, a Barolong woman according to the customs of the Baralong people.\n\nThe marriage was held not to be a valid marriage according to the law of England because the customs of the Baralong people permitted polygamy. The child was held not entitled to succeed to her father's property.\n\n"}
{"id": "12998290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12998290", "title": "Bibliography of Jimmy Carter", "text": "Bibliography of Jimmy Carter\n\nBooks about and authored by Jimmy Carter, the 39th President of the United States (1977–1981).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16351700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16351700", "title": "CAMELS rating system", "text": "CAMELS rating system\n\nThe CELS ratings or Camels rating is a supervisory rating system originally developed in the U.S. to classify a bank's overall condition. It is applied to every bank and credit union in the U.S. (approximately 8,000 institutions) and is also implemented outside the U.S. by various banking supervisory regulators. \n\nThe ratings are assigned based on a ratio analysis of the financial statements, combined with on-site examinations made by a designated supervisory regulator. In the U.S. these supervisory regulators include the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the National Credit Union Administration, the Farm Credit Administration, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. \n\nRatings are not released to the public but only to the top management to prevent a possible bank run on an institution which receives a CAMELS rating downgrade. Institutions with deteriorating situations and declining CAMELS ratings are subject to ever increasing supervisory scrutiny. Failed institutions are eventually resolved via a formal resolution process designed to protect retail depositors. \n\nThe components of a bank's condition that are assessed:\nRatings are given from 1 (best) to 5 (worst) in each of the above categories.\n\nIn India, for supervision (inspection) of banks an extended framework is used which is named - C A M E L S C where the alphabets C A M E L stand for what has been mentioned above but, 'S'- means- 'Systems' (like, Management Information System- MIS) and 'C' means- 'Compliance' - to various rules, regulations, Acts. etc. (https://www.nabard.org/content1.aspx?id=523&catid=8&mid=490) \n\nIn 1979, the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System (UFIRS) was implemented in U.S. banking institutions, and later globally, following a recommendation by the U.S. Federal Reserve. The system became internationally known with the abbreviation CAMEL, reflecting five assessment areas: capital, asset quality, management, earnings and liquidity. In 1995 the Federal Reserve and the OCC replaced CAMEL with CAMELS, adding the \"S\" which stands for (S)ensitivity to Market Risk.\n\nThe rating system is designed to take into account and reflect all significant financial and operational factors examiners assess in their evaluation of an institutions performance. Institutions are rated using a combination of specific financial ratios and examiner qualitative judgments.\n\nThe following describes some details of the CAMEL system in the context of examining a credit union.\n\nIndicates strong performance and risk management practices that consistently provide for safe and sound operations. Management clearly identifies all risks and employs compensating factors mitigating concerns. The historical trend and projections for key performance measures are consistently positive. Banks and credit unions in this group resist external economic and financial disturbances and withstand the unexpected actions of business conditions more ably than banks and credit unions with a lower composite rating. Any weaknesses are minor and can be handled in a routine manner by the board of directors and management. These banks and credit unions are in substantial compliance with laws and regulations. Such institutions give no cause for supervisory concern.\n\nReflects satisfactory performance and risk management practices that consistently provide for safe and sound operations. Management identifies most risks and compensates accordingly. Both historical and projected key performance measures should generally be positive with any exceptions being those that do not directly affect safe and sound operations. Banks and credit unions in this group are stable and able to withstand business fluctuations quite well; however, minor areas of weakness may be present which could develop into conditions of greater concern. These weaknesses are well within the board of directors' and management's capabilities and willingness to correct. These banks and credit unions are in substantial compliance with laws and regulations. The supervisory response is limited to the extent that minor adjustments are resolved in the normal course of business and that operations continue to be satisfactory.\n\nRepresents performance that is flawed to some degree and is of supervisory concern. Risk management practices may be less than satisfactory relative to the bank's or credit union's size, complexity, and risk profile. Management may not identify and provide mitigation of significant risks. Both historical and projected key performance measures may generally be flat or negative to the extent that safe and sound operations may be adversely affected. Banks and credit unions in this group are only nominally resistant to the onset of adverse business conditions and could easily deteriorate if concerted action is not effective in correcting certain identifiable areas of weakness. Overall strength and financial capacity is present so as to make failure only a remote probability. These banks and credit unions may be in significant noncompliance with laws and regulations. Management may lack the ability or willingness to effectively address weaknesses within appropriate time frames. Such banks and credit unions require more than normal supervisory attention to address deficiencies.\n\nRefers to poor performance that is of serious supervisory concern. Risk management practices are generally unacceptable relative to the bank's or credit union's size, complexity and risk profile. Key performance measures are likely to be negative. Such performance, if left unchecked, would be expected to lead to conditions that could threaten the viability of the bank or credit union. There may be significant noncompliance with laws and regulations. The board of directors and management are not satisfactorily resolving the weaknesses and problems. A high potential for failure is present but is not yet imminent or pronounced. Banks and credit unions in this group require close supervisory attention.\n\nConsidered unsatisfactory performance that is critically deficient and in need of immediate remedial attention. Such performance, by itself or in combination with other weaknesses, directly threatens the viability of the bank or credit union. The volume and severity of problems are beyond management's ability or willingness to control or correct. Banks and credit unions in this group have a high probability of failure and will likely require liquidation and the payoff of shareholders, or some other form of emergency assistance, merger, or acquisition.\n\nPart 702 of the NCUA Rules and Regulations sets forth the statutory net worth categories, and risk-based net worth requirements for federally insured credit unions. References are made in this Letter to the five net worth categories which are: \"well capitalized,\" \"adequately capitalized\", \"undercapitalized,\" \"significantly undercapitalized,\" and \"critically undercapitalized.\"\n\nCredit unions that are less than \"adequately capitalized\" must operate under an approved net worth restoration plan. Examiners evaluate capital adequacy by assessing progress toward goals set forth in the plan.\n\nDetermining the adequacy of a credit union's capital begins with a qualitative evaluation of critical variables that directly bear on the institution's overall financial condition. Included in the assessment of capital is the examiners opinion of the strength of the credit union's capital position over the next year or several years based on the credit union's plan and underlying assumptions. Capital is a critical element in the credit union's risk management program. The examiner assesses the degree to which credit, interest rate, liquidity, transaction, compliance, strategic, and reputation risks may impact on the credit union's current and future capital position. The examiner also considers the interrelationships with the other areas:\n\n\nCredit unions that maintain a level of capital fully commensurate with their current and expected risk profiles and can absorb any present or anticipated losses are accorded a rating of 1 for capital. Such credit unions generally maintain capital levels at least at the statutory net worth requirements to be classified as \"well capitalized\" and meet their risk-based net worth requirement. Further, there should be no significant asset quality problems, earnings deficiencies, or exposure to credit or interest-rate risk that could negatively affect capital.\n\nA capital adequacy rating of 2 is accorded to a credit union that also maintains a level of capital fully commensurate with its risk profile both now and in the future and can absorb any present or anticipated losses. However, its capital position will not be as strong overall as those of 1 rated credit unions. Also, there should be no significant asset quality problems, earnings deficiencies, or exposure to interest-rate risk that could affect the credit union's ability to maintain capital levels at least at the \"adequately capitalized\" net worth category. Credit unions in this category should meet their risk-based net worth requirements.\n\nA capital adequacy rating of 3 reflects a level of capital that is at least at the \"undercapitalized\" net worth category. Such credit unions normally exhibit more than ordinary levels of risk in some significant segments of their operation. There may be asset quality problems, earnings deficiencies, or exposure to credit or interest-rate risk that could affect the credit union's ability to maintain the minimum capital levels. Credit unions in this category may fail to meet their risk-based net worth requirements.\n\nA capital adequacy rating of 4 is appropriate if the credit union is \"significantly undercapitalized\" but asset quality, earnings, credit or interest-rate problems will not cause the credit union to become critically undercapitalized in the next 12 months. A 4 rating may be appropriate for a credit union that does not have sufficient capital based on its capital level compared with the risks present in its operations.\n\nA 5 rating is given to a credit union if it is critically undercapitalized, or has significant asset quality problems, negative earnings trends, or high credit or interest-rate risk exposure is expected to cause the credit union to become \"critically undercapitalized\" in the next 12 months. Such credit unions are exposed to levels of risk sufficient to jeopardize their solvency.\n\nAsset quality is high loan concentrations that present undue risk to the credit union;\n\nThe asset quality rating is a function of present conditions and the likelihood of future deterioration or improvement based on economic conditions, current practices and trends. The examiner assesses credit union's management of credit risk to determine an appropriate component rating for Asset Quality. Interrelated to the assessment of credit risk, the examiner evaluates the impact of other risks such as interest rate, liquidity, strategic, and compliance.\n\nThe quality and trends of all major assets must be considered in the rating. This includes loans, investments, other real estate owned (ORE0s), and any other assets that could adversely impact a credit union's financial condition.\n\nA rating of 1 reflects high asset quality and minimal portfolio risks. In addition, lending and investment policies and procedures are in writing, conducive to safe and sound operations and are followed. \n\nA 2 rating denotes high-quality assets although the level and severity of classified assets are greater in a 2 rated institution. Credit unions that are 1 and 2 rated will generally exhibit trends that are stable or positive.\n\nA rating of 3 indicates a significant degree of concern, based on either current or anticipated asset quality problems. Credit unions in this category may have only a moderate level of problem assets. However, these credit unions may be experiencing negative trends, inadequate loan underwriting, poor documentation, higher risk investments, inadequate lending and investment controls and monitoring that indicate a reasonable probability of increasingly higher levels of problem assets and high-risk concentration.\n\nAsset quality ratings of 4 and 5 represent increasingly severe asset quality problems. A rating of 4 indicates a high level of problem assets that will threaten the institution's viability if left uncorrected. A 4 rating should also be assigned to credit unions with moderately severe levels of classified assets combined with other significant problems such as inadequate valuation allowances, high-risk concentration, or poor underwriting, documentation, collection practices, and high-risk investments. Rating 5 indicates that the credit union's viability has deteriorated due to the corrosive effect of its asset problems on its earnings and level of capital.\n\nManagement is the most forward-looking indicator of condition and a key determinant of whether a credit union possesses the ability to correctly diagnose and respond to financial stress. The management component provides examiners with objective, and not purely subjective, indicators. An assessment of management is not solely dependent on the current financial condition of the credit union and will not be an average of the other component ratings.\n\nReflected in this component rating is both the board of directors' and management's ability to identify, measure, monitor, and control the risks of the credit union's activities, ensure its safe and sound operations, and ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Management practices should address some or all of the following risks: credit, interest rate, liquidity, transaction, compliance, reputation, strategic, and other risks.\n\nThe management rating is based on the following areas, as well as other factors as discussed below.\n\nThe credit union's strategic plan is a systematic process that defines management's course in assuring that the organization prospers in the next two to three years. The strategic plan incorporates all areas of a credit union's operations and often sets broad goals, e.g., capital accumulation, growth expectations, enabling credit union management to make sound decisions. The strategic plan should identify risks within the organization and outline methods to mitigate concerns.\n\nAs part of the strategic planning process, credit unions should develop business plans for the next one or two years. The board of directors should review and approve the business plan, including a budget, in the context of its consistency with the credit union's strategic plan. The business plan is evaluated against the strategic plan to determine if it is consistent with its strategic plan. Examiners also assess how the plan is put into effect. The plans should be unique to and reflective of the individual credit union. The credit union's performance in achieving its plan strongly influences the management rating.\n\nInformation systems and technology should be included as an integral part of the credit union's strategic plan. Strategic goals, policies, and procedures addressing the credit union's information systems and technology (\"IS&T\") should be in place. Examiners assess the credit union's risk analysis, policies, and oversight of this area based on the size and complexity of the credit union and the type and volume of e-Commerce services' offered. Examiners consider the criticality of e-Commerce systems2 and services in their assessment of the overall IS&T plan.\n\nPrompt corrective action may require the development of a net worth restoration plan (\"NWRP\") in the event the credit union becomes less than adequately capitalized. A NWRP addresses the same basic issues associated with a business plan. The plan should be based on the credit union's asset size, complexity of operations, and field of membership. It should specify the steps the credit union will take to become adequately capitalized. If a NWRP is required, the examiner will review the credit union's progress toward achieving the goals set forth in the plan.\n\nAn area that plays a crucial role in the control of a credit union's risks is its system of internal controls. Effective internal controls enhance the safeguards against system malfunctions, errors in judgment and fraud. Without proper controls in place, management will not be able to identify and track its exposure to risk. Controls are also essential to enable management to ensure that operating units are acting within the parameters established by the board of directors and senior management.\n\nSeven aspects of internal controls deserve special attention:\n\nOther key factors to consider when assessing the management of a credit union include, but are not limited to:\n\nThe board of directors and management have a fiduciary responsibility to the members to maintain very high standards of professional conduct:\n\nA management rating of 1 indicates that management and directors are fully effective. They are responsive to changing economic conditions and other concerns and are able to cope successfully with existing and foreseeable problems that may arise in the conduct of the credit union's operation.\n\nFor a management rating of 2, minor deficiencies are noted, but management produces a satisfactory record of performance in light of the institution's particular circumstances.\n\nA 3 rating in management indicates that either operating performance is lacking in some measures, or some other conditions exist such as inadequate strategic planning or inadequate response to NCUA supervision. Management is either characterized by modest talent when above average abilities are needed or is distinctly below average for the type and size of the credit union. Thus, management's responsiveness or ability to correct less than satisfactory conditions is lacking to some degree.\n\nA management rating of 4 indicates that serious deficiencies are noted in management's ability or willingness to meet its responsibilities. Either management is considered generally unable to manage the credit union in a safe and sound manner or conflict-of-interest situations exist that suggest that management is not properly performing its fiduciary responsibilities. In these cases, problems resulting from management weakness are of such severity that management may need to be strengthened or replaced before sound conditions can be achieved.\n\nA management rating of 5 is applicable to those instances where incompetence or self-dealing has been clearly demonstrated. In these cases, problems resulting from management weakness are of such severity that some type of administrative action may need to be initiated, including the replacement of management, in order to restore safe and sound operations.\n\nThe continued viability of a credit union depends on its ability to earn an appropriate return on its assets which enables the institution to fund expansion, remain competitive, and replenish and/or increase capital.\n\nIn evaluating and rating earnings, it is not enough to review past and present performance alone. Future performance is of equal or greater value, including performance under various economic conditions. Examiners evaluate \"core\" earnings: that is the long-run earnings ability of a credit union discounting temporary fluctuations in income and one-time items. A review for the reasonableness of the credit union's budget and underlying assumptions is appropriate for this purpose. Examiners also consider the interrelationships with other risk areas such as credit and interest rate.\n\nKey factors to consider when assessing the credit union's earnings are:\n\nEarnings rated 1 are currently, and are projected to be, sufficient to fully provide for loss absorption and capital formation with due consideration to asset quality, growth, and trends in earnings.\n\nAn institution with earnings that are positive and relatively stable may receive a 2 rating, provided its level of earnings is adequate in view of asset quality and operating risks. The examiner must consider other factors, such as earnings trends and earnings quality to determine if earnings should be assigned a 2 rating.\n\nA 3 rating should be accorded if current and projected earnings are not fully sufficient to provide for the absorption of losses and the formation of capital to meet and maintain compliance with regulatory requirements. The earnings of such institutions may be further hindered by inconsistent earnings trends, chronically insufficient earnings or less than satisfactory performance on assets.\n\nEarnings rated 4 may be characterized by erratic fluctuations in net income, the development of a severe downward trend in income, or a substantial drop in earnings from the previous period, and a drop in projected earnings is anticipated. The examiner should consider all other relevant quantitative and qualitative measures to determine if a 4 is the appropriate rating.\n\nCredit unions experiencing consistent losses should be rated 5 in Earnings. Such losses may represent a distinct threat to the credit union's solvency through the erosion of capital. A 5 rating would normally be assigned to credit unions that are unprofitable to the point that capital will be depleted within twelve months.\n\nAsset and liability management (ALM) is the process of evaluating, monitoring, and controlling balance sheet risk (interest rate risk and liquidity risk). A sound ALM process integrates strategic, profitability, and net worth planning with risk management. Examiners review (a) interest rate risk sensitivity and exposure; (b) reliance on short-term, volatile sources of funds, including any undue reliance on borrowings; (c) availability of assets readily convertible into cash; and (d) technical competence relative to ALM, including the management of interest rate risk, cash flow, and liquidity, with a particular emphasis on assuring that the potential for loss in the activities is not excessive relative to its capital. ALM covers both interest rate and liquidity risks and also encompasses strategic and reputation risks.\n\nInterest-Rate Risk - the risk of adverse changes to earnings and capital due to changing levels of interest rates. Interest-rate risk is evaluated principally in terms of the sensitivity and exposure of the value of the credit union's investment and loan portfolios to changes in interest rates. In appraising ALM, attention should be directed to the credit union's liability funding costs relative to its yield on assets and its market environment.\n\nWhen evaluating this component, the examiner considers: management's ability to identify, measure, monitor, and control interest rate risk; the credit union's size; the nature and complexity of its activities; and the adequacy of its capital and earnings in relation to its level of interest rate risk exposure. The examiner also considers the overall adequacy of established policies, the effectiveness of risk optimization strategies, and the interest rate risk methodologies. These policies should outline individual responsibilities, the credit union's risk tolerance, and ensure timely monitoring and reporting to the decision-makers. Examiners determine that the ALM system is commensurate with the complexity of the balance sheet and level of capital.\n\nKey factors to consider in evaluating sensitivity to interest rate risk include:\n\nLiquidity risk is the risk of not being able to efficiently meet present and future cash flow needs without adversely affecting daily operations. Liquidity is evaluated on the basis of the credit union's ability to meet its present and anticipated cash flow needs, such as, funding loan demand, share withdrawals, and the payment of liabilities and expenses. Liquidity risk also encompasses poor management of excess funds.\n\nThe examiner considers the current level of liquidity and prospective sources of liquidity compared to current and projected funding needs. Funding needs include loan demand, share withdrawals, and the payment of liabilities and expenses. Examiners review reliance on short-term, volatile sources of funds, including any undue reliance on borrowings; availability of assets readily convertible into cash; and technical competence relative to liquidity and cash flow management. Examiners also review the impact of excess liquidity on the credit union's net interest margin, which is an indicator of interest rate risk.\n\nThe cornerstone of a strong liquidity management system is the identification of the credit union's key risks and a measurement system to assess those risks.\n\nKey factors to consider in evaluating the liquidity management include:\n\nExaminers will consider the overall adequacy of established policies, limits, and the effectiveness of risk optimization strategies when assigning a rating. These policies should outline individual responsibilities, the credit union's risk tolerance, and ensure timely monitoring and reporting to the decision makers.\n\nExaminers determine that the liquidity management system is commensurate with the complexity of the balance sheet and amount of capital. This includes evaluating the mechanisms to monitor and control risk, management's response when risk exposure approaches or exceeds the credit union's risk limits, and corrective action taken, when necessary.\n\nExaminers will have regulatory concern if one or more of the following circumstances exist:\n\nA rating of 1 indicates that the credit union exhibits only modest exposure to balance sheet risk. Management has demonstrated it has the necessary controls, procedures, and resources to effectively manage risks. Interest rate risk and liquidity risk management are integrated into the credit union's organization and planning to promote sound decisions. Liquidity needs are met through planned funding and controlled uses of funds. Liquidity contingency plans have been established and are expected to be effective in meeting unanticipated funding needs. The level of earnings and capital provide substantial support for the degree of balance risk taken by the credit union.\n\nA rating of 2 indicates that the credit union's risk exposure is reasonable, management's ability to identify, measure, monitor, control, and report risk is sufficient, and it appears to be able to meet its reasonably anticipated needs. There is only moderate potential that earnings performance or capital position will be adversely affected. Policies, personnel, and planning reflect that risk management is conducted as part of the decision-making process. The level of earnings and capital provide adequate support for the degree of balance sheet risk taken by the credit union.\n\nA rating of 3 indicates that the risk exposure of the credit union is substantial, and management's ability to manage and control risk requires improvement. Liquidity may be insufficient to meet anticipated operational needs, necessitating unplanned borrowing. Improvements are needed to strengthen policies, procedures, or the organization's understanding of balance sheet risks. A rating of 3 may also indicate the credit union is not meeting its self-imposed risk limits or is not taking timely action to bring performance back into compliance. The level of earnings and capital may not adequately support the degree of balance sheet risk taken by the credit union.\n\nRatings of 4 and 5 indicate that the credit union exhibits an unacceptably high exposure to risk. Management does not demonstrate an acceptable capacity to measure and manage interest-rate risk, or the credit union has an unacceptable liquidity position. Analyses under modeling scenarios indicate that a significant deterioration in performance is very likely for credit unions rated 4 and inevitable for credit unions rated 5. Ratings of 4 or 5 may also indicate levels of liquidity such that the credit union cannot adequately meet demands for funds. Such a credit union should take immediate action to lower its interest-rate exposure, improve its liquidity, or otherwise improve its condition. The level of earnings and capital provide inadequate support for the degree of balance sheet risk taken by the credit union.\n\nA rating of 5 would be appropriate for a credit union with an extreme risk exposure or liquidity position so critical as to constitute an imminent threat to the credit union's continued viability. Risk management practices are wholly inadequate for the size, sophistication, and level of balance sheet risk taken by the credit union.\n\nSensitivity to 'market risk', the \"S\" in CAMELS is a complex and evolving measurement area. It was added in 1995 by Federal Reserve and the OCC primarily to address interest rate risk, the sensitivity of all loans and deposits to relatively abrupt and unexpected shifts in interest rates. In 1995 they were also interested in banks lending to farmers, and the sensitivity of farmers ability to make loan repayments as specific crop prices fluctuate. Unlike classic ratio analysis, which most of CAMELS system was based on, which relies on relatively certain, historical, audited financial statements, this \"forward look\" approach involved examining various hypothetical \"future\" price and rate scenarios and then modelling their effects. The variability in the approach is significant.\n\nIn June 1996 a Joint Agency Policy Statement was issued by the OCC, Treasury, Fed and FDIC defining interest rate risk as the exposure of a bank’s financial condition to adverse movements in interest rates resulting from the following: \n\nThe CAMELS system failed to provide early detection and prevention of the financial crisis of 2007–2008. Informed and motivated by the large bank failures, and the ensuing crisis, in June 2009 the FDIC announced a significantly expanded \"Forward-Looking Supervision\" approach, and provided extensive training to its front line bank examiners. These are the employees of the Division of Supervision and Consumer Protection (DSC) who visit the banks, apply the official guidelines to practical situations, make assessments, and assign the CAMELS ratings on behalf of the FDIC. Since FDIC is a limited insurance pool they are highly concerned with any rise in bank failure rates. In the same period various other regulators began official stress testing of large banks, with the results often publicly disclosed. See Stress test (financial), List of bank stress tests, List of systemically important banks.\n\n\"Sensitivity to market risk\" can cover ever increasing territory. What began as an assessment of interest rate and farm commodity price risk exposures has grown exponentially over time. \"Forward-looking Supervision\" and \"sensitivity to market risk\" can include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28712036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28712036", "title": "CAMPUS (database)", "text": "CAMPUS (database)\n\nCAMPUS (acronym for \"Computer Aided Material Preselection by Uniform Standards\") is a multilingual database for the properties of plastics. It is considered worldwide as a leader in regard to the level of standardization and therefore, ease of comparison, of plastics properties. It also supports diagrams to a large extent. CAMPUS is based on ISO standards 10350, for single-point value e.g. the density, and 11403, for diagrams, e.g. the Stress–strain curve.\n\nIn the 1980s, the European market for thermoplastics compounds was extremely confusing. On one hand, the number of supplied grades went up from 5,000 to 10,000, while on the other hand, more than 2,500 technical specifications were published alone by the German DIN that were dealing with plastics in general. Moreover, the citation of a testing standard alone was not sufficient, to exactly specify a test method let alone the question of sample preparation. Within the same period, personal computers became more widely available and were also used to collect plastics data. Many users, molders and material suppliers did that in parallel and completely independently, some using different scales of measurement. Therefore, the question arose how to compare such data.\n\nFor all these reasons, a DIN committee (\"DIN-Fachnormkreis\") began in 1984 to create a list of preferred test methods for plastics testing (the so-called \"Grundwertekatalog\", \"Ground-values-catalog\")) which should fulfill the following constrictions:\n\nIn the European standardization community, the proposal was further developed under close cooperation with UK, France and West Germany (so-called \"Tripartite-Forum\") within ISO TC61/SC1/WG4 and finally published in 1990 as ISO documents 10350 and ISO 11403. In the years after, these two standards were revised several times, most recently in 2008 resp. 2003.\n\nThe early days\n\nAt the beginning of 1987, the process was discussed to speed-up the public awareness for the \"Grundwertekatalog\" by developing a unique database format for several raw-material suppliers. This idea was further being discussed within major supply companies of the time, such as BASF, Bayer, Hoechst and Hüls. They found more advantages:\n\nIn March 1987, the first meeting was held between experts from these four companies in order to define the architectural needs for the database development:\n\nIn further meetings, product requirement specifications were created, and a discussion was held about the naming started. It was finally decided to use the acronym \"CAMPUS\" (Computer Aided Material Preselection by Uniform Standards), whereby \"Preselection\" shall emphasize that for the final choice of material parts testing is essential as well. The programming began and on February 23, 1988, CAMPUS 1.2 was presented in a press conference held during a VDI-K conference. Thereby it was also announced, that any raw material supplier could purchase a licence, but the customer would get standardized data free of charge. The licence includes a commitment to strongly follow the \"Grundwertekatalog\". It was released by \"Chemie Wirtschaftsförderungs Gesellschaft mbH\" (CWFG).\n\nVersion 2 and 3\n\nFrom the start, CAMPUS had an excellent reputation among experts, which allowed for a quick spread and further development. By autumn 1989, a prototype of version 2 was introduced at the K'89 trade show and delivered by mid-1990. The version had an improved user interface and was extended by further single-point values essential for rheological and thermal-calculation programs. For the first time, functional dependencies of properties could be shown in diagrams, e.g. viscosity-shear-diagrams or stress-strain-diagrams. Due to the limited memory space, a concept was introduced that represented a curve by a couple of spline nodes. By August 1990, the system was licensed by 22 European plastic suppliers.\n\nThe version 3.0 was a completely new development with a modified data structure. It provided much more usability (menus with mouse-control, searching profile, abbreviations, curve superposition, PostScript printing, preferences storage) by using new hardware features as well as an extended property catalogue following the latest standard revision. The product texts were extended, and the units of measurement could now be switched between SI and US customary units. This version was also the beginning for the globalization of CAMPUS, because it was no longer licensed only by European suppliers but also by DuPont and Dow Chemical from the USA.\n\nVersion 4\n\nIn Asia, particularly in Japan, there appeared a strong demand for CAMPUS data in 1995. However, the widely used NEC-DOS did not allow for a direct implementation of the software in Kanji text. Therefore, the overdue development of a Microsoft Windows-based version was initiated. This was 4.0, which also allowed for the inclusion of processing data for plastics. Since there is no technical standard established for this kind of data, it was kept separately for each grade and translated into each language. The Version 4.1 would also include DSC-curves and PVT-data.\n\nIn 1998, the website http://www.campusplastics.com was established. From that time on, the data could be delivered centrally. Before that, each manufacturer had to do it separately. Apparently, all data was available for download and quicker updates. At about the same time \"MCBase\" was published as Proprietary software. This special edition allowed for comparisons between databases from different material suppliers, in spreadsheets and diagrams. Moreover, data could be exported towards CAE-applications.\n\nThe next milestone was in 2001, with the inclusion of data for chemical resistance. This type of workload was not standardized in its full complexity. Therefore, the members agreed on a list of chemicals, for which they declared the general usability by means of simple symbols like smiley and stop-sign at . This allows for a simple search but does not replace a detailed analysis in specific environments. In the same version the class of TPEs was included in CAMPUS with their own set of properties. The standards had to be extended first in this manner, see below.\n\nSimultaneously, the online version was extended. In 2001 was the beginning of \"WebView\", a web application that allowed the online display of CAMPUS data. Unlike the offline version, a quicker search was possible which was especially intended for occasional users. However, the web functionality and availability of internet connections were generally limited, which is why both versions co-existed. Both versions did not allow the user to search or compare data of more than one manufacturer, which remained the main purpose for MCBase or Material Data Center.\n\nVersion 5\n\nWith the publication of Version 5, the user interface was updated and the functionality of the internet further included. WebUpdate allowed for the direct update of the database within the application. However, the database itself was only slowly developed, because a high standard was already achieved. A new feature was the implementation of up to three base polymers and up to two filler or reinforcements for blends. In version 5.1 this methodology was extended for impact modified and flame retardant grades. Moreover, heat aging data could be included for the first time.\n\nIn January 2010, the version 5.2 was published. This version included several new properties, e.g. light steadiness, extended media steadiness and emission data, and allowed for their reporting together with existing data according to VDA rules 232-201, \"Data for Selection of Thermoplastic Materials used in Interior, Exterior and Engine Compartment\".\n\nThe \"Grundwertekatalog\" contains one part for sample preparation and a second part for processing, mechanical, thermal, electrical, optical and \"other\" properties. A further group describes the behavior against environmental conditions such as fire, water and humidity. All properties and samples are standardized in ISO 10350 as follows:\n\nBeyond these single-point properties, CAMPUS offers the temperature-dependent stress-strain diagram for TPE grades.\n\nThe multipoint data included in CAMPUS are based on the International Standards for comparable multipoint data ISO 11403, Part 1 and Part 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "27503245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27503245", "title": "Chronicle of Monemvasia", "text": "Chronicle of Monemvasia\n\nThe Chronicle of Monemvasia (; rarely known as the Chronicle of the Peloponnesos) is a medieval text of which four versions, all written in medieval Greek, are extant. The author (or authors) of the account is currently unknown. The \"Chronicle\", specifically the version from the Iberikon monastery, narrates the events that depict the Avaro-Slavic conquest and colonization of mainland Greece, covering a period from 587 to 805 AD. Despite its compelling narrative, the \"Chronicle\" is not an actual chronicle. The text represents a compilation of sources involving Avars and Slavs and focuses on the foundation of the metropolitan see of Patras. It is possible that the \"Chronicle\" was actually used in negotiations with the metropolitan of Corinth over the status of the metropolitan of Patras.\n\nThe first manuscript of the \"Chronicle\" was published in 1749 by Joseph Pasinus (or Giuseppe Passini) and his colleagues, Rivautella and Berta, at the Royal Library of Turin. The text was reissued in 1884 by Spyridon P. Lambros along with two other versions, one belonging to the Iberikon monastery and the other belonging to the Koutloumousiou monastery in Mount Athos. Minor corrections were made to all three versions of the \"Chronicle\" by N. A. Bees who republished the texts in 1909. Three years later (1912), a fourth version was published by Lambros who discovered another text at the Collegio Greco in Rome.\n\nThere is currently no consensus among modern scholars regarding the chronological order of the four \"Chronicle\" manuscripts. Lambros argues that the text discovered at the Iberikon monastery is the earliest version. N. A. Bees, however, disagrees with Lambros and finds the Iberikon manuscript to be a later variant of the Turin and Koutloumousion versions. But despite the lack of consensus, recent studies show the Iberikon text to be a later version of the \"Chronicle\" through its use of the Byzantine dating system whereas the Koutloumousion and Turin texts use the older Alexandrian dating system.\n\nThe author (or authors) of the \"Chronicle of Monemvasia\" is unknown. One hypothesis by J. Koder states that Arethas of Caesarea was responsible for compiling the text. However, Koder's argument was rejected by I. Dujčev based on the \"Chronicle's\" allusion to Emperor Nikephoros II (r. 963–969), who lived after Arethas. What is ultimately known about the author(s) is his/their ignorance of Balkan geography outside of the Peloponnese, despite basing his/their depiction of Avar attacks on Procopius's description of attacks by the Huns.\n\nScholars are also divergent in their views regarding the exact composition dates of the four \"Chronicle\" manuscripts. Paul Lemerle argues that the original text was first written in 932 AD when it was used in the Scholion of Arethas. However, Spyridon Lambros believes that the Iberikon text was composed between 806 and 1083, whereas the Turin and Koutloumousion texts were written sometime during the end of the 13th century. N. A. Bees disputes Lambros’s assessment and believes the entire \"Chronicle\" was developed between 1340 and the 16th century. S. Kougeas dates the composition of the text to after the reign of Emperor Nikephoros II Phokas (r. 963–969) whereas Michael Whitby states that the \"Chronicle\" was first composed in the Peloponnese in circa 1000 AD. I. Dujčev dates the \"Chronicle\" to 963–1018 AD, and Florin Curta dates the writing of the text to either the late 10th century or the early 11th century.\n\nAccording to the Iberikon manuscript of the \"Chronicle\", the Avars/Slavs conquered Thessaly, Epirus, Attica, and the island of Euboea. As a result, many Greeks retreated to other areas: the inhabitants of Patras fled to Rhegium in Calabria, the Argives fled to the island of Orobe, the Corinthians fled to Aegina, and the Laconians fled to Sicily. The city of Monemvasia, specifically, was built at the time on the coast in an inaccessible region of the Peloponnese by groups that would later be known collectively as Tzakones. Due to the more rugged terrain of the eastern Peloponnese, the areas from Corinth to Cape Malea remained under \"Roman\" (Byzantine Greek) control. One of the governors of the Peloponnese, a native of Lesser Armenia, came into conflict with a number of Slavic tribes and successfully annihilated them. This unnamed member of the Skleroi family helped make way for the native Greeks to reclaim their lands. Upon hearing these events, Emperor Nikephoros I (r. 802–811) contributed towards revitalizing the cities, rebuilding the churches, and Christianizing the barbarians.\n\nMost of the narrative in the \"Chronicle\" is derived from works by Evagrius Scholasticus, Theophanes the Confessor, Menander Protector, and Theophylactus Simocatta. The author(s) of the \"Chronicle\", however, used another source in order to write about the Avars and Slavs establishing their rule in the Peloponnese for 218 years. This unknown text may have been a forgery of ecclesiastical origin used by or on behalf of the Bishop of Patras. Despite the source being unknown, it was used in both the Scholium of Arethas and in a letter by Patriarch Nicholas III to Emperor Alexios I Komnenos (r. 1081–1118).\n\nThe historical validity of the \"Chronicle of Monemvasia\" is still a subject of academic dispute. Peter Charanis, for example, describes the \"Chronicle\" as \"absolutely trustworthy\". Kenneth Setton, however, disagrees with Charanis and argues that the \"Chronicle\" is a \"medley of some fact and some fiction\". Stilpon Kyriakides finds that the \"Chronicle\" contains an ecclesiastical bias and that the conquest of Greece by the Avars/Slavs is a myth.\n\nThere are a number of errors and exaggerations in the \"Chronicle of Monemvasia\". For example, the city of Monemvasia was not built after the barbarians invaded Greece. In actuality, the city was constructed approximately four to five years (circa 582–583) before the advent of the Avars and Slavs. Another example entails the Corinthians' migration to the island of Aegina in the Saronic Gulf, which is contradicted by a correspondence (February 591 AD) between Pope Gregory the Great and Archbishop Anastasius of Corinth. Other sources that contradict the \"Chronicle\" include canons from the Sixth Ecumenical Synod (691–692) held in the Trullian Hall of the Great Palace of Constantinople, as well as the \"Taktika\" composed by Emperor Leo III the Isaurian (r. 717–741) between 733–746; both sources mention a continued presence of Greeks and church administrative institutions throughout mainland Greece with no indication of long-term Slavic demographic/political overlordship. As for the rebuilding of churches in the Peloponnese, there is no substantial architectural record that corroborates this particular event mentioned in the \"Chronicle\". \n\nFrom an archaeological viewpoint, the \"Chronicle of Monemvasia\" overstates the impact of the Avaro-Slavic invasions of Greece. In Methana, there is no evidence of any widespread disruption of settlement patterns (this is also the case elsewhere in the Peloponnese). The island of Kythera, on the other hand, was abandoned along with other coastal sites due to attacks conducted by one or more Slavic fleets. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "74620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74620", "title": "Château de Malmaison", "text": "Château de Malmaison\n\nChâteau de Malmaison () is a French château near the western bank of the Seine about west of the centre of Paris in Rueil-Malmaison.\n\nFormerly the residence of Empress Joséphine de Beauharnais, along with the Tuileries it was the headquarters of the French government from 1800 to 1802, and Napoleon's last residence in France at the end of the Hundred Days in 1815. In the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, the estate became a summer residence of Edward Tuck, the Vice Consul of the American Legation in Paris.\n\nJoséphine de Beauharnais bought the manor house in April 1799 for herself and her husband, General Napoléon Bonaparte, the future Napoléon I of France, at that time away fighting the Egyptian Campaign. Malmaison was a run-down estate, seven miles (12 km) west of central Paris that encompassed nearly of woods and meadows.\n\nUpon his return, Bonaparte expressed fury at Joséphine for purchasing such an expensive house with the money she had expected him to bring back from the Egyptian campaign. The house, for which she had paid well over 300,000 francs, needed extensive renovations, and she spent a fortune doing so. Malmaison would bring great happiness to the Bonapartes. Joséphine's daughter, Hortense would call it \"a delicious spot\".\n\nJoséphine endeavored to transform the large estate into \"the most beautiful and curious garden in Europe, a model of good cultivation\". She located rare and exotic plants and animals to enhance the gardens. Joséphine wrote: \"I wish that Malmaison may soon become the source of riches for all [of France]\"... \n\nIn 1800, Joséphine built a heated orangery large enough for 300 pineapple plants. Five years later, she ordered the building of a greenhouse, heated by a dozen coal-burning stoves. From 1803 until her death in 1814, Josephine cultivated nearly 200 new plants in France for the first time.\n\nThe property achieved enduring fame for its rose garden. Empress Joséphine had the Belgian artist Pierre-Joseph Redouté (1759–1840) record her roses (and lilies), and prints of these works sell quite well, even today. She created an extensive collection of roses, gathering plants from her native Martinique and from other places around the world. She grew some 250 varieties of roses. From the foreword to \"Jardin de la Malmaison\" (1803):\n\nBirds and animals of all sorts began to enrich her garden, where they were allowed to roam free among the grounds. At the height of her days at Malmaison, Joséphine had the company of kangaroos, emus, black swans, zebras, sheep, gazelles, ostriches, chamois, a seal, antelopes and llamas to name a few. Some were from the Baudin expedition.\n\nAfter her divorce from Napoléon, Joséphine received Malmaison in her own right, along with a pension of 5 million francs a year, and remained there until her death in 1814. Napoléon returned and took residence in the house after his defeat at the Battle of Waterloo (1815), before his exile to the island of Saint Helena.\n\nIn 1842 Malmaison was purchased by Maria Christina, widow of King Ferdinand VII of Spain; she lived there with her second husband Agustín Fernando Muñoz, 1st Duke of Riánsares. In 1861 Maria Christina sold the property to Napoleon III.\n\nMalmaison was fully restored by the famous French architect Pierre Humbert in the early 20th century. It is now considered an important historical monument.\n\nThe public can visit the manor house as a Napoleonic \"musée national\". The museum lies on RN 13 (\"route nationale\" 13) from Paris and bus 258 from RER A \"Grande Arche\" station.\n\n"}
{"id": "48430990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48430990", "title": "Ciro Redondo Municipal Museum", "text": "Ciro Redondo Municipal Museum\n\nCiro Redondo Municipal Museum is a museum located in Ciro Redondo, Cuba. It was established on 11 February 1983.\n\nThe museum holds collections on history, decorative arts, weaponry, archeology and numismatics.\n\n"}
{"id": "9779314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9779314", "title": "Comparison of LAN messengers", "text": "Comparison of LAN messengers\n\nThe following tables compare general and technical information for a number of LAN messengers.\n\nBasic general information about the LAN messengers: creator/company, license/price, among others.\n\nThe operating systems the messengers can run on without emulators or compatibility layers.\nInformation on what features each of the clients support.\nNote 1: Using Apple's Bonjour protocol\n\n"}
{"id": "19196455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19196455", "title": "Douche", "text": "Douche\n\nA douche is a device used to introduce a stream of water into the body for medical or hygienic reasons, or the stream of water itself. Douche usually refers to vaginal irrigation, the rinsing of the vagina, but it can also refer to the rinsing of any body cavity. A douche bag is a piece of equipment for douching—a bag for holding the fluid used in douching. To avoid transferring intestinal bacteria into the vagina, the same bag must not be used for an enema and a vaginal douche.\n\nDouching after sexual intercourse is not an effective form of birth control. Additionally, douching is associated with a number of health problems (cervical cancer, pelvic inflammatory disease, endometritis, and increased risk of sexually transmitted infections) and thus is not recommended by doctors.\n\nThe word's first known use is in 1766. \"Douche\" came into English via French, from \"conduit pipe\" and \"docciare\" \"pour by drops\" to douche, from \"doccia\" water pipe, probably back-formation from \"doccione\" conduit, from , \"ductio\" means of conveying water, from \"ducere\" to lead. In French today it means \"shower\", as it does in many non-English European languages.\n\nVaginal douches may consist of water, water mixed with vinegar, or even antiseptic chemicals. Douching has been touted as having a number of supposed but unproven benefits. In addition to promising to clean the vagina of unwanted odors, it can also be used by women who wish to avoid smearing a sexual partner's penis with menstrual blood while having sexual intercourse during menstruation. In the past, douching was also used after intercourse as a method of birth control, though it is not effective (see below).\n\nMany health-care professionals state that douching is dangerous, as it interferes with both the vagina's normal self-cleaning and with the natural bacterial culture of the vagina, and it might spread or introduce infections. Douching is implicated in a wide variety of dangers, including: adverse pregnancy outcomes including ectopic pregnancy, low birth weight, preterm labor, preterm birth, and chorioamnionitis; serious gynecologic outcomes, including increased risk of cervical cancer, pelvic inflammatory disease, endometritis, and increased risk for sexually transmitted infections, including HIV; it also predisposes women to develop bacterial vaginosis (BV), which is further associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes and increased risk of sexually transmitted infections. Due to this, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services strongly discourages douching, citing the risks of irritation, bacterial vaginosis, and pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Frequent douching with water may result in an imbalance of the pH of the vagina, and thus may put women at risk for possible vaginal infections, especially yeast infections.\n\nIn May 2003, a randomized, controlled, multi-center study was conducted with 1827 women ages 18–44 who were regular users of a douche product and who had been treated recently for a sexually transmitted bacterial infection or bacterial vaginosis. Women were randomly assigned to use either a newly designed and marketed douche product or a soft cloth towelette. There was little or no indication of a greater risk of PID among women assigned to use the douche product (versus soft cloth towelette).\n\nAntiseptics used during douching disturb the natural balance of bacteria in the vagina and can cause infections. Unclean douching equipment may introduce foreign bodies into the vagina. Douching may also wash bacteria into the uterus and Fallopian tubes, causing fertility problems. For these reasons, the practice of douching is now strongly discouraged except when ordered by a physician for medical reasons.\n\nDouching after intercourse is estimated to reduce the chances of conception by only 15–25%. In comparison, proper condom use reduces the chance of conception by as much as 97%. In some cases douching may force the ejaculate further into the vagina, increasing the chance of pregnancy. A review of studies by researchers at the University of Rochester Medical Center (N.Y.) showed that women who douched regularly and later became pregnant had higher rates of ectopic pregnancy, infections, and low birth weight infants than women who only douched occasionally or who never douched.\n\nA 1995 survey quoted in the University of Rochester study found that 27% of U.S. women age 15 to 44 douched regularly, but that douching was more common among African-American women (over 50%) than among white women (21%), and frequent douching contributes to more frequent bacterial vaginosis among African-American women than the average.\n\nMedical doctor Harriet Hall writes that not only can douching change the pH of the vagina and lead to infections, \"There is no need ... to cleanse the vagina. It cleanses itself\".\n\n\"Douchebag\" and its variants, or simply \"douche\", are pejorative terms referring to an arrogant, obnoxious, or despicable person. The slang usage of the term originated in the 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "264123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264123", "title": "Ecodefense", "text": "Ecodefense\n\nEcodefense: A Field Guide to Monkeywrenching is a book edited by Dave Foreman, with a foreword by Edward Abbey.\n\nNed Ludd Books published the first two editions, with Abbzug Press publishing a third edition. The book was first published in 1985.\n\nMuch of the inspiration for the book, as well as the term \"monkeywrenching\", came from Edward Abbey's 1975 novel \"The Monkey Wrench Gang\". Other inspiration for the book likely came from the 1972 book \"Ecotage!\", which was published by the group Environmental Action and was in turn inspired by the actions of an activist in the Chicago, Illinois area who called himself \"The Fox\", and engaged in such vigilante actions to protect the environment as plugging smokestacks. The Fox named after the Fox River northwest of Chicago was an avid historical boater whom educated and demonstrated Native American and early trapper fishing and boating techniques. The Fox was radicalized to be a founder mentor of the Earth Liberation Front movement after witnessing toxic dumping into the Fox River over decades which polluted the river to near-death. The Fox became infamous after dumping a bucket of said toxic waste upon the desk of a Stone Container Corporation executive in Chicago. The Fox was rumored also to plug drainage pipes from toxic industrial plants from his canoe along the Fox River. Much of the actual content for \"Ecodefense\" came from the \"Dear Ned Ludd\" column in the newsletter of the group Earth First! during the 1980s.\n\nMonkeywrenching is a form of ecodefense. So are temporary restraining orders and tree sitting, as well as non-violent blockade and civil disobedience.\n\nOther forms include tree spiking, and billboarding. These are more controversial because they involve destruction, vandalism, and/or the potential for injury.\n\n“Tentatively called \"Ecodefense: A Handbook on the Militant Defense of the Earth\", the publication was to be a radical environmental version of William Powell's \"Anarchist Cookbook\". In its final form, brought out by Foreman's own Ned Ludd Books (named after the nineteenth-century British worker who destroyed labor-saving machinery), \"Ecodefense: A Field Guide To Monkeywrenching\" gave practical, detailed instructions on how to decommission bulldozers, pull out survey stakes, spike trees, and generally harass and delay resource industry plans. It was an immediate success, and its popularity led Oregon's Willamette National Forest supervisor Michael Kerrick to denounce the book in a white paper presented at a congressional hearing, in which he threatened to 'close the entire [national forest logging] area to unauthorized entry' if the activities described in the book took place. Kerrick soon thereafter introduced the controversial policy of closing national forests to the public whenever environmental protests were expected.\n\nThis book was 'banned' in Australia, gazetted in 1992 as 'refused classification' and a prohibited import .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9380612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9380612", "title": "Encyclopedia of China", "text": "Encyclopedia of China\n\nThe Encyclopedia of China () is the first large-entry modern encyclopedia in the Chinese language. The compilation began in 1978. Published by the Encyclopedia of China Publishing House, the encyclopedia was issued one volume at a time, beginning in 1980 with a volume on astronomy; the final volume was completed in 1993. It comprised 74 volumes, with more than 80,000 entries. Arranged by subject, which numbered 66 (some subjects occupy more than one volume), within each subject, entries were arranged by pinyin as many modern Chinese dictionaries have been. A Uyghur language edition was also published in 2015.\n\nA CD-ROM version and a subscription-based online version are also available. A second and more concise edition of the work was published in 2009.\nThe third online edition is estimated to be released and published in the end of 2018, which would be free to use. More than 20,000 scholars participate in this online encyclopaedia program which started in 2011. including some experts from Chinese Academy of Sciences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "523179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=523179", "title": "Enemy of the people", "text": "Enemy of the people\n\nThe term enemy of the people is a designation for the political or class opponents of the subgroup in power within a larger group. The term implies that by opposing the ruling subgroup, the \"enemies\" in question are acting against the larger group, for example against society as a whole. It is similar to the notion of \"enemy of the state\". The term originated in Roman times as , typically translated into English as the \"public enemy\". The term in its \"enemy of the people\" form has been used for centuries in literature (see \"An Enemy of the People\", the play by Henrik Ibsen, 1882; or \"Coriolanus\", the play by William Shakespeare, c. 1605). Currently this form is mostly used as a reference to Soviet phraseology.\n\nThe expression dates back to Roman times. \nThe Senate declared emperor Nero a \"hostis publicus\" in AD 68.\n\nThe words \"\" were extensively used during the French revolution. On 25 December 1793 Robespierre stated: \"The revolutionary government owes to the good citizen all the protection of the nation; it owes nothing to the Enemies of the People but death\". The Law of 22 Prairial in 1794 extended the remit of the Revolutionary Tribunal to punish \"enemies of the people\", with some political crimes punishable by death, including \"spreading false news to divide or trouble the people\".\n\nThe Soviet Union made extensive use of the term (, \"vrag naroda\"), as it fit well with the idea that the people were in control. The term was used by Vladimir Lenin after coming to power, as early as in the decree of 28 November 1917:\nOther similar terms were in use as well:\n\nIn particular, the term \"enemy of the workers\" was formalized in the Article 58 (RSFSR Penal Code), and similar articles in the codes of the other Soviet Republics.\n\nAt various times these terms were applied, in particular, to Tsar Nicholas II and the Imperial family, aristocrats, the bourgeoisie, clerics, business entrepreneurs, anarchists, kulaks, monarchists, Mensheviks, Esers, Bundists, Trotskyists, Bukharinists, the \"old Bolsheviks\", the army and police, emigrants, saboteurs, wreckers (вредители, \"vrediteli\"), \"social parasites\" (тунеядцы, \"tuneyadtsy\"), \"Kavezhedists\" (people who administered and serviced the KVZhD (China Far East Railway), particularly the Russian population of Harbin, China), those considered bourgeois nationalists (notably Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Armenian, Lithuanian, Latvian, Estonian nationalists, Zionists, Basmachi).\n\nAn \"enemy of the people\" could be imprisoned, expelled or executed, and lose their property to confiscation. Close relatives of enemies of the people were labeled as \"traitor of Motherland family members\" and prosecuted. They could be sent to Gulag, punished by the involuntary settlement in unpopulated areas, or stripped of citizen's rights. Being a friend of an \"enemy of the people\" automatically placed the person under suspicion.\n\nA significant fraction of the \"enemies of the people\" were given this label not because of their hostile actions against the \"workers' and peasants' state\", but simply because of their social origin or profession before the revolution: those who used hired labor, high-ranking clergy, former policemen, merchants, etc. Some of them were commonly known as \"lishentsy\" (лишенцы, derived from Russian word \"лишение\", deprivation), because by the Soviet Constitution they were deprived of the right of voting. This automatically translated into a deprivation of various social benefits; some of them, e.g., rationing, were at times critical for survival.\n\nSince 1927, Article 20 of the Common Part of the penal code that listed possible \"measures of social defence\" had the following item 20a: \"declaration to be an enemy of the workers with deprivation of the union republic citizenship and hence of the USSR citizenship, with obligatory expulsion from its territory\". Nevertheless, most \"enemies of the people\" suffered labor camps, rather than expulsion.\n\nIn his 1956 speech denouncing Stalin’s cult of personality, Stalin's successor Nikita Khrushchev called for an end to the use of the term, stating \"the formula 'enemy of the people' was specifically introduced for the purpose of physically annihilating such individuals\" who disagreed with Stalin. For decades afterwards, \"It was so omnipresent, freighted and devastating in its use under Stalin that nobody [in Russia] wanted to touch it. ... except in reference to history and in jokes\", according to an author of a biography of Khrushchev, William Taubman.\n\nThe term returned to Russian public discourse in the late 2000s with a number of nationalist and pro-government politicians (most notably Ramzan Kadyrov) calling for restoration of the Soviet approach to the \"enemies of the people\" defined as all non-system opposition.\n\nIn Mao Zedong's 1957 speech \"On the Correct Handling of Contradictions Among the People\", he comments that \"At the present stage, the period of building socialism, the classes, strata and social groups which favour, support and work for the cause of socialist construction all come within the category of the people, while the social forces and groups which resist the socialist revolution and are hostile to or sabotage socialist construction are all \"enemies of the people\".\" (According to Philip Short, an author of biographies of Mao and Cambodia's Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot, in domestic political struggles Chinese and Cambodian communists rarely if ever used the phrase \"enemy of the people\" as they were very nationalistic, and saw it as an alien import.)\n\nRegarding the Nazi plan to relocate all Jews to Madagascar, the Nazi tabloid \"Der Stürmer\" wrote that \"The Jews don't want to go to Madagascar – They cannot bear the climate. Jews are pests and disseminators of diseases. In whatever country they settle and spread themselves out, they produce the same effects as are produced in the human body by germs. ... In former times sane people and sane leaders of the peoples made short shrift of \"enemies of the people\". They had them either expelled or killed.\"\n\nIn the United States during the 1960s leftist organizations such as the Black Panther Party and Students for a Democratic Society were known to use the term. In one inter-party dispute in February 1971, for example, Black Panther leader Huey P. Newton denounced two other Panthers as \"enemies of the people\" for allegedly putting party leaders and members in jeopardy.\n\nDuring the aftermath of the referendum on membership of the European Union, the \"Daily Mail\" was criticized for a headline describing the judges which ruled (in the \"Miller\" case) as \"Enemies of the People\" for ruling that the process for leaving the European Union (i.e. the triggering of Article 50) would require the consent of the British Parliament. The May administration had hoped to use the powers of the royal prerogative to bypass parliamentary approval. The paper issued character assassinations of all the judges involved in the ruling (Lord Chief Justice Lord Thomas, Sir Terence Etherton, and Lord Justice Sales), and received more than 1,000 complaints to the Independent Press Standards Organisation. The Secretary of State for Justice, Liz Truss issued a three line statement defending the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, which some saw as inadequate due to the delayed response and failure to condemn the attacks.\n\nOn February 17, 2017, President of the United States Donald Trump declared on Twitter that \"The New York Times\", NBC News, ABC, CBS, and CNN were \"fake news\" and the \"enemy of the people\". Trump repeated the assertion on February 24 at the Conservative Political Action Conference, saying, \"A few days ago I called the fake news the enemy of the people and they are. They are the enemy of the people.\" At a June 25, 2018 rally in South Carolina, Trump singled out journalists as \"fake newsers\" and again called them \"the enemy of the people.\" Some commentators linked these comments to a mass shooting at the offices of a newspaper publisher in Annapolis, Maryland, that took place only days later, on June 28. On July 19, 2018, following the critical reaction to his meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin on July 15, 2018 in Helsinki, Finland, Trump tweeted \"The Summit with Russia was a great success, except with the real enemy of the people, the Fake News Media.\" \"The New York Times\" noted Trump's use of this phrase during his \"moments of peak criticism\" and use of the term by Nazi and Soviet propaganda.\n\nOn August 2, 2018, after Trump tweeted \"FAKE NEWS media... is the enemy of the American People\", multiple international institutions such as the United Nations and the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights criticized Trump for his attacks on the free press. On August 16, 2018, the United States Senate unanimously passed a resolution affirming that the media is not \"the enemy of the people.\" This came several days after more than 350 media organizations editorialized in opposition to Trump's frequent attacks on the press. The resolution, which \"Reaffirm[ed] the vital and indispensable role the free press serves,\" was seen as a symbolic rebuke to Trump. It passed by unanimous vocal assent, in which the votes of individual Senators are not recorded.\n\nIn an action that may have been connected with Trump's comments, it was reported on August 29, that a California man was charged with one federal count of \"making threatening communications in interstate commerce\" for calling the newsroom of \"The Boston Globe\" 14 times between August 10 and 22, calling the newspaper the \"enemy of the people\" and threatening to kill reporters. In his call on August 16, the man was accused of saying \"You're the enemy of the people, and we're going to kill every fucking one of you. ... I'm going to shoot you in the fucking head later today, at 4 o'clock.\"\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "43799788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43799788", "title": "English-language accents in film", "text": "English-language accents in film\n\nIn film, English-language accents can be part of acting performances. Actors use dialect coaches to speak in an accent other than their own. Accents can vary by locality, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, and other factors. In film, accents are scrutinized by film critics and film audiences alike. Throughout film history, certain actors are known for their accents, and certain accents in individual films have been judged as exceptionally good or bad.\n\nIn the 1990s, dialect coaches became significant in the film industry as more filmmakers began employing them to train actors to speak in accents. The \"Los Angeles Times\" described the general training approach, \"It's a process that involves repetition, studying audio- and videotapes, visits to locations where the characters live, along with breathing and vocal exercises.\" Coaches start \"by breaking down the script phonetically\" using the International Phonetic Alphabet, and since most actors are not familiar with the alphabet, the coaches use other approaches to train actors, such as word lists or tapes. Coaches often have archives of sample tapes to reference in their work. They are usually brought in during rehearsals, the post-production process, or emotional scenes that challenge an accepted performance. In the credits, they are usually listed as dialogue consultants.\n\nAmerican accents became increasingly adopted by non-American actors by 2000. With many film-related opportunities available in the United States, actors trained to have American accents to be more competitive. At the 72nd Academy Awards honoring films of 1999, all non-American actors nominated in the four acting categories portrayed American characters, including British actor Michael Caine, who won Best Supporting Actor for his role in \"The Cider House Rules\". Another attribution to the trend is with films increasingly being co-financed by non-U.S. interests, film producers became more willing to cast non-American actors.\n\nWhile actors in theatre are traditionally trained to have a \"Standard American\" accent, actors in film are instead trained to have a General American accent. Dialect coach Robert Easton said the Standard American accent was \"too semi-British\" and opted for General American. Easton commended British actors in learning American accents, \"[They] in general are very open to doing whatever is necessary to create the character, not only in terms of dialect, but in terms of body language, mannerisms and so forth. It's an oversimplification, but the English tend to try and use themselves to find and express the character, whereas Americans are more likely to use the character to express themselves.\"\n\nHistorian Stephen Shafer identifies actor Gordon Harker, active from 1921 through 1959, as \"the leading British film expert on the portrayal of the Cockney\", while BBC News recognized the skill of actor John Mills (active 1932-2004) in Cockney speech. Dialect coach Robert Blumenfeld highlighted as an \"excellent\" cinematic example of Cockney speech the performances of Peter Sellers and Irene Handl (the latter originally Cockney) in \"I'm All Right Jack\" (1959).\nDick Van Dyke attempted a Cockney accent in \"Mary Poppins\" (1964). Van Dyke admitted the notoriety of his attempted accent and said that his British co-star Julie Andrews told him that he never got it right. More recently Don Cheadle's Cockney accent in the remake of \"Ocean's Eleven\" and its sequels has been heavily criticised and compared to Van Dyke's.\n\nBecause of the Welsh language's musical quality, the Welsh English accent is difficult for non-Welsh actors to master. The language has Celtic roots like Irish Gaelic but is more arcane. Dialect coach Penny Dyer said, \"The Welsh language has the loosest intonation system in the whole of the British Isles.\" The accent is more difficult than Irish and Scottish. For \"How Green Was My Valley\" (1941), set in Wales but filmed in California, director John Ford avoided depicting the Welsh accent by casting British and Irish actors who spoke with Irish accents. For the British film \"The Englishman Who Went Up a Hill But Came Down a Mountain\" (1995), director Christopher Monger sought to capture the accent onscreen by having actors Colm Meaney, Tara FitzGerald, and Ian Hart trained to sound like denizens of South Wales.\n\nIn 2005, when Welsh-born actor Catherine Zeta-Jones encouraged Welsh singer-songwriter Charlotte Church to hide her native accent in pursuit of an acting career, Welsh film critic Gary Slaymaker and the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art both decried the need for the disguise. RADA's Dominic Kelly said, \"We get a couple of Welsh accents through here every year, and there's now an increasing amount of demand for them. A few years ago it was Scottish, but now Welsh is very much in vogue. As long as people can understand what you are saying, the Welsh accent is a bonus. Voices need character and individuality.\" Slaymaker said, \"It's unlikely they'll be able to tell the difference between a Welsh or Irish accent. It'll just be seen as colourful.\"\n\nThe 2007 film \"The Last Sin Eater\", produced in the United States, depicted a Welsh American community living in the Appalachian Mountains, but U.S. critics criticized the accented performances as inaccurate. Welsh-accented performances are uncommon in blockbuster films, though director Peter Jackson requested for Welsh-born actor Luke Evans to use his native accent for his character in \"The Hobbit\" films. The decision also led to casting Welsh-accented actors to portray the character's family. An upcoming film about the gay Welsh rugby player Gareth Thomas will star actor Mickey Rourke as the player; the role will involve Rourke adapting a Welsh accent.\n\nDuring the silent film era in the United States, Russian-born actors like Alla Nazimova were able to perform in roles even if they had Russian accents or could not speak English. With advent of sound film, Nazimova and other actors were not able to transition to speaking performances. In 1932, Hollywood released \"Rasputin and the Empress\", a film about Imperial Russia, though the film featured no Russian actors, and the cast did not attempt to use Russian accents. The 1933 film \"Crime and Punishment\", based on the Russian novel of the same name, did not depict any characters with Russian accents. In 1971, \"Nicholas and Alexandra\" was released in 1971 with no significant Russian actors and no Russian accents depicted. However, actor Akim Tamiroff, despite a thick Russian accent, was actively in film from the 1930s to the 1970s and featured prominently as a sidekick in films like \"Touch of Evil\" (1958). Maria Ouspenskaya, active from 1915 through 1949, was also known for her \"unusual accent\" and was often cast in \"grandmotherly\" roles.\n\nRonald Bergan, writing in \"The Guardian\", said in 2010 that South African accents were \"notoriously difficult\" for actors to speak. Bergan said actor Marlon Brando, who attempted foreign accents, was not able to convey a South African one in \"A Dry White Season\" (1989). Bergan also called \"worthy but inconsistent efforts\" the performances of Denzel Washington and Kevin Kline in \"Cry Freedom\" (1987) and that of Leonardo DiCaprio in \"Blood Diamond\" (2006). Of the 2009 film \"Invictus\", Bergan said of Morgan Freeman's and Matt Damon's performances, \"For most audiences... who don't have an ear especially attuned to the nuances of South African accents, Freeman and Damon will sound authentic enough.\"\n\nLawrence Christon, writing in \"Variety\" in 2007, said in U.S. film in the first half of the twentieth century, \"actors spoke in a kind of neutralized Midwestern dialect,\" with actors like Gary Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck having distinct qualities. Actor John Wayne conveyed a similar dialect even as the Mongol ruler Genghis Khan in the 1956 film \"The Conqueror\" with little objection. The French New Wave in the 1950s and the 1960s imported films, including \"La dolce vita\", \"The 400 Blows\", \"Hiroshima mon amour\", and exposed U.S. film audiences to new accents. The \"Los Angeles Times\" said in 2000, \"Once upon a time, what characters said in a film was more important than how they said it. For years, Hollywood played fast and loose with foreign accents, generally relying on a stable of European character actors to provide international flavor, with the overall attitude being something along the lines of 'one accent fits all.'\" The newspaper said many credited Meryl Streep \"for raising the accent bar\" with her portrayal of a Polish woman in the 1982 film \"Sophie's Choice\". Streep subsequently performed with other accents and became the standard against which other actors' accented performances were compared. The \"Los Angeles Times\" said in 2002 that female actors, including Streep and Gwyneth Paltrow, had more success in accented performances than male actors.\n"}
{"id": "3899561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3899561", "title": "Escape from Alcatraz (triathlon)", "text": "Escape from Alcatraz (triathlon)\n\nEscape from Alcatraz is the name for two different triathlons held in the San Francisco Bay Area of California. The Escape from Alcatraz originated in 1981 as a private club event, beginning in San Francisco and ending in Marin County. The race split in 1983 with a separate commercial event open to the public, which is now an aquathlon (having dropped the biking section of a traditional triathlon) held on a shorter course entirely within San Francisco. However, a new public triathlon, also known by the name Escape from Alcatraz, is now run by IMG.\n\nThe first Escape from Alcatraz was proposed by Joe Oakes after he participated in the 1979 Ironman Triathlon in Hawaii. The first Escape from Alcatraz race was held two years later in June 1981, with members of the Dolphin Club testing the course. The course started with a swim from Alcatraz Island in the middle of San Francisco Bay to the city of San Francisco, a bike ride over the Golden Gate Bridge to Mill Valley in Marin County, and an out-and-back running course over Mount Tamalpais to Stinson Beach and back. The running course followed the course of the Dipsea foot race, but by making it an out-and-back run rather than a one-way course, became known as a \"Double Dipsea\". \nThe course has remained the same over the years and celebrated its 35th anniversary in 2015. Participants are limited to members of the Dolphin Club and The South End Club. The Dolphin Club is the host and sponsor of the event.\n\nThe annual public Escape from Alcatraz triathlon, organized by IMG, now takes place in early June. The current course consists of a swim starting near Alcatraz Island, a run from the bay to the transition zone at Marina Green, an bike ride, and an run. The run portion includes a notorious section called the \"sand ladder\" at mile five, a climb from Baker Beach back up to the road that is a combination of sand and about 400 uneven log steps. The event had about 1700 participants in 2009. Entry is by Lottery process for most of the slots and the remainder is through qualification, which done through a good rank in the previous Escape from Alcatraz, or in four other triathlon races held during the preceding year.\n\nThe Escape from Alcatraz triathlon was ranked as the number-one triathlon by \"Inside Triathlon Magazine\" for 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "54537199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54537199", "title": "Genius (website)", "text": "Genius (website)\n\nGenius (formerly Rap Genius) is an American digital media company. Originally founded in August 2009 by Tom Lehman, Ilan Zechory, and Mahbod Moghadam, the site allows users to provide annotations and interpretation of song lyrics, news stories, sources, poetry, and documents.\n\nOriginally launched as Rap Genius with a focus on hip-hop music, the company attracted the attention and support of celebrities, and venture capital enabling further growth. The site expanded in 2014 to cover other forms of media, such as pop, literature, R&B, and added an annotation-embedded platform. That same year, an iPhone app was released. To reflect these new goals, the site re-launched as Genius in July 2014. An Android version was released in August 2015, and in 2016 and 2017, the company began producing music-focused original video content and hosting live events and concerts.\n\nGenius first started as a crowdsourced hip-hop focused site, and was originally named Rap Exegesis. The site changed its name in December 2009 to Rap Genius because \"exegesis\" was difficult for users to spell. It was created in August 2009 by founders Tom Lehman (who \"entered the first line of code\" for the website on August 19, 2009), Ilan Zechory, and Mahbod Moghadam, the three of whom met during their undergraduate years at Yale University. Lehman and Moghadam came up with the idea for the site in the summer of 2009 when Lehman asked Moghadam about the meaning of a Cam'ron lyric. After Lehman built the earliest version of the site, he—along with cofounders Moghadam and Zechory—decided to leave their jobs at D.E. Shaw and Google to pursue the idea full-time and bring it to fruition.\n\nIn 2011, with the site \"drawing over 1 million unique visitors per month\", Rap Genius applied to start-up incubator Y Combinator, and \"became the fastest-growing start-up in Y Combinator history\", obtaining $1.8 million in seed funding, which enabled the founders to occupy offices on Williamsburg, Brooklyn. In 2012, the company received an additional $15 million investment from Silicon Valley–based venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz (also known as a16z), prompted in part by partner Marc Andreessen's own past effort to build a group annotation feature into a web browser. Ben Horowitz described Genius as \"one of the most important things we've ever funded\". The company's three co-founders were named to the Forbes 30 Under 30 in December 2012.\n\nThe popular success of the venture was exemplified by the participation of artists like Queensbridge rapper Nas, 50 Cent, RZA, and A$AP Rocky, prompting the company to create a \"Verified Artists\" designation. Verified accounts are offered to established artists, where they annotate, moderate and edit their own lyrics. Such annotations are highlighted in green, rather than the usual grey. Nas became the first verified artist, using the platform to post numerous explanations of his lyrics and dispel some misinterpretations, as well as to comment on the lyrics of other rappers he admires. As part of his support for the website, Nas \"released the lyrics to his new single 'The Don' on Rap Genius the day before putting out the song itself\".\n\nMasta Killa, Inspectah Deck, RZA, GZA, Ghostface Killah and Raekwon, members of the American hip-hop group Wu-Tang Clan, also obtained verified accounts on Genius. In late 2012, novelist Bacchus Paine became the first current release prose author to voluntarily annotate part of her own work.\n\nIn an effort to extend the concept into other genres of culture, Genius launched several new channels in 2013 including News Genius, Rock Genius, and Poetry Genius. The service also added the ability for outside publishers to integrate Rap Genius's platform into other websites to create annotated articles. However, the company also experienced some issues familiar to the online content field.\n\nIn October 2013, Rap Genius was one of fifty sites targeted with notices by the National Music Publishers Association for the unlicensed online publication of song lyrics. Unlike Genius, most of the sites that were targeted were ad-supported. In response, Zechory stated that they \"can't wait to have a conversation with them about how all writers can participate in and benefit from the Rap Genius knowledge project\". In 2014, Rap Genius entered into a licensing agreement with music publishers covering both past and future publishing of music lyrics.\n\nIn December 2013, Google penalized Rap Genius for violating their backlinks guidelines, in particular participating in blog networks, by removing them from its top search results. Even for the search query of \"rap genius\", results from rapgenius.com did not appear on the top results. Instead, the top results showed Rap Genius' Twitter, Facebook, and Wikipedia pages, as well as news related to the penalty. This happened after blogger and Rap Genius contributor John Marbach exposed its link scheme to manipulate Google search results by offering Tweets or Facebook shares in exchange for linking to Rap Genius with keyword rich texts. Rap Genius posted an apology, promising to stop and reverse the practice. Rap Genius also pointed out that its competitors were doing similar or worse practices, and asked Google to look at \"the whole lyrics search landscape\" and improve its lyric search results.\n\nTen days later, after removing links in violation of Google's Quality Guidelines, Rap Genius partially recovered from their penalty.\n\n\"Fast Company\" named Rap Genius co-founder Mahbod Moghadam to its list of Most Creative People of 2013 in May of that year. By early 2014, however, Moghadam had reduced his involvement in Genius to a part-time role, due to complications from his surgery for meningioma, a benign brain tumor. In May 2014, Moghadam resigned after annotating the manifesto of Isla Vista spree killer Elliot Rodger in ways that were labeled as being insensitive.\n\nThe company rebounded with the release of an iOS app on January 28, 2014, also called \"Genius\". Genius co-founder Tom Lehman said at launch: \"This is the true launch of Rap Genius. Right now, more than half of our traffic comes from mobile devices. Soon, it will be 100%\".\n\nIn March 2014, Genius launched a feature allowing users to \"embed\" annotated texts on other websites. Felix Salmon of Reuters was a noted early user, using the platform to create an annotated breakdown of Janet Yellen's first FOMC statement. Nas embedded the entire annotated \"Illmatic\" album onto his website to promote the release of \"Illmatic XX\".\n\nOn 12 July 2014, reflecting its recent expansions and growth into a platform, Rap Genius re-launched as Genius. The co-founders said that the change was because most internet users fail to \"dive into\" stories they find in greater detail, and that Genius aimed to \"help us all realize the richness and depth in every line of text\". The company also raised an additional $40 million in series B funding led by investor Dan Gilbert, chairman of Quicken Loans and owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers. With its operations expanding, Genius relocated from Williamsburg, Brooklyn to Gowanus, Brooklyn. Genius also obtained buy-in from artists, including investments by Eminem, Nas, and Pharrell Williams.\n\nAt one point, rapper Kanye West, a fan of the site, submitted a mock up of a redesign to investor Ben Horowitz. The redesign was not used although Lehman was impressed, telling \"Business Insider\" that future redesigns could use elements from it. In mid-2015, along with its redesigned logo and webpage, Genius released its Android app, which initially allowed users to search for and vote on annotations.\n\nHip-hop journalist Rob Markman was hired by Genius as its manager of artist relations. In September 2015, Genius partnered with \"The Washington Post\" to annotate the various presidential debates being held at that time. The following month, Genius announced the hiring of Brendan Frederick, formerly of \"Complex\", as director of content.\n\nIn 2015, Rick Rubin, A-Trak, The-Dream and Eminem were among those who created verified accounts. Pulitzer Prize winning author Michael Chabon has also been verified and has contributed several annotations. Composer and Lyricist Lin-Manuel Miranda also has a verified account with which he frequently joins discussions on the lyrics of his two musicals, \"In the Heights\" and \"Hamilton\".\n\nIn January 2016, the White House began using Genius to provide annotations for its online postings of President Barack Obama's State of the Union addresses.\n\nGenius began offering original content in 2016, beginning with a \"Behind the Lyrics\" integration offered in collaboration with Spotify that \"pairs pop-up annotations with select tracks from the streaming service as well as exclusive artist content\", launching with content from Pusha T, Tinashe, and Diplo. Initially available only on iOS, \"Behind the Lyrics\" became available on Android in April 2017.\n\nGenius began planning for the creation of original video content, and in June 2016 announced the hiring of Regina Dellea, previously of \"Mic\", as head of video. Planned shows that Dellea was hired to oversee included \"Genius Level, an Inside the Actors Studio-style interview series hosted by Rob Markman\". In 2016, Genius launched the video series \"Verified\", \"featuring artists like Mac Miller, Ice Cube, and Common decoding their songs on camera\", and has since launched various other series, including \"Deconstructed (in which producers dissect the tracks they created) and \"IRL\", a career-spanning interview series initiated with DJ Khaled as the first subject. In September 2016, Genius announced the addition of Steve Stoute, founder and CEO of the brand development and marketing firm Translation, to its board of directors. In 2017, Genius collaborated with Logic to produce an episode of \"Verified\" for every song on his album. Logic had previously name-dropped Genius in his song \"Slave II\", from the 2016 album \"Bobby Tarantino\", with the line \"I'm a Rap Genius like Rob Markman\".\n\nGenius began hosting live events at their Brooklyn headquarters in 2017. On April 26, 2017, Genius hosted a listening party with rapper Wale for the release of Wale's album, \"SHiNE\". The first Genius Level live interview was in May 2017, with The-Dream. On September 7, 2017, Rob Markman interviewed Issa Rae before a live audience. Genius held its first live concert event on September 9, 2017, with the IQ/BBQ festival at the Genius headquarters. The event featured performances by artists including Pusha T, Dej Loaf, A Boogie wit da Hoodie, and was produced in partnership with Adidas and Atari.\n\nGenius began selling branded merchandise in mid-2016, and engaged in \"a t-shirt collaboration with rapper Pusha T's Play Cloths line for Art Basel\" in December 2016. In 2017, Genius expanded its merchandise offerings with the launch of its \"1997\" collection, with a set of styles and themes inspired by cultural events of 1997.\n\nWorks and articles on Genius are presented with various lines highlighted in grey; by clicking on these lines, pop-up annotations are displayed which provide additional details and context for the section in question. Users can provide their own annotations by highlighting fragments of text. Texts on Genius are sorted into various topic channels, including rap, rock, and pop music, literature, news, historical texts (History Genius), sports, television and film (Screen Genius), and \"X\"—any other subject not covered by other categories. The site also offers the \"Rap Map\", a Google Maps display featuring profiles and placemarks for geographical locations related to rap culture or mentioned in rap songs.\n\nRegistered users can upload, correct, and annotate texts. They can also offer suggestions to improve already published texts and annotations. Editors and Moderators help to generate and monitor content to ensure quality writing. Users earn \"IQ\" with every published annotation. Points are rewarded on the basis of not only the quantity of text that is annotated, but also the quality of the annotations. Users are rewarded with greater editorial and moderating privileges as more IQ points are awarded.\n\nContributors to Genius receive points, \"IQ\", for annotations and suggestions on each channel. The IQ system employs both direct points, for example a 10 IQ point increase for an annotation, and a voting system. Especially insightful and popular annotations gain positive reviews, increasing the IQ value of an annotation. As of now, IQ has no redemption purpose, but serves as measure of a contributor's impact and work on the site. Editors and Moderators gain additional means of obtaining IQ, including publishing completed texts and reviewing the work of others.\n\nSpotify includes the ability to display lyrics from Genius for some of its tracks, allowing users to \"watch annotated lyrics for songs as you listen to them\". Bringing up the album art while playing a track reveals a black tab behind the art that says \"Behind the Lyrics\", which gives users access to the feature.\n\n, key staff members and contributors to Genius include founders Tom Lehman and Ilan Zechory; additional board members Ben Horowitz, Dan Gilbert, and Steve Stoute; chief content officer Brendan Frederick; and Head of Artist Relations Rob Markman.\n\nTop artists contributing to Genius include Lorde, Frank Ocean, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Selena Gomez, Phoebe Ryan, DJ Khaled, Nas, Eminem, Rivers Cuomo, and Rick Rubin.\n"}
{"id": "1143133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1143133", "title": "George Bradshaw", "text": "George Bradshaw\n\nGeorge Bradshaw (29 July 1800 – 6 September 1853) was an English cartographer, printer and publisher. He developed Bradshaw's Guide, a widely sold series of combined railway guides and timetables.\n\nBradshaw was born at Windsor Bridge, Pendleton, in Salford, Lancashire. On leaving school he was apprenticed to an engraver named Beale in Manchester, and in 1820 he set up his own engraving business in Belfast, returning to Manchester in 1822 to set up as an engraver and printer, principally of maps. \n\nHe was a religious man. Although his parents were not exceptionally wealthy, when he was young they enabled him to take lessons from a minister devoted to the teachings of Emanuel Swedenborg. He joined the Society of Friends (the Quakers) and gave a considerable part of his time to philanthropic work. He worked a great deal with radical reformers such as Richard Cobden in organising peace conferences and in setting up schools and soup kitchens for the poor of Manchester. \n\nIt is his belief as a Quaker that is quoted as causing the early editions of Bradshaw's guides to have avoided using the names of months based upon Roman deities which was seen as \"pagan\" usage. Quaker usage was, and sometimes still is, \"First month\" for January, \"Second month\" for February and so on. Days of the week were \"First day\" for Sunday and so on.\n\nIn 1841, he founded a high-quality weekly magazine, edited by George Falkner, called \"Bradshaw's Manchester Journal\", described as \"a 16-page miscellany of art, science and literature, to sell at the cheap price of a penny-halfpenny a week. ... After the first six months, it was renamed \"Bradshaw’s Journal: A Miscellany of Literature, Science and Art\", and the place of publication moved to London, where the title was taken on by William Strange\", but the journal survived only until 1843.\n\nHe married on 15 May 1839. While touring Norway in 1853 he contracted cholera and died in September of that year without being able to return to England. He is interred in the Gamlebyen cemetery about a mile from the cathedral in Oslo. His gravestone is on the left by the gate near Oslo hospital.\n\nBradshaw's was a series of railway timetables and travel guide books published by W.J. Adams of London. George Bradshaw initiated the series in 1839. The \"Bradshaw's\" range of titles continued after his death in 1853 until 1961.\n\nFormer British politician Michael Portillo used a copy of what was described as a Bradshaw's guide (the 1863 edition of \"Bradshaw's Descriptive Railway Hand-Book of Great Britain and Ireland\") for \"Great British Railway Journeys\", a BBC Two television series in which he travelled across Britain, visiting recommended points of interest noted in Bradshaw's guide book, and where possible staying in recommended hotels.\n\nThe first series was broadcast in early 2010, a second in early 2011, a third in early 2012, and a fourth in early 2013; series 5 was broadcast in January and February 2014. The success of the series sparked a new interest in the guides and facsimile copies of the 1863 edition became an unexpected best seller in the UK in 2011.\n\nAt the end of 2012, a new series, \"Great Continental Railway Journeys\", was broadcast with Portillo using the 1913 edition of \"Bradshaw's Continental Railway Guide\" to make journeys through various European countries and territories, prompting two publishers to produce facsimiles of the handbook. A second series was broadcast in 2013.\n\n\n\n\nPlace of publication is London, unless otherwise specified.\n\n\nThe importance of advertisements in the \"Bradshaw Guides\" should be stressed. They are an invaluable source of information on all trades of the time, not unlike John Murray's Handbooks, but on a much larger scale (hundreds of pages in a single volume).\n\n"}
{"id": "34502760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34502760", "title": "Hendrik Jacobus Scholten", "text": "Hendrik Jacobus Scholten\n\nHendrik Jacobus Scholten (1824 in Amsterdam – 1907 in Heemstede), was a 19th-century painter from the Netherlands.\n\nAccording to the RKD he was a pupil of Petrus Franciscus Greive and Lambertus Johannes Hansen. In 1852 he became a member of the Royal Academy of Art in Amsterdam, and was a member of the Amsterdam art societies Arti et Amicitiae, Kunstbevorderend Genootschap V.W., and Vereeniging Sint Lucas. He was also a member of art societies in other towns, such as the Pulchri studio in the Hague, the Schilder- en teekengenootschap Kunstliefde in Utrecht, and Kunst zij ons doel in Haarlem. He became art conservator of the Teylers Stichting in 1872, which manages the art collection of the Teylers Museum. In that capacity he wrote a catalog of the museum's collection, that was published in 1904.\n\nHe painted several paintings that hang in the museum's galleries, as well as decorations in the Teyler's fundatiehuis, where he lived and worked from 1863 until his death.\n\nHe is known for various drawings, illustrations and paintings, including landscapes, flower and pastoral scenes, and was a follower of Pieter de Hooch in his interior scenes. He contributed illustrations for the Dutch history book \"De voornaamste geschiedenissen van Noord-Nederland\" by Jacob van Lennep. Works by him hang in the Rijksmuseum and the Amsterdam Museum. He became the teacher of Jacobus van Looy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1871172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1871172", "title": "Hereford Mappa Mundi", "text": "Hereford Mappa Mundi\n\nThe Hereford Mappa Mundi is a medieval map of the known world (mappa mundi in Latin), of a form deriving from the T and O pattern, dating from c. 1300. It is displayed at Hereford Cathedral in Hereford, England. It is the largest medieval map still known to exist.\n\nThe Hereford Mappa Mundi hung, with little regard, for many years on a wall of a choir aisle in the cathedral. During the troubled times of the Commonwealth the map had been laid beneath the floor of Bishop Audley's Chantry, where it remained secreted for some time. In 1855 it was cleaned and repaired at the British Museum. During the Second World War, for safety reasons, the mappa mundi and other valuable manuscripts from Hereford Cathedral Library were kept elsewhere and returned to the collection in 1946.\n\nIn 1988, a financial crisis in the Diocese of Hereford caused the Dean and Chapter to propose selling the mappa mundi. After much controversy, large donations from the National Heritage Memorial Fund, Paul Getty and members of the public kept the map in Hereford and allowed the construction of a new library to house the map and the chained libraries from the Cathedral and All Saints' Church. The new Library Building in the south east corner of the cathedral close opened in 1996. An open-access high-resolution digital image of the map with more than 1,000 place and name annotations is included among the thirteen medieval maps of the world edited in the Virtual Mappa project.\n\nDrawn on a single sheet of vellum, it measures 158 cm by 133 cm, some in diameter and is the largest medieval map known still to exist. The writing is in black ink, with additional red and gold, and blue or green for water (with the Red Sea (8) coloured red). It depicts 420 towns, 15 Biblical events, 33 animals and plants, 32 people, and five scenes from classical mythology.\n\nJerusalem is drawn at the centre of the circle; east is on top, showing the Garden of Eden in a circle at the edge of the world (1). Great Britain is drawn at the northwestern border (bottom left, 22 & 23). Curiously, the labels for Africa and Europe are reversed, with Europe scribed in red and gold as \"Africa\", and vice versa.\n\nThe map is based on traditional accounts and earlier maps such as the one of the Beatus of Liébana codex, and is very similar to the Ebstorf map, the Psalter world map, and the \"Sawley\" (erroneously for considerable time called \"Henry of Mainz\") map; it does not correspond to the geographical knowledge of the 14th century. Note, for example, that the Caspian Sea (5) connects to the encircling ocean (upper left). This is in spite of William of Rubruk's having reported it to be landlocked in 1255, i.e. several decades before the map's creation; see also Portolan chart.\n\nThe \"T and O\" shape does not imply that its creators believed in a flat Earth. The spherical shape of the Earth was already known to the ancient Greeks and Romans and the idea was never entirely forgotten even in the Middle Ages, and thus the circular representation may well be considered a conventional attempt at a projection: in spite of the acceptance of a spherical Earth, only the known parts of the Northern Hemisphere were believed to be inhabitable by human beings (see antipodes), so that the circular representation remained adequate. The long river on the far right is the River Nile, too (12), and the T shape is established by the Mediterranean Sea (19-21-25) and the rivers Don (13) and Nile (16). It is the first map to mention the Faroe Islands.\n\nThe map is signed by or attributed to one \"Richard of Haldingham and Lafford\", also known as Richard de Bello, \"prebend of Lafford in Lincoln Cathedral\". However, this attribution isn't completely agreed upon, it being suggested that the exquisite level of detail included in the map could not have been completed by one person. Some people believe that the map was originally created by Richard of Haldingham and Lafford and that at his death it passed to his younger cousin, Richard de Bello. Once it was in de Bello's possession, de Bello and his patron Richard Swindfield worked on the map.\n\nIt was for long believed the map was not created in Hereford. It was believed to have been made in Lincoln, since the city of Lincoln is drawn in considerable detail, being represented by a cathedral located on a hill near a river. Hereford, on the other hand, is represented only by a cathedral and seems an afterthought, drawn by a different hand than many of the other things on the map. However, more recent research, including the origin of wood used for the frame which corresponds with a compass hole in the map, suggests it may have in fact been created in or around Hereford.\n\n0 – At the centre of the map: Jerusalem, above it: the crucifix.\n1 – Paradise, surrounded by a wall and a ring of fire. During World War II this was printed in Japanese textbooks since Paradise appears to be roughly in the location of Japan.\n2 – The Ganges and its delta.\n3 – The fabulous island of Taphana, sometimes interpreted as Sri Lanka or Sumatra.\n4 – Rivers Indus and Tigris.\n5 – The Caspian Sea, and the land of Gog and Magog \n6 – Babylon and the Euphrates. \n7 – The Persian Gulf. \n8 – The Red Sea (painted in red). \n9 – Noah's Ark. \n10 – The Dead Sea, Sodom and Gomorrah, with the River Jordan, coming from the Sea of Galilee; above: Lot's wife. \n11 – Egypt with the River Nile. \n12 – The River Nile (?), or possibly an allusion to the equatorial ocean; far outside: a land of the monstrous races, possibly the Antipodes. \n13 – The Azov Sea with rivers Don and Dnieper; above: the Golden Fleece. \n14 – Constantinople; left of it the Danube's delta. \n15 – The Aegean Sea. \n16 – Oversized delta of the Nile with Alexandria's Pharos lighthouse. \n17 – The legendary Norwegian Gansmir, with his skis and ski pole. \n18 – Greece with Mt. Olympus, Athens and Corinth \n19 – Misplaced Crete with the Minotaur's circular labyrinth. \n20 – The Adriatic Sea; Italy with Rome, honoured by a popular Latin hexameter; \"Roma caput mundi tenet orbis frena rotundi\" (\"Rome, the head, holds the reins of the round world\"). \n21 – Sicily and Carthage, opposing Rome, right of it. \n22 – Scotland. \n23 – England. \n24 – Ireland. \n25 – The Balearic Islands. \n26 – The Strait of Gibraltar (the Pillars of Hercules).\n\nThe map is prominently featured in the 2007 novel \"Resistance\" by Owen Sheers.\n\n\nA series of close-up photographs of the entire map, along with annotated transcriptions and English translations of all the text thereon, have been published in Scott D. Westrem, \"The Hereford Map\", Terrarum Orbis 1 (Turnhout: Brepols, 2001) .\n\nAn extensive early study was undertaken by W. L. Bevan and H. W. Phillott: \"Medieval Geography: An Essay in Illustration of the Hereford Mappa Mundi\" (London: Stanford, 1873). online\n\nSee also Debra Higgs Strickland, \"Edward I, Exodus, and England on the Hereford World Map\", \"Speculum\" 93.2 (2018): 420-69.\n\n"}
{"id": "28868152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28868152", "title": "Jacobi operator", "text": "Jacobi operator\n\nA Jacobi operator, also known as Jacobi matrix, is a symmetric linear operator acting on sequences which is given by an infinite tridiagonal matrix. It is commonly used to specify systems of orthonormal polynomials over a finite, positive Borel measure. This operator is named after Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi.\n\nThe name derives from a theorem from Jacobi, dating to 1848, stating that every symmetric matrix over a principal ideal domain is congruent to a tridiagonal matrix.\n\nThe most important case is the one of self-adjoint Jacobi operators acting on the Hilbert space of square summable sequences over the positive integers formula_1. In this case it is given by\n\nwhere the coefficients are assumed to satisfy\n\nThe operator will be bounded if and only if the coefficients are.\n\nThere are close connections with the theory of orthogonal polynomials. In fact, the solution formula_4 of the recurrence relation\n\nis a polynomial of degree \"n\" and these polynomials are orthonormal with respect to the spectral measure corresponding to the first basis vector formula_6.\n\nThis recurrence relation is also commonly written as\n\nIt arises in many areas of mathematics and physics. The case \"a\"(\"n\") = 1 is known as the discrete one-dimensional Schrödinger operator. It also arises in:\n\n\nWhen one considers Bergman space, namely the space of square-integrable holomorphic functions over some domain, then, under general circumstances, one can give that space a basis of orthogonal polynomials, the Bergman polynomials. In this case, the analog of the tridiagonal Jacobi operator is a Hessenberg operator – an infinite-dimensional Hessenberg matrix. The system of orthogonal polynomials is given by\n\nand formula_9. Here, \"D\" is the Hessenberg operator that generalizes the tridiagonal Jacobi operator \"J\" for this situation. Note that \"D\" is the right-shift operator on the Bergman space: that is, it is given by\n\nThe zeros of the Bergman polynomial formula_11 correspond to the eigenvalues of the principle formula_12 submatrix of \"D\". That is, The Bergman polynomials are the characteristic polynomials for the principle submatrixes of the shift operator.\n"}
{"id": "41339734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41339734", "title": "Joseph Whiting Stock", "text": "Joseph Whiting Stock\n\nJoseph Whiting Stock (January 30, 1815 – 1855) was an American painter known for his portraits, miniatures, and landscape paintings, many of which he did on commission. He was born on January 30, 1815 in Springfield, Massachusetts.\n\nWhen Stock was eleven years old, an oxcart fell on him and he was paraplegic for the rest of his life. After this accident, he began to study painting under Franklin White, a pupil of the painter Chester Harding, on the advice of his physician, and was commissioned to do a series of anatomical drawings by Dr. James Swan in 1834. That year, Dr. Swan constructed a wheelchair which enabled Stock to paint large canvasses and be lifted on trains so as to travel for commissions. For the next two decades Stock accepted commissions for portraits around New England, working in Warren and Bristol, Rhode Island, New Bedford, Massachusetts, and Middletown, Goshen, and Port Jervis, New York. His studios were located in his hometown of Springfield throughout this time.\n\nIn 1855, Stock died of tuberculosis in Springfield. He was forty years old.\n\nStock's paintings are sometimes confused with those of Clarissa Peters Russell, the miniaturist, as her style is similar to his but her work tends to be unsigned.\n\n"}
{"id": "25956476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25956476", "title": "Kes? Mis? Kus?", "text": "Kes? Mis? Kus?\n\nKes? Mis? Kus? () is a series of annual yearbooks published in Estonia reflecting the events in the world and in Estonia from September to October (except the 2001 yearbook, which began in January 2000). The editor is Enno Tammer. \n\n"}
{"id": "5595672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5595672", "title": "Laurentian Codex", "text": "Laurentian Codex\n\nLaurentian Codex or Laurentian Chronicle () is a collection of chronicles that includes the oldest extant version of the \"Primary Chronicle\" and its continuations, mostly relating the events in Northern Russia (Vladimir-Suzdal).\n\nThe codex was not just copied by the Nizhegorod monk Laurentius commissioned by Dionysius of Suzdil in 1377. The original text on events from 1284 to 1305 was a lost codex compiled for the Grand Duke Mikhail of Tver in 1305, but Laurentius re-edited the presentation of Yuri Vsevolodovich, the founder of Nizhny Novgorod, from positive into a negative, partly rehabilitating the role of Tatars. Vasily Komarovich studied traces of changes within the manuscript and established a hypothesis about differences between Laurentius' version and the lost one of the Tver chronicle.\n\nThe Laurentian Codex compiled several codices of the Vladimir chronicles. It is the second edition of Nestor's chronicle, which had been already revised in 1116 by Sylvester, Hegumen of the St. Michael Monastery in the village of Vydubychi, under the reign of Prince Vladimir Monomakh, and it is the oldest version known today. The codex is a unique source for the autobiographical chronicle called “Instruction of Vladimir Monomakh”.\n\nThe first part until folio 40 verso was written by an unknown scribe commissioned by Andrew Bogolyubsky. In 1177 it was completed after the assassination of the prince. The second chronicle about Vsevolod the Big Nest continued up to 1193. The third which did glorify Vsevolod, was composed in 1212 by his son Yuri Vsevolodovich. The Vladimir Chronicles borrowed from sources of the Southern Rus', especially from Pereyaslavl Yuzhniy, since Vladimir princes regarded the city as part of their patrimony.\n\nThe compilation referred to various periods until 1305, but the years 898–922, 1263–83 and 1288–94 had been omitted for reasons of censorship, and quite likely under supervision of Dionysios, Metropolitan of Kiev. The revision was done under great rush and another hand in the manuscript proves, that Laurentius' work was assisted by a second scribe whose hand can be found on the later added folios 157, 167, and on the verso side of folio 161.\n\nThe manuscript was acquired by the famous Count Musin-Pushkin in 1792 and subsequently presented to the Russian National Library in St Petersburg (Ms. F.п.IV.2).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1169189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1169189", "title": "Leodegrance", "text": "Leodegrance\n\nKing Leodegrance , sometimes Leondegrance, Leodogran, or variations thereof, is the father of Queen Guinevere in Arthurian legend. His kingdom of Cameliard (or Carmelide) is usually identified with Cornwall but may be located in Breton Cornouaille near the town of Carhaix, which is the Carhaise of \"L'Histoire de Merlin\" (13th century). \n\nLeodegrance had served Uther Pendragon, King Arthur's biological father and regnal predecessor. Leodegrance was entrusted with the keeping of the Round Table at Uther's death. When Guinevere marries Arthur, Leodegrance gives the young king the table as a wedding present. In later romance Leodegrance is one of the few kings who accept Arthur as his overlord. For this, his land is invaded by the rebel King Rience, but Arthur comes to his rescue and expels the enemy. Arthur meets Guinevere for the first time during this excursion, and they develop a love that eventually results in their fateful marriage. \n\nAccording to the Lancelot–Grail Cycle, Leodegrance fathered a second daughter out of wedlock; he also names this child Guinevere. The \"False Guinevere\" later treacherously convinces Arthur's court that she is his real wife and her sister is an impostor, forcing the real queen and her lover Lancelot into hiding with their friend Galehaut. Guinevere eventually returns and reclaims her throne.\n\nIn Welsh mythology the father of \"Gwenhwyfar\" (Guinevere) is the giant Ogyruan/Ogyrvan or Gogyrfan, who is mentioned in a number of Middle Welsh texts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2922635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2922635", "title": "List of country names in various languages (Q–Z)", "text": "List of country names in various languages (Q–Z)\n\nMost countries of the world have different names in different languages. Some countries have also undergone name changes for political or other reasons. This article attempts to give all known alternative names for all nations, countries and sovereign states. It does not offer any opinion about what the \"original\", \"real\", or \"correct\" name of any country is or was.\n\nCountries are listed alphabetically by their current best-known name in English. Each English name is followed by its currently best-known equivalents in other languages, listed in English alphabetical order (ignoring accents) by name and by language. Historical and/or alternative versions, where included, are noted as such. Foreign names that are the same as their English equivalents are listed, to provide an answer to the question \"What is that name in...\"?. See also: List of alternative country names\n\nEntries are formatted as follows: languages written in the Latin alphabet use \"Name (language)\" [for example, \"Afeganistão (Portuguese)\"] and are alphabetized in the list according to English rules of alphabetical order. Languages written in other writing systems use \"Romanization - native script (language)\" [for example, \"English - אַרגענטינע (Yiddish)\"] and are alphabetized in the list by the romanized form.\n\nFor reasons of size, this article is broken into four parts:\nTable of contents: Q — R — S — T — U — V — W — Y — Z\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42382654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42382654", "title": "List of password managers", "text": "List of password managers\n\nThe list below includes the names of notable password managers with dedicated Wikipedia articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "5364186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5364186", "title": "MCC Coaching manual", "text": "MCC Coaching manual\n\nThe MCC Coaching Manual is the popular name for \"The MCC Cricket Coaching Book\", a manual of cricket skills produced by the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC). The book outlined the traditional approaches to batting, bowling and fielding. It was first published in 1952, written by Harry Altham, and went through several editions before being superseded by \"\" in 1994. That book is now out of print, and has been replaced in the UK by a range of coaching resources from the ECB.\n\nIn modern cricket, the MCC coaching manual is usually cited idiomatically in reference to orthodox techniques: a well-executed classical batting stroke may be described as \"straight out of the coaching manual\", while unorthodox shots such as the reverse sweep are ones \"you wouldn't find in the MCC coaching manual.\"\n"}
{"id": "12599560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12599560", "title": "Maltese skate", "text": "Maltese skate\n\nThe Maltese skate or Maltese ray (\"Leucoraja melitensis\") is a species of fish in the Rajidae family. It is found in Algeria, Italy, Malta, and Tunisia. Its natural habitat is open seas. It is threatened by habitat loss.\n\nIn 2010, Greenpeace International added the Maltese skate (\"Leucoraja melitensis\") to its seafood red list. \"The Greenpeace International seafood red list is a list of fish that are commonly sold in supermarkets around the world, and which have a very high risk of being sourced from unsustainable fisheries.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3435322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3435322", "title": "NSC 162/2", "text": "NSC 162/2\n\nNSC 162/2 was a policy paper of the United States National Security Council approved by President Dwight D. Eisenhower on 30 October 1953 which defined the Cold War national security policy during the Eisenhower administration. NSC162/2 was based upon NSC162, which was the final synthesis of the task force reports of Project Solarium. On 7 January 1955, NSC162/2 was superseded by NSC5501.\n\nNSC162/2 stated that the United States needs to maintain \"a strong military posture, with emphasis on the capability of inflicting massive retaliatory damage by offensive striking power\", and that, in the event of hostilities, the United States \"will consider nuclear weapons as available for use as other munitions.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36067824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36067824", "title": "Norwegian State Calendar", "text": "Norwegian State Calendar\n\nThe Norwegian State Calendar (\"Norges Statskalender\") was an official publication of the Government of Norway, published annually from 1815 to 2012, and listing the members of the royal house, the government, courts, Parliament, the upper level of the civil service and recipients of state/royal honours. It ceased publication from 1 January 2012, as this information is now found in many other publications.\n"}
{"id": "46456424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46456424", "title": "PastPerfect Museum Software", "text": "PastPerfect Museum Software\n\nPastPerfect Museum Software is an application for collections archiving. It is designed for museums, but may be used by various institutions including libraries, archives, and natural history collections. PastPerfect allows for the database storage of artifacts, documents, photographs, and library books. PastPerfect is utilized by over 9000 museums nationwide.\n\nPastPerfect was introduced in 1998 as the primary product of the then Pastime Software Company Inc. It was released in version 2 later the same year, updated to version three in 2001, and then to version four in 2004. It updated to version five in 2010, which remains the most current edition of the program. Pastime Software Company eventually changed its name to PastPerfect Software Inc. after 2007.\n\nPastPerfect operates with four basic catalogs for sorting collections material. There is the \"archive\" catalog for storing documents, the \"photograph\" catalog for storing photos, tintypes, paintings, etc.; the \"objects\" catalog for storing three-dimensional artifacts, and the \"library\" catalog for storing books that would be included in the institution's library. Images can be uploaded into the catalog, with multiple photos per record. It also stores donor information, and automatically generates Deed of Gift forms and thank you letters upon completing certain steps of the accessioning process. Certain extensions allow for the inclusion of Oral History records and transcripts and there is an additional online function that allows institutions to digitize their collections and make them free to browse on the internet.\n\nPastPerfect also contains a contact list function, for storing donors, members, and employee contact information in a similar catalog format as the rest of the program.\n"}
{"id": "9396111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9396111", "title": "Preservation (library and archival science)", "text": "Preservation (library and archival science)\n\nIn library and archival science, preservation is a set of activities aimed at prolonging the life of a record while making as few changes as possible. Relevant metadata, enhancement of cultural value, and improvement of access are also important aspects of preservation work. Actions taken to influence record creators prior to selection and acquisition must be avoided for proper preservation. Preservation, in this definition, is practiced in a library or an archive by a librarian, archivist, or other professional when they perceive a record is in need of care.\n\nPreservation should be distinguished from conservation-restoration of cultural heritage, which refers to the treatment and repair of individual items to slow the process of decay, or restore them to a usable state. Conservation is occasionally used interchangeably with preservation, particularly outside the professional literature.\n\n\n\nA relatively new concept, digitization, has been hailed as a way to preserve historical items for future use. \"Digitizing refers to the process of converting analog materials into digital form.\"\n\nFor manuscripts, digitization is achieved through scanning an item and saving it to a digital format. For example, the Google Book Search program has partnered with over forty libraries around the world to digitize books. The goal of this library partnership project is to \"make it easier for people to find relevant books – specifically, books they wouldn't find any other way such as those that are out of print – while carefully respecting authors' and publishers' copyrights.\"\n\nAlthough digitization seems to be a promising area for future preservation, there are also problems. The main problems are that digital space costs money, formats change, and backwards compatibility is not guaranteed. Higher-quality images take a longer time to scan, but are often more valuable for future use. Fragile items are often more difficult or more expensive to scan, which creates a selection problem for preservationists. Other problems include scan quality, redundancy of digitized books among different libraries, and copyright law.\n\nHowever, many of these problems are being solved through educational initiatives. Educational programs are tailoring themselves to fit preservation needs and help new students understand preservation practices. Programs teaching graduate students about digital librarianship are especially important.\n\nGroups such as the Digital Preservation Network strive to ensure that \"the complete scholarly record is preserved for future generations\". The Library of Congress maintains a Sustainability of Digital Formats web site that educates institutions on various aspects of preservation: most notably, on approximately 200 digital format types and which are most likely to last into the future.\n\nDigital Preservation is another name for digitization, and is the term more commonly used in archival courses. The main goal of digital preservation is to guarantee that people will have access to the digitally preserved materials long into the future.\n\nWhen practicing preservation one has several factors to consider to properly preserve a record: 1) the environment the record is store in, 2) the criteria to determine when preservation is necessary, 3) what standard practices will be laid down for preservation in an individual institution, 4) research and testing, and 5) vendor services needed for preservation. \n\nEnvironmental controls are necessary to facilitate the preservation of organic materials and are especially important to monitor in rare and special collections. Key environmental factors to watch include temperature, relative humidity, pests, pollutants, and light exposure.\n\nIn general, the lower the temperature is, the better it is for the collection. However, since books and other materials are often housed in areas with people, a compromise must be struck to accommodate human comfort. A reasonable temperature to accomplish both goals is 65-68˚F however, if possible, film and photography collections should be kept in a segregated area at 55˚F.\n\nBooks and other materials take up and give off moisture making them sensitive to relative humidity. Very high humidity encourages mold growth and insect infestations. Low humidity causes materials to lose their flexibility. Fluctuations in relative humidity are more damaging than a constant humidity in the middle or low range. Generally, the relative humidity should be between 30-50% with as little variation as possible, however recommendations on specific levels to maintain vary depending on the type of material, i.e. paper-based, film, etc. A specialized dew point calculator for book preservation is available.\n\nPests, such as insects and vermin, eat and destroy paper and the adhesive that secures book bindings. Food and drink in libraries, archives, and museums can increase the attraction of pests. An Integrated Pest Management system is one way to control pests in libraries.\n\nParticulate and gaseous pollutants, such as soot, ozone, sulfur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, can cause dust, soiling, and irreversible molecular damage to materials. Pollutants are exceedingly small and not easily detectable or removable. A special filtration system in the building's HVAC is a helpful defense.\n\nExposure to light also has a significant effect on materials. It is not only the light visible to humans that can cause damage, but also ultraviolet light and infrared radiation. Measured in lux or the amount of lumens/m, the generally accepted level of illumination with sensitive materials is limited to 50 lux per day. Materials receiving more lux than recommended can be placed in dark storage periodically to prolong the original appearance of the object.\n\nRecent concerns about the impact of climate change on the management of cultural heritage objects as well as the historic environment has prompted research efforts to investigate alternative climate control methods and strategies that include the implementation of alternative climate control systems to replace or supplement traditional high-energy consuming HVAC systems as well as the introduction of passive preservation techniques. Rather than maintaining a flat line, consistent 24/7 condition for a collection's environment, fluctuation can occur within acceptable limits to create a preservation environment while also thinking of energy efficiency and taking advantage of the outside environment.\n\nBound materials are sensitive to rapid temperature or humidity cycling due to differential expansion of the binding and pages, which may cause the binding to crack and/or the pages to warp. Changes in temperature and humidity should be done slowly so as to minimize the difference in expansion rates. However, an accelerated aging study on the effects of fluctuating temperature and humidity on paper color and strength showed no evidence that cycling of one temperature to another or one RH to another caused a different mechanism of decay.\n\nContamination can occur at the time of manufacture, especially with electronic materials. It must be stopped before it spreads, but it is usually irreversible.\n\nMaking a proper decision is an important factor before starting preservation practices. Decision making for preservation should be made considering significance and value of materials. Significance is considered to have two major components: importance and quality. \"Importance\" relates to the collection's role as a record, and \"quality\" covers comprehensiveness, depth, uniqueness, authenticity and reputation of the collection. Moreover, analyzing the significance of materials can be used to uncover more about their meaning. Assessment of significance can also aid in documenting the provenance and context to argue the case for grant funding for the object and collection.\n\nForms of significance can be historically, culturally, socially, or spiritually significant. In the preservation context, libraries and archives make decisions in different ways. In libraries, decision-making likely targets existing holding materials, whereas in archives, decisions for preservation are often made when they acquire materials. Therefore, different criteria might be needed on different occasions. In general, for archive criteria, the points include:\n\n\nFor archival criteria, the following are evidence of significance:\n\n\nSince the 1970s, the Northeast Document Conservation Center has stated that the study of understanding the needs of the archive/library is inherently important to the survival of archives and libraries. In order for the preservation of a collection to survive for a long time it is important that a systematic preservation plan is in place. The first step in planning a preservation program is to assess the institution's existing preservation needs. This process entails identifying the general and specific needs of the collection, establishing priorities, and gathering the resources to execute the plan.\n\nBecause budget and time limitations require priorities to be set, standards have been established by the profession to determine what should be preserved in a collection. Considerations include existing condition, rarity, and evidentiary and market values. With non-paper formats, the availability of equipment to access the information will be a factor (for example, playback equipment for audio-visual materials, or microform readers). An institution should determine how many, if any, other repositories hold the material, and consider coordinating efforts with those that do.\n\nInstitutions should establish an environment conducive to preservation changes, involve staff, and create an understanding among administration and staff. The first steps an institution should implement, according to the NEDCC, are to establish a policy that defines and charts the course of action and create a framework for carrying out goals and priorities.\n\nThere are three methods for carrying out a preservation survey: general preservation assessment, collection condition surveys, and an item-by-item survey. General condition surveys can be part of a library inventory.\n\nSelection for treatment determines the survival of materials and should be done by a specialist, whether in relation to an established collection development policy or on an item by item basis. Once an object or collection has been chosen for preservation, the treatment must be determined that is most appropriate to the material and its repository. If the information is most important, reformatting or creation of a surrogate is a likely option. If the artifact itself is of value, it will receive conservation treatment, ideally of a reversible nature.\n\nWith old media deteriorating or showing their vulnerabilities and new media becoming available, research remains active in the field of conservation and preservation. Everything from how to preserve paper media to creating and maintaining electronic resources and gauging their digital permanence is being explored by students and professionals in archives/libraries. The two main issues that most institutions tend to face are the rapid disintegration of acidic paper and water damage (due to flooding, plumbing problems, etc.). Therefore, these areas of preservation, as well as new digital technologies, receive much of the research attention.\n\nThe American Library Association has many scholarly journals that publish articles on preservation topics, such as \"College and Research Libraries, Information Technology and Libraries,\" and \"Library Resources and Technical Services\". Scholarly periodicals in this field from other publishers include \"International Preservation News, Journal of the American Institute for Conservation\", and \"Collection Management\" among many others.\n\nMany private entities provide preservation and conservation services and supplies. One of the most well known companies in preservation is Hollinger Metal Edge. They sell Hollinger boxes, folders, AV preservation tools, archival paper, exhibit material, and even furniture. Another company that produces many preservation tools is University Products.\n\nLearning the proper methods of preservation is important and most archivists are educated on the subject at academic institutions that specifically cover archives and preservation. In the United States most repositories require archivists to have a degree from an ALA-accredited library school. Similar institutions exist in countries outside the US.\n\nSince 2010, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has enhanced funding for library and archives conservation education in three major conservation programs. These programs are all part of the Association of North American Graduate Programs in the Conservation of Cultural Property (ANAGPIC).\n\nAnother educational resource available to preservationists is the Northeast Document Conservation Center or NEDCC.\n\nThe Preservation, Planning and Publications Committee of the Preservation and Reformatting Section (PARS) in the Association for Library Collections & Technical Services has created a Preservation Education Directory of ALA Accredited schools in the U.S. and Canada offering courses in preservation. The directory is updated approximately every three years. The 10th Edition was made available on the ALCTS web site in March 2015.Additional preservation education is available to librarians through various professional organizations, such as:\n\n\nLimited, tax-driven funding can often interfere with the ability for public libraries to engage in extensive preservation activities. Materials, particularly books, are often much easier to replace than to repair when damaged or worn. Public libraries usually try to tailor their services to meet the needs and desires of their local communities, which could cause an emphasis on acquiring new materials over preserving old ones. Librarians working in public facilities frequently have to make complicated decisions about how to best serve their patrons. Commonly, public library systems work with each other and sometimes with more academic libraries through interlibrary loan programs. By sharing resources, they are able to expand upon what might be available to their own patrons and share the burdens of preservation across a greater array of systems.\n\nArchival facilities focus specifically on rare and fragile materials. With staff trained in appropriate techniques, archives are often available to many public and private library facilities as an alternative to destroying older materials. Items that are unique, such as photographs, or items that are out of print, can be preserved in archival facilities more easily than in many library settings.\n\nBecause so many museum holdings are unique, including print materials, art, and other objects, preservationists are often most active in this setting; however, since most holdings are usually much more fragile, or possibly corrupted, conservation may be more necessary than preservation. This is especially common in art museums. Museums typically hold to the same practices lead by archival institutions.\n\nPreservation as a formal profession in libraries and archives dates from the twentieth century, but its philosophy and practice has roots in many earlier traditions.\n\nIn many ancient societies, appeals to heavenly protectors were used to preserve books, scrolls and manuscripts from insects, fire and decay. \nHuman record-keeping arguably dates back to the cave painting boom of the upper paleolithic, some 32,000-40,000 years ago. More direct antecedents are the writing systems that developed in the 4th millennium B.C. Written record keeping and information sharing practices, along with oral tradition, sustain and transmit information from one group to another. This level of preservation has been supplemented over the last century with the professional practice of preservation and conservation in the cultural heritage community.\n\n\n\n\nThe Paul Banks and Carolyn Harris Preservation Award for outstanding preservation specialists in library and archival science, is given annually by the Association for Library Collections & Technical Services, a subdivision of the American Library Association. It is awarded in recognition of professional preservation specialists who have made significant contributions to the field.\n\nReformatting, or in any other way copying an item's contents, raises obvious copyright issues. In many cases, a library is allowed to make a limited number of copies of an item for preservation purposes. In the United States, certain exceptions have been made for libraries and archives.\n\nEthics will play an important role in many aspects of the conservator's activities. When choosing which objects are in need of treatment, the conservator should do what is best for the object in question and not yield to pressure or opinion from outside sources. Conservators should refer to the AIC Code of Ethics and Guidelines for Practice, which states that the conservation professional must \"strive to attain the highest possible standards in all aspects of conservation.\"\n\nOne instance in which these decisions may get tricky is when the conservator is dealing with cultural objects. The AIC Code of Ethics and Guidelines for Practice has addressed such concerns, stating \"All actions of the conservation professional must be governed by an informed respect for cultural property, its unique character and significance and the people or person who created it.\" This can be applied in both the care and long-term storage of objects in archives and institutions.\n\nIt is important that preservation specialists to be respectful of cultural property and the societies that created it, it is also important for them to be aware of international and national laws pertaining to stolen items. In recent years there has been a rise in nations seeking out artifacts that have been stolen and are now in museums. In many cases museums are working with the nations to find a compromise to balance the need for reliable supervision as well as access for both the public and researchers.\n\nConservators are not just bound by ethics to treat cultural and religious objects with respect, but also in some cases by law. For example, in the United States, conservators must comply with the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA). The First Archivists Circle, a group of Native American archivists, has also created Protocols for Native American Archival Materials. The non-binding guidelines are suggestions for libraries and archives with Native American archival materials.\n\nThe care of cultural and sacred objects often affects the physical storage or the object. For example, sacred objects of the native peoples of the Western United States are supposed to be stored with sage to ensure their spiritual well being. The idea of storing an object with plant material is inherently problematic to an archival collection because of the possibility of insect infestation. When conservators have faced this problem, they have addressed it by using freeze-dried sage, thereby meeting both conservation and cultural needs.\n\nSome individuals in the archival community have explored the possible moral responsibility to preserve all cultural phenomena, in regards to the concept of monumental preservation. Other advocates argue that such an undertaking is something that the indigenous or native communities that produce such cultural objects are better suited to perform. Currently, however, many indigenous communities are not financially able to support their own archives and museums. Still, indigenous archives are on the rise in the United States.\n\nThere is a longstanding tension between preservation of and access to library materials, particularly in the area of special collections. Handling materials promotes their progression to an unusable state, especially if they are handled carelessly. On the other hand, materials must be used in order to gain any benefit from them. In a collection with valuable materials, this conflict is often resolved by a number of measures which can include heightened security, requiring the use of gloves for photographs, restricting the materials researchers may bring with them into a reading room, and restricting use of materials to patrons who are not able to satisfy their research needs with less valuable copies of an item. These restrictions are annoyances to researchers who feel that these measures are in place solely to keep materials out of the hands of the public.\n\nThere is also controversy surrounding preservation methods. A major controversy at the end of the twentieth century centered on the practice of discarding items that had been microfilmed. This was the subject of novelist Nicholson Baker's book \"Double Fold\", which chronicled his efforts to save many old runs of American newspapers (formerly owned by the British Library) from being sold to dealers or pulped. A similar concern persists over the retention of original documents reformatted by any means, analog or digital. Concerns include scholarly needs and legal requirements for authentic or original records as well as questions about the longevity, quality and completeness of reformatted materials. Retention of originals as a source or fail-safe copy is now a fairly common practice. Another controversy revolving around different preservation methods is that of digitization of original material to maintain the intellectual content of the material while ignoring the physical nature of the book. Further, the Modern Language Association's Committee on the Future of the Print Record structured its \"Statement on the Significance of Primary Records\" on the inherent theoretical ideology that there is a need to preserve as many copies of a printed edition as is possible as texts and their textual settings are, quite simply, not separable, just as the artifactual characteristics of texts are as relevant and varied as the texts themselves (in the report mentioned herewith, G. Thomas Tanselle suggests that presently existing book stacks need not be abandoned with emerging technologies; rather they serve as vitally important original (primary) sources for future study).\n\nMany digitized items, such as back issues of periodicals, are provided by publishers and databases on a subscription basis. If these companies were to cease providing access to their digital information, facilities that elected to discard paper copies of these periodicals could face significant difficulties in providing access to these items. Discussion as to the best ways to utilize digital technologies is therefore ongoing, and the practice continues to evolve. Of course, the issues surrounding digital objects and their care in libraries and archives continues to expand as more and more of contemporary culture is created, stored, and used digitally. These born-digital materials raise their own new kinds of preservation challenges and in some cases they may even require use new kinds of tools and techniques.\n\nIn her book \"Sacred Stacks: The Higher Purpose of Libraries and Librarianship\", Nancy Kalikow Maxwell discusses how libraries are capable of performing some of the same functions as religion. Many librarians feel that their work is done for some higher purpose. The same can be said for preservation librarians. One instance of the library's role as sacred is to provide a sense of immortality: with the ever-changing world outside, the library will remain stable and dependable. Preservation is a great help in this regard. Through digitization and reformatting, preservation librarians are able to retain material while at the same time adapting to new methods. In this way, libraries can adapt to the changes in user needs without changing the quality of the material itself. Through preservation efforts, patrons can rest assured that although materials are constantly deteriorating over time, the library itself will remain a stable, reliable environment for their information needs. Another sacred ability of the library is to provide information and a connection to the past. By working to slow down the processes of deterioration and decay of library materials, preservation practices help keep this link to the past alive.\n"}
{"id": "55687664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55687664", "title": "Purushottam Laxman Deshpande bibliography", "text": "Purushottam Laxman Deshpande bibliography\n\nThis is a list of the works by Purushottam Laxman Deshpande (1947–1999)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38076111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38076111", "title": "Robert Barclay (statistician)", "text": "Robert Barclay (statistician)\n\nRobert Steven Barclay FRSE (13 September 1901 – 20 March 1973) was a Scottish statistician, noted as a scholar of Orkney.\n\nBarclay was born at Hurkisgarth, in Sandwick, on the Mainland of Orkney, to Margaret (née Manson) and Charles Noble Barclay. He was educated at Oxtro School, in Birsay, George Heriot's School, in Edinburgh, and the University of Edinburgh (BSc; PhD 1947).\n\nBarclay served as an Ordinary Seaman in the Merchant Service from 1929-33. During World War II he served as Lieutenant in the Royal Naval Reserve.\n\nIn 1949, he married Anne Moodie. In the same year, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, his proposers were of William O Kermack, Alexander Aitken, Frank Fraser Darling, James G Kydd and J B de Winton Moloney. From 1949-69 he was on the staff of Register House, Edinburgh.\n\nBarclay died in Edinburgh on 20 March 1973.\n"}
{"id": "27939556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27939556", "title": "Sleeping Beauty (2011 film)", "text": "Sleeping Beauty (2011 film)\n\nSleeping Beauty is a 2011 Australian erotic drama film that was written and directed by Julia Leigh. It is her debut as a director. The film stars Emily Browning as a young university student. She takes up a part-time high-paying job with a mysterious group that caters to rich men who like the company of nude sleeping young women. Lucy is required to sleep alongside paying customers and be absolutely submissive to their erotic desires, fulfilling their fantasies by voluntarily entering into physical unconsciousness.\n\nThe film is based on influences that include Leigh's own dream experiences, and the novels \"The House of the Sleeping Beauties\" and \"Memories of My Melancholy Whores\" by Nobel laureates Yasunari Kawabata and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, respectively.\n\nThe film premiered in May at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival as the first Competition entry to be screened. It was the first Australian film In Competition at Cannes since \"Moulin Rouge!\" (2001). \"Sleeping Beauty\" was released in Australia on 23 June 2011. It premiered in US cinemas on 2 December 2011 on limited release. Overall critical reception of the film has been mixed, rising to some approval through June 2016, after circulation of the film on the festival circuit; audience reception, on the other hand, has been weak (less than a third of a sample of tens of thousands approving).\n\nLucy (Emily Browning) is a university student who works in an office in the daytime and at a restaurant in the evenings. She is occasionally a research subject at a science laboratory.\n\nLucy is paying tuition and rent by doing several jobs. She is caring for a sick relative, Birdmann (Ewen Leslie) who is very attracted to her. While she does not return his sexual interest, Lucy enjoys Birdmann's company, and in his presence is the only time she is shown smiling or laughing. An old joke between the two is that Birdmann frequently asked Lucy to marry him; Lucy always says no. Due to lack of money and Birdmann's bad health, Lucy makes a decision to look for another part-time job.\n\nIn response to a classified ad for yet another short-term job, Lucy meets Clara (Rachael Blake), who runs a service that combines lingerie modelling and catering performed by young women at a black tie dinner party for male clients. Clara assures her that the men are not allowed to touch the women sexually, and Lucy agrees to try it. Clara inspects Lucy's body and names her \"Sara\" for the purpose of anonymity. At the dinner party, Lucy is the only girl dressed in white; the other women wear black lingerie that is much more revealing than Lucy's costume.\n\nAfter one other session as a serving girl, Lucy gets promoted. She receives a call from Clara's assistant, Tom (Eden Falk), for a different request. Lucy is driven to a country mansion, where Clara offers Lucy a new role wherein she will be voluntarily sedated and sleep naked while male clients lie beside her. They are permitted to caress and cuddle her, but penetration is not allowed. After Lucy falls asleep, she lies unconscious on the bed and Clara leads in her client. After Clara reminds the man of the no-penetration rule, he strips and curls up beside Lucy.\n\nAfter a few of these sessions, Lucy has enough money to move into a larger, more expensive apartment, where she lives alone. She receives a call from Birdmann, who has overdosed on painkillers. She goes to his house and finds him dying in his bed. Sobbing, she takes off her shirt and gets in bed with him, but he dies in her arms. At Birdmann's funeral, Lucy abruptly asks an old friend if he will marry her, in an echo of Birdmann's old playful banter. The friend, however, not understanding the reference, takes her seriously and, shocked, refuses her, citing a number of Lucy's personal problems as his reasons.\n\nAt her next assignment with Clara, Lucy asks if she can see what happens during the sessions while she is asleep. Clara refuses, saying it will put her clients at risk of blackmail. Lucy decides to surreptitiously film her next encounter. The client is once again the first man, but this time, he also drinks the tea with a much larger dose of the sleeping drug.\n\nThe following morning, Clara comes in and checks the man's pulse, showing no surprise when he cannot be awakened. Clara tries to wake Lucy, who has overdosed as well, and is eventually able to revive her using mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. Lucy begins screaming when she sees the dead man in bed next to her.\n\nThe film ends with the scene captured by the hidden camera: the dead old man and the sleeping girl both lying peacefully together in bed.\n\nWriter and director Julia Leigh, primarily a novelist, said in an interview with \"Filmmaker Magazine\" that she initially wrote the film without the intention of directing it. In writing the script, Leigh drew from several literary inspirations, including Yasunari Kawabata's \"House of the Sleeping Beauties\" and \"Memories of My Melancholy Whores\" by Gabriel Garcia Marquez, as well as the eponymous fairytales by Charles Perrault and The Brothers Grimm, and the biblical story of an old King Solomon who had young virgins brought to him from all over his realm to sleep alongside him. She also noted the phenomenon of images of sleeping girls on some of the fetish websites. Kawabata's novel had been adapted in 2006 by German director Vadim Glowna, as \"Das Haus der Schlafenden Schönen\" (\"House of the Sleeping Beauties\"), but had been released to generally negative reviews.\n\nThe \"Sleeping Beauty\" script made the 2008 Black List of unproduced screenplays grabbing attention in Hollywood. In September 2009 the project was approved for funding from Screen Australia. In February 2010 it was announced that Emily Browning would play the lead role. Mia Wasikowska was originally cast as Lucy but she dropped out when offered the title role in the adaption of \"Jane Eyre\".\n\nPrincipal photography on the film began on April 3, 2010, at University of Sydney, Camperdown and downtown Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "435080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435080", "title": "Verb framing", "text": "Verb framing\n\nIn linguistics, verb-framing and satellite-framing are typological descriptions of a way that verb phrases in a language can describe the \"path\" of motion or the \"manner\" of motion, respectively. Some languages use it and others do not.\n\nThe manner of motion refers to a type of distinct motion described by a particular verb: running, tumbling, sliding, walking, crawling, etc. The path of motion refers to the direction of the movement: movement into, out of, across, etc. The two concepts can be encoded in the verb as part of its root meaning or in a separate particle associated to the verb (a \"satellite\"). Manner may also not be expressed at all.\n\nLanguages are considered \"verb-framed\" or \"satellite-framed\" based on how the motion path is encoded. English verbs use particles to show the path of motion (\"run into\", \"go out\", \"fall down\"), and its verbs usually show manner of motion; thus, English is a satellite-framed language. English verbs that are exceptions are mostly derived from Latin, such as \"exit\", \"ascend\", or \"enter\".\n\nAll Germanic languages are satellite-framed languages. Accordingly, \"to go out\" is \"hinausgehen\" in German, \"uitgaan\" in Dutch and \"gå ut\" in Swedish, wherein \"gehen\" / \"gaan\" / \"gå\" are equivalents of \"to go\", and \"hinaus\" / \"uit\" / \"ut\" are equivalents of \"out\". In this manner, Germanic languages can form all kinds of compounds, even less manifest ones like (German) \"hinaustanzen\" \"to dance out\" and so on.\n\nOn the other hand, all Romance languages are verb-framed. Spanish, for example, makes heavy use of verbs of motion like \"entrar\", \"salir\", \"subir\", \"bajar\" (\"go in\", \"go out\", \"go up\", \"go down\"), which directly encode motion path, and may leave out the manner of motion or express it in a complement of manner (typically a participle): \"entró corriendo\" \"he ran in\", literally \"he entered running\"; \"salió flotando\" \"it floated out\", literally \"it exited floating\". \n\nThe terms verb framing and satellite framing are not restricted to Romance and Germanic languages, respectively. Many languages can be assigned to one of the two systems. For example, verb framing is used in Turkish, Hebrew and Arabic. (In the latter, \"dakhala rākiḍan\" means \"he entered running\", with the perfect form \"dakhala\" meaning \"he entered\" and the participle \"rākiḍan\" meaning \"running\".) Satellite framing is common in Greek. Some languages use both strategies. For example, Persian is chiefly verb-framed, but also has such compounds as \"dar-āmadan\" (, \"to come in\") from \"dar\" (\"in\") and \"āmadan\" (\"to come\").\n\nRomance languages, such as French, are normally verb-framed, and Germanic languages, such as English, are satellite-framed. This means that when expressing motion events, English speakers typically express manner in the verb, and French speakers (like Italian & Spanish speakers) typically express path in the verb and either leave out the manner of motion completely or express it in a complement of manner. Thus, to take one example, \"He ran into the room\" is routinely translated as \"Il est entré dans la pièce\"; only sometimes will it be \"Il est entré dans la pièce en courant\" (\"he entered the room running\"). This means, first, that the verb itself normally does not express manner in French, as opposed to what is generally the case in English; and if manner is expressed, it is expressed in a complement (or, more precisely, an adjunct) of manner: \"en courant\" (\"running\").\n\nThe question, then, remains of whether to express manner or not. It is not always easy to know, but manner is generally left unexpressed when it can be considered to be self-evident and can be inferred from the context; expressing the manner then tends to sound unnatural. Thus, \"He ran into the room\" can be translated as \"Il est entré dans la pièce en courant\" because it is slightly unusual to run into a room and so manner should be mentioned, but translating \"He walked into the room\" as \"Il est entré dans la pièce à pied\" (\"on foot\") or \"en marchant\" (\"walking\") is distinctly odd because it is the usual way in which one enters a room. Only in a case where someone was riding a bicycle before or moving in another unusual way can the fact that he \"walked\" into the room be considered to be relevant. The same can be said for this example: saying \"I'm flying to London\" when on a plane is normal in English, but saying \"Je vole\" (\"I'm flying\") in French for the same situation is odd: first, because the verb is not where one should normally express manner in the first place and also because flying is a common way of travelling to London from France.\n\nThis means that the choice of complement and in particular the choice of the preposition can also be affected: in English, the particle or the prepositional phrase (the \"satellite\") is where the path is expressed, with the use of a dynamic preposition: \"(walk) into (the room)\", \"(fly) to (London)\", whereas in French, it is the verb that normally expresses the path. A preposition like \"à\" (\"to, at, in\") is ambiguous between a static reading (\"Je suis à Paris\"/\"I'm in Paris\") and a dynamic reading (\"Je vais à Paris\"/\"I'm going to Paris\"). If the verb is dynamic and expresses directed motion (motion with an intrinsic direction), \"à\" can express movement (\"Je vais à Paris\"). If not, as is the case for instance with \"voler\" (\"to fly\"), which expresses manner of motion but not directed motion, \"à\" tends to receive a static and not a dynamic, interpretation: \"je vole à Paris\" would mean something like \"I'm flying IN Paris\", and not \"I'm flying TO Paris\". Using the same structure as in English can be doubly misleading, as the verb and the preposition are both unusual; \"Je vais à\" (\"I'm going to\")/\"Je suis en route\" (\"I am on my way\") \"vers\"/\"pour Paris\" (\"towards/for Paris\") are much better.\n\nAlthough languages can generally be classified as \"verb-framed\"/\"satellite-framed\", not everything works exactly in that way. First, languages can use both strategies, as is the case with the Latinate verbs mentioned supra for English: \"enter\", \"ascend\", \"exit\". The existence of equipollently-framed languages in which both manner and path are expressed in verbs has been pointed out (Slobin 2004). It could be true of Chinese, for instance.\n\nMany Native American languages, such as the extinct Atsugewi, do not select verbs of motion based on path or manner. Instead, verbs of motion are specific to the kind of object that is moving or being moved.\n\n"}
{"id": "244705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244705", "title": "Weil conjectures", "text": "Weil conjectures\n\nIn mathematics, the Weil conjectures were some highly influential proposals by , which led to a successful multi-decade program to prove them, in which many leading researchers developed the framework of modern algebraic geometry and number theory.\n\nThe conjectures concern the generating functions (known as local zeta-functions) derived from counting the number of points on algebraic varieties over finite fields. A variety \"V\" over a finite field with \"q\" elements has a finite number of rational points (with coordinates in the original field), as well as points with coordinates in any finite extension of the original field. The generating function has coefficients derived from the numbers \"N\" of points over the extension field with \"q\" elements.\n\nWeil conjectured that such \"zeta-functions\" for smooth varieties should be rational functions, should satisfy a form of functional equation, and should have their zeroes in restricted places. The last two parts were quite consciously modeled on the Riemann zeta function, a kind of generating function for prime integers, which obeys a functional equation and (conjecturally) has its zeroes restricted by the Riemann hypothesis. The rationality was proved by , the functional equation by , and the analogue of the Riemann hypothesis by .\n\nThe earliest antecedent of the Weil conjectures is by Carl Friedrich Gauss and appears in section VII of his \"Disquisitiones Arithmeticae\" , concerned with roots of unity and Gaussian periods. In article 358, he moves on from the periods that build up towers of quadratic extensions, for the construction of regular polygons; and assumes that \"p\" is a prime number such that is divisible by 3. Then there is a cyclic cubic field inside the cyclotomic field of \"p\"th roots of unity, and a normal integral basis of periods for the integers of this field (an instance of the Hilbert–Speiser theorem). Gauss constructs the order-3 periods, corresponding to the cyclic group (Z/\"pZ) of non-zero residues modulo \"p\" under multiplication and its unique subgroup of index three. Gauss lets formula_1, formula_2, and formula_3 be its cosets. Taking the periods (sums of roots of unity) corresponding to these cosets applied to formula_4, he notes that these periods have a multiplication table that is accessible to calculation. Products are linear combinations of the periods, and he determines the coefficients. He sets, for example, formula_5 equal to the number of elements of Z/\"pZ which are in formula_1 and which, after being increased by one, are also in formula_1. He proves that this number and related ones are the coefficients of the products of the periods. To see the relation of these sets to the Weil conjectures, notice that if α and are both in formula_1, then there exist \"x\" and \"y\" in Z/\"pZ such that \"x\" = α and \"y\" = α + 1; consequently, formula_9}. Therefore formula_5 is the number of solutions to \"x\" + 1 = \"y\" in the finite field Z/\"pZ. The other coefficients have similar interpretations. Gauss's determination of the coefficients of the products of the periods therefore counts the number of points on these elliptic curves, and as a byproduct he proves the analog of the Riemann hypothesis.\n\nThe Weil conjectures in the special case of algebraic curves were conjectured by . The case of curves over finite fields was proved by Weil, finishing the project started by Hasse's theorem on elliptic curves over finite fields. Their interest was obvious enough from within number theory: they implied upper bounds for exponential sums, a basic concern in analytic number theory .\n\nWhat was really eye-catching, from the point of view of other mathematical areas, was the proposed connection with algebraic topology. Given that finite fields are \"discrete\" in nature, and topology speaks only about the \"continuous\", the detailed formulation of Weil (based on working out some examples) was striking and novel. It suggested that geometry over finite fields should fit into well-known patterns relating to Betti numbers, the Lefschetz fixed-point theorem and so on.\n\nThe analogy with topology suggested that a new homological theory be set up applying within algebraic geometry. This took two decades (it was a central aim of the work and school of Alexander Grothendieck) building up on initial suggestions from Serre. The rationality part of the conjectures was proved first by , using \"p\"-adic methods. and his collaborators established the rationality conjecture, the functional equation and the link to Betti numbers by using the properties of étale cohomology, a new cohomology theory developed by Grothendieck and Artin for attacking the Weil conjectures, as outlined in . \nOf the four conjectures the analogue of the Riemann hypothesis was the hardest to prove. Motivated by the proof of of an analogue of the Weil conjectures for Kähler manifolds, Grothendieck envisioned a proof based on his standard conjectures on algebraic cycles . However, Grothendieck's standard conjectures remain open (except for the hard Lefschetz theorem, which was proved by Deligne by extending his work on the Weil conjectures), and the analogue of the Riemann hypothesis was proved by , using the étale cohomology theory but circumventing the use of standard conjectures by an ingenious argument.\n\nSuppose that \"X\" is a non-singular \"n\"-dimensional projective algebraic variety over the field F with \"q\" elements. The zeta function ζ(\"X\", \"s\") of \"X\" is by definition\n\nwhere \"N\" is the number of points of \"X\" defined over the degree \"m\" extension F of F.\n\nThe Weil conjectures state:\n\n\nThe simplest example (other than a point) is to take \"X\" to be the projective line. The number of points of \"X\" over a field with \"q\" elements is just \"N\" = \"q\" + 1 (where the \"+ 1\" comes from the \"point at infinity\"). The zeta function is just\n\nIt is easy to check all parts of the Weil conjectures directly. For example, the corresponding complex variety is the Riemann sphere and its initial Betti numbers are 1, 0, 1.\n\nIt is not much harder to do \"n\" dimensional projective space.\nThe number of points of \"X\" over a field with \"q\" elements is\njust \"N\" = 1 + \"q\" + \"q\" + ... + \"q\". The zeta function is just\n\nIt is again easy to check all parts of the Weil conjectures directly. (Complex projective space gives the relevant Betti numbers, which nearly determine the answer.)\n\nThe number of points on the projective line and projective space are so easy to calculate because they can be written as disjoint unions of a finite number of copies of affine spaces. It is also easy to prove the Weil conjectures for other spaces, such as Grassmannians and flag varieties, which have the same \"paving\" property.\n\nThese give the first non-trivial cases of the Weil conjectures (proved by Hasse).\nIf \"E\" is an elliptic curve over a finite field with \"q\" elements, then the number of points of \"E\" defined over the field with \"q\" elements is 1 − α− β + \"q\", \nwhere α and β are complex conjugates with absolute value √\"q\".\nThe zeta function is\n\nWeil suggested that the conjectures would follow from the existence of a suitable \"Weil cohomology theory\" for varieties over finite fields, similar to the usual cohomology with rational coefficients for complex varieties.\nHis idea was that if \"F\" is the Frobenius automorphism over the finite field, then the number of points of the variety \"X\" over the field of order \"q\" is the number of fixed points of \"F\" (acting on all points of the variety \"X\" defined over the algebraic closure). In algebraic topology the number of fixed points of an automorphism can be worked out using the Lefschetz fixed point theorem, given as an alternating sum of traces on the cohomology groups. So if there were similar cohomology groups for varieties over finite fields, then the zeta function could be expressed in terms of them.\n\nThe first problem with this is that the coefficient field for a Weil cohomology theory cannot be the rational numbers. To see this consider the case of a supersingular elliptic curve over a finite field of characteristic \"p\". The endomorphism ring of this is an order in a quaternion algebra over the rationals, and should act on the first cohomology group, which should be a 2-dimensional vector space over the coefficient field by analogy with the case of a complex elliptic curve. However a quaternion algebra over the rationals cannot act on a 2-dimensional vector space over the rationals. The same argument eliminates the possibility of the coefficient field being the reals or the \"p\"-adic numbers, because the quaternion algebra is still a division algebra over these fields. However it does not eliminate the possibility that the coefficient field is the field of \"l\"-adic numbers for some prime \"l\" ≠ \"p\", because over these fields the division algebra splits and becomes a matrix algebra, which can act on a 2-dimensional vector space. Grothendieck and Michael Artin managed to construct suitable cohomology theories over the field of \"l\"-adic numbers for each prime \"l\" ≠ \"p\", called l-adic cohomology.\n\nBy the end of 1964 Grothendieck together with Artin and Jean-Louis Verdier proved the Weil conjectures apart from the most difficult third conjecture above (the \"Riemann hypothesis\" conjecture) (Grothendieck 1965). The general theorems about étale cohomology allowed Grothendieck to prove an analogue of the Lefschetz fixed point formula for the \"l\"-adic cohomology theory, and by applying it to the Frobenius automorphism \"F\" he was able to prove the conjectured formula for the zeta function:\nwhere each polynomial \"P\" is the determinant of \"I − TF\" on the \"l\"-adic cohomology group \"H\".\n\nThe rationality of the zeta function follows immediately. The functional equation for the zeta function follows from Poincaré duality for \"l\"-adic cohomology, and the relation with complex Betti numbers of a lift follows from a comparison theorem between \"l\"-adic and ordinary cohomology for complex varieties.\n\nMore generally, Grothendieck proved a similar formula for the zeta function (or \"generalized L-function\") of a sheaf \"F\":\nas a product over cohomology groups:\nThe special case of the constant sheaf gives the usual zeta function.\n\n, , and gave expository accounts of the first proof of . Much of the background in \"l\"-adic cohomology is described in .\n\nDeligne's first proof of the remaining third Weil conjecture (the \"Riemann hypothesis conjecture\") used the following steps:\n\n\nThe heart of Deligne's proof is to show that the sheaf \"E\" over \"U\" is pure, in other words to find the absolute values of the eigenvalues of Frobenius on its stalks. This is done by studying the zeta functions of the even powers \"E\" of \"E\" and applying Grothendieck's formula for the zeta functions as alternating products over cohomology groups. The crucial idea of considering even \"k\" powers of \"E\" was inspired by the paper , who used a similar idea with \"k\"=2 for bounding the Ramanujan tau function. pointed out that a generalization of Rankin's result for higher even values of \"k\" would imply the Ramanujan conjecture, and Deligne realized that in the case of zeta functions of varieties, Grothendieck's theory of zeta functions of sheaves provided an analogue of this generalization.\n\nThe deduction of the Riemann hypothesis from this estimate is mostly a fairly straightforward use of standard techniques and is done as follows.\n\n found and proved a generalization of the Weil conjectures, bounding the weights of the pushforward of a sheaf. In practice it is this generalization rather than the original Weil conjectures that is mostly used in applications, such as the hard Lefschetz theorem. Much of the second proof is a rearrangement of the ideas of his first proof. The main extra idea needed is an argument closely related to the theorem of Jacques Hadamard and Charles Jean de la Vallée Poussin, used by Deligne to show that various \"L\"-series do not have zeros with real part 1.\n\nA constructible sheaf on a variety over a finite field is called pure of weight β if for all points \"x\" the eigenvalues of the Frobenius at \"x\" all have absolute value \"N\"(\"x\"), and is called mixed of weight ≤β if it can be written as repeated extensions by pure sheaves with weights ≤β.\n\nDeligne's theorem states that if \"f\" is a morphism of schemes of finite type over a finite field, then \"R\"\"f\" takes mixed sheaves of weight ≤β to mixed sheaves of weight ≤β+i.\n\nThe original Weil conjectures follow by taking \"f\" to be a morphism from a smooth projective variety to a point and considering the constant sheaf Q on the variety. This gives an upper bound on the absolute values of the eigenvalues of Frobenius, and Poincaré duality then shows that this is also a lower bound.\n\nIn general \"R\"\"f\" does not take pure sheaves to pure sheaves. However it does when a suitable form of Poincaré duality holds, for example if \"f\" is smooth and proper, or if one works with perverse sheaves rather than sheaves as in .\n\nInspired by the work of on Morse theory, found another proof, using Deligne's \"l\"-adic Fourier transform, which allowed him to simplify Deligne's proof by avoiding the use of the method of Hadamard and de la Vallée Poussin. His proof generalizes the classical calculation of the absolute value of Gauss sums using the fact that the norm of a Fourier transform has a simple relation to the norm of the original function. used Laumon's proof as the basis for their exposition of Deligne's theorem. gave a further simplification of Laumon's proof, using monodromy in the spirit of Deligne's first proof. gave another proof using the Fourier transform, replacing etale cohomology with rigid cohomology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49302509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49302509", "title": "Zhuang Yunkuan", "text": "Zhuang Yunkuan\n\nZhuang Yunkuan (; 1867–1932), courtesy name Sijian (), art name Baohong (), was a Chinese calligrapher and Qing dynasty and Republic of China politician. He was born in Wujin County, Changzhou Prefecture, Jiangsu (modern Wujin District, Changzhou). He was prefect of Pingnan County, Guangxi, Sicheng (in Lingyun County) and Wuzhou. He was a delegate to the conference to create a provisional constitution for the Republic of China. In 1925, he served on the board of directors for the National Palace Museum.\n\n"}
