{"id": "17511358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17511358", "title": "Agasha Temple of Wisdom", "text": "Agasha Temple of Wisdom\n\nThe Agasha Temple of Wisdom is a spiritualist group founded in 1943 by Richard Zenor. After the publication of James Crenshaw's book \"Telephone Between Two Worlds\" in 1950, in which both Zenor and the temple were prominently featured, the temple became more popular. Upon Zenor's death in 1978, Geary Salvat was chosen to lead the group.\n\nGeary Salvat is a follower of both Richard Zenor and of Ayuibbi Tobabu, and he has written a journal of quotes, \"Getting Into Gear\". He died in 2002.\n\nThe group focuses on communicating with the dead through mediums, placing particular attention on receiving and studying the teachings of \"master teachers\" such as Zenor's \"Agasha\". These teachings can be summarized by some universal spiritual precepts, including \"as you sow, so shall you reap\" and the Golden Rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "2754965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2754965", "title": "Akhand Kirtani Jatha", "text": "Akhand Kirtani Jatha\n\nThe Akhand Kirtani Jatha (or AKJ) is a sect or \"jatha\" (collective group) of Sikhism dedicated to the Sikh lifestyle.\n\nThe AKJ has been called a purist or fundamentalist group within Sikhism, because it believes that the words of the Guru Granth are literally the words of the Guru, asserting that no interpretation of scriptural passages by others is necessary, whose meaning is clear and self-evident. The sect extends the Sikh Rehat Maryada (Sikh Code of Conduct) of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, and includes its own code called the \"Rahit-bibek\". The group, for example, extends the uncut hair (\"kesh\") requirement for men, with a small turban (\"keshki\") to be worn by both women and men.\n\nThe roots of this sect are in the movement initiated by Randhir Singh (d. 1961) during the Indian independence movement in the first half of the 20th century. It emerged in ca. 1980.\n\nRandhir Singh (1878–1961) from Ludhiana who opposed the British rule and was imprisoned by the British authorities in 1914 till 1931. His followers were known as the \"Bhai Randhir Singh da Jatha\". \n\nThe Akhand Kirtani Jatha was a group that grew in the later half of twentieth century. Since the 1978, it was headed by Amarjit Kaur, whose husband was killed in the 1978 Sikh–Nirankari clashes in Amritsar in 1978. After the death of her husband she directed the organisation to focus on isolating and even killing the Nirankaris. An extremist offshoot of the AKJ, known as the Babbar Khalsa, was active in assassinations and religious violence against the Nirankari Sikhs during the 1980s.\n\nThe AKJ appears as a group of the Sikh diaspora involved in the Khalistan movement in the 1980s. The AKJ participated in a convention in Slough, Berkshire in 1987.\n\nNo estimates on the number of adherents is known. Outside of Amritsar and Ludhiana Panjab, the AKJ appear to have a United Kingdom chapters in Coventry, Birmingham and Derby UK.\n\nAkhand Kirtani Jatha believe that \"'all praise must be to the Guru Granth Sahib and God and there is absolutely no need for any respect for a living sant' \n\nAKJ differs in many parts from mainstream Sikhism in their interpretation of one of The Five Ks of Sikhism: instead of accepting the \"kes\" or \"uncut hair\", they interpret the command as referring to \"keski\", a small turban, which they maintain must be worn by Sikhs of either sex.\n\nIn Bhogal's description of beliefs and practices of the AKJ, he noted some of the group's beliefs and said \"In such beliefs the group reject the general code of conduct known as the Sikh Rahit Marayada of the S.G.P.C. [...], and produced their own called \"rahit-bibek\" (\"bibek\" means discrimination, discernment, insight).\"\n\nBhogal also noted that \"They also believe in a \"different Khalsa initiation ceremony\" (as of the original which was set up in 1699 by the tenth Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh himself), wherein the five beloved ones, or five Gursikhs place their right hand on the neophyte's head and meditatively repeat the mantra 'Vahiguru', revolving around the innitiate for five or so minutes.\"\n\nThe Jatha's devotional singing programmes include all-night \"Rain sabai\" and \"Kirtan Darbars\" which usually last around 11 hours.\nThe \"kirtan\" is usually sung with basic musical tunes as the main emphasis of the \"kirtans\" is on the Guru's Word and repeating the \"Gurmantar\" (Guru's Mantra) of \"vaheguru\" with great fervour when prompted to repeat the Lord's Name in the sacred hymns being sung.\nJatha members never eat meat, fish or eggs, and the AKJ argues strongly that eating any form of flesh is forbidden in the AKJ \"rahit-bibek\".\n\n\"Raagmala\" is a composition appended to Sri Guru Granth Sahib, appearing after the \"Mundaavni\" (epilogue or \"closing seal\").\nThe Jatha do not accept the \"Raagmala\" and do not read it when concluding a scripture-reading - the vast majority of baptized Sikhs read since 1604 the Raagmala.\n\nBhogal noted that this is one of the areas in which the AKJ rejects the \"Sikh Rehat Maryada of the SGPC\" interpretation.\n\nThe AKJ have their own interpretation of the Sikh prohibition against \"Kutha meat\". They hold that this term means \"slaughtered animal\" or \"killed animal\", and thus that eating any meat whatsoever is a transgression.\n\nThe Sikh Rehat Maryada and some Sikh scholars define \"Kutthaa\" as meat \"slaughtered in the Muslim way\" (\"Halaal\" meat).\nThe current official AKJ leadership details are:\n\n\nBakhsheesh Singh (Phagwara)\n\n"}
{"id": "5276257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5276257", "title": "Allamah", "text": "Allamah\n\nAllamah (, Urdu and ), also spelled \"Allamah\" and \"Allama\", is an honorary title carried by scholars of Islamic fiqh (jurisprudence) and philosophy.\n\nIt is used as an honorific in Sunni Islam as well as in Shia Islam, mostly in South Asia, Middle East and Iran. Sunnis and Shias who have achieved the rank of a scholarship in several disciplines are often referred to by the title.\n\n"}
{"id": "14132458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14132458", "title": "Aristocreon", "text": "Aristocreon\n\nAristocreon (; fl. 200 BC) was a Stoic philosopher and the nephew of Chrysippus.\n\nAristocreon was a son of the sister of Chrysippus, and became his pupil. Chrysippus dedicated several of his works to him. Of the few facts known about Aristocreon's life, it is known that between 229 and 190 BC, he was in Athens, where he obtained the official position of a Proxenos (a consular agent acting for another city). He was still alive in Athens in 184 BC. Plutarch records that Aristocreon erected a bronze statue of his uncle on a pillar and engraved a verse to him:\nIt is not known whether this Aristocreon is the same as the author of a description of Egypt.\n\n"}
{"id": "35606887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35606887", "title": "Attachment theory and psychology of religion", "text": "Attachment theory and psychology of religion\n\nAttachment theory and psychology of religion research explores the ways that a belief in God can fulfill the criteria of an attachment figure and examines how individual differences in attachment lead to correspondence or compensation pathways.\n\nAttachment theory began with evolutionary psychologist John Bowlby in 1969. Attachment theory was initially grounded in the observation that human beings appear to be born with an innate psychobiological system (the \"attachment behavioral system\") that motivates them to seek proximity to significant others (\"attachment figures\"). This revolutionary theory has found application in topics such as friendships, romantic relationships, coping with stress, loneliness and grief.\n\nBowlby described an attachment system as an evolved behavioral system in humans and other primates, which was designed by natural selection to maintain proximity between people and their attachment figures. He postulated that the attachment system is in line with control systems theory, a goal-corrected, or homeostatic system. The system monitors proximity to the primary caregiver, friends, pets, romantic partners and compares it to the desired level of proximity. If the attachment figure is regarded as unavailable or not near enough, attachment behaviors are activated and deactivated when attachment figure becomes sufficient.\n\nOn the “flip side” of attachment is the exploration system. When the exploration system is activated, the attachment system is deactivated. While the attachment system keeps the primary caregiver, adult romantic partner, pets or friends in close proximity, the exploration system allows for acquiring and practicing new skills while exploring the environment. These two functions are crucial in defining and distinguishing attachment relationships from other types of interpersonal relationships. Insecurely attached individuals either defensively minimize closeness seeking behaviors or maximize behaviors to become closer to attachment figure. These two behaviors can be conceptualized as avoidant attachment (the extent to which a person distrusts attachment figure and strives to maintain behavioral independence and emotional distance) and anxious attachment (the degree to which a person worries that an attachment figure will not be available partly because the anxiously attached person doubts his or her own lovability and value).\n\nPsychoanalysis has a long history of conceptualizing religious belief in terms of relationship between the self and others. A religious believer's perception that they have a relationship with a deity or God leaves open the question of whether such a relationship is an attachment relation. It is easy to draw analogies between beliefs about God and mental models of attachment figures, but it is a difficult distinction to make that God \"really\" can be an attachment figure. In addition, research has shown that adult attachments and attachment to God are fundamentally distinct phenomenon, for instance Simon and Low (2003). Kirkpatrick suggests that for many people in many religions, the attachment system is fundamentally involved in their thinking, beliefs, and reasoning about God and their relationship to God. According to this theory our knowledge of how attachment processes work in non-religious relationships should prove useful in understanding the ways in which people see God and interact with God.\n\nOne biological function of the attachment system, according to Bowlby, is to maintain proximity between a person and an attachment figure. Religions provide many ways that believers can maintain closeness to God. Most theistic traditions describe God as being omnipresent, that is, is all places at all times, and while this is a key aspect of religion that creates closeness to God it is not the only way. Virtually all religions have a place or building in which believers come to worship and be closer to their deity or God. Within these places of worship, as well as outside of them, there is an array of idols and symbols; such as artwork, jewelry, and images of crosses that serve to remind believers of God’s closeness. Granqvist and Kirkpatrick suggest that prayer is the most important way that believers maintain proximity to God.\n\nAnother function of the attachment system, according to Bowlby, is the attachment figure serving as a haven of safety in times of danger or threat. Bowlby also described three situations that activate the attachment behaviors: (1) frightening or alarming environmental events; (2)illness, injury or fatigue; and (3) separation or threat of separation from attachment figure.\n\nA “secure base” provides security for exploration in one’s environment. By most definitions God is omnipresent, omnipotent, and omniscient. Bowlby described a secure base and its psychological effects as this, “When an individual is confident that an attachment figure will be available to him whenever he desires it, that person will be much less prone to either intense or chronic fear than will an individual who for any reason has no such confidence.” It is easy to see how God would be the most secure of secure bases.\n\nIn religious scripture God is often described as by one’s side, one’s rock and fortress, one’s strength, and many other terms that reflect an attachment relationship. Research done by Myers (1992), as mentioned by Granqvist and Kirkpatrick, on the psychological outcomes associated with “attachment to God” (such as religious faith giving believers a sense of optimism and hope for the future) suggest that at least some forms of religiousness are associated with the kind of confident, self-assured approach to life that a secure base is thought to provide.\n\nAinsworth (1985), as mentioned by Granqvist and Kirkpatrick, outlines the fourth and fifth defining criteria of attachment as concern responses to separation from, or loss of, the attachment figure per se: The threat of separation causes anxiety in the attached person, and loss of the attachment figure causes grief. Because of God’s perceived omnipresence, it is difficult to determine whether God meets these criteria. A believer does not lose a relationship with God as he or she loses a human relationship. There are instances in religious life when believers are unable to experience God as they did at some point in their life. It is important to note that in most Christian belief systems, separation from God is the very essence of hell.\n\nBowlby further described an “attachment relationship” as a weaker, less competent individual having another individual that he or she perceives as stronger and wiser, but this is now known to be wrong, as research has identified that adult attachments include friendships, romantic relationships and even pets in which the reciprocal partner, be it human or non-human, is not necessarily perceived as stronger or wiser.\n\nIndividual differences in attachment security often affect the output of the attachment system in human relationships. In the same way, they often modify the effects of attachment processes in the context of believers’ perceived relationships with God. Two general hypotheses have been suggested and are seen as describing two distinct developmental pathways in religion—the compensation hypothesis and the correspondence hypothesis.\n\nThe compensation pathway is related to the regulation of distress following experiences with insensitive caregivers. This situation describes a negative answer to the question of whether an attachment figure is sufficiently near, attentive, responsive, and approving. According to the attachment theory this situation activates attachment behaviors to restore an adequate degree of proximity, but under certain condition the individual may anticipate that their efforts are unlikely to be successful. Bowlby described what is likely to happen if such a case occurs, “Whenever the natural object of attachment behavior is unavailable, the behavior can become directed towards some substitute object. Even though it is inanimate, such an object frequently appears capable of filling the role of an important, though subsidiary, attachment ‘figure.’ Like the principal attachment figure, the inanimate substitute is sought especially when a child is tired, ill or distressed”.\n\nGranqvist and others suggest that people should also be able to turn to God as a substitute attachment-like figure under such conditions. The compensation pathway’s focus is on the degree to which experiences with insensitive caregivers and/or attachment insecurities are associated with use of God and religion to regulate attachment-related distress.\n\nStudies on attachment and religion have been ambiguous with no clear findings. \nAccording to Hall, Fukujima and Delaney after an independent review of literature: \"On the surface, it appears that the empirical literature to date presents a rather inconsistent picture.\" The same authors in 2010 found that the compensation model was not supported, and insecure individuals high in parental insensitivity were not more religious.\n\nHagekull and Granqvist in 2001 found that childhood insecure attachment to a mother were strongly related to holding positive beliefs about astrology, the occult, parapsychology and UFOs in a Swedish sample. Since these New Age beliefs, such as parapsychology or astrology are unrelated to a personal God, these results argue against the model that insecure individuals adopt concepts involving a personal loving God to compensate for inadequate childhood relationships.\nGranqvist and Kirkpatrick found that people who had sudden conversions to religion not only outscored non-converts in parental insensitivity but also outscored individuals who had experienced a more gradual increase in religiousness, however, the same authors have also found that people who suddenly deconverted from a religion, such as agnostics and atheists also scored higher in childhood insecure attachments to a mother or father. Similarly to insecure parental attachment, insecure romantic attachment predicts sudden religious conversions and deconversions. \n\nBowlby suggests attachment patterns continue across time partly because the way a person sees themselves and others (internal working model) guides behavioral, emotional, and cognitive responses in social interactions over the life span. The correspondence hypothesis suggests individual differences in religious beliefs and experience should correspond with individual differences in the internal working models and attachment patterns. This theory suggests a \"secure\" IWM of self and others predicts viewing God as supporting. A person with a preoccupied or anxious attachment may be expected to have a deeply emotional, grasping relationship with God, while a person with an avoidant attachment would be expected to view God as remote or inaccessible.\n\nThe correspondence hypothesis suggests securely attached people would be expected to reflect the religious standards while insecurely attached people would not be expected to reflect their attachment figure’s religious standards. People who report being more cared for by parents score higher on measures of religiousness, but only if their parents also displayed high levels of religiosity. Another study found that such people had a higher assessed religiosity as socially rooted in the parental relationship. This aspect of the correspondence hypothesis, that is, people reflecting attachment figure’s religious standards, can be called \"social correspondence\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1694519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694519", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in India", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in India\n\nEven though the Bahá'í Faith in India is tiny in proportion of the national population, it is numerically large and has a long history culminating in recent times with the notable Lotus Temple, various Bahá'í schools, and increasing prominence. According to the 2016 World Religion Database India had just over 2 million Bahá'ís in 2015, on top of the 2010 Association of Religion Data Archives data of some 1,898,000 Bahá'ís in India; however, the 2011 Census of India recorded only 4,572.\n\nThe roots of the Bahá'í Faith in India go back to the first days of the Bábí religion in 1844. Four Babís are known from India in this earliest period. The first was Sa'id Hindi, one of the Letters of the Living, and a second was only known as Qahru'llah. Two other very early Bábís were Sa'in Hindi and Sayyid Basir Hindi. Additionally, four other Indians are listed among the 318 Bábís who fought at the Battle of Fort Tabarsi. There is little evidence of any contact from these early Indian Babis back to their homeland.\n\nDuring Bahá'u'lláh's lifetime, as founder of the religion, he encouraged some of his followers to move to India. Some who settled in India including Hájí Sayyid Mírzá and Sayyid Muhammad who had become Bábís after meeting Bahá'u'lláh in Baghdad in the 1850s. Hájí Sayyid Mahmúd also traded in Bombay. These individuals were very successful as general merchants and commission agents but it was near another 50 years before native converts began. A Baha'i teacher was asked for and Jamál Effendi was sent approximately 1875. Still in these early years another member of the family of the Báb, Mírzá Ibrahím, helped establish the first Bahá'í printing and publishing company, the Násirí Press, in Bombay and began to publish Bahá'í books from about 1882-3 onwards. The Book of Certitude and the Secret of Divine Civilization were both published in 1882. Much later – in 1891 – Jamál Effendi was confused with a terrorist and reported on by British agents among the Indian population and those records have been found (though Indian government national archives.) Following the passing of Bahá'u'lláh, as the leadership of the religion fell to `Abdu'l-Bahá, he in turn sent further emissaries in his stead – both Persian and American.\n\nProfessor Pritam Singh is believed to be the first member of the Sikh community in India to accept the Bahá'í Faith, and the first to publish a Bahá'í weekly magazine in India. He learned of the religion from Mirzá Mahmud soon after his graduation from the University of Calcutta in 1904. By 1908 the Bahá'í pioneers and representatives of `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, had produced functioning communities in Bombay, Calcutta, Aligarh and Lahore. Narayenrao Rangnath Shethji is believed to be the first convert from Hindu background. Better known as Vakil, he was born in a well-known Hindu family in Nawsari. He became a Bahá'í in 1909. Representatives of the Indian Zoroastrian community had been sent to Persia to help their coreligionists. There they came into contact with the religion and supported its activities. Later, several Iranian Zoroastrian converts to the religion traveled to Bombay (notably Mulla Bahram Akhtar-Khavari) and actively promulgated their new religion among local Zoroastrians.\n\nAs early as 1910 the national community in India was being urged to distinguish itself from Islam by Bahá'í institutions of America. National coordinated activities began and reached a peak with the December 1920, first All-India Bahá'í Convention, held in Bombay for three days. Representatives from India's major religious communities were present as well as Baha'i delegates from throughout the country. The resolutions arrived at included the collection of funds to build a \"Baha'i temple\", the establishment of a \"Baha'i school\" and the \"growth of teaching and translation work\" – goals reached before the end of the century (see below.)\n\nFollowing the passing of `Abdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi was appointed head of the religion and he soon set about the formation of the first round of National Spiritual Assemblies in the world in 1923 and India's was in that first wave. In 1930 notable Bahá'í and world traveler Martha Root made an extensive trip though India. The first Bahá'í summer school was able to be held in Simla in 1938 and in 1941 three new local communities with functioning Local Spiritual Assemblies had been established: Hyderabad, Kota and Bangalore. These activities reached a peak with occasional awareness of the social leaders in India like Mahatma Gandhi. In time his comment \"The Bahá'í Faith is a solace to humankind.\" appeared in \"The Bombay Chronicle\" newspaper on May 24, 1944, during the centenary of the Bahá'í Faith and the Indian Bahá'í community consisted of twenty-nine Local Spiritual Assemblies.\n\nThrough the first half of the twentieth century, the Bahá'ís continue to grow with a focus away from the large cities and had the notable achievement of the conversion of Kishan Lal Malviya, a scheduled caste leader from Shajapur (a district northeast of Ujjain) and another scheduled caste leader, Dayaram Malviya, also converted setting the stage for a rural dynamic of growth called \"mass teaching\". And Shirin Fozdar rose to prominence and served as a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of India from 1936 to 1951. Her main area of work from 1925 to 1950 was in a large community of Untouchables or Harijans in Ahmedabad.\n\nAfter more than a century the Bahá'í Faith in India had only reached around 1,000 and for a significant time there hadn't even been an Indian-based community in India. Various social and religious forces encouraged a broader outreach for the aims of the teaching activities of the religion. It was a time of \"mass teaching\". The Bahá'í teachings were adapted for presentation to a clearly Hindu context familiar to the people of the countryside, using principles and language familiar to them:\n\n\nTogether with the teaching of the unity of humanity these approaches attracted many of the lower castes. In short order most of a tiny village of some 200 people converted to the Baha'i Faith \"en masse\". The following year hundreds of people adopted the religion thanks to an open air conference where speeches could be heard. In two more years almost as many people converted as had been Bahá'ís through regions of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. In 1961 there were a total of 78 Local Spiritual Assemblies and less than 1,000 believers and in 1963 there were some 65,000 and by 1970 these figures had risen to 3,350 Assemblies and 312,602 believers. However, in contrast to the Neo-Buddhist movement, no effort was made to denounce Hinduism and progress along Bahá'í ideals advanced: Assemblies formed in response to growing numbers of Baha'is, the House of Worship for India was built, and schools were established – all goals of the first All-India Baha'i Convention in 1920 (see above).\n\nDuring this period of growth, six conferences held in October 1967 around the world presented a viewing of a copy of the photograph of Bahá'u'lláh on the highly significant occasion commemorating the centenary of Bahá'u'lláh's writing of the \"Suriy-i-Mulúk\" (Tablet to the Kings), which Shoghi Effendi describes as \"the most momentous Tablet revealed by Bahá'u'lláh\". After a meeting in Edirne (Adrianople), Turkey, the Hands of the Cause travelled to the conferences, 'each bearing the precious trust of a photograph of the Blessed Beauty, which it will be the privilege of those attending the Conferences to view.' Hand of the Cause Abul-Qasim Faizi conveyed this photograph to the Conference for Asia at India.\n\nIndia became the largest Bahá'í community in the world in 2000 after less than a century of mass teaching, with an official Bahá'í population of between 1.7 million to over 2 million, The expansion of the numbers and organization of the community has helped grow the publishing agencies of the religion until the Indian Bahá'í Publishing Trust has an international reputation. According to the 2005 Association of Religion Data Archives data there are close to some 1,880,700 Bahá'ís, and 1,898,000 in 2010, though the 2011 Census of India recorded only 4,572. The census has been under some criticism and scholars regularly use corrections.\n\nThe Bahá'í House of Worship in Delhi, India, popularly known as the Lotus Temple, is a prominent attraction in Delhi. It was completed in 1986 and serves as the Mother Temple of the Indian subcontinent. It has won numerous architectural awards and been featured in hundreds of newspaper and magazine articles, and CNN reported it as the most visited building in the world in 2015. A few international dignitaries have also visited. Lists of prominent individuals are listed in an article and updated most recently in 2004 addition.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. There are some seven educational institutions the Baha'is of India have undertaken. Two of the more well known are:\n\n\nFollowing the successes in large scale growth in numbers and organization with commitment to raise up a Temple and schools, the Baha'i Faith in India has awakened degrees of prominence.\n\n\nThe governments of India and Iran generally maintain good relations. In 2001, the government of India voted against the United Nations resolution \"Situation of Human Rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran\" raised in response to the persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran, and it has voted against many such resolutions since that time. Despite this, many officials and prominent citizens of India have expressed serious concerns about the persecution of Bahá'ís.\nIn June 2008 several leading jurists of India's legal system, journalists, and civil rights activist signed an open letter urging Iran to abide by international human rights conventions and calling for the immediate release of Baha'is detained in the country. Signatories included: former Chief Justice of India Justice Jagdish Sharan Verma, former Supreme Court judge Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer, former Chief Justice of Delhi High Court Justice Rajinder Sachar, former Attorney General Soli Sorabjee, member, Law commission, Tahir Mahmood, former chairperson, National Commission for Women, Dr. Mohini Giri, editorial director, Hindustan Times, Vir Sanghvi, senior columnist Kuldip Nayar, president, World Council for Arya Samaj, Swami Agnivesh, among others.\n\nA similar open letter was published in February 2009, and signed by more than 30 prominent Indians, including Justice Iyer, actor Aamir Khan, Maulana Khalid Rasheed, Swami Agnivesh, and many more. Calls for the release of imprisoned Baha'is have continued since that time, with many prominent Indians expressing their concern.\n\nIn 2006, some former employees of the temple made a complaint to the police that the trustees of the temple had been involved in various crimes including spying, religious conversion and producing false passports. The trial judge directed the police to arrest nine specific trustees, but the High Court later stayed the arrests.\n\nIn 2012 the Universal House of Justice announced the first local Bahá'í House of Worship would be built. One of these was specified in Bihar Sharif, Bihar, India.\n\nThe Bahá'ís of Jaipur registered a complaint, (technically a First Information Report,) with police that their community burial ground had been attacked by a mob of about 40-50 people \"led by a sarpanch\", or head of the local Gram panchayat, on Friday Oct 31, 2015 about 11:30am in Shri Ram Ki Nangal village. \"The Hindu\" newspaper claimed the Sarpanch was Nathu Jangid, head of the village government, based on witness statement. The security guard was injured and the guard's room and prayer house were damaged. The FIR was registered by the local assembly treasurer for the Bahá'ís. In a public meeting representatives of the Bahá'ís stated that they believe this is the first such incident in the history of the religion in the country, named the sarpanch, and recalled that during elections about a year and a half ago he had promised to take away the burial site and make it a playground or school that had been theirs since 2002. The Bahá'ís made no comment on the political statement then because \"as it is in our religion to be apolitical.” Indian newspaper \"The Wire\" published pictures of the site and damage and a claim by Sarpanch Jangid that the land had been illegally sold to the Bahá'ís. The People's Union for Civil Liberties of India has taken an interest in the case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10637665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10637665", "title": "Bavand dynasty", "text": "Bavand dynasty\n\nThe Bavand dynasty () (also spelled Bavend), or simply the Bavandids, was an Iranian dynasty that ruled in parts of Tabaristan (Mazandaran) in what is now northern Iran from 651 until 1349, alternating between outright independence and submission as vassals to more powerful regional rulers.\n\nThe dynasty itself traced its descent back to Bav, who was alleged to be a grandson of the Sasanian prince Kawus, brother of Khosrau I, and son of the shah Kavadh I (ruled 488–531), who supposedly fled to Tabaristan from the Muslim conquest of Persia. He rallied the locals around him, repelled the first Arab attacks, and reigned for fifteen years until he was murdered by a certain Valash, who ruled the country for eight years. Bav's son, Sohrab or Sorkab (Surkhab I), established himself at Perim on the eastern mountain ranges of Tabaristan, which thereafter became the family's domain. The scholar J. Marquart, however, proposed an alternative identification of the legendary Bav with a late-6th-century Zoroastrian priest (\"magian\") from Ray. P. Pourshariati, in her re-examination of late Sasanian history, asserts that this Bav is a conflation of several members of the powerful House of Ispahbudhan: Bawi, his grandson Vistahm and his great-nephew Farrukhzad. She also reconstructs the events of the middle 7th century as a civil war between two rival clans, the Ispahbudhan and Valash's House of Karen, before the Dabuyid Farrukhan the Great conquered Tabaristan and subdued the various local leaders to vassalage. The Dabuyid house then ruled Tabaristan until the Abbasids subdued the region in 760.\n\nIt is at the time after the Abbasid conquest that the Bavandids enter documented history, with Sharwin I, in later tradition accounted the great-grandson of Surkhab I. The dynasty is commonly divided into three major branches: the Kayusiyya, named after Kayus ibn Kubad, the Arabicized name of the family's legendary ancestor Kawus son of Kavadh, which ruled from 665 until 1006, when the family's rule was ended by Qabus ibn Wushmagir. Several members of the family continued to rule in various localities thereafter, giving rise to the second line, the Ispahbadhiyya, in 1073. Their capital was Sari, and their rule extended over Gilan, Ray and Qumis as well as Tabaristan, although they were mostly vassals of the Seljuqs and later of the Khwarezmshahs. The line was ended in 1210 with the murder of Rustam V, and the Khwarezmshah Muhammad II took over direct control of the region. The third line or Kinakhwariyya was established in 1237 following the Mongol invasions and the widespread anarchy that prevailed, and lasted, as a vassal of the Mongols, until the final end of the dynasty in 1349.\n\nFollowing the demise of the Dabuyids, two major local dynasties were left in Tabaristan: the Bavandids in the eastern mountains and the Karenids, who also appropriated the heritage of the Dabuyid rulers, in the central and western mountain ranges. Both claimed Sasanian origin and titelature, with the Bavandids styling themselves as \"kings of Tabaristan\" and, like the Karenids, claiming the title of \"ispahbadh\".\n\nSharwin I, along with the Karenid ruler Vandad Hormozd, led the native resistance to Muslim rule and the efforts at Islamization and settlement begun by the Abbasid governor, Khalid ibn Barmak (768–772). Following his departure, the native princes destroyed the towns he had built in the highlands, and although in 781 they affirmed loyalty to the Caliphate, in 782 they launched a general anti-Muslim revolt that was not suppressed until 785, when Sa'id al-Harashi led 40,000 troops into the region. Relations with the caliphal governors in the lowlands improved thereafter, but the Bavandid and Karenid princes remained united in their opposition to Muslim penetration of the highlands, to the extent that they prohibited even the burial of Muslims there. Isolated acts of defiance like the murder of a tax collector occurred, but when the two princes were summoned before Harun al-Rashid in 805 they promised loyalty and the payment of a tax, and were forced to leave their sons behind as hostages for four years.\n\nAfter his death in 817, Sharvin was succeeded by his grandson, Shahriyar I, who managed to evict the Karenid Mazyar from his own realm. Mazyar fled to the court of the Caliph al-Ma'mun, became a Muslim and in 822/23 returned with the support of the Abbasid governor to exact revenge: Shahriyar's son and successor, Shapur, was defeated and killed, and Mazyar united the highlands under his own rule. His growing power brought him into conflict with the Muslim settlers at Amul, but he was able to take the city and receive acknowledgement of his rule over all of Tabaristan from the caliphal court. Eventually, however, he quarreled with Abdallah ibn Tahir, and in 839, he was captured by the Tahirids, who now took over control of Tabaristan. The Bavandids exploited the opportunity to regain their ancestral lands: Shapur's brother, Qarin I, assisted the Tahirids against Mazyar, and was rewarded with his brother's lands and royal title. In 842, he converted to Islam.\n\nThis period saw the rapid Islamization of the native population of Tabaristan. Although the majority accepted Sunni Islam, Shi'ism also spread, especially in Amul and the neighboruing areas of Astarabad and Gurgan. Thus, in 864, a Zaydi Alid, Hasan ibn Zayd, was invited to Tabaristan, and with support from the Daylamites took over control of the province. The Bavandids remained steadfastly opposed to the Alid dynasty throughout its existence, and Qarin's grandson Rustam I was to pay with his life for this: in 895, the Alid supporter Rafi' ibn Harthama tortured him to death. The Sunni Samanids drove out the Alids in 900, but in 914 a relative of Hasan ibn Zayd, Hasan al-Utrush, managed to drive out the Samanids, restore Alid control over the province, and force even the Bavandids and Karinids to accept his rule.\n\nThe history of the Bavandis is detailed in the works of Ibn Isfandiar and Mar'ashi which belong to the genre of local histories that gained popularity in Iran after 1000 AD. We know that they were related to the Ziyarid dynasty, through the marriage of Mardanshah, the father of Ziyar, to the daughter of one of the Bavandi kings. The prominence of the Bavandi kings apparently continued throughout the Seljuq and Mongol period. One of their greatest kings, Shah Ghazi Rustam V, is reported to have seriously defeated the Ismailis who were gaining prominence in Tabaristan and to have made significant progress in consolidating power in the Caspian provinces.\n\nAfter the Mongol conquest, the Bavandis continued to rule as local strongmen of Tabaristan and sometimes Dailam. Their power was finally brought down around 1350 when Kiya Afrasiyab of the Afrasiyab dynasty, themselves an offshoot of the Bavandis, managed to kill Hasan II of Tabaristan, the last of the mainline Bavandi kings.\n\nThe Bavandids stressed their lineage with the Sasanian Empire. As late as the early 13th-century, their coronation customs were assumed to go back to the remote past, as depicted thorough by the 13th-century Iranian historian Ibn Isfandiyar;\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1300717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1300717", "title": "Bhonsle", "text": "Bhonsle\n\nThe Bhonsle (or Bhonsale, Bhosale, Bhosle) are a prominent group within the Maratha clan system. Traditionally a warrior clan, some members served as rulers of several states in India, the most prominent being Shivaji, the founder of the Maratha Empire which displaced the Mughal Empire as the preeminent political and military power in India. His successors ruled as Chhatrapatis (emperors) from their capital at Satara, although \"de facto\" rule of the empire passed to the Peshwas, the Maratha hereditary chief ministers, during the reign of Shahu I. In addition to the Bhonsle Chhatrapatis of Satara, rulers of the Bhonsle clan established themselves as junior branch of Chhatrapatis at Kolhapur, and as Maharajas of Nagpur in modern-day Maharashtra in the 18th century.\n\nAfter the British defeat of the Marathas in the Third Anglo-Maratha War in 1818, the four Bhonsle dynasties continued as rulers of their princely states, acknowledging British suzerainty while retaining local autonomy. The states of Satara, Thanjavur, and Nagpur came under direct British rule in the mid-nineteenth century when their rulers died without male heirs, although the British allowed titular adoptions to take place. Kolhapur state remained autonomous until India's independence in 1947, when the rulers acceded to the Indian government.\n\nAkkalkot State, Sawantwadi State and Barshi were amongst other prominent states ruled by the Bhonsles.\n\nBhonsles claim their origin from Suryavanshi Sisodia Rajputs. Sources supporting this claim include Pandit Ganga Bhatt of Varanasi, who had been hired for the purpose by Shivaji, and in 1674 presented a genealogy tracing Shivaji's ancestry to the Sisodias of Mewar.\n\nScholars such as Jadunath Sarkar have contested Shivaji's Rajput origin, saying that it was a fabrication required during his coronation. Others, such as C. V. Vaidya, do not accept this and point to works authored before his rise that refer to the connection. For example, the \"Radha Madhav Vilas Champu\", written by the poet Jayaram, mentions Shahaji Bhonsle, the father of Shivaji, as being a Sisodia Rajput and Shahji's letter to Sultan Adil Shah in 1641 refers to the Bhonsle as Rajputs. The discovery of Persian-language firmans in the 1920s also dented the claim of those such as Sarkar. The documents bear seals and tughra of Bahmani and Adil Shahi sultans and establish the direct descent of Shivaji and Ghorpade with that of Sisodia of Chittor.\n\n\nOther maharajas of the dynasty include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8718425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8718425", "title": "Circumcision", "text": "Circumcision\n\nMale circumcision is the removal of the foreskin from the human penis. In the most common procedure, the foreskin is opened, adhesions are removed, and the foreskin is separated from the glans. After that, a circumcision device may be placed and then the foreskin is cut off. Topical or locally injected anesthesia is sometimes used to reduce pain and physiologic stress. For adults and children, general anesthesia is an option and the procedure may be performed without a specialized circumcision device. The procedure is most often an elective surgery performed on babies and children for religious or cultural reasons. In other cases it may be done as a treatment for certain medical conditions or for preventative reasons. Medically it is a treatment option for problematic cases of phimosis, balanoposthitis that does not resolve with other treatments, and chronic urinary tract infections (UTIs). It is contraindicated in cases of certain genital structure abnormalities or poor general health.\nThe positions of the world's major medical organizations range from considering elective circumcision of babies and children as having no benefit and significant risks to having a modest health benefit that outweighs small risks. No major medical organization recommends either universal circumcision of all males or banning the procedure. Ethical and legal questions regarding informed consent and human rights have been raised over the circumcision of babies and children for non-medical reasons; for these reasons the procedure is controversial.\nMale circumcision reduces the risk of HIV infection among heterosexual men in sub-Saharan Africa. Therefore, the WHO recommends considering circumcision as part of a comprehensive HIV prevention program in areas with high rates of HIV such as sub-Saharan Africa. There is also some evidence for circumcision reducing HIV infection risk for men who have sex with men. The effectiveness of using circumcision to prevent HIV in the developed world is unclear. Circumcision is associated with reduced rates of cancer causing forms of human papillomavirus (HPV), UTIs, and cancer of the penis. Prevention of those conditions is not a justification for routine circumcision of infants. Studies of other sexually transmitted infections are suggestive that circumcision is protective. A 2010 review found circumcisions performed by medical providers to have a typical complication rate of 1.5% for babies and 6% for older children, with few cases of severe complications. Bleeding, infection, and the removal of either too much or too little foreskin are the most common complications cited. Complication rates are higher when the procedure is performed by an inexperienced operator, in unsterile conditions, or in older children. Circumcision does not appear to have a negative impact on sexual function.\nAn estimated one-third of males worldwide are circumcised. The procedure is most common among Muslims and Jews (where it is near-universal for religious reasons), in the United States and parts of Southeast Asia and Africa. It is relatively rare in Europe, Latin America, parts of Southern Africa, and most of Asia. The origin of circumcision is not known with certainty; the oldest documented evidence for it comes from ancient Egypt. Various theories have been proposed as to its origin including as a religious sacrifice and as a rite of passage marking a boy's entrance into adulthood. It is part of religious law in Judaism and is an established practice in Islam, Coptic Christianity, and the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. The word circumcision is from Latin \"circumcidere\", meaning \"to cut around\". \n\nNeonatal circumcision is usually elected by the parents for non-medical reasons, such as religious beliefs or personal preferences, possibly driven by societal norms. Outside the parts of Africa with high prevalence of HIV/AIDS, the positions of the world's major medical organizations on non-therapeutic neonatal circumcision range from considering it as having a modest net health benefit that outweighs small risks to viewing it as having no benefit with significant risks for harm. No major medical organization recommends universal neonatal circumcision, and no major medical organization calls for banning it either. The Royal Dutch Medical Association, which expresses some of the strongest opposition to routine neonatal circumcision, argues that while there are valid reasons for banning it, doing so could lead parents who insist on the procedure to turn to poorly trained practitioners instead of medical professionals. This argument to keep the procedure within the purview of medical professionals is found across all major medical organizations. In addition, the organizations advise medical professionals to yield to some degree to parental preferences, which are commonly based upon cultural or religious views, in their decision to agree to circumcise. The Danish College of General Practitioners states that circumcision should \"only [be done] when medically needed, otherwise it is a case of mutilation.\"\n\nCircumcision may be used to treat pathological phimosis, refractory balanoposthitis and chronic or recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs). The World Health Organization promotes circumcision to prevent female-to-male HIV transmission in countries with high rates of HIV. The International AIDS Society-USA also suggests circumcision be discussed with MSM who engage in primarily insertive anal sex, especially in areas where HIV is common.\n\nThe finding that circumcision significantly reduces female-to-male HIV transmission has prompted medical organizations serving communities affected by endemic HIV/AIDS to promote circumcision as an additional method of controlling the spread of HIV. The World Health Organization (WHO) and UNAIDS (2007) recommend circumcision as part of a comprehensive program for prevention of HIV transmission in areas with high endemic rates of HIV, as long as the program includes \"informed consent, confidentiality, and absence of coercion\".\n\nCircumcision is contraindicated in infants with certain genital structure abnormalities, such as a misplaced urethral opening (as in hypospadias and epispadias), curvature of the head of the penis (chordee), or ambiguous genitalia, because the foreskin may be needed for reconstructive surgery. Circumcision is contraindicated in premature infants and those who are not clinically stable and in good health. If an individual, child or adult, is known to have or has a family history of serious bleeding disorders (hemophilia), it is recommended that the blood be checked for normal coagulation properties before the procedure is attempted.\n\nThe foreskin extends out from the base of the glans and covers the glans when the penis is flaccid. Proposed theories for the purpose of the foreskin are that it serves to protect the penis as the fetus develops in the mother's womb, that it helps to preserve moisture in the glans, and that it improves sexual pleasure. The foreskin may also be a pathway of infection for certain diseases. Circumcision removes the foreskin at its attachment to the base of the glans.\n\nFor infant circumcision, devices such as the Gomco clamp, Plastibell and Mogen clamp are commonly used in the USA. These follow the same basic procedure. First, the amount of foreskin to be removed is estimated. The practitioner opens the foreskin via the preputial orifice to reveal the glans underneath and ensures it is normal before bluntly separating the inner lining of the foreskin (preputial epithelium) from its attachment to the glans. The practitioner then places the circumcision device (this sometimes requires a dorsal slit), which remains until blood flow has stopped. Finally, the foreskin is amputated. For older babies and adults, circumcision is often performed surgically without specialized instruments, and alternatives such Unicirc, Prepex or the Shang ring are available.\n\nThe circumcision procedure causes pain, and for neonates this pain may interfere with mother-infant interaction or cause other behavioral changes, so the use of analgesia is advocated. Ordinary procedural pain may be managed in pharmacological and non-pharmacological ways. Pharmacological methods, such as localized or regional pain-blocking injections and topical analgesic creams, are safe and effective. The ring block and dorsal penile nerve block (DPNB) are the most effective at reducing pain, and the ring block may be more effective than the DPNB. They are more effective than EMLA (eutectic mixture of local anesthetics) cream, which is more effective than a placebo. Topical creams have been found to irritate the skin of low birth weight infants, so penile nerve block techniques are recommended in this group.\n\nFor infants, non-pharmacological methods such as the use of a comfortable, padded chair and a sucrose or non-sucrose pacifier are more effective at reducing pain than a placebo, but the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) states that such methods are insufficient alone and should be used to supplement more effective techniques. A quicker procedure reduces duration of pain; use of the Mogen clamp was found to result in a shorter procedure time and less pain-induced stress than the use of the Gomco clamp or the Plastibell. The available evidence does not indicate that post-procedure pain management is needed. For adults, topical anesthesia, ring block, dorsal penile nerve block (DPNB) and general anesthesia are all options, and the procedure requires four to six weeks of abstinence from masturbation or intercourse to allow the wound to heal.\n\nThere is strong evidence that circumcision reduces the risk of men acquiring HIV infection in areas of the world with high rates of HIV. Evidence among heterosexual men in sub-Saharan Africa shows an absolute decrease in risk of 1.8% which is a relative decrease of between 38 percent and 66 percent over two years, and in this population studies rate it cost effective. Whether it is of benefit in developed countries is undetermined.\n\nThere are plausible explanations based on human biology for how circumcision can decrease the likelihood of female-to-male HIV transmission. The superficial skin layers of the penis contain Langerhans cells, which are targeted by HIV; removing the foreskin reduces the number of these cells. When an uncircumcised penis is erect during intercourse, any small tears on the inner surface of the foreskin come into direct contact with the vaginal walls, providing a pathway for transmission. When an uncircumcised penis is flaccid, the pocket between the inside of the foreskin and the head of the penis provides an environment conducive to pathogen survival; circumcision eliminates this pocket. Some experimental evidence has been provided to support these theories.\n\nThe WHO and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) state that male circumcision is an efficacious intervention for HIV prevention, but should be carried out by well-trained medical professionals and under conditions of informed consent (parents' consent for their infant boys). The WHO has judged circumcision to be a cost-effective public health intervention against the spread of HIV in Africa, although not necessarily more cost-effective than condoms. The joint WHO/UNAIDS recommendation also notes that circumcision only provides partial protection from HIV and should not replace known methods of HIV prevention.\n\nMale circumcision provides only indirect HIV protection for heterosexual women. It is unknown whether or not circumcision reduces transmission when men engage in anal sex with a female partner. Some evidence supports its effectiveness at reducing HIV risk in men who have sex with men.\n\nHuman papillomavirus (HPV) is the most commonly transmitted sexually transmitted infection, affecting both men and women. While most infections are asymptomatic and are cleared by the immune system, some types of the virus cause genital warts, and other types, if untreated, cause various forms of cancer, including cervical cancer, and penile cancer. Genital warts and cervical cancer are the two most common problems resulting from HPV.\n\nCircumcision is associated with a reduced prevalence of oncogenic types of HPV infection, meaning that a randomly selected circumcised man is less likely to be found infected with cancer-causing types of HPV than an uncircumcised man. It also decreases the likelihood of multiple infections. No strong evidence indicates that it reduces the rate of new HPV infection, but the procedure is associated with increased clearance of the virus by the body, which can account for the finding of reduced prevalence.\n\nAlthough genital warts are caused by a type of HPV, there is no statistically significant relationship between being circumcised and the presence of genital warts.\n\nStudies evaluating the effect of circumcision on the rates of other sexually transmitted infections have generally, found it to be protective. A 2006 meta-analysis found that circumcision was associated with lower rates of syphilis, chancroid and possibly genital herpes. A 2010 review found that circumcision reduced the incidence of HSV-2 (herpes simplex virus, type 2) infections by 28%. The researchers found mixed results for protection against trichomonas vaginalis and chlamydia trachomatis and no evidence of protection against gonorrhea or syphilis. It may also possibly protect against syphilis in men who have sex with men.\n\nPhimosis is the inability to retract the foreskin over the glans penis. At birth, the foreskin cannot be retracted due to adhesions between the foreskin and glans, and this is considered normal (physiological phimosis). Over time the foreskin naturally separates from the glans, and a majority of boys are able to retract the foreskin by age three. Less than one percent are still having problems at age 18. If the inability to do so becomes problematic (pathological phimosis) circumcision is a treatment option. This pathological phimosis may be due to scarring from the skin disease balanitis xerotica obliterans (BXO), repeated episodes of balanoposthitis or forced retraction of the foreskin. Steroid creams are also a reasonable option and may prevent the need for surgery including in those with mild BXO. The procedure may also be used to prevent the development of phimosis. Phimosis is also a complication that can result from circumcision.\n\nAn inflammation of the glans penis and foreskin is called balanoposthitis, and the condition affecting the glans alone is called balanitis. Most cases of these conditions occur in uncircumcised males, affecting 411% of that group. The moist, warm space underneath the foreskin is thought to facilitate the growth of pathogens, particularly when hygiene is poor. Yeasts, especially \"Candida albicans\", are the most common penile infection and are rarely identified in samples taken from circumcised males. Both conditions are usually treated with topical antibiotics (metronidazole cream) and antifungals (clotrimazole cream) or low-potency steroid creams. Circumcision is a treatment option for refractory or recurrent balanoposthitis, but in recent years the availability of the other treatments have made it less necessary.\n\nA UTI affects parts of the urinary system including the urethra, bladder, and kidneys. There is about a one percent risk of UTIs in boys under two years of age, and the majority of incidents occur in the first year of life. There is good but not ideal evidence that circumcision of babies reduces the incidence of UTIs in boys under two years of age, and there is fair evidence that the reduction in incidence is by a factor of 310 times (100 circumcisions prevents one UTI). Circumcision is most likely to benefit boys who have a high risk of UTIs due to anatomical defects, and may be used to treat recurrent UTIs.\n\nThere is a plausible biological explanation for the reduction in UTI risk after circumcision. The orifice through which urine passes at the tip of the penis (the urinary meatus) hosts more urinary system disease-causing bacteria in uncircumcised boys than in circumcised boys, especially in those under six months of age. As these bacteria are a risk factor for UTIs, circumcision may reduce the risk of UTIs through a decrease in the bacteria population.\n\nCircumcision has a protective effect against the risks of penile cancer in men, and cervical cancer in the female sexual partners of heterosexual men. Penile cancer is rare, with about 1 new case per 100,000 people per year in developed countries and higher incidence rates per 100,000 in sub-Saharan Africa (for example: 1.6 in Zimbabwe, 2.7 in Uganda and 3.2 in Swaziland). The number of new cases is also high in certain South American countries such as Paraguay and Uruguay at about 4.3 per 100,000. It is least common in Israeli Jews—0.1 per 100,000—related in part to the very high rate of circumcision of babies.\n\nPenile cancer development can be detected in the carcinoma \"in situ\" (CIS) cancerous precursor stage and at the more advanced invasive squamous cell carcinoma stage. Childhood or adolescent circumcision is associated with a reduced risk of invasive squamous cell carcinoma in particular. There is an association between adult circumcision and an increased risk of invasive penile cancer; this is believed to be from men being circumcised as a treatment for penile cancer or a condition that is a precursor to cancer rather than a consequence of circumcision itself. Penile cancer has been observed to be nearly eliminated in populations of males circumcised neonatally.\n\nImportant risk factors for penile cancer include phimosis and HPV infection, both of which are mitigated by circumcision. The mitigating effect circumcision has on the risk factor introduced by the possibility of phimosis is secondary, in that the removal of the foreskin eliminates the possibility of phimosis. This can be inferred from study results that show uncircumcised men with no history of phimosis are equally likely to have penile cancer as circumcised men. Circumcision is also associated with a reduced prevalence of cancer-causing types of HPV in men and a reduced risk of cervical cancer (which is caused by a type of HPV) in female partners of men. As penile cancer is rare (and may become increasingly rare as HPV vaccination rates rise), and circumcision has risks, the practice is not considered to be valuable solely as a prophylactic measure against penile cancer in the United States.\n\nThere is some evidence that circumcision is associated with lower risk of prostate cancer. A 2015 meta-analysis found a reduced risk of prostate cancer associated with circumcision in black men. A 2016 meta-analysis found that men with prostate cancer were less likely to be circumcised.\n\nA 2017 systematic review found consistent evidence that male circumcision prior to heterosexual contact was associated with a decreased risk of cervical cancer, cervical dysplasia, HSV-2, chlamydia, and syphilis among women. The evidence was less consistent in regards to the potential association of circumcision with women's risk of HPV and HIV.\n\nNeonatal circumcision is generally safe when done by an experienced practitioner. The most common acute complications are bleeding, infection and the removal of either too much or too little foreskin. These complications occur in approximately 0.12% of procedures, and constitute the vast majority of all acute circumcision complications in the United States. Minor complications are reported to occur in three percent of procedures. Severe complications are rare. A specific complication rate is difficult to determine due to scant data on complications and inconsistencies in their classification. Complication rates are greater when the procedure is performed by an inexperienced operator, in unsterile conditions, or when the child is at an older age. Significant acute complications happen rarely, occurring in about 1 in 500 newborn procedures in the United States. Severe to catastrophic complications, including death, are so rare that they are reported only as individual case reports. Other possible complications include buried penis, chordee, phimosis, skin bridges, urethral fistulas, and meatal stenosis. These complications may be avoided with proper technique, and are most often treatable without requiring a hospital visit.\n\nThe circumcision procedure may carry the risks of heightened pain response for newborns and dissatisfaction with the result. Newborns that experience pain due to being circumcised have different responses to vaccines given afterwards, with higher pain scores observed. For adult men who have been circumcised, there is a risk that the circumcision scar may be tender.\n\nThe highest quality evidence indicates that circumcision does not decrease the sensitivity of the penis, harm sexual function or reduce sexual satisfaction. A 2013 systematic review found that circumcision did not appear to adversely affect sexual desire, pain with intercourse, premature ejaculation, time until ejaculation, erectile dysfunction or difficulties with orgasm. However, the study found that the existing evidence is not very good. Another 2013 systematic review found that the highest-quality studies reported no adverse effects of circumcision on sexual function, sensitivity, sensation or satisfaction. A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis found that circumcision did not affect premature ejaculation.\n\nBehavioral effects have been observed following infant circumcision including changes in sleep patterns, irritability, changes in feeding, and parental bonding. Some men who were circumcised as an infant involuntarily described their feelings about the procedure using the terms \"violation, torture, mutilation and sexual assault\".\n\nCircumcision is one of the world's most widely performed procedures. Approximately 37% to 39% of males worldwide are circumcised, about half for religious or cultural reasons. It is most often practiced between infancy and the early twenties. The WHO estimated in 2007 that 664,500,000 males aged 15 and over were circumcised (30–33% global prevalence), almost 70% of whom were Muslim. Circumcision is most common in the Muslim world, Israel, South Korea, the United States and parts of Southeast Asia and Africa. It is relatively rare in Europe, Latin America, parts of Southern Africa and Oceania and most of Asia. Prevalence is near-universal in the Middle East and Central Asia. Non-religious circumcision in Asia, outside of the Republic of Korea and the Philippines, is fairly rare, and prevalence is generally low (less than 20%) across Europe. Estimates for individual countries include Taiwan at 9% and Australia 58.7%. Prevalence in the United States and Canada is estimated at 75% and 30% respectively. Prevalence in Africa varies from less than 20% in some southern African countries to near universal in North and West Africa.\n\nThe rates of routine neonatal circumcision over time have varied significantly by country. In the United States, hospital discharge surveys estimated rates at 64.7% in the year 1980, 59.0% in the year 1990, 62.4% in the year 2000, and 58.3% in the year 2010. These estimates are lower than the overall circumcision rates, as they do not account for non-hospital circumcisions, or for procedures performed for medical or cosmetic reasons later in life; community surveys have reported higher neonatal circumcision. Canada has seen a slow decline since the early 1970s, possibly influenced by statements from the AAP and the Canadian Pediatric Society issued in the 1970s saying that the procedure was not medically indicated. In Australia, the rate declined in the 1970s and 80s, but has been increasing slowly as of 2004. In the United Kingdom, rates are likely to have been 20–30% in the 1940s but declined in the late 40s. One possible reason may have been a 1949 British Medical Journal article which stated that there was no medical reason for the general circumcision of babies. The overall prevalence of circumcision in South Korea has increased markedly in the second half of the 20th century, rising from near zero around 1950 to about 60% in 2000, with the most significant jumps in the last two decades of that time period. This is probably due to the influence of the United States, which established a trusteeship for the country following World War II.\n\nMedical organizations can affect the neonatal circumcision rate of a country by influencing whether the costs of the procedure are borne by the parents or are covered by insurance or a national health care system. Policies that require the costs to be paid by the parents yield lower neonatal circumcision rates. The decline in the rates in the UK is one example; another is that in the United States, the individual states where insurance or Medicaid covers the costs have higher rates. Changes to policy are driven by the results of new research, and moderated by the politics, demographics, and culture of the communities.\n\nCircumcision is the world's oldest planned surgical procedure, suggested by anatomist and hyperdiffusionist historian Grafton Elliot Smith to be over 15,000 years old, pre-dating recorded history. There is no firm consensus as to how it came to be practiced worldwide. One theory is that it began in one geographic area and spread from there; another is that several different cultural groups began its practice independently. In his 1891 work \"History of Circumcision\", physician Peter Charles Remondino suggested that it began as a less severe form of emasculating a captured enemy: penectomy or castration would likely have been fatal, while some form of circumcision would permanently mark the defeated yet leave him alive to serve as a slave.\n\nThe history of the migration and evolution of the practice of circumcision is followed mainly through the cultures and peoples in two separate regions. In the lands south and east of the Mediterranean, starting with Sudan and Ethiopia, the procedure was practiced by the ancient Egyptians and the Semites, and then by the Jews and Muslims, with whom the practice travelled to and was adopted by the Bantu Africans. In Oceania, circumcision is practiced by the Australian Aborigines and Polynesians. There is also evidence that circumcision was practiced among the Aztec and Mayan civilizations in the Americas, but little detail is available about its history.\n\nEvidence suggests that circumcision was practiced in the Arabian Peninsula by the 4th millennium BCE, when the Sumerians and the Semites moved into the area that is modern-day Iraq. The earliest historical record of circumcision comes from Egypt, in the form of an image of the circumcision of an adult carved into the tomb of Ankh-Mahor at Saqqara, dating to about 24002300 BCE. Circumcision was done by the Egyptians possibly for hygienic reasons, but also was part of their obsession with purity and was associated with spiritual and intellectual development. No well-accepted theory explains the significance of circumcision to the Egyptians, but it appears to have been endowed with great honor and importance as a rite of passage into adulthood, performed in a public ceremony emphasizing the continuation of family generations and fertility. It may have been a mark of distinction for the elite: the Egyptian \"Book of the Dead\" describes the sun god Ra as having circumcised himself.\n\nThough secular scholars consider the story to be literary and not historical, circumcision features prominently in the Hebrew Bible. The narrative in Genesis chapter 17 describes the circumcision of Abraham and his relatives and slaves. In the same chapter, Abraham's descendants are commanded to circumcise their sons on the eighth day of life as part of a covenant with God.\n\nIn addition to proposing that circumcision was taken up by the Israelites purely as a religious mandate, scholars have suggested that Judaism's patriarchs and their followers adopted circumcision to make penile hygiene easier in hot, sandy climates; as a rite of passage into adulthood; or as a form of blood sacrifice.\n\nAlexander the Great conquered the Middle East in the 4th century BCE, and in the following centuries ancient Greek cultures and values came to the Middle East. The Greeks abhorred circumcision, making life for circumcised Jews living among the Greeks (and later the Romans) very difficult. Antiochus Epiphanes outlawed circumcision, as did Hadrian, which helped cause the Bar Kokhba revolt. During this period in history, Jewish circumcision called for the removal of only a part of the prepuce, and some Hellenized Jews attempted to look uncircumcised by stretching the extant parts of their foreskins. This was considered by the Jewish leaders to be a serious problem, and during the 2nd century CE they changed the requirements of Jewish circumcision to call for the complete removal of the foreskin, emphasizing the Jewish view of circumcision as intended to be not just the fulfillment of a Biblical commandment but also an essential and permanent mark of membership in a people.\nA narrative in the Christian Gospel of Luke makes a brief mention of the circumcision of Jesus, but the subject of physical circumcision itself is not part of the received teachings of Jesus. Paul the Apostle reinterpreted circumcision as a spiritual concept, arguing the physical one to be unnecessary for Gentile converts to Christianity. The teaching that physical circumcision was unnecessary for membership in a divine covenant was instrumental in the separation of Christianity from Judaism. Although it is not explicitly mentioned in the Quran (early 7th century CE), circumcision is considered essential to Islam, and it is nearly universally performed among Muslims. The practice of circumcision spread across the Middle East, North Africa, and Southern Europe with Islam.\n\nGenghis Khan, and the following Yuan Emperors in China forbade Islamic practices such as halal butchering and circumcision. This led Chinese Muslims to eventually take an active part in rebelling against the Mongols and installing the more tolerant Ming Dynasty.\n\nThe practice of circumcision is thought to have been brought to the Bantu-speaking tribes of Africa by either the Jews after one of their many expulsions from European countries, or by Muslim Moors escaping after the 1492 conquest of Spain. In the second half of the 1st millennium CE, inhabitants from the North East of Africa moved south and encountered groups from Arabia, the Middle East, and West Africa. These people moved south and formed what is known today as the Bantu. Bantu tribes were observed to be upholding what was described as Jewish law, including circumcision, in the 16th century. Circumcision and elements of Jewish dietary restrictions are still found among Bantu tribes.\n\nCircumcision is practiced by some groups amongst Australian Aboriginal peoples, Polynesians, and Native Americans. Little information is available about the origins and history of circumcision among these peoples, compared to circumcision in the Middle East.\n\nFor Aboriginal Australians and Polynesians, circumcision likely started as a blood sacrifice and a test of bravery and became an initiation rite with attendant instruction in manhood in more recent centuries. Often seashells were used to remove the foreskin, and the bleeding was stopped with eucalyptus smoke.\n\nChristopher Columbus reported circumcision being practiced by Native Americans. It was also practiced by the Incas, Aztecs, and Mayans. It probably started among South American tribes as a blood sacrifice or ritual mutilation to test bravery and endurance, and its use later evolved into a rite of initiation.\n\nCircumcision did not become a common medical procedure in the Anglophone world until the late 19th century. At that time, British and American doctors began recommending it primarily as a deterrent to masturbation. Prior to the 20th century, masturbation was believed to be the cause of a wide range of physical and mental illnesses including epilepsy, paralysis, impotence, gonorrhea, tuberculosis, feeblemindedness, and insanity. In 1855, motivated in part by an interest in promoting circumcision to reduce masturbation, English physician Jonathan Hutchinson published his findings that Jews had a lower prevalence of certain venereal diseases. While pursuing a successful career as a general practitioner, Hutchinson went on to advocate circumcision for health reasons for the next fifty years, and eventually earned a knighthood for his overall contributions to medicine. In America, one of the first modern physicians to advocate the procedure was Lewis Sayre, a founder of the American Medical Association. In 1870, Sayre began using circumcision as a purported cure for several cases of young boys diagnosed with paralysis or significant motor problems. He thought the procedure ameliorated such problems based on a \"reflex neurosis\" theory of disease, which held that excessive stimulation of the genitals was a disturbance to the equilibrium of the nervous system and a cause of systemic problems. The use of circumcision to promote good health also fit in with the germ theory of disease during that time, which saw the foreskin as being filled with infection-causing smegma (a mixture of shed skin cells and oils). Sayre published works on the subject and promoted it energetically in speeches. Contemporary physicians picked up on Sayre's new treatment, which they believed could prevent or cure a wide-ranging array of medical problems and social ills. Its popularity spread with publications such as Peter Charles Remondino's \"History of Circumcision\". By the turn of the century, in both America and Great Britain, infant circumcision was near universally recommended. David Gollaher proposes that \"Americans found circumcision appealing not merely on medical grounds, but also for its connotations of science, health, and cleanliness—newly important class distinctions\" in a country where 17 million immigrants arrived between 1890 and 1914.\n\nAfter the end of World War II, Britain moved to a nationalized health care system, and so looked to ensure that each medical procedure covered by the new system was cost-effective and the procedure for non-medical reasons was not covered by the national healthcare system. Douglas Gairdner's 1949 article \"The Fate of the Foreskin\" argued that the evidence available at that time showed that the risks outweighed the known benefits. Circumcision rates dropped in Britain and in the rest of Europe. In the 1970s, national medical associations in Australia and Canada issued recommendations against routine infant circumcision, leading to drops in the rates of both of those countries. The United States made similar statements in the 1970s, but stopped short of recommending against it—simply stating that it has no medical benefit. Since then they have amended their policy statements several times with the current recommendation being that the benefits outweigh the risks, but they do not recommend it routinely.\n\nAn association between circumcision and reduced heterosexual HIV infection rates was suggested in 1986. Experimental evidence was needed to establish a causal relationship, so three randomized controlled trials were commissioned as a means to reduce the effect of any confounding factors. Trials took place in South Africa, Kenya and Uganda. All three trials were stopped early by their monitoring boards on ethical grounds because those in the circumcised group had a lower rate of HIV contraction than the control group. Subsequently, the World Health Organization promoted circumcision in high-risk populations as part of an overall program to reduce the spread of HIV, although some have challenged the validity of the African randomized controlled trials, prompting a number of researchers to question the effectiveness of circumcision as an HIV prevention strategy. The Male Circumcision Clearinghouse website was formed in 2009 by WHO, UNAIDS, FHI and AVAC to provide current evidence-based guidance, information, and resources to support the delivery of safe male circumcision services in countries that choose to scale up the procedure as one component of comprehensive HIV prevention services.\n\nIn some cultures, males are generally required to be circumcised shortly after birth, during childhood or around puberty as part of a rite of passage. Circumcision is commonly practiced in the Jewish and Islamic faiths.\n\nCircumcision is very important to most branches of Judaism, with over 90% of male adherents having the procedure performed as a religious obligation. The basis for its observance is found in the Torah of the Hebrew Bible, in Genesis chapter 17, in which a covenant of circumcision is made with Abraham and his descendants. Jewish circumcision is part of the \"brit milah\" ritual, to be performed by a specialist ritual circumciser (a \"mohel\") on the eighth day of a newborn son's life (with certain exceptions for poor health). Jewish law requires that the circumcision leaves the glans bare when the penis is flaccid. Converts to Conservative and Orthodox Judaism must also be circumcised; those who are already circumcised undergo a symbolic circumcision ritual. Circumcision is not required by Judaism for one to be considered Jewish, but some adherents foresee serious negative spiritual consequences if it is neglected.\n\nAccording to traditional Jewish law, in the absence of a grown free Jewish male expert, a woman, a slave, or a child, that has the required skills, is also authorized to perform the circumcision, provided that she or he is Jewish. However, most streams of non-Orthodox Judaism allow female mohels, called \"mohalot\" (, the plural of \"mohelet\", feminine of \"mohel\"), without restriction. In 1984, Deborah Cohen became the first certified Reform mohelet; she was certified by the Berit Mila program of Reform Judaism.\n\nSome contemporary Jews in the United States choose not to circumcise their sons. They are assisted by a small number of Reform and Reconstructionist rabbis, and have developed a welcoming ceremony that they call the \"brit shalom\" (\"Covenant [of] Peace\") for such children, also accepted by Humanistic Judaism.\n\nThis ceremony of \"brit shalom\" is not officially approved of by the Reform or Reconstructionist rabbinical organizations, who make the recommendation that male infants should be circumcised, though the issue of converts remains controversial and circumcision of converts is not mandatory in either movement.\n\nAlthough there is some debate within Islam over whether it is a religious requirement, circumcision (called \"khitan\") is practiced nearly universally by Muslim males. Islam bases its practice of circumcision on the Genesis 17 narrative, the same Biblical chapter referred to by Jews. The procedure is not explicitly mentioned in the Quran, however, it is a tradition established by Islam's prophet Muhammad directly (following Abraham), and so its practice is considered a \"sunnah\" (prophet's tradition) and is very important in Islam. For Muslims, circumcision is also a matter of cleanliness, purification and control over one's baser self (\"nafs\"). There is no agreement across the many Islamic communities about the age at which circumcision should be performed. It may be done from soon after birth up to about age 15; most often it is performed at around six to seven years of age. The timing can correspond with the boy's completion of his recitation of the whole Quran, with a coming-of-age event such as taking on the responsibility of daily prayer or betrothal. Circumcision may be celebrated with an associated family or community event. Circumcision is recommended for, but is not required of, converts to Islam.\n\nThe New Testament chapter Acts 15 records that Christianity did not require circumcision. In 1442, the Catholic Church banned the practice of religious circumcision in the 11th Council of Florence and currently maintains a neutral position on the practice of non-religious circumcision. Coptic Christians practice circumcision as a rite of passage. The Ethiopian Orthodox Church calls for circumcision, with near-universal prevalence among Orthodox men in Ethiopia. In South Africa, some Christian churches disapprove of the practice while others require it of their members.\n\nCertain African cultural groups, such as the Yoruba and the Igbo of Nigeria, customarily circumcise their infant sons. The procedure is also practiced by some cultural groups or individual family lines in the Sudan, Zaire, Uganda and in southern Africa. For some of these groups, circumcision appears to be purely cultural, done with no particular religious significance or intention to distinguish members of a group. For others, circumcision might be done for purification, or it may be interpreted as a mark of subjugation. Among these groups, even when circumcision is done for reasons of tradition, it is often done in hospitals. The Maasai people who live predominantly in Kenya and Tanzania, use circumcision as a rite of passage. It's also used for distinguished age groups. This is usually done after every fifteen years where a new \"age set\" are formed. The new members are to undergo initiation at the same time. Whenever new age groups are initiated, they will become novice warriors and replace the previous group. The new initiates will be given a unique name that will be an important marker of the history of the Maasai. No anesthesia is used and initiates have to endure the pain or else young boy will be called flinchers. The Xhosa community practice circumcision as a sacrifice. In doing so, young boys will announce for their family member when they are ready for circumcision by singing. The sacrifice is the blood spill during the initiation procedure. Young boys will be considered an \"outsiders\" unless they undergo circumcision. It is not clear how many deaths and injuries result from traditional circumcisions which occur outside of hospitals.\n\nSome Australian Aborigines use circumcision as a test of bravery and self-control as a part of a rite of passage into manhood, which results in full societal and ceremonial membership. It may be accompanied by body scarification and the removal of teeth, and may be followed later by penile subincision. Circumcision is one of many trials and ceremonies required before a youth is considered to have become knowledgeable enough to maintain and pass on the cultural traditions. During these trials, the maturing youth bonds in solidarity with the men. Circumcision is also strongly associated with a man's family, and it is part of the process required to prepare a man to take a wife and produce his own family.\n\nIn the Philippines, circumcision known as \"tuli\" is sometimes viewed as a rite of passage. About 93% of Filipino men are circumcised.\n\nThere is a long-running and vigorous debate over ethical concerns regarding circumcision, particularly neonatal circumcision for reasons other than intended direct medical benefit. There are three parties involved in the decision to circumcise a minor: the minor as the patient, the parents (or other guardians) and the physician. The physician is bound under the ethical principles of beneficence (promoting well-being) and non-maleficence (\"first, do no harm\"), and so is charged with the responsibility to promote the best interests of the patient while minimizing unnecessary harms. Those involved must weigh the factors of what is in the best interest of the minor against the potential harms of the procedure.\n\nWith a newborn involved, the decision is made more complex due to the principles of respect for autonomy and consent, as a newborn cannot understand or engage in a logical discussion of his own values and best interests. A mentally more mature child can understand the issues involved to some degree, and the physician and parents may elicit input from the child and weigh it appropriately in the decision-making process, although the law may not treat such input as legally informative. Ethicists and legal theorists also state that it is questionable for parents to make a decision for the child that precludes the child from making a different decision for himself later. Such a question can be raised for the decision by the parents either to circumcise or not to circumcise the child.\n\nGenerally, circumcision on a minor is not ethically controversial or legally questionable when there is a clear and pressing medical indication for which it is the accepted best practice to resolve. Where circumcision is the chosen intervention, the physician has an ethical responsibility to ensure the procedure is performed competently and safely to minimize potential harms. Worldwide, most legal jurisdictions do not have specific laws concerning the circumcision of males, but infant circumcision is considered legal under the existing laws in countries such as Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States. A few countries have passed legislation on the procedure: Germany allows non-therapeutic circumcision, while non-religious routine circumcision is illegal in South Africa and Sweden.\n\nThroughout society, circumcision is often considered for reasons other than medical need. Public health advocates of circumcision consider it to have a net benefit, and therefore feel that increasing the circumcision rate is an ethical imperative. They recommend performing the procedure during the neonatal period when it is less expensive and has a lower risk of complications. While studies show there is a modest epidemiological benefit to circumcision, critics argue that the number of circumcisions that would have to be performed would yield an overall negative public health outcome due to the resulting number of complications or other negative effects (such as pain). Pinto (2012) writes \"sober proponents and detractors of circumcision agree that there is no overwhelming medical evidence to support either side.\" This type of cost-benefit analysis is highly dependent on the kinds and frequencies of health problems in the population under discussion and how circumcision affects those health problems.\n\nParents are assumed to have the child's best interests in mind. Ethically, it is imperative that the medical practitioner inform the parents about the benefits and risks of the procedure and obtain informed consent before performing it. Practically, however, many parents come to a decision about circumcising the child before he is born, and a discussion of the benefits and risks of the procedure with a physician has not been shown to have a significant effect on the decision. Some parents request to have their newborn or older child circumcised for non-therapeutic reasons, such as the parents' desires to adhere to family tradition, cultural norms or religious beliefs. In considering such a request, the physician may consider (in addition to any potential medical benefits and harms) such non-medical factors in determining the child's best interests and may ethically perform the procedure. Equally, without a clear medical benefit relative to the potential harms, a physician may take the ethical position that non-medical factors do not contribute enough as benefits to outweigh the potential harms and refuse to perform the procedure. Medical organization such as the British Medical Association state that their member physicians are not obliged to perform the procedure in such situations.\n\nIn 2012 the International NGO Council on Violence against Children identified non-theraputic circumcision of infants and boys, as being among harmful practices that constitute violence against children and violate their rights. The German Academy for Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine (Deutsche Akademie für Kinder- und Jugendmedizin e.V., DAKJ) recommend against routine non-medical infant circumcision. The Royal Dutch Medical Association questions why the ethics regarding male genital alterations should be viewed any differently from female genital alterations.\n\nThe cost-effectiveness of circumcision has been studied to determine whether a policy of circumcising all newborns or a policy of promoting and providing inexpensive or free access to circumcision for all adult men who choose it would result in lower overall societal healthcare costs. As HIV/AIDS is an incurable disease that is expensive to manage, significant effort has been spent studying the cost-effectiveness of circumcision to reduce its spread in parts of Africa that have a relatively high infection rate and low circumcision prevalence. Several analyses have concluded that circumcision programs for adult men in Africa are cost-effective and in some cases are cost-saving. In Rwanda, circumcision has been found to be cost-effective across a wide range of age groups from newborn to adult, with the greatest savings achieved when the procedure is performed in the newborn period due to the lower cost per procedure and greater timeframe for HIV infection protection. Circumcision for the prevention of HIV transmission in adults has also been found to be cost-effective in South Africa, Kenya, and Uganda, with cost savings estimated in the billions of US dollars over 20 years. Hankins \"et al.\" (2011) estimated that a $1.5 billion investment in circumcision for adults in 13 high-priority African countries would yield $16.5 billion in savings.\n\nThe overall cost-effectiveness of neonatal circumcision has also been studied in the United States, which has a different cost setting from Africa in areas such as public health infrastructure, availability of medications, and medical technology and the willingness to use it. A study by the CDC suggests that newborn circumcision would be societally cost-effective in the United States based on circumcision's efficacy against the heterosexual transmission of HIV alone, without considering any other cost benefits. The American Academy of Pediatrics (2012) recommends that neonatal circumcision in the United States be covered by third-party payers such as Medicaid and insurance. A 2014 review that considered reported benefits of circumcision such as reduced risks from HIV, HPV, and HSV-2 stated that circumcision is cost-effective in both the United States and Africa and may result in health care savings. However, a 2014 literature review found that there are significant gaps in the current literature on male and female sexual health that need to be addressed for the literature to be applicable to North American populations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2511587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2511587", "title": "Consultor", "text": "Consultor\n\nA consultor is one who gives counsel, i.e., a counselor.\n\nIn the Catholic Church, it is a specific title for various advisory positions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "388149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=388149", "title": "Dervish", "text": "Dervish\n\nA dervish or darvesh (from , \"Darvīsh\") is someone who claims to approach God rather by virtues and individual experience, than by religious scholarship. Dervishes are often credited with the ability to perform miracles and described with supernatural powers.\n\nIn most Sufi orders, a dervish is known to practice dhikr through physical exertions or religious practices to attain the ecstatic trance to reach God. Their most common practice is Sama, which is associated with the 13th-century mystic Rumi.\n\nThe Persian word \"darvīsh\" () is of ancient origin and descends from a Proto-Iranian word that appears in Avestan as \"needy, mendicant\", via Middle Persian \"driyosh.\" The Iranian word is probably a cognate with the Vedic Sanskrit word an epithet of uncertain meaning applied to several deities. The Vedic word is probably to be analysed as that is \"not perhaps \"not poor\", i.e., \"rich.\" The existence of this Vedic cognate suggests that the institution of the holy mendicant was as prominent among the ancient Indo-Iranian people as it has been historically in later Iran in the form of dervish brotherhoods, and also in India in the form of the various schools of sannyasis. However, because the etymology of the word is not apparent from the point of view of the modern Persian language, there have been attempts to make the parts of the word interpretable in terms of contemporary words and with reference to Sufic mystical concepts. \"Der\", spelt as \"dar\" before 1964 (Dari language), means \"door\" in Persian; \"dervish\" has been interpreted as \"one who goes from door to door\". The Persian word also gives terms for \"ascetic\" in some languages, as in the Urdu phrase \"darveshaneh tabi'at\", \"an unflappable or ascetic temperament\". According to the Bundahishn \"dervish\" or \"darwesh\" means \"visitor from many doors\". The term is a composition of the word \"der\" or \"dar\" and the adjective \"wish\" or \"wesh\" ويش or وش \"vsh\" (much, more), and means \"someone who goes from door to door and sings, gets money, and wakes the people\". This word is outdated in Persian, but it exists in the Indo-Iranian language of Pashto as \"wesh zalmanyan\" or \"wish zalmayan\", meaning \"awakened youth\".\n\nMany dervishes are mendicant ascetics who have taken a vow of poverty, unlike mullahs. The main reason they beg is to learn humility, but dervishes are prohibited to beg for their own good. They have to give the collected money to other poor people. Others work in common professions; Egyptian Qadiriyya – known in Turkey as Kadiri – are fishermen, for example.\n\nSome classical writers indicate that the poverty of the dervish is not merely economic. Saadi, for instance, who himself travelled widely as a dervish, and wrote extensively about them, says in his \"Gulistan\":\nRumi writes in Book 1 of his Masnavi:\nThe whirling dance or Sufi whirling that is proverbially associated with dervishes is best known in the West by the practices (performances) of the Mevlevi order in Turkey, and is part of a formal ceremony known as the Sama. It is, however, also practiced by other orders. The Sama is only one of the many Sufi ceremonies performed to try to reach religious ecstasy (\"majdhb\", \"fana\"). The name \"Mevlevi\" comes from the Persian poet Rumi, who was a dervish himself. This practice, though not intended as entertainment, has become a tourist attraction in Turkey.\n\nThere are various orders of dervishes, almost all of which trace their origins from various Muslim saints and teachers, especially Imam Ali. Various orders and suborders have appeared and disappeared over the centuries. Dervishes spread into North Africa, the Horn of Africa, Turkey, the Balkans, the Caucasus, Iran, Pakistan, India, Afghanistan, and Tajikistan.\n\nOther dervish groups include the Bektashis, who are connected to the janissaries, and the Senussi, who are rather orthodox in their beliefs. Other fraternities and subgroups chant verses of the Qur'an, play drums or whirl in groups, all according to their specific traditions. They practice meditation, as is the case with most of the Sufi orders in South Asia, many of whom owe allegiance to, or were influenced by, the Chishti order. Each fraternity uses its own garb and methods of acceptance and initiation, some of which may be rather severe.\n\nThe Dervish movement was an early 20th-century Somali Sunni Islamic state that was established by Mohammed Abdullah Hassan, a religious leader who gathered Somali soldiers from across the Horn of Africa and united them into a loyal army known as the \"Dervishes\". This Dervish army enabled Hassan to carve out a powerful state through conquest of lands claimed by the Somali Sultans, the Ethiopians and the European powers. The Dervish movement acquired renown in the Islamic and Western worlds due to its resistance against Britain and Italy. The Dervish movement successfully repulsed British-led Somali and Ethiopian forces four times and forced them to retreat to the coastal region. The polity also maintained relations with other authorities, receiving support from the Ottoman and German empires. The Turks also named Hassan Emir of the Somali nation, and the Germans promised to officially recognize any territories the Dervishes were to acquire. The Dervish movement was finally defeated by the British in 1920.\n\nVarious western historical writers have sometimes used the term \"dervish\" rather loosely, linking it to, among other things, the Mahdist uprising in Sudan and other rebellions against colonial powers. In such cases, the term \"dervishes\" may have been used as a generic (and often pejorative) term for the opposing Islamic entity and all members of its military, political and religious institutions, including persons who would not be considered \"dervishes\" in the strict sense.\n\nFor example, a contemporary British drawing of the fighting in Sudan was entitled \"The defeat of the dervishes at Toski\" (see History of Sudan (1884–1898)#British response).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10781476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10781476", "title": "Frederic Spiegelberg", "text": "Frederic Spiegelberg\n\nFrederic Spiegelberg (May 24, 1897 – November 10, 1994) was a Stanford University professor of Asian religions. \n\nSpiegelberg was born into a Jewish family in Hamburg, Germany, in 1897 and earned his doctorate at the University of Tübingen in 1922. He went on to earn a theological degree from the German Lutheran Church. He studied with theologians Rudolf Otto and Paul Tillich, the philosopher Martin Heidegger, and the psychologist Carl Jung. He participated in Jung's Eranos symposia and lectured at Jung's institute in Zurich. In 1933, Spiegelberg took over Tillich's position at the University of Dresden, but only four years later he was fired from his position and he and his wife, Rosalie, fled Hitler¹s Germany with the aid of Tillich.\n\nIn the United States, Spiegelberg taught at Columbia University, the University of Rochester, the University of California, Union Theological Seminary and the Pacific School of Religion.\nHe joined Stanford as a lecturer in religion in 1941 and retired in 1962 as professor of Indian civilization in the Department of Asiatic and Slavic Studies. He became an expert in Asian religions with a classical comparative focus. He was known for his command of languages, including Sanskrit, Pali, Hebrew, Greek, Latin, German and French. He was considered an exceptional lecturer, winning student awards and the admiration of peers.\n\nIn 1950, Spiegelberg invited Indian professor of philosophy Haridas Chaudhuri, who had done his dissertation on the Integral philosophy of Sri Aurobindo, to join the staff of the newly formed American Academy of Asian Studies in San Francisco, the first accredited U.S. graduate school devoted exclusively to the study of Asiatic lands and peoples. This school was closed and replaced in 1968 by the California Institute of Asian (now Integral) Studies founded by Haridas Chaudhuri where Spiegelberg served as president from 1976 to 1978. In 1960, Spiegelberg and Chaudhuri published a commemorative volume on Sri Aurobindo.\n\nSpiegelberg was also involved in founding the Esalen Institute with former student Michael Murphy and Dick Price.\n\nIn 2007, religion scholar Jeffrey Kripal summarized Spiegelberg's approach to religion as follows: \n\nSpiegelberg died in 1994 of complications from abdominal surgery. He was survived by a daughter, Corinne Wilkinson, as well as two children from an earlier marriage: a son, Valentin Spiegelberg, and a daughter, Dorothea Florian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36528524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36528524", "title": "Ham Hindu Nahin", "text": "Ham Hindu Nahin\n\nHam Hindu Nahin ( ; Translation: \"We are not Hindus\"), also spelled as Hum Hindu Nahin, is a 19th-century Punjabi book by Kahn Singh Nabha, on the distinction of the Sikhism and identity. First published in 1898, the book was registered under this title in the Punjab Gazette on June 30, 1899 at number 447.\n\nPressing its claim vehemently and vigorously to the distinction of the Sikh identity and religion, it concludes with a versified note by the author, describing the characteristics of the Khalsa.\n\nWhen there were a lot of misconceptions \nand questions raised upon the Different identity of Sikh Religion and it being a sect of Hindu Religion. Bhai Kahn Singh Nabha writes this book in order to clarify and answer those misconceptions and questions. \nIn this book, writers discusses about the differences in between the beliefs of Hindu faith and the Sikh faith in depth along with the letters which writer received from various Sikh Scholars and Prominent Sikh Shrines, in favor of this book. \nThe book gives deep analysis along with references to religious texts and Historical incidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "50578008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50578008", "title": "Heads: A Biography of Psychedelic America", "text": "Heads: A Biography of Psychedelic America\n\nHeads: A Biography of Psychedelic America is a 2016 non-fiction book by rock journalist Jesse Jarnow. The book describes American psychedelics counterculture in the second half of the twentieth century.\n\nJarnow is a rock journalist whose writing has been published by Rolling Stone, Pitchfork, Wired, and the Village Voice. He began his career writing about the Grateful Dead for \"Dupree's Diamond News.\" Jarnow spent nearly a decade researching \"Heads: A Biography of Psychedelic America\". Some of the book's material was published in earlier articles for magazines like Wired and Relix.\n\n\"Heads\" relies heavily on firsthand interviews. Interview subjects include sociologist Rebecca Adams, photographer Jay Blakesberg, musician and journalist David Gans, Karen Horning, journalist Blair Jackson, musician Ned Lagin, Carol Latvala (wife of Dick Latvala), LSD chemist Sarah Matzar, LSD historian Mark McCloud, Grateful Dead publicist Dennis McNally, artist Jim Pollock, taper Doug Oade, Earth and Fire of Erowid, musician Lee Ranaldo, LSD chemist Tim Scully, concert promoter Peter Shapiro, Rhoney Stanley (wife of Owsley Stanley), and many more.\n\n\"Heads\" offers an analysis of American psychedelic counterculture and its effects on mainstream American society. Jarnow describes the Grateful Dead and their concerts as a kind of loosely organized infrastructure for American counterculture, detailing how the band and their fans were inextricably linked to LSD distribution from the 1960s through the 1990s.\n\nIn addition to the Grateful Dead's longstanding connection LSD chemist and sound engineer Owsley Stanley, Jarnow describes how Grateful Dead concerts served as a meeting point and social network for high level LSD dealers like Karen Horning and chemists like Sarah Matzer and William Leonard Pickard. The book also discusses how the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration targeted LSD-trafficking Deadheads in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe book also examines the influence of LSD and other psychedelics on diverse fields of American culture, especially technology and Silicon Valley. Jarnow describes the psychedelic use of Apple Computers founders Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, and how early Internet technology like ARPANET was used for countercultural purposes.\n\n\"Heads\" also examines how LSD and the Grateful Dead impacted the art world, influencing the New York graffiti clique Rolling Thunder Writers and artist Keith Haring. Jarnow reports that Keith Haring's first commercially available work was a T-shirt Haring designed to sell in the parking lot of Grateful Dead shows.\n\n\"Heads\" also offers a history of the Grateful Dead's fans, known as Deadheads. The book presents biographic information about the band's archivist Dick Latvala, the network of Grateful Dead tape trading, and the history of concert promoter Johnny Dwork and the Hampshire College Grateful Dead Historical Society.\n\nIn its attempt to cover a range of central narrative within American counterculture and the hippie scene, the book presents histories of the Bread and Puppet Theater, the American jamband Phish, Wetlands Preserve, John Perry Barlow and the Electronic Freedom Foundation, psychedelic pioneer Terence McKenna, and Humbead's Revised Map of the World.\n\n\"Heads: A Biography of Psychedelic America\" received significant mainstream coverage and generally favorable reviews.\n\nHua Hsu of The New Yorker described the book as \"meticulously researched\" and praised Jarnow for his \"attempt to complicate and extend the history of psychoactive drugs in this country.\"\n\nWriting for SFGate, Steve Silberman praised the book for its novel approach to psychedelic counterculture: \"rather than giving more screen time to overhyped blowhards such as [Timothy] Leary, Jarnow refreshingly focuses on the overlooked foot-soldiers of the lysergic revolution.\" Silberman described \"most regrettable oversight\" as \"Jarnow’s failure to explore the Afrofuturist movement and other aspects of non-white psychedelia.\"\n\nKirkus Reviews commended book's depth of research: \"Jarnow has a bloodhound’s sense of the marrow of an argument and the meat of historic fact.\" Kirkus questioned some of Jarnow's conclusions about the influence of psychedelic culture, while reiterating the book's writing style and entertaining history: \"Though Jarnow is sometimes unduly celebratory and sometimes begs credulity—is the fact that we use emoji on our mobile phones really evidence that the psychedelic revolution carried the day?—his book is a lot of fun to read, and it absorbs its own weight in excess reality.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "85726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85726", "title": "Hercle", "text": "Hercle\n\nIn Etruscan religion, Hercle (also \"Heracle\" or \"Hercl\"), the son of Tinia and Uni, was a version of the Greek Heracles, depicted as a muscular figure often carrying a club and wearing a lionskin. He is a popular subject in Etruscan art, particularly bronze mirrors, which show him engaged in adventures not known from the Greek myths of Heracles or the Roman and later classical myths of Hercules.\n\nIn the Etruscan tradition, Uni (Roman Juno) grants Hercle access to a life among the immortals by offering her breast milk to him. Hercle was the first man elevated to a godhood through his deeds and Etruscan aristocrats tried to identify with this ascension, as reflected in artwork and literature.\n\nHercle can be recognized in Etruscan art from his attributes, or is sometimes identified by name. Since Etruscan literature has not survived, the meaning of the scenes in which he appears can only be interpreted by comparison to Greek and Roman myths, through information about Etruscan myths preserved by Greek and Latin literature, or through conjectural reconstructions based on other Etruscan representations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24739810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24739810", "title": "Hillel Roman", "text": "Hillel Roman\n\nHillel Roman (הלל רומן) is a visual artist living and working in Tel Aviv, Israel.\n\nRoman was born on April 16, 1975 in Los Angeles, California. At age 24 he joined Hamidrasha Art School, Beit Berl College, Israel. In 2004 Roman graduated from Tel-Aviv University, the Department for Poetics and Comparative Literature (magna cum laude), and in 2007 he received his Masters of Fine Arts from Goldsmiths College, University of London.\n\nRoman employs a wide range of techniques, from drawing, painting and conceptual art, through sculpting and etching, to building fully functional astronomical observatories. \n\nAfter his graduation from Beit Berl college, he assumed a teaching position there, and in the years 2004-2006 he lectured at Avni Institute of Art and Design in Tel Aviv. After having returned from his studies in London, he resumed his position at Beit Berl, and also accepted a teaching role at Thelma Yellin school of Fine Arts.\n\nIn 2007, Roman received a residency grant at Cite Internationale des Arts, Paris, France. In 2009, he won the Young Artist Prize from the Ministry of culture, Israel. The judging committee said about him: \"Roman's paintings, drawings and etchings, always beautiful and saturated... more than intending to delegate a (renewed) birth of beauty out of the banal, replicated and ordinary, they wish to confront the postmodern spectator with the question 'what is modern painting'...\"\n\nIn an interview with curator Orit Bulgaro in the catalog of Idiolect, an exhibition at the Bat Yam Museum of Contemporary Art in 2009, Roman discussed \"...the significance of the concrete versus the metaphorical, the human desire to get through the metaphor and to touch, the vain struggle to bridge the distance between the eye and the hand. Maybe that is the privilege of the painter/sculptor, and the source of his relevance, despite it all. In any case, I try to create objects or paintings that exist in that chasm between the concrete and the metaphorical; perhaps that is my way of trying to avoid filling any role.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "293814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293814", "title": "Hwaeom", "text": "Hwaeom\n\nHwaeom is the name of the Korean transmission of the Huayan school of Chinese Buddhism.\n\nThe greatest lasting impact of the Huayan school was to be seen in Korea, where it was transmitted by Uisang (hangul:의상대사 625-702), who had been, along with Fazang, a student of Zhiyan. After Uisang returned to Korea in 671, he worked vigorously toward the establishment of the Hwaeom school on Korea. In this effort, he was greatly aided by the powerful influences of his friend Wonhyo (hangul:원효대사, hanja:元曉), who although not an official representative of the school, relied deeply on Hwaeom metaphysical principles to establish his concept of interpenetrated Buddhism (通佛教).\n\nAfter the passing of these two early monks, the Hwaeom school became strongly established under the influence of a long series of Hwaeom masters. The Hwaeom school remained in the position of predominant doctrinal school up until the end of the Goryeo Dynasty, when it was placed into a forced merger with the Seon school (hangul:선종, hanja:禪宗). Within the Seon school, Hwaeom thought would continue to play a strong role, and continues as such to modern times.\n\n"}
{"id": "13690746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13690746", "title": "Ilayathu", "text": "Ilayathu\n\nIlayathu (IAST:Ilayat) (also written as Ilayath, Elayath, Elayathu) is a Hindu community in Kerala and belong to a sect of Brahmin community. The house of an Ilayath is known as Illam. The origin of this community like those of Nampoothiris and Nairs and perhaps most of the upper class communities in Kerala is shrouded in mystery. And what remains is a few legends and traditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "39865011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39865011", "title": "Irreligion in Albania", "text": "Irreligion in Albania\n\nIrreligion, atheism and agnosticism are present among Albanians (see religion in Albania), along with the predominant faiths of Islam and Christianity. The majority of Albanians lead a secular life and reject religious considerations to shape or condition their way of life.\n\nIrreligion in Albania arose after a period of rising anti-clericalism and secularization in the context of the rising Albanian nationalism in the late Ottoman Empire. While authors in this period had at times used invective against religion, the first public advocate of abandoning religion itself was Ismet Toto in 1934 followed by works by Anastas Plasari in 1935. Beginning in 1946 under communist rule in Albania, religion was first curtailed, and then public religious practice was outlawed in 1967 with the adoption of state atheism by Enver Hoxha although some private practice survived, and remained so until restrictions were first eased in 1985 and then removed in 1990 under his successor Ramiz Alia. Polling by UNDP showed that large majorities of Albanians agree that nationalism, lack of religion and the ban of religion during communist rule have helped build the foundations of religious tolerance.\n\nNowadays, estimations of the size of the irreligious population vary widely. The self declared atheist population has been given figures ranging from 2.5% to 8% to 9% while other estimates of irreligiosity have reported figures of 39% declaring as \"atheists\"(9%) or \"nonreligious\"(30%), 61% not saying religion was \"important\" to their lives, and 72% \"non-practicing\". Many Albanians identified as Muslims or Christians have been found to practice only few or none of their faith's observances. Based on studies conducted in 2008, 2009 and 2015, Albania was found out to be the 20th least religious country in the world, with 39% of the population being religious.\n\nReligious identity in Albania is typically assigned by attribution, usually by familial history, rather than actual practice. Despite widespread lack of religious practice, some antipathy toward outward atheists has been detected in surveys, and while there are numerous public figures who openly declare themselves as atheist, there have also been complaints about negative public discourse toward atheists.\n\nIn the late Ottoman era, in order to overcome the religious divisions among Albanians between members of the local Sunni Muslim, Orthodox Christian, Bektashi Muslim and Roman Catholic Christian communities. Albanian nationalism, as it emerged, tended to urge Albanians to disregard religious differences, arguing that divisive sectarian religious fanaticism was alien to Albanian culture, and propagated what some historians refer to as a \"'civic religion' of Albanianism\". Pashko Vasa's famous poem \"O moj Shqypni\" told Albanians to \"swear an oath not to mind [lit. \"look to\"] church or mosque\" because \"the faith of the Albanian is Albanianism\" ( or in ).\n\nAlbanian national revivalists in the 19th century such as Faik Konitza, Jani Vreto and Zef Jubani were often anti-clerical in rhetoric (Konitza said in 1897: \"Every faith religion makes me puke\", or ) but the first advocate of atheism in modern Albania is thought to have been Ismet Toto, a publicist and revolutionary whose 1934 anti-religious polemic, \"Grindje me Klerin\" (\"Quarrel with the clergy\n\"), was one of the first known works advocating against the practice of religion itself in the Albanian language. This was followed by \"Sëmundja Fetare\" (\"The Disease of Religion\"), another important anti-religious polemic by Anastas Plasari in 1935. The poem \"Blasfemi\" by Migjeni, who was considered to be an atheist by many, is also noted as being anti-religious. Another important figure before that time was the politician and mayor of Gjirokastër, Hysen Hoxha, the uncle of Enver Hoxha, who was considered to be an \"Radical Atheist and anti-colonialist\". His atheistic views influenced those of Enver Hoxha.\n\nDuring the communist era, Albania transitioned from a simple secular state to, in 1967, an entity upholding state atheism by which all public practice of religion was banned, although some private practice survived. The beginning of anti-religious policies implemented by the Communist Party of Albania was in August 1946, with the Agrarian Reform Law which nationalized most of the property of religious institutions, restricted the activity of religious institutions, and preceded the persecution of many clergy and believers and the expulsion of all foreign Catholic priests.\n\nIn 1967 Enver Hoxha took Pashko Vasa's poem literally, turning the struggle against the divisiveness of religious affiliations into a struggle against religion itself in order to replace the divisive allegiances of the different religious communities with a unifying loyalty to the Communist state, and he declared Albania an Atheist State, in which public religious practice was prohibited. By May 1967, all 2,169 religious buildings in Albania were nationalized, with many converted into cultural centers. A major center for anti-religious propaganda was the National Museum of Atheism () in Shkodër, the city viewed by the government as the most religiously conservative. After the death of Enver Hoxha in 1985, his successor, Ramiz Alia, adopted a more tolerant stance toward religious practice, calling it as \"a personal and family matter.\" Émigré clergymen were permitted to reenter the country in 1988 and officiate at religious services. Mother Teresa, an ethnic Albanian, visited Tirana in 1989, where she was received by the foreign minister and by Hoxha's widow. In December 1990, the ban on religious observance was officially lifted, in time to allow thousands of Christians to attend Christmas services, although other sources report that official termination of the ban was in 1991.\n\nIn 2014, following a visit by Pope Francis to Albania, some intellectuals criticized what they perceived as negative rhetoric aimed at atheists, which increasingly linked atheism to \"communist crimes\" and spoke of atheism as \"deficient\", leading to complaints that the revival of an anti-atheist \"taboo\", among other issues.\n\nDifferent surveys have produced considerably varying figures for size of the irreligious population of Albania. A simple majority of the population claimed \"no religious alliance\" in 1993 while the irreligious population was recorded at 74% in 1994 and more than 72% reported in 2005 as per religious \"practice\" (the remainder was 21% forms of Islam, 6% Orthodoxy and 3% Catholicism). In August 2012, Pew Research study found out that only 15 percent of the Muslim population for example, consider religion as a very important factor in their lives, which was the lowest percentage in the world amongst countries with significant Muslim populations. Another survey conducted by Gallup Global Reports 2010 shows that religion plays an important role in the lives of 39 percent of Albanians, and lists Albania as the thirteenth least religious country of the 114 surveyed. When asked if they were \"religious\" in 2016 by Badem-WIN and Gallup-International, 56% of Albanians said they were \"religious\", 30% said they were \"not religious\", 9% said \"atheist\", and 5% did not answer, with the same study finding that 80% of Albanians believe in the concept of \"God\", 40% believing in life after death, 57% believing in the existence of souls, 40% believing in hell, and 42% believing in heaven. Also in Albania the majority of the males are not circumcised (as demanded by Islamic custom).\n\nIn the 2011 census, preliminary results showed 70% of Albanians refusing to declare belief in any of the listed faiths although the final results may have differed markedly from this in showing the majority of Albanians associated with Islam and Christianity while 16.3% of Albanians either didn't answer or were atheist and another 5.5% were listed as \"believers without (specific) faith\". The final results were nevertheless criticized by numerous communities as well as international organizations such as the Council of Europe, and news media noted concerns that there were reports where workers filled out the religion question without actually asking the participants, and that they used pencils which wasn't allowed, possibly leading to incorrect tallies; in the religious dimension, both the Orthodox and the Bektashis claimed they were vastly underrepresented.\n\nA 2018 survey based on three WIN/Gallup International polls and published in the UK Telegraph showed Albania was the least religious county in the Balkans, having a “Western-style” attitude to religion, with only 39% being religious. In contrast with Macedonia (88%), Kosovo (83%) and Romania (77%). In Serbia, Croatia, Greece the figure was from 70% to 72%. In Bosnia the figure was 65% religious, while in Bulgaria it was 52%.\n\nYounger Albanians have been found to manifest more irreligion than their elders, making the trend in Albania opposite that found in Bosnia and those of Orthodox background have been found to report the lowest importance of \"God in their lives\", closely followed by those of Muslim background, while those of Catholic background showed greater \"importance of God in their lives\" (for example, 54.5% of those of Catholic background said that God was \"very important in their lives\", compared to 26.7% of Orthodox and 35.6% of Muslims).\n\nA 2008 medical study in Tirana on the relationship between religious observance and acute coronary syndrome found out that 67% of Muslims and 55% of Christians were completely religiously non-observant. The regular attendance of religious institutions (at least once every 2 weeks) was low in both denominations (6% in Muslims and 9% in Christians), and weekly attendance was very low (2% and 1%, respectively). Frequent praying (at least 2 to 3 times per week) was higher in Christians (29%) than in Muslims (17%). Praying several times daily (as required of devout Muslims) was rare (2% in Muslims and 3% in Christians). Regular fasting during Ramadan or Lent was similarly low in Muslims and Christians (5% and 6%, respectively). Generally Christians in the study were more observant then Muslims (26% vs 17%).\n\nA 2015 study on the Albanian youth aged 16–27 found that total of 80 percent of young people in Albania are not religion practitioners and practice their religion only during the main religious holidays and festivities. Specifically 23 percent of the respondents never practised their religion, while 61 percent practised it only in religious holidays. From the rest, 11 percent practiced it 1-2 times a week, while 5 percent practiced it everyday.\n\nA 2016 study on homophobia among Albanian students found that a decrease in the level of religious belief was correlated with decreased detection of homophobia, while no difference was observed between those who identified with Catholicism or Islam.\n\nA study by the United Nations Development Programme in 2018 showed that 62.7% of Albanians do not practice religion while 37.3% do practice it.\n\nIn the European Values Survey in 2008, Albania had the highest unbelief in the life after death among all other countries, with 74.3% not believing in it.\n\nAccording to the WIN/Gallup International study in 2016 about the beliefs of the Albanians:\n\n\nIn Albania, religious identity is typically defined by \"attribution\", typically via one's familial religious background, rather than actual adherence, and regardless of an individual's religiosity or lack thereof, it can still be socially significant, as it is occasionally linked to historical socioeconomic and cultural factors in some contexts.\n\nSome well known Albanian contemporary atheists include Ismail Kadare, Dritëro Agolli, Ben Blushi, Fatos Lubonja, Mustafa Nano, Diana Çuli,Elton Deda Fatos Tarifa, , , Gilman Bakalli and Blendi Fevziu.\n\nAntipathy toward overt atheists has been detected in surveys—in one edition of the World Values Survey, 19.7% of Catholics, 17% of Muslims, and 9.4% of Orthodox \"strongly agreed\" that \"those who don't believe in God\" are unfit for office (total agreeing: 47.3% of Catholics, 46.9% of Muslims and 37% of Orthodox). According to a 2011 study by Ipsos, 53.5% of the Albanians found found atheists \"similar\" to them while 34.1% found them \"different\".\n\nSome Albanian intellectuals have complained about the revival of a \"taboo\" against atheism as seen in the rhetoric surrounding the 2014 visit of the Pope to the country where atheism was linked to \"communist crimes\" and seen as \"deficient\", and that the new Albanian constitution claims trust in God as a \"universal\" value despite the significant number of people who don't believe in God in the country. There have also been complaints about discourse both in Albania and by foreigners which cites statistics of the traditional population shares of the different Muslim and Christian sects present, which would show the country to be a 100% religious country, thus erasing the presence of the irreligious.\n\nPrime Minister Edi Rama (himself of Catholic and Orthodox extraction with a Muslim wife and having expressed doubt about the existence of God) has asserted that Albania's traditional religious harmony, traditionally defined as being between the four main faiths of Sunni Islam, Orthodox Christianity, Bektashi Islam and Roman Catholic Christianity, should also include the irreligious. In a 2015 national public Iftar service, he noted that an atheist friend of his had politely refused his invitation, but said:\n\n\"If it were the exclusive platform of those who believe in God, there are few who would be here. Therefore this is why I have taught myself for many years, at first from my office and then from inner impulse, that around the Iftar table we come as practicers of different faiths but some of us (also as) non-believers to pay respect. This participation is a special opportunity to experience and create a space of coexistence.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7916539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7916539", "title": "Islam in Mongolia", "text": "Islam in Mongolia\n\nIslam in Mongolia is practiced by approximately 3 to 5% of the population. It is practised by the ethnic Kazakhs of Bayan-Ölgii Province (88.7% of total aimag population) and Khovd Province (11.5% of total aimag population, living primarily in the Khovd city, Khovd sum, and Buyant sum) aimag in western Mongolia. In addition, a number of small Kazakh communities can be found in various cities and towns spread throughout the country.\n\nThe earliest evidence of Islam in Mongolia is dated to 1254 when the Franciscan William of Rubruck visited the court of the great khan Mongka at Karakorum. He celebrated Easter at a Nestorian Christian church but also noted seven temples of the \"idolators\" (possibly Buddhist, Hindu and Taoist temples) and two mosques. Therefore, historians date the arrival of Islam to Mongolia to between 1222 and 1254. Islam also gained the notice of the Mongols after Genghis Khan invaded Afghanistan. In 1222, on his way back to Mongolia, he visited Bukhara in Transoxiana. It was believed he inquired about Islam, and subsequently approved of Muslim tenets except the Hajj, considering it unnecessary. Nevertheless, he continued his worship of Tengri as his ancestors had done.\n\nGenghis Khan and the following Yuan emperors forbade Islamic practices like Halal butchering, forcing Mongol methods of butchering animals on Muslims, and other restrictive degrees continued. Muslims had to slaughter sheep in secret. Genghis Khan directly called Muslims and Jews \"slaves\" and demanded that they follow the Mongol method of eating rather than the halal method. Circumcision was also forbidden. Jews were also affected and forbidden by the Mongols to eat Kosher.\nAmong all the [subject] alien peoples only the Hui-hui say “we do not eat Mongol food”. [Cinggis Qa’an replied:] “By the aid of heaven we have pacified you; you are our slaves. Yet you do not eat our food or drink. How can this be right?” He thereupon made them eat. “If you slaughter sheep, you will be considered guilty of a crime.” He issued a regulation to that effect ... [In 1279/1280 under Qubilai] all the Muslims say: “if someone else slaughters [the animal] we do not eat”. Because the poor people are upset by this, from now on, Musuluman [Muslim] Huihui, and Zhuhu [Jewish] Huihui, no matter who kills [the animal] will eat [it] and must cease slaughtering sheep themselves, and cease the rite of circumcision.\nGenghis Khan's grandson Berke converted to Islam due to the efforts of Saif ud-Din Dervish, a dervish from Khorazm, thus Berke became one of the first Mongol rulers to convert. Other Mongol leaders owed their conversion to Islam due to the influence of a Muslim wife. Later, it was the Mamluk ruler Baibars who played an important role in bringing many Golden Horde Mongols to Islam. Baibars developed strong ties with the Mongols of the Golden Horde and took steps for the Golden Horde Mongols to travel to Egypt. The arrival of the Golden Horde Mongols to Egypt resulted in a significant number of Mongols accepting Islam. By the 1330s, three of the four major khanates of the Mongol Empire had become Muslim. These were the Golden Horde, Hulagu's Ulus and Chagatai's Ulus. The Yuan Empire also embraced Muslim peoples such as the Persians.\n\nAlthough the court of the Yuan Empire adopted Tibetan Buddhism as the official religion, the majority of the ordinary Mongols, especially those who continued living in Mongolia proper, remained Shamanists. After the decline of the Yuan Dynasty, Shamanism once again became the dominant religion. To varying degrees, political and economic relations with Muslim nations such as Moghulistan continued.\n\nThe Muslim Kazakhs began to settle in the Jungaria and Altai regions in the late nineteenth century. The majority of these Kazakhs were the Kerei and Naiman clans, many of them escaping persecution in Czarist Russia. When Bogdo Khan assumed power in Mongolia on December 29, 1911, the Kazakhs in Xinjiang and Altai regions sought the patronage of the restored Khanate. The government of Bogdo Khan admitted them and allowed them to settle in the western region of Mongolia's Kobdo territory.\n\nBayan-Ölgii aimag was established as part of the administrative reforms of the Mongolian People's Republic in 1940. As a result of historically high birth rates, the Muslim population in Mongolia increased between 1956 and 1989. However, there was a decline in the Muslim population in 1990-1993 due to the large wave of repatriation of ethnic Kazakhs (so-called oralmans) to Kazakhstan following the break-up of the Soviet Union.\n\nIslam is currently practiced predominately in the western portion of the country as well as in Mongolia's capital. Some of the major population centers with a significant Muslim presence include Ulan Bator (90% in khoroo #4 of Nalaikh düüreg), Töv and Selenge aimags, Erdenet, Darkhan, Bulgan, Sharyngol (17.1% of population total) and Berkh cities. \n\n"}
{"id": "40526196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40526196", "title": "Jainism in the United Kingdom", "text": "Jainism in the United Kingdom\n\nAdherents of Jainism first arrived in the United Kingdom (UK) in the 19th century. The UK, mainly England, has since become a center of the Jain diaspora.\n\nIn 1873 Hermann Jacobi encountered Jain texts in London. He later visited India to further study and translate some of them. Later during 1891-1901, M.K. Gandhi in London corresponded with Shrimad Rajchandra regarding questions raised by missionaries.\n\nChampat Rai Jain was in England during 1892-1897, to study law. He established the Rishabh Jain Lending library 1930. Later he translated several Jain texts into English.\n\nDuring 1906-1910, Jugmandar Lal Jaini was at Oxford as a law student. In 1909 he created the Jain Literature Society in London together with F. W. Thomas and H. Warren.\n\nIn 1949 The World Jaina Mission was founded in London, by M. McKay, W. H. Talbot, F. Mansell, and Mrs. K. P. Jain.\n\nAfter the independence of East African colonies from Britain in early 1960s, Jains of Gujarati origin who had been in the colonies for decades started moving to UK. This process accelerated after the 1972 Idi Amin expulsion of Asians from Uganda.Most of the Gujarati Jains from East Africa belonged either to the Visa Oshwal community, originally from the Halar region of Saurashtra or the Jamnagar Srimali community .\n\nIn 1973 the Jain Samaj Leicester was formed. In 1979 an old church building on Oxford Street, in the heart of Leicester, was bought and named the Jain Centre. In 1980, the Jain Samaj was expanded as a European body.\n\nIn 1982, the Jain Samaj opened an office in London. The All India (Overseas) Jinalaya Samiti was created to complete the temple according to the plans drawn by the architects from Leicester, Bombay and Ahmedabad.\n\nIn 1983, on 10 November, Shilanyas ceremony (the laying of the foundation stones) for the first fully consecrated Jain temple in the western world, was performed. In 1984, on 14 December, the Anjanshalaka ceremony was carried at Pali for the images of Shantinath, Mahavir and Parswanath. In 1985, on 25 August, the above images were placed in the Jain Centre, Leicester. In 1988, on 8 July, the images were entered in the Garbagriha (permanent place of adobe) and the Pratistha ceremony was celebrated for 16 days from 8 July 1988 to 23 July 1988.\nMahavir Foundation was registered as a Charity in England and Wales (no 296175). It operates a temple in Kenton, Middlesex (London). It has consecrated images of Mahavir Swami, Parshvanath, Aadinath, Simandhar Swami and Munisuvrat Swami. It also has Padmavati Mata and Gautam Swami. There is a separate shrine of Manibhadra Veer, Ghantakarna Veer and Nakoda Bhairavji\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4642021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4642021", "title": "James Gordon Lindsay", "text": "James Gordon Lindsay\n\nJames Gordon Lindsay (June 18, 1906 – April 1, 1973) was a revivalist preacher, author, and founder of Christ for the Nations Institute.\n\nBorn in Zion, Illinois, Lindsay's parents were disciples of John Alexander Dowie, the father of healing revivalism in America. After the family moved to Portland, Oregon, the young boy was influenced by John G. Lake and converted by Charles Fox Parham. At the age of eighteen he began his ministry as a traveling evangelist, conducting meetings in Assembly of God churches and other Pentecostal groups.\n\nJames Gordon Lindsay was born and raised in an atmosphere of healing and Pentecostal experience. He was born in Zion City, Illinois, on June 18, 1906. His parents were Thomas Lindsay and Effie (Ramsey) Lindsay. They were followers of John Alexander Dowie, a famous healing evangelist. When the city went bankrupt, after the fall of Dowie, the Lindsay family moved to a Christian community in California, led by Pisgah Finis E. Yoakum, and then to Portland, Oregon. He converted during a meeting led by Charles Fox Parham, the initiator of the Pentecostal movement in Topeka, Kansas. He then developed a relationship with John G. Lake, who started the Divine Healing Mission in Spokane, Washington and Portland, Oregon. Lindsay traveled with Lake in the campaigns of California and the southern states. Then he became a pastor of a Foursquare Gospel church in California, but returned to Oregon, where he married Freda Schimpf.\n\nWhen World War II broke out, Lindsay accepted a call to become pastor of a church in Ashland, Oregon in early 1940. He first heard William Branham in a meeting in Sacramento and, after meeting with him, they both agreed that Lindsay should act as Branham's campaign manager. In 1947 he resigned his pastoral position to become campaign manager for Branham. In order to promote the campaign, Lindsay started the \"Voice of Healing\" in April 1948, a magazine of wide circulation, particularly in the southern US. The first issue listed William Branham as Publisher, Gordon Lindsay as Editor, Jack Moore as Associate Editor, and Anna Jeanne Moore as Circulation Editor.\n\nA few months later in July 1948, Branham announced he was stepping away from the revival circuit for a time. The news came as quite a blow to Lindsay who had just begun the revival publication to cover Branham's meetings. Coverage of other evangelists, such as Jack Coe, Oral Roberts, and A. A. Allen began to appear in the magazine as it circulated nationwide. The group sponsored the first convention of healing evangelists in Dallas, Texas during 1949 and began to function as a loose fellowship of ministers under the Voice of Healing banner. In 1950 a biography of Branham written by Lindsay (\"William Branham: A Man Sent from God\") was published.\n\nBy October 1950, Branham was no longer the publisher but was listed as an associate editor. The masthead listed the following editors:\n\n\nAs the popularity of some of its members rose, they left the fellowship to establish their own organizations and publish their own literature.\n\nLindsay's own work began to move in the direction of missions. He began sponsoring missions programs in several foreign countries and started a radio ministry. During 1956 he conducted a Winning the Nations Crusade, sending teams of ministers all around the world. The Voice of Healing magazine changed names briefly to World-Wide Revival in 1968 before the final change to Christ for the Nations. One of Lindsay's last visions before his death was a bible training institute in Dallas, Texas. Christ For The Nations Institute began in 1970 and has trained thousands of students from around the world.\n\nLindsay was a prolific writer, publishing over 250 volumes of historical and doctrinal books on the healing revival movement. His ministry came to a halt with his sudden death on April 1, 1973. Lindsay's wife Freda and family continued the work he began. Christ for the Nations, Inc. has five main facets: a national church program; a national literature work; a Jewish mission in Israel; national and international Bible training schools; and a prayer and tape ministry.\n\nGordon Lindsay was also the first Evangelical preacher/writer to assume a link between the UFO phenomenon of his day and the fallen Angels (Nephilim) in Genesis 6. He wrote several books about the subject, as well as articles in the Voice of Healing Magazine.\n\nLindsay, as well as Charles Cullis (70 years earlier), felt there was need for a literature that covered the history, theology and healing experience. He wrote over 250 books and pamphlets, besides being a regular contributor to the Voice of Healing magazine. Feeling a call to develop missions and evangelistic work, he sponsored campaigns to international missions. He started a radio program and along with WA Raiford, founded the International Club of Churches and Ministers of the Full Gospel. During 1956, he held a Winning Cross of Nations, in order to send teams of ministers to the whole world. The Voice of Healing magazine changed its name to Christ For The Nations.\n\nHis daughter Shira is married to Pastor Ari Sorko-Ram, who founded the Maoz Israel ministry in Israel.\n\nLindsay taught people to be missionaries in the nations, the power of the name of Jesus, and the baptism in the Holy Spirit. Then in 1970 he founded Christ For The Nations Institute (CFNI) together with his wife. It now has over 1200 students with 250 international students from 50 different nations.\n\nLindsay died unexpectedly on April 1, 1973, in a time of worship in the Institute. He was 66.\n\nFreda Lindsay, his wife, diligently continued his dream of founding apostolic churches, developing ministers and supporting many students. She remained active as the President of CFNI until she retired in her 90s. \"Mom\" Lindsay died in her home on March 26, 2010, at the age of 95 on \"Gordon Lindsay Day,\" a day the institute had designated to remember and honor the legacy of the founder.\n\nHis son, Dennis Lindsay, is the current president of CFNI and continues the work that his parents started.\n\nDr. John Hollar is the current executive director of CFNI.\n\n"}
{"id": "49881809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49881809", "title": "Joisar", "text": "Joisar\n\nThe Joisar (also spelt as Joishar,Joisir, Joysar, Joysir) are a sub-caste of the Bhanushali community in India.\n"}
{"id": "50301891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50301891", "title": "Joseph Colgan", "text": "Joseph Colgan\n\nBishop Joseph Colgan, DD, was an Irish born Roman Catholic Archbishop of Madras, India. \nBorn on April 1, 1824 in Donore, County Westmeath, he studied in Navan, and for the priesthood in Maynooth College. Ordained in 1846 in 1847 he moved to India, where he served as a School principal, and Army Chaplin and priest in the Madras Vicarate.\nDr. Colgan was honoured becoming a Fellow of Madras University.\nDr. Colgan was appointed Bishop of Madras in 1882 succeeding Bishop Stephen Fennelly and became the first Archbishop of Madras in 1886, he served as archbishop until he died on February 13, 1911.\n"}
{"id": "15356201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15356201", "title": "Kirat Mundhum", "text": "Kirat Mundhum\n\nKirat Mundhum (also \"Kirati Mundhum\"), are the stories recited/sung by the shamans (called 'Fedangma/Samba') of the Kirati ethnic groups of Nepal: Limbu, Rai, Sunuwar and Yakkha peoples of Nepal, India, Myanmar and now practiced in the UK, China, USA and many other countries. The practice is also known as \"Kirat Veda\", \"Kirat-Ko Veda\" or \"Kirat Ko Ved\". According to some scholars, such as Tom Woodhatch, it is a blend of animism (e.g., ancestor worshiping of Sumnima/Paruhang and Yuma Sammang/Tagera Ningwaphumang), Saivism, . It is practiced by about 3.1% of the Nepali population. Before it was recognized as a religion on the Nepali census, 36% of the Kirati population claimed to follow the Kirat religion, but when it was recognized this figure increased to 73.9%, a 157% increase in the Nepali Kiratis.\nalso \nIn addition to ancestor worship, Kiranti people also worship Mother Nature.\n\nIt has the religious scripture and folk literature of the Kirat people of Nepal. All four Kirats (Limbu, Rai, Sunuwar and Yakkha) have slightly different religious texts. Religious texts means the power of great strength \" Mundhum\" in the Limbu language, Mewahang rai call it \"muddum\", Yakka rai as \"mintum\", Sunuwar as \"mukdum\" among Kulung rai as \"ridum\" and Chamling rai as \"dum\". It covers many aspects of the Kirat culture, customs and traditions that existed before Vedic civilisation in South Asia.\n\nThe religious texts for each tribe consists of customs, habits, rituals, traditions, and myths passed down from the Kirati tribe's ancestors. Religious texts serve, in a way, as customary laws which guide Kirats in their daily lives. Their religious texts also distinguishes each Kiranti tribe from other Kirati and non-Kiratis as well.\n\nKirats practice shamanism and their rituals are mostly related to the worship of mother nature, ancestors, sun, moon, wind, fire and main pillar of house. Almost all sacred rituals, in Rai, are performed by \"nakchong\", the Rai tribal priest. Similarly Limbus have phɛdɑŋmɑ/bɑ, yɛbɑ/mɑ, sɑmbɑ/mɑ to perform rituals accordingly. Their supreme deity \"Tagera Ningwaphuma: tɑgɛrɑ niŋwɑphumɑ\" is personified as Yuma Sammang as female and Theba Sammang as male in earthly form. Some Limbus have their own distinct form of worship known as Yuma Sammang is mother of all the Limbus their follower are Yumaism; they venerate a supreme goddess.\n\nAll four Kirats celebrate some similar and different festivals throughout the year. Some common festivals are Udhauli, Ubhauli and New year Yele Sambat (Maghe Sankranti).\n\nSakela is the main festival of Khambu Kirat [Rai], in this festival they worship mother nature and their Ancestor's [who is believed to be staying in their Chulla (fire place build by three stone, each stone has a unique meaning) and garden]. This festival is celebrated twice a year distinguished by two names Ubhauli and Udhauli. Sakela Ubhauli is celebrated during Baisakh Purnima (full moon day, which lies in the month of Baisakh in calendars of the Indian Subcontinent.) and Sakela Udhauli is celebrated during the full moon day in the month of Mangh. In Ubhauli they prey for the goodness of family and good weather for cultivation and in Udhauli they thanks the mother nature and ancestor for their blessing and good harvest. \n\nIn both Ubhauli and Udhauli they sacrifice a rooster and worship by Ginger, Rice, homemade alcohol, and tree resin (resin is put in the burning coal for fragrance) and conduct a Sakela dance. In this dance they performs all the daily life activity (example planting rice, harvesting etc.) and also try to copy the behavior of animals and birds which are part of their day to day life. The Limbu Kirat celebrate udhauli Chasok Tangnam on the day of Mangsir Purnima and Ubhauli (Yokwa Tongnam) in the month of Baisakh. Other Kirats (Yakkha and Sunuwars) also celebrate in their own way. Sakela celebration is the prayer to Goddess of Nature for good crops and protection from natural calamities.\n\nThe celebration of Sakela is also known as Chandi Nach Murat. On Chandi Nach, they worship Durga, who is known to them as Chandi, or Chandika. (Worship of Durga among the Himalayan Kiratas is arguably written in the \"Harivamsha Purana\".) Durga Puja is still performed by a few Kirants.\n\nTihar is another festival that was added first in the Veda. It is also known as Deepavali and Lakshmi Puja.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47098666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47098666", "title": "Kouachra", "text": "Kouachra\n\nKouachra (also spelled as Kaweishra or Kavashra) is a village in Akkar Governorate, Lebanon. It is located approximately north of Beirut and north of Tripoli.\n\nKouachra is located in Akkar District, near Al Qoubaiyat about an hour's drive from Tripoli. The village is situated on flat terrain at an altitude of above sea level. The village has a small artificial lake.\n\nKouachra has a population of about 2,800 people, mostly of Sunni Turkish origin. And most of its residents are farmers.\n\nThe villagers support the Future Movement political party.\n\nOwing to its Turkish ethnic identity, the village was visited by the Prime Minister of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in 2010 and has received Turkish developmental assistance and funding, including university scholarships in Turkey.\n\nAccording to one local resident: \"After Ottoman rule ended in Lebanon, we decided to stay on our land. We still maintain our Turkish language and traditions.\"\n\nThe village also houses several hundred Syrian Turkmen who have fled the Syrian Civil War.\n\n"}
{"id": "20659541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20659541", "title": "Koyash", "text": "Koyash\n\nKoyash (Turkish: \"Kuyaş\") is the god of sun in Turkish mythology.\n\nGök Tanrı created the earth with rays of sun light, thus, Koyash took part in the creation of earth. Solar rays are also considered to be \"strings\" between the sun and the spirits of plants, animals and humans.\n\nTurks who worship Koyash turn towards the sunrise when praying. Koyash is the son of Gok Tengri \"Sky God\" (Tenger means sky in Mongolian) and the Earth Goddess. The power and vital force of the Sun God, making it a priority to bow to him each morning as he rises. Solar rays are strings that link the spirits of plants to heaven, and considered a medium for transmitting Tengri into infants. Koyash is often depicted as a fiery bird or a winged horse. These images are often used to adorn things such as ceramic pots and earrings in ancient times.\n\nThe sun god Koyash can make \"solar strands\" from his hands capable of ensnaring and burning his victims. To the Altai people, the sun represented light, warmth, and growth. This made the sun deity very important, as the sun was seen as the ruler of all that he created. Then he is portrayed as a warrior.\n\nThe Sun (also Koyash) was the son of Gök-Tengri (Sky God) and the Toprak Ana (Earth Goddess). The Turkish people and Mongols honoured the power and vital force of the Sun God. Reportedly the Huns, leaving their villages in the morning, welcomed the rising sun and bowed towards him. Altai people would turn towards the sunrise when praying. They worshipped the Sun because Gok-Tengri supervised the creation of the world by the Sun’s rays, which are but strings linking the spirits of plants to the Sun. Likewise solar rays were considered a medium for transmitting the life force sent by Tengri to the infant.\n\nA vivid example is the legend of the birth of An Lushan by a Shamaness. At his conception it was said that a ray of light penetrated the yurt. Alan-Goa, the mother of the Mongols, conceived from a ray that penetrated the yurt through a smoke hole. The Turkish people associated the Sun’s path in the sky with the flight of a fire-bird or a winged horse. Flying (winged) horses as symbols of the Sun were widely used in the cosmological myths of Turkish peoples. And other animals (rams, deer, bulls) were also connected with the Sun.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342569", "title": "Kuzari", "text": "Kuzari\n\nThe Kuzari, full title The Book of Refutation and Proof in Support of the Abased Religion (), also known as the Book of the Kuzari, () is one of the most famous works of the medieval Spanish Jewish philosopher and poet Judah Halevi, completed around 1140. It is regarded as one the most important apologetic works of Jewish philosophy.\n\nDivided into five parts (\"ma'amarim\" – articles), it takes the form of a dialogue between a rabbi and a pagan. The pagan is then mythologized as the king of the Khazars who has invited the rabbi to instruct him in the tenets of Judaism. Originally written in Arabic, the book was translated by numerous scholars, including Judah ben Saul ibn Tibbon, into Hebrew and other languages.\n\nThe question of whether Halevi's work had any historical basis regarding the Khazars' conversion to Judaism is controversial among scholars.\n\nAfter a short account of the incidents preceding the conversion of the king, and of his conversations with a philosopher, a Christian, and a Muslim concerning their respective beliefs, a Jew appears on the stage, and by his first statement startles the king; for, instead of giving him proofs of the existence of God, he asserts and explains the miracles performed by Him in favor of the Israelites.\n\nThe king expresses his astonishment at this exordium, which seems to him incoherent; but the Jew replies that the existence of God, the creation of the world, etc., being taught by religion, do not need any speculative demonstrations. Further, he propounds the principle upon which his religious system is founded; namely, that revealed religion is far superior to natural religion. For the aim of ethical training, which is the object of religion, is not to create in man good intentions, but to cause him to perform good deeds. This aim can not be attained by philosophy, which is undecided as to the nature of good, but can be secured by religious training, which teaches what is good. As science is the sum of all truth found by successive generations, so religious training is based upon a set of traditions; in other words, history is an important factor in the development of human culture and science.\n\nHalevi writes that as the Jews are the only depositaries of a written history of the development of the human race from the beginning of the world, the superiority of their traditions can not be denied. Halevi asserts that no comparison is possible between Jewish culture, which in his view is based upon religious truth, and Greek culture, which is based upon science only. He holds that the wisdom of Greek philosophers lacked that divine support with which the Israelite prophets were endowed. Had a trustworthy tradition that the world was created out of nothing been known to Aristotle, he would have supported it by at least as strong arguments as those advanced by him to prove the eternity of matter. Belief in the eternity of matter, however, is not absolutely contrary to Jewish religious ideas; for the Biblical narrative of the Creation refers only to the beginning of the human race, and does not preclude the possibility of preexistent matter.\n\nStill, relying upon tradition, the Jews believe in \"creatio ex nihilo,\" which theory can be sustained by as powerful arguments as those advanced in favor of the belief in the eternity of matter. The objection that the Absolutely Infinite and Perfect could not have produced imperfect and finite beings, made by the Neoplatonists to the theory of \"creatio ex nihilo,\" is not removed by attributing the existence of all mundane things to the action of nature; for the latter is only a link in the chain of causes having its origin in the First Cause, which is God.\n\nHalevi now attempts to demonstrate the superiority of his religion, Judaism. The preservation of the Israelites in Egypt and in the wilderness, the delivery to them of the Law on Mount Sinai, and their later history are to him so many evident proofs of their superiority. He impresses upon the king the fact that the favor of God can be won only by accomplishing the precepts in their totality, and that those precepts are binding only on the adherents of Judaism. The question why the Jews were favored with God's instruction is answered in the Kuzari at I:95, as based upon their pedigree, i.e., Noah’s most pious son was Shem. His most pious son was Arpachshad etc. Abraham was Arpachshad's descendant. Isaac his most pious son and Jacob his most pious. The sons of Jacob were all worthy and their children became the Jews. The Jew then shows that the immortality of the soul, resurrection, reward, and punishment are all implied in Scripture and are referred to in Jewish writings.\n\nIn the second essay Judah enters into a detailed discussion of some of the theological questions hinted at in the preceding one. To these belongs in the first place that of the divine attributes. Judah rejects entirely the doctrine of essential attributes which had been propounded by Saadia Gaon and Bahya ibn Paquda. For him there is no difference between essential and other attributes. Either the attribute affirms a quality in God, in which case essential attributes can not be applied to Him more than can any other, because it is impossible to predicate anything of Him, or the attribute expresses only the negation of the contrary quality, and in that case there is no harm in using any kind of attributes. 'Accordingly, Judah divides all the attributes found in the Bible into three classes: active, relative, and negative, which last class comprises all the essential attributes expressing mere negations.\n\nThe question of attributes being closely connected with that of anthropomorphism, Judah enters into a lengthy discussion on this point. Although opposed to the conception of the corporeality of God, as being contrary to Scripture, he would consider it wrong to reject all the sensuous concepts of anthropomorphism, as there is something in these ideas which fills the human soul with the awe of God.\n\nThe remainder of the essay comprises dissertations on the following subjects: the excellence of Israel, the land of prophecy, which is to other countries what the Jews are to other nations; the sacrifices; the arrangement of the Tabernacle, which, according to Judah, symbolizes the human body; the prominent spiritual position occupied by Israel, whose relation to other nations is that of the heart to the limbs; the opposition evinced by Judaism toward asceticism, in virtue of the principle that the favor of God is to be won only by carrying out His precepts, and that these precepts do not command man to subdue the inclinations suggested by the faculties of the soul, but to use them in their due place and proportion; the excellence of the Hebrew language, which, although sharing now the fate of the Jews, is to other languages what the Jews are to other nations and what Israel is to other lands.\n\nThe third essay is devoted to the refutation of the teachings of Karaism and to the history of the development of the oral tradition, the Talmud. Judah ha-Levi shows that there is no means of carrying out the precepts without having recourse to oral tradition; and that such tradition has always existed may be inferred from many passages of the Bible, the very reading of which is dependent upon it, since there were no vowels and accents in the original text.\n\nThe fourth essay opens with an analysis of the various names of God found in the Bible. According to Judah, all these names, with the exception of the Tetragrammaton, are attributes expressing the various states of God's activity in the world. The multiplicity of names no more implies a multiplicity in His essence than do the multifarious influences of the rays of the sun on various bodies imply a multiplicity of suns. To the intuitive vision of the prophet the actions proceeding from God appear under the images of the corresponding human actions. Angels are God's messengers; and either they exist for a length of time, or they are created only for special purposes.\n\nFrom the names of God and the essence of angels Judah passes to his favorite theme and shows that the views of the Prophets are a purer source for a knowledge of God than the teachings of the philosophers. Although he professes great reverence for the \"Sefer Yetẓirah,\" from which he quotes many passages, he hastens to add that the theories of Abraham elucidated therein had been held by the patriarch before God revealed Himself to him. The essay concludes with examples of the astronomical and medical knowledge of the ancient Hebrews.\n\nThe fifth and last essay is devoted to a criticism of the various philosophical systems known at the time of the author. Judah attacks by turns the Aristotelian cosmology, psychology, and metaphysics. To the doctrine of emanation, based, according to him, upon the Aristotelian cosmological principle that no simple being can produce a compound being, he objects in the form of the following query: \"Why did the emanation stop at the lunar sphere? Why should each intelligence think only of itself and of that from which it issued and thus give birth to one emanation, thinking not at all of the preceding intelligences, and thereby losing the power to give birth to many emanations?\"\n\nHe argues against the theory of Aristotle that the soul of man is his thought and that only the soul of the philosopher will be united, after the death of the body, with the active intellect. \"Is there,\" he asks, \"any curriculum of the knowledge one has to acquire to win immortality? How is it that the soul of one man differs from that of another? How can one forget a thing once thought of?\" and many other questions of the kind. He shows himself especially severe against the Motekallamin, whose arguments on the creation of the world, on God and His unity, he terms dialectic exercises and mere phrases.\n\nHowever, Judah ha-Levi is against philosophical speculation only in matters concerning Creation, God, etc.; and he follows the Greek philosophers in treating of the creation of the material world. Thus he admits that every being is made up of matter and form. The movement of the spheres formed the sphere of the elements, from the fusion of which all beings were created. This fusion, which varied according to climate, gave to matter the potentiality to receive from God a variety of forms, from the mineral, which is the lowest in the scale of creation, to man, who is the highest because of his possessing, in addition to the qualities of the mineral, vegetable, and animal, a hylic intellect which is influenced by the active intellect. This hylic intellect, which forms the rational soul, is a spiritual substance and not an accident, and is therefore imperishable.\n\nThe discussion concerning the soul and its faculties leads naturally to the question of free will. Judah upholds the doctrine of free will against the Epicureans and the Fatalists, and endeavors to reconcile it with the belief in God's providence and omniscience.\n\nAlthough the Kuzari failed to stem the philosophical flood which, at the time of the appearance of the work, was inundating Judaism, it exercised a great influence upon the theologians. It was much studied; and traces of it are to be found in all the theological and Kabbalistic writings of the Middle Ages.\n\nThe study of the Kuzari seems to have become very popular in the fifteenth century. No less than six commentaries on it appeared in the first half of that century. Many translations and commentaries on this work, both religious and critical, have been written since then. It has had a resurgence of popularity in the Orthodox Jewish community in the modern era.\n\nBesides the Hebrew translation of Judah ibn Tibbon, which passed through eleven editions (1st ed. Fano, 1506), another rendering into Hebrew was made by Judah ben Isaac Cardinal, at the beginning of the thirteenth century.\n\nIn 1887 the Arabic original was published for the first time by Hartwig Hirschfeld, and in 1977 a modern critical text was published by David H. Baneth. Parallel to his Arabic edition, Hirschfeld also published a critical edition of the Ibn Tibbon translation of the text, based upon six medieval manuscripts. In 1885, Hirschfeld published the first German translation from the Arabic original, and in 1905 his English translation from Arabic appeared. In 1972, the first modern translation by Yehudah Even-Shemuel into Hebrew from the Arabic original was published. In 1994, a French translation by Charles Touati from the Arabic original was published. In 1997, a Hebrew translation by Rabbi Yosef Qafih from the Arabic original was published, which is now in its fourth edition (published in 2013). A 2009 English translation by Rabbi N. Daniel Korobkin is in print by Feldheim Publishers.\n\nAs mentioned above, six commentaries were printed in the fifteenth century, four of them known to us:\n\n\nAnd two commentaries of two students of Rabbi Shlomo Ben Menachem: Rabbi Yaakov Ben Parisol and Rabbi Netanel Ben Nechemya Hacaspi. (For more information, see the translation of Yehudah Even-Shemuel, preface, p. 53).\n\nIn the 20th century, several more commentaries were written, including:\n\n\nAll the above commentaries are in Hebrew.\n\nRabbi Eliyahu of Vilna, said that the \"Kuzari\" is a holy and pure book, and it contains the basics of the Jewish faith. \"Mahariaz Enzil\", a student of the Ketzos HaChoshen, writes in his book that the \"Kuzari\" is the holy of the holies.\n\nMany other references can be found in the preface of Yehudah Even-Shemuel to his translation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "93355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93355", "title": "Lenape mythology", "text": "Lenape mythology\n\nLenape mythology is the mythology of the Lenape people, an indigenous people of the Northeastern Woodlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "3208634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3208634", "title": "List of Christians in science and technology", "text": "List of Christians in science and technology\n\nThis is a list of Christians in science and technology. Persons in this list should have their Christianity as relevant to their notable activities or public life, and who have publicly identified themselves as Christians or as of a Christian denomination.\n\n\n\n\nAccording to \"100 Years of Nobel Prizes\" a review of Nobel prizes award between 1901 and 2000 reveals that (65.4%) of Nobel Prizes Laureates, have identified Christianity in its various forms as their religious preference. Overall, Christians have won a total of 72.5% of all the Nobel Prizes in Chemistry, 65.3% in Physics, 62% in Medicine, 54% in Economics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37931162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37931162", "title": "List of Quaker meeting houses", "text": "List of Quaker meeting houses\n\nThis is a list of Quaker meeting houses. Numerous Quaker meeting houses are individually notable, either for their congregations or events or for architecture of their historic buildings. A number of United Kingdom ones are registered as listed buildings, and a number in the United States are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n\n\nBritain Yearly Meeting is the organization of Quakers in England, Scotland, Wales, the Isle of Man, and the Channel Islands. Several meeting houses have been listed for their architectural merit. Notable individual meeting houses include:\n\nSeveral meeting houses are no longer in use by friends, but are still listed buildings:\n\n\"See also Friends meeting houses in Pennsylvania\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6948695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6948695", "title": "List of scientific skeptics", "text": "List of scientific skeptics\n\nThis is a list of notable people that promote or practice scientific skepticism. In general, they favor science and are opposed to pseudoscience and quackery. They are generally skeptical of parapsychology, the paranormal, and alternative medicine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1523911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1523911", "title": "Liturgy of Preparation", "text": "Liturgy of Preparation\n\nThe Liturgy of Preparation, also Prothesis () or Proskomedia ( \"Proskomidē\" \"an offering, an oblation\"), is the name given in the Eastern Orthodox Church to the act of preparing the bread and wine for the Eucharist. The Liturgy of Preparation is done quietly before the public part of the Divine Liturgy begins, and symbolizes the \"hidden years\" of Christ's earthly life.\n\nOnly very specific elements may be offered at the Divine Liturgy:\n\nThe bread used for the Liturgy is referred to as prosphora. A prosphoron is a round loaf of leavened bread baked in two layers to represent the two natures of Christ. It has a square seal on the top side which has inscribed on it a cross and the Greek letters IC (an abbreviation in Greek for \"Jesus\") XC (\"Christ\") and NIKA (\"Conquers\"). The portion of the loaf that is cut out along this seal is the Lamb (Host), from which all are communicated, and therefore must be proportionately large for the number of communicants.\n\nProsphora must be made using only the finest wheat flour, water, salt, and yeast. It should be freshly baked and without blemish.\n\nThe Greeks use one large loaf for the Liturgy of Preparation, with a large round seal on it inscribed not only with the square seal mentioned above (from which the Lamb is taken), but also markings indicating where the portions for the Theotokos, the Ranks, the Living and Dead are removed (see Proskomedie, below).\n\nThose churches which follow Slavic usage use five small loaves, recalling the five loaves from which Christ fed the multitude (). Normally all are stamped with a small square seal, though special seals for the Theotokos are sometimes used.\n\nIn all traditions, only the Lamb is actually consecrated, other portions which are removed from the prosphora are memorials, but are never to be used for Communion.\n\nThe Wine used must be red grape wine, and it must be fermented. Orthodox tend to favor altar wine that is somewhat sweet, though this is not a requirement.\n\nThese elements are referred to collectively as the \"Gifts\", both before and after the Consecration.\n\nThe Priest's Service Book states that, before celebrating the Divine Liturgy, the priest must be reconciled to all men, keep his heart from evil thoughts, and be fasting since midnight. The same rules apply to the deacon.\n\nThe beginning of the Liturgy of Preparation should be timed so that it is concluded slightly before the Reader finishes reading the Third Hour and Sixth Hour.\n\nThe priests and deacons celebrating the liturgy stand together in front of the holy doors of the iconostasis, venerate the icons, and say special entrance prayers before they enter into the altar. At the end of these prayers, they bow to the throne of the bishop who oversees the church, or, if it is a monastery, the abbot, acknowledging the authority of their spiritual superiors, without whose permission they may not celebrate the divine services.\n\nThey then venerate the holy table and put on their vestments. Before putting on each vestment the priest says a prayer, usually drawn from the Psalms, bless the vestment, and kiss the cross that is sewn onto it. The deacon brings his vestments to the priest to bless and then kisses the priest's hand and withdraws to vest, saying the same prayers for the sticharia as the priest and kissing the cross on each vestment. Each subdeacon and server vesting bring his sticharion to the priest for him to bless, and then kisses the cross on it before vesting. If a bishop is present, the clergy bring their vestments for him to bless before putting them on.\n\nAfter vesting, the priest and deacon wash their hands, saying the Prayer of the Washing of Hands (Psalm 26:6-12) They then go to the Prothesis (Table of Oblation) where the Gifts are to be prepared.\n\nIf there are several priests concelebrating, usually only one—traditionally, the most junior— celebrates the Proskomedia. Others may assist in taking out particles for the living and the dead. In the Greek traditions (Constantinople, Antioch, etc.) all particles are frequently taken from one large prosphoron which is stamped with a seal that serves as a template, but in the Slavic traditions there are several (usually five) prosphora, from which particles are taken as described below.\n\nThe priest takes a prosphoron and blessed it three times, making the sign of the cross over it with the liturgical spear. Then, cutting on all four sides of the square seal on the prosphoron, he removes a cube (the Lamb), taking from both layers of the loaf, and places it in the center of the diskos. He then cuts the underside of the Lamb, making a cross, then turns the Lamb right side up and pierces it with the spear, saying the words from the Gospel (). (See Lamb for more details).\n\nThe deacon mingles a little water with the wine that is poured in the chalice and presents it to the priest for him to bless. The deacon then pours the wine and water into the chalice, as the priest says, \"Blessed be the union of Thy holy things, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.\"\n\nNext the priest takes up the second prosphoron, blesses it with the spear, and cuts a large, triangular particle from it, which he places on the diskos next to the Lamb in commemoration of the Theotokos. This loaf (if it is a separate loaf) is sometimes sealed with an icon of the Mother of God, or with her monogram.\n\nNext, the priest takes up the prosphoron of the Nine Ranks. From this loaf are taken smaller triangular particles in commemoration of the various ranks of saints. There are some differences between the Greek and the Slavic texts as to which particular saints are named, but the intent is that all of the saints are included. Saint John the Forerunner and the Patron Saint of the church or monastery are always named. The number nine was chosen because that is the traditional number of the ranks of angels.\n\nThese nine particles are placed to the left of the Lamb (i.e., to the priest's right, as he looks down on the diskos).\n\nThen the priest takes up the prosphoron for the Living. He takes out a larger particle in commemoration of the Patriarch (or Synod of Bishops), and a second larger particle in commemoration of the Ruler (in former times, this would have been the Emperor, but nowadays it reflects the government of the local nation in which the church is located). He then takes out smaller particles in commemoration of others among the living. He must always commemorate the Bishop who ordained him (if he is still among the living), the clergy who are concelebrating with him, and any living Orthodox Christian whom he wishes. Churches and monasteries often have diptychs (memorial books) of the living and departed who should be commemorated at every Liturgy.\n\nAmong the Slavic peoples, it is customary for the laity to offer small prosphora in commemoration of those living and the departed whom they would like to have prayed for during the Liturgy. These often are smaller than the five prosphora used by the priest. They hand these to the priest together with their list of names, and he takes particles out (living from the top of the loaf, departed from the bottom) and place them on the diskos. The loaves are returned to the faithful.\n\nAll of the particles for the living are placed in a line below the Lamb and the particles for the Theotokos and saints.\n\nOnly Orthodox Christians may be commemorated on the diskos at the Proskomedia.\n\nFrom the prosphoron of the departed the priest takes a larger particle as a general memorial of the departed hierarchs, rulers and the founders of the local church or monastery. He then takes out smaller particles in commemoration of departed Orthodox Christians. He commemorates the bishop who ordained him (if he is departed) and any of the departed whom he will, as well as the names in the diptychs and those presented by the faithful.\n\nAll of the particles for the departed are placed in a line below the particles for the living.\n\nBefore the conclusion, any concelebrating priests who would like to make their own commemorations of the living and the departed may do so.\n\nFor the last commemoration, the priest takes out a particle for himself, saying: \"Remember, O Lord, mine unworthy self, and pardon me every transgression, whether voluntary or involuntary.\"\n\nThe deacon places incense in the censer and holds it up for the priest to bless. The priest blesses the incense saying the Prayer of the Censer. Next, the priest takes the Asterisk (star cover), holds it over the censer and then places it on the diskos, saying: \"And the star came and stood over the place where the young child was.\"\n\nHe then holds each of the smaller veils over the censer and places them on the discos and the chalice, respectively, saying appropriate prayers for each.\n\nThen he takes the larger veil, called the Aër, wraps it around the censer and then covers the chalice and diskos together.\n\nFinally, he takes the censer from the deacon and censes the covered Gifts. He then says the concluding Prayer of Offering (unless a bishop is celebrating; see below).\n\nAfterwards, the deacon performs a full censing of the prothesis, the holy table, the sanctuary, the entire church and the people while he recites the following hymn and Psalm 50 quietly to himself:\nIn the Tomb with the body, and in Hades with the soul, in Paradise with the thief, and on the Throne with the Father and the Spirit, wast thou, O Christ, who art everywhere present and fillest all things.\n\nWhen a bishop is serving the divine liturgy, one of the priests and the deacons and lower clergy vest and the Liturgy of Preparation is performed as normal with a few omissions which are later performed by the bishop: the other clergy who are serving are not commemorated, the concluding Prayer of Offering is not said, and the offerings are not censed. When the liturgy neither immediately follows matins nor is in conjunction with vespers, the reading of the hours generally does not commence until after the arrival of the bishop.\n\nWhen it is time, the bishop enters formally into the church and the deacons recite the Entrance Prayers and he is then vested by the subdeacons while the deacons read the Vesting Prayers. Then the Reader begins the Little Hours or vespers commences or matins conclude, as the case may be.\n\nDuring the great litany the bishop himself recites the Prayer of Offering omitted earlier from the usual order of the prothesis.\n\nJust before the Great Entrance, the bishop commemorates those whom he wishes, taking out particles from a special prosphoron that has been prepared for him. Then each priest, deacon, and server approaches the bishop and kissing the bishop's right shoulder says his own name, by which the bishop takes out a particle commemorating him. Finally, the bishop censes the offerings.\n\nDuring Great Lent it is not permitted to celebrate the Divine Liturgy on weekdays. However, on Wednesdays and Fridays the faithful may receive Holy Communion from the reserved Mysteries (Sacrament) at the Liturgy of the Presanctified Gifts. In order to provide for these services, on the Sunday before, the priest must cut out extra Lambs each Presanctified Liturgy there will be that week.\n\nDuring Bright Week (The week following Easter Sunday) most of the services are quite radically different than during the rest of the year. However, at the Liturgy of Preparation, only the Entrance Prayers change; everything else remains the same.\n\nThe various Oriental Orthodox Churches also have Liturgies of Preparation before the commencement of the public portion of the Divine Liturgy. `Some of these are very simple, and some are more complex. They all involve the entry of the clergy, vesting and preparing the Gifts of bread and wine, accompanied by appropriate prayers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15163357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15163357", "title": "Macharomancy", "text": "Macharomancy\n\nMacharomancy (Greek \"makhaira\", a short sword or a dagger, and \"manteia\", prophecy; alternative spellings are machæromancy, machairomancy) is a form of divination by interpreting knives, daggers or swords, one of many methods of divination based on the use of weapons (cf belomancy – by arrows, axinomancy – by axes, and other).\n\nThere are different methods of macharomancy. Throughout the ages readers gazed into polished knives, daggers or sword blades, interpreted daggers flying and spinning, etc.\n\nOne of the most popular methods of macharomancy consists of placing a dagger in the center of the circle with letters and numbers. Spirits are then asked a question, and a dagger is spun. Each time it stops, a reader writes down the letter or number to which the blade points. Spinning is repeated until the answer is spelled out, usually scambled or in an ancient language such as Latin or Greek.\n\nDagger divinations were very popular among gypsies. Readers place a dagger onto a wooden board about 30 cm, normally used for cutting bread, and spin the dagger. The board is divided into 15 sectors, with each sector having its own meaning. The reader spins a dagger three times and interpret the answer depending on which sector the blade of the dagger points to. One of these three answers (not necessarily the first) would be the answer to the question asked to spirits, while others may be interpreted in some connection to it or sometimes ignored.\n\nThe most common answers are below:\n<br>\n1. Yes <br>\n2. No <br>\n3. Be patient <br>\n4. Beware of false friends <br>\n5. You will hear the good news soon <br>\n6. Wait for a letter <br>\n7. This venture will be successful <br>\n8. Unexpected guest <br>\n9. Love <br>\n10. Tears will turn to joy <br>\n11. News from afar <br>\n12. New admirer <br>\n13. Unexpected encounter <br>\n14. Travel <br>\n15. Important letter \n\nAnother divination method, which was popular in Scotland, traditionally performed on August Eve (July 31st) to predict marriages and deaths of the following year consisted of throwing sickles (a semicircular blade attached to a short handle, used for cutting grain or tall grass) into the air and then drawing omens from the positions in which they fall. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31464519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31464519", "title": "Mahyavanshi", "text": "Mahyavanshi\n\nMahyavanshi are a Rajput caste of India, who were originally identified with Mayavats and started a successful movement in the 20th century to establish their identity as a branch of Mayavat rulers.\n\nThe new nomenclature of \"Mahyavanshi\" was given to a large number of the Vankar community in South Gujarat via a Government of India circular in 1939. This was due largely to the efforts of K. M. Munshi, then Home Minister of Bombay Presidency, and Dr. Purshottam Solanki, representative of the Depressed Classes of Gujarat, who stressed that its members were descendants of ancient rulers known as Mayavats. Later, in 1968, after the Indian annexation of Daman from the Portuguese, the community in Daman were given the same status.\n\nIn the 1930s-40s, many depressed classes and communities were active in trying to change their caste name and elevate their social status to that of Rajput. These included the Khalpa, who wanted to be known as \"Rohit\"desire to be known as \"Rishi\", as well as the Vankar claim to Mahyavanshi status. Of these, only the Mahyavanshi claim was successful in gaining official recognition from the British Raj administration. In some cases, they had a history of working as butlers for members of the various European East India Companies in Surat since probably the 17th century and their success came because they were able to mobilise public opinion and procure support for their cause from both from British and Indian leaders and through books detailing their claimed history. The sociologist A. M. Shah says that the Mahyavanshi \"have an elaborate mythology, caste journals, and written \"laws\" to regulate the affairs of the caste\".\n\nA prominent figure in re-writing the history of the /Vankars was Makanji Kuber Makwana, who wrote several works on their putative ancient history and genealogy that linked them to the Mahyavat Rajputs, a branch of the Parmara clan who had ruled in eastern Bengal. He is regarded as the spearhead of the \"Mahyavat Rajput Movement\", which was the name given to the campaign to \"regain\" their Rajput status. The books of historical research concerning the Mahayavanshi were mainly published around the first decade of 20th century. These books included Makwana's \"Mayavat Rajput Prakash\" (1908) (A Light on Mayavat Rajputs), \"Mayavat Rajputoday\" (1911) (The Rise of Mayavat Rajput) and \"Mahyavanshi Atle Shu?\" (1911) (Who is a Mahyavanshi?) as well as Phakir Jeevan Mevashi's \"Mayavat Ranshingu arthat Khudarano Karta\".\n\nIn a 1931 lecture, Munshi stressed that the Mahyavanshi were the descendants of the Hattiavanshi king Arjuna, arguing that it was because of the slaughter of Parashurama that they had been relegated to a lower caste status.\n\nOthers involved in this affirming this identity were Garibdasji Ramdasji and other Mahants of Ramanandi sect, Phakir Jeevan Mevasi, besides several of their community leaders spread across Bombay State (present day Maharashtra and Gujarat), Sindh ( Karachi and Raban ), Portuguese India ( Nani and Moti Daman ) and also from South Africa, where their population was living in cities like Johannesburg and Pretoria, who in unison impressed upon the government for revision of their social status.\n\nThe Mahyavanshis are primarily divided into exogamous clans like Mathariya, Aatekar Pardinar, Damania, Kantharia, Barodia, Chaseia, Surti, Kosadia, Khanvanshi, Parmar, Rana, Rathod, Gohel, Solanki ,Tawdia Vaghela,Makwana,Zala,Padaya,Maru.\n\nThe community members are mainly located in regions of Gujarat, other than Kutch, and in Daman. There are some in Maharashtra and Rajasthan. The population is particularly numerous in Ahmedabad, Dahod, Mumbai and Surat.\n\n"}
{"id": "8716229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8716229", "title": "Marichi", "text": "Marichi\n\nAccording to Jain scriptures, he was the grandson of the first Jain \"tirthankara\" Rishabhanatha and son of Bharata Chakravartin.He was the founder of Vedanta. He is referred to as one of the previous reincarnations of the 24th Tirthankara Mahavira.\n\nSaptarishi, a Sanskrit dvigu meaning \"seven sages\" are the seven rishis who are extolled at many places in the Vedas and Hindu literature. The Vedic Samhitas never enumerate these rishis by name, though later Vedic texts such as the Brahmanas and Upanisads do so. While earlier texts do not mention Marichi as one of the seven, references can be found in the epic \"Mahabharata\". In some parts of India, people believe these are seven stars of the Big Dipper named \"Vashista\", \"Marichi\", \"Pulastya\", \"Pulaha\", \"Atri\", \"Angiras\" and \"Kratu\". There is another star slightly visible within it, known as \"Arundhati\". He is considered one among the seven great sages, the saptarishis. Marichi, like some of the other sages, followed the path of worldly duties denouncing total renunciation. He had many children, the notable being sage Kashyapa. Dharmavrata was one of the many consorts of the sage. Once she was cursed by the sage to become a stone for no fault of her. She pleaded innocence and proved it by immolating herself. Vishnu was pleased by her devotion. She requested Vishnu to revert her curse, but Vishnu said that the curse could not be reverted, but she would continue to be regarded as Devashila, which would be considered sacred in every Hindu house.\n\nBefore the creation started, Brahma, the Hindu god of creation, needed a few people who can be held responsible for the creation of the remaining Universe. Therefore, he is believed to have created ten Prajapatis (Ruler of the people) from his \"Manas\" (mind) and nine from his body. Marichi is one of the \"manasputras\" of Brahma. The ten Prajapatis are as follows:\n\n\nThe life of Marichi is known more by the account of his descendants, notably by the works of sage Kasyapa. Marichi is then married to Kala and gave birth to Kashyap (Kashyap is also sometimes acknowledged as a Prajapati, who has inherited the right of creation from his father). He is believed to be formed out of the sustained energy of the Hindu god Vishnu. He is believed to have officiated the penance of Brahma at Pushkar, found in modern-day Rajasthan. He is also believed to have visited Bhishma during Mahabharatha, when he was lying on the arrow bed. Marichi is also quoted as the adviser of young Dhruva to pursue austerities. His name is featured in multiple Hindu scriptures like \"Brahmanda Purana\" and the \"Vedas\".\n\nKrishna in the Bhagavad-Gita says, \"Of the Ādityas I am Vishnu, of lights I am the radiant sun, of the Maruts I am Marici, and among the stars I am the moon.\"\n\nIn Jain scriptures, Marichi was the son of Bharata Chakravartin who after many births was born as 24th Tirthankara of Jainism, Mahavira. In his life as Marichi, he became a Jain monk following Rishabhanatha, first tirthankara, but was unable to follow the hard rules of Digambara penance. So he took a robe, pedals and an umberalla and founded his own religion taking Kapila as his first disciple.\n\n"}
{"id": "41178237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41178237", "title": "Post-canonical Buddhist texts", "text": "Post-canonical Buddhist texts\n\nIn Buddhist studies, particularly East Asian Buddhist studies, post-canonical Buddhist texts, Buddhist apocrypha or Spurious Sutras and Sastras designate texts that are not accepted as canonical by some historical Buddhist schools or communities who referred to a canon. The term is principally applied to texts that purport to represent Buddhist teaching translated from Indian texts, but were written in East Asia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40025113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40025113", "title": "Quecholli", "text": "Quecholli\n\nQuecholli is the name of the fourteenth month of the Aztec calendar. It is also a festival in the Aztec religion and the Principal deity is Mixcoatl.It is called the Precious Feather and hunting is done during this season. \n"}
{"id": "13025741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13025741", "title": "Religion in Bhutan", "text": "Religion in Bhutan\n\nThe official religion in Bhutan Vajrayana Buddhism. Bhutan is a Buddhist country by constitution and Buddhism play a vital role in the country. Buddhism is the cultural heritage of Bhutan and its people's identity as well. Freedom of religion is guaranteed by the King. Approximately 75 percent of the population of 770,000 follow either the Drukpa Lineage of the Kagyu school, the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism or another school of Buddhism. The remaining 25 percent mainly Nepalis practice Hinduism.\n\nThe Ngalop people, descendants of Tibetan immigrants, comprise the majority of the population in the western and central areas and mostly follow the Drukpa Lineage of Kagyu Vajrayana.\n\nThe Sharchops, descendants of the country's probable original inhabitants, live in the east. Reportedly, some Sharchops practice Buddhism combined with elements of Bon whereas others practice animism and Hinduism. Several Sharchops hold high positions in the government, the National Assembly, and the court system.\n\nThe government supports both Kagyu and Nyingma Buddhist monasteries. The royal family practices a combination of Nyingma and Kagyu Buddhism and many citizens believe in the concept of \"Kanyin-Zungdrel,\" meaning \"Kagyupa and Ningmapa as one.\"\n\nHindus, mainly in the South, practice Hinduism. There are about 200,000 Hindus mainly ofclhotshampas ethnic living in Bhutan and form 35% of the country population and it is the second largest religion of the nation. The very first Hindu temple was constructed in Thimphu in 2012 by the Je Khenpo, Chief Abbot of Bhutan, and Hindus practice their religion in small to medium-sized groups.\nHinduism is more common among the Lhotshampa ethnic group, although a fair amount of ethnic Lhotshampa also follow Buddhism as well.\n\nBon, the country's animist and shamanistic belief system, revolves around the worship of nature and predates Buddhism. Although Bön priests often officiate and include Bön rituals in Buddhist festivals, very few citizens adhere exclusively to this religious group.\n\nChristians are present in small numbers, especially in the Nepalese ethnic group. According to a 2007 report there were no Christian missionaries in the country, although international Christian relief organizations and Roman Catholic Jesuit priests engaged in education and humanitarian activities.\nChristianity was first brought to Bhutan in the late 17th century by Portuguese Jesuits, but the teachings failed to gain much traction among the devout Buddhists of the Bhutanese people.\n\n0.2% of the population of Bhutan is Muslim. In 2010, the Pew Research Center estimated that 0.2% of the population were Muslims..\n\nThe law provides for freedom of religion; the religious institutions and personalities have a duty \"to promote the spiritual heritage of the country while also ensuring that religion remains separate from politics\" and that religious institutions and personalities remain \"above politics.\" Reflecting the government's stated purpose of preserving individuals' religious and cultural values, the above prohibitive clauses in the Constitution have been interpreted to apply to proselytism and to prohibit religious personalities from voting, respectively.\n\nThe Religious Organizations Act of 2007 aims to protect and preserve the spiritual heritage of Bhutan through providing for the registration and administration of religious organizations. To meet those goals, the Act creates the Chhoedey Lhentshog as the regulatory authority on religious organizations. This body regulates, monitors, and keeps records on all religious organizations in Bhutan, which are in turn required to register and maintain specified corporate formalities.\n\nThrough 2007, there were no reports of violence associated with pressure to conform to Vajrayana beliefs. There were no reports of societal abuse or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.\n"}
{"id": "23602761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23602761", "title": "Sacred herb", "text": "Sacred herb\n\nHerbs are used in many religions – such as in Christianity (myrrh (\"Commiphora myrrha\"), ague root (\"Aletris farinosa\") and frankincense (\"Boswellia\" spp)) and in the partially Christianized Anglo-Saxon pagan Nine Herbs Charm. In Hinduism a form of basil called tulsi is worshipped as a goddess for its medicinal value since the Vedic times. Many Hindus have a Tulsi plant in front of their houses.\n\nHerbs were also considered sacred in European pagan beliefs.\n\nThe best known example is the mistletoe. The European mistletoe, \"Viscum album\", figured prominently in Greek mythology, and is believed to be The Golden Bough of Aeneas, ancestor of the Romans. The Norse god Baldr was killed with mistletoe.\n\nMistletoe bears fruit at the time of the Winter Solstice, the birth of the new year, and may have been used in solstitial rites in Druidic Britain as a symbol of immortality. In Celtic mythology and in druid rituals, it was considered a remedy for barrenness in animals and an antidote to poison, although the fruits of many mistletoes are actually poisonous if ingested as they contain viscotoxins.\n\nVerbena or Vervain has long been associated with divine and other supernatural forces. It was called \"tears of Isis\" in ancient Egypt, and later on \"Juno's tears\". In ancient Greece, it was dedicated to Eos Erigineia. In the early Christian era, folk legend stated that Common Vervain (\"V. officinalis\") was used to staunch Jesus' wounds after his removal from the cross. It was consequently called \"Holy Herb\" or (e.g. in Wales) \"Devil's bane\". The generic name is the ancient Roman term for sacrificial herbs considered very powerful. Pliny the Elder describes \"verbena\" presented on Jupiter altars; it is not entirely clear if this referred to a \"Verbena\" rather than the general term for prime sacrificial herbs.\n\nHazlitt's \"Faiths and Folklore\" (1905) quotes Aubrey's \"Miscellanies\" (1721), to wit:\"Vervain and Dill / Hinder witches from their will.\" In the series of young adult novels \"The Vampire Diaries\", author L. J. Smith uses vervain to protect humans from vampires, in an extension of vervain's fabled magic-suppression powers against witches. In \"The Struggle, Volume II\", the vampire Stefan instructs the human Elena that vervain can \"protect you against bewitchment, and it can keep your mind clear if someone is using Powers against you.\" He tells her how it is prepared and used, \"Once I've extracted the oil from the seeds, you can rub it into your skin, or add it to a bath. And you can make the dried leaves into a sachet and carry it with you, or put it under your pillow at night\", but gives her an unprepared sprig for protection in the meantime.\n\nVervain flowers are engraved on \"cimaruta\", Italian anti-\"stregheria\" charms. In the 1870 \"The History and Practice of Magic\" by \"Paul Christian\" (Jean-Baptiste Pitois) it is employed in the preparation of a mandragora charm:\n\nOther examples of sacred herbs include valerian, yarrow, hemp, and mugwort.\n\nSacred non-psychoactive plants widely used in Native American ritual include sweetgrass, and white sage.\n"}
{"id": "4489786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4489786", "title": "Satnam", "text": "Satnam\n\nSatnam (Gurmukhi:ਸਤਿ ਨਾਮੁ ) is the main word that appears in the Sikh sacred scripture called the Guru Granth Sahib. It is part of the Gurbani shabad called Mool Mantra which is repeated daily by all Sikhs. This word succeeds the word \"Ek-onkar\" which means \"There is only one constant\" or commonly \"There is one God\". The words \"sat\" means \"true/everlasting\" and \"nam\" means \"name\". In this instance, this would mean, \"whose name is truth\". Satnam is referred to God as the Name of God is True and Everlasting.\n\nThe word \"nam\" in Sikhism has two meanings. \"It meant both an application and a symbol of the All-pervading Supreme Reality that sustained the universe. Guru Nanak in his teachings emphasized the need of repeating Sat-Nam to realize the All-pervading Supreme Reality.\"\n"}
{"id": "2785152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2785152", "title": "Shimenawa", "text": "Shimenawa\n\nShimenawa (標縄・注連縄・七五三縄, \"enclosing rope\") are lengths of laid rice straw or hemp rope used for ritual purification in the Shinto religion. They can vary in diameter from a few centimetres to several metres, and are often seen festooned with \"shide\". A space bound by \"shimenawa\" often indicates a sacred or pure space, such as that of a Shinto shrine.\n\n\"Shimenawa\" are believed to act as a ward against evil spirits and are often set up at a ground-breaking ceremony before construction begins on a new building. They are often found at Shinto shrines, \"torii\" gates, and sacred landmarks.\n\nThey are also used around \"yorishiro\" (objects capable of attracting spirits, hence inhabited by spirits). These notably include certain trees, in which case the inhabiting spirits are called \"kodama,\" and cutting down these trees is thought to bring misfortune. In cases of stones, the stones are known as .\n\nA variation of the \"shimenawa\" is used in sumo wrestling by \"yokozuna\" (grand champions) during their entrance ceremonies to denote their rank. This is because the \"yokozuna\" is seen as a living \"yorishiro\" (formally \"shintai\"), and as such is inhabited by a spirit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2888449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2888449", "title": "Special revelation", "text": "Special revelation\n\nSpecial revelation is a theological term used mainly by evangelical scientists and Christian theologians which refers to the belief that knowledge of God and of spiritual matters can be discovered through supernatural means, such as miracles or the scriptures, a disclosure of God's truth through means other than through man's reason. The distinction between Special and General revelation was first elucidated in-depth by the Catholic systematic theologian St. Thomas Aquinas in his discussion of Revelation. This distinction was only then more widely disseminated by evangelical writers who emphasized its scriptural support (e.g. Psalm 19).\n\nEvangelical theologians use the term \"special revelation\" for the belief in God's intervention to make God's will and knowledge available that would not otherwise be available through general revelation. They believe that disclosure of this \"special revelation\" is at specific times to specific persons, and believed by Christian Theologians, to have been generally given through scripture, miracles, and through the person and ministry of Jesus Christ.\n\nOther means by which God reputedly gave special revelation were by \"divine voice or writing\", \"angels\", \"prophets\", \"visions\" \"dreams\", \"divine dictation\", \"inspiration\" and \"Spirit's guidance or guidance from the Holy Ghost\". When reviewing these examples, one can see that they refer to direct revelation, which is now the third type of revelation, as a distinction between special revelation by way of \"self-disclosure through the Bible\" and personal communication from God, some forms of which include actually hearing the voice of God.\n\nSpecial revelation is a contrast to general revelation, which refers to the knowledge of God and spiritual matters which reputedly can be discovered through natural means, such as observation of nature, philosophy and reasoning, conscience or providence. \n\nThe purpose of Special Revelation is to impart the knowledge and understanding of Jesus Christ, salvation and the atonement. Essentially it is knowledge and understanding, \"that is requisite to salvation, that is, an explicit knowledge of Christ and his gospel.\"\n\nThe forms of special revelation as considered by mainstream Christianity are \n\nAlso the following is from Wikipedia Subj: Direct Revelation: \"Direct revelation is classified as special revelation, but the word \"direct\" has come to make this type of revelation distinct.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11126010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11126010", "title": "The Politics of Religious Apostasy", "text": "The Politics of Religious Apostasy\n\nThe Politics of Religious Apostasy: The Role of Apostates in the Transformation of Religious Movements is a 1998 book edited by David G. Bromley. It presents studies by several sociologists of new religious movements on the role played by apostates (described as individuals that leave new religious movements to pursue opposition against their former group.) The volume examines the apostate's testimonies, their motivations, the narratives they construct to discredit their former movements, and their impact on the public controversy between such movements and society.\n\n\"The Social Science Journal\" refers to the book as a \"superb effort to examine in depth the complexity and significance of the apostate role, and to illuminate the processes through which subversive evil is socially constructed. Taken together, the authors contribute a diverse array of theory, data and substantive insights that add to our knowledge of the inner-workings of new religious movements. I recommend this book for classes in organizations, sociology of religion, psychology of religion, group dynamics and related subjects\".\n\nThe book was reviewed in the \"American Journal of Sociology\", that found this work to be a \"remarkably unified collection of high-quality essays by many leading sociologists of new religious movements.\"\n\nThe psychologist Michael Langone argues that some will accept uncritically the positive reports of current members without calling such reports, for example, \"benevolence tales\" or \"personal growth tales\". He asserts that only the critical reports of ex-members are called \"tales\", which he considers to be a term that clearly implies falsehood or fiction. He states that it wasn't until 1996 that a researcher conducted a study to assess the extent to which so called \"atrocity tales\" might be based on fact.\n\n"}
{"id": "165584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165584", "title": "Vestal Virgin", "text": "Vestal Virgin\n\nIn ancient Rome, the Vestals or Vestal Virgins (Latin: \"Vestālēs\", singular \"Vestālis\" ) were priestesses of Vesta, goddess of the hearth. The College of the Vestals and its well-being were regarded as fundamental to the continuance and security of Rome. They cultivated the sacred fire that was not allowed to go out. The Vestals were freed of the usual social obligations to marry and bear children and took a 30-year vow of chastity in order to devote themselves to the study and correct observance of state rituals that were forbidden to the colleges of male priests.\n\nLivy, Plutarch, and Aulus Gellius attribute the creation of the Vestals as a state-supported priestesshood to king Numa Pompilius, who reigned circa 717–673 BC. According to Livy, Numa introduced the Vestals and assigned them salaries from the public treasury. Livy also says that the priestesshood of Vesta had its origins at Alba Longa. The 2nd century antiquarian Aulus Gellius writes that the first Vestal taken from her parents was led away in hand by Numa. Plutarch attributes the founding of the Temple of Vesta to Numa, who appointed at first two priestesses; Servius Tullius increased the number to four. Ambrose alludes to a seventh in late antiquity. Numa also appointed the \"pontifex maximus\" to watch over the Vestals.\n\nThe first Vestals, according to Varro, were named Gegania, Veneneia, Canuleia, and Tarpeia. Tarpeia, daughter of Spurius Tarpeius, was portrayed as traitorous in legend.\n\nThe Vestals became a powerful and influential force in the Roman state. When Sulla included the young Julius Caesar in his proscriptions, the Vestals interceded on Caesar's behalf and gained him pardon. Augustus included the Vestals in all major dedications and ceremonies. They were held in awe, and attributed certain magical powers. Pliny the Elder, for example, in Book 28 of his \"Natural History\" discussing the efficacy of magic, chooses not to refute, but rather tacitly accept as truth:\nThe urban prefect Symmachus, who sought to maintain traditional Roman religion during the rise of Christianity, wrote:\n\nThe College of the Vestals was disbanded and the sacred fire extinguished in 394, by order of the Christian emperor Theodosius. Zosimus records how the Christian noblewoman Serena, a niece of Theodosius, entered the temple and took from the statue of the goddess a necklace and placed it on her own neck. An old woman appeared, the last of the Vestals, who proceeded to rebuke Serena and called down upon her all just punishment for her act of impiety. According to Zosimus, Serena was then subject to dreadful dreams predicting her own untimely death. Augustine would be inspired to write \"The City of God\" in response to murmurings that the capture of Rome and the disintegration of its empire was due to the advent of the Christian era, and its intolerance of the old gods who had defended the city for over a thousand years.\n\nThe chief Vestal (\"Virgo Vestalis Maxima\" or \"Vestalium Maxima\", \"greatest of the Vestals\") oversaw the efforts of the Vestals, and was present in the College of Pontiffs. The \"Vestalis Maxima\" Occia presided over the Vestals for 57 years, according to Tacitus. The last known chief vestal was Coelia Concordia, who stepped down in 394 with the disbanding of the College of the Vestals.\n\nThe \"Vestalium Maxima\" was the most important of Rome's high priestesses. Although the \"Flaminica Dialis\" and the \"regina sacrorum\" each held unique responsibility for certain religious rites, each came into her office as the spouse of another appointed priest, whereas the vestals all held office independently.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, there were only two Vestal Virgins when Numa began the College of the Vestals. This number later increased to four, and then to six. It has been suggested by some authorities that a seventh was added later, but this is doubtful.\n\nThe Vestals were committed to the priestesshood before puberty (when 6–10 years old) and sworn to celibacy for a period of 30 years. These 30 years were divided in turn into decade-long periods during which Vestals were respectively students, servants, and teachers.\n\nAfter her 30-year term of service, each Vestal retired and was replaced by a new inductee. Once retired, a former Vestal was given a pension and allowed to marry. The Pontifex Maximus, acting as the father of the bride, would typically arrange a marriage with a suitable Roman nobleman. A marriage to a former Vestal was highly honoured, and – more importantly in ancient Rome – thought to bring good luck, as well as a comfortable pension.\n\nTo obtain entry into the order, a girl had to be free of physical and mental defects, have two living parents and be a daughter of a free-born resident of Rome. From at least the mid-Republican era, the \"pontifex maximus\" chose Vestals between their sixth and tenth year, by lot from a group of twenty high-born candidates at a gathering of their families and other Roman citizens. Originally, the girl had to be of patrician birth, but membership was opened to plebeians as it became difficult to find patricians willing to commit their daughters to 30 years as a Vestal, and then ultimately even from the daughters of freedmen for the same reason.\n\nThe choosing ceremony was known as a \"captio\" (capture). Once a girl was chosen to be a Vestal, the \"pontifex\" pointed to her and led her away from her parents with the words, \"I take you, Amata, to be a Vestal priestess, who will carry out sacred rites which it is the law for a Vestal priestess to perform on behalf of the Roman people, on the same terms as her who was a Vestal 'on the best terms' \" (thus, with all the entitlements of a Vestal). As soon as she entered the atrium of Vesta's temple, she was under the goddess's service and protection.\n\nTo replace a Vestal who had died, candidates would be presented in the quarters of the chief Vestal for the selection of the most virtuous. Unlike normal inductees, these candidates did not have to be prepubescents, nor even virgins (they could be young widows or even divorcees, though that was frowned upon and thought unlucky), though they were rarely older than the deceased Vestal they were replacing. Tacitus (Annals ii.86) recounts how Gaius Fonteius Agrippa and Domitius Pollio offered their daughters as Vestal candidates in 19 AD to fill such a vacant position. Equally matched, Pollio's daughter was chosen only because Agrippa had been recently divorced. The pontifex maximus (Tiberius) \"consoled\" the failed candidate with a dowry of 1 million sesterces.\n\nTheir tasks included the maintenance of the fire sacred to Vesta, the goddess of the hearth and home, collecting water from a sacred spring, preparation of food used in rituals and caring for sacred objects in the temple's sanctuary. By maintaining Vesta's sacred fire, from which anyone could receive fire for household use, they functioned as \"surrogate housekeepers\", in a religious sense, for all of Rome. Their sacred fire was treated, in Imperial times, as the emperor's household fire.\n\nThe Vestals were put in charge of keeping safe the wills and testaments of various people such as Caesar and Mark Antony. In addition, the Vestals also guarded some sacred objects, including the Palladium, and made a special kind of flour called \"mola salsa\" which was sprinkled on all public offerings to a god.\n\nThe dignities accorded to the Vestals were significant.\n\nAllowing the sacred fire of Vesta to die out was a serious dereliction of duty. It suggested that the goddess had withdrawn her protection from the city. Vestals guilty of this offence were punished by a scourging or beating, which was carried out \"in the dark and through a curtain to preserve their modesty\"\n\nThe chastity of the Vestals was considered to have a direct bearing on the health of the Roman state. When they entered the \"collegium\", they left behind the authority of their fathers and became daughters of the state. Any sexual relationship with a citizen was therefore considered to be incestum and an act of treason. The punishment for violating the oath of celibacy was to be buried alive in the \"Campus Sceleratus\" (\"Evil Field\") in an underground chamber near the Colline Gate supplied with a few days of food and water. Ancient tradition required that an unchaste Vestal be buried alive within the city, that being the only way to kill her without spilling her blood, which was forbidden. However, this practice contradicted the Roman law that no person might be buried within the city. To solve this problem, the Romans buried the offending priestess with a nominal quantity of food and other provisions, not to prolong her punishment, but so that the Vestal would not technically be buried in the city, but instead descend into a \"habitable room\". The actual manner of the procession to Campus Scleretatus has been described like this:\nCases of unchastity and its punishment were rare. In 483 BCE, following a series of portents, and advice from the soothsayers that the religious ceremonies were not being duly attended to, the vestal virgin Oppia was found guilty of a breach of chastity and punished. The Vestal Tuccia was accused of fornication, but she carried water in a sieve to prove her chastity.\n\nBecause a Vestal's virginity was thought to be directly correlated to the sacred burning of the fire, if the fire were extinguished it might be assumed that either the Vestal had acted wrongly or that the vestal had simply neglected her duties. The final decision was the responsibility of the Pontifex Maximus, or the head of the pontifical college, as opposed to a judicial body. While the Order of the Vestals was in existence for over one thousand years there are only ten recorded convictions for unchastity and these trials all took place at times of political crisis for the Roman state. It has been suggested that Vestals were used as scapegoats in times of great crisis.\n\nPliny the Younger was convinced that Cornelia, who as Virgo Maxima was buried alive at the orders of emperor Domitian, was innocent of the charges of unchastity, and he describes how she sought to keep her dignity intact when she descended into the chamber:\nDionysius of Halicarnassus claims that the earliest Vestals at Alba Longa were whipped and \"put to death\" for breaking their vows of celibacy, and that their offspring were to be thrown into the river. According to Livy, Rhea Silvia, the mother of Romulus and Remus, had been forced to become a Vestal Virgin, and when she gave birth to the twins, it is stated that she was merely loaded down with chains and cast into prison, her babies put into the river. Dionysius also relates the belief that live burial was instituted by the Roman king Tarquinius Priscus, and inflicted this punishment on the priestess Pinaria. The 11th century Byzantine historian George Kedrenos is the only extant source for the claim that prior to Priscus, the Roman King Numa Pompilius had instituted death by stoning for unchaste Vestal Virgins, and that it was Priscus who changed the punishment into that of live burial. But whipping with rods sometimes preceded the immuration as was done to Urbinia in 471 BCE.\n\nSuspicions first arose against Minucia through an improper love of dress and the evidence of a slave. She was found guilty of unchastity and buried alive. Similarly Postumia, who though innocent according to Livy was tried for unchastity with suspicions being aroused through her immodest attire and less than maidenly manner. Postumia was sternly warned \"to leave her sports, taunts, and merry conceits.\" Aemilia, Licinia, and Martia were executed after being denounced by the servant of a barbarian horseman. A few Vestals were acquitted. Some cleared themselves through ordeals. The paramour of a guilty Vestal was whipped to death in the Forum Boarium or on the Comitium.\n\nThe House of the Vestals was the residence of the vestal priestesses in Rome. Behind the Temple of Vesta (which housed the sacred fire), the \"Atrium Vestiae\" was a three-story building at the foot of the Palatine Hill.\n\nThe chief festivals of Vesta were the Vestalia celebrated June 7 until June 15. On June 7 only, her sanctuary (which normally no one except her priestesses the Vestals entered) was accessible to mothers of families who brought plates of food. The simple ceremonies were officiated by the Vestals and they gathered grain and fashioned salty cakes for the festival. This was the only time when they themselves made the \"mola salsa\", for this was the holiest time for Vesta, and it had to be made perfectly and correctly, as it was used in all public sacrifices.\n\nRomans used clothes to express important aspects of their culture, specifically gender and sexuality. The implications of the attire of the Vestal Virgins emphasize the Roman principle of sexual propriety. Throughout time, the image of the Vestal Virgin has been a woman draped in white priestly garments denoting the essence of purity and divinity through such attire.\n\nThe important elements of the Vestal costume include the \"stola\" and the \"vittae\". It is important to note that these two items are closely related to the traditional attire of Roman brides and the Roman matron, and therefore are not unique to the Vestals. The \"vittae\" that the Vestals wore was a cloth ribbon worn in the Vestals’ hair. It is closely associated with status of Roman matron. \"Vittae\" were worn by a wider range of woman at different stages of life and therefore cannot be accepted as unique to just one stage. Unmarried girls, matrons, as well as the Vestal virgins all wore them.\n\nHowever, the Vestals did not share all elements of the bride’s attire, specifically they did not wear the \"flammeum\" that brides did, but instead wore the \"suffibulum\". The vestals also wore a \"stola\", which is associated with Roman matrons, not with Roman brides. Furthermore, the manner in which the Vestals styled their hair was the way that Roman brides wore their hair on their wedding day. This juxtaposition between the attire and style worn by Vestal Virgins and brides or matrons is particularly intriguing and studied by scholars in numerous instances.\n\nThe gowns worn by the Vestals and Roman brides were also similar in the way that they were tied. The distinction, though is that the Vestals wore the \"stola\", which is associated more with matrons, while brides were associated with the \"tunica recta\". The \"stola\" is a long gown that covers the body, and this covering of the body by way of the gown “signals the prohibitions that governed [the Vestals] sexuality.” \"Stola\" literally communicates the message of “hands off” and further communicates their virginity.\n\nThe connection between Vestals and Roman brides suggest that the Vestals have the connotation of being ambivalent. They are perceived as eternally stuck at the moment between virginal status and marital status.\n\nThe main articles of their clothing consisted of an \"infula\", a \"suffibulum\", and a \"palla\". The infula was a fillet, which was worn by priests and other religious figures in Rome. A vestal's infula was white and made from wool. The suffibulum was the white woolen veil which was worn during rituals and sacrifices. Usually found underneath were red and white woolen ribbons, symbolizing the Vestal's commitment to keeping the fire of Vesta and to her vow of purity, respectively. The palla was the long, simple shawl, a typical article of clothing for Roman women. The palla, and its pin, were draped over the left shoulder.\n\nVestals also had an elaborate hairstyle consisting of six or seven braids, which Roman brides also wore. In 2013 Janet Stephens became the first to recreate the hairstyle of the vestals on a modern person.\n\nFrom the institution of the Vestal priesthood to its abolition, an unknown number of Vestals held office. Several are named in Roman myth and history.\n\n\n\n\nInscriptions record the existence of Vestals in other locations than the centre of Rome.\n\nThe Vestals were used as models of female virtue in allegorizing portraiture of the later West. Elizabeth I of England was portrayed holding a sieve to evoke Tuccia, the Vestal who proved her virtue by carrying water in a sieve. Tuccia herself had been a subject for artists such as Jacopo del Sellaio (d. 1493) and Joannes Stradanus, and women who were arts patrons started having themselves painted as Vestals. In the libertine environment of 18th century France, portraits of women as Vestals seem intended as fantasies of virtue infused with ironic eroticism. Later vestals became an image of republican virtue, as in Jacques-Louis David's \"The Vestal Virgin\". The discovery of a \"House of the Vestals\" in Pompeii made the Vestals a popular subject in the 18th century and the 19th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5380841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5380841", "title": "Wesleyan Holiness Church", "text": "Wesleyan Holiness Church\n\nThe Wesleyan Holiness Church is a Christian denomination which describes itself as evangelical protestant and \"has its roots in John Wesley's Methodism\". It sits within the Holiness movement which emerged from Methodism during the nineteenth century.\n\nIn the UK, the British Isles District has 16 churches. The head office is at New Life Wesleyan Church in Handsworth, Birmingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "2098579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2098579", "title": "White Lotus", "text": "White Lotus\n\nThe White Lotus () was a religious and political movement that appealed to many Han Chinese who found solace in worship of Wusheng Laomu (\"Unborn Venerable Mother\" ()), who was to gather all her children at the millennium into one family.\n\nThe doctrine of the White Lotus included a forecast of the imminent advent of the future Buddha, Maitreya.\n\nThe White Lotus originated as a hybrid movement of Dharmic Chinese religions; such as Benzhuism, Bimoism, Buddhism, Confucism, Dongbaism, Mohism, Taoism, and Wuism; and Gnostic Assyrian religions; such as Manichaeism, Mandaeanism, Sabianism and Zoroastrianism; that emphasised strict vegetarianism and permitted men and women to interact freely, which was socially shocking. Like other secret societies such as the Boxers, they covered up their unusual or illicit activities as \"incense-burning ceremonies\". The first signs of the White Lotus Society came during the late thirteenth century. Mongol rule over China, the Yuan dynasty, prompted small yet popular demonstrations against its rule. The White Lotus Society took part in some of these protests as they grew into widespread dissent.\n\nThe Mongols considered the White Lotus society a heterodox religious sect and banned it, forcing its members to go underground. Now a secret society, the White Lotus became an instrument of quasi-national resistance and religious organization. This fear of secret societies carried on in the law; the Great Qing Legal Code, which was in effect until 1912, contained the following section:\nThe White Lotus was a fertile ground for fomenting rebellion.\n\nA Buddhist monk from Jiangxi named Peng Yingyu began to study the White Lotus and ended up organising a rebellion in the 1330s. Although the rebellion was put down, Peng survived and hid in Anhui, then reappeared back in South China where he led another unsuccessful rebellion in which he was killed. This second rebellion changed its colors from white to red and its soldiers were known as the \"Red Turbans\" for their red bandanas.\n\nAnother revolution inspired by the White Lotus society, took shape in 1352 around Guangzhou. A Buddhist monk and former boy-beggar, Zhu Yuanzhang, joined the rebellion. His exceptional intelligence took him to the head of a rebel army; he won people to his side by forbidding his soldiers to pillage in observance of White Lotus religious beliefs. By 1355 the rebellion had spread through much of China.\n\nIn 1356, Zhu Yuanzhang captured the important city of Nanjing (then called \"Jiqing\") and made it his capital, renaming it \"Yingtian\" . It was here that he began to discard his heterodox beliefs and so won the help of Confucian scholars who issued pronouncements for him and performed rituals in his claim of the Mandate of Heaven, the first step toward establishing new dynastic rule.\n\nMeanwhile, the Mongols were fighting among themselves, inhibiting their ability to suppress the rebellion. In 1368, Zhu Yuanzhang extended his rule to Guangzhou, the same year that the Mongol ruler, Toghon Temür, fled to Karakorum. In 1368, Zhu Yuanzhang and his army entered the former capital of Beijing and in 1371 his army moved through Sichuan to the southwest.\n\nBy 1387, after more than thirty years of war, Zhu Yuanzhang had liberated all of China. He took the title Hongwu Emperor and founded the Ming dynasty, whose name echoes the religious sentiment of the White Lotus.\n\nThe White Lotus reemerged in the late 18th century in the form of an inspired Chinese movement in many different forms and sects.\n\nOne such large-scale rebellion was led by the female warriors, Wang Cong'er and Wang Nangxian.\n\nIn 1774, the herbalist and martial artist Wang Lun founded a derivative sect of the White Lotus that promoted underground meditation teachings in Shandong province, not far from Beijing near the city of Linqing. The sect led an uprising that captured three small cities and laid siege to the larger city of Linqing, a strategic location on the north-south Grand Canal transportation route. After initial success, he was outnumbered and defeated by Qing troops, including local armies of Chinese soldiers known as the Green Standard Army.\n\nAn account of Wang Lun's death was given to Qing authorities by a captured rebel. Wang Lun remained sitting in his headquarters wearing a purple robe and two silver bracelets while he burned to death with his dagger and double-bladed sword beside him.\n\nWang Lun likely failed because he did not make any attempts to raise wide public support. He did not distribute captured wealth or food supplies, nor did he promise to lessen the tax burden. Unable to build up a support base, he was forced to quickly flee all three cities that he attacked in order to evade government troops. Though he passed through an area inhabited by almost a million peasants, his army never measured more than four thousand soldiers, many of whom had been forced into service.\n\nBeginning in 1794, two decades after Wang Lun's failed uprising, a movement also arose in the mountainous region that separates Sichuan from Hubei and Shaanxi in central China as tax protests. Here, the White Lotus led impoverished settlers into rebellion, promising personal salvation in return for their loyalty. Beginning as tax protests, the eventual rebellion gained growing support and sympathy from many ordinary people. The rebellion grew in number and power and eventually, into a serious concern for the government.\n\nA systematic program of pacification followed in which the populace was resettled in hundreds of stockaded villages and organized into militia. In its last stage, the Qing suppression policy combined pursuit and extermination of rebel guerrilla bands with a program of amnesty for deserters. The rebellion came to an end in 1804. A decree from the Daoguang Emperor admitted, \"it was extortion by local officials that goaded the people into rebellion...\" Using the arrest of sectarian members as a threat, local officials and police extorted money from people. Actual participation in sect activities had no impact on an arrest; whether or not monetary demands were met, however, did.\n\nIn the first decade of the nineteenth century, there were also several White Lotus sects active in the area around the capital city of Peking. Lin Qing, another member of the Eight Trigrams sect within the White Lotus, united several of these sects and with them build an organization that he would later lead in the Eight Trigrams Uprising of 1813.\n\nAdministrators also seized and destroyed sectarian scriptures used by the religious groups. One such official was Huang Yupian (), who refuted the ideas found in the scriptures with orthodox Confucian and Buddhist views in \"A Detailed Refutation of Heresy\" ( \"Pōxié Xiángbiàn\"), which was written in 1838. This book has since become an invaluable source in understanding the beliefs of these groups.\n\nWhite Lotus adherents who collaborated with the Japanese during the Second Sino-Japanese War were fought against by the Muslim General Ma Biao.\n\nWhile traditional historiography has linked many Maitreyist and millenarian uprisings during the Ming and Qing dynasties as all related to the White Lotus, there are reasons to doubt that such connections existed. B J Ter Haar has argued that the term \"White Lotus\" became a label applied by late Ming and Qing imperial bureaucrats to any number of different popular uprisings, millenarian societies or \"magical\" practices such as mantra recitation and divination. If this interpretation is correct, the steady rise in the number of White Lotus rebellions in imperial histories during the Ming and Qing does not necessarily reflect the increasing strength of a unified organization. Instead, this trend reflects a growing concern by imperial bureaucrats with any form of Buddhism practiced outside of the sanctioned frameworks of the monasteries.\n\nThe White Lotus sect may have been one of the main ancestors of the Chinese organizations known as the Triads. The Triads were originally members and soldiers of the Tiandihui or \"Heaven and Earth Society\" during the period of the war between the Ming and Qing dynasties. The Triads' formation was not for criminal purposes, but to overthrow the Qing and restore the Ming to power. The White Lotus Society may have been one of five branches of the Heaven Earth Society which formed at the Shaolin Monastery from Ming loyalists. The Five branches, known by some as the \"Five Ancestors\", were the Black, Red, White, Yellow and Green Lodges. After there was no longer any need for the triads on the battlefield, some high-level military leaders resorted to criminal activity in order to find means of survival.\n\n\n"}
