{"id": "5927065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5927065", "title": "A647 road", "text": "A647 road\n\nThe A647 is an A road in West Yorkshire, England that begins in Leeds and ends in Halifax. The road is long.\n\nThe road begins at the Armley Gyratory and goes via Armley, by-passes Stanningley and Pudsey, then onwards via Thornbury to the edge of Bradford city centre.\n\nThe road then becomes part of the Bradford's Inner Ring Road (\"Croft Street\") heading through Great Horton and up to Queensbury ( above sea level) before heading down hill via Boothtown to Halifax town centre.\n\nIn June 2016 the CS1 Cycle Superhighway opened from Bradford to Leeds, for the most part following the corridor of the A647. However unlike similarly-named schemes in the Netherlands and London, this route relies on allocated lane space within the vehicle carriageway which has led to criticism over its effectiveness from cycling and transport consultants.\n\nThe road is a stretch of dual carriageway on the western edge of Leeds. It was built in the 1970s to ease traffic congestion along Stanningley Road, forming part of the Leeds Outer Ring Road. Prior to this the A647 passed through the centre of Stanningley along the line of the present B6157.\n\nIt is notable for the fact that it had Britain's first High Occupancy Vehicle Lane (HOV lane). \n"}
{"id": "448462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448462", "title": "Aeaea", "text": "Aeaea\n\nAeaea or Eëa ( or ; , \"Aiaíā\" ) was a mythological island said to be the home of the goddess-sorceress Circe. In Homer's \"Odyssey\", Odysseus tells Alcinous that he stayed here for one year on his way home to Ithaca. He says that he could not resist the need to be on this island, not so much for Circe but so that he does not resist the pull. The modern Greek scholar Ioannis Kakridis insists that any attempt at realistic identification is vain, arguing that Homer vaguely located Aeaea somewhere in the eastern part of his world, perhaps near Colchis, since Circe was the sister of Aeëtes, king of Colchis, and because their paternal aunt the goddess Eos had her palace there.\n\nThe somewhat inconsistent geography of Homer's \"Odyssey\" is often considered more mythic than literal, but the geography of the Alexandrian scholar and poet Apollonius of Rhodes is more specific. In his epic \"Argonautica\", he locates the island somewhere south of \"Aethalia\" (Elba), within view of the \"Tyrrhenian\" shore (western coast of Italy). In the same poem, Aeëtes remarks on the great distance between Colchis and Aeaea in these terms:\nAeaea was later identified by classical Roman writers with Mount Circeo on Cape Circeo (Cape Circaeum) on the western coast of Italy—about 100 kilometers south of Rome—which may have looked like an island due to the marshes and sea surrounding its base but which is a small peninsula. It was already a peninsula according to Dionysius of Halicarnassus. However, it may have been still an island in the days of Homer, with a long \"lido\" or sandy peninsula that gradually became attached to the mainland, in a common geological process. Archeologists have identified one cave or grotto on the cape as \"Grotta della Maga Circe\", the cave of Circe. A second was found on the nearby Island of Ponza. It is believed that Circe had her summer home on Mount Circe and her winter home on Ponza, which may possibly be the island of Aeaea.\n\nBefore leaving Aeaea, Odysseus was given instructions by Circe about how to cross the ocean and assisted by North Wind to reach the underworld:\n\nRobert Graves (\"The Greek Myths\") identifies, as Aeaea, the island of Lošinj, near the Istrian peninsula in the north Adriatic Sea.\n\nTim Severin (\"The Ulysses Voyage\") identifies, as Aeaea, the island of Paxos in the Ionian Sea near the Greek coast. The island is on the furthest west on a boundary between the sea and the river of Okeanos, which is said to encircle the earth.\n\nGaedl Lomen (\"The Sea in the Greek Imagination\") identifies, as Aeaea the island of Cyprus, in the Eastern Mediterranean.\n\nIn Richard Aldington's novel \"All Men are Enemies\" (1933), Aeaea is the island, \"twelve hours from Naples\" (obviously mythical), where his heroes meet, and love between them flourishes.\n\nJohn Banville's 1993 novel \"Ghosts\" has a boating party shipwrecked on an unnamed island; one character, Sophie, speculates that it is Aeaea; another says, \"Yes...yes, Aeaea: you will feel at home, no doubt\", a reference to Sophie's Circean nature.\n\n\"Aeaean\" was an epithet of Circe and her niece Medea (), who were the sister and daughter of Aeëtes, the ruler of Aea () in Colchis Circe's son Telegonus is likewise given this epithet. It was also a name of Calypso, who was believed to have inhabited a small island of the name of Aeaea in the straits between Italy and Sicily.\n"}
{"id": "38670560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38670560", "title": "Akilineq", "text": "Akilineq\n\nAkilineq is an Inuit language toponym meaning \"the opposite country\", which has variously been theorized to be a mythical place, an area in northeastern North America, or possibly even Europe.\n\nOne theory notes that the term was used in West Greenland to refer to the territories across Davis Strait, such as the Labrador Peninsula and Baffin Island.\n\nRenee Fosset notes that Gustav Holm of the 1880s Danish polar expedition recorded east Greenlanders as describing Akilineq as a land far to the east, which by evidence Holm took to refer to Iceland.\n\nThe term was also used to refer to one or several trading sites where the Inuit and neighbouring peoples would meet, by the Akilineq Hills at the mouth of the Thelon River, or on the north shores of Lake Aberdeen.\n"}
{"id": "1654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1654", "title": "Alypius of Antioch", "text": "Alypius of Antioch\n\nAlypius of Antioch was a geographer and a vicarius of Roman Britain, probably in the late 350s AD. He replaced Flavius Martinus after that vicarius' suicide. His rule is recorded is Ammianus XXIII 1, 3.\n\nHe came from Antioch and served under Constantius II and was probably appointed to ensure that nobody with western associations was serving in Britain during a time of mistrust, rebellion and suppression symbolised by the brutal acts of the imperial notary Paulus Catena. He may have had to deal with the insurrection of the usurper named Carausius II.\n\nAlypius was afterwards commissioned to rebuild the Temple in Jerusalem as part of Julian's systematic attempt to reverse the Christianization of the Roman Empire by restoring pagan and, in this case, Jewish practices. Among the letters of Julian are two (29 and 30) addressed to Alypius; one inviting him to Rome, the other thanking him for a geographical treatise, which no longer exists.\n\n"}
{"id": "689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=689", "title": "Asia", "text": "Asia\n\nAsia () is Earth's largest and most populous continent, located primarily in the Eastern and Northern Hemispheres. It shares the continental landmass of Eurasia with the continent of Europe and the continental landmass of Afro-Eurasia with both Europe and Africa. Asia covers an area of , about 30% of Earth's total land area and 8.7% of the Earth's total surface area. The continent, which has long been home to the majority of the human population, was the site of many of the first civilizations. Asia is notable for not only its overall large size and population, but also dense and large settlements, as well as vast barely populated regions. Its 4.5 billion people () constitute roughly 60% of the world's population.\n\nIn general terms, Asia is bounded on the east by the Pacific Ocean, on the south by the Indian Ocean, and on the north by the Arctic Ocean. The border of Asia with Europe is a historical and cultural construct, as there is no clear physical and geographical separation between them. It is somewhat arbitrary and has moved since its first conception in classical antiquity. The division of Eurasia into two continents reflects East-West cultural, linguistic, and ethnic differences, some of which vary on a spectrum rather than with a sharp dividing line. The most commonly accepted boundaries place Asia to the east of the Suez Canal separating it from Africa; and to the east of the Turkish Straits, the Ural Mountains and Ural River, and to the south of the Caucasus Mountains and the Caspian and Black Seas, separating it from Europe.\n\nChina and India alternated in being the largest economies in the world from 1 to 1800 CE. China was a major economic power and attracted many to the east, and for many the legendary wealth and prosperity of the ancient culture of India personified Asia, attracting European commerce, exploration and colonialism. The accidental discovery of a trans-Atlantic route from Europe to America by Columbus while in search for a route to India demonstrates this deep fascination. The Silk Road became the main East-West trading route in the Asian hinterlands while the Straits of Malacca stood as a major sea route. Asia has exhibited economic dynamism (particularly East Asia) as well as robust population growth during the 20th century, but overall population growth has since fallen. Asia was the birthplace of most of the world's mainstream religions including Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, Jainism, Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, as well as many other religions.\n\nGiven its size and diversity, the concept of Asia—a name dating back to classical antiquity—may actually have more to do with human geography than physical geography. Asia varies greatly across and within its regions with regard to ethnic groups, cultures, environments, economics, historical ties and government systems. It also has a mix of many different climates ranging from the equatorial south via the hot desert in the Middle East, temperate areas in the east and the continental centre to vast subarctic and polar areas in Siberia.\n\nThe boundary between Asia and Africa is the Red Sea, the Gulf of Suez, and the Suez Canal. This makes Egypt a transcontinental country, with the Sinai peninsula in Asia and the remainder of the country in Africa.\n\nThe border between Asia and Europe was historically defined by European academics. The Don River became unsatisfactory to northern Europeans when Peter the Great, king of the Tsardom of Russia, defeating rival claims of Sweden and the Ottoman Empire to the eastern lands, and armed resistance by the tribes of Siberia, synthesized a new Russian Empire extending to the Ural Mountains and beyond, founded in 1721. The major geographical theorist of the empire was actually a former Swedish prisoner-of-war, taken at the Battle of Poltava in 1709 and assigned to Tobolsk, where he associated with Peter's Siberian official, Vasily Tatishchev, and was allowed freedom to conduct geographical and anthropological studies in preparation for a future book.\n\nIn Sweden, five years after Peter's death, in 1730 Philip Johan von Strahlenberg published a new atlas proposing the Urals as the border of Asia. The Russians were enthusiastic about the concept, which allowed them to keep their European identity in geography. Tatishchev announced that he had proposed the idea to von Strahlenberg. The latter had suggested the Emba River as the lower boundary. Over the next century various proposals were made until the Ural River prevailed in the mid-19th century. The border had been moved perforce from the Black Sea to the Caspian Sea into which the Ural River projects. The border between the Black Sea and the Caspian is usually placed along the crest of the Caucasus Mountains, although it is sometimes placed further north.\n\nThe border between Asia and the region of Oceania is usually placed somewhere in the Malay Archipelago. The Maluku Islands in Indonesia are often considered to lie on the border of southeast Asia, with New Guinea, to the east of the islands, being wholly part of Oceania. The terms Southeast Asia and Oceania, devised in the 19th century, have had several vastly different geographic meanings since their inception. The chief factor in determining which islands of the Malay Archipelago are Asian has been the location of the colonial possessions of the various empires there (not all European). Lewis and Wigen assert, \"The narrowing of 'Southeast Asia' to its present boundaries was thus a gradual process.\"\n\nGeographical Asia is a cultural artifact of European conceptions of the world, beginning with the Ancient Greeks, being imposed onto other cultures, an imprecise concept causing endemic contention about what it means. Asia is larger and more culturally diverse than Europe. It does not exactly correspond to the cultural borders of its various types of constituents.\n\nFrom the time of Herodotus a minority of geographers have rejected the three-continent system (Europe, Africa, Asia) on the grounds that there is no substantial physical separation between them. For example, Sir Barry Cunliffe, the emeritus professor of European archeology at Oxford, argues that Europe has been geographically and culturally merely \"the western excrescence of the continent of Asia\".\n\nGeographically, Asia is the major eastern constituent of the continent of Eurasia with Europe being a northwestern peninsula of the landmass. Asia, Europe and Africa make up a single continuous landmass – Afro-Eurasia (except for the Suez Canal) – and share a common continental shelf. Almost all of Europe and the better part of Asia sit atop the Eurasian Plate, adjoined on the south by the Arabian and Indian Plate and with the easternmost part of Siberia (east of the Chersky Range) on the North American Plate.\n\nThe idea of a place called \"Asia\" was originally a concept of Greek civilization, though this might not correspond to the entire continent currently known by that name. The English word comes from Latin literature, where it has the same form, \"Asia\". Whether \"Asia\" in other languages comes from Latin of the Roman Empire is much less certain, and the ultimate source of the Latin word is uncertain, though several theories have been published. One of the first classical writers to use Asia as a name of the whole continent was Pliny. This metonymical change in meaning is common and can be observed in some other geographical names, such as Skandinavia (from Scania).\n\nBefore Greek poetry, the Aegean Sea area was in a Greek Dark Age, at the beginning of which syllabic writing was lost and alphabetic writing had not begun. Prior to then in the Bronze Age the records of the Assyrian Empire, the Hittite Empire and the various Mycenaean states of Greece mention a region undoubtedly Asia, certainly in Anatolia, including if not identical to Lydia. These records are administrative and do not include poetry.\n\nThe Mycenaean states were destroyed about 1200 BCE by unknown agents although one school of thought assigns the Dorian invasion to this time. The burning of the palaces baked clay diurnal administrative records written in a Greek syllabic script called Linear B, deciphered by a number of interested parties, most notably by a young World War II cryptographer, Michael Ventris, subsequently assisted by the scholar, John Chadwick. A major cache discovered by Carl Blegen at the site of ancient Pylos included hundreds of male and female names formed by different methods.\n\nSome of these are of women held in servitude (as study of the society implied by the content reveals). They were used in trades, such as cloth-making, and usually came with children. The epithet \"lawiaiai\", \"captives\", associated with some of them identifies their origin. Some are ethnic names. One in particular, aswiai, identifies \"women of Asia\". Perhaps they were captured in Asia, but some others, Milatiai, appear to have been of Miletus, a Greek colony, which would not have been raided for slaves by Greeks. Chadwick suggests that the names record the locations where these foreign women were purchased. The name is also in the singular, Aswia, which refers both to the name of a country and to a female of it. There is a masculine form, aswios. This Aswia appears to have been a remnant of a region known to the Hittites as Assuwa, centered on Lydia, or \"Roman Asia\". This name, \"Assuwa\", has been suggested as the origin for the name of the continent \"Asia\". The Assuwa league was a confederation of states in western Anatolia, defeated by the Hittites under Tudhaliya I around 1400 BCE.\n\nAlternatively, the etymology of the term may be from the Akkadian word \"(w)aṣû(m)\", which means 'to go outside' or 'to ascend', referring to the direction of the sun at sunrise in the Middle East and also likely connected with the Phoenician word \"asa\" meaning east. This may be contrasted to a similar etymology proposed for \"Europe\", as being from Akkadian \"erēbu(m)\" 'to enter' or 'set' (of the sun).\n\nT.R. Reid supports this alternative etymology, noting that the ancient Greek name must have derived from \"asu\", meaning 'east' in Assyrian (\"ereb\" for \"Europe\" meaning 'west'). The ideas of \"Occidental\" (form Latin \"Occidens\" 'setting') and \"Oriental\" (from Latin \"Oriens\" for 'rising') are also European invention, synonymous with \"Western\" and \"Eastern\". Reid further emphasizes that it explains the Western point of view of placing all the peoples and cultures of Asia into a single classification, almost as if there were a need for setting the distinction between Western and Eastern civilizations on the Eurasian continent. Ogura Kazuo and Tenshin Okakura are two outspoken Japanese figures on the subject.\n\nLatin Asia and Greek Ἀσία appear to be the same word. Roman authors translated Ἀσία as Asia. The Romans named a province Asia, located in western Anatolia (in modern-day Turkey). There was an Asia Minor and an Asia Major located in modern-day Iraq. As the earliest evidence of the name is Greek, it is likely circumstantially that Asia came from Ἀσία, but ancient transitions, due to the lack of literary contexts, are difficult to catch in the act. The most likely vehicles were the ancient geographers and historians, such as Herodotus, who were all Greek. Ancient Greek certainly evidences early and rich uses of the name.\n\nThe first continental use of Asia is attributed to Herodotus (about 440 BCE), not because he innovated it, but because his \"Histories\" are the earliest surviving prose to describe it in any detail. He defines it carefully, mentioning the previous geographers whom he had read, but whose works are now missing. By it he means Anatolia and the Persian Empire, in contrast to Greece and Egypt.\n\nHerodotus comments that he is puzzled as to why three women's names were \"given to a tract which is in reality one\" (Europa, Asia, and Libya, referring to Africa), stating that most Greeks assumed that Asia was named after the wife of Prometheus (i.e. Hesione), but that the Lydians say it was named after Asies, son of Cotys, who passed the name on to a tribe at Sardis. In Greek mythology, \"Asia\" (\"Ἀσία\") or \"Asie\" (\"Ἀσίη\") was the name of a \"Nymph or Titan goddess of Lydia\".\n\nIn ancient Greek religion, places were under the care of female divinities, parallel to guardian angels. The poets detailed their doings and generations in allegoric language salted with entertaining stories, which subsequently playwrights transformed into classical Greek drama and became \"Greek mythology\". For example, Hesiod mentions the daughters of Tethys and Ocean, among whom are a \"holy company\", \"who with the Lord Apollo and the Rivers have youths in their keeping\". Many of these are geographic: Doris, Rhodea, Europa, Asia. Hesiod explains:\n\nFor there are three-thousand neat-ankled daughters of Ocean who are dispersed far and wide, and in every place alike serve the earth and the deep waters.\n\nThe Iliad (attributed by the ancient Greeks to Homer) mentions two Phrygians (the tribe that replaced the Luvians in Lydia) in the Trojan War named Asios (an adjective meaning \"Asian\"); and also a marsh or lowland containing a marsh in Lydia as .\n\nThe history of Asia can be seen as the distinct histories of several peripheral coastal regions: East Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia and the Middle East, linked by the interior mass of the Central Asian steppes.\n\nThe coastal periphery was home to some of the world's earliest known civilizations, each of them developing around fertile river valleys. The civilizations in Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley and the Yellow River shared many similarities. These civilizations may well have exchanged technologies and ideas such as mathematics and the wheel. Other innovations, such as writing, seem to have been developed individually in each area. Cities, states and empires developed in these lowlands.\n\nThe central steppe region had long been inhabited by horse-mounted nomads who could reach all areas of Asia from the steppes. The earliest postulated expansion out of the steppe is that of the Indo-Europeans, who spread their languages into the Middle East, South Asia, and the borders of China, where the Tocharians resided. The northernmost part of Asia, including much of Siberia, was largely inaccessible to the steppe nomads, owing to the dense forests, climate and tundra. These areas remained very sparsely populated.\n\nThe center and the peripheries were mostly kept separated by mountains and deserts. The Caucasus and Himalaya mountains and the Karakum and Gobi deserts formed barriers that the steppe horsemen could cross only with difficulty. While the urban city dwellers were more advanced technologically and socially, in many cases they could do little in a military aspect to defend against the mounted hordes of the steppe. However, the lowlands did not have enough open grasslands to support a large horsebound force; for this and other reasons, the nomads who conquered states in China, India, and the Middle East often found themselves adapting to the local, more affluent societies.\n\nThe Islamic Caliphate's defeats of the Byzantine and Persian empires led to West Asia and southern parts of Central Asia and western parts of South Asia under its control during its conquests of the 7th century. The Mongol Empire conquered a large part of Asia in the 13th century, an area extending from China to Europe. Before the Mongol invasion, Song dynasty reportedly had approximately 120 million citizens; the 1300 census which followed the invasion reported roughly 60 million people.\n\nThe Black Death, one of the most devastating pandemics in human history, is thought to have originated in the arid plains of central Asia, where it then travelled along the Silk Road.\n\nThe Russian Empire began to expand into Asia from the 17th century, and would eventually take control of all of Siberia and most of Central Asia by the end of the 19th century. The Ottoman Empire controlled Anatolia, most of the Middle East, North Africa and the Balkans from the mid 16th century onwards. In the 17th century, the Manchu conquered China and established the Qing dynasty. The Islamic Mughal Empire and the Hindu Maratha Empire controlled much of India in the 16th and 18th centuries respectively.\n\nAsia is the largest continent on Earth. It covers 9% of the Earth's total surface area (or 30% of its land area), and has the largest coastline, at . Asia is generally defined as comprising the eastern four-fifths of Eurasia. It is located to the east of the Suez Canal and the Ural Mountains, and south of the Caucasus Mountains (or the Kuma–Manych Depression) and the Caspian and Black Seas. It is bounded on the east by the Pacific Ocean, on the south by the Indian Ocean and on the north by the Arctic Ocean. Asia is subdivided into 48 countries, three of them (Russia, Kazakhstan and Turkey) having part of their land in Europe.\n\nAsia has extremely diverse climates and geographic features. Climates range from arctic and subarctic in Siberia to tropical in southern India and Southeast Asia. It is moist across southeast sections, and dry across much of the interior. Some of the largest daily temperature ranges on Earth occur in western sections of Asia. The monsoon circulation dominates across southern and eastern sections, due to the presence of the Himalayas forcing the formation of a thermal low which draws in moisture during the summer. Southwestern sections of the continent are hot. Siberia is one of the coldest places in the Northern Hemisphere, and can act as a source of arctic air masses for North America. The most active place on Earth for tropical cyclone activity lies northeast of the Philippines and south of Japan. The Gobi Desert is in Mongolia and the Arabian Desert stretches across much of the Middle East. The Yangtze River in China is the longest river in the continent. The Himalayas between Nepal and China is the tallest mountain range in the world. Tropical rainforests stretch across much of southern Asia and coniferous and deciduous forests lie farther north.\n\n\nA survey carried out in 2010 by global risk analysis farm Maplecroft identified 16 countries that are extremely vulnerable to climate change. Each nation's vulnerability was calculated using 42 socio, economic and environmental indicators, which identified the likely climate change impacts during the next 30 years. The Asian countries of Bangladesh, India, Vietnam, Thailand, Pakistan and Sri Lanka were among the 16 countries facing extreme risk from climate change. Some shifts are already occurring. For example, in tropical parts of India with a semi-arid climate, the temperature increased by 0.4 °C between 1901 and 2003.\nA 2013 study by the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) aimed to find science-based, pro-poor approaches and techniques that would enable Asia's agricultural systems to cope with climate change, while benefitting poor and vulnerable farmers. The study's recommendations ranged from improving the use of climate information in local planning and strengthening weather-based agro-advisory services, to stimulating diversification of rural household incomes and providing incentives to farmers to adopt natural resource conservation measures to enhance forest cover, replenish groundwater and use renewable energy.\n\nAsia has the largest continental economy by both GDP Nominal and PPP in the world, and is the fastest growing economic region. , the largest economies in Asia are China, Japan, India, Russia, South Korea, Indonesia and Turkey based on GDP in both nominal and PPP. Based on Global Office Locations 2011, Asia dominated the office locations with 4 of the top 5 being in Asia: Hong Kong, Singapore, Tokyo, Seoul and Shanghai. Around 68 percent of international firms have office in Hong Kong.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, the economies of China and India have been growing rapidly, both with an average annual growth rate of more than 8%. Other recent very-high-growth nations in Asia include Israel, Malaysia, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Thailand, Vietnam, Mongolia, Uzbekistan, Cyprus and the Philippines, and mineral-rich nations such as Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Iran, Brunei, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Oman.\n\nAccording to economic historian Angus Maddison in his book \"The World Economy: A Millennial Perspective\", India had the world's largest economy during 0 BCE and 1000 BCE. China was the largest and most advanced economy on earth for much of recorded history, until the British Empire (excluding India) overtook it in the mid-19th century. For several decades in the late twentieth century Japan was the largest economy in Asia and second-largest of any single nation in the world, after surpassing the Soviet Union (measured in net material product) in 1986 and Germany in 1968. (NB: A number of supernational economies are larger, such as the European Union (EU), the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) or APEC). This ended in 2010 when China overtook Japan to become the world's second largest economy.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, Japan's GDP was almost as large (current exchange rate method) as that of the rest of Asia combined. In 1995, Japan's economy nearly equaled that of the US as the largest economy in the world for a day, after the Japanese currency reached a record high of 79 yen/US$. Economic growth in Asia since World War II to the 1990s had been concentrated in Japan as well as the four regions of South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore located in the Pacific Rim, known as the Asian tigers, which have now all received developed country status, having the highest GDP per capita in Asia.\nIt is forecasted that India will overtake Japan in terms of nominal GDP by 2020. By 2027, according to Goldman Sachs, China will have the largest economy in the world. Several trade blocs exist, with the most developed being the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.\n\nAsia is the largest continent in the world by a considerable margin, and it is rich in natural resources, such as petroleum, forests, fish, water, rice, copper and silver. Manufacturing in Asia has traditionally been strongest in East and Southeast Asia, particularly in China, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, India, the Philippines, and Singapore. Japan and South Korea continue to dominate in the area of multinational corporations, but increasingly the PRC and India are making significant inroads. Many companies from Europe, North America, South Korea and Japan have operations in Asia's developing countries to take advantage of its abundant supply of cheap labour and relatively developed infrastructure.\n\nAccording to Citigroup 9 of 11 Global Growth Generators countries came from Asia driven by population and income growth. They are Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Mongolia, Philippines, Sri Lanka and Vietnam. Asia has four main financial centers: Tokyo, Hong Kong, Singapore and Shanghai. Call centers and business process outsourcing (BPOs) are becoming major employers in India and the Philippines due to the availability of a large pool of highly skilled, English-speaking workers. The increased use of outsourcing has assisted the rise of India and the China as financial centers. Due to its large and extremely competitive information technology industry, India has become a major hub for outsourcing.\n\nIn 2010, Asia had 3.3 million millionaires (people with net worth over US$1 million excluding their homes), slightly below North America with 3.4 million millionaires. Last year Asia had toppled Europe.\nCitigroup in The Wealth Report 2012 stated that Asian centa-millionaire overtook North America's wealth for the first time as the world's \"economic center of gravity\" continued moving east. At the end of 2011, there were 18,000 Asian people mainly in Southeast Asia, China and Japan who have at least $100 million in disposable assets, while North America with 17,000 people and Western Europe with 14,000 people.\n\nWith growing Regional Tourism with domination of Chinese visitors, MasterCard has released Global Destination Cities Index 2013 with 10 of 20 are dominated by Asia and Pacific Region Cities and also for the first time a city of a country from Asia (Bangkok) set in the top-ranked with 15.98 international visitors.\n\nEast Asia had by far the strongest overall Human Development Index (HDI) improvement of any region in the world, nearly doubling average HDI attainment over the past 40 years, according to the report's analysis of health, education and income data. China, the second highest achiever in the world in terms of HDI improvement since\n1970, is the only country on the \"Top 10 Movers\" list due to income rather than health or education achievements. Its per capita income increased a stunning 21-fold over the last four decades, also lifting hundreds of millions out of income poverty. Yet it was not among the region's top performers in improving school enrollment and life expectancy.\n<br>Nepal, a South Asian country, emerges as one of the world's fastest movers since 1970 mainly due to health and education achievements. Its present life expectancy is 25 years longer than in the 1970s. More than four of every five children of school age in Nepal now attend primary school, compared to just one in five 40 years ago.\n<br> Japan and South Korea ranked highest among the countries grouped on the HDI (number 11 and 12 in the world, which are in the \"very high human development\" category), followed by Hong Kong (21) and Singapore (27). Afghanistan (155) ranked lowest amongst Asian countries out of the 169 countries assessed.\n\nAsia is home to several language families and many language isolates. Most Asian countries have more than one language that is natively spoken. For instance, according to Ethnologue, more than 600 languages are spoken in Indonesia, more than 800 languages spoken in India, and more than 100 are spoken in the Philippines. China has many languages and dialects in different provinces.\n\nMany of the world's major religions have their origins in Asia, including the five most practiced in the world (excluding irreligion), which are Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Chinese folk religion (classified as Confucianism and Taoism), and Buddhism respectively. Asian mythology is complex and diverse. The story of the Great Flood for example, as presented to Jews in the Hebrew Bible in the narrative of Noah—and later to Christians in the Old Testament, and to Muslims in the Quran—is earliest found in Mesopotamian mythology, in the Enûma Eliš and \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". Hindu mythology similarly tells about an avatar of Vishnu in the form of a fish who warned Manu of a terrible flood. Ancient Chinese mythology also tells of a Great Flood spanning generations, one that required the combined efforts of emperors and divinities to control.\n\nThe Abrahamic religions including Judaism, Christianity, Islam and Bahá'í Faith originated in West Asia.\n\nJudaism, the oldest of the Abrahamic faiths, is practiced primarily in Israel, the indigenous homeland and historical birthplace of the Hebrew nation: which today consists both of those Israelites who remained in Asia/North Africa and those who returned from diaspora in Europe, North America, and other regions; though various diaspora communities persist worldwide. Jews are the predominant ethnic group in Israel (75.6%) numbering at about 6.1 million, although the levels of adherence to Jewish religion vary. Outside of Israel there are small ancient Jewish communities in Turkey (17,400), Azerbaijan (9,100), Iran (8,756), India (5,000) and Uzbekistan (4,000), among many other places. In total, there are 14.4–17.5 million (2016, est.) Jews alive in the world today, making them one of the smallest Asian minorities, at roughly 0.3 to 0.4 percent of the total population of the continent.\n\nChristianity is a widespread religion in Asia with more than 286 million adherents according to Pew Research Center in 2010, and nearly 364 million according to Britannica Book of the Year 2014. Constituting around 12.6% of the total population of Asia. In the Philippines and East Timor, Roman Catholicism is the predominant religion; it was introduced by the Spaniards and the Portuguese, respectively. In Armenia, Cyprus, Georgia and Asian Russia, Eastern Orthodoxy is the predominant religion. In the Middle East, such as in the Levant, Syriac Christianity (Church of the East) and Oriental Orthodoxy are prevalent minority denominations, which are both Eastern Christian sects mainly adhered to Assyrian people or Syriac Christians. Saint Thomas Christians in India trace their origins to the evangelistic activity of Thomas the Apostle in the 1st century.\n\nIslam, which originated in the Hejaz located in modern-day Saudi Arabia, is the second largest and most widely-spread religion in Asia with at least 1 billion Muslims constituting around 23.8% of the total population of Asia. With 12.7% of the world Muslim population, the country currently with the largest Muslim population in the world is Indonesia, followed by Pakistan (11.5%), India (10%), Bangladesh, Iran and Turkey. Mecca, Medina and Jerusalem are the three holiest cities for Islam in all the world. The Hajj and Umrah attract large numbers of Muslim devotees from all over the world to Mecca and Medina. Iran is the largest Shi'a country.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith originated in Asia, in Iran (Persia), and spread from there to the Ottoman Empire, Central Asia, India, and Burma during the lifetime of Bahá'u'lláh. Since the middle of the 20th century, growth has particularly occurred in other Asian countries, because Bahá'í activities in many Muslim countries has been severely suppressed by authorities. Lotus Temple is a big Baha'i Temple in India.\n\nAlmost all Asian religions have philosophical character and Asian philosophical traditions cover a large spectrum of philosophical thoughts and writings. Indian philosophy includes Hindu philosophy and Buddhist philosophy. They include elements of nonmaterial pursuits, whereas another school of thought from India, Cārvāka, preached the enjoyment of the material world. The religions of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism originated in India, South Asia. In East Asia, particularly in China and Japan, Confucianism, Taoism and Zen Buddhism took shape.\n\n, Hinduism has around 1.1 billion adherents. The faith represents around 25% of Asia's population and is the largest religion in Asia. However, it is mostly concentrated in South Asia. Over 80% of the populations of both India and Nepal adhere to Hinduism, alongside significant communities in Bangladesh, Pakistan, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Bali, Indonesia. Many overseas Indians in countries such as Burma, Singapore and Malaysia also adhere to Hinduism.\n\nBuddhism has a great following in mainland Southeast Asia and East Asia. Buddhism is the religion of the majority of the populations of Cambodia (96%), Thailand (95%), Burma (80–89%), Japan (36–96%), Bhutan (75–84%), Sri Lanka (70%), Laos (60–67%) and Mongolia (53–93%). Large Buddhist populations also exist in Singapore (33–51%), Taiwan (35–93%), South Korea (23–50%), Malaysia (19–21%), Nepal (9–11%), Vietnam (10–75%), China (20–50%), North Korea (2–14%), and small communities in India and Bangladesh. In many Chinese communities, Mahayana Buddhism is easily syncretized with Taoism, thus exact religious statistics is difficult to obtain and may be understated or overstated. The Communist-governed countries of China, Vietnam and North Korea are officially atheist, thus the number of Buddhists and other religious adherents may be under-reported.\n\nJainism is found mainly in India and in oversea Indian communities such as the United States and Malaysia.\nSikhism is found in Northern India and amongst overseas Indian communities in other parts of Asia, especially Southeast Asia.\nConfucianism is found predominantly in Mainland China, South Korea, Taiwan and in overseas Chinese populations.\nTaoism is found mainly in Mainland China, Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore. Taoism is easily syncretized with Mahayana Buddhism for many Chinese, thus exact religious statistics is difficult to obtain and may be understated or overstated.\n\nSome of the events pivotal in the Asia territory related to the relationship with the outside world in the post-Second World War were:\n\nThe polymath Rabindranath Tagore, a Bengali poet, dramatist, and writer from Santiniketan, now in West Bengal, India, became in 1913 the first Asian Nobel laureate. He won his Nobel Prize in Literature for notable impact his prose works and poetic thought had on English, French, and other national literatures of Europe and the Americas. He is also the writer of the national anthems of Bangladesh and India.\n\nOther Asian writers who won Nobel Prize for literature include Yasunari Kawabata (Japan, 1968), Kenzaburō Ōe (Japan, 1994), Gao Xingjian (China, 2000), Orhan Pamuk (Turkey, 2006), and Mo Yan (China, 2012). Some may consider the American writer, Pearl S. Buck, an honorary Asian Nobel laureate, having spent considerable time in China as the daughter of missionaries, and based many of her novels, namely \"The Good Earth\" (1931) and \"The Mother\" (1933), as well as the biographies of her parents of their time in China, \"The Exile\" and \"Fighting Angel\", all of which earned her the Literature prize in 1938.\n\nAlso, Mother Teresa of India and Shirin Ebadi of Iran were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their significant and pioneering efforts for democracy and human rights, especially for the rights of women and children. Ebadi is the first Iranian and the first Muslim woman to receive the prize. Another Nobel Peace Prize winner is Aung San Suu Kyi from Burma for her peaceful and non-violent struggle under a military dictatorship in Burma. She is a nonviolent pro-democracy activist and leader of the National League for Democracy in Burma (Myanmar) and a noted prisoner of conscience. She is a Buddhist and was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991. Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for \"his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China\" on 8 October 2010. He is the first Chinese citizen to be awarded a Nobel Prize of any kind while residing in China. In 2014, Kailash Satyarthi from India and Malala Yousafzai from Pakistan were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize \"for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education\".\n\nSir C.V. Raman is the first Asian to get a Nobel prize in Sciences. He won the Nobel Prize in Physics \"for his work on the scattering of light and for the discovery of the effect named after him\".\n\nJapan has won the most Nobel Prizes of any Asian nation with 24 followed by India which has won 13.\n\nAmartya Sen, (born 3 November 1933) is an Indian economist who was awarded the 1998 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his contributions to welfare economics and social choice theory, and for his interest in the problems of society's poorest members.\n\nOther Asian Nobel Prize winners include Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, Abdus Salam, Malala Yousafzai, Robert Aumann, Menachem Begin, Aaron Ciechanover, Avram Hershko, Daniel Kahneman, Shimon Peres, Yitzhak Rabin, Ada Yonath, Yasser Arafat, José Ramos-Horta and Bishop Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo of Timor Leste, Kim Dae-jung, and 13 Japanese scientists. Most of the said awardees are from Japan and Israel except for Chandrasekhar and Raman (India), Abdus Salam and Malala yousafzai, (Pakistan), Arafat (Palestinian Territories), Kim (South Korea), and Horta and Belo (Timor Leste).\n\nIn 2006, Dr. Muhammad Yunus of Bangladesh was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for the establishment of Grameen Bank, a community development bank that lends money to poor people, especially women in Bangladesh. Dr. Yunus received his PhD in economics from Vanderbilt University, United States. He is internationally known for the concept of micro credit which allows poor and destitute people with little or no collateral to borrow money. The borrowers typically pay back money within the specified period and the incidence of default is very low.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has received approximately eighty-four awards over his spiritual and political career. On 22 June 2006, he became one of only four people ever to be recognized with Honorary Citizenship by the Governor General of Canada. On 28 May 2005, he received the Christmas Humphreys Award from the Buddhist Society in the United Kingdom. Most notable was the Nobel Peace Prize, presented in Oslo, Norway on 10 December 1989.\n\nWithin the above-mentioned states are several partially recognized countries with limited to no international recognition. None of them are members of the UN:\nReferences to articles:\n\nSpecial topics:\n\nLists:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20532376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20532376", "title": "Caio Prado Júnior", "text": "Caio Prado Júnior\n\nCaio da Silva Prado Júnior (February 11, 1907 – November 23, 1990) was a Brazilian historian, geographer, writer and politician.\n\nHis works inaugurated a new historiographic tradition in Brazil, identified with Marxism, which led to new interpretations of the Brazilian colonial society.\n\nCaio Prado graduated with a degree in law from Faculdade do Largo de São Francisco, São Paulo in 1928, where he would later become a Professor of Political Economy. He was politically active during the 30's and 40's, including during the 1930 Revolution. In 1933, he published his first work - \"Evolução Política do Brasil\" (Political Evolution of Brazil) - an attempt to understand the country's political and social history. In 1934 he took part in the foundation of Brazilian Geographers Association.\n\nAfter a trip to the Soviet Union, at the time under Stalin's dictatorship, he published \"URSS - um novo mundo\" (Soviet Union - a New World), which was banned by Getúlio Vargas' government's censorship. He then joined the Aliança Nacional Libertadora which he chaired in São Paulo.\n\nIn 1942 he published the classic \"Formação do Brasil Contemporâneo - Colônia\" (Formation of Contemporary Brazil - Colony, which should have been the first part of a work on Brazilian historic evolution. However, the following volumes were never written. In 1945 he was elected \"deputado estadual\" for the \"Brazilian Communist Party\". He published the newspaper \"A Platéia\" and, in 1943, with Arthur Neves and Monteiro Lobato, he founded Editora Brasiliense (Brasiliense Publishing House), for which, later, he published \"Revista Brasiliense\", between 1956 and 1964. After 1964, he was persecuted by the military dictatorship.\n\nIn 1966 he was elected Intellectual of the Year by the União Brasileira de Escritores, following the publication of \"A revolução brasileira\" (Brazilian Revolution).\n\nThe most important works of Caio Prado Junior are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17155673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17155673", "title": "Cohors IV Delmatarum", "text": "Cohors IV Delmatarum\n\nCohors quarta Delmatarum (\"4th Cohort of Dalmatae\") was a Roman auxiliary infantry regiment raised in the 1st century AD and continuing to serve into the 2nd century.\n\nThe cohort is named after the Dalmatae, an Illyrian-speaking tribe that inhabited the Adriatic coastal mountain range of the eponymous Dalmatia. The ancient geographer Strabo describes these mountains as extremely rugged, and the Dalmatae as backward and warlike. He claims that they did not use money long after their neighbours adopted it and that they \"made war on the Romans for a long time\". He also criticises the Dalmatae, a nation of pastoralists, for turning fertile plains into sheep pasture. Indeed, the name of the tribe itself is believed to mean \"shepherds\", derived from the Illyrian word \"delme\" (\"sheep\"). The final time this people fought against Rome was in the Illyrian revolt of 6-9 AD. The revolt was started by Dalmatae auxiliary forces and soon spread all over Dalmatia and Pannonia. The resulting war was described by the Roman writer Suetonius as the most difficult faced by Rome since the Punic Wars two centuries earlier. But after the war, the Dalmatae became a loyal and important source of recruits for the Roman army.\n\nAccording to Holder, a total of 12 \"cohortes Delmatarum\" appear to have been raised after the suppression of the Illyrian revolt in two series, of 7 and 5 respectively. All these units were in existence by the time of emperor Claudius (r. 41-54) Of these, 9 appear to have survived into the 2nd century.\n\nThe regiment was probably raised by founder-emperor Augustus (r. 30BC-14AD) after 9 AD. It was certainly in existence by the time of Claudius (r. 41-54). Its early movements are unknown. Holder suggests that the regiment may have taken part in the Roman invasion of Britain (43) or the suppression of the revolt of Boudicca in 61. But this ignores the evidence of three 1st-century tombstones from the Rhine forts of Bingen and Bingerbrück in Germania, where it was clearly stationed. The regiment first appears in the datable epigraphic record in 103, in Britannia. It was still there in 126-30, the time of its last datable inscription, a building inscription at the Roman fort of Hardknot (Cumbria). The latter is incomplete, but is plausibly though not conclusively attributed to \"IV Delmatarum\". The regiment's disappearance from the epigraphic record in the early 2nd century has led Spaul to suggest that the regiment was merged with another to form the cohors I Pannoniorum et Delmatarum equitata c.R. attested in Germania Inferior in 127 and beyond. But the record overall is too incomplete to support any firm conclusions.\n\nThe names of 3 \"praefecti\" (regimental commanders) are attested. Titus Iunius Severus was a Spaniard from Denia. A second man, whose middle name only, Pactumerius, has survived, left a votive stone at Madaura in Numidia (Mdaurusch, Algeria). The origin of the third, Lucius Aprius Liburnus, is revealed by his \"cognomen\" (third name): of the Liburni tribe, western neighbors of the Dalmatae. In addition, the names of 3 \"caligati\" (common soldiers) survive on the 1st-century tombstones from Bingen. All were Illyrians: 1 Dalmata, 1 Liburnus and 1 Daverzus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "181080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181080", "title": "Courland", "text": "Courland\n\nCourland (; ; ; German and Scandinavian languages: \"Kurland\"; /; ; ; ), is one of the historical and cultural regions in western Latvia. The largest city is Liepāja, the third largest city in Latvia. The regions of Semigallia and Selonia are sometimes considered as part of Courland as they were formerly held by the same duke.\n\nSituated in western Latvia, Courland roughly corresponds to the former Latvian districts of Kuldīga, Liepāja, Saldus, Talsi, Tukums and Ventspils.\n\nWhen combined with Semigallia and Selonia, Courland's northeastern boundary is the river Daugava, which separates it from the regions of Latgale and Vidzeme. To the north, Courland's coast lies along the Gulf of Riga. On the west it is bordered by the Baltic Sea, and on the south by Lithuania. It lies between 55° 45′ and 57° 45′ North and 21° and 27° East.\n\nThe area comprises 27,286 km² (10,535 sq.mi.), of which 262 km² (101 sq.mi.) is made up of lakes. The landscape generally has a low and undulating character, with flat and marshy coastlands. The interior features wooded dunes, covered with pine, spruce, birch, and oak, with swamps and lakes, and fertile patches between. Courland's elevation never rises more than 213 m (700 ft) above sea level.\n\nThe Jelgava plain divides Courland into two parts, the western side, which is fertile and densely inhabited, except in the north, and the eastern side, less fertile and thinly inhabited.\n\nNearly one hundred rivers drain Courland, but only three of these rivers – the Daugava, the Lielupe and the Venta – are navigable. They all flow northwestward and discharge into the Baltic Sea.\n\nOwing to its numerous lakes and marshes, Courland has a damp, often foggy, and changeable climate; its winters are severe.\n\nIn ancient times the Curonians, a pagan tribe, inhabited Courland. The Brethren of the Sword, a German military order, subdued the Curonians and converted them to Christianity in the first quarter of the 13th century. Thus in 1230 the Curonian king Lammekinus (Lamikis) made peace directly with the papal legate. He accepted baptism, and became a vassal of the pope. In 1237 the area passed into the rule of the Teutonic Knights owing to the amalgamation of this order with that of the Brethren of the Sword.\n\nThe Livonian Confederation was a loosely organized confederation formed by the German-led Livonian Order and various bishoprics that encompassed much of present-day Estonia and Latvia. It existed from 1228 to the 1560s, when it was dismembered during the Livonian Wars.\n\nThe Duchy of Courland and Semigallia was a semi-independent duchy that existed from 1561 until 1795, encompassing the areas of Courland and Semigallia. Although nominally a vassal state of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, the dukes operated autonomously. In the 18th century Russia acquired great influence over the Duchy.\n\nThe Duchy was one of the smallest European nations to colonize overseas territories, establishing short-lived outposts on the Caribbean islands of Tobago and Trinidad and at the mouth of the Gambia River in Africa on what was then known as James Island.\n\nIn 1795, the last Duke, Peter von Biron, ceded the Duchy to the Russian Empire.\n\nThe former Bishopric of Courland was directly incorporated into the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth as the Piltyń County of the Wenden and later Inflanty Voivodeship.\n\nAfter annexation by the Russian Empire, the territory of the former Duchy formed the Courland Governorate.\n\nFrom the time of the Northern Crusades in the early 13th century, most land was owned by nobles descended from the German invaders. In 1863, the Russian authorities issued laws to enable Latvians, who formed the bulk of the population, to acquire the farms which they held, and special banks were founded to help them. By this means, some occupants bought their farms, but the great mass of the population remained landless, and lived as hired labourers, occupying a low position in the social scale.\n\nAgriculture was the chief occupation, with the principal crops being rye, barley, oats, wheat, flax, and potatoes. The large estates conducted agriculture with skill and scientific knowledge. Fruit grew well. Excellent breeds of cattle, sheep and pigs were kept. Liepāja and Jelgava operated as the principal industrial centres, with ironworks, agricultural machinery works, tanneries, glass and soap works. Flax spinning took place mostly as a domestic industry. Iron and limestone were the chief minerals; a little amber was found on the coast. The only seaports were Liepāja, Ventspils and Palanga, there being none on the Courland coast of the Gulf of Riga.\n\nIn 1870 the population was 619,154; in 1897 it was 674,437 (of whom 345,756 were women); in 1906 it was estimated at 714,200. Of the whole, 79% were Latvians, 8.4% Baltic Germans, about 8% Jews, 1.4% Russians, 1% Lithuanians, 1% Poles, and some Livonians.\n\nThe chief towns of the ten districts were Jelgava (Mitau), Courland's capital (pop. 35,011 in 1897); Liepāja (Libau) (pop. 64,500 in 1897); Bauska (6,543); Jaunjelgava (Friedrichstadt) (5,223); Kuldīga (Goldingen) (9,733); Grobiņa (1,489); Aizpute (Hasenpoth) (3,338); Ilūkste (Illuxt) (2,340); Talsi (Talsen) (6,215); Tukums (Tuckum) (7542); and Ventspils (Windau) (7,132).\n\n75% of the population belonged to the prevailing denomination, Lutheranism; the rest belonged to the Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic churches. There was a small but vigorous Jewish population.\n\nDuring World War I, Courland formed part of the Eastern Front theatre of operations that saw fighting primarily between forces of the Russian and German Empires. Following Russia's Great Retreat of 1915, Courland came under control of the German Army's \"Ober Ost\" commander in the person of Paul von Hindenburg, a Prussian military hero. (The Russian authorities of the Courland Governorate were exiled to Tartu never to return.) With large territories coming under the \"Ober Ost\"'s administration as a result of military successes on the Eastern Front, General Erich Ludendorff was charged with managing the large area now under its jurisdiction. Courland District (which included parts of Semigallia) was made one of three districts of the region, which also came to be known as \"Ober Ost\".\n\n\nAfter World War I, Courland became one of five provinces of the newly formed nation of Latvia. These provinces corresponded to Latvia's four traditional regions plus Riga. In 1935, Courland had an area of and a population of 292,659 making it the least populous of the provinces.\n\nThe Soviet Army occupied Latvia in conformity with the terms of 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact on 17 June 1940. On 5 August 1940, the Soviet Union annexed the region along with the rest of Latvia which was made a constituent republic of the USSR, the Latvian SSR.\n\nAt the start of Operation Barbarossa in the summer of 1941, the German Wehrmacht's Army Group North headed by Field Marshal Wilhelm Ritter von Leeb overran Courland, along with the rest of the Baltic littoral. In 1944 the Red Army lifted the siege of Leningrad and re-conquered the Baltic area along with much of Ukraine and Belarus. However, some 200,000 German troops held out in Courland. With their backs to the Baltic Sea, they remained trapped in what became known as the Courland Pocket, blockaded by the Red Army and by the Red Baltic Fleet. Colonel-General Heinz Guderian, the Chief of the German General Staff, pleaded with Adolf Hitler to allow evacuation of the troops in Courland by sea for use in the defense of Germany. Hitler refused, and ordered the Wehrmacht, Waffen-SS, Luftwaffe and Kriegsmarine forces in Courland to continue the defence of the area. Hitler believed them necessary to protect Kriegsmarine submarine bases along the Baltic coast. On January 15, 1945, Army Group Courland (\"Heeresgruppe Kurland\") formed under Colonel-General Dr. Lothar Rendulic. The blockade by elements of the Leningrad Front remained until May 8, 1945, when Army Group Courland, then under its last commander, Colonel-General Carl Hilpert, surrendered to Marshal Leonid Govorov, the commander of the Leningrad Front (reinforced by elements of the 2nd Baltic Front) on the Courland perimeter. At this time the group consisted of the remnants of some 31 divisions. After May 9, 1945, approximately 203,000 troops of Army Group Courland began to be moved to Soviet prison camps to the east. The majority of them never returned to Germany (Haupt, 1997).\n\nCourland remained part of the Latvian SSR within the Soviet Union following World War II. Courland was no longer an administrative unit under the Soviets but an early Liepāja Oblast, one of three oblasts in Latvia, roughly corresponded to Courland.\n\nWith the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Courland became part of independent Latvia once more and it remains so to this day. Although Courland is not an administrative entity today, the Courland \"(Kurzeme)\" Planning Region, with an area of and a population of 301,621 in 2008, includes much of the traditional region. The remainder of Courland is part of the planning regions of Riga and Semigallia \"(Zemgale)\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5602285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5602285", "title": "Districts of Iraq", "text": "Districts of Iraq\n\nIraq's 19 governorates are subdivided into 120 districts (\"kaza\").\nThe district usually bears the same name as the district capital. \n\nThe districts are listed below, by governorate (with capital in parentheses):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote that northern Sinjar, northern Tel Afar, Akre and northern Shekhan districts are currently under illegal Kurdistan Regional Government de facto control. \n\n\nDohuk Governorate is part of Iraqi Kurdistan. \n\nErbil Governorate is part of Iraqi Kurdistan, while the status of the southern Makhmur District is contested.\n\nSulaymaniyah Governorate is part of Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nHalabja Governorate is part of Iraqi Kurdistan and still officially a part of Sulaymaniyah Governorate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31600737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31600737", "title": "Emanuel Bowen", "text": "Emanuel Bowen\n\nEmanuel Bowen (1694?–1767) was an English map engraver, who worked for George II of England and Louis XV of France as a geographer.\n\nAn 18th-century map and print seller, he worked in London from about 1714 producing some of the best and attractive maps of the century. A recurring feature of Bowen's work, evident even on the early road maps, was his habit of filling every corner and space of the map with jottings and footnotes, both historical and topographical.\n\nOne of his earliest engraved works, \"Britannia Depicta\", published in 1720, contained over two hundred road maps together with a miniature county map of each of the counties of England and Wales. It followed on John Ogilby's earlier work with updated style of historical and heraldic detail. It was an unusual feature of the atlas that the maps were engraved on both sides of each page, and this resulted in a handier-sized book.\n\nIn spite of his royal appointments and apparent prosperity he died in poverty and his son, who carried on the business, was no more fortunate and died in a Clerkenwell workhouse in 1790.\n\nHe published \"A Complete System of Geography,\" 1744-7; an 'English Atlas, with a new set of maps,' 1745(?); a 'Complete Atlas ... in sixty-eight Maps,' 1752; 'Atlas Minimus; or a new set of Pocket Maps,' 1758; and a series of separate maps of the English counties, of Germany, Asia Minor, and Persia, between 1736 and 1776.\n\nThomas Bowen was his son; Thomas Kitchin and Thomas Jefferys were his apprentices.\n\nBowen's map, \"A Complete Map of the Southern Continent survey'd by Capt. Abel Tasman & depicted by order of the East India Company in Holland in the Stadt House at Amsterdam,\" was essentially a copy of the map Melchisédech Thévenot had published in \"Relations de divers Voyages curieux\" (Paris, 1663, v.1). Although Thévenot said that he had taken his chart from the one inlaid into the floor of the Amsterdam Town Hall, it appears to be an almost exact copy of that of Joan Blaeu in his \"Archipelagus Orientalis sive Asiaticus\" published in 1659 in the \"Kurfürsten Atlas (Atlas of the Great Elector)\". The map of the world set into the floor of the great hall of the Amsterdam Town Hall was drawn from Blaeu's world map of 1648. Once Blaeu's map of the world appeared other mapmakers, such as Thévenot, copied his depiction of New Holland. \"Hollandia Nova\" in the \"Kurfürsten Atlas\" is shown as it appears in Blaeu's world map of 1648. It appears to have been Thévenot who introduced a differentiation between \"Hollandia Nova\" to the west and \"Terre Australe\" to the east of the meridian corresponding to 135° East of Greenwich, emphasised by the latitude staff running down that meridian, as there is no such division on Blaeu's map.\n\nA legend on Bowen's map emphasised the separation between \"Hollandia Nova\" and \"Terra Australis\" that had been introduced either inadvertently or intentionally by Thévenot when he placed the two names on either side of the latitude staff running down the 135° East of Greenwich meridian. Bowen's map legend identified \"Terra Australis\" as the land described by Quirós by saying:\nIt is also requisite to observe that the Country discovered by Ferdinand de Quiros lies according to his description on the East Side of this Continent directly opposite to Carpentaria which if Attentively considered will add no small weight to the Credit of what he has written about that Country and which has been very rashly as well as very unjustly treated by some Critical Writers as a Fiction; Whereas it Appears from this Map of Actual Discoveries, that there is a Country where Ferdinand de Quiros says he found one: And if so why may not that Country be such a one as he describes? \n\nAnother legend added by Bowen to the map called for discovery and settlement of \"Terra Australis\":\nIt is impossible to conceive a Country that promises fairer from its Situation than this of , no longer incognita, as this Map demonstrates, but the Southern Continent Discovered. It lies precisely in the richest climates of the World...and therefore whoever perfectly discovers and settles it will become infalliably possessed of Territories as Rich, as fruitful, and as capable of Improvement, as any that have hitherto been found out, either in the East Indies or the West.\n\nThe territorial claim made by Britain when the colony of New South Wales was established in 1788 included all of Australia eastward of the meridian of 135° East dividing New Holland from Terra Australis, as shown on Bowen's map.\n\nc.1714 \"Maps of the Continents\"\n1720 (with John Owen) \"Britannia Depicta or Ogilby Improved.\"\n1744–47 \"A Complete System of Geography.\"\n1744–48 maps for \"Complete Collection of Voyages\" (Harris).\n1752 \"Complete Atlas Distinct View of the Known World\".\n1755–60 (with Thomas Kitchin) \"The Large English Atlas\" (1763/67/77/85/87 further editions and enlargements).\n1758 (with John Gibson) \"Atlas Minimus\" (re-issued 1774 and 1792).\n1762 (with Thomas Kitchin) \"The Royal English Atlas\" 1778/80 re-issued (1794–1828 re-issued as the \"English Atlas\").\nc.1763 (with Benjamin Martin) \"The Natural History of England\".\n1766 \"Universal History of the World\".\n1767 (with Thomas Bowen) \"Atlas Anglicanus\" (re-issued 1777).\nc.1777 (Thomas Bowen) \"The World showing the Discoveries of Captain Cook and other Circumnavigators\".\nc.1784 (Thomas Bowen) Maps in \"Rapkins's History of England\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26095790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26095790", "title": "Fond-Zombi", "text": "Fond-Zombi\n\nFond-Zombi (or Quartier Fond Zombi) is a populated place in the arrondissement of Fort-de-France on Martinique.\n"}
{"id": "5249689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5249689", "title": "Forma Italiae", "text": "Forma Italiae\n\nForma Italiae is a project whose aim it is to compile a complete archaeological map and gazetteer of Italy.\n\nGiuseppe Lugli was the founder of the project. Thus far 46 volumes have appeared as of 2017. The volumes are published by Leo S. Olschki Editore in Florence, Italy. From volume 46 the series is published by Edizioni Quasar. The current director of the project is Luisa Migliorati of the \"Sapienza\" Università di Roma.\n\n"}
{"id": "389634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=389634", "title": "Gagauzia", "text": "Gagauzia\n\nGagauzia or Gagauz Yeri ( or ; ; , \"Gagaúzija\"), officially the Autonomous Territorial Unit of Gagauzia (; ; , ), is an autonomous region of Moldova. Its name comes from the Gagauz people. \"Gagauz Yeri\" literally means \"place of the Gagauz\".\n\nAccording to some theories, the Gagauz people descend from the Seljuq Turks who settled in Dobruja following the Anatolian Seljuq Sultan Izzeddin Keykavus II (1236–1276). They may be descended from Pechenegs, Uz (Oghuz) and Cuman (Kipchak) peoples.\n\nMore specifically, one clan of Oghuz Turks is known to have migrated to the Balkans during intertribal conflicts with other Turks. This Oghuz Turk clan converted from Islam to Orthodox Christianity after settling in medieval Bulgaria) and were called Gagauz Turks. A large group of the Gagauz later left Bulgaria and settled in southern Bessarabia, along with a group of ethnic Bulgarians.\n\nAccording to other theories, Gagauz are descendants of Kutrigur Bulgarians. In the official Gagauz museum, a plaque mentions that one of the two main theories is that they descend from the Bulgars.\n\nIn 1812, Bessarabia, previously the eastern half of the Principality of Moldavia, was annexed by the Russian Empire following the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in the Russo-Turkish War between 1806 and 1812 (\"see Treaty of Bucharest (1812)\"). Nogai tribes who inhabited several villages in south Bessarabia (or Budjak) were forced to leave. Between 1812 and 1846, the Russians relocated the Gagauz people from what is today eastern Bulgaria (which was then under the Ottoman Empire) to the orthodox Bessarabia, mainly in the settlements vacated by the Nogai tribes. They settled there together with Bessarabian Bulgarians in Avdarma, Comrat, Congaz, Tomai, Cișmichioi, and other former Nogai villages. Some Gagauz were also settled in the part of the Principality of Moldavia that did not come under Russian control in 1812. But, within several years, villagers moved to live with their own people in the compact area descendants inhabit in the 21st century in the south of Bessarabia.\n\nWith the exception of a five-day \"de facto\" independence in the winter of 1906, when a peasant uprising declared an autonomous \"Republic of Comrat\", ethnic Gagauzians have been ruled by other dominant groups: the Russian Empire (1812–1917), Romania (1918–1940 and 1941–1944), the Soviet Union (1940–1941 and 1944–1991), and Moldova (1917–1918 and 1991 to date).\n\nGagauz nationalism remained an intellectual movement during the 1980s, but strengthened by the end of the decade, as the Soviet Union began to embrace democratic ideals. In 1988, activists from the local intelligentsia aligned with other ethnic minorities to create a movement known as the \"Gagauz People\". A year later, the \"Gagauz People\" held its first assembly; they passed a resolution demanding the creation of an autonomous territory in southern Moldova, with the city of Comrat as its capital.\n\nThe Gagauzian national movement intensified when Moldavian (Romanian) was accepted as the official language of the Republic of Moldova in August 1989, replacing Russian, the official language of the USSR. A part of the multiethnic population of southern Moldova was concerned about the change in official languages. They had a lack of confidence in the central government in Chișinău. The Gagauz were also worried about the implications for them if Moldova reunited with Romania, as seemed likely at the time. In August 1990, Comrat declared itself an autonomous republic, but the Moldovan government annulled the declaration as unconstitutional. At that time, Stepan Topal emerged as the leader of the Gagauz national movement.\n\nSupport for the Soviet Union remained high in Gagauzia, with a referendum in March 1991 returning an almost unanimous vote in favour of remaining part of the USSR. Many Gagauz supported the Moscow coup attempt in August 1991, and Gagauzia declared itself an independent republic on 19 August 1991. In September Transnistria declared its independence, thus further straining relations with the government of Moldova. But, when the Moldovan parliament voted on independence on 27 August 1991, six of the 12 Gagauz deputies in the Moldovan parliament voted in favour, while the other six abstained. The Moldovan government began to pay more attention to minority rights.\n\nIn February 1994, President Mircea Snegur promised autonomy to the Gagauz, but opposed independence. He was also opposed to the suggestion that Moldova become a federal state made up of three republics: Moldova, Gagauzia, and Transnistria.\n\nIn 1994, the Parliament of Moldova awarded to \"the people of Gagauzia\" (through the adoption of the new Constitution of Moldova) the right of \"external self-determination\". On 23 December 1994, the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova accepted the \"Law on the Special Legal Status of Gagauzia\" (Gagauz: \"Gagauz Yeri\"), resolving the dispute peacefully. This date is now a Gagauz holiday. Gagauzia is now a \"national-territorial autonomous unit\" with three official languages: Romanian, Gagauz, and Russian.\n\nThree cities and 23 communes were included in the Autonomous Gagauz Territory: all localities with more than 50% ethnic Gagauz in population, and those localities with between 40% and 50% Gagauz which expressed their desire by referendum to be included to determine Gagauzia's borders. In 1995, Gheorghe Tabunșcic was elected to serve as the Governor (Romanian: \"Guvernator\", Gagauz: \"Başkan\") of Gagauzia for a four-year term, as were the deputies of the local parliament, \"The People's Assembly\" (Gagauz: \"Halk Topluşu\"), with Petr Pașalî as chairman.\n\nDmitrii Croitor won the 1999 governor elections and began to assert the rights granted to the governor by the 1994 agreement. The central authorities of Moldova proved unwilling to accept the results, initiating a lengthy stand-off between the autonomy and Chișinău. Finally Croitor resigned in 2002 due to the pressure from the Moldovan government, which accused him of abuse of authority, relations with the separatist authorities of Transnistria and other charges.\n\nThe central electoral commission of Gagauzia did not register Croitor as a candidate for the post of the Governor in the subsequent elections, and Gheorgi Tabunshik was elected in what was described as unfair elections. Mihail Formuzal served as the Governor of Gagauzia from 2006 until 2015. That year Irina Vlah was elected to the position, with 51% of the vote.\n\nOn 2 February 2014, Gagauzia held a referendum. An overwhelming majority of voters opted for closer ties with Russia over EU integration. They also said they preferred the independence of Gagauzia if Moldova chooses to enter the EU.\n\nOn 23 March 2015, Irina Vlah was elected as the new governor after a strongly pro-Russian campaign, dominated by the quest for closer ties with the Russian Federation.\n\nGagauzia is divided into three districts. It also is split into four enclaves. The main, central enclave includes the cities Comrat and Ceadîr-Lunga and is divided into two districts with those cities serving as administrative centers. The second largest enclave is located around the city of Vulcănești, while two smaller enclaves are the villages of Copceac and Carbalia. The village of Carbalia falls under administration of Vulcănești, while Copceac is part of the Ceadir-Lunga district.\n\nGagauzia consists of one municipality, two cities, and 23 communes containing a total of 32 localities.\n\nThe autonomy of Gagauzia is guaranteed by the Moldovan constitution and regulated by the 1994 Gagauz Autonomy Act. If Moldova decided to unite with Romania, Gagauzia would have the right of self-determination. The Gagauzian People's Assembly (Gagauz: \"Halk Topluşu\"; Romanian: \"Adunarea Populară\") has a mandate for lawmaking powers within its own jurisdiction. This includes laws on education, culture, local development, budgetary and taxation issues, social security, and questions of territorial administration. The People's Assembly also has two special powers: it may participate in the formulation of Moldova's internal and foreign policy; and, should central regulations interfere with the jurisdiction of Gagauz-Yeri, it has the right of appeal to Moldova's Constitutional Court.\n\nThe highest official of Gagauzia, who heads the executive power structure, is the Governor of Gagauzia (Gagauz: \"Başkan\";Romanian: \"Guvernatorul Găgăuziei\"). She/he is elected by popular suffrage for a four-year term, and has power over all public administrative bodies of Gagauzia. She/he is also a member of the Government of the Republic of Moldova. Eligibility for governorship requires fluency in the Gagauz language, Moldovan citizenship, and a minimum age of 35 years.\n\nPermanent executive power in Gagauz Yeri is exercised by the Executive Committee (\"Bakannik Komiteti\"/\"Comitetul Executiv\"). Its members are appointed by the Governor, or by a simple majority vote in the Assembly at its first session. The Committee ensures the application of the laws of the Republic of Moldova and those of the Assembly of Gagauz-Yeri.\n\nAs part of its autonomy, Gagauzia has its own police force.\n\nGagauz Halkı is a former Gagauz separatist political party, now outlawed.\n\nElections for the local governor and parliament as well as referendums take place in the autonomous region.\n\nThe population also votes in the national legislatives elections.\n!style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=center colspan=\"2\" valign=center|Parties and coalitions\n!style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|Votes\n!style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|%\n!style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|+/−\n\nThe base of the Gagauzian economy is agriculture, particularly viticulture. The main export products are wine, sunflower oil, non-alcoholic beverages, wool, leather and textiles. There are 12 wineries, processing more than 400,000 tonnes annually. There are also two oil factories, two carpet factories, one meat factory, and one non-alcoholic beverage factory.\n\nThere are 451 kilometers of roads in Gagauzia, of which 82% are paved.\n\nAccording to the 2014 census, Gagauzia had a population of 134,132, of which 36.2% urban and 63.8% rural population.\n\n\nAccording to the 2014 census results, the ethnic breakdown in Gagauzia was:\nThere is an ongoing identity controversy over whether Romanians and Moldovans are the same ethnic group. At the census, every citizen could only declare one nationality; consequently, one could not declare oneself both Moldovan and Romanian.</small>\n\n\nGagauzia has 55 schools, the Comrat Pedagogical College (high school plus two years over high school), and Comrat State University (\"Komrat Devlet Universiteti \"). Turkey financed the creation of a Turkish cultural centre (\"Türk İşbirliği Ve Kalkınma İdaresi Başkanlığı\") and a Turkish library (\"Atatürk Kütüphanesi\"). In the village of Beșalma, there is a Gagauz historical and ethnographical museum established by Dimitriy Kara Çöban.\n\nDespite declaring Gagauz as the national language of the Autonomy, the local authorities do not provide any full Gagauz-teaching school, most of those are Russian-language as opposed to inner Moldovan full Romanian language education. Although pupils are introduced to all of the usual school languages (Russian, Romanian, English or French, Gagauz), the local language continues to be the most popular language.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18950616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18950616", "title": "Geography of Angola", "text": "Geography of Angola\n\nAngola is located on the western Atlantic Coast of southern Africa between Namibia and the Republic of the Congo. It also is bordered by the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Zambia to the east. The country consists of a sparsely watered and somewhat sterile coastal plain extending inland for a distance varying from . Slightly inland and parallel to the coast is a belt of hills and mountains and behind those a large plateau.\n\nThe rock formations of Angola are met with in three distinct regions:\n\n\nThe central plateau consists of ancient crystalline rocks with granites overlain by non-fossiliferous sandstones and conglomerates of Paleozoic age. The outcrops are largely hidden under laterite. The median zone is composed largely of crystalline rocks with granites and some Palaeozoic unfossiliferous rocks. The littoral zone contains the only fossiliferous strata. These are of Tertiary and Cretaceous ages, the latter rocks resting on a reddish sandstone of older date. The Cretaceous rocks of the Dombe Grande region (near Benguela) are of Albian age and belong to the \"Acanthoceras mamillari\" zone. The beds containing \"Schloenbachia inflata\" are referable to the Gault. Rocks of Tertiary age are met with at Dombe Grande, Moçâmedes and near Luanda. The sandstones with gypsum, copper and sulfur of Dombe are doubtfully considered to be of Triassic age. Recent eruptive rocks, mainly basalts, form a line of hills almost bare of vegetation between Benguela and Moçâmedes. Nepheline basalts and liparites occur at Dombe Grande. The presence of gum copal in considerable quantities in the superficial rocks is characteristic of certain regions.\nThe geology and outline of the west coast of Angola is related to the opening of South Atlantic that started in the Early Cretaceous and continued until the Eocene, which is reflected in the invertebrate and vertebrate fossil fauna. The diamond mine of Catoca preserved unexpected ancient dinosaur, mammal and crocodylomorph tracks with 128 Million years.\n\nSouthern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Namibia and Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nGeographic coordinates: \n\nMap references: Africa\n\n\"country comparison to the world:\" 30\n\n\n\n\n\nCoastline: 1,600 km\n\nMaritime claims: \n\nLike the rest of tropical Africa, Angola experiences distinct, alternating rainy and dry seasons. The coastal strip is tempered by the cool Benguela Current, resulting in a climate similar to coastal Peru or Baja California. It is semiarid in the South and along the coast to Luanda. There is a short rainy season lasting from February to April. Summers are hot and dry, while winters are mild. The north has a cool, dry season. The climate is greatly influenced by the prevailing winds, which arc W., S.W. and S.S.W. Two seasons are distinguished – the cool, from June to September; and the rainy, from October to May. The heaviest rainfall occurs in April, and is accompanied by violent storms. \nThe far north and Cabinda have the highest annual rainfall.\n\nAngola has four principal natural regions: the arid coastal lowland, stretching from Namibia to Luanda and characterized by low plains and terraces; green hills and mountains, rising inland from the coast into a great escarpment; a large area of high inland plains of dry savanna, called the high plateau (planalto), which extends eastward and south-east from the escarpment; and rain forest in the north and in Cabinda. The highest point in Angola is Morro de Môco, at 2,620 m. Elevations generally range from .\n\nThe coast is for the most part flat, with occasional low cliffs and bluffs of red sandstone. There is but one deep inlet of the sea – Great Fish Bay (or Baía dos Tigres). Farther north are Port Alexander, Little Fish Bay and Lobito Bay, while shallower bays are numerous. Lobito Bay has water sufficient to allow large ships to unload close inshore. The coastal lowland rises from the sea in a series of low terraces. This region varies in width from about 25 km near Benguela to more than 150 km in the Cuanza River Valley just south of Angola's capital, Luanda, and is markedly different from Angola's highland mass. The Atlantic Ocean's cold, northwardflowing Benguela Current substantially reduces precipitation along the coast, making the region relatively arid or nearly so shaouth of Benguela (where it forms the northern extension of the Namib Desert), and quite dry even in its northern reaches. Even where, as around Luanda, the average annual rainfall may be as much as fifty centimeters, it is not common for the rains to fail. Given this pattern of precipitation, the far south is marked by sand dunes, which give way to dry scrub along the middle coast. Portions of the northern coastal plain are covered by thick brush.\n\nThe approach to the great central plateau of Africa is marked by the west-central highlands, a series of irregular escarpments and cuestas parallel to the coast at distances ranging from 20 km to 100 km inland as Tala Mugongo (), Chella and Vissecua (). The Cuanza River divides the mountain zone into two parts. The northern part rises gradually from the coastal zone to an average elevation of 500 meters, with crests as high as 1,000 to 1,800 meters. South of the Cuanza River, the hills rise sharply from the coastal lowlands and form a high escarpment, extending from a point east of Luanda and running south through Namibia. The highest peak is Mount Moco (), and the escarpment is steepest in the far south in the Serra da Chella mountain range. In Benguela Province other high points are Loviti (), in 12° 5' S., and Mt. Elonga (). South of the Cuanza is the volcanic mountain Caculo-Cabaza ().\n\nThe high plateau, with an altitude ranging from , lies to the east of the hills and mountains and dominates Angola's terrain. This plateau dominates the land.\n\nThe Zambezi River and several tributaries of the Congo River have their sources in Angola. A large number of rivers originate in the central uplands, but their patterns of flow are diverse and their ultimate outlets varied. A number flow in a more or less westerly course to the Atlantic Ocean, providing water for irrigation in the dry coastal strip and the potential for hydroelectric power, only some of which had been realized by 1988. Two of Angola's most important rivers, the Cuanza (Kwanza) and the Cunene (Kunene), take a more indirect route to the Atlantic, the Cuanza flowing north and the Cunene flowing south before turning west. The Cuanza is the only river wholly within Angola that is navigable—for nearly 200 kilometers from its mouth- -by boats of commercially or militarily significant size. The Congo River, whose mouth and western end form a small portion of Angola's northern border with Zaire, is also navigable.\n\nNorth of the Lunda Divide the Kwango and many other streams flow north from the tableland to join the Kasai River (one of the largest affluents of the Congo), which in its upper course forms for fully the boundary between Angola and the Congo. South of the divide some rivers flow into the Zambezi River system and thence to the Indian Ocean, others to the Okavango River (as the Cubango River is called along the border with Namibia and in Botswana) and thence to Lake Ngami and the Okavango Swamp in Botswana. The tributaries of the Cubango River and several of the southern rivers flowing to the Atlantic are seasonal, completely dry much of the year.\n\nNatural resources: petroleum, diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, copper, feldspar, gold, bauxite, uranium\n\nIrrigated land: (2012(\n\nTotal renewable water resources: (2011)\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural)\n\nNatural hazards: locally heavy rainfall causes periodic flooding on the plateau\n\nOveruse of pastures and subsequent soil erosion attributable to population pressures; desertification; deforestation of tropical rain forest, in response to both international demand for tropical timber and to domestic use as fuel, resulting in loss of biodiversity; soil erosion contributing to water pollution and silting of rivers and dams; inadequate supplies of potable water.\n\nEnvironment—international agreements:\n\nBoth flora and fauna are those characteristic of the greater part of tropical Africa. As far south as Benguela the coast region is rich in oil palms and mangroves. In the northern part of the province are dense forests. In the South towards the Kunene are regions of dense thorn scrub. Rubber vines and trees are abundant, but in some districts their number has been considerably reduced by the primitive methods adopted by native collectors of rubber. The species most common are various root rubbers, notably the \"Carpodinus chylorrhiza\". This species and other varieties of carpodinus are very widely distributed. Landolphias are also found. The coffee, cotton and Guinea pepper plants are indigenous, and the tobacco plant flourishes in several districts. Among the trees are several which yield excellent timber, such as the tacula (\"Pterocarpus tinctorius\"), which grows to an immense size, its wood being blood-red in colour, and the Angola mahogany. The bark of the musuemba (\"Albizzia coriaria\") is largely used in the tanning of leather. The mulundo bears a fruit about the size of a cricket ball covered with a hard green shell and containing scarlet pips like a pomegranate.\n\nThe fauna includes the lion, leopard, cheetah, elephant, giraffe, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, buffalo, zebra, kudu and many other kinds of antelope, wild pig, ostrich and crocodile. Angola previously served as a habitat for the endangered African wild dog, which is now deemed to be extinct within the entire country, stemming from human activities during the period 1965 to 1991. Among fish are the barbel, bream and African yellow fish.\n\nThe following ecoregions have been described in Angola:\n\nGeography – note: the province of Cabinda is an exclave, separated from the rest of the country by the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Angola, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\nAngola\n\n\nAngola (mainland)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9388", "title": "Geography of Estonia", "text": "Geography of Estonia\n\nBetween 57.3 and 59.5 latitude and 21.5 and 28.1 longitude, Estonia lies on the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea on the level northwestern part of the rising East European Platform. It borders the Gulf of Finland, between Latvia and Russia. Average elevation reaches only .\nThe climate is maritime, wet, with moderate winters and cool summers. Oil shale and limestone deposits, along with forests which cover 47% of the land, play key economic roles in this generally resource-poor country. Estonia boasts over 1,500 lakes, numerous bogs, and 3,794 kilometers of coastline marked by numerous bays, straits, and inlets. Tallinn's Muuga port offers one of Europe's finest warm-water harbor facilities.\n\nEstonia's strategic location has precipitated many wars that were fought on its territory between other rival powers at its expense. In 1944, under Soviet occupation, the Jaanilinn and Petseri regions were annexed to Russian SFSR territory. The legal status of these territories has not been fully settled yet, though neither Estonia or Russia has not any territorial claims.\n\nGeographic coordinates: .\n\nEstonia is a flat country covering . Estonia has a long, shallow coastline () along the Baltic Sea, with 1,520 islands dotting the shore. The two largest islands are Saaremaa (literally, island land), at , and Hiiumaa, at . The two islands are favorite Estonian vacation spots. The country's highest point, Suur Munamägi (Egg Mountain), is in the hilly southeast and reaches above sea level. Estonia is covered by about of forest. Arable land amounts to about . Meadows cover about , and pastureland covers about . There are more than 1,400 natural and artificial lakes in Estonia. The largest of them, Lake Peipus (), forms much of the border between Estonia and Russia. Located in central Estonia, Võrtsjärv is the second-largest lake (). The Narva and Emajõgi are among the most important of the country's many rivers.\n\nA small, recent cluster of meteorite craters, the largest of which is called Kaali are found near Saaremaa, Estonia. It is thought that the impact was witnessed by the Iron Age inhabitants of the area.\n\nEstonia has a temperate climate, with four seasons of near-equal length. Average temperatures range from on the Baltic islands to inland in July, the warmest month, and from on the Baltic islands to inland in February, the coldest month. Precipitation averages per year and is heaviest in late summer.\n\nEstonia's land border with Latvia runs ; the Russian border runs . From 1920 to 1945, Estonia's border with Russia, set by the 1920 Tartu Peace Treaty, extended beyond the Narva River in the northeast and beyond the town of Petseri in the southeast. This territory, amounting to some , was incorporated into Russia by Joseph Stalin at the end of World War II.\n\nOne of the most burdensome legacies of the Soviet era is widespread environmental pollution. The worst offender in this regard was the Soviet army. Across military installations covering more than 800 km² of Estonian territory, the army dumped hundreds of thousands of tons of jet fuel into the ground, improperly disposed of toxic chemicals, and discarded outdated explosives and weapons in coastal and inland waters. In the 1990s, during the army's withdrawal from Estonia, extensive damage was done to discarded buildings and equipment. In October 1993, the Estonian Ministry of Environment issued a preliminary report summing up part of the degradation it had surveyed thus far. The report described the worst damage as having been done to Estonia's topsoil and underground water supply by the systematic dumping of jet fuel at six Soviet army air bases. At the air base near Tapa, site of the worst damage, officials estimated that six square kilometers of land were covered by a layer of fuel; 11 square kilometers of underground water were said to be contaminated. The water in the surrounding area was undrinkable, and was sometimes set fire by locals to provide heat during the winter. With Danish help, Estonian crews began cleaning up the site, although they estimated the likely cost to be as much as 4 million EEK. The Ministry of Environment assigned a monetary cost of more than 10 billion EEK to the damage to the country's topsoil and water supply. However, the ministry was able to allocate only 5 million EEK in 1993 for cleanup operations.\n\nIn a 1992 government report to the United Nations Conference on the Environment and Development, Estonia detailed other major environmental concerns. For instance, for several consecutive years Estonia had led the world in the production of sulfur dioxide per capita. Nearly 75% of Estonia's air pollution was reported to come from two oil shale-based thermal power stations operating near Narva. The mining of oil shale in northeastern Estonia has also left large mounds of limestone tailings and ash dotting the region. Near the town of Sillamäe, site of a former uranium enrichment plant, about 1,200 tons of uranium and about 750 tons of thorium had been dumped into a reservoir on the shore of the Gulf of Finland. This was said to have caused severe health problems among area residents. In the coastal town of Paldiski, the removal of waste left by Soviet army nuclear reactors was also a major concern. The combined cost of environmental cleanup at both towns was put at more than EKR3.5 billion.\n\nNatural hazards: flooding occurs frequently in the spring in certain areas\n\nEnvironment – current issues: air polluted with sulfur dioxide from oil-shale burning power plants in northeast; however, the amount of pollutants emitted to the air have fallen steadily, the emissions of 2000 were 80% less than in 1980; the amount of unpurified wastewater discharged to water bodies in 2000 was 1/20 the level of 1980; in connection with the start-up of new water purification plants, the pollution load of wastewater decreased; Estonia has more than 1,400 natural and man-made lakes, the smaller of which in agricultural areas need to be monitored; coastal seawater is polluted in certain locations.\n\nEnvironment – international agreements:\n\"party to:\" Air Pollution, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands\n\"signed, but not ratified:\" none\n\nArea:\n\"total:\" 45,228 km²\n\"land:\" 42,288 km²\n\"water:\" 2,840 km²\n\"note:\" includes 1,520 islands in the Baltic Sea\n\nLand boundaries:\n\"total:\" 657 km\n\"border countries:\" Latvia 333 km, Russia 324 km\n\nCoastline: 3,794 km\n\nMaritime claims:\n\"territorial sea:\" \n\"exclusive economic zone:\" limits fixed in coordination with neighboring states\n\nElevation extremes:\n\"lowest point:\" Baltic Sea 0 m\n\"highest point:\" Suur Munamägi 317 m\n\nNatural resources: oil shale (kukersite), peat, phosphorite, cambrian blue clay, limestone, sand, dolomite, arable land, forest\n\nLand use:\n\"arable:\" 14.65%\n\"permanent crops:\" 0.14%\n\"other:\" 85.21% (2012)\n\nIrrigated land: 4.58 km\n\nTotal renewable water resources: 12.81 km (2011)\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):\n<br>\"total:\" 1.8 km/yr (3%/97%/0%)\n<br>\"per capita:\" 1,337 m/yr (2009)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6160943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6160943", "title": "Huayco", "text": "Huayco\n\nA huaico (from the Quechua \"wayqu\", meaning \"depth, valley\") is an Andean term that refers to the mudslide and flash flood caused by torrential rains occurring high in the mountains, especially during the weather phenomenon known as \"El Niño\".\n\nNational forests such as the San Matías–San Carlos Protection Forest were created in Peru to protect vegetation, which reduces runoff, and prevent huaicos.\n\nThe indigenous Mapuche residents of \"Lo Barnechea\", in present-day Santiago Province, Chile, were called \"Huaicoches\" in their Mapudungun language: \"Huaico\" (flash flood) and \"che\" (people).\n"}
{"id": "2174304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2174304", "title": "Ibn Jubayr", "text": "Ibn Jubayr\n\nIbn Jubayr (1 September 1145 –29 November 1217; ), also written Ibn Jubair, Ibn Jobair, and Ibn Djubayr, was an Arab geographer, traveller and poet from al-Andalus. His travel chronicle describes the pilgrimage he made to Mecca from 1183 to 1185, in the years preceding the Third Crusade. His chronicle describes Saladin's domains in Egypt and the Levant which he passed through on his way to Mecca. Further, on his return journey he passed through Christian Sicily, which had only been recaptured from the Muslims a century before, and he makes several observations on the hybrid polyglot culture which flourished there.\n\nIbn Jubayr was born in 1145 A.D. in Valencia, Spain, to an Arab family of the Kinanah tribe. He was a descendant of 'Abdal-Salam ibn Jabayr who in 740 A.D. had accompanied an army sent by the Caliph of Damascus to put down a Berber uprising in his Spanish provinces. Ibn Jubayr studied in the town of Xàtiva where his father worked as a civil servant. He later became secretary to the Almohad governor of Granada.\n\nIn the introduction to his \"Rihla\" Ibn Jubayr explains the reason for his travels. As secretary for the ruler of Granada in 1182, he was forced, under threat, to drink seven cups of wine. Seized by remorse, the ruler then filled seven cups of gold dinars which he gave him. To expiate his godless act, although forced upon him, Ibn Jubayr decided to perform the duty of Hajj to Mecca. He left Granada on 3 February 1183 accompanied by a physician from the city.\n\nIbn Jubayr left Granada and crossed over the Strait of Gibraltar to Ceuta, then under Muslim rule. He boarded a Genoese ship on February 24, 1183 and set sail for Alexandria. His sea journey took him past the Balearic Islands and then across to the west coast of Sardinia. Whilst offshore he heard of the fate of 80 Muslim men, women and children who had been abducted from North Africa and were being sold into slavery. Between Sardinia and Sicily the ship ran into a severe storm. He said of the Italians and Muslims on board who had experience of the sea that \"all agreed that they had never in their lives seen such a tempest\". After the storm the ship went on past Sicily, Crete and then turned south and crossed over to the North African coast. He arrived in Alexandria on March 26.\n\nEverywhere that Ibn Jubayr travelled in Egypt he was full of praise for the new Sunni ruler, Saladin. For example, he says of him that: \"There is no congregational or ordinary mosque, no mausoleum built over a grave, nor hospital, nor theological college, where the bounty of the Sultan does not extend to all who seek shelter or live in them.\" He points out that when the Nile does not flood enough, Saladin remits the land tax from the farmers. He also says that \"such is his (Salahuddin's) justice, and the safety he has brought to his high-roads that men in his lands can go about their affairs by night and from its darkness apprehend no awe that should deter them.\" Ibn Jubayr is, on the other hand, very disparaging of the previous Shi'a dynasty of the Fatimids.\n\nOf Cairo, Ibn Jubayr notes, are the colleges and hostels erected for students and pious men of other lands by the Sultan Saladin. In those colleges students find lodging and tutors to teach them the sciences they desire, and also allowances to cover their needs. The care of the sultan also grants them baths, hospitals, and the appointment of doctors who can even come to visit them at their place of stay, and who would be answerable for their cure. One of the Sultan Saladin's other generous acts was that every day two thousand loaves of bread were distributed to the poor. Also impressing Ibn Jubayr in that city was the number of mosques, estimated at between 8 and 12 thousand; often four or five of them in the same street.\n\nUpon arrival at Alexandria Ibn Jubayr was angered by the customs officials who insisted on taking zakat from the pilgrims, regardless of whether they were obliged to pay it or not. In the city he visited the Lighthouse of Alexandria, which at that time was still standing, and he was amazed by its size and splendour.\nOne of the greatest wonders that we saw in this city was the lighthouse which Great and Glorious God had erected by the hands of those who were forced to such labor as 'Indeed in that are signs for those who discern'. Quran 15:75 and as a guide to voyagers, for without it they could not find the true course to Alexandria. It can be seen for more than seventy miles, and is of great antiquity. It is most strongly built in all directions and competes with the skies in height. Description of it falls short, the eyes fail to comprehend it, and words are inadequate, so vast is the spectacle.\nHe was also impressed by the free colleges, hostels for foreign students, baths and hospitals in the city. These were paid for by awqaf and taxes on the city's Jews and Christians. He noted that there were between 8,000 and 12,000 mosques in Alexandria. After a stay of eight days he set off for Cairo.\n\nHe reached Cairo three days later. In the city he visited the cemetery at al-Qarafah, which contained the graves of many important figures in the history of Islam. He noted while in the Cairo of Saladin, the walls of the citadel were being extended by the Mamluks with the object of reinforcing the entire city from any future Crusader siege. Another building work that he saw was the construction of a bridge over the Nile, which would be high enough not to be submerged in the annual flooding of the river. He saw a spacious free hospital which was divided into three sections: one each for men, women and the insane. He saw the pyramids, although he was unaware of who they had been built for, and the Sphinx. He also saw a device that was used for measuring the height of the Nile flood.\n\nIn Sicily, at the very late stages of his travels (Dec 1184-Jan 1185), Ibn Jubayr recounts other experiences. He comments on the activity of the volcanoes:\nAt the close of night a red flame appeared, throwing up tongues into the air. It was the celebrated volcano (Stromboli). We were told that a fiery blast of great violence bursts out from air-holes in the two mountains and makes the fire. Often a great stone is cast up and thrown into the air by the force of the blast and prevented thereby from falling and settling at the bottom. This is one of the most remarkable of stories, and it is true.\n\nAs for the great mountain in the island, known as the Jabal al-Nar [Mountain of Fire], it also presents a singular feature in that some years a fire pours from it in the manner of the `bursting of the dam'. It passes nothing it does not burn until, coming to the sea, it rides out on its surface and then subsides beneath it. Let us praise the Author of all things for His marvelous creations. There is no God but He.\n\nAlso striking Ibn Jubayr is the city of Palermo. He describes it as follows:\nIt is the metropolis of these islands, combining the benefits of wealth and splendour, and having all that you could wish of beauty, real or apparent, and all the needs of subsistence, mature and fresh. It is an ancient and elegant city, magnificent and gracious, and seductive to look upon. Proudly set between its open spaces and plains filled with gardens, with broad roads and avenues, it dazzles the eyes with its perfection. It is a wonderful place, built in the Cordova style, entirely from cut stone known as kadhan [a soft limestone]. A river splits the town, and four springs gush in its suburbs... The King roams through the gardens and courts for amusement and pleasure... The Christian women of this city follow the fashion of Muslim women, are fluent of speech, wrap their cloaks about them, and are veiled.\n\nIbn Jubayr also travelled to Medina, Mecca, Damascus, Mosul, Acre and Baghdad at Basra he saw how Indian timber was carefully used to make Lateen sail ships, returning in 1185 by way of Sicily. His path was not without troubles, including a shipwreck. On both occasions he travelled on Genoese ships.\n\nFrequently quoted is Jubayr's famous description of Muslims prospering under the Christian crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem:\nWe moved from Tibnin - may God destroy it - at daybreak on Monday. Our way lay through continuous farms and ordered settlements, whose inhabitants were all Muslims, living comfortably within the Franks... They surrender half their crops to the Franks at harvest time, and pay as well a poll-tax of one dinar and five qirat for each person. Other than that they are not interfered with, save for a light tax on the fruit of their trees. The houses and all their effects are left to their full possession. All the coastal cities occupied by the Franks are managed in this fashion, their rural districts, the villages and farms, belong to the Muslims. But their hearts have been seduced, for they observe how unlike them in ease and comfort are their brethren in the Muslim regions under their (Muslim) governors. This is one of the misfortunes afflicting the Muslims. The Muslim community bewails the injustice of the landlord of its own faith, and applauds the conduct of its opponent and enemy, the Frankish landlord, and is accustomed to justice from him.\n\nJubayr travelled to the East on two further occasions (1189–1191 and 1217), without leaving any account. He died on the 29 November 1217 in Alexandria during the second of these trips.\n\nIbn Jubayr provides a highly detailed and graphic description of the places he visited during his travels. The book differs from other contemporary accounts in not being a mere collection of toponyms and descriptions of monuments, but contains observation of geographical details as well as cultural, religious and political matters. Particularly interesting are his notes about the declining faith of his fellow Muslims in Palermo after the recent Norman conquest, and about what he perceived as the Muslim-influenced customs of king William II of Sicily (see Arabo-Norman civilization).\n\nHis writing is a foundation of the genre of work called Rihla, or the creative travelogue. This is a mix of personal narrative, description of the areas traveled and personal anecdotes.\n\nIbn Jubayr's travel chronicle served as a model for later authors, some of whom copied from it without attribution. Ibn Juzayy, who wrote the account of Ibn Battuta's travels in around 1355 A.D., copied passages that had been written 170 years earlier by Ibn Jubayr describing Damascus, Mecca, Medina and other places in the Middle East. Passages copied from Ibn Jubayr are also found in the writings of al-Sharishi, al-Abdari and Al-Maqrizi.\n\nA surviving copy of Ibn Jubayr's manuscript is preserved in the collection of the Leiden University Library. The 210 page manuscript was produced in Mecca in 875 A.H. (1470 A.D.) and appears to have been written at high speed: diacritic marks are often missing, words are omitted and there is confusion between certain pairs of letters. The complete Arabic text was first published in 1852 by the orientalist William Wright. An updated edition was published in 1907 by Michael Jan de Goeje. A translation into Italian by Celestino Schiaparelli was published in 1906, a translation into English by Ronald Broadhurst was published in 1952, and a translation into French by Maurice Gaudefroy-Demombynes appeared in three volumes between 1949 and 1956.\n\nJubair is widely identified as Jubair Al-Hakim from the video game series \"Assassin's Creed\", where he preaches in Damascus before being killed by the protagonist, Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19015395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19015395", "title": "Index of Jamaica-related articles", "text": "Index of Jamaica-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of topics related to the nation of Jamaica.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46437140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46437140", "title": "Index of Telangana-related articles", "text": "Index of Telangana-related articles\n\nThis is an index of articles and categories about Telangana state in India.\n108 (emergency telephone number)\n10TV\n14 Reels Entertainment\n1972 Jai Andhra movement\n1990 Hyderabad riots\n2003 AP Tourism Hyderabad Open\n2011 Sabarimala stampede\n2013 Naxal attack in Darbha valley\n2nd South Indian International Movie Awards\n58th Filmfare Awards South\n60th Filmfare Awards South\n\nA R Mallu \nA. G. K. Gokhale \nA. L. Narayan \nA. M. Rajah \nA. Ramana Rao \nA. Ranganadha Rao \nA. S. Rao Nagar \nA.A.N.M & V.V.R.S.R Polytechnic \nA.G Krishnamurthy \nA.P.T.W.R. School \nAada Paduchu \nAadi (Telugu actor) \nAamani \nAarakshan \nAbburi Chayadevi \nAbburu (Abburi) \nAbdul Najeeb Qureshi \nAbdullapur \nAbhira tribe \nAbijeet Duddala \nABN Andhra Jyothi \nAbujmarh \nAchampet (SC) (Assembly constituency) \nAchanta (Assembly constituency) \nAchuta Manasa \nAchyuth \nAddakal \nAddanki (Assembly constituency) \nAdibatla \nAdigoppula \nAdikavi Nannaya University \nAditya Engineering College \nAditya Music \nAdivarapupeta \nAdministrative Staff College of India \nAdoni (Assembly constituency) \nAdoni Arts and science college \nAdraspalle \nAdusumalli \nAgarru \nAgharia \nAhuti Prasad \nAilapuram \nAjay (actor) \nAkkanna Madanna Temple \nAkkapalem \nAkkineni Kutumba Rao \nAkkineni Nageswara Rao \nAkkulapeta \nAkkurthi \nAkshara School \nAkula Rajender \nAkula Sree Ramulu College of Engineering \nAlai Balai \nAlair (Assembly constituency) \nAlakurapadu \nAlampur (SC) (Assembly constituency) \nAlampur Navabrahma Temples \nAlcohol laws of India \nAldas Janaiah \nAleeti Ramaiah Pally \nAlijah Kotla \nAlimineti Madhava Reddy \nAlisagar lift irrigation scheme \nAliya Rama Raya \nAllagadda (Assembly constituency) \nAllawada \nAllu Sirish \nAllurupadu \nAlur (Assembly constituency) \nAmadalavalasa (Assembly constituency) \nAmadapur \nAmanchi Venkata Subrahmanyam \nAmangal \nAmareswari Konamaneni \nAmar Mitra Peddireddy \nAmara Institute of Engineering and Technology \nAmeenpur Dargah \nAmigos Creations \nAmmagari Palle \nAmos Sutton \nAmpapuram \nAmrabad \nAmrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham \nAmudala Palle, Prakasam district \nAnabheri Prabhakar Rao \nAnakapalle (Assembly constituency) \nAnam Ramanarayana Reddy \nAnanda Gotrika \nAnand (Maoist) \nAnand Ranga \nAnand Tummala \nAnantapur Urban (Assembly constituency) \nAnantasagar \nAnantavaram \nAnanthagiri Hills \nAnanthagiri Temple \nAnanthawaram \nAnanthavarappadu \nAnaparthy (Assembly constituency) \nAnasagaram \nAndhra diaspora \nAndhra Jateva Kalashala Ground \nAndhra Ikshvaku \nAndhra Natyam \nAndhra Pragathi Grameena Bank \nAndhra Ratna \nAndhra Shiridi \nAndhra University College of Arts and Commerce \nAndhra University College of Law \nAndhra University College of Pharmaceutical Sciences \nAndhra University College of Science and Technology \nAndhra Vidyalaya College \nAndhra Vishnu \nAndole \nAnepuram \nAnigandlapadu \nAnil Kumar Eravathri \nAniruddha's Bank for the Blind \nAnjamma Agi Reddy Engineering College for Women \nAnjanapuaram, Konijerla \nAnkireddy Gudem \nAnkireddy Pally \nAnkitham \nAnnampalle \nAnnampatla \nAnnaram \nAnnareddygudem \nAnna Sarah Kugler \nAnnavaram guntur \nAnnavaram village \nAnne Anjaiah \nAnneparthy \nAnniyan \nAnnvarapu lanka \nAnoop Rubens \nAnumula \nAnupalem \nAnurag Engineering College \nApluda \nAppajipeta \nAppapuram \nApparao Palem \nApril 2010 Maoist attack in Dantewada \nAP Bhavan\nAP Model School \nAPSET \nArab (Gujarat) \nAragonda \nAraku (Lok Sabha constituency) \nAraku Valley (ST) (Assembly constituency) \nArasada, India \nAravaan \nAravidu Dynasty \nAravinda High School \nArchitecture of Karnataka \nArgiope catenulata \nArgul, Nizamabad \nArgyrogramma signata \nArige Ramaswamy \nArignar Anna Memorial Cancer Hospital & Research Institute \nArikathota \nArjalabai \nArjunudupalam \nArka Media Works \nArogyavaram \nArthur Cotton \nArthur Luard \nAruna Kumari Galla \nAsher Noria \nAshish Reddy \nAshurkhana Sayyid Jamshed Ali Khan \nAshwani Kumar (IPS) \nAssaka \nAswapuram \nAswaraopeta \nAswaraopeta (ST)(Assembly constituency) \nAtapaka \nAtapaka Bird Sanctuary \nAtevelle \nAtma Jayaram \nAtmakur (Assembly constituency) \nAtmakur, Medak \nAtmakur, Nalgonda \nAurangabad, Medak \nAurobindo Pharma \nAushapur \nAvan Ivan \nAvanigadda (Assembly constituency) \nAvasarala Ramakrishna Rao \nAvudari Venkateswarlu \nAware Global Hospital \nAzam Ghauri \nAziz (artist) \nAziz Qureshi\n\nB. G. Prasada Rao \nB. Gopal \nB. Gopalam \nB. L. S. Prakasa Rao \nB. Nagi Reddy \nB. N. Sarma \nB. Narsing Rao \nB. Radhabai Ananda Rao \nB. Satya Narayan Reddy \nB. Shyam Sunder \nB.V. Nandini Reddy \nB.V. Ramana Reddy \nBabli project \nBabu Mohan \nBabu Rao Mediyam \nBachannapet \nBacharam \nBachupally \nBackground of the Telangana movement \nBackward Castes United Front \nBadami Chalukya architecture \nBadampudi \nBadangpet \nBadevaripalem \nBadichowdi \nBadvel \nBadvel (SC)(Assembly constituency) \nBagata people \nBagh Lingampally \nBaghban \nBahadur pentho \nBahadurpally \nBahmani sultanate \nBairamalguda \nBakaram Jagir \nBakri Chepyal \nBalabadrapuram \nBalabhadrapuram \nBalachandra Shastri \nBalanagar, Mahbubnagar \nBalantrapu Rajanikanta Rao \nBalapur, Hyderabad \nBalaraju \nBalashowry Vallabhaneni \nBalemla \nBaleru \nBalija \nBalijipeta \nBalimela Reservoir \nBalipratipada \nBalivada Kantha Rao \nBalive \nBalkampet \nBalkampet Yellamma temple \nBalkonda (Assembly constituency) \nBallasulamma temple \nBallikurava \nBallipadu \nBalmiki Prasad Singh \nBalmoor \nBalram Naik \nBalumama \nBalushahi \nBakkan Narasimhulu \nBanaganapalle (Assembly constituency) \nBanana leaf \nBanashankari Amma Temple \nBanda Kanakalingeshwara Rao \nBandalemoor \nBandamadharam \nBandar \nBandaru Acchamamba \nBandaru Dattatreya \nBandarulanka \nBandarupalle \nBandel Church \nBandi Atmakur \nBandi Rajan Babu \nBandi Sailu \nBandi Saroj Kumar \nBandivandluru \nBanjara Hills \nBandlaguda Jagir \nBandlamotu \nBanganapalle \nBangaru Laxman \nBangaru Usha Rani \nBanjara \nBanjara Hills \nBanjara Lake \nBanjari language \nBank Street, Hyderabad \nBankura Sammilani Medical College \nBanswada (Assembly constituency) \nBant Singh \nBantumilli \nBantwaram \nBapatla \nBapatla (Assembly constituency) \nBapatla (Lok Sabha constituency) \nBapatla Engineering College \nBaptist Theological Seminary \nBapu (artist) \nBapulapadu \nBara Shaheed Dargah \nBarasala \nBarkathpally \nBarkatpura \nBarli, Vizianagaram \nBarrister Parvateesam \nBaru Sahib \nBasangi \nBasar, Telangana \nBasavakalyan \nBasheer Bagh Palace \nBasheerabad \nBasheerbagh \nBasilica of Our Lady of Snow, Pallippuram \nBasilica of Our Lady of the Assumption, Secunderabad \nBasireddypalli \nBasireddypally \nBastepur \nBatasingaram \nBathkepally \nBathukamma \nBattapoor \nBattili \nBattle of Bobbili \nBattle of Padmanabham \nBattle of Talikota \nBattle of Vijayawada \nBattugudem \nBava \nBavikonda \nBay of Bengal \nBayalu Seeme \nBayya Suryanarayana Murthy \nBayyaram \nBayyaram Mines \nBeechupally \nBeerakuppam \nBegan Phali \nBegum Bazaar \nBegumpet \nBegumpet Airport \nBegumpet railway station \nBejjanki \nBelgaum Fort \nBella Vista, Hyderabad \nBellamkonda \nBellampalli \nBellary \nBelum Caves \nBendamurlanka \nBendapudi Venkata Satyanarayana \nBenki Birugali \nBesant C. Raj \nBesant Theosophical College \nBetha Sudhakar \nBethapudi \nBethel Bible College, Guntur \nBezwada Wilson \nBhadrachalam \nBhadrakali \nBhadriraju Krishnamurti \nBhagyalakshmi temple \nBhainsa \nBhale Ramudu \nBhanumathi Ramakrishna \nBhanupriya \nBharago \nBharat Biotech International \nBharat Dynamics \nBharatiya Vidya Bhavan's Sri Venkateswara Vidyalaya \nBharat Heavy Electricals \nBharat Nagar \nBharat Nagar railway station \nBharat Sevashram Sangha \nBharat Vir Wanchoo \nBharattherium \nBhargavi Rao \nBhaskar (director) \nBhaskar Nagar \nBhatlapenumarru \nBhatt Mathuranath Shastri \nBhattiprolu \nBhattiprolu alphabet \nBhavanam Venkatarami Reddy \nBhavan's Sri RamaKrishna Vidyalaya \nBhavans Vivekananda College \nBhavaraju Sarveswara Rao \nBhavsar \nBheemadevarpalle \nBheemana Amavasya \nBheemunipatnam \nBHEL Township, Hyderabad \nBhima River \nBhimadole \nBhimavaram \nBhimavaram (Assembly constituency) \nBhimili (Assembly constituency) \nBhimreddy Narasimha Reddy \nBhoga Srinivasa \nBhogaraju Pattabhi Sitaramayya \nBhogireddypalli \nBhoi \nBhoj Reddy Engineering College for Women \nBhongirpalle \nBhoodan Pochampally \nBhoothpur \nBhopalpatnam \nBhrngadutam \nBhrugubanda \nBhujabalapatnam \nBhuma Nagi Reddy \nBhuma Shobha Nagireddy \nBhupalpalle \nBhupalpalle (Assembly constituency) \nBhushanagulla \nBhuvanagiri, Telangana \nBiccavolu \nBidriware \nBijinapalle \nBiligiriranga Hills \nBilla II \nBindu Madhavi \nBiological E. Limited \nBiraja Temple \nBirkur \nBirla Institute of Technology and Science \nBirla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani – Hyderabad \nBirla Science Museum \nBitiwada \nBitragunta \nBitti Mohanty \nBJR Nagar \nBK Palem \nBlack turmeric \nBoath (Assembly constituency) \nBobbarlanka \nBobbellapadu \nBobbilgam \nBobbili \nBobbili (Assembly constituency) \nBobbili (Lok Sabha constituency) \nBodakonda \nBodamalai Betta \nBoddepalli Rajagopala Rao \nBodhan \nBodrai Thanda \nBoduppal \nBogada Bhupathipur \nBogaram \nBoggudupalli \nBoggulkunta \nBoinpalle \nBojja Bixamaiah \nBojjannakonda \nBolarum \nBolarum Bazar railway station \nBolarum railway station \nBollapalle \nBollimunta Sivaramakrishna \nBombay rava \nBommala Ramaram \nBommasamudram \nBommuluru \nBomraspet \nBomraspeta \nBonakal \nBonangi \nBonda \nBonda people \nBondapalli \nBongloor \nBonthapally \nBoondi \nBopparam, Nalgonda district \nBor Wildlife Sanctuary \nBorabanda \nBorabanda railway station \nBorra Caves \nBothalapalem\nBotikarlapadu \nBotla Vanaparthy \nBotsa Jhansi Lakshmi \nBotsa Satyanarayana \nBoudhanagar \nBouloussou Soubramanion Sastroulou \nBowenpally \nBowrampet \nBoyakonda Gangamma \nBoyapati Srinu \nBoyi Bhimanna \nBrahacharanam \nBrahma \nBrahmamgarimatham \nBrahman Vaadi \nBrahmanagudem \nBrahmanandam \nBrahmanapally \nBrahmanpally \nBrahmarishi Hussain Sha \nBrahmi script \nBramhani Industries \nBranches of Rashtrakuta Dynasty \nBride price \nBrihatpalayana \nBritish Raj \nBrundavanapuram \nBuckingham Canal \nBudabukkala \nBudarasingi \nBuddam \nBuddam, India \nBuddapalli \nBuddaram \nBuddha \nBuddha Statue of Hyderabad \nBuddhism \nBudharaopet \nBudhivanta \nBudugu \nBukkapatnam \nBukkarayasamudram \nBurgampadu \nBurgula Ramakrishna Rao \nBurgupalli \nBurra katha \nBurra Narsaiah \nBurripalem \nBusayavalasa \nButtayagudem \nByadagi chilli \nByrakur \nByreddy Rajasekhar Reddy \nByrraju Ramalinga Raju\n\nC. Lakshmi Rajyam\nC. M. Prasad\nC. Narayanareddy\nC. Ramachandra Rao\nC. Rangarajan\nC. S. Rao (writer)\nC.H. Hanumantha Rao\nC. V. Subbarao\nCaitika\nCameraman Gangatho Rambabu\nCaste system among Indian Christians\nCavalry Barracks railway station\nCBM Bethel Hospital\nCentral Board of Secondary Education\nCentral Organising Committee, Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Party Unity\nCentral University, India\nCentre for Cellular and Molecular Biology\nCentre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics\nCentre of Indian Trade Unions\nCh. Mohan Rao\nChada, Nalgonda\nChadalada\nChadalavada Umesh Chandra\nChaderghat\nChagalamarri\nChagalnadu Lift Irrigation Scheme\nChaganam Rajupalem\nChaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology\nChaitra\nChakarayapet\nChakirala\nChakrampally\nChakravakam (TV serial)\nChakrayapalem\nChakri (music director)\nChalampalli\nChalapathi Rao\nChalappalem\nChalivendrapalem\nChalla Kondaiah\nChallachintalapudi\nChallagariga\nChallapalli\nChallapeta\nChalloor\nChalukya dynasty\nChamallamudi\nChamapur\nChamarru\nChampapet\nChanchalguda\nChanchalguda Central Jail\nChanda Nagar\nChanda Nagar railway station\nChandampally\nChandampet\nChandanapally, Telangana\nChandarlapadu\nChandarlapadu\nChandarllapadu Mandal\nChandenvalle\nChandepally\nChandole\nChandolu\nChandra Mohan (Telugu actor)\nChandra Pulla Reddy\nChandra Rajeswara Rao\nChandra Siddhartha\nChandrabose (lyricist)\nChandragiri\nChandragiri (Assembly constituency)\nChandragudem\nChandramam Palli\nChandramouleshwara Temple\nChandramukhi\nChandrasekhar Sankurathri\nChandrasekharapuram\nChandravadana and Mohiyar\nChandrayaan-1\nChandrayan Gutta\nChandrugonda\nChandrupatla, Khammam\nChandupatla\nChandur, Telangana\nChandurthi\nChanubanda\nChanugondla\nChanupally\nChanvelly\nChapadu\nChappidolla Gudem\nCharakonda\nCharakpally\nCharlagudipadu\nCharles Phillip Brown\nCharminar\nCharminar (Assembly constituency)\nChataparru\nChatrai\nChavali Vyaghreswarudu\nChavupadu\nChavva\nChaya Someswara Swamy temple\nChebrolu\nCheeded\nCheemaldari\nCheepurupalli\nCheepurupalli (Assembly constituency)\nCheeriyal\nCheetah reintroduction in India\nChegireddy Ghanpur\nChegondi Venkata Harirama Jogaiah\nChegunta\nChejarla\nChekurapadu\nChellamalla Suguna Kumari\nChellapilla Satyam\nChelluru\nChembakur\nChemudu\nChemudulanka\nChenchu language\nChenchu people\nChengalpattu Medical College\nChengicherla\nChengicherla Abattoir\nChennamaneni Vidyasagar Rao\nChennaraopet\nChennareddy Guda\nChennavarappadu\nChennekothapalle\nChennupati Vidya\nChennur (Assembly constituency)\nChennur, Kadapa\nCheriyal\nCheriyal scroll painting\nCherla\nCherlapally\nCherlapally Central Jail\nCherlapatelguda\nCherukumilli\nCherukupalle\nCherukuri Rajkumar\nCheruvu Madhavaram\nChevella\nChevella (Lok Sabha constituency)\nChevitikallu\nCheyyeru\nCheyyeru River\nChhipa\nChicacole\nChief Minister (India)\nChief Ministership of N. T. Rama Rao\nChiguralpally\nChigurumamidi\nChikkadpally\nChikkadpally, Nizamabad\nChikkolee\nChilakalapudi Seeta Rama Anjaneyulu\nChilakaluripet\nChilakaluripet (Assembly constituency)\nChilakapadu\nChilamathur\nChilamkur\nChilkalguda\nChilkur Balaji Temple\nChilkur, Nalgonda district\nChimakurthi\nChina Brahmadevam\nChina Kallepalle\nChina Mallavaram\nChina Ogirala\nChinaamiram\nChinaganjam\nChinapandraka\nChinateenarla\nChinavenkannapalem\nChindu (organization)\nChinna (Telugu actor)\nChinna Agiripalli\nChinna Avutapalli\nChinna Bandaravirala\nChinna Chintakunta\nChinna Golkonda\nChinna Gollapally\nChinna Jeeyar Swamy\nChinna Kaparthy\nChinna Kodur\nChinna Kondur\nChinna Mangalaram\nChinnaiahgaripalli\nChinnamandem\nChinnapuram\nChinna Rajulagumada\nChinnaravula Pally\nChinnaravuru railway station\nChinnoor\nChinta Mohan\nChintakani\nChintakayala Ayyanna Patrudu\nChintalagraharam\nChintalakunta\nChintalapadu, Tiruvuru\nChintalapadu, Chandarlapadu\nChintalapalem\nChintalapalle\nChintalapudi\nChintalapudi (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nChintapalli Ramana\nChintapally, Nalgonda\nChintapalle, Visakhapatnam\nChintapalli, Vizianagaram\nChintaparthi\nChintapatla\nChintayapalem\nChinthabathini\nChinthagumpalli\nChinthakommadinne\nChinthamakulapalli\nChintoor\nChintulla\nChippagiri\nChirala\nChirala (Assembly constituency)\nChiranjeevi\nChirumamilla\nChirumarri\nChirumarthi Lingaiah\nChirunomula\nChiruvolu\nChitrapu Narayana Rao\nChitravathi River\nChittapur\nChitti annavaram\nChitti Babu (musician)\nChittoor (Lok Sabha constituency)\nChittoor (Vidan Sabha constituency)\nChittoor district\nChittoor Subramaniam Pillai\nChittoor\nChittor V. Nagaiah\nChitvel\nChityala Ailamma\nChivvemla\nChodagam Ammanna Raja\nChodavaram (Assembly constituency)\nChodavaram (East)\nChodavaram (West)\nChodavaram, East Godavari\nChodavaram, Krishna\nChodavaram, Prakasam\nChodavaram, Visakhapatnam\nChodavaram, Vijayawada\nChola dynasty\nChola Empire\nChola Navy\nChollangi\nChollangi Peta, East Godavari\nChollangipeta, Vizianagaram\nChoppadandi\nChoppadandi (SC) (Assembly constituency)\nChoutuppal\nChowderguda\nChowlapally Pratap Reddy\nChowmahalla Palace\nChowtapalli\nChristian Cemetery, Narayanguda\nChristian Mission Service\nChristoph von Fürer-Haimendorf\nChukka Ramaiah\nChundrigar\nChundur Massacre\nChurch of South India\nChutney\nCinema of Telangana\nCinema of South India\nCineMAA Awards\nCircar Express\nCity College Hyderabad\nCity Museum, Hyderabad\nCoastal Andhra\nCockfight\nCollege of Medicine & JNM Hospital\nCollege of Nursing, Hyderabad\nCommelina maculata\nCommunist Party of India (Maoist)\nCommunist Party of India (Marxist)\nCommunist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist)\nCommunist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) (Kanu Sanyal)\nCommunist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Janashakti\nCommunist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation\nCommunist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Naxalbari\nCommunist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) New Democracy\nCommunist Party of India\nComp-u-Learn Tech India Ltd\nConvention of Baptist Churches of Northern Circars\nCoringa Wildlife Sanctuary\nCoromandel Express\nCoromandel International\nCorruption in India\nCotton\nCousin marriage\nCriminal Investigation Department\nCuddapah Airport\nCulture of Telangana\nCurd rice\nCVR College of Engineering\nCyclone Laila\nCyclone Phyan\nCyclone Thane\n\nD. K. Audikesavulu\nD. M. Prakasam\nD. Madhusudhana Rao \nD. Ramanaidu\nD. Srinivas (instrumentalist)\nD. Srinivas (politician)\nD.Hirehal\nDaasaradhi Krishnamacharyulu\nDabestan-e Mazaheb\nDabirpura\nDabirpura railway station\nDaggavolu\nDaggubati Purandeswari\nDaggubati Venkatesh\nDaggubati Venkateswara Rao\nDalit\nDalit Bahujan Shramik Union\nDalit Buddhist movement\nDamegunta\nDamodaram Sanjivayya\nDandakaranya\nDanthavarapukota\nDarul Huda Islamic University\nDarushifa\nDarya-ye Noor\nDasari Gopi Krishna\nDasari Narayana Rao\nDasari Yethiraja Sampath Kumar\nDasari Yoganand\nDasavathaaram\nDasi Prabhu Kiran\nDatla\nDattatreya\nDAV Safilguda\nDayanandnagar railway station\nDD Saptagiri\nDeccan Chargers\nDeccan Charters\nDeccan College of Engineering and Technology\nDeccan Development Society\nDeccan Park (building)\nDeccan TV\nDeccan Plateau\nDeccan School of Hospital Management\nDeccan thorn scrub forests\nDecline of Buddhism in India\nDefence Metallurgical Research Laboratory\nDenduluru\nDesamuduru\nDeshaipet\nDeshastha Brahmin\nDeshmukh\nDeva Katta\nDevadasi\nDevadula lift irrigation scheme\nDevanakonda\nDevanga\nDevanga Purana\nDevapur, Kasipet\nDevarakonda\nDevarakonda Balagangadhara Tilak\nDevarakonda Vittal Rao\nDevarakota\nDevarapalem\nDevarapalle, West Godavari\nDevaruppula\nDevi Ahilyabai Holkar Airport\nDevi Sri Prasad\nDevulapalli Krishnasastri\nDharamsagar\nDharanikota\nDharavath Ravinder Naik\nDharma Bhiksham\nDharma samsthapana\nDharmapuram\nDharmapuri, Karimnagar\nDharmasagar\nDharmavaram, Anantapur\nDharmavaram, Vizianagaram\nDharmavaram, West Godavari\nDharmavarapu Subramanyam\nDhavaleswaram\nDheena\nDhenuva Konda\nDhobi\nDhoolpet\nDhor\nDhoti\nDhulikatta\nDhulipala Seetharama Sastry\nDia Mirza\nDibbapalem\nDindi Reservoir\nDiocese of Medak of the Church of South India\nDirusumarru\nDisaster Management Act, 2005\nDivya Desams\nDiwali\nDodda Balakoti Reddy\nDokiparru\nDomah\nDomalguda\nDomba\nDonakonda\nDonakonda Airport\nDonoor\nDontikurru\nDornipadu\nDosa \nDosapadu\nDowleswaram Barrage\nDr. Reddy's Laboratories\nDravida Nadu\nDravidian people'\nDravidian architecture\nDravidian peoples\nDravidian languages\nDravidian University\nDreams Choked\nDresden Green Diamond\nDronamraju Krishna Rao\nDronavalli Harika\nDuddeda\nDuduma Waterfalls\nDuggirala Gopalakrishnayya\nDuggondi\nDupadu\nDummugudem\nDummugudem Lift Irrigation Scheme\nDuranta\nDurga Puja\nDurgabai Deshmukh\nDusharla Satyanarayana\nDuvvoori Ramireddy\nDuvvur\nDuvvuri Subbarao\nDwarakapet\nDwivedula Visalakshi\n\nE. S. L. Narasimhan\nE. V. V. Satyanarayana\nEast Deccan dry evergreen forests\nEast India\nEastern Chalukyas\nEastern Ganga dynasty\nEastern Ghats\nEastern Highlands moist deciduous forests\nE-challan\nEconomy of Telangana\nEconomy of Hyderabad, India\nEconomy of South India\nEdi Bazar\nEdlalanka\nEdlapadu\nEdlapalli\nEdicts of Ashoka\nEducation in Telangana\nEducation in Hyderabad, India\nEdulabad\nEdulji Aibara\nEdumudi\nEenadu\nEFLU Hyderabad heritage well\nEidgah, Madannapet\nEijaz Khan\nEkal Vidyalaya\nEkapada\nEkkirala Bharadwaja\nEklaskhanpet\nElakolanu\nElaprolu\nElections in Telangana\nEletipadu\nElico\nEligedu\nEliminedu\nElizabeth Cotton, Lady Hope\nElkathurthy\nEllagiri\nEllambhavi\nEllanthakunta\nElumur\nElurivari palem\nEluru\nEluru (Assembly constituency)\nEluru (Lok Sabha constituency)\nEluru railway station\nElurupadu\nEmani Sambayya\nEmani Sankara Sastry\nEnabavi\nEngineering Agricultural and Medical Common Entrance Test\nEngineering education\nEnkoor\nEnthiran\nEnuga Sreenivasulu Reddy\nEpurupalem\nErajpally\nEri silk\nErnapadu\nErra Cinema\nErragadda\nErramadu\nErramala\nErrepalli\nErrum Manzil\nEsagu\nEshwaridevi matham\nEtcherla (Assembly constituency)\nEthamukkala\nEthnic groups of Tamil Nadu\nEtlaerravaly\nEttayapuram estate\nEturnagaram\nEturnagaram Wildlife Sanctuary\nEturu\nEutropis\nExhibition Ground, Eluru\n\nFalaknuma Express\nFasting\nFederation of Indian Rationalist Associations\nFernandez Hospital\nFerozguda, Hyderabad\nFerro Alloys Corporation\nFilm Nagar\nFilmfare Awards South\nFlaiz Adventist College\nFloral emblem\nFormiscurra\nFree Software Movement of India\n\nG Pulla Reddy College of Engineering & Technology\nG. Bikshapathy\nG. Janardhana Reddy\nG. Kishan Reddy\nG. Konduru\nG. M. C. Balayogi\nG. M. C. Balayogi Athletic Stadium\nG. Neelakanta Reddy\nG. Nizamuddin\nG. Prasad Rao\nG. Pulla Reddy\nG. Ragampeta\nG. Ram Reddy\nG. Ramanujulu Naidu\nG. Samuel\nG. Sanjeeva Reddy\nG. T. Abraham\nG. V. Harsha Kumar\nG. V. Prasad\nG. Venkat Swamy\nG. Venkatasubbaiah\nG.Kothapalli\nGadabas\nGaddamallaiahguda\nGaddampally\nGaddar\nGadde Rajendra Prasad\nGadde Ramamohan\nGaddi Annaram\nGaddiannaram\nGadeguduru\nGadigarevula\nGadikota Srikanth Reddy\nGadilanka\nGadivemula\nGadsingapur\nGadwal\nGadwal (Assembly constituency)\nGagangiri Maharaj\nGagilapur\nGagillapur\nGajam Anjaiah\nGajapathinagaram\nGajapathinagaram (Assembly constituency)\nGajapati Kingdom\nGajara Raja Medical College\nGajulamandyam\nGajuwaka\nGajuwaka (Assembly constituency)\nGajwel\nGajwel (Assembly constituency)\nGaleru Nagari Sujala Sravanthi Project\nGali Muddu Krishnama Naidu\nGaligudem\nGaliveedu\nGallela Prasad\nGam Malludora\nGamalla\nGambhiraopet\nGamgam Palli\nGampa Govardhan\nGampalagudem\nGamyam\nGanagapura\nGanapati (Telugu novel)\nGanapavaram\nGanapavaram, Guntur\nGanapavaram, Prakasam\nGandeed\nGandepalle\nGandhi Bhavan, Hyderabad\nGandhi Medical College\nGandicheruvu\nGandikota\nGandikovvur\nGandipalem\nGandlapenta\nGanesh Chaturthi\nGanesha\nGanesuni Vari Palem\nGangada\nGangadhara Nellore (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nGangammagudi\nGangamma Jatara\nGangaraju Gunnam\nGangaram\nGangavaram Port\nGangenen Venkateswara Rao\nGangipally\nGanguru\nGanikapudi\nGanivada\nGanjikunta\nGannaram\nGannavaram\nGannavaram (Assembly constituency)\nGannavaram (SC) (Assembly constituency)\nGanneruvaram\nGanti Pedapudi\nGanugabanda\nGanugupahad\nGarapaty Satyanarayana\nGarbham\nGargeyapuram\nGaridepally\nGarikapati Narahari Sastry\nGarikapati Narasimha Rao\nGarikapati Varalakshmi Ratha Saptami\nGarimella Balakrishna Prasad\nGarla\nGarladinne\nGarlamadugu\nGarshakurthy\nGaruga\nGattubhoothkur\nGavvalu\nGayatri Vidya Parishad College of Engineering\nGBR College\nGeesugonda\nGeeta Madhuri\nGeetha Arts\nGeethanjali College of Engineering and Technology\nGemini (2002 Telugu film)\nGentlemen's agreement of Andhra Pradesh (1956)\nGeography of South India\nGeorge Reddy\nGeorgepeta\nGhanpur (Mulug)\nGhanpur (Station)\nGhanpur (Station) (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nGhanpur, Mahbubnagar district\nGhansmiyaguda\nGhantasala (singer) \nGhantasala, India\nGhati Subramanya\nGhatkesar\nGhatkeser\nGhatpalle\nGhattu\nGhazal Srinivas\nGhotul\nGiddalur (Assembly constituency)\nGidijala\nGinger pickle\nGireesh Kumar Sanghi\nGiri Babu\nGirmapur\nGlobal Hospitals Group\nGlobal Wisdom International School \nGmelina\nGnana Saraswati Temple, Basar\nGodavari Arch Bridge\nGodavari Express\nGodavari Loya Boggugani Karmika Sangham\nGodavari River Basin Irrigation Projects\nGodavari River\nGodavari Valley Coalfield\nGodavari Water Disputes Tribunal\nGodavarikhani\nGodavari-Krishna mangroves\nGodavarisaurus\nGodavarthi Sri Ramulu\nGodumakunta\nGogulampadu\nGokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology\nGokarnamatam\nGokavaram\nGokula Krishna College of Engineering\nGolconda (painting)\nGolconda Express\nGolden High School, Nalgonda\nGolkonda\nGolla (caste)\nGollabhama sari\nGollagudem\nGollapalem\nGollapalli, Krishna\nGollaprolu\nGollapudi Maruti Rao\nGollur\nGolnaka\nGolu\nGoluguvalasa\nGona Budda Reddy\nGondi language\nGondi people\nGondwana, India\nGoneda\nGonegandla\nGongivaripalli\nGongura\nGonuguntla Venkata Seeta Rama Anjaneyulu\nGoodmorning Grammar High School\nGooty\nGopalapuram (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nGopalapuram, West Godavari\nGopalpeta\nGopavaram\nGopimohan\nGoppili\nGoraganamudi\nGorentla, Nalgonda district\nGorantla Venkanna\nGoravara Kunitha\nGorenkalapally\nGoreti Venkanna\nGorinta\nGorum language\nGosaveedu\nGoshala\nGoshamahal\nGoshamahal (Assembly constituency)\nGospadu\nGosthani River\nGottipati Brahmaiah\nGoud\nGourayaPalli\nGouthami\nGouthu Latchanna\nGovada Dyvasirvadam\nGovernment Arts College, Rajahmundry\nGovernment Degree Colleges in India\nGovernment Dental Hospital and College, Chennai\nGovernment Intermediate College\nGovernment Medical College, Anantapur\nGovernment Medical College, Nizamabad\nGovernment Nizamia General Hospital\nGovernment Nizamia Tibbi College\nGovernment of Telangana\nGovinda Rajula Gutta\nGovindapoor\nGovindaraopet\nGovindpalle\nGowravaram\nGowrelli\nGowri Habba\nGowtami Grandhalayam\nGowtham Model School\nGrandhi Mallikarjuna Rao\nGrandhi Srinivas\nGrandhi Venkata Reddy Naidu\nGrangea\nGreater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation\nGreenlands Guest House\nGreyhounds (police)\nGudapalli\nGudarevu Palli\nGudavalli\nGudimalkapur\nGudimallam\nGudivada\nGudivada (Assembly constituency)\nGudivada (Peddapuram)\nGudivada Engineering College\nGudiwada Dibba, Vizianagaram\nGudlavalleru\nGudlavalleti Chalapati Rao\nGudlur\nGudluru\nGuduguntlapalem\nGudur\nGudur (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nGudur railway station\nGudur, Kurnool\nGudur, Nalgonda\nGuduru, Krishna district\nGuduru Venkatachalam\nGujia\nGujjula Ravindra Reddy\nGulladurthy\nGumlapur\nGummadi Venkateswara Rao\nGummadidala\nGummagatta\nGummileru\nGummiryal\nGundala, Khammam\nGundala, Nalgonda\nGundalapadu\nGundlabavi\nGundlakamma Reservoir Project\nGundlakamma River\nGundlapally\nGundlapochampalli\nGundoor\nGundrampally\nGundugolanu\nGunnampalli\nGuntakal\nGuntakal (Assembly constituency)\nGuntupalem\nGuntupalli\nGuntur\nGuntur (Lok Sabha constituency)\nGuntur chilli\nGuntur district\nGuntur East (Assembly constituency)\nGuntur Engineering College\nGuntur Institute of Medical Sciences\nGuntur Junction railway station\nGuntur-Macherla section\nGuntur Railway Division\nGuntur-Repalle section\nGuntur Sannam\nGuntur West (Assembly constituency)\nGunturu Seshendra Sarma\nGurajala (Assembly constituency)\nGurazada\nGurazada Apparao\nGurindagunta\nGurla Thammirajupeta\nGurraladandi\nGurram Jashuva\nGurramguda\nGurrampode\nGurukula Vidya Peeth\nGurusai Datt\nGuruvannapeta\nGutha Ramineedu\nGutha Sukender Reddy\nGutka\nGuyana \nGVK (conglomerate)\nGymnosporia\n\nH. M. Reddy\nH-1B visa \nHabsiguda\nHafeezpet\nHafeezpet railway station\nHalaharvi\nHamasaladeevi\nHamidullanagar\nHajipalle\nHamsalekha\nHandri-Neeva\nHanuma Vihari\nHanuman Junction\nHanumanthunigudem\nHanumanthunipadu\nHanwada\nHappy Days (2007 film)\nHaranath (actor)\nHarikatha\nHaripalem\nHaripirala\nHaripuram\nHarish Shankar\nHarishankar Brahma\nHarkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami\nHarshaguda\nHasanparthy\nHashim Amir Ali\nHasmathpet\nHatkar\nHavaligi\nHayat Bakshi Mosque\nHayathabad\nHayathnagar\nHazaris\nKhwaja Habib Ali Shah\nHebbatam\nHEH Nizam and Alladin Technical Institute\nHema (actress)\nHeritage Foods\nHill Fort Palace\nHill Reddis\nHimayathnagar, Moinabad mandal\nHimayatnagar, Telangana\nHimayat Sagar\nHindu calendar\nHindu College (Guntur)\nHindu temple\nHindupur\nHindupur (Assembly constituency)\nHindupur (Lok Sabha constituency)\nHindutva\nHirakud Express\nHistory of Telangana\nHistory of Ayyavazhi\nHistory of Bellary\nHistory of Buddhism\nHistory of Chennai\nHistory of Hinduism\nHistory of Hyderabad\nHistory of Hyderabad, India\nHistory of the Bahmani Sultanate\nHITEC City\nHitech City railway station\nHitech College of Engineering and Technology\nHi-Tech Medical College & Hospital\nHMTV\nHolagunda\nHoli\nHope Diamond\nHorsley Hills\nHowrah-Chennai main line\nHuman chain\nHuman sacrifice\nHuppuguda railway station\nHusnabad\nHusnabad (Assembly constituency)\nHussain Sagar\nHussain Sagar Thermal Power Station\nHussainsagar Express\nHusunabad\nHutti Gold Mines Limited\nHuzurabad\nHuzurabad (Assembly constituency)\nHuzurnagar\nHuzurnagar (Assembly constituency)\nHyder Ali\nHyderabad (Assembly constituency)\nHyderabad (Lok Sabha constituency)\nHyderabad bicycling club\nHyderabad Brothers \nHyderabad city lakes\nHyderabad City Police\nHyderabad Cricket Association\nHyderabad cricket team\nHyderabad Deccan railway station\nHyderabad district, India\nHyderabad Gems SEZ\nHyderabad House (restaurant)\nHyderabad Kalibari\nHyderabad Public School\nHyderabad Public School, Kadapa\nHyderabad State (1948–56)\nHyderabad State\nHyderabad Sultans\nHyderabad Urban Development Authority\nHyderabad, India\nHyderabad-Godavari Valley Railways\nHyderabadi biriyani\nHyderabadi cuisine\nHyderabadi Muslims\nHyderabadi Pahalwan\nHyderabadi Urdu\nHyderguda\nHydershakote\n\nI.V.Chalapati Rao\nIbrahimpally\nIbrahimpatnam (Assembly constituency)\nIbrahimpatnam, Krishna\nIcchampally Project\nIchchapuram\nIchchapuram (Assembly constituency)\nIDA Bollaram\nIdeal College of Arts and Sciences\nIdli\nIdris Hasan Latif\nIeeja\nIleana D'Cruz\nIluvar\nImproved Samba Mahsuri\nIndian classical dance\nIndian general election in Madras, 1951\nIndian Institute of Information Technology, Sri City\nIndian Institute of Technology Hyderabad\nIndian Medical Association (Srikakulam)\nIndian National Congress\nIndian Pentecostal Church of God\nIndian Railways\nIndira Gandhi Zoological Park\nIndrasena Reddy\nIndravati River\nInjapur\nInkollu\nINS Rajali\nInstitute of Management Technology, Hyderabad\nInterbasin transfer\nInternational Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics\nInternational Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad\nInterstate Migrant Workmen Act 1979\nInterstate River Water Disputes Act\nInupamula\nIragavaram\nIravan\nIsmailkhanguda\nIsukapalli\nIthavaram\nItikial\nItikyal\nItikyala\nItukulapahad\nITUpSAT1\nIyyanki Venkata Ramanayya\nIzzat Nagar\n\nJ. D. Chakravarthy\nJ. Geeta Reddy\nJ. N. Reddy\nJ. Thimmapuram\nJ.B. Institute of Engineering and Technology\nJackie (2010 film)\nJadcherla\nJagadevpet\nJaganguda\nJagannadapuram \nJagannatha Dasa\nJagan's Degree College\nJagapati Babu\nJagarlamudi Kuppuswamy Chowdary College\nJagathgiri Gutta\nJaggaiahpet\nJaggampeta\nJaggampeta (Assembly constituency)\nJaggayyapeta\nJaggayyapeta (Assembly constituency)\nJaggery\nJagriti Yatra\nJagruti Degree & PG College\nJahanuma\nJai Chandiram\nJaikesaram\nJainepally\nJaipal Reddy\nJajireddigudem\nJakkepalli\nJaklapallisaurus\nJaladi Raja Rao\nJalaput Dam\nJalasangvi\nJalayagnam\nJalluru\nJalpally\nJamalapuram\nJameela Pet\nJamepally\nJammalamadaka\nJammalamadugu\nJammalamadugu (Assembly constituency)\nJammalmadugu\nJammavaram\nJammikunta\nJammulapalem\nJampana\nJamuna (actress)\nJanakavaram Panguluru\nJanakipuram\nJanamanchi Seshadri Sarma\nJanardhanavaram\nJanata Party\nJangamaheswarapadu\nJangamaheswara puram\nJangamgudem\nJangaon, Nalgonda\nJangaon, Warangal\nJanmabhoomi Express\nJannaram\nJannaram, Enkoor\nJapal\nJasmine \nJasti Chelameswar\nJatavallabhula Purushottam\nJawahar Deer Park\nJawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Peddapuram\nJawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Prakasam\nJawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Valasapalle\nJawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Veleru\nJawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Anantapur\nJawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Kakinada\nJay Galla\nJaya Krishna Gummadi\nJaya Prada\nJaya Prakash Reddy\nJayachitra\nJayalalitha (Telugu Actress)\nJayalalitha III government\nJayalalithaa\nJayamangali Blackbuck Reserve\nJayanth Manda\nJayapa Nayudu\nJayaprakash Narayan (Lok Satta)\nJeedipalli reservoir\nJeelugumilli\nJeeva (Telugu actor)\nJegurupadu\nJerdon's courser\nJesudasu Seelam\nJetti A. Oliver\nJhansi High School\nJhetty\nJhini\nJhond\nJhulelal Institute of Technology\nJiddu Krishnamurti bibliography\nJiddu Krishnamurti\nJignas\nJikki\nJilled\nJillelguda\nJinnah Tower\nJinnaram\nJNTUA College of Engineering, Pulivendula\nJoe Madiath\nJogal Kasti\nJogi\nJoginpally B R Engineering College\nJogipet\nJogu Ramanna\nJogwa\nJoharapuram\nJohnson Grammar School\nJonnada\nJonnavari palem\nJonnavaripalem\nJonnavithhula Ramalingeswara Rao\nJonnawada\nJukal, India\nJukkal (SC) (Assembly constituency)\nJulapalle\nJulurpadu\nJungle crow\nJupadu bungalow\nJupally Krishna Rao\nJurala Project\nJustice Party (India)\nJuvvigunta\nJwala Gutta\nJwalamukhi (poet)\nJwalapuram\nJyotirlinga\nJyothishmathi College of Engineering and Technology\nJyothi Surekha Vennam\n\nK Kothagudem\nK. A. Paul\nK. B. Tilak\nK. C. Canal\nK. Chakravarthy\nK. Chandrasekhar Rao\nK. Devasahayam\nK. E. Madanna\nK. E. Krishnamurthy\nK. I. Varaprasad Reddy\nK. J. Yesudas\nK. Jayachandra Reddy\nK. Keshava Rao\nK. K. Paul\nK. L. Puram\nK. N. Govindacharya\nK. N. Kesari\nK. N. Rao\nK. N. T. Sastry\nK. Pratibha Bharati\nK. Pushpaleela\nK. R. Puram\nK. S. Chandrasekharan\nK. S. Ravindra\nK. S. R. Das\nK. Sriramakrishnaiah\nK. Sankaranarayanan\nK. T. Rama Rao\nK. V. K. Raju\nK. V. P. Ramachandra Rao\nK. V. Subba Reddy\nK. V. Vijayendra Prasad\nK.A.P.Viswanatham Government Medical College\nK.S.R Murthy\nKaashinathuni Vishwanath\nKaaza\nKabaddi\nKacharam\nKacheguda\nKachiguda\nKachiguda railway station\nKachivani Singaram\nKadapa\nKadapa (Assembly constituency)\nKadapa (Lok Sabha constituency)\nKadaparthy\nKadavergu\nKadipikonda\nKadirenigudem\nKadiri\nKadiri (Assembly constituency)\nKadiyala\nKadiyam Srihari\nKadiyapulanka\nKadlapur\nKadri Venkata Reddy\nKadthal\nKaghaznagar\nKaigal Water Falls\nKaikala Satyanarayana\nKaikalas\nKaikalur (Assembly constituency)\nKaikaluru\nKaikaram\nKaikavolu\nKaithapuram\nKajuluru\nKajuluru mandal\nKakani Venkata Ratnam\nKakanur\nKakarla Subba Rao\nKakarlamudi\nKakarlapalli\nKakatiya Canal\nKakatiya dynasty\nKakatiya Institute of Technology and Science\nKakatiya Medical College\nKakatiya Thermal Power Station\nKakatiya University\nKakavedu\nKakinada\nKakinada airport\nKakinada (Lok Sabha constituency)\nKakinada Beach Festival\nKakinada City (Assembly constituency)\nKakinada khaja\nKakinada Port\nKakinada Port railway station\nKakinada(Rural)\nKakloor\nKakumanu\nKala Venkata Rao\nKalachakra stupa\nKalachakra\nKalagara Sai Lakshmana Rao\nKalakand\nKalamkari\nKalasagaram Annual Cultural Festival Of Music, Dance and Drama\nKalasapadu\nKalavalapalli\nKalavapamula\nKalepalli, Rayalacheruvu\nKaleshwaram\nKalher\nKaliambakam\nKalidhindi B. R. Varma\nKalidindi\nKalikiri\nKalinga (India)\nKalinga architecture\nKalki Bhagavan\nKalla\nKallam Anji Reddy\nKallamvaripalem\nKallapalem\nKalleda\nKallepalli Rega\nKallur, Chittoor\nKallur, Khammam district\nKallur, Kurnool district\nKalluri Chandramouli\nKalluri Sushila\nKalluru\nKalmalcheruvu\nKaloji Narayana Rao\nKalvakole\nKalvakuntla Chandrashekar Rao\nKalwakurthy\nKalwakurthy (Assembly constituency)\nKalwakurthy lift irrigation scheme\nKalyanam Raghuramaiah\nKalyandurg\nKalyandurg (Assembly constituency)\nKamala Kotnis\nKamala Nagar, Hyderabad\nKamalakara Kameshwara Rao\nKamalakur\nKamalapur, Karimnagar\nKamalapuram (Assembly constituency)\nKamalapuram Mandal\nKamalapuram, Kadapa\nKamaluddin Ahmed\nKamanpalle\nKamanpur\nKamareddy\nKamareddy (Assembly constituency)\nKamathis\nKamavarapukota\nKambadur\nKambagiri\nKambalakonda Wildlife Sanctuary\nKambhoji\nKamepalli\nKamineni Institute of Dental Sciences\nKamineni Institute of Medical Sciences\nKamla Beniwal\nKamma (caste)\nKammaguda\nKammanadu\nKammara\nKammavaari palem\nKammeta\nKamptee Coalfield\nKanagal, Nalgonda\nKanagala\nKanaganapalle\nKanagarthi, Jammikunta\nKanagarthi, Konaraopeta\nKanagarthi, Odela\nKanagarthi, Peddapalle\nKanaka Durga Temple\nKanaka Mamidi\nKanakadripalli\nKanamarlapudi\nKanampalli\nKanapur\nKanchan armour\nKanchana (actress)\nKanchana Sita\nKancherla Gopanna\nKanchikacherla\nKanchrapara Airfield\nKandagatla\nKandala Subrahmanyam\nKandalampadu\nKandaleru Dam\nKandarodai\nKandawada\nKandlagunta\nKandlakoya\nKandrakota\nKandukur\nKandukur (Assembly constituency)\nKandukuri Veeresalingam\nKandukuru, Khammam\nKandula Mallikarjuna Rao\nKanekal\nKangti\nKanigiri\nKanigiri (Assembly constituency)\nKanipakam Vinayaka Temple\nKanipakam\nKanithi Balancing Reservoir\nKankanalapalli\nKankatapalem\nKankipadu\nKanmanoor\nKannappa Nayanar\nKanneveedu\nKanta Rao (Telugu actor)\nKantakapalli\nKantamraju Konduru\nKantragada\nKanumolu\nKanumuri Bapi Raju\nKanuri (surname)\nKanuri Lakshmana Rao\nKanuri Ranjith Kumar\nKanva Shakha\nKanyadanam (1998 film)\nKapilatirtham\nKapileswarapuram, East Godavari\nKapileswarapuram, Krishna\nKappalabandham\nKappapahad\nKapra\nKapu (caste)\nKapu \nKapugallu\nKarakuduru\nKaramchedu\nKaranam\nKarankote\nKarapa\nKarempudi\nKari (name)\nKarimaddela\nKarimnagar (Assembly constituency)\nKarimnagar (Lok Sabha constituency)\nKarimnagar district\nKarivalasa\nKarkhana, Secunderabad\nKarlakunta\nKarlapalem\nKarmanghat\nKarmanghat Hanuman Temple\nKarnam Malleswari\nKarra Subba Reddy\nKarri Narayana Rao\nKarthik Naralasetty\nKarthik Raja\nKartikeya Temple, Pehowa\nKarumanchi\nKarumuri Venkata Nageswara Rao\nKarvirala\nKarwan\nKasani Narayana\nKasaraneni Sadasivarao\nKasaraneni Vari Palem\nKasavanoor\nKashinathuni Nageshwara Rao\nKasim-Babu Brothers\nKasthuri (actress)\nKasu Brahmananda Reddy\nKasu Brahmananda Reddy National Park\nKasula Purushottama Kavi\nKataram\nKatepally\nKatevaram\nKathlapur\nKatrenikona\nKatta Maisamma temple\nKattamuru\nKattipudi\nKattunayakan\nKaturi Medical College\nKauravar\nKavalakuntla\nKavali\nKavali (Assembly constituency)\nKavali, Srikakulam\nKavikondala Venkata Rao\nKavisekhara Dr Umar Alisha\nKavitrayam \nKavuluru\nKavuluru, West Godavari\nKavuru\nKavuru Samba Siva Rao\nKavvaguda\nKawadipally\nKawal Wildlife Sanctuary\nKazi Syed Karimuddin\nKazipet\nKaziranga Express\nKediri (historical kingdom)\nKeelapuliyur\nKeelu Gurram\nKeerthi Reddy\nKeesara\nKeesaragutta Temple\nKeethavarigudem\nKemburi Ramamohan Rao\nKendriya Vidyalaya Bolarum\nKendriya Vidyalaya No. 1 AFA, Dundigal\nKendriya Vidyalaya Tirumalagiri\nKepal\nKesaguda\nKesalingayapalli\nKesamudram\nKesaram\nKesarapalle\nKesava Reddy\nKesavapur\nKesavaram\nKeshampeta\nKeshav pally\nKeshavapuram\nKethanakonda\nKethepally\nKethreddipalle\nKethu Viswanatha Reddy\nKhader Memorial College of Engineering and Technology\nKhadi and Village Industries Commission\nKhairatabad (Assembly constituency)\nKhairtabad\nKhairtabad railway station\nKhaja\nKhajaguda\nKhajipalem\nKhajipet\nKhammam (Assembly constituency)\nKhammam (Lok Sabha constituency)\nKhammam district\nKhammam Fort\nKhammam \nKhanapur (Assembly constituency)\nKhanapur, Adilabad\nKhanapur, Manchal mandal\nKhandavalli\nKhandavalli Lakshmi Ranjanam\nKhandoba\nKhandukur\nKhapuraipally\nKharavela\nKharmerungulatum\nKhasimpet\nKhayyum\nKhokhar Khanzada\nKhonds\nKhudavandpur\nKhurda Road–Visakhapatnam section\nKilesapuram\nKing George Hospital, Visakhapatnam\nKing Kothi Palace\nKinjarapu Yerran Naidu\nKinnerasani Wildlife Sanctuary\nKirlampudi\nKirtan \nKishenji\nKismatpur\nKistaram\nKistareddypet\nKobad Ghandy\nKobbari Lavuju\nKoccharlakota Satyanarayana\nKodad\nKodad (Assembly constituency)\nKodair\nKodakandla\nKodangal\nKodangal (Assembly constituency)\nKodavatikallu\nKodi Rammurthy Naidu\nKodimial\nKodivaka\nKodumur\nKodumur (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nKodumuru\nKodur (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nKodur, Pulkal\nKoduru, Krishna\nKoduru, Vizianagaram\nKodurupaka\nKoheda, Karimnagar\nKoheda, Ranga Reddy\nKoh-i-Noor\nKohir\nKoilkonda\nKoilkuntla\nKoil Sagar\nKoka Subba Rao\nKokapet\nKokkiligadda-Kothapalem\nKokkupalem\nKolalapudi\nKolam people\nKolami language\nKolanukonda\nKolavennu\nKolimigundla\nKolkonda\nKollapadkal\nKollapur\nKollapur (Assembly constituency)\nKolleru Lake\nKollipara\nKollur, Guntur\nKolthur\nKoluvu Srinivasa\nKomaram Bheem\nKomaripalem\nKomarole\nKomarolu\nKomarru\nKomarthy\nKomati Caste\nKomatigunta Rajupalem\nKomatipalli\nKomatireddy Raj Gopal Reddy\nKomatireddy Venkat Reddy\nKomerabanda\nKommareddi Suryanarayana\nKommineni Apparao\nKommineni Seshagiri Rao\nKommineni Srinivasa Chakravarthi\nKomminenivaripalem\nKommugudem\nKommuru\nKompally\nKomrelly Mallanna Temple\nKona Prabhakara Rao\nKonakalla Narayana Rao\nKonakalla Narayanarao Goud\nKonakanamitla\nKonakondla\nKonaraopeta\nKonark Express\nKonaseema\nKonda Karavas\nKonda Madhava Reddy\nKonda Surekha\nKonda Venkatappaiah\nKondamadugu\nKondamanjulur\nKondamuru\nKondanagula\nKondapak\nKondapalle\nKondapalli\nKondapalli Dasaradh Kumar\nKondapalli Fort\nKondapalli Pydithalli Naidu\nKondapalli Seetharamaiah\nKondapally Toys\nKondaparthy\nKondapaturu\nKondapi\nKondapi (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nKondapur, Ghatkesar\nKondapur, Medak\nKondapur, Nalgonda\nKondapur, Ranga Reddy\nKondapuram, Kadapa\nKondapuram, Nellore\nKondavalasa Lakshmana Rao\nKondavid Fort\nKondepadu, Guntar district\nKondoor, Nalgonda\nKondramutla\nKondurg\nKoneru Humpy\nKoneru Ranga Rao\nKoneswaram temple\nKoneti Raju Palem\nKoneti Rayala Swamy Temple\nKongara Jaggayya\nKongara Kalan, Ranga Reddy district\nKonidela\nKonidena\nKonijerla\nKonijeti Rosaiah\nKonithiwada\nKonizerlla\nKonkuduru\nKonta\nKoonur\nKoora Rajanna\nKopela\nKopparavandlapalle\nKopperapalem, Prakasam Dist\nKoppole\nKorapa.Krishnapuram\nKoratala Satyanarayana\nKoratikal\nKoratla\nKoratla (Assembly constituency)\nKoravar\nKoringa River\nKorisapadu\nKorlagunta\nKorrapadu, Guntur\nKorrapadu, Kadapa\nKorremula\nKoru Uppalapadu\nKorukollu\nKosa (Maoist)\nKosaraju Raghavaiah\nKosgi\nKoshti\nKosigi\nKossar\nKota Gandredu\nKota Vamsa\nKota, Nellore\nKotagiri Vidyadhara Rao\nKotananduru\nKotapahad\nKotappakonda\nKotasaurus\nKotayya Pratyagatma\nKotcherla\nKotcherlakota Rangadhama Rao\nKotcherlakota Rangadhama Rao Memorial Lecture Award\nKotha Palem\nKotha Raghuramaiah\nKotha Reddy Palem\nKotha Remalle\nKotha Satchidanda Murthy\nKothacheruvu\nKothaganesunipadu\nKothaguda\nKothagudem\nKothagudem (Assembly constituency)\nKothagudem Thermal Power Station\nKothakota\nKothalanka\nKothaluru\nKothapalle\nKothapalli, Guntur\nKothapalli Jayashankar\nKothapally, Gambhiraopet, Karimnagar\nKothapally, Nizamabad\nKothapally, Ranga Reddy\nKothapatnam\nKothapet, Hyderabad\nKothapet Fruit Market\nKothapeta, East Godavari district\nKothapeta (Assembly constituency)\nKothavalasa\nKothavalasa railway station\nKothur\nKothuru, Krishna\nKothuru, Srikakulam\nKothwalguda\nKoti, Hyderabad\nKotipalli railway station\nKotla Jayasurya Prakasha Reddy\nKotla Vijaya Bhaskara Reddy\nKottakki\nKotthapalli railway station\nKotturu Dhanadibbalu\nKoulutla Chenna Kesava Temple\nKoundinya Wildlife Sanctuary\nKovelamudi Bapayya\nKovelamudi Raghavendra Rao\nKovelamudi Surya Prakash Rao\nKovilampadu\nKovvali (village)\nKovvali Lakshmi Narasimha Rao\nKovvur\nKovvur (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nKovvuri Gangireddy\nKowkuntla\nKowkur\nKowthalam\nKoya language\nKoyalagudem\nKoyalagudem, Nalgonda district\nKPC Medical College and Hospital\nKPN Travels\nKranti Road Transport\nKrauncha Giri\nKRDR Co Op Jr College\nKrishi Public School\nKrishna Bhagavaan\nKrishna Chaitanya (lyricist)\nKrishna district\nKrishna-Godavari Diocese of the Church of South India\nKrishna Godavari Basin\nKrishna III\nKrishna Nagar, Hyderabad\nKrishna Rao (journalist)\nKrishna River \nKrishna Teja Junior College\nKrishna University\nKrishna Water Disputes Tribunal\nKrishna Wildlife Sanctuary\nKrishnagiri, Kurnool district\nKrishnagudiyil Oru Pranayakalathu\nKrishnapatnam\nKrishnapatnam Port\nKrishnarao Palem\nKrishnavaram\nKrishnaveni (actress)\nKrishnudu\nKristappa Nimmala\nKrosuru\nKruthivennu\nKsheerarama\nKshetrayya\nKSRM College of Engineering\nKubja Vishnuvardhana\nKuchanpally\nKuchinapally\nKuchipudi, Krishna\nKuchipudi\nKudair\nKudalasangama\nKudapa\nKuddigam\nKududula Nagesh\nKudunuru\nKukatpally\nKukatpally (Assembly constituency)\nKukatpally (Vidan Sabha constituency)\nKukkunoor\nKukkuta Sastra\nKuladevata\nKulandeshwara Swamy Temple\nKulcharam\nKulkacharla\nKulothunga Chola III\nKulpakji\nKumaradevam\nKumararama\nKumari (actress)\nKumari (children)\nKumili\nKummariguda, Mahbubnagar\nKummariguda, Ranga Reddy\nKummera\nKumud Ben Joshi\nKumudavalli\nKunama Raju Palem\nKunamnenivaripalem\nKunaparaju Parava\nKunavaram\nKunayavalasa\nKunbi\nKunchanapalli\nKunchepalli\nKundhanagurthy\nKundu River\nKundurpi\nKunduru Jana Reddy\nKunguma Poovum Konjum Puravum\nKunkalamarru\nKunnakudi Subbalakshmi\nKuntala Waterfall\nKuntloor\nKupia language\nKuppam\nKuppam (Assembly constituency)\nKuppanapudi \nKurada\nKuravi\nKurella\nKurichedu\nKurma\nKurmai\nKurmalguda\nKurmannapalem\nKurmidda\nKurnool\nKurnool (Assembly constituency)\nKurnool (Lok Sabha constituency)\nKurnool district\nKurnool Medical College\nKurnool train crash\nKuruba\nKurubavandla palli\nKurumaddali\nKurumba language\nKurupam\nKurupam (ST)(Assembly constituency)\nKuruvi\nKushaiguda\nKushi TV\nKushinagar Airport\nKusumanchi\nKuthukuluru\nKuvi language\n\nL. B. Nagar\nL. B. Nagar (Assembly constituency)\nL. Ramana\nL. V. Prasad\nL. V. Prasad Eye Institute\nLaadam\nLabbay\nLachapet\nLaddu\nLagadapati Rajagopal\nLagori\nLahuji Raghoji Salve\nLajja Gauri\nLakdi ka pul\nLakdi-ka-pul railway station\nLakkaraju garlapadu\nLakkaram\nLakkavaram\nLakkidam\nLakkoju Sanjeevaraya Sharma\nLaksha Gala Sankeertanarchana\nLakshmapur\nLakshmi (actress)\nLakshmigari Palli\nLakshmi Kantamma\nLakshmi Kumara Thathachariar\nLakshmi Putrudu\nLal Bahadur Shastri Airport\nLal Darwaza\nLalacheruvu\nLalgadi Malakpet\nLallaguda railway station\nLambadis\nLanco Infratech\nLanga Voni\nLanka Sundaram\nLankapalle Agraharam\nLankapalli\nLankapalli Bullayya\nLanka Sagar Dam\nLaskerguda\nLateef Saheb Dargah\nLaxma Goud\nLaxmaiah Manchikanti\nLaxmi Puran\nLaxmipuram\nLaya (actress)\nLeela Naidu\nLegislative council \nLemalle\nLepakshi\nLepakshi Degree College\nLIET\nLimboor\nLingal\nLingala, Kadapa\nLingala, Telangana\nLingalaghanpur\nLingam Suryanarayana\nLingampally railway station\nLingampally, Hyderabad\nLingampally, Karimnagar\nLingampally, Ranga Reddy\nLinganapalle\nLinganna Pujari\nLingapalem\nLingarajpally\nLingasamudram\nLingayatism\nLingojiguda\nLingojigudem\nList of atheist activists and educators\nList of birds of Telangana\nList of Brahmins\nList of cabinet ministers of Telangana\nList of Chief Ministers of Telangana\nList of cities in Telangana by population \nList of dams and reservoirs in Telangana\nList of Deccan Chargers cricketers\nList of Deshastha Brahmin surnames\nBasella alba\nList of Edicts of Ashoka\nList of educational institutions in Kakinada\nList of governors of Telangana\nList of guerrillas\nList of historical unrecognized states\nList of institutions of higher education in Telangana\nList of language regulators\nList of libraries in Hyderabad, India\nList of Muslim Other Backward Classes communities\nList of official languages by state\nList of official languages\nList of Other Backward Classes\nList of people from Telangana\nList of people from Guntur\nList of people from Hyderabad\nList of princely states of India\nList of Reddys\nList of Satish Dhawan Space Centre launches\nList of self-immolations in Telangana\nList of Shiva temples in India\nList of State Highways in Telangana\nList of State Protected Monuments in Telangana\nList of Telangana poets\nList of Telugu people\nList of Telugu-language television channels\nList of tourist attractions in Hyderabad\nList of trade unions in the Singareni coal fields\nLittle Angels Public School\nLittle Angels School\nLittle Buds Vidya Niketan School\nLittle Flower High School, Hyderabad\nLittle Flower School, Mudinepalli\nLittle Lights Free Education High School\nLok Satta Movement\nLok Satta Party\nLokayukta\nLokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital\nLothkunta\nLothugedda junction\nLower Dharmaram Formation\nLower Maleri Formation\nLoyapally\nLoyola Academy, Secunderabad\nLoyola Public School\nLuciano Narsingh\nLungi\nLuther Abraham\nLuxettipet\n\nM. B. Sreenivasan\nM. Balamuralikrishna\nM. Indira\nM. Jagannadha Rao\nM. L. Jaisimha\nM. L. Kumawat\nM. M. Keeravani\nM. M. Rajendran\nM. M. Srilekha\nM. P. Shah Medical College\nM. Prabhakar Reddy\nM. Ranga Rao\nM. S. Gowd\nM.Shankar Yadav\nM. S. K. Prasad\nM. S. Narasimhan\nM. S. Narayana\nM. S. Raghunathan\nM. S. Ramarao\nM. V. Mysura Reddy\nM. V. Narasimha Rao\nM. Venkataramana\nM.S. Partha Sarathi\nM.S.N. Charities\nM. Y. S. Prasad\nMa. Po. Si.\nMaa Junior\nMAA Movies\nMaa Music\nMaa Telugu Thalliki\nMAA TV\nMachanpalle\nMachavaram, Guntur\nMachavaram, Medak\nMacherla\nMacherla (Assembly constituency)\nMachilipatnam\nMachilipatnam (Assembly constituency)\nMachilipatnam (Lok Sabha constituency)\nMachilipatnam Kalamkari\nMachilipatnam railway station\nMadakasira\nMadala\nMadalavarigudem\nMadamanuru\nMadanapalle\nMadanapalle (Assembly constituency)\nMadannapet\nMadanpally\nMaddelagudem Village\nMaddikera\nMaddikera (East)\nMaddikera Agraharam\nMaddipadu\nMadduvalasa\nMadeenaguda\nMadgul\nMadgulapally\nMadhapar\nMadhapur\nMadhapuram\nMadharam\nMadhavapeddi Satyam\nMadhavi (actress)\nMadhavi Vuppalapati\nMadhira\nMadhira (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nMadhu Goud Yaskhi\nMadhumitha\nMadhunapantula Satyanarayana Sastry\nMadhur Chaturvedi\nMadhurantakam Rajaram\nMadhurawada\nMadhusudhan Rao Lagadapati\nMadhusudhan Reddy Takkala\nMadibaka\nMadiga\nMadikonda\nMadina, Hyderabad\nMadinaguda\nMadipally\nMadras Devadasis (Prevention of Dedication) Act\nMadras Presidency\nMadras State legislative assembly election, 1952\nMadrasapattinam\nMadugula (Assembly constituency)\nMadupalli\nMadurai Nayaks\nMagadheera\nMagallu\nMaganoor\nMagatapalli\nMagdumpur\nMagunta Sreenivasulu Reddy\nMaha Mutharam\nMahabubabad\nMahabubnagar (Lok Sabha constituency)\nMahadeva Temple, Itagi\nMahadevapuram\nMahadevpur\nMahakuta group of temples\nMahalakshmi Vrata\nMahameghavahana dynasty\nMahanandi\nMaharaja of Vizianagram\nMaharajah's College\nMaharajah's Government College of Music and Dance\nMaharajgunj\nMaharishi Vidya Mandir Schools\nMahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences\nMahatma Gandhi Medical College & Research Institute\nMahatma Gandhi University, Nalgonda\nMahbub Ali Khan, Asaf Jah VI\nMahbubnagar district\nMahbubnagar \nMahe Jabeen\nMahendra Mountains\nMahendragiri, Odisha\nMahendravadi\nMahesh Babu\nMaheshwara Institute Of Technology\nMaheshwaram\nMaheshwaram (Assembly constituency)\nMaheswaram\nMajhighariani Temple\nMajhiputtuga\nMajji Sundarayya Patrudu\nMajlis Bachao Tehreek\nMakar Sankranti\nMakhtal\nMakineni Basavapunnaiah\nMakkena Mallikarjuna Rao\nMakkuva\nMakthal (Assembly constituency)\nMakuta VFX\nMala (caste)\nMalakpet railway station\nMalavika (singer)\nMalaysian Telugu\nMaldakal\nMaldevi River\nMalharrao\nMalik Maqbul\nMalik Motasim Khan\nMalikipuram\nMalkaram\nMalkizgudam\nMalladi Chandrasekhara Sastry\nMalladi, India\nMallampall\nMallampet\nMallapur\nMallapur, Karimnagar\nMallavolu\nMallela Theertham\nMallePalli\nMallepally\nMallepally Laxmaiah\nMallial\nMallikarjun Goud\nMallikarjuna Rao (actor)\nMallikarjuna Swamy\nMallinātha Sūri\nMallu Bhatti Vikramarka\nMallu Ravi\nMallu Swarajyam\nMalwala palace\nMalyadri\nMalyavat Mountains\nMamata medical college\nMamidala\nMamidicolla\nMamidipalli\nMamidipudi Venkatarangaiya Foundation\nMamidipudi Venkatarangayya\nMamilla Shailaja Priya\nMamillapalli\nMamunuru\nMana Party (India)\nManakondur\nManakondur (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nManapuram\nManavata\nManchal\nMancherial\nMancherial railway station\nManchirevula\nManda Jagannath\nMandalapalli\nMandalapuram\nMandali Buddha Prasad\nMandali Venkata Krishna Rao\nMandamarri\nMandapeta\nMandapeta (Assembly constituency)\nMandavalli\nMandepudi\nMandholla Gudem\nMandikal\nMandur, Guntur\nManduva Logili\nManduvavaripalem\nManer River\nMangalagiri (Assembly constituency)\nMangalagudem\nMangalampadu\nMangali\nMangalyaan\nMangapet\nMango \nMangollu\nManik Prabhu Temple\nManikarnika Express\nManikonda\nManikyammaguda\nManimeswaram\nManjira River\nManjira Wildlife Sanctuary\nManju Bhargavi\nManjula Ghattamaneni\nMankatha\nMankhal\nManmarri\nManna-Dora language\nMannava\nMannava Balayya\nManoj Manchu\nManoor, Telangana\nManopadu\nMansanpally\nManthan Gowrelly\nManthan international school\nManthani\nManthani (Assembly constituency)\nManthena Venkata Raju\nManthenavaripalem\nMantralayam\nMantralayam (Assembly constituency)\nMantripalem\nManuguru\nMarampudi Joji\nMaredumilli\nMaremanda\nMarine shrimp farming\nMaripeda\nMaritime history of Odisha\nMarkapur\nMarkapuram (Assembly constituency)\nMarlapalem\nMarlava\nMarpalle\nMarredpally\nMarri Chenna Reddy\nMarriguda\nMarrigudem Village\nMarripudi, Guntur\nMarror, Telangana\nMarteru\nMartur\nMarundeeswarar Temple\nMaruthi Mandir\nMarxist Communist Party of India\nMarxist Communist Party of India (United)\nMarxist–Leninist Committee\nMasab Tank\nMaseedupuram\nMasidugudem, Nalgonda district\nMasoba\nMastan Vali\nMaster of Fisheries Science\nMaster Venu\nMasula boat\nMatang\nMathew Chandrankunnel\nMathukumalli\nMathukumalli V. Subbarao\nMatta Ravikumar\nMattampally\nMattu Pongal\nMaturi Venkata Subba Rao Engineering College\nMaulana Azad Medical College\nMavillapadu\nMavjinjava\nMaxwell Trevor\nMayabazar\nMayalokam\nMedamarthy\nMedaram\nMedarametla palem\nMedbowli\nMedikonduru\nMedipalle\nMedipalli\nMedipally\nMedium of instruction\nMedpalli Nakkerta\nMeenakshi Express\nMeerjapeta\nMegha-Tropiques\nMeghna Naidu\nMeghna Reddy\nMeghpur, Bhuj\nMehdipatnam\nMekapati Rajamohan Reddy\nMekapotula Somanath\nMelapuram\nMellachervu\nMelpakkam\nMenakuru\nMerangi\nMerlapalem\nMetpalle\nMetpally\nMettapalli\nMG Road, Secunderabad\nMica Mazdoor Sangh\nMidday Meal Scheme\nMidde Ramulu\nMidhatana Palli\nMidjil\nMidthur\nMilitary colony\nMillet\nMimicry Srinivos\nMinister Road, Hyderabad\nMir Akbar Ali Khan Sikander Jah, Asaf Jah III\nMir Jumla II\nMir Khasim Ali\nMir Mohtesham Ali Khan\nMir Nizam Ali Khan, Asaf Jah II\nMir Sa'id Muhammad Khan, Salabat Jang\nMirchi Bada\nMirjaguda\nMirkhanpet\nMiryalaguda\nMiryalaguda (Assembly constituency)\nMiryalguda (Lok Sabha constituency)\nMiryalaguda railway station\nMisri\nMissionaries of the Poor\nMittakandala\nMittakodur\nMittatmakur\nMiyapur\nMLR institute of Pharmacy\nMLR Institute of Technology\nMoazzam Jahi Market\nMobile telephone numbering in India\nModern High School, Narayanpet\nModugula Venugopala Reddy\nModukuru\nModumaigudem\nMogadalapadu\nMogallu\nMoganti\nMoghalrajpuram caves\nMoghlapura\nMogullapalle\nMoguluru\nMohammad Ahmed Zaki\nMohammad Majid Hussain\nMohammed Adil Shah\nMohammed Asrarullah Hussaini\nMohammed Shakir (Indian politician)\nMohan Babu\nMohd Amanullah Khan\nMoida\nMoinabad (mandal)\nMolla (poet)\nMominpet\nMonda Market\nMondemkhallu\nMondi Gowrelly\nMonsanto \nMoola Narayana Swamy\nMoon Impact Probe\nMoosapet\nMoosrambagh\nMoosy River\nMopidevi\nMoripirala\nMorjampadu\nMorning Raga\nMortha\nMosalikanti Thirumala Rao\nMotamarri\nMothadaka\nMothey\nMothey Vedakumari\nMotkupalli Narasimhulu\nMoturi Satyanarayana\nMoturu\nMoturu Hanumantha Rao\nMoturu Udayam\nMoula-Ali\nMounagiri Hanuman Temple\nMovva\nMPR Dam\nMRPS\nMrs. A.V.N. College\nMrutyunjaya Nagaram\nMucherla\nMuchintal\nMuchivolu\nMuddanur\nMuddem Guda\nMudhol Hound\nMudhole (Assembly constituency)\nMudichintalapalle\nMudigonda Lingamurthy\nMudigubba\nMudimiyal\nMudinepalli\nMudipalli\nMudirajupalem\nMudivarthi\nMudumbai\nMudunuru\nMugdumpally\nMughal tribe\nMuhajir people\nMuhammad Quli Qutb Shah\nMukha-Dora language\nMukkamala\nMukkamala, East Godavari\nMukkellapadu\nMukku Kasi Reddy\nMukteswaram\nMukul Sangma\nMukunoor\nMulakalapalli\nMulalanka\nMulapadu\nMullapudi Harishchandra Prasad\nMullapudi Venkata Ramana\nMulug (ST)(Assembly constituency)\nMulug, Medak\nMulug, Warangal\nMulukanadu Brahmins\nMummidivaram (Assembly constituency)\nMumtaz Ahmed Khan (politician)\nMunagacherla\nMunagala\nMunda languages\nMundlamuru\nMundlapadu\nMundlapati Ramanadha Rao\nMuneerabad\nMunganda\n\nMunimadugu\nMunipalli\nMunipally\nMunjuluru\nMunnangi\nMunnuru Kapu\nMunpalle\nMunugode\nMunugode (Assembly constituency)\nMuppala Lakshmana Rao\nMuppala Ranganayakamma\nMuppalaneni Shiva\nMuppalla\nMuppalla village\nMuppavarapu\nMuralidhar Rao\nMurali Mohan\nMuralinagar\nMurthuzaguda\nMurugan \nMuse Art Gallery \nMusi River (India)\nMusicians of the Kingdom of Mysore\nMustabad\nMusunuri Kaapaaneedu\nMusunuri Nayaks\nMusunuru\nMutharam\nMutharam (A)\nMutharam (N)\nMuthireddy Gudem\nMuthuvalloor\nMuthuvan language\nMuthyalamma\nMutluru\nMuttaikota\nMVGR College of Engineering\nMydukur\nMydukur (Assembly constituency)\nMylargadda\nMylavaram\nMylavaram (Assembly constituency)\nMylavaram Dam\nMylavaram, Kadapa\nMynampadu\nMynampati Sreerama Chandra\nMysore Kingdom\n\nN S Prasad\nN T Rama Rao filmography\nN. Chandrababu Naidu\nN. G. Ranga\nN. Kothapalli\nN. Kumarayya\nN. P. Durga\nN. Rangaswamy\nN. Rangaswamy\nN. T. Rama Rao Jr.\nN. T. Rama Rao\nN. Trivikrama Rao\nN. V. Krishnaiah\nN.F.C.Nagar\nN.J. Yasaswy\nN.V. Raghuram\nNaa Autograph\nNabam Tuki\nNabipeta\nNacharam\nNadari River\nNadendla\nNadendla Bhaskara Rao\nNadendla Manohar\nNadergul\nNadigudem\nNadikudi-Pagidipalli section\nNaga Chaitanya\nNaga Chaturthi\nNaga Vaishnavi\nNagampeta\nNagandla\nNaganpally\nNagapuram\nNagaram, Guntur district\nNagareddipet\nNagari (Assembly constituency)\nNagaripalle\nNagarjuna (actor)\nNagarjuna G.\nNagarjuna High School\nNagarjuna Hospital\nNagarjuna Sagar (Assembly constituency)\nNagarjuna Sagar Dam\nNagarjuna Sagar tail pond\nNagarjuna\nNagarjunakonda\nNagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve\nNagartha\nNagavali River\nNagavarma I\nNagawali exp\nNagayalanka\nNagendra Karri\nNageshvara Jyotirlinga\nNagireddiguda\nNagireddypalle\nNagole\nNagullanka\nNaguluppalapadu\nNagunur Fort\nNagupalli\nNaguru\nNai (caste)\nNaidu \nNaidu Family\nNaiduvalasa\nNaiki language\nNaina Ashwin Kumar\nNakashi art\nNakkalapalle\nNakrekal\nNakrekal (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nNal Airport\nNalakadoddi\nNalla Reddi Naidu\nNallabelly\nNallacheruvu\nNallajerla\nNallakunta\nNallala Odelu\nNallamada\nNallamala Hills\nNallan Chakravartula Krishnamacharyulu\nNallari Kiran Kumar Reddy\nNallavelly\nNallavengana Palli\nNalli (surname)\nNalluri\nNalluru, Anantapur\nNalsar University of Law\nNalugu Rallu Aata – Game of 4 stones\nNalugu Stambhalata\nNama Nageswara Rao\nNamaiyur\nNambalia\nNambulapulakunta\nNames of Hyderabad\nNamini Subrahmanyam Naidu\nNamrata Shirodkar\nNanakramguda\nNanakramguda temple\nNancharipet\nNandagiri\nNandalur\nNandamuri Balakrishna\nNandamuri Harikrishna\nNandamuri Kalyan Ram\nNandapuram\nNandavaram\nNandi Award for Best Female Comedian\nNandi Awards\nNandi Awards of 2002\nNandi Awards of 2003\nNandi Awards of 2006\nNandi Awards of 2009\nNandi Yellaiah\nNandigam, Vizianagaram\nNandigama\nNandigama (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nNandikotkur\nNandikotkur (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nNandini Goud\nNandini Rai\nNandini Sidda Reddy\nNandita Raj(actress)\nNandivada\nNandiwanaparthy\nNanduri Bapiraju\nNanduri Prasada Rao\nNanduri Ramamohanarao\nNandyal\nNandyal (Assembly constituency)\nNandyal (Lok Sabha constituency)\nNangamangalam Village\nNanganur\nNangegadda\nNani (actor)\nNanjapur\nNannapaneni Rajakumari\nNannayya\nNara Lokesh\nNaramalli Sivaprasad\nNarapally\nNara Rohit\nNarasannapeta (Assembly constituency)\nNarasapuram (Assembly constituency)\nNarasapuram, West Godavari\nNarasaraopet\nNarasaraopet (Assembly constituency)\nNarasaraopet (Lok Sabha constituency)\nNarasaraopeta Engineering College\nNarasimha Konda\nNarasimharaopalem\nNaravari Palle\nNarayan Rao Pawar\nNarayana Engineering College\nNarayana Swamy Ashramam\nNarayanadri Express\nNarayanapuram, Vizianagaram\nNarayanguda\nNarayankhed\nNarayanpoor\nNarendrapuram\nNarketpally\nNarkhuda\nNarla Tata Rao\nNarla Venkateswara Rao\nNarmada Akka\nNarmetta\nNarpala\nNarra Venkateswara Rao\nNarrawada\nNarsampally\nNarsampet\nNarsampet (Assembly constituency)\nNarsapur (Assembly constituency)\nNarsapur, Medak\nNarsapur, Nalgonda\nNarsapuram (Lok Sabha constituency)\nNarsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies, Hyderabad\nNarsimhulapet\nNarsingi, Medak\nNarsipatnam\nNarsipatnam (Assembly constituency)\nNarsipuram\nNarva, Mahbubnagar district\nNaskal\nNataraja Ramakrishna\nNational Confederation of Human Rights Organisations\nNational Front (India)\nNational Highway 16 (India)\nNational Highway 202 (India)\nNational Highway 205 (India)\nNational Institute of Open Schooling\nNational Institute of Technology, Warangal\nNatural Arch, Tirumala hills\nNature Cure Hospital railway station\nNature Cure hospital, Hyderabad\nNav Prerna School, Sikar\nNava Telangana Praja Party\nNaval Science and Technological Laboratory\nNavamalai\nNavdeep\nNavratri\nNavuduru\nNawab Alam yar jung Bahadur\nNawab Saheb Kunta\nNaxalite–Maoist insurgency\nNaya Qila\nNayachar\nNayakampalli\nNayakuralu Nagamma\nNayani Krishnakumari\nNayapul\nNazdik Singaram\nNazirabad Thanda\nNecklace Road\nNecklace Road railway station\nNedunuri Krishnamurthy\nNedunuru\nNedurumalli Janardhana Reddy\nNeelakantapuram\nNeelakanteshwara temple, Antarvedi\nNeelam Sanjeeva Reddy Stadium\nNeelam Sanjiva Reddy\nNeelapu Rami Reddy\nNeelavathi\nNeera\nNeerukonda Massacre\nNeher water system\nNehru Zoological Park\nNekarikallu\nNekkonda\nNeknampur\nNekunam Puram\nNelakondapalli\nNelapatla\nNelapattu\nNellatur\nNellibanda\nNellikudur\nNellimarla (Assembly constituency)\nNellipaka\nNellore (Lok Sabha constituency)\nNellore Chodas\nNellore City (Assembly constituency)\nNellore railway station\nNellore Rural (Assembly constituency)\nNellore train fire\nNellore\nNelore\nNemali\nNemalikallu\nNemergomula\nNennur\nNeredcherla\nNeredmet\nNerella Sharada\nNerella Venu Madhav\nNerrepally\nNethakani\nNettur Technical Training Foundation\nNew Guntur\nNew Paluvayi\nNewton's Institute of Engineering Macherla\nNidadavole\nNidadavole (Assembly constituency)\nNidadavolu railway station\nNidamanoor Mandal\nNidamanur, Prakasam\nNidamanuru, Krishna\nNidamarru\nNidubrolu\nNidudavolu Venkatarao\nNIFT Hyderabad\nNikhil Siddharth\nNimma Raja Reddy\nNimmagadda Prasad\nNimmakuru\nNimra College of Engineering and Technology\nNIMS University, Rangapur\nNina Davuluri\nNirmal (Assembly constituency)\nNirmal\nNirmal furniture\nNirmal paintings\nNirmal toys and craft\nNirmala Visweswara Rao\nNirmalamma\nNisar Ahmad Kakru\nNitin (actor)\nNiyogi\nNizam Club\nNizam College\nNizam of Hyderabad\nNizam Sagar\nNizam Sugar Factory\nNizamabad – Visakhapatnam Express\nNizamabad (Lok Sabha constituency)\nNizamabad (Rural)(Assembly constituency)\nNizamabad (Urban)(Assembly constituency)\nNizamabad district\nNizamabad, Telangana\nNizamia observatory\nNizampet\nNoble College, Machilipatnam\nNoble Public School, Sakhinetipalle\nNolamba Dynasty\nNon-resident Indian and person of Indian origin\nNookala Chinna Satyanarayana\nNookalamma\nNoothankal\nNorth Rajupalem\nNorthern Circars\nNRI Academy of Medical Sciences\nNaval Science and Technological Laboratory\nNTPC Ramagundam\nNTR Gardens\nNTR National Award\nNTR Telugu Desam Party (Lakshmi Parvathi)\nNTV (India)\nNutakki\nNuzendla\nNuzvid\nNuzvid (Assembly constituency)\nNyalata\nNyalkal\n\nOakridge International School\nObagunta\nObuladevaracheruvu\nObulapuram\nObulapuram Mining Company\nObulavaripalle\nOddulameraka\nOdiyathur\nOfficial languages of Puducherry\nOgirala Ramachandra Rao\nOgode\nOgulapur\nOkra seed oil\nOld Godavari Bridge\nOld Paluvayi\nOllari language\nOmarkhandiara\nOmerkhan Daira\nOneness Temple\nOngole (Assembly constituency)\nOngole (Lok Sabha constituency)\nOngole cattle\nOngole railway station\nOngole\nOnipenta\nOosaravelli\nOotpally\nOperation Lalgarh\nOperation Madad (Indian Navy)\nOperation Sea Waves\nOrella, India\nOriental skylark\nOrigin of Pallava\nOrlov (diamond)\nOrvakal\nOsmanistan\nOSSICS\nOwk\n\nP. Adinarayana Rao\nP. Ananda Kumar\nP. B. Sreenivas\nP. Chandra Reddy\nP. Chinnamma Reddy\nP. Janardhan Reddy\nP. K. Monnappa\nP. L. Narayana\nP. L. Raj\nP. Ravi Shankar\nP. S. Ramamohan Rao\nP. Shankar Rao\nP. Shiv Shankar\nP. Surya Prakash\nP. Susheela\nP. Swaroop Reddy\nP. Upendra\nP. V. K. N. Government College\nP. V. Narasimha Rao\nP. V. Rangaiah Naidu\nP. Vishnuvardhan Reddy\nP.E.S. Institute of Medical Sciences and Research\nP.Gannavaram\nP.Naidu Palem\nPaangal\nPABR Dam\nPachala Someswara temple\nPachi Pulusu\nPachipenta\nPadakal\nPadamati Somaram\nPadamati Yaleru\nPadarthi\nPaddy field\nPaderu (ST)(Assembly constituency)\nPadma Devender Reddy\nPadma Shri Awards (1954–59)\nPadma Shri Awards (1960–69)\nPadma Shri Awards (2010–19)\nPadmalaya Studios\nPadmanabham\nPadmapani Acharya\nPadmapriya Janakiraman\nPadmapuram Gardens\nPadmaram\nPadmarao Nagar\nPadmasree Warrior\nPadmasri Dr. B.V Raju Institute of Technology\nPadmavathy Bandopadhyay\nPadutha theeyaga\nPagidipalli-Nallapadu railway line\nPagidyala\nPagolu\nPahadi Shareef\nPaidichintalapally\nPaidi Lakshmayya\nPainganga River\nPaithani\nPaiyaa\nPajarla\nPakala, Chittoor\nPakala, Prakasam\nPakhal Lake\nPakhal Tirumal Reddy\nPaladugu\nPalagara\nPalagummi Padmaraju\nPalair (Assembly constituency)\nPalair Lake\nPalakoderu\nPalakol\nPalakonda (ST)(Assembly constituency)\nPalakurthi (Assembly constituency)\nPalamakole\nPalamaner\nPalamaner (Assembly constituency)\nPalamaneru\nPalamuru University\nPalanati Brahmanaidu\nPalanki Venkata Ramachandra Murthi\nPalaparru\nPalar River\nPalaram\nPalasa (Assembly constituency)\nPalasa railway station\nPalathalikalu\nPalem\nPaleru\nPalgutta\nPalkonda Hills\nPalkuriki Somanatha\nPallam Raju\nPallapadu\nPallava dynasty\nPalle Raghunatha Reddy\nPalle Rama Rao\nPallepahad\nPallerlamudi\nPalletoori Pilla\nPallevada\nPalli Kondeswarar Temple, Surutapalli\nPallikona railway station\nPalm wine\nPalmyra sprout\nPalnadu\nPalukuru\nPalwancha\nPamarru, Krishna district\nPamarru (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nPamarru, East Godavari district\nPambai\nPamelaria\nPamena\nPamidimarru Gramam\nPamidimukkala\nPamidipadu\nPaminivandlavooru\nPampadum Shola National Park\nPamulapadu\nPamulaparthi Sadasiva Rao\nPan bazar\nPanabaka Lakshmi\nPanagal Museum\nPanagal, Nalgonda district\nPancha Bhoota Stalam\nPanchacharyas\nPancharama Kshetras\nPancharamalu\nPanchavati High School\nPanchayat Yuva Krida Aur Khel Abhiyan\nPanda Punnaiah\nPandalapaka\nPandavani\nPandikona\nPandit Deendayal Upadhyay Medical College\nPandit Nehru Bus Station\nPandurangapuram\nPangidipalle\nPangili\nPanineeya dental college\nPannur\nPanyam\nPanyam (Assembly constituency)\nPapadu\nPapagni River\nPapannapet\nPaparao Public School\nPapi Hills\nPappala Chalapathirao\nPappu Venugopala Rao\nParadarami\nParakal\nParasuchus\nParchur\nParchur (Assembly constituency)\nPardhan language\nPargi (Assembly constituency)\nParigi, Anantapur\nParikipandla Narahari \nParitala\nParitala Ravindra\nParitala Sunitha\nParkal\nParkal (Assembly constituency)\nParkwood School International\nParnasala\nParsigutta\nPārśva\nParthasarathy (Parthu)\nParthasarathy Reddy\nParuchuri\nParugu\nParupalli Kashyap\nParupalli Ramakrishnayya Pantulu\nParvathagiri\nParvathapur\nParvathipuram (Lok Sabha constituency)\nParvathipuram (SC) (Assembly constituency)\nParvathipuram railway station\nParyavaran Kavitodyamam\nPasalapudi\nPasmamla\nPasumarru, Guntur district\nPasumarru, Krishna District\nPasupuleti Balaraju\nPasupuleti balaraju\nPasupuleti Kannamba\nPasupuleti Krishna Vamsi\nPasupuleti Ramesh Naidu\nPatancheru\nPatancheru (Assembly constituency)\nPatcha Ramachandra Rao\nPatel Sudhakar Reddy\nPatelguda\nPatha Suryapet\nPathaGollapalle\nPathans in Bihar\nPathans of Gujarat\nPathans of Madhya Pradesh\nPathans of Rajasthan\nPathans of Uttar Pradesh\nPathapatnam (Assembly constituency)\nPatharlapahad\nPathikonda\nPatnam Rajender Reddy Memorial Engineering College\nPatny\nPatrapur\nPatrayani Seetharama Sastry\nPatri Satish Kumar\nPatrudu\nPattabhi\nPattabhirami Reddy Tikkavarapu\nPattikonda\nPattikonda (Assembly constituency)\nPattipati Ramaiah Naidu\nPattiseema\nPattusali\nPaturi Rajagopala Naidu\nPaul Valthaty\nPavani Parameswara Rao\nPavithrotsavam\nPavuluri\nPavurallakonda\nPawan Kalyan\nPayakaraopet (SC) (Assembly constituency)\nPayanam (2011 film)\nPayapur\nPayyavula Keshav\nPeapally\nPebbair\nPeda Avutapalli\nPeda Bondapalli\nPeda Gowda Palem\nPeda Manapuram\nPeda Ogirala\nPedda Bala Siksha\nPedacherlopalle\nPedakadimi\nPedakakani\nPedakallepalli\nPedakapavaram\nPedakurapadu\nPedakurapadu (Assembly constituency)\nPedana (Assembly constituency)\nPedanandipadu\nPedapadu\nPedapalem\nPedapalla\nPedaparupudi\nPedapudi\nPedapudi, Krishna\nPedapulipaka\nPedapulivarru\nPedapulleru\nPedaravur\nPedasanagallu\nPedatadepalli\nPedavadlapudi\nPedavalasa\nPedavegi\nPedayerukapadu\nPedda Adiserla Pally\nPedda Amberpet\nPedda Bandaraviryala\nPedda Elikicherla\nPedda Golkonda\nPedda Gopathi\nPedda kadabur\nPedda Komera\nPedda Korpole\nPedda Kothapalle\nPedda Orampadu\nPedda Porla\nPedda Shapur\nPedda Tupra\nPeddakarpamula\nPeddamanagalaram\nPeddamandadi\nPeddamma temple\nPeddamudium\nPeddapalle\nPeddapalle (Assembly constituency)\nPeddapalli (Lok Sabha constituency)\nPeddapally\nPeddapappur\nPeddapur\nPeddapuram\nPeddapuram (Assembly constituency)\nPeddapuram Mandal\nPeddavadugur\nPeddaved\nPeddavoora\nPeddemul\nPeddullapalli\nPedha Thandrapadu\nPeepalpahad\nPeeram Cheruvu\nPeerzadiguda\nPeesapati Narasimha Murty\nPegadapally\nPeketi Sivaram\nPembarthi Metal Craft\nPemmasani Nayaks\nPemmasani Ramalinga Nayudu\nPemmasani Timmanayudu\nPenagalur\nPenamakuru\nPenamaluru\nPenamaluru (Assembly constituency)\nPench Kanhan Coalfield\nPenchalakona\nPendekanti Law College\nPendlimarri\nPendurru\nPendurthi (Assembly constituency)\nPendyala Harikrishna\nPendyala Nageswara Rao\nPenikeru\nPenna Ahobilam\nPennalurpet\nPennepalli\nPenner River\nPenpahad\nPentakota\nPentapadu\nPenubalakala\nPenuballi\nPenuganchiprolu\nPenugonda\nPenukonda\nPenukonda (Assembly constituency)\nPenukonda train collision\nPenumalli Madhu\nPenumantra\nPeople's College of Medical Sciences and Research\nPeople's Encounter\nPeople's War Group\nPeople's war\nPerali\nPeravali\nPeravaram\nPericchedi\nPerini Shivatandavam\nPeriyar E. V. Ramasamy\nPeriyavaram\nPernamitta\nPerugu Siva Reddy\nPerumandla Sankeesa\nPerur, Nalgonda\nPeruru, India\nPesarattu\nPesaravai\nPet Basheerabad\nPeter Sugandhar\nPeteru\nPhalanta phalantha\nPhallus\nPhanigiri\nPhataphat Jayalaxmi\nPhirangipuram\nPicharagardha\nPileru\nPileru (Assembly constituency)\nPillalamarri\nPinakini Express\nPinapaka\nPinapaka (ST)(Assembly constituency)\nPinapaka Pattinagar\nPinapalla\nPingali Lakshmikantam\nPingali Nagendrarao\nPingali Suranna\nPingali Venkayya\nPippara\nPiridi\nPisal Banda\nPitcheswara Rao Atluri\nPithapuram\nPithapuram (Assembly constituency)\nPithapuram Nageswara Rao\nPithunda\nPitta\nPittalavanipalem\nPittampally\nPlatinum Jubilee High School, Warangal\nPlumbago\nPochampalli\nPochampally Sari\nPocharam Forest & Wildlife Sanctuary\nPocharam lake\nPocharam Srinivas Reddy\nPochavaram\nPochera Falls\nPochiah Krishnamurthy\nPodapadu\nPodili\nPoduru\nPokkunny\nPokkunuru\nPolaaram\nPolasa\nPolavaram (ST)(Assembly constituency)\nPolavaram Project\nPolepalli\nPolice IT\nPolitical integration of India\nPolitics of Telangana\nPolkampalle\nPolkampally\nPoluru\nPolygars\nPonaka Kanakamma\nPonduru\nPonduru, Prakasam\nPonganalu\nPonguleti Sudhakar Reddy\nPonnal\nPonnala Lakshmaiah\nPonnaluru\nPonnam Prabhakar Goud\nPonnar Shankar (film)\nPonnekallu\nPonnur\nPonnuru (Assembly constituency)\nPonugode\nPonugupadu\nPoojashree Venkatesha\nPoonam Kaur\nPoondi Madha Basilica\nPoondla\nPoornima (Telugu actress)\nPootharekulu\nPorandla\nPoranki\nPorumamilla\nPosani Krishna Murali\nPostal Index Number\nPothaipalle\nPothana\nPothareddy palli\nPothireddypadu Reservoir\nPothireddypally\nPothugal\nPothukurru\nPothuluri Veerabrahmam\nPothumarru\nPothunuru\nPotla Nageswara Rao\nPotladurthi\nPottemvari palli\nPotti Sreeramulu\nPotti Sreeramulu Telugu University\nPotti Sriramulu College of Engineering & Technology\nPotturi Venkateswara Rao\nPotturi Vijayalakshmi\nPotuluri Virabrahmendra Swami\nPowerloom Workers Union\nPR Government College Kakinada\nPrabhas\nPradesh\nPragada Kotaiah\nPragadavaram\nPragathi Nagar\nPrahlada\nPraja Rajyam Party\nPrajasakti\nPrajateerpu\nPrakasam\nPrakasam Barrage\nPrakasam district\nPrakasam Stadium\nPrakash Nagar\nPranahita Chevella lift irrigation scheme\nPranhita River\nPranitha Vardhineni\nPrapancham Sitaram\nPrasad Murella\nPrasad V. Bharatam\nPrasad Vara Potluri\nPrasanthi Nilayam\nPrashanthi hills\nPratap Singaram\nPrateeksha Kashi\nPrathap C. Reddy\nPrathipadu (Assembly constituency)\nPrathipadu (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nPrathipadu, East Godavari district\nPrathipadu, Guntur district\nPrathivadhi Bhayankaram Annangaracharya\nPrathyusha\nPraveen K. L.\nPraveen Kumar Reddy\nPre-2004 Telangana protests\nPrema Narayan\nPriva\nPriya Agraharam\nPriya Anand\nPriyadarshini High School\nPriyadarshini Ram\nPriyanka Dutt\nProddatur\nProdduturu\nProgressive Democratic Students Union\nPuchalapalli Sundaraiah\nPudimadaka\nPudivada\nPuducherry \nPudur, Ranga Reddy\nPulakesi I\nPulaparru\nPulaparthi\nPuli (2010 film)\nPuli (soundtrack)\nPulicat Lake\nPulicat Lake Bird Sanctuary\nPulichinthala Project\nPulidindi\nPulihora\nPulimamidi Rabindra Reddy\nPulimeru\nPulipalupula\nPulivendla (Assembly constituency)\nPulivendula\nPuliyogare\nPulkal\nPullampeta\nPullela Gopichand\nPulletikurru\nPullur\nPune – Secunderabad Shatabdi\nPune Station Bus Stand\nPunganur (Assembly constituency)\nPunganur cattle\nPunjab, India\nPunjagutta\nPunnelu\nPunugodu\nPuppalguda\nPuritipenta\nPurli\nPurnima Rau\nPuroshottam Choudhary\nPusapati Vijayarama Gajapati Raju\nPushpaka Brahmin\nPuthalapattu (SC) (Vidan Sabha constituency)\nPuthumbaka Bharathi\nPuthumbaka Venkatapathi\nPutlacheruvu\nPutlur\nPutpak\nPuttanavari Palli\nPuttaparthi (Assembly constituency)\nPuttaparthi\nPuttur Narasimha Nayak\nPuvvula Suri Babu\nPVR Cinemas\nPydimarri Venkata Subba Rao\n\nQidwai\nQueensland Telugu Association\nQutb Shahi dynasty\nQutubuddinguda\n\nR. Chandrasekhar\nR. G. Chandramogan\nR. V. S. Peri Sastri\nR.B.Kothuru\nR.Pampalli\nR.V. College of Engineering\nRaa (film)\nRaavu Balasaraswathi\nRacchabanda\nRachakonda\nRachakonda Viswanatha Sastry\nRachcha\nRacherla\nRadha Krishna Nagar\nRadical Students Union\nRadical Youth League\nRagannaguda\nRaghava Reddy\nRaghavendra Swami\nRaghu Babu\nRaghu Engineering College\nRaghu Kunche\nRaghu Ram\nRaghunandan Rao\nRaghunathpalle\nRaghupathi Venkaiah Award\nRaghupathi Venkaiah Naidu\nRaghupathi Venkataratnam Naidu\nRahimkhanpet, Nalgonda district\nRahman (actor)\nRaigiri, Nalgonda district\nRaikal Salankayana\nRailway Koduru\nRainwater harvesting\nRaipally, Nalgonda district\nRaiparthy\nRaipole\nRaj Bhavan Road\nRaj News\nRaja Abel\nRaja Babu (actor)\nRaja Bollaram\nRaja of Muktyala\nRaja Raja Chola I\nRajah R.S.R.K. Ranga Rao College\nRajahmundry\nRajahmundry (Lok Sabha constituency)\nRajahmundry Airport\nRajahmundry City (Assembly constituency)\nRajahmundry railway station\nRajahmundry Rural (Assembly constituency)\nRajahmundry(Rural)\nRajaka\nRajakkapet\nRajalingampet\nRajam (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nRajampalem\nRajampet\nRajampet (Assembly constituency)\nRajampet (Lok Sabha constituency)\nRajanagaram\nRajanagaram (Assembly constituency)\nRajapattai\nRajapet\nRajapulova\nRajashri\nRajasulochana\nRajavolu\nRajavommangi\nRajendra Chola I\nRajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences\nRajendranagar (Assembly constituency)\nRajiv\nRajiv Gandhi Degree College\nRajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences\nRajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Adilabad\nRajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Ongole\nRajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Srikakulam\nRajiv Gandhi International Airport\nRajiv Kanakala\nRajiv Laxman\nRajkot Secunderabad Express\nRajnesh Domalpalli\nRajolibanda Diversion Scheme\nRajpet\nRajpramukh\nRajshree Pathy\nRaju\nRajugudem\nRajula Tallavalasa\nRajupalem, Guntur\nRajupalem, Kadapa\nRaju Zamindaris\nRajya Sabha members from Telangana\nRajyadhikara Party\nRakta Charitra\nRallagudem\nRam Charan Teja\nRam Gopal Varma\nRam Madhav\nRam Pothineni\nRama\nRama Krishna High School, Karimnagar\nRama Navami\nRamabhadrapuram\nRamachandra Naidu Galla\nRamachandrapuram (Assembly constituency)\nRamachandrapuram (BHEL Township)\nRamachandrapuram, East Godavari\nRamachandrapuram, Medak\nRama Deva Raya\nRamadugu\nRamaGardens\nRamagiri, Anantapur\nRamagiri, Chittoor\nRamagundam\nRamagundam (Assembly constituency)\nRamagundam Airport\nRamagundam B Thermal Power Station\nRamagundam Dam\nRamajogayya Sastry\nRamakistapuram Gate railway station\nRamakrishna Badiga\nRamakrishna Mission Beach\nRamakrishna Ranga Rao of Bobbili\nRamakuppam\nRamalingeswara swamy Temple\nRamana (actor)\nRamana Gogula\nRamana Reddy\nRamanakkapeta\nRamannaguda\nRamannapeta\nRamanthapur\nRamanujapur\nRamappa Engineering College\nRamappa Temple\nRamapuram (Venkata Raghava Puram)\nRamapuram, Kadapa\nRamapuram, Nellore\nRamarajulanka\nRamatheertam\nRamatheertham\nRamayampet\nRamayanam Sarveswara Sastry\nRamayapalem\nRamayapatnam\nRambha (actress)\nRambhatla\nRambhatla palem\nRamdaspally\nRamesh Babu\nRamesh Rathod\nRamesh Venkata Sonti\nRameswaram, East Godavari\nRameswaram, Pedapudi Mandal\nRameswaram-Tirupathi Meenakshi express\nRami Reddy (actor)\nRamineni Foundation Awards\nRamlu Komireddi\nRamnagar, Hyderabad\nRamoji Film City\nRamoji Group\nRamoji Rao\nRampachodavaram\nRampachodavaram (ST)(Assembly constituency)\nRampally\nRampally Daira\nRana Daggubati\nRanastalam\nRangampally\nRangampeta\nRangapur, Manchal mandal\nRangapur, Nalgonda\nRangapur, Shabad mandal\nRangaraya Medical College\nRangrez\nRani Gunj\nRani ki vav\nRanjit Shekhar Mooshahary\nRao Gopal Rao\nRapole\nRapolu Ananda Bhaskar\nRaptadu\nRaptadu (Assembly constituency)\nRasalingam\nRasam\nRashmi Gautam\nRashtrakuta Dynasty\nRashtraudha Kavya\nRasool Ellore\nRathipally\nRatnam Concept School\nRatnavaram\nRaulibandha\nRava dosa\nRavali\nRavalkole\nRavela Venkatrao\nRavi Arimilli\nRavi Narayana Reddy\nRavi Prakash\nRavi Teja\nRavi Vallabhaneni\nRavi Varma (actor)\nRavi Varma (actor)\nRavicherla\nRavinuthala\nRavipadu, Nalgonda district\nRavipalli\nRaviryal\nRavitheja Residential High School\nRavivalasa\nRavula Chandra Sekar Reddy\nRavula Suryanarayana Murty\nRavulapadu\nRavulapalem\nRavulapally Khurd\nRaya Bhoopala Patnam\nRayachoti\nRayachoti (Assembly constituency)\nRayadurg\nRayadurg (Assembly constituency)\nRayakuduru\nRayalapur\nRayalaseema\nRayalaseema Thermal Power Station\nRayalaseema University\nRayapati Sambasiva Rao\nRayaprolu Subba Rao\nRayapudi\nRayavaram, East Godavari\nRayavaram, Guntur\nRayavaram, Kadapa\nRayavaram, Mahbubnagar\nRayavaram, Medak\nRayavaram, Prakasam\nRazole (SC) (Assembly constituency)\nRebala\nRebel (2012 film)\nRed corridor\nReddibavi\nReddicherla\nReddigudem\nReddipalli\nReddy\nReddy dynasty\nRegadi Ghanapur\nRegadidoswada\nRegent Diamond\nRegional Economic Intelligence Committee (India)\nRegional Institute of Education\nRegional Meteorological Centre, Chennai\nRegode\nRegonda\nRein Bazar\nRelangi\nRelangi Venkata Ramaiah\nReli language\nReli people\nReliance Digital\nRellivalasa\nRemalle\nRenigunta\nRentapalla\nRenu Sukheja\nRenuka\nRenuka Chowdhury\nRepala\nRepalle\nRepalle (Assembly constituency)\nRepalle Railway Station\nRevati\nRevenue Talati\nRice and curry\nRice\nRimmanapudi\nRISAT-1\nRishi Valley School\n\nRoddam\nRoja (actress)\nRolla, Anantapur\nRollapadu Wildlife Sanctuary\nRoman Catholic Diocese of Eluru\nRoman Catholic Diocese of Guntur\nRompicherla\nRottela Panduga\nRouthulapudi\nRTC X Roads\nRubin Phillip\nRudraksha Pally\nRudraram\nRudravaram, Guntur\nRudravaram, Krishna\nRudravaram, Prakasam\nRudravelly, Nalgonda district\nRudrur\nRupesh Kumar K. T.\nRupkhanpet\nRVR & JC College of Engineering\nRyalamadugu\nRyali\nRyder Devapriam\nRythu bazaar\nRythubandhu\n\nS V Colleges\nS. B. Rao\nS. C. V. Naidu\nS. Hanumantha Rao\nS. Janaki\nS. Jayarama Reddy\nS. M. Arif\nS. M. Laljan Basha\nS. Obul Reddy\nS. P. B. Charan\nS. P. Balasubrahmanyam\nS. P. Sailaja\nS. P. Y. Reddy\nS. R. Nayak\nS. Rajeswara Rao\nS. Sambhu Prasad\nS. Srikanta Sastri\nS. Thaman\nS. V. Krishna Reddy\nS. V. Ranga Rao\nS. Varalakshmi\nSaakshi Siva\nSaandip\nSabarimala\nSabari River\nSabbam Hari\nSabyasachi Mukherjee\nSacred prostitution\nSadasivpet\nSafa Public School\nSafdar Nagori\nSafilguda\nSafilguda railway station\nSagar Dutta Memorial Medical College and Hospital\nSagileru\nSagi Ramakrishnam Raju Engineering College\nSahiti G\nSahnitherium\nSai Baba of Shirdi \nSai Baba Temple, Dilsukhnagar\nSai Kiran\nSai Kumar (actor)\nSai Prathap Annayyagari\nSai Shiva Balaji Mandir, Dharmapuri\nSaibaba Goud\nSaidabad\nSaidabad, Nalgonda district\nSaidapur\nSaifabad\nSaina Nehwal\nSainik School, Korukonda\nSaint Charles English Medium High School\nSaipeta\nSairam Shankar\nSakshi (media group)\nSakshi (newspaper)\nSakshi TV\nSalabat Jung\nSalankayana\nSalar Jung Museum\nSalegudem\nSálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History\nSalur\nSalur Assembly constituency\nSaluva Dynasty\nSamad Fallah\nSamaikyandhra Movement\nSamakotavari palle\nSamalkot railway station\nSamalkota\nSamalonibavi\nSamaritan Residential Schools\nSamata (NGO)\nSamata Express Anjali Devi\nSamavedam Shanmukha Sarma\nSambar (dish) \nSambara\nSambepalle\nSameera Reddy\nSamineni Arulappa\nSamireddy palli\nSammakka Saralamma Jatara\nSampath Kumar D.Y.\nSampath Nandi\nSamrajyam\nSamudrala Raghavacharya\nSamudrala Ramanujacharya\nSamuel Kanaka Prasad\nSamuel S. Day\nSanapalli Lanka\nSanatan Sanstha\nSanathnagar\nSanathnagar (Assembly constituency)\nSanarudravaram\nSanchari Kuruba\nSandepudi\nSandhipudi\nSangala Palli\nSangama Dynasty\nSangam Laxmi Bai\nSanganoni pally\nSangeet Natak Akademi\nSanghi Nagar\nSangupalem Kodur\nSania Mirza\nSanigaram Santosh Reddy\nSanjamala\nSanjeeva Reddy Nagar\nSanjeevaiah Park\nSanjeevaiah Park railway station\nSankaraguptam\nSankarambadi Sundaraachari\nSankharavam\nSankhavaram\nSankranti\nSankurathri Foundation\nSantanutalapadu\nSanthamaguluru\nSanthanuthala padu\nSanthanuthalapadu (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nSantosh Trophy 2001–02\nSantoshnagar\nSapthagiri\nSarada Residential School\nSarada Vidyalayam\nSarada River\nSaradhi Studios\nSarangapani\nSarasanapalli\nSaraswathi Gora\nSaraswathi Kshetramu, Ananthasagar\nSaraswati Dhanwantari Dental College\nSaraswati \nSarath Babu\nSardar Nagar\nSardhana, Medak\nSardine (food)\nSari\nSaripalle\nSarocharu\nSarojini Devi Eye Hospital\nSarojini Naidu Medical College\nSaroornagar\nSaroornagar Lake\nSarvaram\nSarve Satyanarayana\nSarvepalli\nSarvepalli (Assembly constituency)\nSarvepally, Nalgonda district\nSarvey Sathyanarayana\nSasi Merit School\nSasirekha Parinayam\nSastry\nSatamrai\nSatavahana dynasty\nSatavahana Express\nSatavahana University\nSathatha Sri Vaishnava\nSathivada\nSathupalle (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nSathupalli\nSathya Sai Baba movement\nSathya Sai Baba\nSathya Sai Organization\nSathyamangalam Wildlife Sanctuary\nSathyavedu\nSatish Dhawan Space Centre\nSattenapalle (Assembly constituency)\nSattenapalli\nSattenepalle\nSatya Krishnan\nSatya Mahima Dharma\nSatya Prabhakar\nSatyalapadu\nSatyamev Jayate (Season 1)\nSatyanarayanapuram\nSatyavedu (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nSatyawant Mallannah Shrinagesh\nSavalyapuram\nSavara language (Dravidian)\nSavitri (actress)\nSayyadwada\nSayyid Ahmedullah Qadri\nSchool of Planning and Architecture\nSchool of Planning and Architecture, Vijayawada\nSecondary School Certificate\nSecunderabad\nSecunderabad (Assembly constituency)\nSecunderabad (Lok Sabha constituency)\nSecunderabad Cantonment (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nSecunderabad railway station\nSecunderabad Rajdhani Express\nSecunderabad-Nanded Express\nSeema Tapakai\nSeema-Andhra\nSeemantham\nSeethamma Vakitlo Sirimalle Chettu\nSeethanagaram, East Godavari district\nSeetharampet\nSeetharampoor\nSeetharampuram\nSelf Organised Learning Environment\nSemiliguda\nSengunam\nSengunthar\nSeriguda\nSerilingampally\nSerilingampally (Assembly constituency)\nSerudsngo\nSesame oil\nSeshachala\nSeshachalam\nSeshachalam Hills\nSeshadri Express\nSeshulatha Kosuru\nSetteri\nSettur\nSetwin\nSeventh Day Adventist High School, Secunderabad\n\nShabad, Telangana\nShadan College of Engineering and Technology\nShadan Institute Of Medical Sciences\nShadnagar\nShadnagar (Assembly constituency)\nShadow (2013 film)\nShah Diamond\nShahi jamia masjid\nShakambhari\nShakeela\nShakthiDass\nShakti Peethas\nShaktism\nShalibanda\nShaligowraram\nShambunipet\nShamirpet Lake\nShamshabad\nShankar Dayal Sharma\nShankar Pamarthy\nShankarapeta Kesavapatnam\nShankarapur\nShankarpalli\nShankarpally\nShanker Mutt\nShanthi Nagar\nShantinagar Bus Station\nShantipriya (actress)\nShahpura, Telangana\nSharma\nSharmila Tagore\nShaukat Kaifi\nShayan Italia\nSheik Chinna Moulana\nSheik Mahaboob Subhani\nShekar\nShekar Basha\nShekhar Dutt\nShendra – Bidkin Industrial Park\nShendra MIDC\nSheriguda\nShermuhammadpuram\nShirdi \nShirpur\nShisha (embroidery)\nShitab Khan\nShiva Nageswara Rao\nShiva Reddy\nShivabalayogi\nShivam Road\nShivampet\nShivarampally\nShivlal Yadav\nShobha Naidu\nShobha Raju\nShobu Yarlagadda\nShrauta\nShri GuruCharitra\nShri Krishnavataram\nShri Ramachandra Bhanj Medical College\nShri Vasantrao Naik Government Medical College\nShripad Amrit Dange\nShripad Shri Vallabha\nShrivallabh Vyas\nShyampet\nSiddana konduru\nSiddareddy Palem\nSiddayya Gari Matham\nSiddha Vinayaka\nSiddhapuram, Nalgonda district\nSiddhartha Medical College\nSiddi Raju Kandriga\nSiddipet\nSiddipet (Assembly constituency)\nSiddipet (Lok Sabha constituency)\nSidh community\nSidhout\nSileru River\nSilk Smitha\nSilver Filigree of Karimnagar\nSilver Jubilee Government Degree College\nSilver Oaks – The School of Hyderabad\nSimha Varman II\nSimhachalam\nSimhadri\nSimhadri Super Thermal Power Plant\nSimhadripuram\nSimhapuri Express\nSimhavishnu\nSindhi colony\nSindhura Gadde\nSingaluru\nSingam\nSinganamala\nSinganamala (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nSinganamala Ramesh\nSinganapalem\nSinganna Palem\nSingapore Township, Hyderabad\nSingapur, Adilabad\nSingarakonda\nSingaram\nSingaram, Nalgonda district\nSingarayakonda\nSingareni Collieries Company\nSingareni Collieries Employees Union\nSingareni Workers Union\nSingeetam Srinivasa Rao\nSinger Usha\nSingupalem\nSingur Dam\nSingur Reservoir\nSirala\nSirasri\nSircilla\nSircilla (Assembly constituency)\nSirigiripur\nSirikonda\nSirimanothsavam\nSiripudi\nSiripuram, Nalgonda district\nSirisinagandla\nSirivada\nSironcha\nSirpur\nSirpur (Assembly constituency)\nSirugudal\nSirumathur Kudikadu\nSirvel\nSisters of St. Joseph\nSistla Venkata Lakshmi Narasimha Rao\nSitanagaram\nSitaphalmandi\nSitaphalmandi railway station\nSitara TV\nSitaram Bagh temple\nSITE Engineering College\nSiva S. Banda\nSivadavalasa\nSivala, East Godavari district\nSivaramapuram\nSivaRamaPuram\nSKP Degree College\nSKU College of Engineering and Technology\nSmita\nSmitha Madhav\nSMVM Polytechnic, Tanuku\nSnake \nSnakes and Ladders\nSnow World\nSobhan Babu\nSobhita Dhulipala\nSocialist Unity Centre of India (Communist)\nSociety for Elimination of Rural Poverty\nSoftware Technology Parks of India\nSohrabuddin Sheikh fake encounter\nSolipet\nSolipur\nSomajiguda\nSomalinga Palem\nSomandepalle\nSomaram\nSomarama\nSomarapu Satyanarayana\nSomasila History of Madras Presidency\nSomavaram\nSomeswaram\nSompeta\nSona Masuri\nSonia Deepti\nSonti Dakshinamurthy\nSonti Kamesam\nSora language\nSora people\nSorlagondi\nSoumya Bollapragada\nSouth Asian Stone Age\nSouth India\nSouth Indian culture\nSouth Indian culture\nSowcar Janaki\nSpathodea\nSPNRC High School\nSPI Cinemas\nSravana Bhargavi\nSree Anantha Padmanabha College\nSreekanth Vanga\nSree Kavitha Engineering College\nSree Vidyanikethan Engineering College\nSreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology\nSreerangapuram\nSreerangavaram\nSree Vidyanikethan Educational Trust\nSri Avadhuth Kasinayana\nSri Balaji Temple, T. Nagar\nSri Bharati Tirtha\nSri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Station\nSri Kalahastheeswara Institute of Technology\nSri Kantha Krishnamacharyulu\nSrikanth Kidambi\nSri Kodandaramaswami Temple\nSri Kommineni\nSri Krishna Devaraya Andhra Bhasha Nilayam\nSri Krishna Rayabaram\nSri Krishnadevaraya University\nSri Kurmam\nSri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple, Antarvedi\nSri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple, Karimnagar district\nSri Lakshmi Prasanna Pictures\nSri Lankan Gypsy people\nSri Lankans in India\nSri M\nSri Mani\nSripada Yellampalli project\nSri Padmavati Mahila Visvavidyalayam\nSri Pavuluri Subbarao Public School\nSri Ponna\nSri Potti Sri Ramulu Nellore district\nSri Raja Rajeshwara temple\nSri Rajarajeswari Peetam\nSri Ramadasu\nSri Ramakrishna Vidyashala\nSriranga I\nSriranga II\nSriranga III\nSri Ranganathaswamy Temple, Hyderabad\nSri Ranganathaswamy Temple, Nellore\nSri Rangapuram\nSri Sai Jyothi Engineering College\nSri Sai P.G. College\nSri Sai Vidya Niketan High School\nSri Sai Vidyanikethan School, Adapur \nSri Sarada Institute of Science and Technology\nSri Sathya Sai Airport\nSri Sathya Sai Higher Secondary School\nSri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Puttaparthi\nSri Sathya Sai University\nSri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar\nSri Simhachala Kshetra Mahima\nSri Singha\nSri Sri Nookambika Ammavari Temple\nŚrī Sūkta\nSri Vengamamba Perantalu\nSri Venkateshwaraa Medical College Hospital and Research Centre\nSri Venkateswara Cine Chitra\nSri Venkateswara College of Engineering Technology, Chittoor\nSri Venkateswara College of Engineering, Tirupati\nSri Venkateswara Creations\nSri Venkateswara Hindu College of Engineering, Machilipatnam\nSri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences\nSri Venkateswara Institute of Science & Information Technology\nSri Venkateswara Junior College\nSri Venkateswara National Park\nSri Venkateswara Public School\nSri Venkateswara University\nSri Venkateswara Zoological Park\nSri Viswa Viznana Vidya Adhyatmika Peetham\nSri Y N College\nSribhashyam Appalacharyulu\nSricity\nSridhara (surname)\nSriharikota \nSrikakulam\nSrikakulam (Lok Sabha constituency)\nSrikakulam district\nSrikakulam, Krishna\nSrikalahasti\nSrikalahasti (Assembly constituency)\nSrikalahasti Temple\nSrikrishna committee's involvement in the Telangana movement\nSrilamanthula Chandramohan\nSriman (actor)\nSrinagar colony\nSrinatha\nSrini Raju\nSrinivas\nSrinivas Avasarala\nSrinivas Reddy\nSrinu Vaitla\nSripada Krishnamurty Sastry\nSripada Pinakapani\nSripada Yellampalli project\nSriraj Ginne\nSriram Sagar Project\nSriram Sagar Reservoir\nSriramapura\nSrirampur Colony\nSriranjani, Jr.\nSrisailam\nSrisailam (Assembly constituency)\nSrisailam Dam\nSrisailam Project (RFC) Township\nSrisailamgudem Devasthanam\nSrungarapuram\nSrungavarapukota (Assembly constituency)\nSt Paul's High School, Hyderabad\nSt. Ann's High School, Secunderabad\nSt. Gabriel's High School\nSt. John's High School, Siddipet\nSt. John's Medical College\nSt. John's Regional Seminary\nSt. Josephs High School (Trimulgherry)\nSt. Martin's Engineering College\nSt. Mary's College of Engineering and Technology\nSt. Mary's High School, Secunderabad\nSt. Patrick's High School, Secunderabad\nSt. Peters Central Public School\nSt. Peter's Engineering College, Hyderabad\nStanley Girls High School\nStanley Stephen College of Engineering & Technology\nState Assembly elections in India, 2004\nState Bank of Hyderabad\nState Board of Technical Education and Training\nState Central Library, Hyderabad\nState governments of India\nStates of India by Telugu speakers\nStates of India by Urdu speakers\nStates Reorganisation Act\nStates Reorganisation Act, 1956\nStates Reorganisation Commission\nStephen Raveendra\nSthambampally\nSthanam Narasimha Rao\nStone skipping\nStreet children in India\nStudents' Federation of India\nStudio N\nStupa \nSubbaraju\nSubhashni Giridhar\nSuchitra Center\nSudarshan Akarapu\nSuddala Ashok Teja\nSuddala Hanmanthu\nSudeepa Pinky\nSudheer Babu\nSudi\nSugguna lanka\nSuhani Kalita\nSukumar\nSullurpeta\nSullurpeta (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nSultan Salahuddin Owaisi\nSultanabad, Karimnagar\nSultanpally\nSulthanpoor\nSulur Air Force Base\nSuma Kanakala\nSuman (actor)\nSuman Setty\nSumanth\nSun Temple, Modhera\nSundeep Kishan\nSundhi\nSunil (actor)\nSunitha Varma\nSunkara Balaparameswara Rao\nSunkara Venkata Adinarayana Rao\nSunkesula\nSunket\nSunki\nSunnam Rajaiah\nSunnundallu\nSunrisers Hyderabad\nSuper (2010 Indian film)\nSuper Star (2002 film)\nSurabhi Kamalabai\nSurabhi (theater group)\nSurampalli\nSurangal\nSuraram, Nalgonda district\nSuraram, Ranga Reddy district\nSuravaram Pratapareddy\nSuravaram Sudhakar Reddy\nSurbiryal, Nizamabad\nSureddipalem\nSurekha (actress)\nSurekha Vani\nSurender Reddy\nSurendra Babu\nSuresh (actor)\nSuresh Gopi\nSuresh P Kumar\nSuresh Shetkar\nSuri Bhagavantam\nSurname\nSurya\nSuryakantham (actress)\nSuryalanka Beach\nSuryapet\nSuryaraopeta\nSusarla Dakshinamurthi\nSushama Reddy\nSushanth\nSUT Academy of Medical Sciences\nSuthi Veerabhadra Rao\nSuthivelu\nSVBC TV\nSVIST\nSwakula Sali\nSwami Jnanananda\nSwami Pranavananda Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital\nSwami Ramanand Tirtha\nSwami Ramananda Tirtha Institute of Science & Technology\nSwami Vivekananda Institute of Technology\nSwamulavaari Lingotam\nSwamy Goud\nSwapna Sundari (dancer)\nSwarnamukhi\nSwarnandhra College of Engineering and Technology\nSwathi (actress)\nSwati Mutyam\nSwati Reddy\nSyed Ahmed (politician)\nSyed Ahmed Quadri\nSyed Ali Akbar\nSyed Altafuddin Ahmed\nSyed Asif Quadri\nSyed Azeez Pasha\nSyed Mahmood Naqvi\nSyed Quadri\nSyed Shah Afzal Biabani\nSyedmalkapur\nSyedpally\n\nT. Chalapathi Rao\nT G Venkatesh\nT News\nT Ratna Bai\nT Repaka\nT Venkattram Reddy\nT. B. D. Prakasa Rao\nT. Chowdaravaripalli\nT. Harish Rao\nT. Jeevan Reddy\nT. Lakshmi Kantamma\nT. Nagi Reddy\nT. Naidu Palem\nT. Narayana Rao\nT. Rajaiah\nT. Subbarami Reddy\nT. V. Rao\nT.Narasapuram\nT.R. Prasad\nT.Sundupalle\nT24 Mobile\nTadbund Hanuman temple\nTadepalle, Guntur\nTadepalle, Krishna\nTadepalligudem\nTadepalligudem (Assembly constituency)\nTadigadapa\nTadikonda\nTadikonda (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nTadimarri\nTadiparru\nTadlapalle\nTadoor\nTadpatri\nTadpatri (Assembly constituency)\nTadur Bala Goud\nTadvai\nTalakona\nTalakondapalle\nTalamalla\nTalamarla\nTalari Manohar\nTalatampara\nTallapaka Annamacharya\nTallapaka, India\nTallapaka Tirumalamma\nTallapalle\nTallaproddatur\nTallapudi\nTallaram\nTallasingaram\nTallur\nTalluri Rameshwari\nTalupula\nTalveda\nTamarind\nTamil Arasu Kazhagam\nTamirisa\nTammareddy Krishna Murthy\nTammileru\nTanakal\nTanakallu\nTandur\nTandur (Assembly constituency)\nTandur Test Range\nTangadapalli\nTangadpally\nTangatur\nTangutur\nTanguturi Anjaiah\nTanguturi Prakasam\nTanguturi Suryakumari\nTanikella Bharani\nTanish\nTanjore Nayaks\nTantex\nTanuku\nTanuku (Assembly constituency)\nTapeswaram\nTara D'Souza\nTaraka Ratna\nTarapuram\nTarnaka\nTarrakpur\nTarun Kumar\nTarun Nethula\nTata DoCoMo\nTatapudi\nTatikal\nTatineni Prakash Rao\nTatineni Rama Rao\nTatiparthi\nTatipudi Reservoir\nTattiannaram\nTeegalapahad\nTehsil\nTekkali (Assembly constituency)\nTekmal\nTekulapalli\nTekumatla\nTelaga\nTelakapalli Ravi\nTelangana\nTelangana Board of Intermediate Education \nTelangana Board of Secondary Education \nTelangana Boggu Ghani Karimka Sangham\nTelangana Communist Party\nTelangana Housing Board \nTelangana Janata Party\nTelangana Legislative Council\nTelangana Legislature \nTelangana movement\nTelangana Police \nTelangana Pradesh Congress Committee \nTelangana Praja Front\nTelangana Rashtra Party\nTelangana Rashtra Sadhana Front\nTelangana Rebellion\nTelangana Sadhana Samithi\nTelangana State Election Commission \nTelangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation\nTelangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited\nTelangana State Sports School\nTelangana Tourism Development Corporation \nTelangana University\nTelaprolu\nTelephone numbers in India\nTelia Rumal\nTelkapalle\nTellabally\nTellapadu\nTelugu (Unicode block)\nTelugu Brahmins\nTelugu Cholas\nTelugu Christian\nTelugu Cinema Charitra\nTelugu Cinema Vythalikulu\nTelugu cuisine\nTelugu Desam Party\nTelugu folk literature\nTelugu Ganga project\nTelugu grammar\nTelugu language policy\nTelugu language\nTelugu literature\nTelugu Naadi (magazine)\nTelugu people\nTelugu poetry\nTelugu script\nTelugu wedding ceremony\nTelugus in India\nTemples of Telangana\nTenali\nTenali (Assembly constituency)\nTenali (Lok Sabha constituency)\nTenali Engineering College\nTenali railway station\nTenglish\nTenneti Hemalata\nTenneti Viswanadham\nTernekal\nTetagunta\nThadivalasa\nThagarapuvalasa\nThagubothu Ramesh\nThakkalapalli Purushothama Rao\nThakkallaPally\nThakur Ram Lal\nThalapula Palli\nThallacheruvu\nThallamapuram\nThallapalliguda\nThallarevu\nThallavellamla\nThallur\nThalpunoor\nThamballapalle (Assembly constituency)\nThangallapally\nThanjavur Nayak kingdom\nThapar Vidya Vihar\nTharamatipet\nThathaiah Kalva\nThatiparthy\nThazhamon Madom\nTheatre Outreach Unit\nThe Grand Trunk Express \nThe Immortals of Meluha\nThe New Indian Express\nThe Insider (Rao novel)\nThe Oath of the Vayuputras\nThe Palmetum, Malakpet\nThe Peepal Grove School\nThe Secret of the Nagas\nThe Siasat Daily\nThemidithapadu\nThengellavarigudem\nTherani\nTheratpally\nThimmaipalli\nThimmaipally\nThimmajipeta\nThimmamma Marrimanu\nThimmampet\nThimmanagar\nThimmarajupally\nThimmasamudram, Kadapa\nThimmasamudram, Prakasam\nThipparthy\nThippavarappadu\nThirumalapur\nThirumalapuram\nThiruvarur Bakthavathsalam\nThogataveera\nThogummi\nTholkatta\nTholu Bommalata\nThondangi\nThondapi\nThondavada\nThondavaram\nThondur\nThota Chandu\nThota Tharani\nThota Vaikuntam\nThotada\nThotapally\nThotaravulapadu\nThoti\nThotlakonda\nThotlavalluru\nThousand Pillar Temple\nThukkapur\nThumbavi\nThumkunta\nThummala Nageswara Rao\nThummalapenta\nThungathurthi (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nThungathurthy\nThupra Khurd\nThurakapalem\nThurkaguda\nTilaknagar\nTimeline of Guntur\nTimeline of the Karavas\nTimeline of the Naxalite-Maoist insurgency\nTippaiguda\nTirumala Deva Raya\nTirumala Dhruva Bera\nTirumala Krishna Idol\nTirumala limniace\nTirumala Rama Idol\nTirumala septentrionis\nTirumala Shanivaralu\nTirumala Tirupati Devasthanams\nTirumala\nTirumala Venkateswara Temple\nTirumalapur\nTirumalasetti Suman\nTirumalayapalem\nTirupati (Assembly constituency)\nTirupati (city)\nTirupati (Lok Sabha constituency)\nTirupati (NMA)\nTirupati (Peddapuram)\nTirupati Airport\nTirupati Main railway station\nTirupati Venkata Kavulu\nTiruvuru\nTiruvuru (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nTitan Aviation India\nTitti (bagpipe)\nTobacco\nTokkudu Billa\nTolichowki\nTondaiman\nTondapally\nTondpalli\nToole Khurd\nToopran\nToopranpet\nTottempudi Gopichand\nTourism in Telangana\nTrailanga Swami\nTrain Transit in Guntur\nTransmission Corporation of Telangana\nTribhanga\nTrimulgherry\nTripura (Telugu author)\nTripuraneni Ramaswamy\nTripurantakam\nTripuraram\nTripuraribhatla Ramakrishna Sastry\nTriumfetta rhomboidea\nTrivikram Srinivas\nTsundur\nTuggali\nTukkuguda\nTulasi (film)\nTulekalan\nTulla Devender Goud\nTuluva Dynasty\nTummalacheruvu\nTummalapalem\nTummalapalle uranium mine\nTummaloor\nTummapudi\nTumrukota\nTungabhadra Dam\nTungabhadra River\nNandi (bull)\nTunglam\nTuni\nTuni (Assembly constituency)\nTunikipadu\nTurakapally\nTurk Jamat\nTurkapally\nTurkayamjal\nTurpu Kapu\nTurupu Pakalu\nTurupupalli\nTV1 (India)\nTV5 (India)\nTV9 (Telugu)\nTwenty four Manai Telugu Chettiars\nTyagaraja\nTyphoon Gay (1989)\n\nU. Aswathanarayana\nUbalanka\nUceku\nUday Kiran\nUdayagiri (Assembly constituency)\nUddemarri\nUdden Gadda\nUgadi \nUgra Srinivasa\nUjjaini Mahakali Temple\nUjjelli\nUlava charu\nUlavapadu\nUlavapalli\nUma Gajapathi Raju\nUma Maheswara Rao Devineni\nUma Pemmaraju\nUmapur\nUma Rama Rao\nUmamaheshwaram\nUmmareddy Venkateswarlu\nUndavalli caves\nUndi\nUndi (Assembly constituency)\nUndrajavaram\nUnguturu (Assembly constituency)\nUnguturu, Krishna district\nUnguturu, West Godavari district\nUnited Progressive Alliance\nUnity Centre of Communist Revolutionaries of India (Marxist–Leninist) (D. V. Rao)\nUnity Centre of Communist Revolutionaries of India (Marxist–Leninist)\nUniversity College of Commerce & Business Management\nUpendra (film)\nUppada\nUppalaguptam\nUppalapadu\nUppalaphad\nUpparapalle\nUppariguda\nUpper Dharmaram Formation\nUpper Sileru Project Site Camp\nUppuguda\nUppugundur\nUppuluri Mallikarjuna Sarma\nUppunuthala\nUravakonda\nUravakonda (Assembly constituency)\nUrdu movement\nUrdu \nUrmila Singh\nUsha Nagisetty\nUsha Rama College of Engineering and Technology\nUshasri\nUthukottai\nUtkoor\nUttarapalli\nUtukur\nUyyalawada\n\nV. B. Rajendra Prasad\nV. E. Christopher\nV. Eshwaraiah\nV. Gopi Krishna\nV. Hanumantha Rao\nV. Jayashankarr\nV. Kopperapadu\nV. N. Reddy\nV. R. Kota\nV. Rama Rao\nV. Ramachandra Reddy\nV. Ramarathnam\nV. S. Ramadevi\nV. S. Sampath\nV. Srinivas Mohan\nV. V. Giri\nV. V. Rajendra Kumar\nV. V. Vinayak\nVaanam\nVada (food)\nVadama\nVadapalli\nVadapally\nVaddangi \nVaddemgunta\nVaddepalli Narsing Rao\nVaddera\nVadla Ramapuram\nVadlamuru\nVadlur\nVaibhav Reddy\nVaidiki Brahmins\nVailasingaram\nVainu Bappu\nVaishnavi Institute of Technology\nVaivaka\nVajrakarur\nVakkalagadda\nVakkantham Vamsi\nVakkapatlavari Palem\nVakkom Purushothaman\nVala Chakradhar Rao\nValaparla\nValasapalle\nValigonda\nValiveru\nVallabhapuram\nVallabhapuram, Nalgonda district\nVallampally\nVallapuram\nVallipuram\nVallur\nValluri Srinivasa Rao\nValu Thimmapuram\nVamsy\nVanamali\nVanam Vari Krishnapuram\nVanapamula\nVanara \nVanasthalipuram\nVandemataram Srinivas\nVangapandu Prasada Rao\nVangara Venkata Subbaiah\nVangaveeti Mohana Ranga\nVangibath\nVangoor\nVanisri\nVanitha TV\nVanjari (caste)\nVankai\nVankayala\nVannali\nVANPIC\nVaralakshmi Vratham\nVararamachandrapuram\nVaravara Rao\nVardhaman College of Engineering\nVarhadi dialect\nVarikuntapadu\nVarikuppala Yadagiri Goud\nVarshakonda\nVarun Sandesh\nVasanth & Co\nVasanthapuram\nVasanthavada\nVasapuram\nVasavi College of Engineering\nVasavi Mahila Kalasala\nVasireddy Sri Krishna\nVasireddy Venkatadri Nayudu\nVasu Varma\nVasuki Sunkavalli\nVatadage\nVatsavai\nVatticherukuru\nVattigudipadu\nVattinagulapally\nVauhini Studios\nVavilala\nVavilla Ramaswamy Sastrulu\nVayudoot\nVedakumar Manikonda\nVeda Sastry\nVedavathi River\nVedurupaka\nVeenavanka\nVeepangandla\nVeera Abhaya Anjaneya Hanuman Swami\nVeeraballe\nVeeraballi\nVeerabhadram Chowdary\nVeerabhadra Temple, Lepakshi \nVeeranatyam\nVeerannapalem\nVeerannapeta\nVeerapunayunipalle\nVeerlapalem\nVeerullapadu\nVengalayapalem\nVegayammapeta\nVegetable Market Workers Union\nVejendla\nVelagadurru\nVelagaleru\nVelagapudi Ramakrishna\nVelagapudi Ramakrishna Siddhartha Engineering College\nVelama\nVelanati Chodas\nVelavali\nVeldanda\nVeldurthi\nVeldurthy\nVeleru\nVelerupadu\nVelgatoor\nVelgode\nVelgonda, Karimnagar\nVeligandla\nVeliminedu\nVellampalli Srinivas\nVellulla\nVelmakanne\nVelpuru\nVeltoor\nVelugupalli Annaram\nVeluri Venkata Krishna Sastry\nVemana\nVempa\nVempadu\nVempalle\nVempatapu Satyanarayana\nVempati Chinna Satyam\nVempati Sadasivabrahmam\nVemsoor\nVemula\nVemulapalli\nVemulapally\nVemulawada, East Godavari District\nVemulawada (Assembly constituency)\nVemuri Gaggaiah\nVemuru\nVemuru (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nVengapuram\nVengi\nVenkaiah Naidu\nVenkata II\nVenkata III\nVenkatadri\nVenkata raju palem\nVenkata Rajula Kandriga\nVenkatadri Naidu\nVenkatadripuram\nVenkatagiri\nVenkatagiri (Assembly constituency)\nVenkatagiri estate\nVenkatagiri Sari\nVenkatagirikota\nVenkatampalle\nVenkatapati Deva Raya\nVenkatapur\nVenkatapuram, Khammam\nVenkatapuram, Krishna\nVenkatapuram, Kurnool\nVenkateshwarlu\nVenkateswara\nVenkatraopalle\nVenkiryal\nVennela\nVennela Kishore\nVennelakanti\nVennelakanti Raghavaiah\nVentrapragada\nVenu Madhav (actor)\nVenu Thottempudi\nVenugopalpuram\nVeppam\nVernonia\nVersions of Ramayana\nVetapalem\nVeturi Prabhakara Sastri\nVeturi Sundararama Murthy\nVicarabad (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nVicente Ferrer Moncho\nVictoria Memorial Home\nVidapanakal\nVidhan Parishad\nVidya Jyothi Institute of Technology\nVidyaben Shah\nVidyanagar\nVidyanagar railway station\nVidyaranya High School\nVidyasagar (music director)\nVigilantism in India\nVignan Engineering College\nVignan Institute of Technology and Aeronautical Engineering\nVignan Institute of Technology and Science\nVignan University\nVignana Jyothi Institute of Management\nVijay Bahuguna\nVijay high school\nVijay Mahajan\nVijay Mary High School\nVijaya Bapineedu\nVijaya Dasa\nVijaya Lakshmi Emani\nVijayachander\nVijayanagara architecture\nVijayanagara Empire\nVijayapuri (North)\nVijayashanti\nVijayawada\nVijayawada (Lok Sabha constituency)\nVijayawada (Rural)\nVijayawada Airport\nVijayawada Central (Assembly constituency)\nVijayawada East (Assembly constituency)\nVijayawada railway station\nVijayawada West (Assembly constituency)\nVijayawada–Chennai section\nVijnana Vihara School\nVikar Ahmed\nVikarabad\nVikas Upadhyay\nVikhar Manzil\nVikram (actor)\nVikrama Simhapuri University\nVikramjeet Malik\nVikrampuri\nVikramshila Gangetic Dolphin Sanctuary\nVikruthamala\nVilasini Natyam\nVillage accountant\nVimalakka\nVinai Thummalapally\nVinay Bhaskar\nVinayakanagar Colony\nVinjanampadu, Guntur\nVinjanampadu, Prakasam\nVinod Kumar Boianapalli\nVinukonda\nVinukonda (Assembly constituency)\nViramachaneni Vimla Devi\nViruvur\nVisakha Express\nVisakha Museum\nVisakha Valley School\nVisakhapatnam - Koraput Intercity Express\nVisakhapatnam – Lokmanyatilak Express\nVisakhapatnam – Secunderabad Duronto Express\nVisakhapatnam – Secunderabad Garib Rath Express\nVisakhapatnam (Lok Sabha constituency)\nVisakhapatnam Airport\nVisakhapatnam district\nVisakhapatnam East (Assembly constituency)\nVisakhapatnam North (Assembly constituency)\nVisakhapatnam Port\nVisakhapatnam railway station\nVisakhapatnam South (Assembly constituency)\nVisakhapatnam West (Assembly constituency)\nVisakhapatnam\nVisakhapatnam–Vijayawada section\nVishal (actor)\nVishalandhra Movement\nVishnu Institute of Technology\nVishnu Manchu\nVishnu Sadashiv Kokje\nVishnu Sree Institute of Technology\nVishnu Vardhan\nVishnuism\nVishnukundina\nVishveshwaraiah \nVishwakarma (caste)\nVishwaroopam\nVisionSpring\nVissa\nVissannapeta\nViswa Bharathi English Medium High School\nViswanatha Satyanarayana\nVithal Rao\nVivek Express\nVivek Oberoi\nVizag back to back HVDC converter station\nVizagapatam District (Madras Presidency)\nVizagapatam Hill Tracts Agency\nVizianagaram\nVizianagaram\nVizianagaram (Assembly constituency)\nVizianagaram (Lok Sabha constituency)\nVizianagaram district\nVizianagaram mandal\nVizianagaram railway station\nVMC Productions\nVokkaliga\nVoletivaripalem\nVontimitta\nVookondi\nVST Industries\nVulimeswaram\nVulimiri Ramalingaswami\nVundavalli Aruna Kumar\nVundela Malakonda Reddy\nVupputur\nVuyalavada Narasimha Reddy\nVyjayanthi Kashi\nVyjayanthi Movies\n\nWaddar language\nWaddepally, Mahbubnagar\nWainganga River\nWaluj MIDC\nWanaparthi\nWanaparthy (Assembly constituency)\nWaqf\nWaradhanapet (SC) (Assembly constituency)\nWarangal\nWarangal (Assembly constituency)\nWarangal (Lok Sabha constituency)\nWarangal Airport\nWarangal district\nWarangal East\nWarangal East (Assembly constituency)\nWarangal Fort\nWarangal train crash\nWarangal West (Assembly constituency)\nWardhannapet\nWargal Saraswati Temple\nWarsiguda\nWatercock\nWattipally\nWazedu\nWest Godavari district\nWestern Chalukya architecture\nWestern Chalukya Empire\nWyra\nWyra (ST)(Assembly constituency)\n\nY. Gadilingana Goud\nY. S. Chowdary\nY. S. Jaganmohan Reddy\nY. S. Rajasekhara Reddy\nY. S. Sharmila\nY. S. Vijayamma\nY. S. Vivekananda Reddy\nY.Ramavaram\nYacharam\nYadagirigutta Temple\nYadamvaripalli\nYadaram\nYadav\nYadavalli Suryanarayana\nYadavilli\nYadavilli (name)\nYadavilli, Kurnool\nYadavuru\nYaddanapudi Sulochana Rani\nYadgarpally\nYadiki\nYaganti\nYagantipalle\nYajurveda\nYakamuru\nYakshagana\nYakutpura\nYakutpura (Assembly constituency)\nYakutpura railway station\nYalal\nYalamanchili Veeranjaneyulu\nYalavarthi Naveen Babu\nYaleeka Gnaneswara Rao\nYallamanda Rao Veerapaneni\nYamini Krishnamurthy\nYamnampet\nYanam\nYanam district\nYanamala Rama Krishnudu\nYanamalakuduru\nYandamuri Veerendranath\nYaperla\nYapral\nYaragudipati Varada Rao\nYarlagadda\nYarlagadda Nayudamma\nYarram Venkateswarareddy\nYashoda Hospitals\nYashoda Naidoo\nYazali\nYbrant Digital\nYeddanapudi\nYedurulanka\nYelamanchili – Konda Kameswara Peta\nYelamanchili (Assembly constituency)\nYeldurthy\nYeleswaram\nYellam palli\nYellamma Thanda\nYellampet\nYellandu (ST)(Assembly constituency)\nYellandu\nYellanur\nYellapragada Subbarao\nYellareddipet\nYellareddy (Assembly constituency)\nYellayapalem\nYellow Flowers\nYellur, Mahbubnagar\nYemanapalli\nYemmiganur\nYemmiganur (Assembly constituency)\nYenadis\nYendluru\nYenkepalle\nYenkepally\nYenumulapalli\nYerrabelli Dayakararao\nYerraboinapalli\nYerrachervu Palli\nYerragondapalem (SC)(Assembly constituency)\nYerragunta\nYerraguntla\nYerramalla\nYerrapragada\nYerrapragada\nYerrasanivari Banjar\nYerrathivaripalli\nYerrupalem\nYeti Gadda Kistapur\nYMK High School\nYogananda Institute of Technology and Science\nYogi (2009 film)\nYogi Vemana University\nYogi Vemana University, Proddatur\n\"Ypthima baldus\"\nYSR Congress Party\nYSR district\nYSR District\nYugander V.V.\nYVS Chowdary\n\nZamigolvepalle\nZamindar\nZanjeer (2013 film)\nZarina Wahab\nZee Telugu\nZilla Parishad High School\nZiziphus\nZornia\nZubaida Tariq\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55404392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55404392", "title": "International Crane Foundation", "text": "International Crane Foundation\n\nThe International Crane Foundation (ICF) is a non-profit conservation organization that works to conserve cranes and the ecosystems, watersheds, and flyways on which they depend. Founded in 1973, the International Crane Foundation is headquartered in Baraboo, Wisconsin on a 250-acre property that includes live crane exhibits with 15 crane species, a visitor center, breeding facilities, a research library and nature trails. The foundation works worldwide and in the US with local partners to raise and conserve cranes. The Foundation maintains a regional base in China and shares program offices with partner organizations in Cambodia, India, South Africa, Texas, Vietnam, and Zambia. The International Crane Foundation's approximately 80 staff work with a network of hundreds of specialists in over 50 countries on five continents.\n\nThe International Crane Foundation was founded in 1973 by two ornithology students at Cornell University, Ron Sauey and George W. Archibald, who envisioned an organization that would combine research, captive breeding and reintroduction, landscape restoration, and education to safeguard the world’s 15 crane species. In 1973, the Sauey family rented their horse farm to Ron and George for $1 a year to found the International Crane Foundation in Baraboo, Wisconsin. The organization moved to its current location in 1983.\n\nArchibald was the organization's director from 1973 to 2000. He pioneered several techniques there to rear cranes in captivity, including the use of crane costumes by human handlers. Archibald spent three years with a highly endangered whooping crane named Tex, acting as a male crane – walking, calling, dancing – to shift her into reproductive condition. Through his dedication and the use of artificial insemination, Tex eventually laid a fertile egg which hatched a chick named Gee Whiz.\n\nThe International Crane Foundation's office in Rockport, Texas was demolished in 2017 by Hurricane Harvey, but will be rebuilt. The office was located near the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge, an area that sustains the last naturally occurring flock of whooping cranes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21351751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21351751", "title": "Italianization of South Tyrol", "text": "Italianization of South Tyrol\n\nIn 1919, at the time of its annexation, the middle part of the County of Tyrol which is today called South Tyrol (in Italian \"Alto Adige\") was inhabited by almost 90% German speakers. Under the 1939 South Tyrol Option Agreement, Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini determined the status of the German and Ladin (Rhaeto-Romanic) ethnic groups living in the region. They could emigrate to Germany, or stay in Italy and accept their complete Italianization. As a consequence of this, the society of South Tyrol was deeply riven. Those who wanted to stay, the so-called \"Dableiber\", were condemned as traitors while those who left (\"Optanten\") were defamed as Nazis. Because of the outbreak of World War II, this agreement was never fully implemented. Illegal Katakombenschulen (\"Catacomb schools\") were set up to teach children the German language.\n\nIn 1923, three years after South Tyrol had been formally annexed, Italian place names, almost entirely based on the \"Prontuario dei nomi locali dell'Alto Adige\", were made official by means of a decree. The German name \"Tyrol\" was banned, likewise its derivants and compound words such as \"Tyrolean\" and \"South Tyrolean\". German newspapers, publishing houses, organized clubs and associations, including the South Tyrolean Alpine Club had to be renamed, with the decree said to have been strictly enforced by Italian \"carabinieri\" on the ground. The basis for these actions was a manifesto published by Ettore Tolomei on July 15, 1923, called the \"Provvedimenti per l'Alto Adige\" (\"Measures for the Alto Adige\"), becoming the blueprint for the Italianization campaign. Its 32 measures were:\n\n\nIn October 1923, the \"use of the Italian language became mandatory on all levels of federal, provincial and local government\". Regulations by the fascist authorities required that all kinds of signs and public notices had to be in Italian only, while maps, postcards and other graphic material had to show Italian place names. In September 1925, Italian became the sole permissible language in courts of law, meaning that cases could be heard from now on only in Italian. The fascist law regulations remained in effect after World War II, becoming a bone of contention for decades until they were eventually reconsidered in the 1990s. \n\nThe German-language press, which was still published, was harassed by the authorities and subjected to censorship prior to publication. In 1926 the fascist authorities began to publish their own German-language newspaper, the \"Alpenzeitung\". Other German-language papers were obliged to follow a strictly pro-regime editorial policy. \n\nThe programme of Italianization was particularly forcefully applied in schools, aiming at the destruction of the German school system. As of 1928, Italian had become the only language of instruction in 760 South Tyrolean classes, affecting over 360 schools and 30,000 pupils. Likewise, German Kindergarten were required to use Italian, while substitutes were forced to shut down. German teachers were systematically dismissed on the grounds of \"insufficient didactics\", or transferred to the south, from where Italian teachers were recruited instead. Degrees from Austrian or German universities became valid only through an additional stay of one year at an Italian university. \n\nIn religious affairs, a royal decree of November 1923 required religious instruction in Italian for all Italianized schools. Fascist calls for the Italianization of German charitable organizations, religious orders and the complete abolition of German religious instruction to the Vatican were not entirely successful, not in the least due to the repeated interventions of the Bishop of Brixen and the setting up of informal Parish schools. In state schools, though, Italian became mandatory for the last five classes, while the use of German was only allowed in teaching the Italian catechism in the first three years. \n\nThe German-speaking population reacted by the establishment of Katakombenschulen (\"catacomb schools\"), clandestine home schools outside the Italianized standard educational system. German schoolbooks were secretly smuggled across the border, often hidden in religious buildings before being distributed to the South Tyroleans pupils. After initial difficulties, secret seminars for the instruction of teachers were organized throughout the province, usually under the protection of the Catholic church. Fascist countermeasures ranged from searches and confiscations to imprisonments and deportations. The balancing act between the instruction in Italian and German schools, where often the exact opposite was taught, especially in history and the social fields, is said to have left many Tyrolean pupils with a torn identity. The newly composed \"Bozner Bergsteigerlied\" quickly became one of South Tyrol's unofficial hymns by celebrating an unbroken attachment of the South Tyroleans to their homeland.\n\nAfter the end of the Second World War, reform processes tolerated the dual use of names on street signs, while the Italian names remain as the official ones, based on the 1940 law.\n\nIn the 1990s, a commission consisting of the Professors Josef Breu (Vienna, representing Austria in the Toponymy commission of the UN), Peter Glatthard (Berne) and Carlo Alberto Mastrelli (Florence, current \"Archivio per l'Alto Adige\") failed as Mastrelli insisted on the fascist decrees, while Breu and Glatthard promoted the UN-Guidelines.\n\n"}
{"id": "24163577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24163577", "title": "Jacob van Deventer (cartographer)", "text": "Jacob van Deventer (cartographer)\n\nJacob Roelofs van Deventer (c. 1500/1505 in Kampen – 1575 in Cologne) was a Dutch cartographer of the Renaissance. He is today best known for his work in systematically cartographing all Dutch towns and cities of his time.\n\nLittle biographical information exists about Jacob van Deventer. His patronage would suggest he was Catholic. Despite his name, he was probably not born in Deventer, but in Kampen in the north of the Netherlands. His mother married a man called Roelof in Deventer in 1510, and Jacob probably grew up there. He first appears in the sources on 24 April 1520, when he enrolled at the University of Leuven under the name of \"Jacobus de Daventria\". On this basis, his date of birth is conjectured to have been around 1500–1505. In Leuven, Jacob's interests were first directed towards medicine and philosophy, but he then began to take an interest in geography and cartography. he later moved to Mechelen, from where in 1572 he relocated to Cologne to flee the upheavals of the Dutch Revolt against the Spanish rule. During his career as a cartographer in the Spanish royal service, he earned himself the title of \"Imperial Cartographer\" from emperor Charles V in 1540 (later changed to that of \"Royal Cartographer\", after the emperor's abdication in 1555).\n\nJacob van Deventer was among the first to make systematic use of triangulation, a technique whose theory was described by his contemporary Gemma Frisius in his 1533 book, \"Libellus de locorum describendorum ratione\". In 1536 he produced a printed map of Brabant, the first such map to be published in the Netherlands. He then launched into an impressive career as a mapmaker. In 1559, he was tasked by King Philip II with the project that was to become his life's work: the systematic cartography of all cities of the Netherlands. The resulting maps were kept unpublished because of their military value. As a result, they later became forgotten and were rediscovered only in the late 19th century.\n\nJacobus van Deventer worked on this monumental project until his death in 1575. In the course of fifteen years, he created between 250 and 260 city maps, covering an area from Friesland to what is today the north of France, and reaching into Luxembourg and the west of Germany.\n\nAll maps were made according to the same scheme, using a scale of c. 1:8,000. Most were made in three versions: the first was a \"minute\" version or first draft of the city in its nearer surroundings, based on topographical data that was collected by surveying on the site, with texts in Dutch. Of these draft versions, 152 were discovered in 1859 in various provincial archives in the Netherlands and in the Royal Library of Brussels. (A number that were kept in Middelburg were later destroyed during World War II and are preserved only as copies).\n\nThe second stage was a \"main chart\" (\"netkaart\" or \"hoofdkaart\"), representing a cleaned-up elaborated version of the previous minute map, with texts in Latin.\n\nA third map, termed a \"bijkaart\" (ancillary chart) was produced that showed only the city itself, without the surroundings. It contains only the fortification works and canals, and the principal buildings and streets. The main charts with their ancillary charts were preserved as a three-volume atlas in the National Library of Madrid. Of this, one volume has been lost; 179 maps are preserved (in addition to 152 drafts).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57550732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57550732", "title": "Jagdal Union", "text": "Jagdal Union\n\nJagdal Union Parishad () is a union council under Derai Upazila of Sunamganj District in the division of Sylhet, Bangladesh.\n\nJagdal Union is located in the north-east corner of Derai Upazila. It is bordered with Dakshin Sunamganj Upazila in the north, Jagannathpur Upazila to the east, Kulanj Union on the south, and Karimpur Union to the west.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24572964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24572964", "title": "Khakaborazi National Park", "text": "Khakaborazi National Park\n\nKhakaborazi National Park () is a national park of Burma. It is located in Naungmung Township in Kachin State. It occupies an area of and was established in 1996. It surrounds Hkakabo Razi, the highest peak in Burma.\n\n"}
{"id": "497016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497016", "title": "List of BBC Radio 4 programmes", "text": "List of BBC Radio 4 programmes\n\nThis is a list of current and former programmes broadcast on BBC Radio 4.\n\nWhen it came into existence – on 30 September 1967 – Radio 4 inherited a great many continuing programme series which had been initiated prior to that date by its predecessor, the BBC Home Service (1939–1967), and in some cases even by stations which had preceded the Home Service. Such inherited programmes are included in the list.\n\nThe years indicated in brackets after programme titles refer to the dates, where known, of each programme's first, subsequent, and final broadcasts – and, in cases where Radio 4 programmes began their run on stations other than the Home Service, the names of those originating stations are also shown.\n\nNote that many of Radio 4's past comedy and drama productions have been, and continue to be repeatedly rerun on Radio 4, as well as on the digital radio channel BBC Radio 4 Extra (previously BBC Radio 7).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44049592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44049592", "title": "List of Byzantine battles", "text": "List of Byzantine battles\n\nThe following is a list of battles fought by the Eastern Roman or Byzantine Empire, from the 6th century AD until its dissolution in the mid-15th century, organized by date. The list is not exhaustive. For battles fought by the Byzantine Empire's Roman predecessors, see List of Roman battles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49556201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49556201", "title": "List of Kud puklo da puklo recurring characters", "text": "List of Kud puklo da puklo recurring characters\n\n\nDon Ante is a priest from Krasinac, a village near Oštrovac. He entered many times in conflict with people from Oštrovac. During season one, he tries to set up Don Mirko with false love letters from \"Mistress\". Later it is revealed that he and Barbara were set up. In season two, Don Ante became a priest for Oštrovac because Mirko became vicar in Vatican. But in episode 96 of season 2, Don Ante returned to Krasinac because Bishop Andrija hired a new priest for Oštrovac.\n\n\nVjeko is a character from Krasinac. He has a brother his name is Mrki. They are always together. And they hate Damir and Josip. In season two of Krasinac Vjeko became a new ranger in the woods with the help of Don Ante, who set up Damir. It is revealed in season two, through the conversation between Milica and Undertaker Stojan, that his uncle's last name is Bokarica.\n\n\nMrki is Vjeko's brother. In season two, it is revealed in a conversation between Vjeko, Mile, Stipe and him that his real name is Zlatko. It is revealed in season two through the conversation between Milica and Undertaker Stojan, his uncle, that his last name is Bokarica.\n\n\nSrećko is Diana's real father. He came to Oštrovac to help Josip with brandy and met Barbara on the street. He followed her to her home and they had sex and Diana caught them. Josip later discovered that Srećko is Diana's father. Later in season one, Srećko is arrested, but in season two, he is released from jail and he returned to Oštrovac, where he found out that he is going to be a grandfather of twins.\n\n\nIvka is Zdenka's mother, Mile's mother-in-law and Damir's grandmother. She was some time in Oštrovac. When she wanted to return to her flat, she was scared by a bear on the street and had a heart attack and died.\n\n\nDenis was Katarina's boyfriend in season one. She broke up with him when she discovered that he faked his broken arm. Later he tried to steal a part of the inherited money with help of his new girlfriend who presented as Marko's second daughter. When that is discovered, they run to Zagreb. From then on, he was neither heard nor seen again.\n\n\nMrs. Milka is an old lady from Oštrovac. She was a temporary president of the board in season one. Later, Mile replaced her and became president for the second time. She died suddenly on Mile's lawnmower.\n\n\nMrs. Ika is an old lady from Oštrovac. She has many sheep, and each of the sheep has a name.\n\n\nStanislav is a criminal who came to Oštrovac to dig up diamonds which he buried. He was the first guest of the hotel. When he was in the bathroom in his suit he was hit by electricity. He staggered to the stairs and fell down them. His body was found by Sveto. Dario and Miranda buried him under the name of Mladen Horvat in episode 2. In episode 88, when Dario tried to sell one diamond Zagreb it seemed to him that he saw late Stanislav. Later is revealed that he is Tina's real father. He wrote will in which Tina got some of his paintings, priced at 650000 kuna's, but she has to marry before 25th birthday, and if she marries before 25th she can't marry the policeman.\n\n\nSuzana is Dario's ex-wife and mother of Sara and Tina. She hates Miranda. She came to Oštrovac to see what Dario is doing and later in season two, she joined in the search for diamonds. In episode 104, she, Miranda, and Dario were arrested by Stipe for selling stolen diamonds.\n"}
{"id": "40164099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40164099", "title": "List of best-selling albums in Austria", "text": "List of best-selling albums in Austria\n\nThis is a list of the best-selling albums in Austria that have been certified by the IFPI. Since January 1, 2013, BVMI certifies an album platinum for the shipment of 15,000 copies across Austria.<ref name=\"Richtlinien für die Verleihung von Gold/Platin Schallplatten und Awards (Guidelines for Gold and Platinum awards)\"></ref>\nAll albums in this list must have been certified for more than 100,000 copies.\n\nCertifications for albums released in Austria depend upon their release date.\n\nAlbums\n"}
{"id": "14891410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14891410", "title": "List of extreme points of China", "text": "List of extreme points of China\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of China, compared both globally and within the country.\n\n\nThe following are all located partially or completely in the Tibet Autonomous Region.\n\n\nThe following are all located partially or completely in the Tibet Autonomous Region.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn 19 December 2012, China extended rail service eastwards to Fuyuan, 17 hours northeast of Harbin.\nLatitude: 48.3639°\nLongitude: 134.2939°\nhttp://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2012-12/19/content_16030755.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "15572485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15572485", "title": "List of honorary citizens of Gyumri", "text": "List of honorary citizens of Gyumri\n\nThe honorary citizen award is the highest decoration of Gyumri (former \"Leninakan\") town, Armenia. Among the recipients are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56273996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56273996", "title": "List of songs about Mumbai", "text": "List of songs about Mumbai\n\nThe following is a list of songs written about Mumbai, the capital city of Maharashtra province of India: \n\n"}
{"id": "22425844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22425844", "title": "Living Reviews in Landscape Research", "text": "Living Reviews in Landscape Research\n\nLiving Reviews in Landscape Research is a peer-reviewed open access scientific review journal covering topics in interdisciplinary domains of landscape ecology. This includes mutual dependencies of land uses, such as: agriculture, forestry, recreation and tourism, nature conservation, as well as the interactions within and among landscape management approaches at various scale and time levels and under different legal and cultural frameworks. It was published by the Leibniz Centre for Agricultural Landscape Research from 2007-2014. The concept of \"Living Reviews\" takes advantage of web-based electronic publishing and allows authors to update their articles with the latest developments and research findings. This journal is also supported by the International Association for Landscape Ecology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1847458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1847458", "title": "Mount Wilhelm", "text": "Mount Wilhelm\n\nMount Wilhelm () is the highest mountain in Papua New Guinea at . It is part of the Bismarck Range and the peak is the point where three provinces, Simbu, Jiwaka and Madang, meet. The peak is also known as \"Enduwa Kombuglu\", or \"Kombugl'o Dimbin\", in the local Kuman.\n\nThe mountain is on the island of New Guinea, which incorporates Papua New Guinea and the Indonesian province of Papua. It is surpassed by Puncak Jaya, , and several other peaks in Indonesian Papua.\n\nMount Wilhelm may be claimed as the highest mountain in Oceania (including Australia and New Zealand), on account of Indonesia being in Asia. A Seven Summits list may therefore sometimes include Mount Wilhelm.\n\nMount Wilhelm received its name in 1888 when a German newspaper correspondent, Hugo Zöller, climbed the Finisterre Range, south-east of Madang, and named the Bismarck Range after the German Chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, and the four highest peaks of the range after him and his children: Ottoberg, Herbert-berg, Marienberg and Wilhelm-berg. Otto-berg seemed to Zöller to be the highest of the range, but it was later discovered to be only and the distant Wilhelmberg was much taller.\n\nIt was not until August 1938 when Leigh Vial, a government patrol officer, and two Niu Ginians, his \"Mangi mastas\", \"Namba Wan Bare Kuakawa\" (Kugl'kane) and \"Gend\" (\"Mondia Nigle\"), made the first recorded ascent. It was noted by Vial that even though the mountain was close to the equator, snow existed on top of the mountain at the time of ascent.\n\nDuring the Second World War in the early hours of May 22, 1944, an American F-7A (a converted B-24 Liberator) named \"Under Exposed\" crashed into the mountain while flying too low. The aircraft left from Nadzab airbase, close to Lae, and had been assigned for a reconnaissance mission to photograph Padaidori Island in Dutch New Guinea. Around 0400 the plane crashed into Wilhelm at about above the twin lakes.\nAll crew were killed and most of the wreckage landed in the topmost lake although some can still be seen today. The only remains at the site are from the plane, as all bodies have been recovered.\n\nA number of people have died trying to climb the mountain. An Australian Army Sergeant, Christopher Donnan, died in December 1971 when he fell down a steep slope. There is a plaque at the point where he was last seen. In August 1995 an Israeli backpacker died after he sprained his ankle and stayed behind while his group continued. He subsequently wandered off the track and fell into a ravine in the pre-dawn darkness. His body was found about a week later. On 30 July 2005 58-year-old Bob Martin, a marketing manager at Air Niugini, suffered a heart attack and died near the summit.\nIn 2001, a student from Muaina High School (Muaina High school Mt Wilhelm Expedition) died at Piunde-foot of Mt Wilhelm. He was later found to be an asthmatic patient. Another, local Papua New Guinean, from Tari in the Southern Highlands Province, died in 2007 a few meters south of the Christopher Donnan plaque. Local sources revealed that the deceased was unaware of the warning and was wearing only his sporting suit, T-shirt and Dunlop shoes. He was covered by debris and fallen rock fragments, forming a talus at the base of the southern tip of the Christopher Donnan section.\n\nMount Wilhelm is the most accessible mountain to climb in Papua New Guinea. Climbers have a choice of two different routes to the top. The most common route starts from the village of Keglsugl at the end of the road from Kundiawa in Simbu province. A harder hike and climb starts from the village of Ambullua in Western Highlands province.\n\nThe Keglsugl route involves climbing up and through a mountain rain forest and then along an alpine grassland glacial valley to the twin lakes of Piunde and Aunde. At Piunde there are two huts, one being an old Australian National University monitoring station and the other an 'A-Frame' hut. Though not a technical climb, various sections can be treacherous in wet weather. The climb is usually started during the night; the ascent and subsequent descent can take anywhere from nine to 24 hours. Reaching the peak at dawn allows a better chance of clear weather.\n\nThe other route from Ambullua is a much more challenging 4-day hike.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52744449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52744449", "title": "Nightscape", "text": "Nightscape\n\nA nightscape or night view is the visible features of an area of landscape as viewed at night.\n"}
{"id": "53600375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53600375", "title": "Oranda-zaka", "text": "Oranda-zaka\n\nOranda-zaka (オランダ坂), also known as the Dutch Slope or Hollander Slope, is a scenic sloping street in the Higashiyamate area of Nagasaki City, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan. Its name is derived from the numerous western, notably Dutch merchants that settled in the area in the second half of the 19th century.\n"}
{"id": "23514869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23514869", "title": "Otis Willard Freeman", "text": "Otis Willard Freeman\n\nOtis Willard Freeman (1889–1964) was an American academic, writer and geographer.\n\nFreeman was the founding President of the Association of Pacific Coast Geographers (APCG); and he was also the first editor of the Yearbook of the Association of Pacific Coast Geographers.\n\nFreeman earned an undergraduate degree Albion College in 1910. He continued his studies, earning a master's degree in science from the University of Michigan in 1913 and post-doctoral work at Northwestern University in 1924. He joined the faculty at the University of Hawaii, which provided an opportunity to research and publish books about the geography of Hawaii. He earned his doctorate from Clark University in 1929.\n\nFreeman's early experience led to a position on the faculty of Eastern Washington University, where he was named Professor of Geology and Geography. In 1951, he became President of Eastern Washington University. He retired from the faculty in 1953.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50762957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50762957", "title": "Phurlijharan Falls", "text": "Phurlijharan Falls\n\nPhurlijharan Falls is a waterfall in Kalahandi district, Odisha, India, in the Karlapat Wildlife Sanctuary. \n"}
{"id": "23521009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23521009", "title": "Poligono di Furbara", "text": "Poligono di Furbara\n\nThe Poligono di Furbara was a small launchpad at the Furbara airport, in the municipality of Santa Marinella, on the Italian coast north of Rome. It was used for testing the first Italian-designed and built missiles.\n\nIt was later abandoned as a launch site. In the mid-1950s its activities were transferred to the new ITAF facilities at Salto di Quirra, on Sardinia.\n"}
{"id": "24253774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24253774", "title": "Rossmo's formula", "text": "Rossmo's formula\n\nRossmo's formula is a geographic profiling formula to predict where a serial criminal lives. The formula was developed and patented in 1996 by criminologist Kim Rossmo and integrated into a specialized crime analysis software product called Rigel. The Rigel product is developed by the software company Environmental Criminology Research Inc. (ECRI), which Rossmo co-founded. \nImagine a map with an overlaying grid of little squares named sectors. If this map is a raster image file on a computer, these sectors are pixels. A sector formula_1 is the square on row \"i\" and column \"j\", located at coordinates (\"X\",\"Y\").\nThe following function gives the probability formula_2 of the position of the serial criminal residing within a specific sector (or point) formula_3:\n\nwhere:\nformula_5\n\nHere the summation is over past crimes located at coordinates (\"x\",\"y\").\nformula_6 is a characteristic function that returns 0 when a point formula_3 is an element of the buffer zone B (the neighborhood of a criminal residence that is swept out by a radius of B from its center). formula_6 allows \"p\" to switch between the two terms.\nIf a crime occurs within the buffer zone, then formula_9 and, thus, the first term does not contribute to the overall result.\nThis is a prerogative for defining the first term in the case when the distance between a point (or pixel) becomes equal to zero.\nWhen formula_10, the 1st term is used to calculate formula_2.\n\nformula_12\nis the Manhattan distance between a point formula_3 and the \"n\"-th crime site formula_14.\n\nThe summation in the formula consists of two terms. The first term describes the idea of \"decreasing probability with increasing distance\". The second term deals with the concept of a \"buffer zone\". The variable formula_15 is used to put more weight on one of the two ideas. The variable formula_16 describes the radius of the buffer zone. The constant formula_17 is empirically determined.\n\nThe main idea of the formula is that the probability of crimes first increases as one moves through the buffer zone away from the \"hotzone\", but decreases afterwards. The variable formula_18 can be chosen so that it works best on data of past crimes. The same idea goes for the variable formula_19.\n\nThe distance is calculated with the Manhattan distance formula.\n\nThe formula has been applied to fields other than forensics. Because of the buffer zone idea, the formula works well for studies concerning predatory animals such as white sharks.\n\nThis formula and math behind it were used in crime detecting in the Pilot episode of the TV series \"Numb3rs\" and in the 100th episode of the same show, called \"Disturbed\".\n\n(fr) http://www.siteduzero.com/tutoriel-3-422405-profilage-geographique.html\n"}
{"id": "3890392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3890392", "title": "Santa Catarina, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Santa Catarina, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nSanta Catarina (Portuguese for Saint Catherine) is a village on the western coast of São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 1,862 (2012 census). It lies 13 km southwest of Neves.\n"}
{"id": "3713687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3713687", "title": "Skałka", "text": "Skałka\n\nChurch of St Michael the Archangel and St Stanislaus Bishop and Martyr and Pauline Fathers Monastery, Skałka, which means \"a small rock\" in Polish, is a small outcrop in Kraków where the Bishop of Kraków saint Stanislaus of Szczepanów was slain by order of Polish king Bolesław II the Bold in 1079. This action resulted in the king's exile and the eventual canonization of the slain bishop.\n\nLocated on the Vistula River south of Wawel, Skałka was part of the island city of Kazimierz until the nineteenth century, when the Old Vistula was filled in.\n\nOriginally, a Romanesque church was built there. King Casimir III raised a new gothic church in its place and since 1472 this shrine has been in the possession of a monastic community of Pauline Fathers. In 1733-1751 the church received a baroque decor. It is one of the most famous Polish sanctuaries.\n\nThe crypt underneath the church serves as one of Poland's \"national Panthéons\", a burial place for some of the most distinguished Poles, particularly those who lived in Kraków.\n\n\nOutside the church is the Well of Saint Stanislaus. According to legend, this well is where King Bolesław discarded the bishop's dismembered body, which then miraculously reassembled. Water from the well is dispensed from a fountain for pilgrims to drink.\n\nIn 2008, the Pauline fathers added the open-air Altar of the Three Millennia, with statues representing seven important people in Polish history.\n\n\nSix of these people (the exception being Kordecki) are venerated as saints in the Catholic Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "506548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506548", "title": "Spice trade", "text": "Spice trade\n\nThe spice trade\nrefers to the trade between historical civilizations in Asia, Northeast Africa and Europe. Spices such as cinnamon, cassia, cardamom, ginger, pepper, and turmeric were known and used in antiquity for commerce in the Eastern World. Opium was a part of the spice trade and some people involved in the spice trade were driven by opium addiction. These spices found their way into the Middle East before the beginning of the Christian era, where the true sources of these spices were withheld by the traders and associated with fantastic tales. Early writings and stone age carvings of neolithic age obtained indicates that India's southwest coastal port Muziris, in Kerala, had established itself as a major spice trade centre from as early as 3000 BC, which marked the beginning of the spice trade. Kerala, referred to as the land of spices or as the \"Spice Garden of India\", was the place traders and explorers wanted to reach, including Christopher Columbus, Vasco da Gama, and others.\n\nThe Greco-Roman world followed by trading along the Incense route and the Roman-India routes. During the first millennium, the sea routes to India and Sri Lanka (the Roman – Taprobane) were controlled by the Indians and Ethiopians who became the maritime trading power of the Red Sea. The Kingdom of Axum (c. 5th-century BC–AD 11th century) had pioneered the Red Sea route before the 1st century AD. By mid-7th century AD after the rise of Islam, Arab traders started dominating the maritime routes.\n\nArab traders eventually took over conveying goods via the Levant and Venetian merchants to Europe until the rise of the Ottoman Turks cut the route again by 1453. Overland routes helped the spice trade initially, but maritime trade routes led to tremendous growth in commercial activities. During the high and late medieval periods Muslim traders dominated maritime spice trading routes throughout the Indian Ocean, tapping source regions in East Asia and shipping spices from trading emporiums in India westward to the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea, from which overland routes led to Europe.\n\nThe trade was changed by the European Age of Discovery, during which the spice trade, particularly in black pepper, became an influential activity for European traders. The Cape Route from Europe to the Indian Ocean via the Cape of Good Hope was pioneered by the Portuguese explorer navigator Vasco da Gama in 1498, resulting in new maritime routes for trade.\n\nThis trade, which drove the world economy from the end of the Middle Ages well into the modern times, ushered in an age of European domination in the East. Channels, such as the Bay of Bengal, served as bridges for cultural and commercial exchanges between diverse cultures as nations struggled to gain control of the trade along the many spice routes. European dominance was slow to develop. The Portuguese trade routes were mainly restricted and limited by the use of ancient routes, ports, and nations that were difficult to dominate. The Dutch were later able to bypass many of these problems by pioneering a direct ocean route from the Cape of Good Hope to the Sunda Strait in Indonesia.\n\nThe Egyptians had traded in the Red Sea, spices from the \"Land of Punt\" and from Arabia. Luxury goods traded along the Incense Route included Indian spices, ebony, silk and fine textiles. The spice trade was associated with overland routes early on but maritime routes proved to be the factor which helped the trade grow. The Ptolemaic dynasty had developed trade with India using the Red Sea ports.\n\nPeople from the Neolithic period traded in spices, obsidian, sea shells, precious stones and other high-value materials as early as the 10th millennium BC. The first to mention the trade in historical periods are the Egyptians. In the 3rd millennium BC, they traded with the Land of Punt, which is believed to have been situated in an area encompassing northern Somalia, Djibouti, Eritrea and the Red Sea coast of Sudan.\n\nIn the first millennium BC the Arabs, Phoenicians, and Indians were engaged in sea and land trade in luxury goods such as spices, gold, precious stones, leather of rare animals, ebony and pearls. The sea trade was in the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean. The sea route in the Red Sea was from Bab-el-Mandeb to Berenike and from there by land to the Nile and then by boats to Alexandria. The land trade was in deserts of Western Arabia using camels. The Indonesians were trading in spices (mainly cinnamon and cassia) with East Africa using Catamaran boats and sailing with the help of the Westerlies in the Indian Ocean.\n\nIn the second half of the first millennium BC the Arab tribes of South and West Arabia took control over the land trade of spices from South Arabia to the Mediterranean Sea. The tribes were the M'ain, Qataban, Hadhramaut, Saba and Himyarite. In the north the Nabateans took control of the trade route that crossed the Negev from Petra to Gaza. The trade made the Arab tribes very rich. The South Arabia region was called Eudaemon Arabia (the elated Arabia) by the Greeks and was on the agenda of conquests of Alexander of Macedonia before he died. The Indians and the Arabs had control over the sea trade with India. In the late second century BC, the Greeks from Egypt learned from the Indians how to sail directly from Aden to the West coast of India using the monsoon winds (Hippalus) and took control over the sea trade.\n\nRome played a part in the spice trade during the 5th century, but this role, unlike the Arabian one, did not last through the Middle Ages. The rise of Islam brought a significant change to the trade as Radhanite Jewish and Arab merchants particularly from Egypt eventually took over conveying goods via the Levant to Europe.\n\nThe Spice trade had brought great riches to the Abbasid Caliphate, and even inspired famous legends such as that of Sinbad the Sailor. These early sailors and merchants would often set sail from the port city of Basra and eventually after many voyages they would return to sell their goods including spices in Baghdad. The fame of many spices such as nutmeg and cinnamon are attributed to these early Spice merchants.\n\nThe Indian commercial connection with South East Asia proved vital to the merchants of Arabia and Persia during the 7th and 8th centuries. Arab traders – mainly descendants of sailors from Yemen and Oman – dominated maritime routes throughout the Indian Ocean, tapping source regions in the Far East – linking to the secret \"spice islands\" (Maluku Islands and Banda Islands). The islands of Molucca also find mention in several records: a Javanese chronicle (1365) mentions the Moluccas and \"Maloko\"; and navigational works of the 14th and 15th centuries contain the first unequivocal Arab reference to Moluccas. Sulaima al-Mahr writes: \"East of Timor [where sandalwood is found] are the islands of \"Bandam\" and they are the islands where nutmeg and mace are found. The islands of cloves are called \"Maluku\" ...\"\n\nMoluccan products were then shipped to trading emporiums in India, passing through ports like Kozhikode, and through Sri Lanka. from there they were shipped westward across the ports of Arabia to the Near East, to Ormus in the Persian Gulf and Jeddah in the Red Sea and sometimes shipped to East Africa, where they would be used for many purposes, including burial rites. The Abbasids used Alexandria, Damietta, Aden and Siraf as entry ports to India and China. Merchants arriving from India in the port city of Aden paid tribute in form of musk, camphor, ambergris and sandalwood to Ibn Ziyad, the sultan of Yemen.\n\nIndian spice exports find mention in the works of Ibn Khurdadhbeh (850), al-Ghafiqi (1150), Ishak bin Imaran (907) and Al Kalkashandi (14th century). Chinese traveler Xuanzang mentions the town of Puri where \"merchants depart for distant countries.\"\n\nFrom there, overland routes led to the Mediterranean coasts. From the 8th until the 15th century, the Republic of Venice and neighboring maritime republics held the monopoly of European trade with the Middle East. The silk and spice trade, involving spices, incense, herbs, drugs and opium, made these Mediterranean city-states phenomenally rich. Spices were among the most expensive and in-demand products of the Middle Ages, used in medicine. They were all imported from Asia and Africa. Venetian merchants distributed then the goods through Europe until the rise of the Ottoman Empire, which eventually led to the fall of Constantinople in 1453, barring Europeans from important combined land-sea routes.\n\nThe Republic of Venice had become a formidable power, and a key player in the Eastern spice trade.\nOther powers, in an attempt to break the Venetian hold on spice trade, began to build up maritime capability. Until the mid-15th century, trade with the east was achieved through the Silk Road, with the Byzantine Empire and the Italian city-states of Venice and Genoa acting as a middle man.\n\nIn 1453, however, the Ottomans took Constantinople and so the Byzantine Empire was no more. Now in control of the sole spice trade route that existed at the time, the Ottoman Empire was in a favorable position to charge hefty taxes on merchandise bound for the west. The Western Europeans, not wanting to be dependent on an expansionist, non-Christian power for the lucrative commerce with the east, set out to find an alternate sea route around Africa.\n\nThe first country to attempt to circumnavigate Africa was Portugal, which had, since the early 15th century, begun to explore northern Africa under Henry the Navigator. Emboldened by these early successes and eyeing a lucrative monopoly on a possible sea route to the Indies the Portuguese first crossed the Cape of Good Hope in 1488 on an expedition led by Bartolomeu Dias. Just nine years later in 1497 on the orders of Manuel I of Portugal, four vessels under the command of navigator Vasco da Gama rounded the Cape of Good Hope, continuing to the eastern coast of Africa to Malindi to sail across the Indian Ocean to Calicut, on the Malabar Coast. in south India – the capital of the local Zamorin rulers. The wealth of the Indies was now open for the Europeans to explore; the Portuguese Empire was the earliest European seaborne empire to grow from the spice trade.\n\nIt was during this time that Spanish and Portuguese explorers first set foot on the New World. Christopher Columbus was the first to do so in 1492 while sailing westward across the Atlantic Ocean on an expedition to the indies. Instead of reaching Asia, Colombus discovered the Americas, landing on an island in what is now the Bahamas. Believing to have in fact reached India, the crew named the natives \"Indians\", a name which has continued in use to this day, to describe the indigenous peoples of the Americas. Just eight years later in 1500, the Portuguese navigator, Pedro Álvares Cabral while attempting to reproduce Vasco da Gama’s Atlantic route to the Cape and India was blown westwards to what is today Brazil. After taking possession of the new land, Cabral resumed his voyage across the Atlantic to the southern tip of Africa and India, finally arriving there in September 1500 – opening for the first time a route from the New World to Asia – and returning to Portugal by 1501.\n\nIn 1511, Afonso de Albuquerque conquered Malacca for Portugal, then the center of Asian trade. East of Malacca, Albuquerque sent several diplomatic and exploratory missions, including to the Moluccas. Getting to know the secret location of the \"Spice Islands\", mainly the Banda Islands, then the world source of nutmeg and cloves, he sent an expedition led by António de Abreu to Banda, where they were the first Europeans to arrive in early 1512. Abreu`s expedition reached Buru, Ambon and Seram Islands, and then Banda. Later, after a forced separation and a shipwreck, his vice-captain, Francisco Serrão went again to the north, to Ambon, and reached Ternate, where he obtained a license to build a Portuguese fortress-factory: the .\n\nFrom 1507–1515 Albuquerque tried to completely block Arab and other traditional routes that stretched from the shores of Western Pacific to the Mediterranean sea, through the conquest of strategic bases in the Persian Gulf and at the entry of the Red Sea. By the early 16th century the Portuguese had complete control of the African sea route, which since 1512, through a long network of routes that linked three oceans, extended from the Moluccas (the Spice Islands), in the Pacific Ocean limits, through Malacca, India and Sri Lanka (linked years later to China and Japan), to Lisbon in Portugal (Europe), via the Indian and the Atlantic Oceans.\n\nThe Crown of Castile organized the expedition of Christopher Columbus to compete with Portugal for the spice trade with Asia, but instead, landed in a New World. The search for a route to Asia was resumed a few years later, after explorer Vasco Núñez de Balboa crossed the Isthmus of Panama in 1513 and became the first European to sight the Pacific Ocean from the New World, confirming that the Americas were separate continents. The Spanish crown then prepared a great westward voyage with Ferdinand Magellan, in order to reach Asia from Spain across the Atlantic, and then Pacific Oceans. On October 21, 1520, his expedition crossed the strait that bears his name in the southern tip of South America, opening the Pacific to European exploration. On March 16, 1521, the ships reached the Philippines and soon after the Spice Islands, ultimately resulting in the Manila Galleon trade, the first westward spice trade route to Asia.\n\nAfter Magellan's death in the Philippines, navigator Juan Sebastian Elcano took command of the expedition and drove it across the Indian Ocean and back to Spain, where they arrived in 1522 aboard the last remaining ship: the \"Victoria\". These explorers became the first men to circumnavigate the globe. For the next two and half centuries, Spain controlled a vast trade network that linked three continents: Asia, the Americas and Europe. A global spice route had been created: from Manila in the Philippines (Asia) to Seville in Spain (Europe), via Acapulco in Mexico (North America).\n\nHindu and Buddhist religious establishments of Southeast Asia came to be associated with economic activity and commerce as patrons entrusted large funds which would later be used to benefit local economy by estate management, craftsmanship promotion of trading activities. Buddhism, in particular, traveled alongside the maritime trade, promoting coinage, art and literacy. Islam spread throughout the East, reaching Maritime Southeast Asia in the 10th century; Muslim merchants played a crucial part in the trade. Christian missionaries, such as Saint Francis Xavier, were instrumental in the spread of Christianity in the East. Christianity competed with Islam to become the dominant religion of the Moluccas. However, the natives of the Spice Islands accommodated aspects of both religions easily.\n\nThe Portuguese colonial settlements saw traders such as the Gujarati banias, South Indian Chettis, Syrian Christians, Chinese from Fujian province, and Arabs from Aden involved in the spice trade. Epics, languages, and cultural customs were borrowed by Southeast Asia from India, and later China. Knowledge of Portuguese language became essential for merchants involved in the trade. Colonial pepper trade drastically changed the experience of modernity in Europe and in Kerala and it brought, along with colonialism, early capitalism to India's Malabar Coast, changing cultures of work and caste.\n\nIndian merchants involved in spice trade took Indian cuisine to Southeast Asia, notably present day Malaysia and Indonesia, where spice mixtures and curries became popular. European people intermarried with the Indians, and popularized valuable culinary skills, such as baking, in India. The Portuguese also introduced vinegar to India, and Franciscan priests manufactured it from coconut toddy. Indian food, adapted to the European palate, became visible in England by 1811 as exclusive establishments began catering to the tastes of both the curious and those returning from India.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24283253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24283253", "title": "Tourist attractions in Sofia", "text": "Tourist attractions in Sofia\n\nSofia's tourist attractions include:\n"}
{"id": "203115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203115", "title": "Tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests", "text": "Tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests\n\nTropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests (TSMF), also known as tropical moist forests, are a tropical and subtropical forest biome, sometimes referred to as jungle.\n\nThe biome includes several types of forests:\n\n\nIn contrast to TSMF, tropical forest regions with lower levels of rainfall are home to tropical dry broadleaf forests and tropical coniferous forests. Temperate rain forests also occur in certain humid temperate coastal regions. Tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests are common in several terrestrial ecozones, including parts of:\n\n\nAbout half of the world's tropical rainforests are in the South American countries of Brazil and Peru. Rainforests now cover less than 6% of Earth's land surface. Scientists estimate that more than half of all the world's plant and animal species live in tropical rainforests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8782338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8782338", "title": "United States Virgin Islands's at-large congressional district", "text": "United States Virgin Islands's at-large congressional district\n\nThe United States Virgin Islands's At-large congressional district encompasses the entire area of the U.S. Virgin Islands. The territory does not have a voting member of Congress, but does elect a delegate who can participate in debates.\n\nThe current delegate is Democrat Stacey Plaskett.\n"}
{"id": "18304475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18304475", "title": "Värriö Strict Nature Reserve", "text": "Värriö Strict Nature Reserve\n\nVärriö Strict Nature Reserve (\"Värriön luonnonpuisto\") is a strict nature reserve located in Lapland, Finland. It was established in 1981. Moving in the natural park happens under license. In the area there is a research station and the only way to go there is by trail. The studies there are connected to reindeer herding and predators, such as wolves and wolverines.\n\n"}
{"id": "7667105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7667105", "title": "Xerox PARC Map Viewer", "text": "Xerox PARC Map Viewer\n\nXerox PARC Map Viewer was one of the earliest static web mapping sites, developed by Steve Putz in June 1993 at Xerox Corporation's Palo Alto Research Center (PARC). The Xerox PARC Map Viewer was an experiment in providing interactive information retrieval, rather than access to just static files, on the World Wide Web.\n\nMap Viewer used a customized CGI server module written in Perl. Map images were generated in GIF format from two server side programs. MAP-WRITER created the raster images from the geographic database and RASTOGIF would convert the raster image into the GIF format.\n\nXerox has since discontinued the Map Viewer service.\n\n"}
