{"id": "2013661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013661", "title": "Aegle marmelos", "text": "Aegle marmelos\n\nAegle marmelos L., commonly known as bael (or \"bili\" or \"bhel\"), also Bengal quince, golden apple, Japanese bitter orange, stone apple or wood apple, is a species of tree native to the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia. It is present in Sri Lanka, Thailand and Malesia as a naturalized species. The tree is considered to be sacred by Hindus.\n\nBael is the only member of the monotypic genus \"Aegle\". It is a deciduous shrub or small to medium-sized tree, up to 13m tall with slender drooping branches and rather shabby crown.\n\nThe bark is pale brown or grayish, smooth or finely fissured and flaking, armed with long straight spines, 1.2-2.5 cm singly or in pairs, often with slimy sap oozing out from cut parts. The gum is also described as a clear, gummy sap, resembling gum arabic, which exudes from wounded branches and hangs down in long strands, becoming gradually solid. It is sweet at first taste and then irritating to the throat.\n\nThe leaf is trifoliate, alternate, each leaflet 5-14 x 2–6 cm, ovate with tapering or pointed tip and rounded base, untoothed or with shallow rounded teeth. Young leaves are pale green or pinkish, finely hairy while mature leaves are dark green and completely smooth. Each leaf has 4-12 pairs of side veins which are joined at the margin.\n\nThe flowers are 1.5 to 2 cm, pale green or yellowish, sweetly scented, bisexual, in short drooping unbranched clusters at the end of twigs and leaf axils. They usually appear with young leaves. The calyx is flat with 4(5) small teeth. The four or five petals of 6–8 mm overlap in the bud. Many stamens have short filaments and pale brown, short style anthers. The ovary is bright green with an inconspicuous disc.\n\nThe bael fruit typically has a diameter of between 5 and 12  cm. It is globose or slightly pear-shaped with a thick, hard rind and does not split upon ripening. The woody shell is smooth and green, gray until it is fully ripe when it turns yellow. Inside are 8 to 15 or 20 sections filled with aromatic orange pulp, each section with 6 (8) to 10 (15) flattened-oblong seeds each about 1  cm long, bearing woolly hairs and each enclosed in a sac of adhesive, transparent mucilage that solidifies on drying. The exact number of seeds varies in different publications.\n\nIt takes about 11 months to ripen on the tree and can reach the size of a large grapefruit or pomelo, and some are even larger. The shell is so hard it must be cracked with a hammer or machete. The fibrous yellow pulp is very aromatic. It has been described as tasting of marmalade and smelling of roses. Boning (2006) indicates that the flavor is \"sweet, aromatic and pleasant, although tangy and slightly astringent in some varieties. It resembles a marmalade made, in part, with citrus and, in part, with tamarind.\" Numerous hairy seeds are encapsulated in a slimy mucilage.\n\n\"Aegle marmelos\" is native across the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia, and is cultivated throughout Sri Lanka, Thailand and Malesia. It occurs in dry, open forests on hills and plains at altitudes from sea level to around 1200m with mean annual rainfall of 570-2,000 mm. It has a reputation in India for being able to grow in places that other trees cannot. It copes with a wide range of soil conditions (pH range 5-10), is tolerant of waterlogging and has an unusually wide temperature tolerance (from -7 °C to 48 °C). It requires a pronounced dry season to give fruit. The tree is a larval foodplant for the following two Indian Swallowtail butterflies, the Lime butterfly \"Papilio demoleus,\" and the Common Mormon: \"Papilio polytes\".\n\nThe fruits can be eaten either fresh from trees or after being dried and produced into candy, toffee, pulp powder or nectar. If fresh, the juice is strained and sweetened to make a drink similar to lemonade. It can be made into sharbat or \"Bela pana\", a beverage. Bela Pana made in Odisha has fresh cheese, milk, water, fruit pulp, sugar, crushed black pepper, and ice. \"Bæl pana\", a drink made of the pulp with water, sugar, and citron juice, is mixed, left to stand a few hours, strained, and put on ice. One large bael fruit may yield five or six liters of sharbat. If the fruit is to be dried, it is usually sliced and sun-dried. The hard leathery slices are then immersed in water. The leaves and small shoots are eaten as salad greens.\n\nThe bael tree contains furocoumarins, including xanthotoxol and the methyl ester of alloimperatorin, as well as flavonoids, rutin and marmesin; a number of essential oils; and, among its alkaloids, á-fargarine(=allocryptopine), \"O\"-isopentenylhalfordinol, \"O\"-methylhafordinol. Aegeline (N-[2-hydroxy-2(4-methoxyphenyl) ethyl]-3-phenyl-2-propenamide) is a constituent that can be extracted from bael leaves.\n\nAeglemarmelosine, molecular formula CHNO [α]+7.89° (\"c\" 0.20, CHCl), has been isolated as an orange viscous oil.\n\nAegeline is a known constituent of the bael leaf and consumed as a dietary supplement with the intent to produce weight loss. In 2013, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Department of Defense Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center, and Hawaii state and local health officials identified an outbreak of 97 persons with acute non-viral hepatitis that first emerged in Hawaii. Seventy-two of these persons had reported using the dietary supplement OxyElite Pro which contained aegeline. FDA had previously taken action against an earlier formulation of OxyElite Pro because it contained dimethylamylamine, a stimulant that FDA had determined to be an adulterant when included in dietary supplements and could cause high blood pressure and lead to heart attacks, seizures, psychiatric disorders, and death. USPlabs subsequently reformulated this product without informing FDA or submitting the required safety data for a new dietary ingredient.\n\nDoctors at the Liver Center at The Queen's Medical Center investigating the first cases in Hawaii reported that between May and September 2013, eight previously healthy individuals presented themselves at their center suffering from a drug-induced liver injury. All of these patients had been using the reformulated OxyELITE Pro, which they had purchased from different sources, and which had different lot numbers and expiration dates, at doses within the manufacturer's recommendation. Three of these patients developed fulminant liver failure, two underwent urgent liver transplantation, and one died. The number of such cases would ultimately rise to 44 in Hawaii. In January 2014, leaders from the Queen's Liver Center informed state lawmakers that they were almost certain that aegeline was the agent responsible for these cases, but the mechanism of how aegeline may damage the liver has not been isolated.\n\nOn November 17, 2015, the U.S. Department of Justice criminally charged USPlabs and several of its corporate affiliates and officers with eleven counts of charges for manufacturing and marketing products that threaten consumer health. The charges surrounded an alleged conspiracy to import ingredients from China using false certificates of analysis and labeling, and lying about the ingredients' source and nature after inclusion in their products. The various defendants surrendered or were arrested by the United States Marshals Service, and FDA and special agents from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service seized assets including investment accounts, real estate, and luxury and sports cars. This capped a yearlong sweep of potentially unsafe or tainted supplements that resulted in civil injunctions and criminal actions against 117 manufacturers and/or distributors of dietary supplements and products falsely marketed as such but containing banned or unauthorized ingredients. As of December 2016, USPlabs was awaiting federal trial on conspiracy and other criminal charges related to OxyElite.\n\nBael is used in the ritual rites of Hindus. Bael is considered as one of the sacred trees of Hindus. Earliest evidence of religious importance of Bael appears in \"Shri Shuktam\" of Rig Veda which reveres this plant as the residence of goddess Lakshmi, the deity of wealth and prosperity. Bael trees can be usually seen near the Hindu temples and their home gardens. It is believed that Hindu deity Lord Shiva is fond of bael tree and its leaves and fruit still play a main role in his worship.\n\nIn the traditional practice of the Hindu and Buddhist religions by people of the Newar culture of Nepal, the bael tree is part of a fertility ritual for girls known as the \"Bel Bibaaha\". Girls are \"married\" to the bael fruit; as long as the fruit is kept safe and never cracks, the girl can never become widowed, even if her human husband dies. This is seen to be protection against the social disdain suffered by widows in the Newar community.\n"}
{"id": "30260063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30260063", "title": "Allied Subjects' Medal", "text": "Allied Subjects' Medal\n\nThe Allied Subjects' Medal was a British decoration instituted in 1922, and awarded to those who helped British and Commonwealth soldiers behind enemy lines between 1914–1918.\n\nThe medal was awarded in silver and bronze. 134 medals were awarded in silver and 574 in bronze, most of them to Belgian and French citizens. Approximately half of the recipients (56 silver and 247 bronze medals) were female. \n\nIn France and Belgium, it was generally referred to as Médaille de la Reconnaissance britannique or Médaille de la reconnaissance anglaise, after the Médaille de la Reconnaissance française.\n\nIn the Second World War the King's Medal for Courage in the Cause of Freedom took its place.\n"}
{"id": "15046175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15046175", "title": "Andrew Watson (scientist)", "text": "Andrew Watson (scientist)\n\nAndrew James Watson FRS (born 1952) is a British marine and atmospheric scientist and an expert in processes affecting atmospheric carbon dioxide and oxygen concentrations. He was formerly a Professor of biogeochemistry in the School of Environmental Sciences at the University of East Anglia, in 2013 he moved to a position as Professor at the College of Life and Environmental Sciences at the University of Exeter.\n\nWatson graduated with a first class BSc in physics from Imperial College London in 1975. He then became a PhD student of James Lovelock, originator of the Gaia hypothesis of Earth regulation, at the University of Reading. He and Lovelock introduced the Daisyworld model in 1983, showing how ecological competition between hypothetical \"daisies\" could affect planetary albedo and regulate environmental temperature. Watson and his students have subsequently developed \"a priori\" models for the regulation of atmospheric composition through geological time. He has applied the weak Anthropic Principle to evolution on Earth, suggesting that long-term regulation of the Earth’s temperature and environment may be a necessary pre-requisite to allow sufficient time for the evolution of complex life and intelligence, rather than an intrinsic property of the biosphere as Lovelock proposed.\n\nWhile at the Marine Biological Association and Plymouth Marine Laboratory in the 1980s, he developed techniques for tracking ocean water bodies using tracers such as sulphur hexafluoride and perfluorodecalin. He and colleagues applied these to measure the slow mixing vertical rates in the ocean, and to trace the movement of patches of surface water. He also applied the technology to enable iron fertilization experiments. More than a dozen such experiments have now been carried out and have proved that iron is an essential limiting nutrient in important areas of the world ocean.\n\nWatson published the popular book \"Revolutions that Made the Earth\" with colleague Tim Lenton in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "1696734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1696734", "title": "Arabia Mountain", "text": "Arabia Mountain\n\nArabia Mountain is the northern of two peaks in the Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve, in DeKalb County, Georgia, United States. A low saddle separates it from Bradley Mountain, several hundred feet to its south. The two form a monadnock. The peak is 955 feet (290m) above sea level, rising 172 feet (52m) above Arabia Lake reservoir. Bradley Mountain is closer to the visitor trails than Arabia Mountain and is often mis-identified by visitors as Arabia Mountain.\n\nArabia Mountain is one of Metro Atlanta's three monadnocks, which also include Stone Mountain and Panola Mountain. The unique topography and geology of this monadnock allows for unusual plant and animal species to thrive. Arabia Mountain has five species that are listed as both state and federally endangered, including the bright-red diamorpha plant that lives in small pools of water (known as vernal pools or solution pits) that form on the monadnock.\n\nPanola Mountain is 3.63 miles (5.84 km) to the southwest. While designated as one peak on USGS maps, most users familiar with the area consider the rock formation to be two peaks: Arabia Mountain to the northeast, and Bradley Mountain to the southeast, connected by a low saddle.\n\nArabia Mountain appears to be composed of granite, like other nearby peaks such as Stone Mountain and Panola Mountain. Although made of metamorphic rock, the mountain is actually composed of migmatite, metamorphosed at higher temperatures than gneiss but not sufficiently melted to become granite. The resulting \"swirl pattern\" made the rock a popular building stone and many buildings in the region were constructed with stone quarried from the Lithonia district quarries.\n\nLike Stone Mountain, Arabia Mountain was quarried for decades before the property was turned over to the DeKalb park system. Structures and excavations from the quarry operations can be seen throughout the park. The stone quarried from Arabia Mountain, officially called \"Tidal Grey\", was prized for its high structural density and compressive strength as well as its \"swirl\" pattern. Tidal Grey Arabia Mountain can be seen in the construction of buildings for the U.S. Naval Academy, the Brooklyn Bridge, and street curbing in Atlanta as well as many other Georgia cities.\n\nPrior to 1880, the stone was hand quarried but starting in 1879, workers used drills, dynamite and air compressors to “raise a ledge” or sever a large block of stone from the mass. That allowed more control over the size of the stone and large stones could be used for dimensional or building construction.The proximity to the rail road meant that the Tidal Grey could be easily transported across the country.\n\nAnother advancement to the quarrying industry at Arabia Mountain was the discovery that adding granite grit to chicken feed helped with the birds’ digestion. The Davidson family, which owned several quarries in the area, became the largest supplier of poultry grit in the world. They claimed that the sparkling particles of mica in the Stonemo grit attracted the eye and helped the chicken’s gizzard break down food. The company was so successful in distributing their feed additive, a TIME Magazine article from 1941 reported the U.S. government allowed them to continue to operate during WWII in the name of national defense.In 1949, the Lithonia district produced nearly 1.5 million tons of granite valued at the time at $3 million.\n\nThe seemingly barren landscape of Arabia Mountain is teeming with plant life specially adapted to live in the mountain's harsh environment. Arabia Mountain is one of five locations in the US where black-spored quillwort (\"Isoetes melanospora\") are found. It is one of 44 locations in the US where little amphianthus (\"Amphianthus pusillus\") is found. These are endangered species protected by Georgia and Federal law. The largest and most important population of black-spored quillwort and one of the largest \"Amphianthus\" populations occur here. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's five-year review of these species, completed in 2008, states that \"enforcement to protect sensitive areas needs improvement\" in the Arabia Mountain area.\n\nArabia Mountain is one of a small number of locations in the southeastern United States where Small's stonecrop (\"Diamorpha smallii\") thrives (this plant is not listed as an endangered species in Georgia or the US, but is in Tennessee). When granite and similar stone outcrops are exposed to erosion, over time, small depressions, called solution pools, form where weaker rock wears away faster than surrounding rock (often assisted by lichen). Over time, these depressions fill with sand washed down from higher locations, which accumulates a small amount of organic content from decaying dead leaves and other detritus, as well as rain water. Small's stonecrop then takes hold in these sandy hollows.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Davidson family donated over 500 acres including Arabia Mountain and surrounding lands to DeKalb County as a nature preserve for local residents to enjoy. Since then, the Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve has been expanded several times and now includes 2,550 acres, several granite outcrops and two lakes.\n\nOn October 12, 2006, the mountain and Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve were designated as nationally significant as a part of the Arabia Mountain National Heritage Area in recognition of its cultural, historical and natural features.\n\nThe PATH Foundation has completed more than 30 miles of a concrete road for pedestrian and bicycle use running from downtown Lithonia to Stonecrest Mall and thence through the Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve to Panola Mountain State Park, ending at the Monastery of the Holy Spirit in Conyers. This includes a spur to a parking area on Klondike Road and a spur to the DeKalb County School System's Murphey Candler Elementary School and Arabia Mountain High School.\n\nArabia Mountain as a DeKalb County, Georgia park is free to visitors and open seven days a week from dawn to dusk. Arabia, along with Stone Mountain and Panola Mountain, is also one of the mountains featured in the annual event, Monadnock Madness, which includes guided hikes of all three Metro-Atlanta monadnocks. In addition to year-round guided hikes, the mountain also hosts arts events such as Monadnock Muse.\n\nOn the edge of the Arabia Mountain green space is the Arabia Mountain High School Academy of Engineering Medicine and Environmental Studies, opened August 2009. The Academy is a LEED-certified building and uses the \"Environment as an Integrating Context for learning\" (EIC) curriculum. The high school is connected to the nature preserve via a spur bicycle path.\n\n"}
{"id": "5867217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5867217", "title": "Archie's law", "text": "Archie's law\n\nIn petrophysics, Archie's law relates the in-situ electrical conductivity of a sedimentary rock to its porosity and brine saturation:\nHere, formula_2 denotes the porosity, formula_3 the electrical conductivity of the fluid saturated rock, formula_4 represents the electrical conductivity of the brine, formula_5 is the brine saturation, formula_6 is the cementation exponent of the rock (usually in the range 1.8–2.0 for sandstones), formula_7 is the saturation exponent (usually close to 2) and formula_8 is the tortuosity factor.\n\nReformulated for electrical resistivity, the equation reads\nwith formula_10 for the fluid saturated rock resistivity, and formula_11 for the brine resistivity.\n\nThe factor\nis also called the formation factor, where formula_13 is the resistivity of the rock filled with only water (formula_14).\n\nThe factor\nis also called the resistivity index.\n\nIt is a purely empirical law attempting to describe ion flow (mostly sodium and chloride) in clean, consolidated sands, with varying intergranular porosity. Electrical conduction is assumed not to be present within the rock grains or in fluids other than water.\n\nArchie's law is named after Gus Archie (1907–1978) who developed this empirical quantitative relationship between porosity, electrical conductivity, and brine saturation of rocks. Archie's law laid the foundation for modern well log interpretation as it relates borehole electrical conductivity measurements to hydrocarbon saturations (which, for fluid saturated rock, equals formula_16).\n\nThe cementation exponent models how much the pore network increases the resistivity, as the rock itself is assumed to be non-conductive. If the pore network were to be modelled as a set of parallel capillary tubes, a cross-section area average of the rock's resistivity would yield porosity dependence equivalent to a cementation exponent of 1. However, the tortuosity of the rock increases this to a higher number than 1. This relates the cementation exponent to the permeability of the rock, increasing permeability decreases the cementation exponent.\n\nThe exponent formula_6 has been observed near 1.3 for unconsolidated sands, and is believed to increase with cementation. Common values for this cementation exponent for consolidated sandstones are 1.8 < formula_6 < 2.0.\nIn carbonate rocks, the cementation exponent shows higher variance due to strong diagenetic affinity and complex pore structures. Values between 1.7 and 4.1 have been observed.\n\nThe cementation exponent is usually assumed not to be dependent on temperature.\n\nThe saturation exponent formula_7 usually is fixed to values close to 2. The saturation exponent models the dependency on the presence of non-conductive fluid (hydrocarbons) in the pore-space, and is related to the wettability of the rock. Water-wet rocks will, for low water saturation values, maintain a continuous film along the pore walls making the rock conductive. Oil-wet rocks will have discontinuous droplets of water within the pore space, making the rock less conductive.\n\nThe constant formula_8, called the \"tortuosity factor\", \"cementation intercept\", \"lithology factor\" or, \"lithology coefficient\" is sometimes used. It is meant to correct for variation in compaction, pore structure and grain size.\nThe parameter a is called the tortuosity factor and clearly is related to the path length of the current flow. The value lies in the range 0.5 to 1.5. a may be different in different reservoirs. However a typical value to start with for a sandstone reservoir might be 0.6, which then can be tuned during log data matching process with other sources of data such as core.\n\nIn petrophysics, the only reliable source for the numerical value of both exponents is experiments on sand plugs from cored wells. The brine conductivity can be measured directly on produced water samples. Alternatively, the brine conductivity and the cementation exponent can also be inferred from downhole electrical conductivity measurements across brine-saturated intervals. For brine-saturated intervals (formula_14) Archie's law can be written\n\nHence, plotting the logarithm of the measured in-situ electrical conductivity against the logarithm of the measured in-situ porosity (Pickett plot), according to Archie's law a straight-line relationship is expected with slope equal to the cementation exponent formula_6 and intercept equal to the logarithm of the in-situ brine conductivity.\n\nArchie's law postulates that the rock matrix is non-conductive. For sandstone with clay minerals, this assumption is no longer true in general, due to the clay's structure and cation exchange capacity. The Waxman–Smits equation is one model that tries to correct for this.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1784072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1784072", "title": "Atmospheric refraction", "text": "Atmospheric refraction\n\nAtmospheric refraction is the deviation of light or other electromagnetic wave from a straight line as it passes through the atmosphere due to the variation in air density as a function of height. This refraction is due to the velocity of light through air, decreasing (the refractive index increases) with increased density. Atmospheric refraction near the ground produces mirages. Such refraction can also raise or lower, or stretch or shorten, the images of distant objects without involving mirages. Turbulent air can make distant objects appear to twinkle or shimmer. The term also applies to the refraction of sound. Atmospheric refraction is considered in measuring the position of both celestial and terrestrial objects.\n\nAstronomical or celestial refraction causes astronomical objects to appear higher above the horizon than they actually are. Terrestrial refraction usually causes terrestrial objects to appear higher than they actually are, although in the afternoon when the air near the ground is heated, the rays can curve upward making objects appear lower than they actually are.\n\nRefraction not only affects visible light rays, but all electromagnetic radiation, although in varying degrees. For example, in the visible spectrum, blue is more affected than red. This may cause astronomical objects to appear dispersed into a spectrum in high-resolution images.\n\nWhenever possible, astronomers will schedule their observations around the times of culmination, when celestial objects are highest in the sky. Likewise, sailors will not shoot a star below 20° above the horizon. If observations of objects near the horizon cannot be avoided, it is possible to equip an optical telescope with control systems to compensate for the shift caused by the refraction. If the dispersion is also a problem (in case of broadband high-resolution observations), atmospheric refraction correctors (made from pairs of rotating glass prisms) can be employed as well.\n\nSince the amount of atmospheric refraction is a function of the temperature gradient, temperature, pressure, and humidity (the amount of water vapor, which is especially important at mid-infrared wavelengths), the amount of effort needed for a successful compensation can be prohibitive. Surveyors, on the other hand, will often schedule their observations in the afternoon, when the magnitude of refraction is minimum.\n\nAtmospheric refraction becomes more severe when temperature gradients are strong, and refraction is not uniform when the atmosphere is heterogeneous, as when turbulence occurs in the air. This causes suboptimal seeing conditions, such as the twinkling of stars and various deformations of the Sun's apparent shape soon before sunset or after sunrise.\n\nAstronomical refraction deals with the angular position of celestial bodies, their appearance as a point source, and through differential refraction, the shape of extended bodies such as the Sun and Moon.\n\nAtmospheric refraction of the light from a star is zero in the zenith, less than 1′ (one arc-minute) at 45° apparent altitude, and still only 5.3′ at 10° altitude; it quickly increases as altitude decreases, reaching 9.9′ at 5° altitude, 18.4′ at 2° altitude, and 35.4′ at the horizon; all values are for 10 °C and 1013.25 hPa\nin the visible part of the spectrum.\n\nOn the horizon refraction is slightly greater than the apparent diameter of the Sun, so when the bottom of the sun's disc appears to touch the horizon, the sun's true altitude is negative. If the atmosphere suddenly vanished at this moment, one couldn't see the sun, as it would be entirely below the horizon. By convention, sunrise and sunset refer to times at which the Sun’s upper limb appears on or disappears from the horizon and the standard value for the Sun’s true altitude is −50′: −34′ for the refraction and −16′ for the Sun’s semi-diameter. The altitude of a celestial body is normally given for the center of the body’s disc. In the case of the Moon, additional corrections are needed for the Moon’s horizontal parallax and its apparent semi-diameter; both vary with the Earth–Moon distance.\n\nRefraction near the horizon is highly variable, principally because of the variability of the temperature gradient near the Earth's surface and the geometric sensitivity of the nearly horizontal rays to this variability. As early as 1830, Friedrich Bessel had found that even after applying all corrections for temperature and pressure (but not for the temperature gradient) at the observer, highly precise measurements of refraction varied by ±0.19′ at two degrees above the horizon and by ±0.50′ at a half degree above the horizon. At and below the horizon, values of refraction significantly higher than the nominal value of 35.4′ have been observed in a wide range of climates. Georg Constantin Bouris measured refraction of as much of 4° for stars on the horizon at the Athens Observatory and, during his ill-fated Endurance expedition, Sir Ernest Shackleton recorded refraction of 2°37′:\n\n“The sun which had made ‘positively his last appearance’ seven days earlier surprised us by lifting more than half its disk above the horizon on May 8. A glow on the northern horizon resolved itself into the sun at 11 am that day. A quarter of an hour later the unreasonable visitor disappeared again, only to rise again at 11:40 am, set at 1 pm, rise at 1:10 pm and set lingeringly at 1:20 pm. These curious phenomena were due to refraction which amounted to 2° 37′ at 1:20 pm. The temperature was 15° below 0° Fahr., and we calculated that the refraction was 2° above normal.”\n\nDay-to-day variations in the weather will affect the exact times of sunrise and sunset as well as moon-rise and moon-set, and for that reason it generally is not meaningful to give rise and set times to greater precision than the nearest minute. More precise calculations can be useful for determining day-to-day changes in rise and set times that would occur with the standard value for refraction if it is understood that actual changes may differ because of unpredictable variations in refraction.\n\nBecause atmospheric refraction is nominally 34′ on the horizon, but only 29′ at 0.5° above it, the setting or rising sun seems to be flattened by about 5′ (about 1/6 of its apparent diameter).\n\nYoung distinguished several regions where different methods for calculating astronomical refraction were applicable. In the upper portion of the sky, with a zenith distance of less than 70° (or an altitude over 20°), various simple refraction formulas based on the index of refraction (and hence on the temperature, pressure, and humidity) at the observer are adequate. Between 20° and 5° of the horizon the temperature gradient becomes the dominant factor and numerical integration, using a method such as that of Auer and Standish and employing the temperature gradient of the standard atmosphere and the measured conditions at the observer, is required. Closer to the horizon, actual measurements of the changes with height of the local temperature gradient need to be employed in the numerical integration. Below the astronomical horizon, refraction is so variable that only crude estimates of astronomical refraction can be made; for example, the observed time of sunrise or sunset can vary by several minutes from day to day. As \"The Nautical Almanac\" notes, \"the actual values of …the refraction at low altitudes may, in extreme atmospheric conditions, differ considerably from the mean values used in the tables.\"\n\nMany different formulas have been developed for calculating astronomical refraction; they are reasonably consistent, differing among themselves by a few minutes of arc at the horizon and becoming increasingly consistent as they approach the zenith. The simpler formulations involved nothing more than the temperature and pressure at the observer, powers of the cotangent of the \"apparent\" altitude of the astronomical body and in the higher order terms, the height of a fictional homogeneous atmosphere. The simplest version of this formula, which Smart held to be only accurate within 45° of the zenith, is:\n\nwhere \"R\" is the refraction in radians, \"n\" is the index of refraction at the observer (which depends on the temperature and pressure), and \"h\" is the \"apparent\" altitude of the astronomical body.\n\nAn early simple approximation of this form, which directly incorporated the temperature and pressure at the observer, was developed by George Comstock:\n\nwhere \"R\" is the refraction in seconds of arc, \"b\" is the barometric pressure in millimeters of mercury, and \"t\" is the Celsius temperature. Comstock considered that this formula gave results within one arcsecond of Bessel's values for refraction from 15° above the horizon to the zenith.\n\nA further expansion in terms of the third power of the cotangent of the apparent altitude incorporates \"H\", the height of the homogenous atmosphere, in addition to the usual conditions at the observer:\n\nA version of this formula is used in the International Astronomical Union's \"Standards of Fundamental Astronomy\"; a comparison of the IAU's algorithm with more rigorous ray-tracing procedures indicated an agreement within 60 milliarcseconds at altitudes above 15°.\n\nBennett developed another simple empirical formula for calculating refraction from the apparent altitude which gives the refraction \"R\" in arcminutes:\n\nThis formula is used in the U. S. Naval Observatory's \"Vector Astrometry Software\", and is reported to be consistent with Garfinkel's more complex algorithm within 0.07′ over the entire range from the zenith to the horizon. Sæmundsson developed an inverse formula for determining refraction from \"true\" altitude; if \"h\" is the true altitude in degrees, refraction \"R\" in arcminutes is given by\n\nthe formula is consistent with Bennett’s to within 0.1′. The formulas of Bennet and Sæmundsson assume an atmospheric pressure of 101.0 kPa and a temperature of 10 °C; for different pressure \"P\" and temperature \"T\", refraction calculated from these formulas is multiplied by\n\nRefraction increases approximately 1% for every 0.9 kPa increase in pressure, and decreases approximately 1% for every 0.9 kPa decrease in pressure. Similarly, refraction increases approximately 1% for every 3 °C decrease in temperature, and decreases approximately 1% for every 3 °C increase in temperature.\n\nTurbulence in Earth's atmosphere scatters the light from stars, making them appear brighter and fainter on a time-scale of milliseconds. The slowest components of these fluctuations are visible as twinkling (also called \"scintillation\").\n\nTurbulence also causes small, sporadic motions of the star image, and produces rapid distortions in its structure. These effects are not visible to the naked eye, but can be easily seen even in small telescopes. They perturb astronomical seeing conditions.\n\nTerrestrial refraction, sometimes called geodetic refraction, deals with the apparent angular position and measured distance of terrestrial bodies. It is of special concern for the production of precise maps and surveys. Since the line of sight in terrestrial refraction passes near the earth's surface, the magnitude of refraction depends chiefly on the temperature gradient near the ground, which varies widely at different times of day, seasons of the year, the nature of the terrain, the state of the weather, and other factors.\n\nAs a common approximation, terrestrial refraction is considered as a constant bending of the ray of light or line of sight, in which the ray can be considered as describing a circular path. A common measure of refraction is the coefficient of refraction. Unfortunately there are two different definitions of this coefficient. One is the ratio of the radius of the Earth to the radius of the line of sight, the other is the ratio of the angle that the line of sight subtends at the center of the Earth to the angle of refraction measured at the observer. Since the latter definition only measures the bending of the ray at one end of the line of sight, it is one half the value of the former definition.\n\nThe coefficient of refraction is directly related to the local vertical temperature gradient and the atmospheric temperature and pressure. The larger version of the coefficient \"k\", measuring the ratio of the radius of the Earth to the radius of the line of sight, is given by:\n\nwhere temperature \"T\" is given in kelvins, pressure \"P\" in millibars, and height \"h\" in meters. The angle of refraction increases with the coefficient of refraction and with the length of the line of sight.\n\nAlthough the straight line from your eye to a distant mountain might be blocked by a closer hill, the ray may curve enough to make the distant peak visible. A convenient method to analyze the effect of refraction on visibility is to consider an increased effective radius of the Earth \"R\", given by\n\nwhere \"R\" is the radius of the Earth and \"k\" is the coefficient of refraction. Under this model the ray can be considered a straight line on an Earth of increased radius.\n\nThe curvature of the refracted ray in arc seconds per meter can be computed using the relationship\n\nwhere 1/σ is the curvature of the ray in arcsec per meter, \"P\" is the pressure in millibars, \"T\" is the temperature in kelvins, and β is the angle of the ray to the horizontal. Multiplying half the curvature by the length of the ray path gives the angle of refraction at the observer. For a line of sight near the horizon cos β differs little from unity and can be ignored. This yields\n\nwhere \"L\" is the length of the line of sight in meters and Ω is the refraction at the observer measured in arc seconds.\n\nA simple approximation is to consider that a mountain's apparent altitude at your eye (in degrees) will exceed its true altitude by its distance in kilometers divided by 1500. This assumes a fairly horizontal line of sight and ordinary air density; if the mountain is very high (so much of the sightline is in thinner air) divide by 1600 instead.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22016602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22016602", "title": "Bar (river morphology)", "text": "Bar (river morphology)\n\nA bar in a river is an elevated region of sediment (such as sand or gravel) that has been deposited by the flow. Types of bars include mid-channel bars (also called braid bars, and common in braided rivers), point bars (common in meandering rivers), and mouth bars (common in river deltas). The locations of bars are determined by the geometry of the river and the flow through it. Bars reflect sediment supply conditions, and can show where sediment supply rate is greater than the transport capacity.\n\nA mid-channel bar, is also often referred to as a braid bar because they are often found in braided river channels. Braided river channels are broad and shallow and found in areas where sediment is easily eroded like at a glacial outwash, or at a mountain front with high sediment loads. These types of river systems are associated with high slope, sediment supply, stream power, shear stress, and bed load transport rates. Braided rivers have complex and unpredictable channel patterns, and sediment size tends to vary among streams. It is these features that are responsible for the formations of braid bars. Braided streams are often overfed with massive amounts of sediment which creates multiple stream channels within one dominant pair of flood bank plains. These channels are separated by mid-channel or braid bars. Anastomosing river channels also create mid-channel bars, however they are typically vegetated bars, making them more permanent than the bars found in a braided river channel which have high rates of change because of the large amounts of non-cohesive sediment, lack of vegetation, and high stream powers found in braided river channels.\n\nBars can also form mid-channel due to snags or logjams. For example, if a stable log is deposited mid-channel in a stream, this obstructs the flow and creates local flow convergence and divergence. This causes erosion on the upstream side of the obstruction and deposition on the downstream side. The deposition that occurs on the downstream side can create a central bar, and an arcuate bar can be formed as flow diverges upstream of the obstruction. Continuous deposition downstream can build up the central bar to form an island. Eventually the logjam can become partially buried, which protects the island from erosion, allowing for vegetation to begin to grow, and stabilize the area even further. Over time, the bar can eventually attach to one side of the channel bank and merge into the flood plain.\n\nA point bar is an area of deposition typically found in meandering rivers. Point bars form on the inside of meander bends in meandering rivers. As the flow moves around the inside of the bend in the river, the water slows down because of the shallow flow and low shear stresses there reduce the amount of material that can be carried there. Point bars are usually crescent shaped and located on the inside curve of the river bend. The excess material falls out of transport and, over time, forms a point bar. Point bars are typically found in the slowest moving, shallowest parts of rivers and streams, and are often parallel to the shore and occupy the area farthest from the thalweg, on the outside curve of the river bend in a meandering river. Here, at the deepest and fastest part of the stream is the cut bank, the area of a meandering river channel that continuously undergoes erosion. The faster the water in a river channel, the better it is able to pick up greater amounts of sediment, and larger pieces of sediment, which increases the river’s bed load. Over a long enough period of time, the combination of deposition along point bars, and erosion along cut banks can lead to the formation of an oxbow lake.\n\nA mouth bar is an elevated region of sediment typically found at a river delta which is located at the mouth of a river where the river flows out to the ocean. Sediment is transported by the river and deposited, mid channel, at the mouth of the river. This occurs because, as the river widens at the mouth, the flow slows, and sediment settles out and is deposited. After initial formation of a river mouth bar, they have the tendency to prograde. This is caused by the pressure from the flow on the upstream face of the bar. This pressure creates erosion on that face of the bar, allowing the flow to transport this sediment over or around, and re-deposit it farther downstream, closer to the ocean. River mouth bars stagnate, or cease to prograde when the water depth above the flow is shallow enough to create a pressure on the upstream side of the bar strong enough to force the flow around the deposit rather than over the top of the bar. This divergent channel flow around either side of the sediment deposit continuously transports sediment, which over time is deposited on either side of this original mid channel deposit. As more and more sediment accumulates across the mouth of the river, it builds up to eventually create a sand bar that has the potential to extend the entire length of the river mouth and block the flow.\n\n"}
{"id": "80114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80114", "title": "Castalian Spring", "text": "Castalian Spring\n\nThe Castalian Spring, in the ravine between the Phaedriades at Delphi, is where all visitors to Delphi — the contestants in the Pythian Games, and especially pilgrims who came to consult the Delphic Oracle — stopped to wash themselves and quench their thirst; it is also here that the Pythia and the priests cleansed themselves before the oracle-giving process. Finally Roman poets regarded it as a source of poetic inspiration. According to some mythological versions it was here that Apollo killed the monster, Python, who was guarding the spring, and that is why it was considered to be sacred.\n\nTwo fountains, which were fed by the sacred spring, still survive. The archaic 6th century BCE fountain house has a marble-lined basin surrounded by benches. Water was brought here by means of a short and small aqueduct and was distributed by a system of water pipes ending in lion-headed spouts. \n\nThe Roman fountain dates to the 1st century B.C. and is situated about 50 meters higher from the Archaic one. Niches carved on the rock were intended for the ex votos of the pilgrims. One of them was later transformed into a church of St. John the Baptist. The water of the spring reached the fountain with a closed aqueduct. On the facade of the fountain there were seven bronze spouts. In front of it there was a paved courtyard with stone benches on its three sides. \n\nNowadays a modern fountain stands close to the street leading to the archaeological site of Delphi to offer respite to the travelers.\nThe Castalian Spring fuelled poetic inspiration, albeit often confused with the Spring of Pieris. The Castalian Band, a group of poets or makars associated with the Court of James VI of Scotland (including the king himself) drew their name from this source.\n\nThere is a town named Castalian Springs in Tennessee. A natural spring in this location was a gathering place for animals. Isaac Bledsoe discovered the spring in 1772. Having built a fort in 1783, Bledsoe, his brother, and their families settled near the spring in 1787. Native Americans killed the two brothers, who are now buried 500 yards northwest of the spring. Consequently, this area was known locally as Bledsoe's Lick. In 1828, a log inn was built, providing guests with \"healthy\" drinking water and mineral baths. Almost ten years later when the post office was built, the community changed its name from Bledsoe's Lick to Castalian Springs. During this period of time in history, there was a reawakening of interest in classical Greece and Rome.\n\nIn Castalia, Ohio, named after the famed site, the Blue Hole limestone configurations were tourist attractions for many years and are now fish hatcheries. Waters in the blue holes are of a constant temperature and never freeze over despite northern Ohio's cold temperatures. The water which averages 30,000 gallons an hour was first used to supply a local mill.\n\nCastalian Springs was the name of a now-abandoned spa near Durant, Mississippi.\n\n"}
{"id": "37696565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37696565", "title": "Christine Aaftink", "text": "Christine Aaftink\n\nChristine Jacoba Aaftink (born 25 August 1966) is a retired speed skater from the Netherlands. She specialized in the 500 m and 1000 m distances, in which she competed at the 1988, 1992 and 1994 Winter Olympics. Her best achievements were fifth and fourth place in 1992 in 500 m and 1000 m, respectively. In 1994 she was the Olympic flag bearers for the Netherlands. She won two bronze medals at the World Sprint Speed Skating Championships for Women in 1990 and 1991.\n\nNationally, she won at least one sprint title every year between 1987 and 1996. She won all three (500 m, 1000 m and allround sprint) in 1990 and 1992–1994.\n\nPersonal bests: \n"}
{"id": "13213621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13213621", "title": "Clean Cities", "text": "Clean Cities\n\nClean Cities is a government-industry partnership in the United States that provides regional coalitions with information and incentives from the United States Department of Energy (USDOE), a large collection of technical data and resources, and coordinated strategies and resources they can leverage to obtain maximum petroleum reduction. The Clean Cities partnership consists of 87 coalitions that work with 5,700 local stakeholder programs that have helped avoid the usage of over of petroleum, put more than 500,000 AFVs on the road, and played a role in the construction of over 3,000 alternative refueling stations since 1993.\n\nThe country India contains two designated Clean Cities coalitions: KAKINADA, ATCHAMPETA and Central Indiana Clean Cities. South Shore Clean Cities serves all of Northern Indiana which includes the following 18 counties: Benton, DeKalb, Elkhart, Fulton, Jasper, Kosciusko, LaGrange, Lake, LaPorte, Marshall, Newton, Noble, Porter, Pulaski, St. Joseph, Starke, Steuben and Whitley.\n\nChartered on June 15, 1999, South Shore Clean Cities is a government/industry partnership designed to help reduce petroleum consumption in the transportation sector. Located in an area that has suffered the devastating environmental impact of the industrial practices of the late 19th through the mid 20th centuries, South Shore Clean Cities is dedicated to preserving and revitalizing Northern Indiana by promoting the use of clean fuels and clean vehicles technology.\n\nSeptember 6, 2011 - Environmentalist touts Yellowstone's eco success story\n\nSeptember 20, 2011- South Shore Clean Cities award electric vehicles to northern Indiana cities.\n\nOctober 16, 2011 - All charged up, but nowhere to plug\n\nDecember 16, 2011 - Tube City IMS Brings Lean and Green Locomotive to Northwest Indiana\n\nThe Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation Authority. Better known as simply \"Metro,\" the authority provides transit services to the metropolitan area in and around Washington, D.C. The authority has a fleet of 1,500 buses, including 74 hybrid electric buses and Metro plans to have nearly 500 more hybrid-electric buses by 2012. Vice Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley, who last year committed to convert the entire Maryland Transit Administration bus fleet to hybrid-electric buses by 2014. Maryland has already accelerated its purchase of hybrid-electric buses with the help of Recovery Act funds (Clean Cities).\n\nThe State of Tennessee contains 2 designated Clean Cities coalitions: the East Tennessee Clean Fuels Coalition (http://www.ETCleanFuels.org/), and Middle Tennessee Clean Fuels (http://middletncleanfuels.org/). Both were designated in 2004. A third coalition—-West Tennessee Clean Fuels—-is forming (http://www.cfwt.tn.org). Many fleets in Tennessee use alternative fuels like the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Eastman Chemical Company, UPS, Waste Management, cities like Sevierville, Kingsport, Memphis and Crossville, and the Tennessee Dept. of Transportation (a significant biodiesel user in the state). As of 2012, Tennessee has about 30 public stations where E85 is available, and the same where B5, B20 or higher blends like B99 are available. Tennessee's first public CNG station opened in Wartburg, Tennessee in late 2010, and another 5 stations have opened Memphis, Nashville, Huntsville, Athens and Sevierville. As of October 2014, 4 more are expected to be completed in 2015.\n\nThe East Tennessee Clean Fuels Coalition holds quarterly coalition meetings in Knoxville on the first Thursday of February, May, August and November. See the Website for meeting information. http://www.ETCleanFuels.org/\n\nThe State of Wisconsin has one Clean City coalition designated in 1994 called Wisconsin Clean Cities (http://www.wicleancities.org/). Serving the entire state of Wisconsin, WCC has provided education and outreach regarding alternative fuels, vehicles, infrastructure, fuel efficiency improvements and idle reduction. WCC has been instrumental in securing federal and state funding to implement many projects across the state of Wisconsin. Since 2010 WCC has participated in hundreds of events and public engagements statewide. In 2013, WCC reported a reduction of nearly 12 million in gasoline gallon equivalents due to the increase of alternative fuels and technologies. WCC also reported a greenhouse gas emission reduction at 57.9 tons in 2012, a 99% increase from the previous year.\n\nEmpire Clean Cities is the Clean Cities coalition for New York City & the Lower Hudson Valley (Westchester, Rockland, & Putnam Counties). ECC was incorporated in 2007 and was formerly known as New York City & Lower Hudson Valley Clean Cities. ECC has been tasked with providing support and management skills necessary to advance the regions economic, environmental, and energy security by building local public-private partnerships towards promoting the use of technologies and practices that reduce petroleum consumption. In 2012 ECC introduced Empire Green Fleets a metric used to evaluate the overall impact of public and private fleets operating in the region. ECC also launched a Green Food Trucks initiative in 2012. With the popularity of food trucks in NYC growing ECC conducted an investigation on the feasibility of promoting the use of biodiesel in these trucks. http://www.empirecleancities.org/\n\nOn 2009 Earth Day, Vice President Joe Biden announced the availability of $300 million in funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for state and local governments and transit authorities to expand the nation's fleet of clean, sustainable vehicles and the fueling infrastructure necessary to support them. The Clean Cities Alternative Fuel and Advanced Technology Vehicles Pilot Program will support at least 30 projects involving alternative fuels or advanced vehicles. Technologies eligible to be funded include a number of different light- and heavy-duty vehicles, including hybrid, plug-in hybrid electric, hydraulic hybrid, electric, fuel cell, and compressed natural gas vehicles. In addition, projects can support refueling infrastructure for alternative fuels, including biofuels and natural gas. Other efforts eligible for funds include public awareness campaigns and training programs on alternative fuel and advanced technology vehicles and infrastructure. The program requires a 50% cost share from participants.\n\nThe Southeast Propane Autogas Development Program is the largest Clean Cities alternative fuel vehicle conversion deployment program in history. The Program is administered by Virginia Clean Cities at James Madison University and the Virginia Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy. The Program is converting fleet vehicles from gasoline to autogas in the Southeastern United States. The project received an $8.6 million grant from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.\n\nWhile Clean Cities includes a scattering of funding for electrification and charging stations, most of it is for carbon-based liquid fuels or non-pluggable hybrids. Clean Cities federal funding in 2010-2011 was set up with a majority of the funding favoring plug-in EVs and HEVs. However, the amount of funding and focus of that funding ebbs and flows between the alternative fuels over time due to advances in technology and interest in those fuels. CNG and propane were more popular in the early 2000s, the biofuels ethanol and biodiesel took center stage in the mid 2000s, and electric vehicles have taken the limelight most recently (2010–2011).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42778673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42778673", "title": "Climatological normal", "text": "Climatological normal\n\nClimatological normal is a 30-year average of a weather variable. Climatological normals are used as an average or baseline to evaluate climate events and provide context for year-to-year variability. Normals can be calculated for a variety of weather variables including temperature and precipitation and rely on data from weather stations. Variability from the 30-year averages is typical and climate variability looks at the magnitude of extremes. The current normals period used, for example, is 1981-2010. \n\n"}
{"id": "1610231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610231", "title": "Energy density", "text": "Energy density\n\nEnergy density is the amount of energy stored in a given system or region of space per unit volume. Colloquially it may also be used for energy per unit mass, though the accurate term for this is specific energy. Often only the \"useful\" or extractable energy is measured, which is to say that inaccessible energy (such as rest mass energy) is ignored. In cosmological and other general relativistic contexts, however, the energy densities considered are those that correspond to the elements of the stress–energy tensor and therefore do include mass energy as well as energy densities associated with the pressures described in the next paragraph.\n\nEnergy per unit volume has the same physical units as pressure, and in many circumstances is a synonym: for example, the energy density of a magnetic field may be expressed as (and behaves as) a physical pressure, and the energy required to compress a compressed gas a little more may be determined by multiplying the difference between the gas pressure and the external pressure by the change in volume. In short, pressure is a measure of the enthalpy per unit volume of a system. A pressure gradient has the potential to perform work on the surroundings by converting enthalpy to work until equilibrium is reached.\n\nThere are many different types of energy stored in materials, and it takes a particular type of reaction to release each type of energy. In order of the typical magnitude of the energy released, these types of reactions are: nuclear, chemical, electrochemical, and electrical.\n\nNuclear reactions are used by stars and nuclear power plants, both of which derive energy from the binding energy of nuclei. Chemical reactions are used by animals to derive energy from food, and by automobiles to derive energy from gasoline. Liquid hydrocarbons (fuels such as gasoline, diesel and kerozene) are today the most dense way known to economically store and transport chemical energy at a very large scale (1 kg of diesel fuel burns with the oxygen contained in ~15 kg of air). Electrochemical reactions are used by most mobile devices such as laptop computers and mobile phones to release the energy from batteries.\n\nThe following is a list of the thermal energy densities (that is to say: the amount of heat energy that can be extracted) of commonly used or well-known energy storage materials; it doesn't include uncommon or experimental materials. Note that this list does not consider the mass of reactants commonly available such as the oxygen required for combustion or the energy efficiency in use. An extended version of this table is found at Energy density#Extended Reference Table. Major reference = .\n\nThe following unit conversions may be helpful when considering the data in the table: 3.6 MJ = 1 kWh ≈ 1.34 HPh.\n\nIn energy storage applications the energy density relates the mass of an energy store to the volume of the storage facility, e.g. the fuel tank. The higher the energy density of the fuel, the more energy may be stored or transported for the same amount of volume. The energy density of a fuel per unit mass is called the specific energy of that fuel. In general an engine using that fuel will generate less kinetic energy due to inefficiencies and thermodynamic considerations—hence the specific fuel consumption of an engine will always be greater than its rate of production of the kinetic energy of motion.\n\nThe greatest energy source by far is mass itself. This energy, \"E = mc\", where \"m = ρV\", \"ρ\" is the mass per unit volume, \"V\" is the volume of the mass itself and \"c\" is the speed of light. This energy, however, can be released only by the processes of nuclear fission (0.1%), nuclear fusion (1%), or the annihilation of some or all of the matter in the volume \"V\" by matter-antimatter collisions (100%). Nuclear reactions cannot be realized by chemical reactions such as combustion. Although greater matter densities can be achieved, the density of a neutron star would approximate the most dense system capable of matter-antimatter annihilation possible. A black hole, although denser than a neutron star, does not have an equivalent anti-particle form, but would offer the same 100% conversion rate of mass to energy in the form of Hawking radiation. In the case of relatively small black holes (smaller than astronomical objects) the power output would be tremendous.\n\nThe highest density sources of energy aside from antimatter are fusion and fission. Fusion includes energy from the sun which will be available for billions of years (in the form of sunlight) but so far (2018), sustained fusion power production continues to be elusive. \n\nPower from fission of uranium and thorium in nuclear power plants will be available for many decades or even centuries because of the plentiful supply of the elements on earth, though the full potential of this source can only be realised through breeder reactors, which are, apart from the BN-600 reactor, not yet used commercially. Coal, gas, and petroleum are the current primary energy sources in the U.S. but have a much lower energy density. Burning local biomass fuels supplies household energy needs (cooking fires, oil lamps, etc.) worldwide. \n\nThe density of thermal energy contained in the core of a light water reactor (PWR or BWR) of typically 1 GWe (1 000 MW electrical corresponding to ~3 000 MW thermal) is in the range of 10 to 100 MW of thermal energy per cubic meter of cooling water depending on the location considered in the system (the core itself (~30 m), the reactor pressure vessel (~50 m), or the whole primary circuit (~300 m)). This represents a considerable density of energy which requires under all circumstances a continuous water flow at high velocity in order to be able to remove the heat from the core, even after an emergency shutdown of the reactor. The incapacity to cool the cores of three boiling water reactors (BWR) at Fukushima in 2011 after the tsunami and the resulting loss of the external electrical power and of the cold source was the cause of the meltdown of the three cores in only a few hours. Meanwhile, the three reactors were correctly shut down just after the Tōhoku earthquake. This extremely high power density distinguishes nuclear power plants (NPP's) from any thermal power plants (burning coal, fuel or gas) or any chemical plants and explains the large redundancy required to permanently control the neutron reactivity and to remove the residual heat from the core of NPP's.\n\nEnergy density differs from energy conversion efficiency (net output per input) or embodied energy (the energy output costs to provide, as harvesting, refining, distributing, and dealing with pollution all use energy). Large scale, intensive energy use impacts and is impacted by climate, waste storage, and environmental consequences.\n\nNo single energy storage method boasts the best in specific power, specific energy, and energy density. Peukert's Law describes how the amount of useful energy that can be obtained (for a lead-acid cell) depends on how quickly we pull it out. To maximize both specific energy and energy density, one can compute the specific energy density of a substance by multiplying the two values together, where the higher the number, the better the substance is at storing energy efficiently.\n\nAlternative options are discussed for energy storage to increase energy density and decrease charging time.\n\nGravimetric and volumetric energy density of some fuels and storage technologies (modified from the Gasoline article):\n\nThis table lists energy densities of systems that require external components, such as oxidisers or a heat sink or source. These figures do not take into account the mass and volume of the required components as they are assumed to be freely available and present in the atmosphere. Such systems cannot be compared with self-contained systems. These values may not be computed at the same reference conditions.\n\nDivide joule/m by 10 to get MJ/L. Divide MJ/L by 3.6 to get kWh/L.\n\nElectric and magnetic fields store energy. In a vacuum, the (volumetric) energy density is given by\n\nwhere E is the electric field and B is the magnetic field. The solution will be (in SI units) in Joules per cubic metre. In the context of magnetohydrodynamics, the physics of conductive fluids, the magnetic energy density behaves like an additional pressure that adds to the gas pressure of a plasma.\n\nIn normal (linear and nondispersive) substances, the energy density (in SI units) is\n\nwhere D is the electric displacement field and H is the magnetizing field.\n\nIn the case of absence of magnetic fields, by exploting Fröhlich's relationships it is also possible to extend these equations to anisotropy and nonlinearity dielectrics, as well as to calculate the correlated Helmholtz free energy and entropy densities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14386363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14386363", "title": "Ferranti effect", "text": "Ferranti effect\n\nIn electrical engineering, the Ferranti effect is an increase in voltage occurring at the receiving end of a long transmission line, above the voltage at the sending end. This occurs when the line is energized, but there is a very light load or the load is disconnected. The capacitive line charging current produces a voltage drop across the line inductance that is in-phase with the sending-end voltage, assuming negligible line resistance. Therefore, both line inductance and capacitance are responsible for this phenomenon.\n\nThe Ferranti Effect will be more pronounced the longer the line and the higher the voltage applied. The relative voltage rise is proportional to the square of the line length and the square of frequency.\n\nThe Ferranti effect is much more pronounced in underground cables, even in short lengths, because of their high capacitance.\n\nIt was first observed during the installation of underground cables in Sebastian Ziani de Ferranti's 10,000 volt distribution system in 1887.\n"}
{"id": "6633688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6633688", "title": "Glacier morphology", "text": "Glacier morphology\n\nGlacier morphology, or the form a glacier takes, is influenced by temperature, precipitation, topography, and other factors. Types of glaciers range from massive ice sheets, such as the Greenland ice sheet or those in Antarctica, to small cirque glaciers perched on a mountain. Glaciers can be grouped into two main categories, based on whether ice flow is constrained by the underlying bedrock topography.\n\nIce sheets and ice caps cover vast areas and are unconstrained by the underlying topography having a radial flow. The main distinction between the two is the size of their surface, with ice caps covering areas less than 50,000 square kilometers, while ice sheets span larger areas. Ice sheets and ice caps can be classified further.\n\nAn ice dome is an upstanding ice surface located in the accumulation zone of the higher altitude portions of an ice cap or ice sheet. Ice domes are nearly symmetrical with a convex or parabolic surface shape. They tend to develop evenly over a land mass that may be either a topographic height or a depression —often reflecting the subglacial topography. In ice sheets, domes may reach a thickness that may exceed 3,000 m, but in ice caps the thickness of the dome is roughly up to several hundred metres. In glaciated islands ice domes are usually the highest point of the ice cap. \n\nAn example of an ice dome is Kupol Vostok Pervyy in Alger Island, Franz Josef Land, Russia.\n\nIce streams rapidly channel ice flow out to the sea or ocean, where it may feed into an ice shelf. At the margin between ice and water, ice calving takes place, with icebergs breaking off. Ice streams are bounded on the sides by areas of slowly moving ice.\n\nAn icefield covers a relatively large area, usually located in mountainous terrain. The underlying topography controls or influences the form that an icefield takes. Often, nunataks poke through the surface of icefields. Examples of icefields include the Columbia Icefield in the Canadian Rockies and the Northern and Southern Patagonian Ice Field in Chile and Argentina.\n\nOutlet glaciers are channels of ice that flow out of ice sheets, ice caps or icefields, but are constrained on the sides with exposed bedrock.\n\nValley glaciers can be outlet glaciers that provide drainage for icefields, icecaps or icesheets and they are also constrained by underlying topography. But they may also form up in mountain ranges as gathering snow turns to ice. Ice-free exposed bedrock and slopes often surround valley glaciers, providing snow and ice from above to accumulate on the glacier via avalanches. True fjords are formed when valley glaciers retreat and sea water fills the void.\n\nPiedmont glaciers are valley glaciers which have spilled out onto relatively flat plains, where they spread out into bulb-like lobes. The Malaspina Glacier in Alaska is the largest example of this.\n\nSnow may be situated on the leeward slope of a mountain, where it is sheltered and accumulates in small depressions. In these depressions, snow persists through summer months, and is transformed into glacier ice. The glaciers which are built up now, the cirque glaciers form cirques, bowl-shaped valleys on the side of the mountains.\n"}
{"id": "51075046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51075046", "title": "Green bank", "text": "Green bank\n\nA green bank (sometimes referred to as green investment bank, clean energy finance authority, or clean energy finance corporation) is a financial institution, typically public or quasi-public, that uses innovative financing techniques and market development tools in partnership with the private sector to accelerate deployment of clean energy technologies. Green banks use public funds to leverage private investment in clean energy technologies that, despite being commercially viable, have struggled to establish a widespread presence in consumer markets. Green banks seek to reduce energy costs for ratepayers, stimulate private sector investment and economic activity, and expedite the transition to a low-carbon economy.\n\nIn the United States, green banks have been created at the state and local levels. The United Kingdom, Australia, Japan, and Malaysia have all created national banks dedicated to leveraging private investment in clean energy technologies. Together, green banks around the world have driven approximately $30 billion of clean energy investment.\n\nIn the US, the green bank concept was originally developed by Reed Hundt and Ken Berlin, as a part of the 2008 Obama-Biden Transition Team’s efforts to facilitate clean energy development. A similar concept was adopted as an amendment to the federal cap and trade bill, called the American Clean Energy and Security Act, introduced in May 2009. A companion piece of federal green financing legislation was simultaneously introduced in the Senate, where it received broad bipartisan support.\n\nWhen the 2009 cap and trade legislation ultimately failed to pass the Senate, green bank advocates in the US focused on the state level. Connecticut established the first state green bank in 2011, followed by New York in 2013. By the end of fiscal year 2015, the Connecticut Green Bank had supported $663 million in project investments.\n\nIn the UK in 2009, two reports were published advocating the creation of a state-backed infrastructure bank to provide financing to green projects. The first, entitled \"Accelerating Green Infrastructure Financing: Outline proposals for UK green bonds and infrastructure bank\" was published in March 2009 by Climate Change Capital and E3G. The second, entitled \"Delivering a 21st Century Infrastructure for Britain\" was published by Policy Exchange in September 2009 and was written by Dieter Helm, James Wardlaw and Ben Caldecott.\n\nThere are many types and styles of institutions that finance clean energy and green infrastructure projects. There are several key elements that distinguish green banks from other financing institutions: a focus on commercially viable technologies, a dedicated source of capital, a focus on leveraging private investment, and a relationship with government.\n\nGreen banks focus on commercially viable technologies, as opposed to early-stage innovative technologies, because they have been tested, have less associated “technology risk” and can reliably produce revenue for project owners. Green banks are public-purpose entities with some manner of a relationship with government, and are usually capitalized by public dollars. Just like a commercial bank, green banks lend capital and own debt, so it is important they have their own balance sheet. Green banks also focus on using their capital to facilitate private entry into the clean energy market—specifically by using limited public dollars to leverage private investment in clean energy.\n\nFor consumers, high upfront costs often make clean energy technology unattractive to adopt despite declines in clean energy technology costs. Historically, the clean energy sector has depended on taxpayer-funded grants, rebates, tax credits, and other subsidies to drive market development.\n\nIdeally, private lenders would provide financing to building-owners to cover upfront cost of clean energy adoption (beyond what is covered by rebates). However, there are capital market inefficiencies and inherent challenges to financing clean energy that have resulted in inadequate investment by private lenders. Some private lenders do offer for clean energy projects, but typically charge interest rates that are relatively high and loan tenors that are short. Such terms make financing a clean energy project unattractive from the end-user’s perspective. To be attractive from the end-user’s perspective, financing terms would be such that the monthly cash flow from clean energy projects would be greater than the monthly payments for the cost of financing. This kind of cash flow structure is only possible with loan terms that match the expected lifetime of the projects savings, and with rates that are commensurate with the risk. Therefore, private capital offered at unfavorable terms (if it is available at all) undercuts the economic attractiveness of the project potential customers or project developers.\n\nA shortfall of private financing exists for several reasons. One reason is that there is a relatively short track record for clean energy financing, and therefore there is little data for lenders to rely on. Without data, and observable pipeline of similar projects, banks are left with high levels of uncertainty over how well different types of projects perform and how often borrowers repay their loans. This uncertainty leads to either hesitation to enter the market, high due diligence costs and/or unfavorable lending terms.\n\nAnother reason for the financing gap is that many clean energy projects are small and distributed. Building efficiency upgrades and rooftop solar projects are inherently small investments that are geographically dispersed, with varying credit among counter parties. Heterogeneity in clean energy projects is more expensive for a private lender to underwrite at scale, making loans for clean energy projects potentially uneconomical from the perspective of the lender.\n\nA third reason for the financing gap is the lack of capital market liquidity and maturity. If a commercial bank provides an energy efficiency loan, it is unknown to the bank if it will be able to sell that loan to another lender or if it will have to hold that loan on its balance sheet. Mortgage and auto lenders don’t have this difficulty, because there are highly liquid secondary markets for home and car loans, which helps keeps rates low. These kinds of secondary markets are just now forming for clean energy technologies.\n\nThe final cause of private underinvestment relates to human and organizational behavior. To begin lending into a new market, a bank must hire new staff, learn about the risks and processes of a new market, and determine precise criteria for what kind of projects and credit ratings they are willing to lend to. This process may be time-consuming.\n\nTo combat these barriers to clean energy market development, green banks help consumers secure long-term, low-interest loans. Green banks harness a diverse set of financing techniques, including credit enhancements, co-investment, and securitization.\n\nGreen banks frequently utilize credit enhancements to leverage private investment. Loan loss reserves, overcollateralization and subordinated debt can help assuage concern among private lenders who are interested in entering the market, but concerned about the risks associated with developers, counter parties or technologies with less established history in their given jurisdiction. Credit enhancements also help lower the cost of capital for borrowers and improve debt ratings from credit agencies.\n\nSometimes green banks invest directly in clean energy projects to facilitate additional private investment or improve the financial terms set by private lenders.\n\nSecuritizing clean energy loans makes lending far more attractive for private investors. Individual clean energy projects, which vary in credit, location, and technology, can be expensive for a bank to underwrite, and may not achieve the desired scale of investment. Bundling these loans into portfolios and selling them (or shares of them) diffuses risk and creates scale, attracting a broader group of private investors. A green bank can create and securitize portfolios of loans, allowing investors to purchase some portion of the green bank’s debt on the secondary market. Green banks can also add credit enhancements, such as overcollateralization or loan loss reserves, to lower the creditors exposure to default risk and secure better ratings from credit rating agencies. Securitization provides greater liquidity in the market for clean energy project financing, which helps lower the cost of capital for borrowers. The Connecticut Green Bank executed one of the first such securitization deals, selling 75% of its $40 million PACE portfolio to Clean Fund, a specialty finance company.\n\nGreen banks’ innovative financing techniques are more effective if they can operate through robust delivery mechanisms. Green banks can use these structures to increase the security of debt service payments and allow lenders to offer lower interest rates for clean energy financing.\n\nProperty assessed clean energy (PACE) financing allows consumers to pay energy upgrade loans through property taxes. The process places a lien on the property, and the property owner then repays the financing through PACE assessments on the property tax bill. This reduces the default risk associated with a loan and incentivizes private investment. Because the PACE structure reduces risk, it allows consumers to obtain lower interest rates on their loans. Because the loans are attached to the property, when property is sold, the new owners take over loan repayment.\n\nOn-bill financing permits consumers to repay energy upgrade loans through utility bills. Similar to PACE financing, on-bill repayment affords lenders security in a developing market. Because electricity is a necessity, utility bills have a very high rate of repayment nationwide. Placing loan payments on a utility bill increases their chances of being repaid, appealing to private investors and facilitating affordable loans for consumers. Also, the on-bill structure enables renters to reap the benefits of added energy efficiency. Furthermore, the simplicity of on-bill financing is attractive—it is logical that tenants pay for the good they consume.\n\nSometimes the availability of clean energy financing products is not enough to stimulate the desired level of clean energy finance activity, and various non-finance market development activities are necessary as well. A green bank may design and execute various market development activities to build the market for clean energy. Market development activities may not directly involve lending, and a green bank may hire an outside organization to design and perform these activities.\n\nGreen banks or their partners can aggregate consumer demand for clean energy projects and financing to reduce customer acquisition costs for contractors and provide scale for investors. One means by which a green bank might aggregate demand is a neighborhood-wide group-buying deal. The Connecticut Green Bank and SolarizeCT have used this technique throughout Connecticut.\n\nA green bank can organize contractor trainings, in which local clean energy technology installers, contractors, and developers learn about various green bank financing options. Contractor trainings allow contractors to use their knowledge of green bank financing products as a sales tool, increasing the size and volume of the projects they do. Ensuring that contractors fully understand green bank financing is a crucial means of getting that information to the end-users of the financing—building owners.\n\nInnovative renewable energy credit (REC) financing plans have also helped green banks lower energy costs for consumers. Green banks can agree to acquire and monetize the RECs that will be produced by a given clean energy project. After gaining possession of the RECs through the financing agreement, a green bank can then sell them to utilities. As a result of this activity, green banks can offer more favorable financing terms and utilities can obtain RECs in large volumes potentially at below market prices, reducing their cost of compliance and allowing them to pass savings on to their ratepayers.\n\nGreen banks also operate as an interface between lenders and borrowers. Green banks can offer a central clearinghouse for all online data on energy resources (including rebates and financing), technical assistance for investors, and project coordination services for contractors. By facilitating transparency and accessibility of resources, green banks bridge the gap between supply of and demand for capital for clean energy projects.\n\nA green bank can take many forms. Green banks can be newly created entities, or it can be created by repurposing an existing entity. A green bank can be a direct part of government, such as a subdivision of an existing agency. The New York Green Bank, for example, is a division of the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA). A green bank can also be a quasi-public instrumentality, such as a wholly owned non-profit public corporation. The Connecticut Green Bank, for example, is a quasi-public entity with both government officials and independent directors serving on its board. A green bank can also an independent non-profit entity administered by the government, either through a contract, or by purpose-building an entity to serve as green bank. The Montgomery County Green Bank, for example, is a non-profit organization that was purpose-built in accordance with legislation and serves as Montgomery County’s green bank as a result of a resolution of the County Council.\n\nGreen banks are usually seeded with public capital, and that capital can come from a wide variety of channels. The green bank finance model preserves limited supplies of public capital, allowing each dollar to be recycled continuously and utilized for multiple clean energy projects.\n\nA state or local government may place a small surcharge on energy bills within its jurisdiction, and may require that the funds raised by this charge be disbursed to a green bank. Or the government may repurpose an existing surcharge and direct the revenue to a green bank. The surcharge can provide green banks with a yearly influx of capital. The Connecticut Green Bank and New York Green Bank are capitalized in part by a systems benefit charge.\n\nGreen banks can also issue bonds to obtain capital. Public sector bonds have the benefit of being tax exempt, allowing governments and other public authorities to pay relatively low interest rates to bond owners. A green bank’s bonding authority allows debt investors to secure a steady stream of payments from an institution with a low risk of default. In exchange, the green bank receives capital that it can immediately invest in clean energy deployment.\n\n\nGreen banks can also be partially capitalized by the revenue raised from various carbon pricing policies such as carbon taxes, fees, and cap-and-trade systems. For example, both the NYGB and the CGB are capitalized in part by the revenue each state raises through the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI).\n\nA government can allocate dollars to a green bank as a part of its regular budget and appropriations process.\n\nSometimes an existing investment fund will be underused or completely unused. It may be possible to re-allocate some such funds and put the dollars to work in a green bank.\n\nPension funds can invest in deals or portfolios of deals generated by green banks.\n\nFoundations can make grants to green banks to fund startup costs, or they can make program-related investments in green banks and earn a return on their money in a way that is aligned with their mission.\n\nCommunity development financial institutions (CDFIs) can co-invest or provide startup capital for green banks. CDFIs can also provide important technical expertise in certain areas of green bank activity.\n\n\nThe Connecticut Green Bank (CGB) was established in 2011 and was the first green bank in the United States. It is the most advanced green bank in the nation in terms of deal volume. Connecticut’s legislature converted the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund, a grant-focused promoter of clean energy investment, into a deployment financing entity. The CGB is quasi-public and its board of directors is composed of both government officials and independent directors. The CGB is continually capitalized by a systems benefit charge and revenue generated by Connecticut’s participation in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) trading program. The bank also possesses the ability to issue its own bonds based on its balance sheet.\n\nIn its first four years of existence, the CGB has stimulated $663.2 million of investment in clean energy projects, three-fourths of which came from the private sector. The increase in clean energy investment coincided with a huge decline in the number of taxpayer-funded clean energy grants. In effect, the CGB increased clean energy investment while reducing taxpayers’ financial burden.\n\nGovernor Andrew Cuomo created the largest Green Bank in the nation, NY Green Bank (NYGB), and capitalized it through re-purposed ratepayer surcharges and revenues generated by the issuance of emissions permits. The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) designed a 5-year capitalization structure with multiple infusions of capital summing to $1 billion. The NYGB is now a fully staffed entity and operates as a wholesale clean energy finance lender (as opposed to Connecticut, which operates more as a retail lender). Rather than design specific financing products and programs, the NYGB relies on the market to learn what financing is needed.\n\nTo date, the NYGB has received over $1 billion in proposals and has an active project pipeline of ~$500 million. The first set of NYGB investments were announced in the fall of 2015. The NYGB used $49 million of public capital to leverage $178 million in private capital, achieving a leverage ratio greater that 3:1.\n\nThe California Lending for Energy and Environmental Needs Center operates as the state’s green bank. The CLEEN center exists within the California Infrastructure and Economic Development Bank. One of the center’s major initiatives—the Statewide Energy Efficiency Program (SWEEP)—finances energy efficiency projects and upgrades for municipalities, universities, schools, and hospitals. Unlike the Connecticut and New York Green Banks, the CLEEN Center exclusively facilitates commercial projects and upgrades. Interested parties propose a project and apply for financial assistance with the CLEEN Center. CLEEN projects receive funding ranging from $500,000 to $30 million.\n\nThe Hawaii Green Infrastructure Authority was created in 2014 to finance clean energy development in Hawaii. The first program to be adopted was the Green Energy Market Securitization (GEMS) program—an effort to provide the low-to-moderate income market with solar lease financing. For geographical reasons, electricity is more expensive in Hawaii than anywhere else in the United States. The advent of solar leasing has allowed many Hawaiian homeowners to install solar panels, but solar market penetration has hardly reached low-credit households. The cash flow positive financing generated by GEMS is designed to help low-to-moderate income Hawaiians enter a market from which they have historically been excluded.\n\nIn 2015, state legislators converted the Rhode Island Clean Water Finance Agency (RICWFA) into the Rhode Island Infrastructure Bank (RIIB). The RIIB offers both residential and commercial PACE programs designed to reduce energy costs for consumers. The RIIB also created the Efficient Buildings Fund, a program used to provide low-cost financing for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects in public buildings.\n\nMontgomery County, Maryland is the only county in the U.S. that has created a local green bank. The Montgomery County Green Bank (MCGB) was capitalized with $20 million from the settlement that accompanied the merger of utilities Pepco and Exelon.\n\nMalaysia’s Green Technology Financing Corporation was launched in 2010 as a component of the government’s National Green Technology Policy. Through the Green Technology Financing Scheme, the corporation offers companies a 2% interest rate buy down and 60% guaranteed financing for green technology projects.\n\nIn 2012, the UK government created the UK Green Investment Bank (GIB) to attract private funds for the financing of the private sector's investments related to environmental preservation and improvement. It is structured as a public limited company and is owned by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS). Its headquarters are in Edinburgh, where it is also registered, and it has a secondary office in London. The GIB works with a variety of technologies including energy efficiency, waste and bioenergy, offshore wind, and onshore renewables. UK’s GIB has committed £2.6 billion to 76 domestic infrastructure projects, mobilizing over £10 billion of private investment.\n\nIn March 2016, the UK government announced that it planned to move the GIB to the private sector. The government plans to sell its shares in the GIB, but will seek to retain a ‘special share’ to ensure the continued protection of GIB’s green purposes.\n\nAustralia’s Clean Energy Finance Corporation (CEFC) was founded in 2012 with the purpose of mobilizing investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency, and low emissions technologies. At the beginning of fiscal year 2016, the CEFC had invested $1.4 billion of its own capital and attracted $2.2 billion in private sector investment.\n\nThe Green Bank Network is an international membership organization focusing on solutions to clean energy finance. It was launched at the 2015 COP21 meeting in Paris, by state and national Green Banks in Connecticut, Australia, Malaysia, New York, Japan and the United Kingdom, and the non-profits the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) and the Coalition for Green Capital (CGC).\n\n"}
{"id": "25171429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25171429", "title": "Inflow (meteorology)", "text": "Inflow (meteorology)\n\nInflow is the flow of a fluid into a large collection of that fluid. Within meteorology, inflow normally refers to the influx of warmth and moisture from air within the Earth's atmosphere into storm systems. Extratropical cyclones are fed by inflow focused along their cold front and warm fronts. Tropical cyclones require a large inflow of warmth and moisture from warm oceans in order to develop significantly, mainly within the lowest of the atmosphere. Once the flow of warm and moist air is cut off from thunderstorms and their associated tornadoes, normally by the thunderstorm's own rain-cooled outflow boundary, the storms begin to dissipate. Rear inflow jets behind squall lines act to erode the broad rain shield behind the squall line, and accelerate its forward motion.\n\nCool air, carried to the ground by thunderstorm downdraft, cuts off the inflow of the thunderstorm, destroying its updraft and causing its dissipation. Tornadoes, which form within stronger thunderstorms, grow until they reach their mature stage. This is when the rear flank downdraft of the thunderstorm, fed by rain-cooled air, begins to wrap around the tornado, cutting off the inflow of warm air which previously fed the tornado. When thunderstorms are able to organize into squall lines, a feature known as a rear inflow jet develops to the south of the mid-level circulation associated with its northern bookend vortex. This leads to an erosion of rain within the broad rain shield behind the squall line, and may lead to acceleration of the squall line itself.\n\nWhile an initial warm core system, such as an organized thunderstorm complex, is necessary for the formation of a tropical cyclone, a large flux of energy is needed to lower atmospheric pressure more than a few millibars (0.10 inch of mercury). Inflow of warmth and moisture from the underlying ocean surface is critical for tropical cyclone strengthening. A significant amount of the inflow in the cyclone is in the lowest of the atmosphere.\n\nPolar front theory is attributed to Jacob Bjerknes, and was derived from a coastal network of observation sites in Norway during World War I. This theory proposed that the main inflow into a cyclone was concentrated along two lines of convergence, one ahead (or east) of the low and another trailing equatorward (south in the Northern Hemisphere and north in the Southern Hemisphere) and behind (or west) of the low. The convergence line ahead of the low became known as either the steering line or the warm front. The trailing convergence zone was referred to as the squall line or cold front. Areas of clouds and rainfall appeared to be focused along these convergence zones. A conveyor belt, also referred to as the warm conveyor belt, is a term describing the flow of a stream of warm moist air originating within the warm sector (or generally equatorward) of an extratropical cyclone in advance of the cold front which slopes up above and poleward (north in the Northern Hemisphere and south in the Southern Hemisphere) of the surface warm front. The concept of the conveyor belt originated in 1969.\n\nThe left edge of the conveyor belt is sharp due to higher density air moving in from the west forcing a sharp slope to the cold front. An area of stratiform precipitation develops poleward of the warm front along the conveyor belt. Active precipitation poleward of the warm front implies potential for greater development of the cyclone. A portion of this conveyor belt turns to the right (left in the Southern Hemisphere), aligning with the upper level westerly flow. However, the western portion of this belt wraps around the northwest (southwest in the Southern Hemisphere) side of the cyclone, which can contain moderate to heavy precipitation. If the air mass is cold enough, the precipitation falls in the form of heavy snow. Theory from the 1980s talked about the presence of a cold conveyor belt originating north of the warm front and flowing along a clockwise path (in the northern hemisphere) into the main belt of the westerlies aloft, but there has been conflicting evidence as to whether or not this phenomenon actually exists.\n\n"}
{"id": "25753036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25753036", "title": "International Reference Ionosphere", "text": "International Reference Ionosphere\n\nInternational Reference Ionosphere (IRI) is a common permanent scientific project of the Committee on Space Research (COSPAR) and the International Union of Radio Science (URSI) started 1968/69. It is the international standard empirical model for the terrestrial ionosphere since 1999. For a specified geographic location, time, and date, IRI provides average monthly values for electron density, electron temperature and ion temperature, and the molecular composition of the ions in the range of altitudes from 50 km to 2000 km. The latest standard is IRI-2012. A new version, IRI-2016, has since been released. The IRI has been extended to plasmasphere in the IRI-Plas model.\n\nKarl Rawer, the first chairman of the \"URSI/COSPAR Task group on the IRI\" (1968–84) specified as goal of the IRI to establish a (monthly) average model of the terrestrial ionosphere based on reliably-measured data obtained with ground- and space-based methods. Contradictions between these had to be resolved in critical discussions. After a decade filled with data collection, a first set of tables was given out in 1978. Computer source code in ALGOL and Fortran followed. In 1986, the code became available on floppy disk, and later on the Web. It is improved yearly according to the results obtained at the meetings of the task group, which often occur at COSPAR meetings. Since 1999, IRI has been the \"International Standard\" for the terrestrial ionosphere.\n\nIRI used (and still has an option to use) an ITU-R-model that had been developed in respect to radio propagation via the ionosphere, specifying two parameters of which one is narrowly related to the peak electron density and the other to the peak altitude of the ionosphere. Both have been and are regularly determined from ionograms at all ionospheric sounding stations. The authors R. M. Gallet and W. B. Jones had analyzed a wealth of such data from around the world by a method combining Fourier analysis in time with worldwide Legendre analysis of the Fourier coefficients. Meanwhile, regional models are often applied because they reach better local performance.\n\nThe IRI model specifies monthly averages of electron density, electron and ion temperature, and the relative percentage of several different positive ions (O+, H+, He+, N+, NO+, O2+, and Cluster ions). The model can represent variaition of these quantities with altitude, latitude, longitude, date, and time of day. It can also make use of solar, ionospheric and geomagnetic indices to refine the model. Vertical total electron content (TEC) may be derived. (A snapshot of model predictions is shown in the latitude vs. longitude map above).\n\n"}
{"id": "10061821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10061821", "title": "Jura Museum", "text": "Jura Museum\n\nThe Jura Museum located in Willibaldsburg castle in the town of Eichstätt, Germany is a Natural History Museum that has an extensive exhibit of Jurassic fossils from the quarries of Solnhofen and surroundings, including marine reptiles, pterosaurs, and one specimen of the early bird \"Archaeopteryx\". The latest acquisition of the museum is the well preserved skeleton of the coelurosaur \"Juravenator\". \nThe museum also has an aquarium, with several large tanks showing tropical fish and corals, as well as \"Nautilus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "15141324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15141324", "title": "Kanneliya-Dediyagala-Nakiyadeniya", "text": "Kanneliya-Dediyagala-Nakiyadeniya\n\nKanneliya-Dediyagala-Nakiyadeniya or KDN is a forest complex in southern Sri Lanka. The forest complex designated as a biosphere reserve in 2004 by UNESCO. The KDN complex is the last large remaining rainforest in Sri Lanka other than Sinharaja. This forest area has been identified as one of the floristically richest areas in South Asia. The forest complex is situated 35 km northwest of city of Galle. The rain forest is a major catchment area for two of the most important rivers in southern Sri Lanka, the Gin and Nilwala Rivers. This biosphere reserve harbors many plants and animal species endemic to Sri Lanka.\n\nThe biosphere consists series of parallel mountain ranges and valleys. The elevation ranges from 60 m to 425 m above sea level. Mean annual temperature is 27.0 °C while annual temperature variation is 4 °C-5 °C. The forest receives a substantial rainfall of 3,750 mm. Many ancient taxonimic groups of Gondwana are present in these rain forests. They also relates to Indomalayan plants and animals.\n\nThe forest complex act as an important catchment area for many rivers and streams flow through the area. The forest is the source for Gin River, which flows west to the forest and for Nilwala river which flows east to the forest. Kanneli, Nanikiththa and Udugama are the smaller streams of Kanneliya while Homa dola and Gal bandi dola are sourced by Nakiyadeniya and Deiyagala.\n\nThe KDN forest complex shows a degree of floral endemicity, as 17 percent of lowland endemic floral species are confined to this forest area. Of 319 woody plants recorded in the area, about 52 per cent is endemic. The vegetation of KDN complex represents Sri Lanka lowland rain forests. The floral communities dominated by \"Shorea-Dipterocarpus-Mesua\" (Sinhalese \"Doona-Hora-Na\") are common in emergent layer of the forest.\n\nNumerous medicinal plants are found in these forests. They include \"Concinium fenestratum\" (Sinhalese \"Weniwelgata\"), \"Salacia reticulata\" (\"Kothala Himbutu\"), and \"Tinospora cordifolia\" (\"Rasakinda\"). \"Lycopodium Squarrosum\" (\"Kuda hadaya\"), and \"Lycopodium phlegmaria\" (\"Maha hadaya\") are among the rare plants the forest complex harbors.\n\nSome 220 faunal species recorded from the KDN forests and forests around the KDN. This includes 41 endemic species. The forest complex is home to 86 species mammals. This includes 4 species of shrews, 5 rodents, one carnivore and 2 primates. Out of 26 endemic birds of Sri Lanka, 20 of them can be seen in KDN forest complex. Sri Lanka spurfowl, Sri Lanka junglefowl, Sri Lanka grey hornbill, red-faced malkoha, orange-billed babbler, Sri Lanka blue magpie are some of them. 20 percent of Sri Lanka's endemic freshwater fishes inhabit in the waters of Gin River and Nilwala River, which sourced by the springs of Kanneliya-Dediyagala-Nakiyadeniya. Among the forests' herpetofauna are 36 species of snakes, 17 endemic species belonging to 6 families. A total of 23 species of lizards recorded in these rain forests.\n\n10,000 people live in 78 villages around the forest complex. Forestry, collection of non-timber products, rice cultivation, tea, rubber and cinnamon plantations, animal husbandry and other forms of agriculture and cottage industries are main economic activities take place around the forest. Nugegoda, Rajagala and Dediyagala hermitages situated within the forest. The forest complex was subjected to logging, until suspending in 1988. Fortunately the diversity of species and plants remains largely intact. A forest corridor between Sinharaja Forest Reserve and the KDN forest complex is being planned for facilitate animal movement between the two forests. Green-billed coucal, Sri Lanka blue magpie, ashy-headed laughingthrush and white-faced starling are the bird species listed as endangered. 27 percent of floral species are listed vulnerable, and 45 percent are in the rare plants category.\n\n"}
{"id": "1953160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953160", "title": "Limnic eruption", "text": "Limnic eruption\n\nA limnic eruption, also termed a lake overturn, is a rare type of natural disaster in which dissolved carbon dioxide () suddenly erupts from deep lake waters, forming a gas cloud capable of suffocating wildlife, livestock, and humans. A limnic eruption may also cause tsunamis as the rising displaces water. Scientists believe earthquakes, volcanic activity, and other explosive events can serve as triggers for limnic eruptions. Lakes in which such activity occurs are referred to as limnically active lakes or exploding lakes. Some features of limnically active lakes include:\n\nInvestigations of the Lake Monoun and Lake Nyos casualties led scientists to classify limnic eruptions as a distinct type of disaster event, even though they can be indirectly linked to volcanic eruptions.\n\nDue to the largely invisible nature of the underlying cause (CO gas) behind limnic eruptions, it is difficult to determine to what extent eruptions have occurred in the past. In recent history, this phenomenon has been observed twice. The first limnic eruption occurred in Cameroon at Lake Monoun in 1984, causing asphyxiation and death of 37 people living nearby. A second, deadlier eruption happened at neighbouring Lake Nyos in 1986, this time releasing over 80 million m of CO killing around 1,700 people and 3,500 livestock, again by asphyxiation. \n\nA third lake, Lake Kivu, rests on the border between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, and contains massive amounts of dissolved CO. Sediment samples from the lake taken by Professor Robert Hecky (University of Michigan) showed an event caused living creatures in the lake to go extinct around every 1000 years, and caused nearby vegetation to be swept back into the lake. Limnic eruptions can be detected and quantified on a CO concentration scale by taking air samples of the affected region.\n\nThe Messel pit fossil deposits of Messel, Germany, show evidence of a limnic eruption there in the early Eocene. Among the victims are perfectly preserved insects, frogs, turtles, crocodiles, birds, anteaters, insectivores, early primates, and paleotheres.\n\nFor a lake to undergo a limnic eruption, the water must be nearly saturated with gas. CO was the primary component in the two observed cases (Lake Nyos and Lake Monoun). In Lake Kivu, scientists are concerned about the concentrations of methane gas as well. CO may originate from volcanic gas emitted from under the lake or from decomposition of organic material. Before a lake is saturated, it behaves like an unopened carbonated beverage (e.g., a soft drink): the CO is dissolved in the water. In both the lake and the soft drink, CO dissolves much more readily at higher pressure (Henry's law). This is why bubbles in a can of soda form only after the can is opened; when the pressure is released, the CO comes out of solution. In the case of lakes, the bottom is at a much higher pressure; the deeper it is, the higher the pressure is at the bottom. Therefore huge amounts of CO can be dissolved in large, deep lakes. CO also dissolves more readily in cooler water, such as that found at a lake bottom. A small rise in water temperature can lead to the release of a large amount of CO.\n\nOnce a lake is saturated with CO, it is very unstable, but a trigger is needed to set off an eruption. In the case of the 1986 Lake Nyos eruption, landslides were the suspected triggers, but a volcanic eruption, an earthquake, or even wind and rain storms are potential triggers. Another possible cause of a limnic eruption is gradual gas saturation at specific depths which can trigger spontaneous gas development. For any of these cases, the trigger pushes some of the gas-saturated water higher in the lake, where pressure is insufficient to keep CO in solution. As bubbles start forming the water is lifted even higher in the lake (buoyancy), where yet more CO comes out of solution. This process forms a column of gas, at which point the water at the bottom of this column is pulled up by suction, and it, too, loses CO in a runaway process. This eruption discharges CO into the air and can even displace enough water to form a tsunami.\n\nLimnic eruptions are exceptionally rare for several reasons. First, a CO source must exist (regions with volcanic activity are most at risk). Second, the vast majority of lakes are holomictic (i.e., their layers mix regularly), preventing a buildup of dissolved gases. Only meromictic lakes do not mix and remain stratified, allowing CO to remain dissolved. It is estimated only one meromictic lake exists for every 1,000 holomictic lakes. Finally, a lake must be deep enough to have sufficient pressure to dissolve large amounts of CO.\n\nOnce an eruption occurs, a large CO cloud forms above the lake and expands to the surrounding region. Because CO is denser than air, it has a tendency to sink to the ground, simultaneously displacing breathable air, resulting in asphyxia. CO can make human bodily fluids highly acidic and potentially cause CO poisoning. As victims gasp for air, they actually accelerate asphyxia by inhaling CO gas.\n\nAt Lake Nyos, the gas cloud descended into a nearby village where it settled, killing nearly everyone; casualties as far as were reported. A change in skin color on some bodies led scientists to hypothesize the gas cloud may have contained dissolved acid such as hydrogen chloride, though this hypothesis is disputed. Many victims were found with blisters on their skin, thought to have been caused by pressure ulcers, which were likely caused by low blood oxygen levels in those asphyxiated by carbon dioxide. Thousands of cattle and wild animals were also asphyxiated, but no official count reported. Notably, nearby vegetation was largely unaffected, except any growing immediately adjacent to the lake. There, vegetation was damaged or destroyed by a high tsunami caused by the violent eruption.\n\nCarbon dioxide released from a lake is at a low enough temperature to cause frostbite, consistent with blisters found on the skin of survivors of the Lake Monoun eruption. Survivors reported a smell of rotten eggs and feeling warm before passing out; this could be explained by sensory hallucination associated with high blood concentrations of carbon dioxide. Studies of jet pilots and carbon dioxide exposure report similar effects as reported by limnic eruption survivors: the smell of rotten eggs or gunpowder, and a feeling of warmth.\n\nEfforts are under way to develop a solution for removing the gas from these lakes and to prevent a build-up which could lead to another catastrophe. A team led by French scientist Michel Halbwachs began experimenting at Lake Monoun and Lake Nyos in 1990 using siphons to degas the waters of these lakes in a controlled manner. The team positions a pipe vertically in the lake with its upper end above the water surface. Water saturated with CO enters the bottom of the pipe and rises to the top. The lower pressure at the surface allows the gas to come out of solution. Only a small amount of water must be mechanically pumped initially through the pipe to start the flow. As saturated water rises, the CO comes out of solution and forms bubbles. The natural buoyancy of the bubbles draws the water up the pipe at high velocity resulting in a fountain at the surface. The degassifying water acts like a pump, drawing more water into the bottom of the pipe, and creating a self-sustaining flow. This is the same process which leads to a natural eruption, but in this case it is controlled by the size of the pipe.\n\nEach pipe has a limited pumping capacity and several would be required for both Lake Monoun and Lake Nyos to degas a significant fraction of the deep lake water and render the lakes safe. The deep lake waters are slightly acidic due to the dissolved CO which causes corrosion to the pipes and electronics, necessitating ongoing maintenance. There is some concern CO from the pipes could settle on the surface of the lake forming a thin layer of unbreathable air and thus potentially causing problems for wildlife.\n\nIn January 2001, a single pipe was installed by the French-Cameroun team on Lake Nyos, and two more pipes were installed in 2011 with funding support from the United Nations Development Programme. A pipe was installed at Lake Monoun in 2003 and two more were added in 2006. These three pipes are thought to be sufficient to prevent an increase in CO levels, removing approximately the same amount of gas that naturally enters at the lake bed. In January 2003, an 18-month project was approved to fully degas Lake Monoun, and the lake has since been rendered safe.\n\nLake Kivu is not only 2,000 times larger than Lake Nyos, but is also located in a far more densely populated area, with over two million people living along its shores. Lake Kivu has not reached a high level of CO saturation\nyet; if the water were to become heavily saturated, a limnic eruption would pose a great risk to human and animal life. Two significant changes in Lake Kivu's physical state have brought attention to a possible limnic eruption: the high rates of methane dissociation and a rising surface temperature. Research investigating historical and present-day temperatures show Lake Kivu's surface temperature is increasing by about 0.12 °C per decade. Lake Kivu is in close proximity to potential triggers: Mount Nyiragongo (an active volcano which erupted in January 2002), an active earthquake zone, and other active volcanoes.\n\nWhile the lake could be degassed in a manner similar to Lake Monoun and Lake Nyos, due to the size of Lake Kivu and the volume of gas it contains, such an operation would be expensive, running into the millions of dollars. A scheme initiated in 2010 to use methane trapped in the lake as a fuel source to generate electricity in Rwanda has led to a degree of CO degassing. During the procedure for extracting the flammable methane gas used to fuel power stations on the shore, some CO is removed in a process known as catalyst scrubbing. It is unclear whether enough gas will be removed to eliminate the danger of a limnic eruption at Lake Kivu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38486", "title": "List of Anuran families", "text": "List of Anuran families\n\nThis list of Anuran families shows all extant families of Anura. Anura is the name of an order of animals in the class Amphibia that includes frogs and toads. More than 5,000 species are described in the order. The living anurans are typically divided into three suborders: Archaeobatrachia, Mesobatrachia, and Neobatrachia. This classification is based on such morphological features as the number of vertebrae, the structure of the pectoral girdle, and the morphology of tadpoles.\n\nThe archaeobatrachians are the most primitive of frogs. These frogs have morphological characteristics which are found mostly in extinct frogs, and are absent in most of the modern frog species. Most of these characteristics are not common between all the families of Archaeobatrachia, or are not absent from all the modern species of frogs. However, all archaeobatrachians have free vertebrae, whereas all other species of frogs have their ribs fused to their vertebrae.\n\nThe Neobatrachia comprise the most modern species of frogs. Most of these frogs have morphological features which are more complex than those of the mesobatrachians and archaeobatrachians. The neobatrachians all have a palatine bone, which braces the upper jaw to the neurocranium. This is absent in all Archaeobatrachia and some Mesobatrachia. The third distal carpus is fused with the remaining carpal bones. The adductor longus muscle is present in the neobatrachians, but absent in the archaeobatrachians and some mesobatrachians. It is believed to have differentiated from pectineus muscle, and this differentiation has not occurred in the primitive frogs. \n\nThe Mesobatrachia are considered the evolutionary link between the Archaeobatrachia and the Neobatrachia. The families within the mesobatrachian suborder generally contain morphological features typical of both the other suborders. For example, the palatine bone is absent in all archaeobatrachians, and present in all neobatrachians. However, within the mesobatrachians families, it can be dependent on the species as to whether the palatine bone is present.\n\nDue to the many morphological features which separate the frogs, many different systems are used for the classification of the anuran suborders. These different classification systems usually split the Mesobatrachia suborder.\n"}
{"id": "5448725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5448725", "title": "List of Florida hurricanes", "text": "List of Florida hurricanes\n\nThe List of Florida hurricanes encompasses approximately 500 tropical or subtropical cyclones that affected the state of Florida. More storms hit Florida than any other U.S. state, and since 1851 only eighteen hurricane seasons passed without a known storm impacting the state. Collectively, cyclones that hit the region have resulted in over 10,000 deaths, most of which occurring prior to the start of Hurricane Hunters flights in 1943. Additionally, the cumulative impact from the storms totaled over $191 billion in damage (2017 USD), primarily from Hurricane Andrew, Hurricane Irma and hurricanes in the 2004 and 2005 seasons.\n\nTropical cyclones have affected Florida in every month of the year with the exceptions of January and March. Nearly one-third of the cyclones affected the state in September, and nearly three-fourths of the storms affected the state between August and October, which coincides with the peak of the hurricane season. Portions of the coastline have the lowest return period, or the frequency at which a certain intensity or category of hurricane can be expected within 86 mi (139 km) of a given location, in the country. Monroe County was struck by 26 hurricanes since 1926, which is the greatest total for any county in the United States.\n\nIn a \"Monthly Weather Review\" paper published in 1934, the U.S. Weather Bureau recognized Key West and Pensacola as the most hurricane-prone cities in the state; Key West experiences both storms developing from the western Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, while Pensacola has received hurricanes crossing the state as well as storms recurving in the northern Gulf of Mexico. The earliest storm to affect the state was the 1952 Groundhog Day Tropical Storm, and the latest storm to impact the state was a hurricane making landfall on December 1, 1925.\n\nThe strongest tropical cyclone to make landfall on the state was the Labor Day Hurricane of 1935, which crossed the Florida Keys with a pressure of 892 mbar (hPa; 26.35 inHg); it is also the strongest hurricane on record to strike the United States. Out of the ten most intense landfalling United States hurricanes, four struck Florida at peak strength.\n\nLazaro Gamio of the Washington Post created a series of maps depicting the paths of all hurricanes to impact Florida from 1916 to 2015.\n\nThe first recorded tropical cyclone to affect the area that is now the state of Florida occurred in 1523, when two ships and their crews were lost along the western coastline. A total 159 hurricanes are known to have affected the state prior to 1900, which collectively resulted in at least 6,504 fatalities and monetary damage of over $102 million (2017 USD). Additionally, at least 109 boats or ships were either driven ashore, wrecked, or damaged due to the storms. A strong hurricane struck northwest Florida on May 28, 1863, and is the earliest landfall during the year known in the US.\n\nInformation is sparse for earlier years due to limitations in tropical cyclone observation, though as coastlines became more populated, more data became available. The National Hurricane Center recognizes the uncertainty in both the death tolls and the dates of the events.\n\nIn the period between 1900 and 1949, 108 tropical cyclones affected the state, which collectively resulted in about $4.5 billion (2017 USD) in damage. Additionally, tropical cyclones in Florida were directly responsible for about 3,500 fatalities during the period, most of which from the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane. The 1947 season was the year with the most tropical cyclones affecting the state, with a total of 6 systems. The 1905, 1908, 1913, 1927, 1931, 1942, and 1943 seasons were the only years during the period in which a storm did not affect the state.\n\nThe strongest hurricane to hit the state during the period was the Labor Day Hurricane of 1935, which is the strongest hurricane on record to strike the United States. Several other major hurricanes struck the state during the period, including the 1926 Miami Hurricane, the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane, and a cyclone each in 1945 and 1949 which made landfall as a Category 4 hurricane.\n\nIn the period between 1950 and 1974, 85 tropical or subtropical cyclones impacted the state, which collectively resulted in about $7 billion (2017 USD) in damage, primarily from Hurricanes Donna and Dora. Additionally, the storms were directly responsible for 93 fatalities and indirectly for 23 more deaths. Several tropical cyclones produced over 20 inches (500 mm) of rainfall in the state, including Hurricane Easy, which is the highest total during the period. The 1969 season was the year with the most tropical cyclones affecting the state, with a total of 8 systems. The 1954 and 1967 seasons were the only years during the period in which a storm did not affect the state.\n\nThe strongest hurricane to hit the state during the period was Hurricane Donna, which was the 8th strongest hurricane on record to strike the United States. Additionally, Hurricanes Easy, King, Cleo, Isbell, and Betsy hit the state as major hurricanes.\n\nIn the period between 1975 and 1999, 83 tropical or subtropical cyclones affected the state, which collectively resulted in $51.1 billion (2017 USD) in damage, primarily from Hurricane Andrew, and 54 direct casualties. The 1985 season was the year with the most tropical cyclones affecting the state, with a total of 8 systems. Every year included at least 1 tropical cyclone affecting the state. The strongest hurricane to hit the state during the period was Hurricane Andrew, which was one of only three Category 5 hurricanes to strike the United States. Andrew, at the time, was the costliest tropical cyclone in United States history and remains the sixth-costliest. Additionally, Hurricanes Eloise, David, and Opal hit the state as major hurricanes.\n\nThe period from 2000 to the present was marked by several devastating North Atlantic hurricanes; , 79 tropical or subtropical cyclones have affected the U.S. state of Florida. Collectively, cyclones in Florida over that period resulted in over $123 billion in damage, most of it from Hurricane Irma. Additionally, tropical cyclones in Florida were responsible for 145 direct fatalities and at least 92 indirect ones during the period. Eight cyclones affected the state in both 2004 and 2005, which were the years with the most tropical cyclones impacting the state. Every year included at least one tropical cyclone affecting the state.\n\nThe strongest hurricane to hit the state during the period was Michael, which was the strongest hurricane to strike the United States since Hurricane Andrew. Additionally, hurricanes Charley, Ivan, Jeanne, Dennis, Wilma, Irma, and Michael made landfall on the state as major hurricanes. \n\nThe following major hurricanes either made landfall on the state as a major hurricane or brought winds of Category 3 status to the state. For storms that made landfall twice or more, the maximum sustained wind speed, and hence the highest Saffir-Simpson category, at the strongest landfall is listed. Only the landfalls at major hurricane intensity are listed. A * indicates that the storm made landfall outside Florida, but brought winds of major hurricane intensity to part of the state. Storms are listed since 1851, which is the official start of the Atlantic hurricane database. Originally, hurricanes were classified by central pressure in the 20th century; however, modern practices quantify storm intensities by maximum sustained winds. United States hurricanes are still classified by central pressure from 1921–1979; therefore, the maximum sustained winds in the Atlantic hurricane database (HURDAT) are utilized for storms from 1921–1979, since this period has not been reanalyzed by the Atlantic hurricane reanalysis project.\n\nHurricane Fredrick Sept 12th 1979\n\nThe following is a list of hurricanes with 100 or more deaths in the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "5909107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5909107", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Shropshire", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Shropshire\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Shropshire. For other counties, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n"}
{"id": "41165031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41165031", "title": "List of anti-nuclear advocates in the United States", "text": "List of anti-nuclear advocates in the United States\n\nNotable individuals who have expressed reservations about nuclear power, nuclear weapons, and/or uranium mining in the US include:\n\n"}
{"id": "9019379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9019379", "title": "List of impatiens diseases", "text": "List of impatiens diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of impatiens, such as Busy Lizzie (\"I. walleriana\").\n\n"}
{"id": "277020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277020", "title": "List of rivers of Bulgaria", "text": "List of rivers of Bulgaria\n\nThis is a list of rivers in Bulgaria.\n\nThe longest river that Bulgaria has a bank on is the Danube (2,888 km), which spans most of the country's northern border. The longest one to run through the country (and also the deepest) is the Maritsa (480 km), while the longest river that runs solely in Bulgaria is the Iskar (368 km).\n\nA country rich in water resources, Bulgaria has a large number of rivers that are divided into several regions based on their mouth's location. \n\nRivers of northern Bulgaria, with the exception of the very east of the region, are typically tributaries of the Danube. Notable rivers in the area are the Iskar, Vit, Ogosta, Osam and Yantra.\n\nThe rivers in the eastern part of the country are typically short (except for Kamchiya) and flow into the Black Sea. Notable rivers in the region include the Kamchiya, Batova, Provadiyska, Devnenska, Ropotamo, Veleka and Rezovska.\n\nMost of the rivers that rise in southern Bulgaria have their mouths in the Aegean Sea outside Bulgarian territory. A notable exception is the Iskar that takes its source from Rila and runs through Stara Planina forming a gorge to reach the Danube. Depending on their location, they are divided into two regions, a Western Aegean and Eastern Aegean one. The former embraces the Struma and Mesta, while rivers in the latter include the Arda, Maritsa and Tundzha.\n\nDanja el santos\nfho tji river\nsofaking aleu\nrobente slao\nyu gen hi\n\n\nNote: in Bulgarian, \"reka\" means \"river\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4599622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4599622", "title": "Lower Guinean forests", "text": "Lower Guinean forests\n\nThe Lower Guinean forests is region of coastal tropical moist broadleaf forest in West Africa, extending along the eastern coast of the Gulf of Guinea from eastern Benin through Nigeria and Cameroon.\n\nThe Dahomey Gap, a region of savanna and dry forest in Togo and Benin, divides the Lower Guinean forests from the Upper Guinean forests to the west, which extend along the western coast of the Gulf of Guinea from Togo to Liberia and north to Guinea.\n\nTo the north and northeast, the Lower Guinean forests transition to the drier inland Guinean forest-savanna mosaic and Northern Congolian forest-savanna mosaic and to the south by the Congolian Coastal forests. To the east, the Lower Guinean forests adjoin the vast Coastal Congolian forests of the Congo Basin, and to the southeast, the Lower Guinean forests are bounded by the Western Congolian forest-savanna mosaic.\n\nThe Lower Guinean forests share many biotic affinities with both the Upper Guinean forests. They are collectively known as the Guinean Forests of West Africa.\n\nThe World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) divides the Lower Guinean forests into a number of distinct ecoregions:\n\n\nThe WWF has designated two regions of the Lower Guinean forests as Global 200 priority regions for conservation. The WWF's \"Coastal Congolian forests\" region includes the Cross-Sanaga Bioko coastal forests, São Tomé and Príncipe moist lowland forests, and Atlantic Equatorial coastal forests ecoregions. The \"Cameroon Highlands forests\" Global 200 region includes the Cameroonian Highlands forests and the Mount Cameroon and Bioko montane forests ecoregions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58439642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58439642", "title": "Margham", "text": "Margham\n\nMargham is an oil and gas field in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the largest onshore gas field in the emirate. The field is managed by Dusup - the Dubai Supply Authority. Condensate production ran at some 25,000 barrels per day in 2010. Margham also has an oil production capability.\n\nProduction at Margham commenced in 1984, with three major gas-bearing formations located up to 10,000 feet below sea level. The field is connected by pipeline to Jebel Ali, where the gas condensate is loaded onto tankers for export. Dry gas is now also sent by pipeline to supply the Dubai grid, with consumption increasing since 2015.\n\nMargham was initially developed as a liquids stripping/gas recycling project (dry gas was pumped back into the reservoir), but now operates as a gas storage facility for Dubai since 2008, allowing Dubai to depend on gas produced from Margham for its elecricity generation and desalination needs. This usage, together with sustainables such as DEWA's Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Solar Park, means that Dubai has eliminated the use of oil as a domestic energy fuel.\n\nAlthough it is a major producer with ambitions to develop its trading activities to become a major global LNG hub, the UAE is actually a net importer of LNG.\n"}
{"id": "23775576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23775576", "title": "Materials World", "text": "Materials World\n\nMaterials World is a monthly magazine specifically devoted to the engineering materials cycle, from mining and extraction, through processing and application, to recycling and recovery. Editorially, it embraces the whole spectrum of materials and minerals – metals, plastics, polymers, rubber, composites, ceramics and glasses – with particular emphasis on advanced technologies, latest developments and new applications, giving prominence to the topics that are of fundamental importance to those in industry. It is the member's magazine of The Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3).\n\n\"Materials World\" website\n"}
{"id": "7732600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7732600", "title": "Mesosphere (mantle)", "text": "Mesosphere (mantle)\n\nIn geology, the mesosphere refers to the part of the Earth's mantle below the lithosphere and the asthenosphere, but above the outer core. The upper boundary is defined by the sharp increase in seismic wave velocities and density at a depth of . At a depth of 660 km, ringwoodite (gamma-(Mg,Fe)SiO) decomposes into Mg-Si perovskite and magnesiowüstite. This reaction marks the boundary between upper mantle and lower mantle. This measurement is estimated from seismic data and high-pressure laboratory experiments.\n\nThe base of the mesosphere includes the D' zone which lies just above the mantle-core boundary at approximately . The base of the lower mantle is at about 2700 km.\n\n\"Mesosphere\" (not to be confused with mesosphere, a layer of the atmosphere) is derived from “mesospheric shell”, coined by Reginald Aldworth Daly, a Harvard University geology professor. In the pre-plate tectonics era, Daly (1940) inferred that the outer Earth consisted of three spherical layers: lithosphere (including the crust), asthenosphere, and mesospheric shell. Daly’s hypothetical depths to the lithosphere–asthenosphere boundary ranged from , and the top of the mesospheric shell (base of the asthenosphere) were from . Thus, Daly’s asthenosphere was inferred to be thick. According to Daly, the base of the solid Earth mesosphere could extend to the base of the mantle (and, thus, to the top of the core).\n\nA derivative term, mesoplates, was introduced as a heuristic, based on a combination of \"mesosphere\" and \"plate\", for postulated reference frames in which mantle hotspots apparently exist.\n"}
{"id": "13273575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13273575", "title": "Mexican dry forests", "text": "Mexican dry forests\n\nMexican dry forest describes a number of ecoregions of Mexico within the dry broadleaf forest Biome.\nTogether they constitute a World Wildlife Fund Global 200 priority ecoregions area for conservation.\n\nThe area includes the dry forest ecoregions of Mexico's Pacific Ocean Coast from Sinaloa and the southern Baja California peninsula south to Guatemala.\n\nNorth to south, they include:\n"}
{"id": "55550424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55550424", "title": "Mount Bongao", "text": "Mount Bongao\n\nMount Bongao (famously known as Bud Bongao) is a mountain located in Bongao Island in the province of Tawi-Tawi. It is a mountain formed with six limestone pillars that serves as its 6 peaks. \n\nBud Bongao is inside the \"Bongao Peak Eco-Tourism Park\" which was inaugurated last July 3, 2017. It is a 250-hectare forest that is one of the last remaining moist forest in the Sulu Archipelago.\n\nThe mountain is considered sacred where it is believed that two preachers who are direct followers of Karim ul-Makhdum, are buried under what is called \"Tampat Rocks\". Karim ul-Makhdum brought Islam to the Philippines in the year 1380.\n\nBud Bongao is composed of six limestone pillars that form six of its peaks, which serves as view points for the islands and locations they are named after. These peaks are \"Bongao\", \"Pajar\", \"Sibutu\" (summit), \"Simunul\", \"Tambisan\", and \"Tinondakan\". \n\nAside from being a sacred mountain, Bud Bongao is also famous for hikers. A 3,608-step cobblestone trail has been constructed from the jump-off at Barangay Pasiagan that ends at a view deck constructed on Tambisan Peak. The view deck offers a vantage point overlooking Celebes Sea and Tambisan Island in Sabah at above sea level.\n\nMonkeys endemic to Bud Bongao include \"Macaca fascicularis\". \n"}
{"id": "5224295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5224295", "title": "Myco-heterotrophy", "text": "Myco-heterotrophy\n\nMyco-heterotrophy (from Greek μύκης \"mykes\", \"fungus\", ἕτερος \"heteros\", \"another\", \"different\" and τροφή \"trophe\", \"nutrition\") is a symbiotic relationship between certain kinds of plants and fungi, in which the plant gets all or part of its food from parasitism upon fungi rather than from photosynthesis. A myco-heterotroph is the parasitic plant partner in this relationship. Myco-heterotrophy is considered a kind of cheating relationship and myco-heterotrophs are sometimes informally referred to as \"mycorrhizal cheaters\". This relationship is sometimes referred to as mycotrophy, though this term is also used for plants that engage in mutualistic mycorrhizal relationships.\n\nFull (or obligate) myco-heterotrophy exists when a non-photosynthetic plant (a plant largely lacking in chlorophyll or otherwise lacking a functional photosystem) gets all of its food from the fungi that it parasitizes. Partial (or facultative) myco-heterotrophy exists when a plant is capable of photosynthesis, but parasitizes fungi as a supplementary food supply. There are also plants, such as some orchid species, that are non-photosynthetic and obligately myco-heterotrophic for part of their life cycle, and photosynthetic and facultatively myco-heterotrophic or non-myco-heterotrophic for the rest of their life cycle. Not all non-photosynthetic or \"\" plants are myco-heterotrophic – some non-photosynthetic plants like dodder directly parasitize the vascular tissue of other plants.\n\nIn the past, non-photosynthetic plants were mistakenly thought to get food by breaking down organic matter in a manner similar to saprotrophic fungi. Such plants were therefore called \"saprophytes\". It is now known that these plants are not physiologically capable of directly breaking down organic matter and that in order to get food, non-photosynthetic plants must engage in parasitism, either through myco-heterotrophy or direct parasitism of other plants.\n\nThe interface between the plant and fungal partners in this association is between the roots of the plant and the mycelium of the fungus. Myco-heterotrophy therefore closely resembles mycorrhiza (and indeed is thought to have evolved from mycorrhiza), except that in myco-heterotrophy, the flow of carbon is from the fungus to the plant, rather than vice versa.\n\nMost myco-heterotrophs can therefore be seen as ultimately being epiparasites, since they take energy from fungi that in turn get their energy from vascular plants. Indeed, much myco-heterotrophy takes place in the context of common mycorrhizal networks, in which plants use mycorrhizal fungi to exchange carbon and nutrients with other plants. In these systems, myco-heterotrophs play the role of \"mycorrhizal cheaters\", taking carbon from the common network, with no known reward.\n\nIn congruence with older reports, it has been recently shown that some myco-heterotrophic orchids can be supported by saprotrophic fungi, exploiting litter- or wood-decaying fungi. In addition, several green plants (evolutionarily close to myco-heterotrophic species) have been shown to engage in partial myco-heterotrophy, that is, they are able to take carbon from mycorrhizal fungi, in addition to their photosynthetic intake.\n\nMyco-heterotrophs are found among a number of plant groups. All monotropes and non-photosynthetic orchids are full myco-heterotrophs, as is the non-photosynthetic liverwort \"Cryptothallus\". Partial myco-heterotrophy is common in the Gentian family, with a few genera such as \"Voyria\" being fully myco-heterotrophic; in photosynthetic orchids; and in a number of other plant groups. Some ferns and clubmosses have myco-heterotrophic gametophyte stages. The fungi that are parasitized by myco-heterotrophs are typically fungi with large energy reserves to draw on, usually mycorrhizal fungi, though there is some evidence that they may also parasitize parasitic fungi that form extensive mycelial networks, such as \"Armillaria\".\nExamples of fungi parasitized by myco-heterotrophic plants can be found among the ectomycorrhizal, arbuscular mycorrhizal, and orchid mycorrhizal fungi. The great diversity in unrelated plant families with myco-heterotrophic members, as well as the diversity of fungi targeted by myco-heterotrophs, suggests multiple parallel evolution of myco-heterotrophs from mycorrhizal ancestors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1870708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870708", "title": "Near-Earth supernova", "text": "Near-Earth supernova\n\nA near-Earth supernova is an explosion resulting from the death of a star that occurs close enough to the Earth (roughly less than 10 to 300 parsecs (30 to 1000 light-years) away) to have noticeable effects on Earth's biosphere.\n\nOn average, a supernova explosion occurs within of the Earth every 240 million years. Gamma rays are responsible for most of the adverse effects a supernova can have on a living terrestrial planet. In Earth's case, gamma rays induce a chemical reaction in the upper atmosphere, converting molecular nitrogen into nitrogen oxides, depleting the ozone layer enough to expose the surface to harmful solar and cosmic radiation (mainly ultra-violet). Phytoplankton and reef communities would be particularly affected, which could severely deplete the base of the marine food chain.\n\nSpeculation as to the effects of a nearby supernova on Earth often focuses on large stars as Type II supernova candidates. Several prominent stars within a few hundred light years of the Sun are candidates for becoming supernovae in as little as a millennium. Although they would be spectacular to look at, were these \"predictable\" supernovae to occur, they are thought to have little potential to affect Earth.\n\nIt is estimated that a Type II supernova closer than eight parsecs (26 light-years) would destroy more than half of the Earth's ozone layer. Such estimates are based on atmospheric modeling and the measured radiation flux from SN 1987A, a Type II supernova in the Large Magellanic Cloud. Estimates of the rate of supernova occurrence within 10 parsecs of the Earth vary from 0.05–0.5 per Ga to 10 per Ga. Several studies assume that supernovae are concentrated in the spiral arms of the galaxy, and that supernova explosions near the Sun usually occur during the ~10 million years that the Sun takes to pass through one of these regions. Examples of relatively near supernovae are the Vela Supernova Remnant (~800 ly, ~12,000 years ago) and Geminga (~550 ly, ~300,000 years ago).\n\nType Ia supernovae are thought to be potentially the most dangerous if they occur close enough to the Earth. Because Type Ia supernovae arise from dim, common white dwarf stars, it is likely that a supernova that could affect the Earth will occur unpredictably and take place in a star system that is not well studied. The closest known candidate is IK Pegasi. It is currently estimated, however, that by the time it could become a threat, its velocity in relation to the Solar System would have carried IK Pegasi to a safe distance.\n\nEvidence from daughter products of short-lived radioactive isotopes shows that a nearby supernova helped determine the composition of the Solar System 4.5 billion years ago, and may even have triggered the formation of this system. Supernova production of heavy elements over astronomic periods of time ultimately made the chemistry of life on Earth possible.\n\nPast supernovae might be detectable on Earth in the form of metal isotope signatures in rock strata. Subsequently, iron-60 enrichment has been reported in deep-sea rock of the Pacific Ocean by researchers from the Technical University of Munich. Twenty-three atoms of this iron isotope were found in the top 2 cm of crust (this layer corresponds to times from 13.4 to 0 million years ago). It is estimated that the supernova must have occurred in the last 5 million years or else it would have had to happen very close to the solar system to account for so much iron-60 still being here. A supernova occurring so close would have probably caused a mass extinction, which did not happen in that time frame. The quantity of iron seems to indicate that the supernova was less than 30 parsecs away. On the other hand, the authors estimate the frequency of supernovae at a distance less than \"D\" (for reasonably small \"D\") as around (\"D\"/10 pc) per Ga, which gives a probability of only around 5% for a supernova within 30 pc in the last 5 million years. They point out that the probability may be higher because the Solar System is entering the Orion Arm of the Milky Way.\n\nGamma ray bursts from \"dangerously close\" supernova explosions occur two or more times per billion years, and this has been proposed as the cause of the end Ordovician extinction, which resulted in the death of nearly 60% of the oceanic life on Earth.\n\nIn 1998 a supernova remnant, RX J0852.0-4622, was found in front (apparently) of the larger Vela Supernova Remnant. Gamma rays from the decay of titanium-44 (half-life about 60 years) were independently discovered emanating from it, showing that it must have exploded fairly recently (perhaps around 1200 CE), but there is no historical record of it. The flux of gamma rays and x-rays indicates that the supernova was relatively close to us (perhaps 200 parsecs or 660 ly). If so, this is an unexpected event because supernovae less than 200 parsecs away are estimated to occur less than once per 100,000 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "4976168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4976168", "title": "Niche segregation", "text": "Niche segregation\n\nSpecies use restricted ecological niches, and the niches of all species are segregated, often with much overlap, by the use of different habitats, different geographic areas and seasons, and different food resources, to mention only a few of the many niche dimensions. The causes of niche restriction and segregation are important problems in evolutionary ecology.\n\nTwo ecological paradigms deal with the problem. The first paradigm predominates in what may be called “classical” ecology. It assumes that niche space is largely saturated with individuals and species, leading to strong competition. Niches are restricted because “neighbouring” species, i.e., species with similar ecological characteristics such as similar habitats or food preferences, prevent expansion into other niches or even narrow niches down. This continual struggle for existence is an important assumption of natural selection introduced by Darwin as an explanation for evolution.\n\nThe other paradigm assumes that niche space is to a large degree vacant, i.e., that there are many vacant niches. It is based on many empirical studies and theoretical investigations especially of Kauffman 1993. Causes of vacant niches may be evolutionary contingencies or brief or long-lasting environmental disturbances.\n\nBoth paradigms agree that species are never “universal” in the sense that they occupy all possible niches; they are always specialized, although the degree of specialization varies. For example, there is no universal parasite which infects all host species and microhabitats within or on them. However, the degree of host specificity varies strongly. Thus, \"Toxoplasma\" (Protista) infects numerous vertebrates including humans, \"Enterobius vermicularis\" infects only humans.\n\nThe following mechanisms for niche restriction and segregation have been proposed:\n\n\n\nBoth paradigms acknowledge a role for all mechanisms (except possibly for that of random selection of niches in the first paradigm), but emphasis on the various mechanisms varies. The first paradigm stresses the paramount importance of interspecific competition, whereas the second paradigm tries to explain many cases which are thought to be due to competition in the first paradigm, by reinforcement of reproductive barriers and/or random selection of niches. – Many authors believe in the overriding importance of interspecific competition. Intuitively, one would expect that interspecific competition is of particular importance in all those cases in which sympatric species (i.e., species occurring together in the same area) with large population densities use the same resources and largely exhaust them. However, Andrewartha and Birch (1954,1984) and others have pointed out that most natural populations usually don’t even approach exhaustion of resources, and too much emphasis on interspecific competition is therefore wrong. Concerning the possibility that competition has led to segregation in the evolutionary past, Wiens (1974, 1984) concluded that such assumptions cannot be proven, and Connell (1980) found that interspecific competition as a mechanism of niche segregation has been proven only for some pest insects. Barker (1983), in his review of competition in \"Drosophila\" and related genera, which are among the best known animal groups, concluded that the idea of niche segregation by interspecific competition is attractive, but that no study has yet been able to show a mechanism responsible for segregation. Without specific evidence, the possibility of random segregation can never be excluded, and assumption of such randomness can indeed serve as a null-model. – Many physiological and morphological differences between species can prevent hybridization. Evidence for niche segregation as the result of reinforcement of reproductive barriers is especially convincing in those cases in which such differences are not found in allopatric but only in sympatric locations. For example, Kawano (2002) has shown this for giant rhinoceros beetles in Southeast Asia. Two closely related species occur in 12 allopatric (i.e., in different areas) and 7 sympatric (i.e., in the same area) locations. In the former, body length and length of genitalia are practically identical, in the latter, they are significantly different, and much more so for the genitalia than the body, convincing evidence that reinforcement is an important factor (and possibly the only one) responsible for niche segregation. - The very detailed studies of communities of Monogenea parasitic on the gills of marine and freshwater fishes by several authors have shown the same. Species use strictly defined microhabitats and have very complex copulatory organs. This and the fact that fish replicas are available in almost unlimited numbers, makes them ideal ecological models. Many congeners (species belonging to the same genus) and non-congeners were found on single host species. The maximum number of congeners was nine species. The only limiting factor is space for attachment, since food (blood, mucus, fast regenerating epithelial cells) is in unlimited supply as long as the fish is alive. Various authors, using a variety of statistical methods, have consistently found that species with different copulatory organs may co-occur in the same microhabitat, whereas congeners with identical or very similar copulatory organs are spatially segregated, convincing evidence that reinforcement and not competition is responsible for niche segregation.\n\nFor a detailed discussion, especially of competition and reinforcement of reproductive barriers, see\n\n"}
{"id": "11180183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11180183", "title": "OMNIS", "text": "OMNIS\n\nOMNIS (Office des Mines Nationales et des Industries Stratégiques, formerly known as Office Militaire National pour les Industries Stratégiques) is the Malagasy government organisation, operating under the auspices of the Ministry of Energy, responsible for:\n\nHydrocarbons:\n– Putting in place and updating the legal framework for upstream oil and gas activities in Madagascar\n– Acquisition of technical exploration data (geological, geophysical and drilling)\n– Promotion of potentially hydrocarbon-bearing areas\n– Management of existing and newly acquired exploration data\n– Laboratory analysis of samples (rock, oil and gas)\n\nMining:\n– Promotion of the Malagasy mining sector\n– Development of basic sectoral infrastructure relevant to various minerals\n– Undertaking of minerals research including energy minerals (radioactive minerals, fossil fuels, etc.)\n– Development of and feasibility studies for mining projects, minerals production, etc.\n– Assistance and support to national and international mining sector companies\n– Promotion of partnership contracts\n\nThe acting Director General of OMNIS is Mr. Joeli Valerien Lalaharisaina, who was formerly its Deputy Director General.\n\n"}
{"id": "6492430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6492430", "title": "Pauline Neura Reilly", "text": "Pauline Neura Reilly\n\nPauline Neura Reilly OAM (5 December 1918 – 22 April 2011) was an Australian author and ornithologist.\n\nReilly was born (as Pauline Duncan) in Adelaide. Her family moved to Melbourne where she attended Korowa Anglican Girls' School and Melbourne Girls Grammar School until 1934. Before the Second World War she worked as a secretary, then served from 1942 to 1944 as a gunner in the Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force, as well as working for Australian Army Intelligence. She married Arthur Reilly in 1943.\n\nReilly joined the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union (RAOU) in 1956, which she served as Publicity Officer 1966–1967, on the Field Investigations Committee 1969–1972, as President 1972–1975, and as the Chair of the Atlas Committee 1976–1982. From 1969 to 1970 she was President of the Bird Banders' Association of Australia. From 1964 to 1981 she was the Honorary Regional Victorian Organiser of the Australian Bird and Bat Banding Scheme. One of her main achievements with the RAOU was the instigation, leadership and successful conclusion of the RAOU's first Atlas of Australian Birds project, fieldwork for which ran from 1 January 1977 to 31 December 1981.\n\nReilly was actively involved in ornithological fieldwork for many years, especially in studies of little penguins. In 1968 she founded the Penguin Study Group of the Victorian Ornithological Research Group. In 1973 she led an expedition to the Great Australian Bight to carry out penguin research. In 1978–79 she became the first woman to spend the summer research season on subantarctic Macquarie Island to band penguins. She was invited to open the Second International Penguin Conference in August 1992.\n\nIn later years Reilly moved to Aireys Inlet on the Victorian coast where she concentrated on writing a series of scientifically accurate children's books about Australian birds and other animals, mainly illustrated first by Will Rolland and later by Kaylene Traynor.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7106109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7106109", "title": "Petrosomatoglyph", "text": "Petrosomatoglyph\n\nA petrosomatoglyph is a supposed image of parts of a human or animal body in rock.\nThey occur all over the world, often functioning as an important form of symbolism, used in religious and secular ceremonies, such as the crowning of kings. Some are regarded as artefacts linked to saints or culture heroes.\n\nThe word comes from the Greek \"πέτρα – petra\" (\"stone\"), \"σῶμα – soma\" (\"body\"), and \"γλύφειν – glyphein\" (\"to carve\"). Feet are the most common; however, knees, elbows, hands, head, fingers, etc., are also found.\n\nStylised representations of parts of the body are often open to dispute and are therefore on the fringes of acceptability as identifiable petrosomatoglyphs. Natural objects, such as rock crystals and rock formations which look like petrosomatoglyphs, whole animals, plants, etc., are collectively called \"mimeoliths\".\n\nMany examples of petrosomatoglyphs are likely to be natural in origin, such as rock-cut basins in rivers; however they still have relevance as they have often become associated with Saints, legendary figures, fairies, etc.\n\nFeet are the most common; however, knees, mythological heroes, saints, etc. Some may be man-made but have become a petrosomatoglyph by the original function being forgotten.\n\nA typical example of a possibly re-used concavity is the footprint on Dunadd which some locals at one time thought was a cast for a bronze axe head. A pseudofossil of an apparent footprint of a human foot wearing a sandal with a trilobite fossil in the print has been quoted by anti-evolutionists to show that modern man did walk the earth at this time, around five hundred million years ago. The Burdick Print (or Burdick Track) from Glen Rose, Texas, USA, is claimed by some creationists to be part of a \"giant man track\", walking alongside dinosaurs.\n\nIn the \"Mabinogion\", the story is told of Culhwch and Olwen, and part of this relates to the hunting by King Arthur and his knights of the wild boar Twrch Trwyth with dogs. Cefn Carn Cafall (the ridge of Cafall's cairn) is a mountain near Builth in Breconshire where the footprint of King Arthur's favourite hunting dog, Cafall, is located in a conglomerate boulder on top of the cairn. If taken away, the boulder always mysteriously returns to its position on the cairn. Cafal or Cabal also appears in Geraint of the \"Mabinogion\" as Arthur's favourite hunting dog in the hunting of the white stag. The Black Dog of Blythburgh in Suffolk entered the church and killed a few people in its progress through the building before exiting and leaving its claw-marks on various stones in the building.\n\nIn Europe: Wales and Cornwall Royal and other horses were sacred to Epona, the horse-goddess. Near Castell Cilan in Gwynedd, North Wales, is a stone embedded in the ground bearing the hoof-print of King Einion's horse. At Llanllyfni in Wales is the hoof-print of the horse of St. Gredfyw. Close to Llyn Barfog in Wales is a hoof-print etched deep into the rock \"Carn March Arthur\", or the \"Stone of Arthur's Horse\", which was supposedly made by King Arthur's mount, Llamrai, when it was hauling the terrible Addanc, or \"afanc\" monster, from the lake. At the Creiqiau Tylwch near Llangurig Oliver Cromwell is said to have ridden his horse over the precipitous rocks and left behind a hoof print.\n\nNot far from the Devil's Quoit in St. Columb, on the edge of Goss Moor in Cornwall, is a large stone with four deeply impressed marks, known as \"King Arthur's Stone\". The marks are said to be footprints made by the horse upon which Arthur rode when he resided at Castle an Dinas and hunted on the moors. A Welsh legend has King Arthur pursuing Morgan le Fay, who turns herself into a stone. Arthur's steed leaps across the Bristol Channel, leaving its hoof-prints on a rock.\n\nIn Europe: Scotland At Loch Loran in Kilmichael, Argyll and Bute, are five flat stones bearing what may be natural markings improved by light pecking. They lie under water near the inlet at the northern end of the loch and can be best seen in dry weather. Two of the markings are called the \"Fairy Footprints\", and close behind them are two ovals and several \"V\"-hollows suggesting large hoof-prints. On Loch Etiveside, near Ben Cruachan in Argyll, is the place named \"Horseshoes\" indicating the stone by the loch's side where the horse belonging to the son of the winter hag (the Cailleach or Carlin) left its hoof-prints as it leapt across an arm of the sea. At Shielhill Bridge near Memus in Angus, Scotland, a Kelpie's cloven hoof mark is to be seen on a stone in the river. At Kelso in Roxburgh Street is the outline of a horseshoe where the horse of Prince Charles Edward Stuart cast a shoe as he was riding it through the town on his way to Carlisle in 1745. Sir Fergus Barclay, Baron of Ardrossan was in league with the devil, and in one of his dealings, he set the task of the devil to make ropes from sand; upon failing to do so, Satan kicked the castle with his hoof and left a hoof-print. A horse's hoof is carved on a rock at Eggerness in Galloway, Scotland.\n\nIn Europe: England At Tedstone Delamere in Herefordshire, England, the Sapey Brook runs its course to Upper Sapey. A mare and a colt had been stolen, and the hoof-prints stopped at the bank of the brook. The owner prayed for their safe return and, upon examining the bed of the brook, saw hoof-prints clearly visible in the rocky bottom. These hoof-prints were followed and, the thief caught, the horses being safely recovered. The nearby Hoar Stone is said to be the horse thief petrified for his crimes. A later version involves Saint Catherine of Ledbury as the owner of the horses.\n\nIn Asia A winged horse named El-Buraq, which had the face and breasts of a woman and the tail of a peacock, was tethered for a period of time on the Rock, or foundation stone of the Holy Jewish Temple in Israel, leaving a hoof-print on the Rock. It is said that the hoof print of Muhammad's steed, El Burak, from which he was propelled to heaven, can be seen imprinted in the Foundation Stone in Jerusalem.\n\nSt Victor Petroglyphs Provincial Park, Saskatchewan, Canada, features footprint petrosomatoglyphs of bison, deer, elk and antelope.\n\nCattle At South Lopham in Norfolk, England is the Ox-Foot Stone, which previously lay in a meadow still known as the Oxfoot Piece, and bears the supposed imprint of an ox's foot. The legend goes that in a time of great famine, a miraculous cow appeared and provided a never-ending supply of milk to the starving poor. When the famine ceased, the cow struck its hoof against the stone leaving the imprint and then vanished. The stone itself is a flattish slab of sandstone about 60 cm x 90 cm, likely deposited during the last ice age as a Glacial erratic, and the 'hoofprint' is probably the imprint of a fossil bivalve. This part of East Anglia has virtually no naturally occurring stone (local geology being boulder clay with flints overlaid on chalk), so the Stone's very existence would have been notable. The stone now stands outside the door of Oxfootstone Farm House.\n\nA sacred Celtic bull is said to have left its hoof print in a stone \"as if it were the softest wax\" in a legend relating to Saint Ninian.\n\nBears In Roseville, California, a bear footprint was carved into one portion of the Northstar stone representative of a bear walking in a docile manner, the back print overlapping with the print of the forepaw. A bear footprint carving is located in Northwestern California. A large carving representing the claw marks of a bear can be seen at Chaw'se, Indian Grinding Rock State Park, near Fiddletown, California. St Victor Petroglyphs Provincial Park, Saskatchewan, Canada, contains grizzly bear paw print petroglyphs.\n\nAt Loch Loran in Kilmichael, Argyll and Bute, are five flat stones bearing what may be natural markings improved by light pecking. They lie under water near the inlet at the northern end of the loch and can be best seen in dry weather. Two of the markings are called the \"Fairy Footprints\", being 11\" overall, close together, with narrow heels which point across the loch. The left foot has possibly artificially added toes. Close behind are two ovals and several \"V\"-hollows suggesting large hoof-prints. They were not located on a visit in 1970. On Wangan Island, one of the Penghu group between China and Taiwan, are a group of fairy footprints on the top of Tiantai hill. In the very remote Pony Hills, New Mexico, near the desert border with Mexico, are examples of shamanic rock art. The site is located around a spring-fed rock pool. The images depict a variety of spirit forms and also tiny carved footprints—the trail of Water Baby spirits trekking from one pool to another.\n\nAt the ruined Kirk of Lady, near Overbister on Sanday, Orkney, are the Devil's Fingermarks, incised as parallel grooves into the parapet of the kirk. In North Kingstown is a large, granite ledge known as Devil's Foot Rock. Legends going back to the colonial era tell of a Native woman being chased by the devil. Some say that she fled from Boston. Her pursuer is said to have left his footprints at Devil's Foot Rock, then at Chimney Hill in South Kingstown, and finally at Block Island.\nAt Dol de Bretagne in Brittany are found the claw mark of the devil on Mont Dol as well as the footprints of St. Michael. Near Holmfirth in Yorkshire, the devil left his footprints as scorch marks on Netherton Edge. One day, the devil disguised himself as a druid in an attempt to gain favour with the old priests but was discovered in his plans and so, in anger, flew out across the hills carrying a great stone with him, which he dropped from the skies, and it landed where the Hood Hill Stone still remains. Also, in anger, he jumped down and stood on the great rock and in doing so, left his footprint impressed upon the stone. The site is at Kilburn, Northallerton, in Yorkshire. In Lancashire, the devil threw stones at Clitheroe Castle and left his footprints in Deerstones Quarry near Pendle. At Castle Bentheim in Germany, there is a curious smooth rock that the devil used as a pillow, leaving behind an imprint of his ear. In Cologne, on a heavy stone called Teufelsstein, are imprinted the hands and talons of the devil. The Lugenstein in the cathedral square at Halberstadt was carried there by the devil to destroy the cathedral. It was too heavy, and he dropped it, leaving behind an imprint of his red hot thumb.\n\nSir Fergus Barclay, also known as the De'il of Ardrossan, was a horseman, famous around the lands for his tremendous skill. The secret to his skill, however, was a magical bridle, which was given to Barclay by the devil, in exchange for his soul. However, the devil was tricked by Barclay into giving his soul back. Infuriated by this trickery, the devil attacked the castle in his rage and is said to have left his hoof prints on one of the rocks.\n\nThe 'Packstone' is a huge whinstone block to be found at the farm of that name near Muirhead, Shotts. The story goes that the magician Michael Scot had relatives in the area and he employed the devil to build a bridge across the Firth of Forth at South Queensferry however he fell out with his builder and the devil threw down the 'pack' he was carrying and the marks of his shoulders are still to be seen on the stone.\n\nOn the eastern wall of the church of Saint Pancras in the ancient monastery of Saint Augustine outside Canterbury is to be seen the imprint of the devil's talons as he was furious that his heathen temple had become a Christian place of worship. On a coping stone of the Devil's Bridge at Kirkby Lonsdale in Cumbria are the fingermarks of the devil left behind when in his fury at being tricked out of a soul.\nAt the entrance to the Munich Frauenkirche church in Bavaria is located the Devil's Footstep or \"Teufelsschritt.\" This mark in a tile resembles a footprint, which according to legend was where the devil stood after he had made a deal with the builder to finance construction of the church on the condition that it contain no windows. The builder managed to trick the devil by siting columns so that the windows were not visible from the spot where the devil stood at the entrance. The devil eventually worked out that he had been tricked, however he could not enter a consecrated church and could only stand in the entrance foyer, stamping his foot furiously, leaving the footprint that remains visible in the church's entrance today.\n\nLegend also says the devil then rushed outside and manifested its evil spirit in the wind that furiously rages around the church.\n\nOn a natural stone in Cornwall is a foot-shaped impression in a rock in the valley leading to the cliffs and coastal footpath near Chapel Porth. It is said to be the foot mark of Giant Bolster of St Agnes legend. Just below the formation, there used to be a Holy Well dedicated to St Agnes, but it dried up due to the mining in the area. Footprints at North Yell, up Hena, in Shetland were thought to be lost but were rediscovered in 1969 by the ordnance survey. The footprint, 12\" by 4\", is known locally as the \"Wartie\" and was used to wash in dew or rainwater, and standing in it was supposed to get rid of warts. In legend, it was made by a giant placing one foot here and the other on the Westing of Unst. In Bristol, the giants Vincent and Goram dug the Avon gorge and left their footprints. Moso's Footprint in Samoa was made when the giant Moso stepped over to Samoa from Fiji, and the other footprint can be found on Viti Levu of Fiji. It is a 1 m by 3 m rock enclosure. At the foot of the Doa mountain in Vietnam, towards the west, is a big rock. There are two human footprints on the rock. It is said that the footprints belonged to a giant who used to help the villagers with the construction of their houses. One of the footprints has been damaged. At Arthur's Stone chambered tomb in Herefordshire is a \"cup mark\" stone which bears the imprints of a giant's (or king's) elbow, left behind after he fell dead to the ground, killed by King Arthur.\n\nThe \"Sri Pada\" footprint in the rock atop Adam's Peak, Sri Lanka is attributed to Adam by Christians and Muslims.\n\nThe \"Maqām Ibrāhīm\" (\"Abraham's place of standing\") is a rock kept in a crystal dome next to the Ka'bah in Mecca. The footprint in it is believed, by Muslim tradition, to have been made by Abraham when he was lifting stone blocks to build the Ka'bah.\n\nIn Islamic tradition, the Foundation Stone is where Muhammad ascended to heaven, and during this ascension, the rock itself started to rise at the southern end but was held down by the Archangel Gabriel, and some marks on the western side of the rock are said to be the fingerprints of Gabriel.\n\nThe footprints of the Buddha abound throughout Asia, dating from various periods. Japanese author , who spent years tracking down the footprints in many Asian countries, estimates that he found more than 3,000 such footprints, among them about 300 in Japan and more than 1,000 in Sri Lanka. They often bear distinguishing marks, such as a Dharmachakra at the centre of the sole, or the 32, 108 or 132 auspicious signs of the Buddha, engraved or painted on the sole.\n\nBuddhist legend holds that during his lifetime the Buddha flew to Sri Lanka and left his footprint on Adam's Peak to indicate the importance of Sri Lanka as the perpetuator of his teachings, and also left footprints in all lands where his teachings would be acknowledged. In Thailand, the most important of these \"natural\" footprints imbedded in rock is at Phra Phutthabat in Central Thailand. In China, during Tang Dynasty, the discovery of a large footprint of the Buddha in Chengzhou caused Empress Wu Zetian to inaugurate a new reign name in that year, 701 CE, starting the Dazu (Big Foot) era.\n\nThere are two forms: natural, as found in stone or rock, and those made artificially. Many of the \"natural\" ones, of course, are acknowledged not to be actual footprints of the Buddha, but replicas or representations of them, which can be considered \"cetiya\" (Buddhist relics) and also an early aniconic and symbolic representation of the Buddha.\n\nAt the Chapel of the Ascension in Jerusalem, there are a pair of footprints reputed to be those of Jesus made at the time of his Ascension into heaven. These are sometimes shown in medieval depictions of the Ascension in art.\n\nThe church of Saint Sebastian Outside the Walls in Rome houses a stone which, according to tradition, bears the footprints of Jesus when he appeared to Saint Peter on the Appian Way. A copy of these footprints is preserved, as an ex voto offering, at the Church of Domine Quo Vadis, the chapel marking the traditional spot of Jesus' appearance to Peter.\n\nHenry III of England was given a piece of white marble which allegedly carried a trace of one of Jesus' feet, which he had left as a souvenir to his apostles after his Ascension. Henry gave this relic to Westminster Abbey. This may simply have been a votive copy of the footprint in the Chapel of the Ascension.\n\nIn Wales, the knees and breasts of Mary are said to be imprinted on a rock beside her well at Ffynnon Fair, Llanfair, between Barmouth and Harlech in Gwynedd. Marks said to be her footprint and thumb-print are to be found nearby. Two other Mary footprints are recorded in the vicinity at Llan Maria (St. Mary) near Llanbedr, and Wenallt Hill at Llanaber.\n\nAt Pochayiv Lavra in western Ukraine, there is a footprint which by tradition was left in the stone by the Theotokos (Virgin Mary) after her miraculous appearance to two monks in the 15th century. A spring of water which is believed to have miraculous powers flows from the footprint to this day.\n\nAt the Qubbat al-Sanaya (the Dome of the Front Teeth) the mark made by the Muhammad's tooth is to be found on a stone in a wall. Muhammad was attacked and lost a tooth during the incident. A mark on a stone wall is said to have been made when the tooth fell. Muhammad's footprints are (by Islamic tradition) found in numerous places, such as the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem, in Damascus, and in mosques in West Bengal, Bangladesh and Gudjarat. It is said that the hoof print of Muhammad's steed al-Burāq, upon which he was propelled to heaven, can be seen imprinted in the Foundation Stone.\n\nThe footprint in the rock at Hampi is attributed to that of Rama.\n\nThe \"Sri Pada\" footprint in the rock atop Adam's Peak, Sri Lanka is attributed to that of Shiva by Hindus (and the Buddha by Buddhists).\n\nThe Romans were accustomed to carve pairs of footprints on a stone with the inscription \"pro itu et reditu\", \"for the journey and return\". They used them for protective rites on leaving for a journey and for thanksgiving for a safe return, when the traveler would place his feet in the footprints to mark the beginning or end of the undertaking. This same story is told of King Maelgwn of Gwynedd in North Wales, who placed his feet in carved footprints to ensure his safe return from a pilgrimage to Rome.\n\nIn northern Europe, rock footprints were closely associated with Kingship or Chieftainship. Saxo Grammaticus notes that \"The ancients, when they came to choose a King, stood on stones planted in the ground to proclaim their votes, signifying from the steadfastness of the stones that the deed would be lasting.\"\n\nStanding on a special stone is a link between the king and the land from which his people earned their food. Links with King Arthur and \"The Sword in the Stone\" may be relevant in this context of kingship, a right to power over his subjects and links with nature. A similar idea seems to be associated with the Moot hill, or Boot Hill, at Scone, for the latter name comes from an ancient tradition whereby emissaries swore fealty to their king by wearing the earth of their own lands in their foot-bindings or boots.\n\nThe upper echelons of the clergy of the Celtic Church were drawn from the nobility; indeed, even some kings retired to become monks and eventually even saints, as in the case of King Constantine of Cornwall, who retired to Govan on the Clyde in Scotland. This meant that the association of stone footprints was also made with the saints, bishops and others.\n\nThe poet Spenser states that the custom amongst the Irish was to place the man who is to be chief upon a stone, always reserved for that purpose alone and located on a hill. Some of these had a footprint cut into them which was the size and shape of the candidate's. The oath was taken with the foot in the footprint, the individual swearing that as chief he would preserve all the ancient customs and respect the laws of royal inheritance.\n\nA \"Locus terribilis\" is a sacred place into which only a divine or sacred person could enter. Petrosomatoglyph footprints for the ordination of kings would be an example, for it was believed that only the rightful king was able to use them for the purpose that they were intended. Footprints may also have to do with the cult of the ancestors, whose spirits dwell in the stone, so that a newly invested King would have received the luck or mana of his predecessors through contact with it.\n\nFootprints have been found in Sweden, Denmark, Italy, Sri Lanka (Adam's Foot), and Uganda.\n\nIn Ayr, on the southern bank of the River Ayr is 'Wallace's Heel', a natural sandstone slab from which flows a small spring. Sir William Wallace is said to have left the imprint behind whilst rushing to escape English soldiers who were pursuing him. He later returned to the spring, and dug out a bigger hole to get fresh water for him and his soldiers. Among cup and ring marks on a boulder at Carnasserie, two miles (3 km) from Kilmartin in Argyll, are carved a pair of feet. At St. Mary's Church in Burwick, South Ronaldsay, Orkney, is the Ladykirk Stone on which St. Magnus is said to have sailed over the Pentland Firth. It has two clear footprints cut into it. A pair of footprints is carved in a stone slab in a causeway at the Broch of Clickhimin (or Clickemin), Lerwick, in Shetland. This site was occupied from about 1000 BC to AD 500. Two footprints are to be found at Dunadd (Dun Monaidh), ancient capital of the Gaelic kingdom of Dál Riata. The completed one faces north and is accompanied by an image of a boar, rock-basins possibly cut for ceremonial ablutions and an ogham inscription. This footprint is said to be that of Oisin or Fergus Mor Mac Erca, the first King of Dalriada, who died in AD 501. St. Columba is said to have installed Aidan as King on this rock. The best preserved footprint is 27 cm long, nearly 11 cm wide, 9 cm across at the heel and 2.5 cm deep; so large that it would fit a foot clothed in a shoe or boot. A second, incomplete footprint is a lightly pecked outline of a shod right foot, 24 cm long and 10 cm in maximum width. It has a pronounced taper to the heel; further internal peck-marks suggest that it was to have been hollowed out. It is on the same alignment as the other footprint.\n\nA crag near the chapel of Keil and St. Columba's Well, between Dunaverty Bay and Carskey in Kintyre, has two footprints carved at a place where St. Columba is reputed to have first set foot in Dalriada, Scotland. One is recent, and the other genuinely old. Kingship rituals may have been connected with this petrosomatoglyph. St. Columba's footprints are to be found at Southend in Argyll. Two examples exist in Angus. The caves below Keil Point on the Isle of Arran contain a slab which may have been an ancient altar. It has the prints of two right feet on it, said to be of Saint Columba. The Giant Fingal of Arran is said to have had a son born in the King's Cave who left a footprint on the cave side. On Islay, there was a Stone of Inauguration by Finlaggan. It was seven feet square and had footprints cut into it. When a chief of the Clan Donald was installed as the King of the Isles, he stood barefoot on the imprints on the stone, and with his father's stone in his hand, was anointed King by the Bishop of Argyll and seven priests. During the ceremony, an orator recited a list of his ancestors and, he was proclaimed \"Macdonald, high prince of the seed of Conn\". The block was deliberately destroyed in the early seventeenth century. At Spittal, near Drymen, is a footprint which may be due to natural weathering. It is located at the western end of a long ridge of natural rock outcrop. A quarry for two millstones is nearby. At Craigmaddie Muir, Baldernock, East Dunbartonshire is the Auld Wives Lifts. This is a complicated assemblage of carvings on a rock platform. On the rock are serpent-like forms, crosses, cups and an impression of the right foot of an adult. At Dunino Den (56.28° N 02.76° W NO5311), near St Andrews in Fife, is a footprint and a basin carved in the surface of a sandstone outcrop. A Celtic cross has been carved nearby, possibly as an attempt to Christianise the site.\n\nClose to St. Olann's Well at Coolineagh, near Coachford, County Cork, are the footprints of St. Olann on a boulder. In the garden of Belmont, on the Greencastle Road, about a mile from Derry, there was, in 1837, a block called St. Columba's Stone with two footprints on it. It may have been the inauguration stone of the Kings of Aileach, brought here by the local Chief of Derry. On the Clare Hills in Ireland, on the Gort to Feakle road in the townland of Drumandoora, is the engraved outline or impression of a foot clothed by a sandal. On the Hill of Lech, or, previously, Mullach Leaght, the \"Hill of the Stone\", three miles (5 km) southwest of Monaghan in Ireland, was the inauguration stone of the Mac Mahons. It was used in 1595 and destroyed by a farm owner in 1809.\nAt Clonmacnoise, County Offaly, Ireland, close to the Chapel of Clonfinlough. there are several limestone boulders, one of which is called the Fairy's or Horseman's Stone. It has many cup-shaped hollows, crosses, daggers, and a pair of human feet. At Templemore in County Londonderry is a slab named St. Columbkille's Stone. It has the imprint of two feet, each ten inches (254 mm) in length. Traditionally, it was the inauguration stone of the ancient Irish chieftains. Saint Columba's Stone near Derry has two depressions like the marks of feet. The O'Doherty's are said to have stood on this stone with bare feet at their inaugurations. At Slievenamon (The Mountain of the Women), at South Tipperary in Ireland, is the rock that bears the footprints of Goll—\"the One-Eyed\"—who made a giant leap across the valley to catch up with the hunt of the Fianna.\nThe West Pier in Howth Harbour, Dublin, displays a specimen of footprints from King George IV's visit in 1821.\n\n\nThe Swearing Stone found at Castleward earthwork was probably used in inauguration ceremonies.\n\nA passage-grave at Petit-Mont Arzon in Brittany contains a stone with a pair of feet, toes pointing upwards. Sharkey sees these carvings as coming from the same artistic tradition as those on the Calderstones. At Dol de Bretagne in Brittany are found the footprints of St. Michael on Mont Dol as well as a claw mark of the devil. At Petit-Mont passage grave near Arzon in Brittany can be found the relief of two upturned feet.\n\n\n\nThe petroglyphs of footprints are very common in France. Some of them are\n\n\nThe Laetoli footprints are hominid tracks left behind in then-soft volcanic ash nearly 3.7 million years ago. The prints were discovered by Mary Leakey and others in 1978.\n\nA set of Jesus's footprints, according to legend, are preserved at the Church of Domine Quo Vadis outside of Rome. In Buddhist symbolism, a \"Buddhapada\" (footprint of the Buddha) with Dharmacakra and Triratna symbols from the 1st century is to be found at Gandhāra, Northern Pakistan.\n\nSweden's rich flora of petroglyphs include many hundred footprints, singles and in pairs.\n\nOn Sri Pada, or Adam's Peak, a mountain in Sri Lanka, is a footprint mark said by Buddhists to be that of the left foot of the Buddha, the right footprint being in a city about 150 kilometres distant, or at Phra Sat in Thailand. Tamil Hindus consider it to be the footprint of Shiva. Some Muslims and Christians ascribe it to Adam, where Adam the \"first ancestor\" is said to have set foot as he was exiled from the Garden of Eden. Sometimes Christians ascribe it to Saint Thomas, the \"Apostle of India\". Footprints of the Buddha also exist in Afghanistan, Bhutan, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Laos, Malaysia, the Maldives, Pakistan, Singapore, and Burma. The St. Victor's Petroglyphs in Provincial Park, Saskatchewan, Canada, feature human footprints.\n\nA human-like footprint in volcanic ash was discovered in 1970 during the construction of the Demirköprü Dam in Turkey. The ash was dated as having been deposited about 250,000 years ago.\n\nA tradition of body-part impressions at holy wells, rivers and beneath waterfalls comes from the fact that Celtic monks or culdees often prayed in such places, continuing the veneration of the Druids for sacred water. Folk belief ascribes healing powers to waters taken from these holy impressions, and this water was used to cure sickness, wounds and sores, as well as preventing or curing sickness in animals such as cattle.\n\nAt Llangynnlo in Wales are Olgliniau Cynllo, the knee prints of King Cynllo at prayer. At Troedraur in Dyfed, South Wales are the knee-marks of St. Gwyndaf Hen impressed on a flat rock in the bed of the River Ceri. These are 'pot holes' or Rock-cut basins made by the grinding effect of stone in the river currents to the sceptics. St Cynwyl in the river at Caio in Wales. St. Beuno at Llanaelhaiarn in Wales. At Arthur's Stone chambered tomb in Hereford & Worcester is a cup-mark stone which bears the imprints of King Arthur's knees left behind after he prayed to God in thanks for victory over a giant (or king) whom he had killed and whose tomb this is. At Llanllyfni in Wales are the knee prints of St. Gredfyw.\n\nJohn O'Donovan, in his Ordnance Survey Letters of 1840, tells the story of Saint Moling crossing a small hill in the County Wexford district, when an evil spirit annoyed him. He knelt on a rock to curse the spirit, leaving the impression of his knees on the stone. While there is no account of the stone today, it is said that the incident gave the name to the townland Cloch na Mallacht, i.e. \"the stones of the curses\", linking the episode to Bullaun stones which often contain cursing stones.\n\nNear St Fillan's Kirk in Renfrewshire there is recorded a large flat rock called the 'Kneelins Stane' that had three depressions, two made by the knees of pilgrims and the third made by their staffs.\n\nA diminutive pair of hands are carved on a boulder beside the Crinan Canal in Argyll. The St. Victor's Petroglyphs Provincial Park, in Saskatchewan, Canada, feature hand-prints. From Waldenbuch in Germany is a four-sided stone pillar with scroll carving and a left arm and hand. At Oberhasli on the road to Gadmen near Meiringen in Switzerland is the Sterbensstein, a rock with the impression of a hand and several fingers left by a dying man after he had been attacked. Near Minden in the Geismarwald on the Totenberg in Germany, an army leader who before a battle in the Thirty Years' War declared that he had as much chance of winning as he had of the stone becoming soft. It did, and his foot- and hand-prints are still there to be seen by all.\n\nA carved left hand is to be found on the wall of the Decorated Hall in the Hypogeum of Ħal-Saflieni on Malta. It measures 8¼\" by 4\". At Arthur's Stone chambered tomb in Hereford and Worcester is a \"cup mark\" stone which bears the imprints of a king's or giant's elbow, left behind after he fell dead to the ground, killed by King Arthur. The Petroglyph National Monument has an estimated 20,000 carved images, including many of hands. These images are inseparable from the cultural landscape, the spirits of the people who created and who appreciate them. At Barnakill near Dunardy in Argyll is a stone bearing two hand prints. The hands appear to have a covering; one may be the back of the hand having interesting designs, the other being the palm with some faint markings.\n\nAt Llanllyfni in Wales is the thumb print of St. Gredfyw. Near Strathpeffer in Scotland is the finger and thumb print of a dwarf associate of Finn Mac Cuill on an old gate post near to the Pictish Eagle Stone.\n\nIn Argyll and Bute, Kilneuair's kirk has inside, to the east of the nave door, a sandstone block bearing a now almost invisible five-toed print with nails on three of the toes and which is referred to as 'the Devil's hand'. The story goes that a local tailor did not believe in the Devil and Old Nick appeared as a skeleton just missing the man and scratching the wall with his bone hand.\n\nAt St. Mary's Church in Newchurch-in-Pendle, an eye is carved on the tower, said to be the all-seeing eye of God. Local tradition says that it was originally placed there to protect the worshippers from the witches who once plagued the district. In Almería, Spain, is a carved limestone pillar with eyes or the oculos / oculi motif. The eyes have eyebrows and/or accentuating arcs. An \"eye goddess\" may have existed as shown by many other examples of carved oculi. The Folkton \"drums\" are made of chalk and are elaborately carved, with distinct oculi or eyes. Petrospheres or carved stone balls from Scotland, especially the Aberdeen area, often have concentric carved lines, some of which appear to be stylised oculi. Pecked carvings of \"eyebrows\" are found on a lintel inside Holm of Papa Westray south chambered cairn, Orkney. They are similar to the 'owlish' eyes and eyebrows carved on the Folkton Drums. The Food-vessel peoples at the Tregulland barrow near Bodmin moor in Cornwall had placed slate slabs around the central burial bearing circular pecked hollows resembling oculi, presumably having a protective function for the person buried within.\n\nSikhara top of Bayon at Angkor Wat complex are carved in the image of Hindu-Buddhist Khmer kings.\n\nThe Celts are well known for their cult of the \"severed head\" of which many examples exist as three-dimensional carvings or sculptures. Petrosomatoglyphs are much rarer. Pump Sant Stone near Carmarthen in Wales has the imprint in it of the heads of the five saints, named Ceitho, Celynnin, Gwyn, Gwyno and Gwynoro. The stone is made of Diorite, a very hard stone brought from another district. It stands on a mound facing the Ogofau Lodge of Dolaucothi House, near to the Roman Gold Mines. It has depressions on all four faces characteristic of the wear produced from crushing quartz.\n\nThe Serpent Stone from a Roman cemetery in Maryport in Cumbria has a Celtic severed head wearing a torc carved on the top of a phallic-shaped pillar. On the back is a carving of a serpent. At Tarren Deusant, Llantrisant in Mid-Glamorgan is a pagan site with two heads originally carved, showing incised eyebrows and slit mouths characteristic of some Celtic cult heads. Six other heads have been carved since 1696, when they were first recorded. The Husjatyn god-pillar from the River Zbrucz in Galicia, Poland, has several heads carved on its four sides, together with images of horses, people and weapons. A pointed stone from Rottenburg am Neckar, at Stammheim in Stuttgart, has a rudimentary human face carved on it. From Entremont, Bouches-du-Rhône in France is a four-sided stone pillar with numerous engraved stone heads. The pillar came from the Celtic sanctuary which was destroyed by the Romans in 124 BC. At Alderly Edge, Cheshire, England, is the face of Merlin carved into the native rock face of a crag.\n\nTwo carved stone heads are located at Chapelhall House, Innellan, Argyll. One resembles a Celtic stone head and may indeed be one, the other is more likely to have been a corbel in the early medieval chapel that lay nearby. St. Aid, or Áed mac Bricc, was Bishop of Killare in the 6th century. At Saint Aid's birth, his head had hit a stone, leaving a hole that collected rainwater that cured all ailments, thus linking it with the Irish tradition of Bullaun stones. On the Victorian viaduct in the Pass of Killiecrankie is a well-defined face carved into one ashlar block.\n\nSaint Aid or Áed mac Bricc was Bishop of Killare in 6th-century. At Saint Aid's birth his head had hit a stone, leaving a petrosomatoglyph type hole in which collected rainwater that cured all ailments, identifying it also with the Irish tradition of Bullaun stones and possible links to cup and ring mark stones.\n\nIt has been stated that many of the signs or symbols which accompany maze or geometric patterns from sites such as Newgrange in Ireland are identifiable or interpretable as human, the womb (lens symbol), the pubic area (lozenge symbol), fallopian horns (ram's horns), the female form (hour-glass symbol), breasts (\"w\" or omega symbol), etc. The vesica piscis shape as found on the lid of the Chalice Well at Glastonbury includes an almond- or lozenge-shaped central area that is seen as a possible representation of the female genitals. Meehan does not, however, clearly indicate his sources for these interpretations.\n\nIn the gallery-grave of Kerguntuil at Tregastel in Brittany are nine pairs of breasts above engraved necklaces.\n\nBarclodiad y Gawres is a passage-grave on Anglesey with its internal surfaces decorated with lozenges, chevrons, wavy lines and spirals. The whole tomb has been likened to a womb, that of the Mother Goddess. These symbols are also commonly used in passage graves found in Ireland and Brittany. Triangular stones are sometimes regarded as being representations of the female sexual organs or overall body shape. At Boscawen un stone circle in Cornwall, a leaning central standing stone and a large white quartz boulder may represent the male and female elements of nature. At Carn Euny Iron Age village in Cornwall is a fogou which may represent the womb of the Great Earth Mother.\n\nAt Avebury and West Kennet Avenue in Wiltshire, the tall pillar and \"broad diamond shape\" stones were used alternately in the stone circles, possibly symbolising males and females at this famous pagan ritual site. Stoney Littleton Long Barrow near Bath has been likened to a \"womb-tomb\" of the Great Goddess who awaited the return of the sun.\n\nTolmen stones, such as the example on the North Teign river on Dartmoor, England, are said to derive their name from the Cornish \"tol\" (\"hole\") and \"maen\" (\"stone\") and were thought to have been used by Druids for purification and that the wrongdoer was lowered through into the water for lustration, a purification rite or cleansing ritual. The hole in the stone represented the female birth canal in the Druid or pagan mind, and by passing through it, a person was symbolising the act of rebirth and therefore regaining innocence or being cleansed of post-parturition illness, etc.\n\nShivalinga is carved in numerous Hindu temples across Indian subcontinent and southeast asia, including in Angkor Wat, rock-cut temples in India such as Aihole, Ajanta Caves, Amarnath Temple, Badami cave temples, Ellora Caves, Gavi Gangadhareshwara Temple, Hampi, Hulimavu Shiva cave temple, Mahabalipuram, Masroor Rock Cut Temple, Udaygiri Caves, Vaishno Devi, etc.\n\nMany references have been made to the obviously phallic appearance of standing stones. It is suggested that they may serve as stylised representations of the phallus, the purpose of which is to magically enhance the fertility of humans, animals and crops. A number of practices which are supposed to give fertility to barren women are linked to standing stones throughout Europe. At Avebury and West Kennet Avenue in Wiltshire, the tall pillar and broad diamond shape stones were used alternately in the stone circles, possibly symbolising males and females at these famous pagan ritual sites. At Boscawen un stone circle in Cornwall, a leaning central standing stone and a large white quartz boulder may represent the male and female elements of nature. The Maypole is often considered a phallic symbol, coinciding with the worship of Germanic phallic figures such as that of Freyr.\n\nPhallic fertility symbols were carved for good luck, and they were also a powerful antagonist to the evil eye. The Romans regularly carved them onto military buildings, and Hadrian's Wall has several at Chesters and Housesteads forts. One at Barcombe Hill shows a crude phallus and testicles with the legs of a chicken. In Portugal, phalli are represented together with cup-marks, zig-zags, straggly-lines, etc., on the ninety or so stones of the 4000-year-old \"Cromeleque dos Almendres\" near Évora. At Valhaugen in Norway a realistic representation of a phallus has been found and restored.\n\nAt Portpatrick on the Island of St. Kilda, there is the impression of a pair of knees and a right hand, said to be those of St. Patrick in the posture of prayer. In Cornwall, St. Newlyna knelt on a stone and left the impression of her elbows and knees in the posture of prayer. At Llanllyfni are found stones with the knee-prints, thumb and bed of St. Gredfyw. Medicine Rock in the USA was located on a hill fifteen miles (24 km) west of Gettysburg, near the mouth of the Cheyenne Creek. Indians considered it to be a sacred rock and visited it regularly. Five footprints, hand prints and animal prints were originally visible, made by the Great Spirit of the Native Americans.\n\nLocated at Smithills Hall, near Bolton in Lancashire, is the impressed footprint at the bottom of a set of stairs of George Marsh, a Protestant martyr. In 1555, Marsh was interrogated at Smithills Hall and then taken to Boughton in Cheshire and burnt at the stake for the sake of his faith. It is said that the footprint is a divine reminder of this unjust persecution and murder.\nOften, impressions of hands are made in concrete to commemorate the famous as at Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood (USA) on pavement slabs or in wet concrete. Making footprints in stone of family members is part of New Age beliefs.\n\nIn Sarajevo, there is a preserved square of footpath or pavement asphalt with two shoe prints which are believed to be those of Gavrilo Princip, made as he waited for the arrival of the motorcade of the Austrian Archduke Ferdinand in June 1914. The Archduke's assassination precipitated the start of the Great War.\n"}
{"id": "85747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85747", "title": "Reduced mass", "text": "Reduced mass\n\nIn physics, the reduced mass is the \"effective\" inertial mass appearing in the two-body problem of Newtonian mechanics. It is a quantity which allows the two-body problem to be solved as if it were a one-body problem. Note, however, that the mass determining the gravitational force is \"not\" reduced. In the computation one mass \"can\" be replaced with the reduced mass, if this is compensated by replacing the other mass with the sum of both masses. The reduced mass is frequently denoted by formula_1 (mu), although the standard gravitational parameter is also denoted by formula_1 (as are a number of other physical quantities). It has the dimensions of mass, and SI unit kg.\n\nGiven two bodies, one with mass \"m\" and the other with mass \"m\", the equivalent one-body problem, with the position of one body with respect to the other as the unknown, is that of a single body of mass\n\nwhere the force on this mass is given by the force between the two bodies.\n\nThe reduced mass is always less than or equal to the mass of each body:\n\nand has the reciprocal additive property:\n\nwhich by re-arrangement is equivalent to half of the harmonic mean.\n\nIn the special case that formula_6:\n\nIf formula_8, then formula_9.\n\nThe equation can be derived as follows.\n\nUsing Newton's second law, the force exerted by body 2 on body 1 is\n\nThe force exerted by body 1 on body 2 is\n\nAccording to Newton's third law, the force that body 2 exerts on body 1 is equal and opposite to the force that body 1 exerts on body 2:\n\nTherefore,\n\nand\n\nThe relative acceleration a between the two bodies is given by\n\nSo we conclude that body 1 moves with respect to the position of body 2 as a body of mass equal to the reduced mass.\n\nAlternatively, a Lagrangian description of the two-body problem gives a Lagrangian of\n\nwhere formula_17 is the position vector of mass formula_18 (of particle \"formula_19\"). The potential energy \"V\" is a function as it is only dependent on the absolute distance between the particles. If we define \nand let the centre of mass coincide with our origin in this reference frame, i.e. \nthen\n\nThen substituting above gives a new Lagrangian\n\nwhere\n\nis the reduced mass. Thus we have reduced the two-body problem to that of one body.\n\nReduced mass can be used in a multitude of two-body problems, where classical mechanics is applicable.\n\nIn a system with two point masses m and m such that they are co-linear, the center of mass may be found via \n\nformula_25. \n\nThe moment of inertia of this system in the center of mass frame of reference is a two-body problem with two masses, each with its own distance to the center of mass. By converting to the equivalent reduced mass frame of reference, the system may be treated as a single reduced mass, μ, with a distance, d, equal to the sum of x and x. This is because the rotational axis of the reduced mass frame of reference is through the combined mass, M (the sum of m and m) \n\nformula_26\n\nformula_27\n\nformula_28\n\nThe combined mass M is eliminated in the determination of the moment of inertia of the system since it is a point particle (making M the same size as μ, but with greater mass. Images not drawn to scale) along the axis of rotation (via the parallel axis theorem, it's contribution of MR would be zero since R=0 because M and μ are \"also\" point masses). Determining the moment of inertia of the reduced mass (μ) system is equivalent to determining the moment of inertia of the center of mass system. \n\nformula_29\n\nIn a collision with a coefficient of restitution \"e\", the change in kinetic energy can be written as \n\nwhere v is the relative velocity of the bodies before collision.\n\nFor typical applications in nuclear physics, where one particle's mass is much larger than the other the reduced mass can be approximated as the smaller mass of the system. The limit of the reduced mass formula as one mass goes to infinity is the smaller mass, thus this approximation is used to ease calculations, especially when the larger particle's exact mass is not known.\n\nIn the case of the gravitational potential energy \nwe find that the position of the first body with respect to the second is governed by the same differential equation as the position of a body with the reduced mass orbiting a body with a mass equal to the sum of the two masses, because\n\nConsider the electron (mass \"m\") and proton (mass \"m\") in the hydrogen atom. They orbit each other about a common centre of mass, a two body problem. To analyze the motion of the electron, a one-body problem, the reduced mass replaces the electron mass\n\nand the proton mass becomes the sum of the two masses\n\nThis idea is used to set up the Schrödinger equation for the hydrogen atom.\n\n\"Reduced mass\" may also refer more generally to an algebraic term of the form \n\nthat simplifies an equation of the form\n\nThe reduced mass is typically used as a relationship between two system elements in parallel, such as resistors; whether these be in the electrical, thermal, hydraulic, or mechanical domains. A similar expression appears in the transversal vibrations of beams for the elastic moduli. This relationship is determined by the physical properties of the elements as well as the continuity equation linking them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39502742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39502742", "title": "Robert Duce", "text": "Robert Duce\n\nRobert A. Duce (born April 9, 1935) is a pioneer in the study of atmospheric chemistry, and a Distinguished Professor Emeritus at Texas A&M University. He has made significant contributions to the understanding of chemical exchanges between the atmosphere and the oceans, and the global cycle of trace elements.\nDuce received a BS, chemistry (1957) from Baylor University and a PhD in the subject of inorganic and nuclear chemistry (1964) at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was also a post-doctoral fellow. (1965) His thesis title was \"Determination of iodine, bromine, and chlorine in the marine atmosphere by neutron activation analysis\".\n\nDuce served as Assistant, then Associate Professor of Chemistry at the University of Hawaii from 1965 to 1970, when he move to Associate professor of Oceanography at the University of Rhode Island. In 1973 he became full professor at the University of Rhode Island, and held that position until 1987, when he was promoted to Dean, Graduate School of Oceanography and Vice Provost for Marine Affairs. In 1987 he was appointed Dean, College of Geosciences and Maritime Studies at Texas A&M University. In 1997 he resigned his position as Dean, and remained at Texas A&M University as Professor of Oceanography and Professor of Atmospheric Sciences. He received the honor of University Distinguished Professor in 2006. He remains University Distinguished Professor Emeritus, Oceanography and Atmospheric Sciences to the present.\n\nDuce has served with a vast number of national and international organizations, including:\n\n\nHe was the recipient of a festschrift in 2013, the American Meteorological Society 2013 Robert A. Duce Symposium.\n\n"}
{"id": "3055553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3055553", "title": "Robert Hanson (United States Army Air Forces)", "text": "Robert Hanson (United States Army Air Forces)\n\nRobert John Hanson (May 25, 1920 – October 1, 2005) served on board the B-17 bomber aircraft the \"Memphis Belle\" during the Second World War.\n\nRobert Hanson was born in Walla Walla, Washington state on May 25, 1920.\n\nHe and his two brothers were placed in an orphanage following the death of his mother when he was young. His father was a road builder and regularly absent. An uncle took them out of the orphanage and raised them at Garfield, Washington. While there, Robert was a star at athletics at high school.\n\nHis sporting prowess saw him win a baseball scholarship to university. However, Robert opted to go straight into work and became a construction worker in Spokane. From there Robert enlisted in the US Army in the summer of 1941. However, he determined not to become an infantryman after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour and volunteered for radio training which saw his transfer to the US Army Air Forces.\n\nWhen training at Walla Walla, he was assigned to the \"Memphis Belle\".\n\nThe crew flew the \"Memphis Belle\" to their wartime base in the United Kingdom in September 1942. From there they flew against targets in France and Nazi Germany between November 7, 1942, and May 17, 1943. The air raids amounted to 148 hours of flying and over 60 tonnes of bombs dropped.\n\nThe first raid on November 7 was against the dockyard at Brest in France. The crew's other missions came approximately every 10 days attacking the ports of France, Belgium and Nazi Germany.\n\nHanson carried a lucky rabbit's foot on their missions.\n\nThe crew had some close shaves: on one occasion the tail of the aircraft was shot away. This happened on January 23, 1943, while attacking the submarine pens at Lorient in France. As Hanson related -\n\nThe \"Memphis Belle\" made it back to base with 68 rips in the fabric of the fuselage.\n\nOn another occasion Hanson sneezed while writing in his logbook. At that moment a bullet passed through the space previously occupied by his head, striking his logbook. He kept the book for the rest of his life.\n\nThe first aircraft to complete at tour of 25 missions was the Hot Stuff, a B-24 Liberator bomber. However, it crashed into a mountain en route to the United States in bad weather. The \"Memphis Belle\" was selected to return to the United States in its place upon completing their 25-mission tour.\n\nAfter finishing their tour the crew were introduced to King George VI and Queen Elizabeth. They then returned to the United States to take part in a 32-city tour to raise morale and sell war bonds. They were accompanied on the tour by their Highland Terrier mascot called Stuka.\n\nTheir arrival back in the United States took place at Long Beach on August 19, 1943, to the cheers of thousands Douglas Aircraft Company workers.\n\nFor the remainder of his life, Hanson used his wartime Morse Code sign-off of \"dit, dit, dit, dah, dit, dah\" to end telephone calls.\n\nAfter his wartime service Hanson returned to Washington state. He worked for Nalley Fine Foods in Walla Walla as a salesman and subsequently a regional manager. He also worked for a Spokane candy company. Upon retirement he moved to Mesa, Arizona, and later Albuquerque in New Mexico.\n\nIn 1942 Hanson married Irene Payton, who survived him along with their son and daughter. However, he was predeceased by another daughter.\n\nHanson appears in the 1944 documentary '' directed by William Wyler.\n\nThere was also a 1990 film 'Memphis Belle' directed by Michael Caton-Jones.\n\nDuring the 1989 production Hanson visited the cast during filming at RAF Binbrook in the United Kingdom. Hanson joked, \"They're not quite as good-looking as we were ... but they are young and enthusiastic – exactly like we were\".\n\nAfter the release of the film Hanson spoke to his grandson's high school class. When asked if what happened in the film was true, he replied \"No, it didn't all happen to the \"Memphis Belle\", but everything in the movie happened to some B-17\".\n"}
{"id": "40032590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40032590", "title": "Rouge Bouquet", "text": "Rouge Bouquet\n\nRouge Bouquet is a part of the Forêt de Parroy near the French village of Baccarat that was the site of a German artillery bombardment of American trench positions on 7 March 1918 at 15:20 on the Chausailles sector of the Western Front during World War I. The bombardment resulted in the burial of 21 men of the 165th Infantry Regiment, 42nd Rainbow Division (originally the 69th Regiment of the New York National Guard) of which only a few survived. The 22 men, including their platoon commander 1st Lieutenant John Norman, were assembled in a dugout when a German artillery shell landed on the roof of the dugout. A rescue effort by Major William J. \"Wild Bill\" Donovan was begun in haste attempting to dig the men but their efforts were hampered by mud-slides and continued enemy shelling. Two men were rescued and five dead were recovered before efforts had to be halted. The voices of other men could be heard for a while, but the remaining fifteen men died before rescue efforts could resume. Donovan was awarded the French Croix de Guerre for his actions during the attempted rescue.\n\nPoet and literary critic Joyce Kilmer, a sergeant with the regiment, wrote the 1918 poem \"Rouge Bouquet\" (also called \"The Wood Called Rouge Bouquet\" to commemorate the soldiers in his unit who died. The poem was first read by Kilmer at the memorial service held on the battlefield a few days later. It first appeared in print in the American serviceman's newspaper \"Stars and Stripes\"—published two weeks after Kilmer died in combat in the Second Battle of the Marne on 30 July 1918.\n"}
{"id": "309715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309715", "title": "Sonoran Desert", "text": "Sonoran Desert\n\nThe Sonoran Desert is a North American desert which covers large parts of the Southwestern United States in Arizona and California and of Northwestern Mexico in Sonora, Baja California, and Baja California Sur. It is the hottest desert in Mexico. It has an area of . The western portion of the United States–Mexico border passes through the Sonoran Desert.\n\nIn phytogeography, the Sonoran Desert is within the Sonoran Floristic Province of the Madrean Region in southwestern North America, part of the Holarctic Kingdom of the northern Western Hemisphere. The desert contains a variety of unique and endemic plants and animals, such as the saguaro (\"Carnegiea gigantea\") and organ pipe cactus (\"Stenocereus thurberi\").\n\nThe Sonoran desert wraps around the northern end of the Gulf of California, from Baja California Sur (El Vizcaíno Biosphere Reserve in central and Pacific west coast, Central Gulf Coast subregion on east to southern tip), north through much of Baja California, excluding the central northwest mountains and Pacific west coast, through southeastern California and southwestern and southern Arizona to western and central parts of Sonora.\n\nIt is bounded on the west by the Peninsular Ranges, which separate it from the California chaparral and woodlands (northwest) and Baja California Desert (Vizcaino subregion, central and southeast) ecoregions of the Pacific slope. To the north in California and northwest Arizona, the Sonoran Desert transitions to the colder-winter, higher-elevation Mojave, Great Basin, and Colorado Plateau deserts.\n\nTo the east and southeast, the deserts transition to the coniferous Arizona Mountains forests and Sierra Madre and Sierra Madre Occidental pine–oak forests at higher elevations. To the south the Sonoran–Sinaloan transition subtropical dry forest is the transition zone from the Sonoran Desert to the tropical dry forests of the Mexican state of Sinaloa.\n\nThe desert's sub-regions include the Colorado Desert of southeastern California; and the Yuma Desert east of the north-to-south section of the Colorado River in southwest Arizona. In the 1957 publication, \"Vegetation of the Sonoran Desert\", Forrest Shreve divided the Sonoran Desert into seven regions according to characteristic vegetation: Lower Colorado Valley, Arizona Upland, Plains of Sonora, Foothills of Sonora, Central Gulf Coast, Vizcaíno Region, and Magdalena Region. Many ecologists now consider Shreve's Vizcaíno and Magdalena regions, which lie on the western side of the Baja California Peninsula, to be a separate ecoregion, the Baja California Desert.\n\nWithin the southern Sonoran Desert in Mexico is found the Gran Desierto de Altar, with the \"Reserva de la Biosfera el Pinacate y Gran Desierto de Altar\" ('Pinacate National Park' in Mexico), extending of desert and mountainous regions. The Pinacate National Park includes the only active Erg dune region in North America. The nearest city to the \"Reserva de la Biosfera el Pinacate y Gran Desierto de Altar\" is Puerto Peñasco (a.k.a. 'Rocky Point') in the state of Sonora, Mexico.\n\nSonoran Desert sub-regions include:\n\nThe Sonoran Desert includes 60 mammal species, 350 bird species, 20 amphibian species, over 100 reptile species, 30 native fish species, over 1000 native bee species, and more than 2,000 native plant species. The Sonoran Desert area southeast of Tucson and near the Mexican border is vital habitat for the only population of jaguars living within the United States. The Colorado River Delta was once an ecological hotspot within the Sonoran desert, fueled by the flow of fresh water through the Colorado river in this otherwise dry area, but the delta has been greatly reduced in extent due to the damming and use of the river upstream.\n\nMany plants not only survive, but thrive in the harsh conditions of the Sonoran Desert. Many have evolved to have specialized adaptations to the desert climate. The Sonoran Desert's biseasonal rainfall pattern results in more plant species than any other desert in the world. The Sonoran Desert includes plant genera and species from the agave family, palm family, cactus family, legume family, and numerous others.\n\nThe Sonoran is the only place in the world where the famous saguaro cactus (\"Carnegiea gigantea\") grows in the wild. Cholla (\"Cylindropuntia\" spp.), beavertail (\"Opuntia basilaris\"), hedgehog (\"Echinocereus\" spp.), fishhook (\"Ferocactus wislizeni\"), prickly pear (\"Opuntia\" spp.), nightblooming cereus (\"Peniocereus\" spp.), and organ pipe (\"Stenocereus thurberi\") are other taxa of cacti found here. Cactus provides food and homes to many desert mammals and birds, with showy flowers in reds, pinks, yellows, and whites, blooming most commonly from late March through June, depending on the species and seasonal temperatures.\n\nCreosote bush (\"Larrea tridentata\") and bur sage (\"Ambrosia dumosa\") dominate valley floors. Indigo bush (\"Psorothamnus fremontii\") and Mormon tea are other shrubs that may be found. Wildflowers of the Sonoran Desert include desert sand verbena (\"Abronia villosa\"), desert sunflower (\"Geraea canescens\"), and evening primroses.\nAscending from the valley up bajadas, various subtrees such as velvet mesquite (\"Prosopis velutina\"), palo verde (\"Parkinsonia florida\"), desert ironwood (\"Olneya tesota\"), desert willow (\"Chilopsis linearis\" ssp. \"arcuata\"), and crucifixion thorn (\"Canotia holacantha\") are common, as well as multi-stemmed ocotillo (\"Fouquieria splendens\"). Shrubs found at higher elevations include whitethorn acacia (\"Acacia constricta\"), fairy duster, and jojoba. In the desert subdivisions found on Baja California, cardon cactus, elephant tree, and boojum tree occur.\nThe California fan palm (\"Washingtonia filifera\") is found in the Colorado Desert section of the Sonoran Desert, the only native palm in California, among many other introduced Arecaceae genera and species. It is found at spring-fed oases, such as in Anza Borrego Desert State Park, Joshua Tree National Park, and the Kofa National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nThe Sonoran Desert is home to the cultures of over seventeen contemporary Native American tribes, with settlements at and , as well as populations in Mexico.\n\nThe largest city in the Sonoran Desert is Phoenix, Arizona, with a 2013 metropolitan population of about 4.3 million. Located on the Salt River in central Arizona, it is one of the fastest-growing metropolitan areas in the United States. In 2007 in the Phoenix area, desert was losing ground to urban sprawl at a rate of approximately per hour.\n\nThe next largest cities are Tucson, in southern Arizona, with a metro area population of around 1 million, and Mexicali, Baja California, whose municipality also has a population of around 900,000. The municipality of Hermosillo, Sonora, has a population of around 700,000. Ciudad Obregón, Sonora, in the southern part of the desert, has a population of 375,800.\n\nThe Coachella Valley, located in the Colorado Desert section of the Sonoran Desert, has a population of 365,000. Many famous Southern California desert resort cities such as Palm Springs and Palm Desert are located here.\nDuring the winter months, from November to April, the daytime temperatures in the Coachella Valley range from 70 °F (21 °C) to 90 °F (32 °C) and corresponding nighttime lows range from 46 °F (8 °C) to 68 °F (20 °C) making it a popular winter resort destination. Due to its warm year-round climate citrus and subtropical fruits such as mangoes, figs, and dates are grown in the Coachella Valley and adjacent Imperial Valley. Imperial Valley has a total population of about 188,000 and has a similar climate to that of the Coachella Valley. Other cities include Indio, Coachella, Calexico, El Centro, Imperial, Palm Desert and Blythe.\n\nStraddling as it does the US-Mexican border, with low levels of human-installed security, the Sonoran desert is a popular route to attempt unauthorized entry across the border. The harsh conditions mean that the 3-5-day march, usually moving at night to minimize exposure to the heat, often ends in death.\n\nThere are many National Parks and Monuments; federal and state nature reserves and wildlife refuges; state, county, and city parks; and government or nonprofit group operated natural history museums, science research institutes, and botanical gardens and desert landscape gardens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1533475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533475", "title": "South Pacific convergence zone", "text": "South Pacific convergence zone\n\nThe South Pacific Convergence Zone (SPCZ), a reverse-oriented monsoon trough, is a band of low-level convergence, cloudiness and precipitation extending from the Western Pacific Warm Pool at the maritime continent south-eastwards towards French Polynesia and as far as the Cook Islands (160W, 20S). The SPCZ is a portion of the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) which lies in a band extending east-west near the Equator but can be more extratropical in nature, especially east of the International Date Line. It is considered the largest and most important piece of the ITCZ, and has the least dependence upon heating from a nearby landmass during the summer than any other portion of the monsoon trough. The SPCZ can affect the precipitation on Polynesian islands in the southwest Pacific Ocean, so it is important to understand how the SPCZ behaves with large-scale, global climate phenomenon, such as the ITCZ, El Niño–Southern Oscillation, and the Interdecadal Pacific oscillation (IPO), a portion of the Pacific decadal oscillation.\n\nThe SPCZ occurs where the southeast trades from transitory anticyclones to the south meet with the semipermanent easterly flow from the eastern South Pacific anticyclone. The SPCZ exists in summer and winter but can change its orientation and location. It is often distinct from the ITCZ over Australia, but at times they become one continuous zone of convergence. The location of the SPCZ is affected by ENSO and Interdecadal Pacific oscillation conditions. It generally stretches from the Solomon Islands through Vanuatu, Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga. Low-level convergence along this band forms cloudiness as well as showers and thunderstorms. Thunderstorm activity, or convection, within the band is dependent upon the season, as the more equatorward portion is most active in the Southern Hemisphere summer, and the more poleward portion is most active during transition seasons of fall and spring. The convergence zone shifts east or west depending on the existence of El Niño, or the phase of ENSO.\n\nThe climatological position can be estimated by computing its mean position over 30 or more years. There are several metrics to measure the position of the SPCZ. The location of maximum rainfall, maximum of low level convergence, maxima of the 500 hPa vertical motion, and the minimum in outgoing longwave radiation (OLR) are four indicators of the SPCZ axis. Figure 1 shows qualitative agreement between all of these SPCZ indicators.\n\nThe position of the SPCZ can change on seasonal, interannual, and possibly longer timescales.\n\nResearch into SPCZ movements of the 20th century are linked to changes in the IPO and ENSO. Folland et al., 2002 defined an index to describe the Interdecadal Pacific oscillation (IPO) with sea surface temperature and night marine air temperature to determine how the SPCZ varies with the IPO. When the IPO index has negative temperature anomalies, the SPCZ is displaced southwest and moves northeastward when the IPO index has positive temperature anomalies. The Southern Oscillation Index (SOI) is a metric for describing warm- and cold-phase conditions associated with the El Niño–Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and can also describe movements of the position of the SPCZ. Negative SOI index values are associated with warm-phase or El Niño-like conditions and a northeastward displacement of the SPCZ. Positive SOI index values, on the other hand, describe cold-phase or La Niña-like conditions and a southwestward displacement of the SPCZ.\n\nDetermining the position of the SPCZ over longer timescales in the past (pre-20th century) has been studied using coral records of the southwest Pacific. Linsley et al. (2006) reconstructed sea-surface temperature and sea surface salinity in the southwest Pacific starting circa 1600CE by measuring the oxygen isotopic composition of four Porites coral records from Rarotonga and two from Fiji. Coral isotope measurements provide information on both sea surface temperature and sea surface salinity, so they can indicate times of increased or decreased temperature and/or precipitation associated with changes in the position of the SPCZ. Their coral oxygen isotope index indicated an eastward shift of the decadal mean position of the SPCZ since the mid 1800s. A shift of the SPCZ in this direction suggests there were more La Niña-like or cold-phase conditions in the Pacific, during this period, often called the Little Ice Age. Additional paleoclimate studies are still needed in order to test the reliability of these coral results.\n\nThe IPO and ENSO can interact together to produce changes in the position of the SPCZ. West of about 140 W, both ENSO (measured with Southern Oscillation Index) and IPO strongly influence the SPCZ latitude, but farther east only ENSO is a significant factor. Only near 170 W is there any indication of an interaction between the two factors.\n\nBesides observations of the SPCZ and movement in its position, there have been modelling studies as well. Widlansky et al. (2012) used a number of climate models of differing complexity to simulate rainfall bands in the southwest Pacific and see how the magnitude and areal extent was affected by the SPCZ and ENSO. During El Niño or warm-phase conditions, the SPCZ typically shifted northeastward with dryer conditions on islands to the southwest, in agreement with observations. Conversely, a southwestward shift in rainfall accompanied La Niña or cold-phase events in the simulations. Widlanksy et al. (2012) argued the sea surface temperature biases in models created uncertainty in the rainfall projections and produce what has been named “the double ITCZ problem”. The impact of sea surface temperature bias was further investigated by using uncoupled atmospheric models with prescribed sea surface temperatures, and those 3 models each with differing complexity showed less severe double ITCZ bias than the ensemble of coupled models.\n\nAt its southeast edge, the circulation around the feature forces a salinity gradient in the ocean, with fresher and warmer waters of the western Pacific lying to its west. Cooler and saltier waters lie to its east.\n\n\nTropical textbook : from trade winds to cyclone (2 vol), 897 pp., Florent Beucher, 25 mai 2010, Météo-France, \n"}
{"id": "38556766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38556766", "title": "Spanish plume", "text": "Spanish plume\n\nThe Spanish Plume (Penacho Ibérico in Spanish and Spaanse Pluim in Dutch) is a weather pattern in which a plume of warm air moves from the Iberian plateau or the Sahara to northwest Europe giving rise to severe thunderstorms. This meteorological pattern can lead to extreme high temperatures and intense rainfall during the summer months, with potential for flash flooding, damaging hail storms and tornado formation. Some of these intense thunderstorm are formed from thermal lows. Thermal lows is also known as heat lows. Thermal lows can be semi permanent feature around some parts of the Europe particularly in the summer season. These thermal lows can be developed or created around Spain, Portugal, France etc. during the summer season because of the intense heat. Thermal low pressure can be located around the world particularly in the summer or tropical regions.\n\n\n\nA similar pattern, though on a larger scale, is the Mexican plume in the south west USA, where hot dry air from the Mexican highlands acts as a cap to convection until lifted over Texas, Arkansas and Oklahoma.\n\nIn Finland and the Baltic states meteorologists have observed a situation conducive to severe summer storm development which occurs when a warm moist air mass flows into the region from the south or south east under the influence of an upper-level trough. These conditions have some similarities to the Spanish plume. The synoptic conditions see a low over southern Norway, bringing warm south and southwesterly flows of air up from the inner continental areas of Russia and Belarus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48655936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48655936", "title": "The Heathen", "text": "The Heathen\n\n\"The Heathen\" is a short story by the American writer Jack London. It was first published in \"Everybody's Magazine\" in August 1910, and later included in the collection of stories by London, \"The Strength of the Strong\", published by Macmillan in 1914.\n\nIn the story, two people, from different cultural and racial backgrounds, are the only survivors of a ship that encounters a hurricane in the Pacific, and they remain together.\n\nIn 1907 London began a voyage across the Pacific Ocean in his ketch the \"Snark\", and visited islands in the south Pacific, concluding the voyage in Sydney, Australia. He wrote about the adventure in his book \"The Cruise of the Snark\". \"The Heathen\" is set among islands that London visited during that period.\n\nThe narrator, a pearl buyer named Charley, is a cabin passenger on a schooner, the \"Petite Jeanne\", sailing from Rangiroa to Tahiti with a Kanaka crew, at the end of the pearling season in the Paumotas. The boat, having eighty-five deck passengers, is overloaded. Several passengers die of smallpox; Charley and the other cabin passengers drink whisky, until it runs out, in the belief that it will kill the smallpox germs.\n\nThe boat is in the direct path of a hurricane. \"The second sea filled the \"Petite Jeanne\"'s decks flush with the rails, and, as her stern sank down and her bow tossed skyward, all the miserable dunnage of life and luggage poured aft. It was a human torrent... Out of all my experiences I could not have believed it possible for the wind to blow as it did... It was a monstrous thing, and the most monstrous thing about it was that it increased and continued to increase.\"\n\nThe \"Petite Jeanne\" is destroyed in the hurricane, and Charley survives by clinging to a hatch cover from the boat, sharing it with a Kanaka named Otoo. Eventually Charley loses consciousness, and comes to on the beach of an atoll; Otoo has saved his life by pulling him from the water. They are the only survivors from the \"Petite Jeanne\".\n\nThey exchange names. \"In the South Seas such a ceremony binds two men closer together than blood-brothership.\" They part in Papeete and Otoo goes home to Bora Bora; but he returns, because his wife has died. He accompanies Charley for the next seventeen years, ensuring that he does not come to harm.\n\n\"Truly, he made me a better man. Yet he was not strait-laced. And he knew nothing of common Christian morality... he was a heathen... a gross materialist who believed that when he died he was dead. He believed merely in fair play and square-dealing... Otoo had my welfare always at heart. He thought ahead for me, weighed my plans and took a greater interest in them than I did myself.\"\n\nOtoo advises Charley to become a captain of a schooner, in order to save enough to own a plantation. He does so; he marries and has children. Otoo helps to bring up the children on the plantation.\n\nThe relationship ends when Otoo is killed saving Charley from sharks on the coast of Savu. \"And so passed Otoo, who saved me and made me a man, and who saved me in the end.\" \n\nIn a 2006 collection of stories by London including \"The Heathen\", the editors comment: \"In the early 1940s, when this story found its way into fiction anthologies and high school textbooks, it was admired for its fiercely detailed picture of a storm at sea and for its courageous examination of a friendship that transcended cultural and racial differences... It is nowadays impossible for us to read the account of the friendship between Charley and Otoo so simply... By the 1970s, as editors began to see the complexity of the ideas about race embedded in \"The Heathen\", it simply became easier to drop the story from collections altogether.\"\n"}
{"id": "39837537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39837537", "title": "Thor Iversen", "text": "Thor Iversen\n\nThor Iversen (1873–1953) was a Norwegian advisor to the Board of Fisheries. From 1923 he was in charge of the inspection of hunting and fishing in the Arctic Ocean. Among his books are \"Drivis og selfangst\" from 1927, and \"Ishavsøya Hopen\" from 1941.\n\nThe highest mountain of Hopen is called Iversenfjellet, and the southernmost point of the island is called Kapp Thor, both named after him.\n"}
{"id": "737688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=737688", "title": "Tila Tequila", "text": "Tila Tequila\n\nThien Thanh Thi Nguyen (born October 24, 1981), better known by her stage names Tila Tequila, Tila Nguyen, Miss Tila and Tornado Thien is an American television and social media personality. She first gained recognition for her active presence on social networking websites. After becoming the most popular person on Myspace, Tequila was offered the opportunity to star in her own reality television series. Her bisexual-themed dating show, \"A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila\" (2007), aired for two seasons and became MTV's second highest-rated series premiere of that year.\n\nBorn in Singapore and raised in Houston, Texas, Tequila moved to Los Angeles in 2001 to pursue her modeling career. After being featured in numerous men's magazines (including \"Playboy\", \"Stuff\" and \"Maxim\"), she made her reality television debut on the VH1 show \"Surviving Nugent\" (2003). Besides her career in modeling and television, Tequila also pursued her career as a recording artist and author. She was the lead singer of the bands Beyond Betty Jean and Jealousy, before launching a solo career. Her debut single \"I Love U\" was released in 2007 to mixed reviews. Despite having strong online sales, the song failed to enter any charts. Tequila followed with several independently released singles, including \"Stripper Friends\" and \"Paralyze\". In 2010, she released her second EP \"Welcome to the Dark Side\". Her book, \"Hooking Up With Tila Tequila: A Guide to Love, Fame, Happiness, Success, and Being the Life of the Party\" was published in 2008.\n\nShe has subsequently received negative attention for her support of Adolf Hitler, as well as antisemitic and white nationalist comments, which led to her expulsion from \"Celebrity Big Brother\".\n\nNguyen was born in Singapore, where her family were Vietnamese boat people, who arrived from Vietnam after the Vietnam War. Nguyen has an older brother, Daniel, and older sister, Terri. When she was one year old, the family relocated to a neighborhood in Houston, Texas and were eventually admitted to a gated community run by a strict Buddhist temple. The family left the community when Nguyen was eight.\n\nNguyen was nicknamed \"Tila Tequila\" by friends due to her apparent allergy to alcohol. In her memoir, she would later explain that she felt \"confused\" and \"lost\" from various personal family and environmental issues. She turned to writing poems in an attempt to release powerful emotions, and friends outside the gang briefly helped turn her life around. At age 16, Nguyen ran away to Queens, New York City, for several months. While still 16, she experienced a drive-by shooting in Houston. She reports having become pregnant and suffering a miscarriage the following year.\n\nNguyen graduated from Alief Hastings High School in 2000. She has cited her violent adolescence in Texas as her reason for becoming a model and moving to California in 2001. In a March 2003 interview, she revealed that she has taken some college classes but does not have a degree, stating, \"I didn't want to go to college for an actual degree because there's nothing out there I like besides doing something that involves the entertainment industry.\"\n\nNguyen's career began at the age of 19 when she was discovered at the Sharpstown Mall by a \"Playboy\" scout and was offered a chance to model nude for the magazine. She did a test shoot, then eventually moved to Southern California and was featured as \"Playboy\"s Cyber Girl of the week on April 22, 2002, and soon thereafter she became the first Asian Cyber Girl of the Month. A few more pictorials for the magazine followed.\n\nAt age 20, Nguyen acted on her interest in rock music and started looking for bands willing to let her join. She eventually assembled a band called Beyond Betty Jean, for which she was singer and songwriter. Beyond Betty Jean eventually broke up and Nguyen started working in recording studios to sharpen her vocal skills and wrote music. Later, she became the lead singer of a band called Jealousy, which released a few songs online before breaking up. In 2003, Nguyen was a contestant on VH1's \"Surviving Nugent\", a reality TV show where participants performed compromising tasks and stunts for rock star Ted Nugent.\n\nNguyen gained further popularity through the import racing scene. She has been featured on the cover of \"Import Tuner\" magazine, at car shows such as Hot Import Nights, and in the video game \"Street Racing Syndicate\". Nguyen joined Myspace in the fall of 2003 after getting booted off of Friendster multiple times. Time Magazine, in a 2006 profile of Nguyen noted her impact on the platform stating \"Pre-Tila, your MySpace friends were mostly people you actually knew. Post-Tila, the biggest game on the site became Who Has the Most Friends, period, whoever they might be.\" also calling her, the \"Queen\" of the site.\n\nDuring the first season of Fuse TV's dance show, \"Pants-Off Dance-Off\", on which a group of contestants strip to music videos, Nguyen was the most frequent host. In April 2006, during the taping of an interview with MTV's \"Total Request Live\" VJs, will.i.am announced that Nguyen had been signed to the Will.I.Am music group, a record label under A&M Records. Despite this major-label signing, Nguyen independently released her first single \"I Love U\" through iTunes on February 27, 2007, justifying the independent release through her desire to become famous by herself. She also shot a music video for the song. In March 2007, Washington-based record label The Saturday Team released an EP called \"Sex\", by Tila Tequila. On July 27, 2007, Italian website MusicBlob reported that The Saturday Team and distributor Icon Music Entertainment Services sued Nguyen over breaching her contract related to the album. However, Nguyen claimed in a MySpace bulletin that the EP was not authorized for release by her, and was removed from most retailers. The Saturday Team won a legal case, making \"Sex\" available for digital purchase. Nguyen made an appearance as one of the 12 strangers in the first game on April 6, 2007 episode of NBC's game show \"Identity\". On March 4, 2007, she made a cameo appearance on the show \"The War At Home\". She also appeared as a Hooters Girl in the 2007 film \"I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry\".\nIn May 2007, Nguyen began filming for a reality show which first aired on MTV on October 9, 2007, as \"A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila\". The program was a bisexual-themed dating show where 16 straight men and 16 lesbian women competed for Nguyen's affections, the twist being that the contestants were not aware of her bisexuality until the end of the first episode. The ten-episode series was produced by SallyAnn Salsano and MTV. The show led to a heated online debate between Nguyen and conservative Christians after an article appeared on \"The Christian Post\" on September 13, 2007. After seeing the article, Nguyen wrote an impassioned response in her blog on September 28, 2007, criticizing churches for \"bashing\" the gay community while thanking God for saving her life. The show premiered for a second season in April 2008 and became a popular gossip subject in Asian media, such as \"AsianWeek\". The season finale premiered July 8, 2008, the winner being Kristy Morgan who declined her \"shot at love\".\n\nOn October 9, 2007, Nguyen released her second official single, \"Stripper Friends\". A video premiered via Yahoo! Music on February 26, 2008 and was released to iTunes on March 4, 2008. The single failed to chart. In April 2008, the single \"Paralyze\" and its accompanying music video were released via Yahoo! Music and iTunes. The \"I Love U Remixes\" EP was released to digital music retailers on April 7, 2009. On December 2, 2008, Nguyen released a self-help book, \"Hooking Up with Tila Tequila: A Guide to Love, Fame, Happiness, Success, and Being the Life of the Party\" ().\n\nBy 2010, Tequila decided to reinvent her image and changed her stage name to Miss Tila. Her first single released under the new moniker was \"I Fucked the DJ\", along with an edited version entitled \"I Love My DJ\". Released under her newly established label Little Miss Trendsetter, the single received negative reviews and failed to be successful in charts. In May, she launched her celebrity gossip blog, MissTilaOMG.com, and the EP, \"Welcome to the Darkside\", which marked a musical departure from her previous material. Influenced by classical music and artists such as Nina Simone and Billie Holiday, \"Welcome to the Darkside\" received more positive reviews. However, it did not manage to gain commercial success.\n\nTequila began a tour supporting the new EP and at one of her tour stops in August 2010, she appeared at the Gathering of the Juggalos, a music festival founded by hip hop duo Insane Clown Posse. She was repeatedly pelted with rocks and bottles among other objects, and she vowed to take legal action against the organizers and promoters for the event.\n\nIn May 2015, it was announced that Tequila was working on new music. In June, she posted a snippet of the song \"Drunk Dialing\" on her Instagram and wrote it would be released in the Summer. In August, Tequila became one of the contestants on the sixteenth season of Channel 5 reality series \"Celebrity Big Brother\". However, she was ejected from the house after just one day, due to many viewer complaints of her controversial statements made in 2013, when she posted anti-Semitic comments and praised German dictator Adolf Hitler on Facebook. Tequila posted a snippet of \"Drunk Dialing\" again in September and confirmed it would be released by the end of October along with a music video. In November, Tequila and her management confirmed the single would be released on December 4. Tequila also announced her own line of e-liquids for vaporizers in collaboration with Blaze Vapors.\n\nIn July 2001, Nguyen started the website TilasHotSpot.com, which later began redirecting to MissTila.com. Originally the site featured information, quotes, blog, and pictorials requiring adult verification and a monthly fee. Later, the site was revamped to feature all-ages content and information to promote her career, business ventures, personal information, and a premium membership section including videos, non-nude picture galleries, blogs, and chat sessions. In 2008 the site was transformed into a social network.\n\nDuring 2005, Nguyen launched TilaFashion.com, a site featuring her custom line of clothing for men and women. In 2006, Nguyen created another website, TilaZone.com which features content to use on Myspace and other social networking websites including layouts, widgets, and clipart.\n\nIn December 2009, Nguyen partnered with Joe Francis to launch the now-defunct dating website TilasHotSpotDating.com, aimed at people ages 18 and up. The site included a free membership with basic access, and paid membership for other areas of the site. Nguyen took in webcam chats on the site.\n\nIn 2010, Nguyen launched a celebrity blog site, MissTilaOMG.com, which was transformed into her personal blog in 2012.\n\nAs of 2018, Nguyen sells artwork online under the name of Tornado Thien.\n\nNguyen was featured on the cover of the April 2006 issue of \"Stuff\" magazine; in the interview, she claimed that her nickname \"Tila Tequila\" came about when she experimented with alcohol at the age of thirteen. She appeared on the August 2006 \"Maxim\" UK cover, was named #88 in their Hot 100 List, and also appeared in the December 2007 issue. She was ranked #100 on the Maxim Hot 100 list in 2008.\n\nNguyen has been featured on the front page of magazines such as \"Penthouse\", \"King\", \"Blender\", and most recently \"Steppin' Out\".\n\nIn December 2013, Nguyen caused controversy by posting an article on her website titled \"Why I Sympathize with Hitler: Part I\", although she stated that her views on Hitler were not derived from antisemitism on her part, nor any feelings toward Jewish people. She also posted pro-Hitler and antisemitic comments on her Facebook page, as well as photos of herself as a scantily clad Nazi posing in front of a photo of the Auschwitz concentration camp. These actions angered her Facebook followers, and resulted in Facebook closing her account and removing the material in question. In August 2015, Tequila became a contestant in the sixteenth series of British television reality show \"Celebrity Big Brother\", but was asked to leave the programme on its second day when producers became aware of her comments and photos. She subsequently apologized for her earlier comments, blaming them on depression and drug addiction.\n\nOn May 6, 2016, Nguyen tweeted that Jewish-American political commentator Ben Shapiro should \"be gassed and sent back to Israel\" and later posted that \"There are only two things in this world, for which I would gladly sacrifice my own life; the destruction of all Jews and preservation of the white race\" and \"You know what will help Asians earn respect? An Asian version of Adolf Hitler ... I want that person to be me; I want to save the world from this Zionist disease.\" In June 2016, Tila Tequila accused Sarah Silverman and the Jews of killing Jesus before saying the comedian was next on a \"celebrity sacrifice\" list.\n\nOn November 19, 2016, she attended an alt-right National Policy Institute meeting celebrating the election of Donald Trump, organized by white supremacist Richard B. Spencer, and posted photos on social media of herself doing a Nazi salute. One was posted to Twitter with the text \"Seig heil!\" [sic] and a raised hand emoji (\"✋\"). On November 22, 2016, her account was suspended by Twitter. Consequently, she joined Gab.\n\nBy the end of 2007, Tequila was linked to the winner of her dating show \"A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila\", Bobby Banhart. In January 2008 she revealed that she and Banhart had ended their relationship. Shortly afterwards, Banhart posted a message on his Myspace stating he had never dated Tequila and that she \"never called him after the last show and no one would give him her number.\" Tequila later came out as a lesbian rather than a bisexual and stated that she wanted to pick the show's runner-up Dani Campbell but the producers made her pick Banhart.\n\nOn September 6, 2009, Tequila was allegedly choked and restrained by former boyfriend Shawne Merriman, who was later arrested. San Diego district attorney Bonnie Dumanis decided not to charge Merriman after her office spent three days reviewing reports from the San Diego County Sheriff's Department. On November 17, 2009, Tequila sued Merriman for $1.5 million. Several weeks later, Merriman countersued, alleging intentional interference with contract, unfair competition, and trademark infringement. She declined to respond to his more recent actions, and a default judgment was entered in his favor for $2 million.\n\nOn December 9, 2009, Tequila stated she was engaged to heiress Casey Johnson and was photographed with a diamond ring. Johnson died on January 4, 2010 of complications resulting from diabetes. Tequila announced plans to seek legal custody of Casey Johnson's adopted daughter, Ava Monroe Johnson, who was under the legal custody of Johnson's mother.\n\nOn March 7, 2012, it was reported that Tequila had agreed to check into rehab after having reportedly \"almost died\" from an attempted suicide by overdosing on pills. The incident caused her to be hospitalized from a brain aneurysm. Tequila completed her rehab treatment on April 5, 2012.\n\nTequila began dating musician Thomas Paxton Whitaker (born 1971) in 2013, which ended due to Whitaker's financial problems. On April 18, 2014, Tequila confirmed her pregnancy on her Facebook page. Tequila gave birth to her daughter Isabella Monroe Nguyen on November 16, 2014. As of March 2018, Tequila is pregnant with her second child. She now goes by the name of Tornado Thien. Tequila has expressed her belief that the earth is not a sphere but is flat.\n\nIn March 2018, Tequila said she was neither lesbian nor bisexual, and only pretended to be in order to create ratings for \"A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila\". In September 2018, Tila gave birth to her second child, a daughter named Annabelle.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13762563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13762563", "title": "Undular bore", "text": "Undular bore\n\nIn meteorology, an undular bore is a wave disturbance in the Earth's atmosphere and can be seen through unique cloud formations. They normally occur within an area of the atmosphere which is stable in the low levels after an outflow boundary or a cold front moves through.\n\nIn hydraulics, an undular bore is a gentle bore with an undular hydraulic jump pattern at the downstream (subcritical) side.\n\nUndular bores are usually formed when two air masses of different temperatures collide. When a low level boundary such as a cold front or outflow boundary approaches a layer of cold, stable air, it creates a disturbance in the atmosphere producing a wave-like motion, known as a gravity wave. Although the undular bore waves appear as bands of clouds across the sky, they are transverse waves, and are propelled by the transfer of energy from an oncoming storm and are shaped by gravity. The ripple like appearance of this wave is described as the disturbance in the water when a pebble is dropped into a pond or when a moving boat creates waves in the surrounding water. The object displaces the water or medium the wave is travelling through and the medium moves in an upward motion. However, because of gravity, the water or medium is pulled back down and the repetition of this cycle creates the transverse wave motion.\n\nThe undular bore's wavelength can measure peak to peak and can travel to . The medium it travels through is the atmosphere. There are several varying types of ‘‘bores’’ in different layers of the atmosphere, such as the mesospheric bore which occurs in the mesosphere.\n\nRare but not unknown in a great many locations, the waves appear with some predictability and regularity in the Gulf of Carpentaria during Spring. They have been seen as frequently as six days in a row according to reports by the two pilots who have most experience with \nsoaring these sometimes enormous examples of the undular bore, known in Australia as the Morning Glory cloud.\n\nThe term \"bore\" is also used to describe positive surges advancing in shallow waters. When the surge's Froude number is less than 1.4 to 1.7 (i.e. above unity and below a number somewhere in the range 1.4 to 1.7), the advancing front is followed by a train of well-defined free-surface undulations (called \"whelps\"). The surge is then called an undular surge or undular bore.\n\nThe undulations form a standing wave pattern, relative to the undular bore front. So, the phase velocity (propagation velocity relative to still water) of the undulations is just high enough to keep the undulations stationary relative to the bore front. Now, in water waves, the group velocity (which is also the energy-transport velocity) is less than the phase velocity. Therefore, on average, wave energy of the undulations is transported away from the front, and contributing to the energy loss in the region of the front.\n\nA related occurrence of positive surges is the tidal bore in estuaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7367038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7367038", "title": "Vacuum packing", "text": "Vacuum packing\n\nVacuum packing is a method of packaging that removes air from the package prior to sealing. This method involves (manually or automatically) placing items in a plastic film package, removing air from inside, and sealing the package. Shrink film is sometimes used to have a tight fit to the contents.\nThe intent of vacuum packing is usually to remove oxygen from the container to extend the shelf life of foods and, with flexible package forms, to reduce the volume of the contents and package.\n\nVacuum packing reduces atmospheric oxygen, limiting the growth of aerobic bacteria or fungi, and preventing the evaporation of volatile components. It is also commonly used to store dry foods over a long period of time, such as cereals, nuts, cured meats, cheese, smoked fish, coffee, and potato chips (crisps). On a more short term basis, vacuum packing can also be used to store fresh foods, such as vegetables, meats, and liquids, because it inhibits bacterial growth.\n\nVacuum packing greatly reduces the bulk of non-food items. For example, clothing and bedding can be stored in bags evacuated with a domestic vacuum cleaner or a dedicated vacuum sealer. This technique is sometimes used to compact household waste, for example where a charge is made for each full bag collected.\n\nVacuum packaging products, using plastic bags, canisters, bottles, or mason jars, are available for home use.\n\nFor delicate food items which might be crushed by the vacuum packing process (such as potato chips), an alternative is to replace the interior gas with nitrogen. This has the same effect of inhibiting deterioration due to the removal of oxygen.\n\nExternal vacuum sealers involve a bag being attached to the vacuum-sealing machine externally. The machine will remove the air and seal the bag, which is all done outside the machine. A heat sealer is often used to seal the pack.\n\nSingle chamber sealers require the entire product to be placed within the machine. Like external sealers, a plastic bag is typically used for packaging. Once the product is placed in the machine, the lid is closed and air is removed. Then, there is a heat seal inside the chamber that will seal the bag, after sealing the bag the chamber is refilled with air by the automatic opening of a vent to the outside. This oncoming pressure squeezes all remaining air in the bag. The lid is then opened and the product removed. Chamber sealers are typically used for low-to-medium-volume packaging. This style of vacuum machine is also capable of sealing liquids due to equal pressure in the chamber and the bag eliminating the risk of the liquid being suck out of the open edge of the bag.\n\nDouble chamber sealers require the entire product to be placed in a plastic bag within the machine. Once the product is placed in the machine on the seal bar, the lid is closed and air is removed. Then a seal bar inside the chamber seals the product in the bag, after sealing the bag the chamber is refilled with air by the automatic opening of a vent to the outside. This oncoming pressure squeezes all remaining air in the bag. The lid is then opened and the product removed. Double chamber sealers are typically used for medium-volume packaging, and also have the capability to vacuum seal liquids. The lid generally swings from one side to another, increasing production speed over a single chamber model. Double chamber vacuum packaging machines generally have either spring-weighted lids or fully automatic lids.\n\nDouble chamber vacuum packaging machines are commonly used for:\n\nAutomatic belt chamber sealers require the entire product to be placed in a plastic bag or flow wrapped pouch within the machine. The product travels on the conveyor belt, it is automatically positioned in the machine on the seal bar, the lid is closed and air is removed. Then a seal bar inside the chamber seals the product in the bag. After sealing the bag, the chamber is refilled with air by the automatic opening of a vent to the outside. This oncoming pressure squeezes all remaining air in the bag. The lid is then opened and the product removed. Automatic belt vacuum chamber machines are typically used for high-speed packaging of large items, and also have the capability to vacuum seal liquids. The lid generally travels straight up and down.\n\nAutomatic belt vacuum chamber packaging machines are commonly used for:\n\nVacuum Packaging in large production facilities can be done with thermoforming machines. These are Form-Fill-Seal style machines that form the package from rolls of packaging film (webbing). Products are loaded into the thermoformed pockets, the top web is laid and sealed under a vacuum, producing vacuum packaged products. Thermoforming can greatly increase packaging production speed.\nThermoformed plastics can be customized for size, color, clarity, and shape to fit products perfectly, creating a consistent appearance. One of the most commonly used thermoformed plastics is PET, known for a high-strength barrier resistant to outside tampering and an ease of molding into designated designs and shapes. Some common uses for Thermoforming in vacuum packaging include:\n\nDepending on the product, atmosphere, temperature, and the barrier properties of the package, vacuum packaging extends the shelf life of many foods. The shelf life of meats can be extended by vacuum packaging, particularly when used with modified atmosphere packaging. \n\nThe amount of shelf life enhanced by a vacuum bag is dependent on the structure in the material. A standard vacuum bag is composed of a PA/PE structure where PA is for puncture resistance and PE is for sealing. The high barrier category includes the usage of more layers focused on the prevention of oxygen permeability, and therefore shelf life protection. There are two materials used in high barrier structures, polyvinylidene chloride (PVDC) and ethylene vinyl alcohol (EVOH). Shelf life indication can be effectively measured by how many cubic centimeters of oxygen can permeate through 1 square meter of material over a 24-hour period. A standard PA/PE bag allows on average 100 cubic centimeters, PVDC allows on average over 10, and EVOH on average 1 cubic centimeter. Multi-layer structures allow the ability to use strong oxygen-barrier materials for enhanced shelf life protection. The PremiumPack structure is a good example of EVOH based high barrier shrink material.\n\nWhen foods are frozen without preparation, freezer burn can occur. It happens when the surface of the food is dehydrated, and this leads to a dried and leathery appearance. Freezer burn also ruins the flavor and texture of foods. Vacuum packing reduces freezer burn by preventing the food from exposure to the cold, dry air.\n\nVacuum packaging also allows for a special cooking method, sous-vide. Sous-vide, French for \"under vacuum\", involves poaching food that is vacuum sealed in a plastic bag.\n\nIn an oxygen-depleted environment, anaerobic bacteria can proliferate, potentially causing food-safety issues. Some pathogens of concern in vacuum packed foods are spore-forming non-proteolytic \"Clostridium botulinum\", \"Yersenia enterocolitica\", and \"Listeria monocytogenes\". Vacuum packing is often used in combination with other food processing techniques, such as retorting or refrigeration, to inhibit the growth of anaerobic organisms.\n\n"}
