{"id": "12137803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12137803", "title": "88 Greenwich Street", "text": "88 Greenwich Street\n\n88 Greenwich Street, also known as the Greenwich Club Residences, and previously known as 19 Rector Street, is a building which takes up the full block on the south side of Rector Street between Greenwich Street and Washington Street in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City. Built in 1929-30, the 37-story building was designed by Lafayette A. Goldstone and Alexander Zamshnick in the Art Deco style.\n\n88 Greenwich Street was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2002. The building was renovated into residential condominium use in 2006. In 2012, the building was affected by flooding from Hurricane Sandy. Three million cubic feet of salt water entered the basement of the building, causing significant damage. During the flooding, water dislodged an oil tank which in turn hit a ceiling beam and cracked open. The breakage from the impact lead to an oil spill, which required a thorough cleaning.\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "45057277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45057277", "title": "Abdullah bin Mohammed bin Saud Al Thani", "text": "Abdullah bin Mohammed bin Saud Al Thani\n\nH.E. Sheikh Abdulla bin Mohammed bin Saud Al Thani (Arabic: عبد الله بن محمد بن سعود آل ثاني) is the Chief Executive Officer of Qatar Investment Authority, a Member of the Supreme Council for Economic Affairs and Investment, and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ooredoo Group. He also serves on the boards of QNB, Harrods and the International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds?\n\n"}
{"id": "46792223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46792223", "title": "Antoine Fiévet", "text": "Antoine Fiévet\n\nAntoine Fiévet is a French businessman. He serves as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Bel Group.\n\nAntoine Fiévet is the great-grandson of Léon Bel, the founder of the Bel Group.\n\nHe attended Paris-II University where he studied economics and law. He then graduated from ISG Business School in 1990.\n\nFiévet started his career in advertising.\n\nHe was appointed as the Chief Executive Officer of the Bel Group in April 25, 2001. He has served as its Chairman since May 14, 2009. He also serves as the Chairman of the Board of Unibel, the investment vehicle of the founding family, who are majority shareholders (the minority shareholders are the Besnier family, the owners of Lactalis).\n\nHe serves on the Board of Directors of Bonduelle, a company of tinned food.\n\nHe is one of the richest people in France.\n"}
{"id": "12924448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12924448", "title": "Biosimilar", "text": "Biosimilar\n\nA biosimilar (also known as follow-on biologic or subsequent entry biologic) is a biologic medical product that is almost an identical copy of an original product that is manufactured by a different company. Biosimilars are officially approved versions of original \"innovator\" products and can be manufactured when the original product's patent expires. Reference to the innovator product is an integral component of the approval.\n\nUnlike with generic drugs of the more common small-molecule type, biologics generally exhibit high molecular complexity and may be quite sensitive to changes in manufacturing processes. Despite that heterogeneity, all biopharmaceuticals, including biosimilars, must maintain consistent quality and clinical performance throughout their lifecycle. Follow-on manufacturers do not have access to the originator's molecular clone and original cell bank, to the exact fermentation and purification process, or to the active drug substance, but they have access to the commercialized innovator product. Overall, it is harder to ascertain fungibility between generics and innovators among biologics than it is among totally synthesized and semisynthesized drugs. That is why the name \"biosimilar\" was coined to differentiate them from small-molecule generics. A simple analogy, often used to explain the difference, is to compare wine with soda pop. It is harder to say objectively that two bottles of wine from two wineries are \"sufficiently interchangeable,\" because of differences in yeast strain, weather, and year of grape harvest, than it is to say that two bottles of soda pop of the same flavor coming from two bottling plants are \"sufficiently interchangeable\" because they contain the same flavoring powder.\n\nDrug-related authorities such as the EU's European Medicines Agency (EMA), the US's Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Health Products and Food Branch of Health Canada hold their own guidance on requirements for demonstration of the similar nature of two biological products in terms of safety and efficacy. According to them, analytical studies demonstrate that the biological product is highly similar to the reference product, despite minor differences in clinically inactive components, animal studies (including the assessment of toxicity), and a clinical study or studies (including the assessment of immunogenicity and pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics). They are sufficient to demonstrate safety, purity, and potency in one or more appropriate conditions of use for which the reference product is licensed and is intended to be used and for which licensure is sought for the biological product.\n\nIn case of a monoclonal antibody-containing medicinal product, such as Remsima, extensive physicochemical and biological characterization for it and its reference product Remicade was conducted to demonstrate their highly-similar properties. Therefore, EMA has granted a marketing authorisation for only a few biosimilars since 2006, including a monoclonal antibody, that was recently approved. Meanwhile, on March 6, 2015, the FDA approved the United States's first biosimilar product, the biosimilar of filgrastim called filgrastim-sndz (trade name Zarxio) by Sandoz.\n\nThe European regulatory authorities led with a specially adapted approval procedure to authorize subsequent versions of previously approved biologics, termed \"similar biological medicinal products\", or biosimilars. This procedure is based on a thorough demonstration of \"comparability\" of the \"similar\" product to an existing approved product. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) held that new legislation was required to enable them to approve biosimilars to those biologics originally approved through the PHS Act pathway. Additional Congressional hearings have been held. On March 17, 2009, the Pathway for Biosimilars Act was introduced in the House. See the Library of Congress website and search H.R. 1548 in 111th Congress Session. Since 2004 the FDA has held a series of public meetings on biosimilars.\n\nThe FDA gained the authority to approve biosimilars (including interchangeables that are substitutable with their reference product) as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act signed by President Obama on March 23, 2010.\n\nThe FDA has previously approved biologic products using comparability, for example, Omnitrope in May 2006, but this like Enoxaparin was also to a reference product, Genotropin, originally approved as a biologic drug under the FD&C Act.\n\nOn March 6, 2015, Zarxio obtained the first approval of FDA. Sandoz’s Zarxio is biosimilar to Amgen’s Neupogen (filgrastim), which was originally licensed in 1991. This is the first product to be passed under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (BPCI Act), which was passed as part of the Affordable Healthcare Act. But Zarxio was approved as a biosimilar, not as an interchangeable product, the FDA notes. And under the BPCI Act, only a biologic that has been approved as an “interchangeable” may be substituted for the reference product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the reference product. The FDA said its approval of Zarxio is based on review of evidence that included structural and functional characterization, animal study data, human pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics data, clinical immunogenicity data and other clinical safety and effectiveness data that demonstrates Zarxio is biosimilar to Neupogen.\n\nCloning of human genetic material and development of in vitro biological production systems has allowed the production of virtually any recombinant DNA based biological substance for eventual development of a drug. Monoclonal antibody technology combined with recombinant DNA technology has paved the way for tailor-made and targeted medicines. Gene- and cell-based therapies are emerging as new approaches.\n\nRecombinant therapeutic proteins are of a complex nature (composed of a long chain of amino acids, modified amino acids, derivatized by sugar moieties, folded by complex mechanisms). These proteins are made in living cells (bacteria, yeast, animal or human cell lines). The ultimate characteristics of a drug containing a recombinant therapeutic protein are to a large part determined by the process through which they are produced: choice of the cell type, development of the genetically modified cell for production, production process, purification process, formulation of the therapeutic protein into a drug.\n\nAfter the expiry of the patent of approved recombinant drugs (e.g., insulin, human growth hormone, interferons, erythropoietin, monoclonal antibodies and more) any other biotech company can develop and market these biologics (thus called biosimilars).\nEvery biological (or biopharmaceutical products) displays a certain degree of variability, even between different batches of the same product, which is due to the inherent variability of the biological expression system and the manufacturing process. Any kind of reference product has undergone numerous changes in its manufacturing processes, and such changes in the manufacturing process (ranging from a change in the supplier of cell culture media to new purification methods or new manufacturing sites) was substantiated with appropriate data and was approved by the EMA. In contrast, it is mandatory for biosimilars to take a both non-clinical and clinical test that the most sensitive clinical models are asked to show to enable detection of differences between the two products in terms of human pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD), efficacy, safety, and immunogenicity.\n\nThe current concept of development of biosimilar mAbs follows the principle that an extensive state of the art physicochemical, analytical and functional comparison of the molecules is complemented by comparative non-clinical and clinical data that establish equivalent efficacy and safety in a clinical \"model\" indication that is most sensitive to detect any minor differences (if these exist) between biosimilar and its reference mAb also at the clinical level.\n\nThe European Medicines Agency (EMA) has recognized this fact, which has resulted in the establishment of the term \"biosimilar\" in recognition that, whilst biosimilar products are similar to the original product, they are not exactly the same.\nEvery biological displays a certain degree of variability. However, provided that structure and function(s), pharmacokinetic profiles and pharmacodynamic effect(s) and/or efficacy can be shown to be comparable for the biosimilar and the reference product, those adverse drug reactions which are related to exaggerated pharmacological effects can also be expected at similar frequencies.\n\nOriginally the complexity of biological molecules led to requests for substantial efficacy and safety data for a biosimilar approval. This has been progressively replaced with a greater dependence on assays, from quality through to clinical, that show assay sensitivity sufficient to detect any significant difference in dose. However, the safe application of biologics depends on an informed and appropriate use by healthcare professionals and patients. Introduction of biosimilars also requires a specifically designed pharmacovigilance plan. It is difficult and costly to recreate biologics because the complex proteins are derived from living organisms that are genetically modified. In contrast, small molecule drugs made up of a chemically based compound can be easily replicated and are considerably less expensive to reproduce. In order to be released to the public, biosimilars must be shown to be as close to identical to the parent innovator biologic product based on data compiled through clinical, animal, analytical studies and conformational status.\n\nGenerally, once a drug is released in the market by FDA, it has to be re-evaluated for its safety and efficacy once every six months for the first and second years. Afterward, re-evaluations are conducted yearly, and the result of the assessment should be reported to authorities such as FDA. Biosimilars are required to undergo pharmacovigilance (PVG) regulations as its reference product. Thus biosimilars approved by EMEA (European Medicines Agency) are required to submit a risk management plan (RMP) along with the marketing application and have to provide regular safety update reports after the product is in the market. The RMP includes the safety profile of the drug and proposes the prospective pharmacovigilance studies.\n\nSeveral PK studies, such as studies conducted by Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), have been conducted under various ranges of conditions; Antibodies from an originator’s product versus antibodies from an biosimilar; combination therapy and monotherapy; various diseases, etc. on the purpose to verify comparability in pharmacokinetics of the biosimilar with the reference medicinal product in a sufficiently sensitive and homogeneous population. Importantly, provided that structure and function(s), pharmacokinetic profiles and pharmacodynamic effect(s) and/or efficacy can be shown to be comparable for the biosimilar and the reference product, those adverse drug reactions which are related to exaggerated pharmacological effects can also be expected at similar frequencies.\n\nIt has approved (in Jan 2016) Benepali a biosimilar to Enbrel (etanercept).\n\nThe Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (BPCI Act) was originally sponsored and introduced on June 26, 2007, by Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA). It was formally passed under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPAC Act), signed into law by President Barack Obama on March 23, 2010. The BPCI Act was an amendment to the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act) to create an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products that are demonstrated to be highly similar (biosimilar) to a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved biological product. The BPCI Act is similar, conceptually, to the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (also referred to as the \"Hatch-Waxman Act\") which created biological drug approval through the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFD&C Act). The BPCI Act aligns with the FDA's longstanding policy of permitting appropriate reliance on what is already known about a drug, thereby saving time and resources and avoiding unnecessary duplication of human or animal testing. The FDA has released a total of four draft guidelines related to biosimilar or follow-on biologics development. Upon the release of the first three guidance documents the FDA held a public hearing on May 11, 2012.\n\nData exclusivity is an important piece of the amendment in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act for biosimilars. It is the period of time between FDA approval and an abbreviated filing for a biosimilar on the original producer's data. Data exclusivity is designed to preserve innovation and recognize the long, costly, and risky process involved while the innovator waits to gain FDA approval. The time allowed for data exclusivity is critical for the future of biologics. A number of provisions for data exclusivity in recent legislative proposals ranged up to 14 years, however, the passing of the PPAC Act guarantees a 12-year time period from the time of FDA approval. This is supposed to compensate for perceived shortcomings in patent protection for biologics. Data exclusivity extends from the date of product approval, and this protection period runs concurrently with any remaining patent term protection for the biologic. That is to say, data exclusivity provides additional protection to the innovator when the remaining patent length is shorter than the data exclusivity period at the time of approval (which can occur due to lengthy pre-clinical and clinical research required to obtain FDA approval), or to the extent that the patent term is circumvented by a biosimilar prior to its expiry.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) and the FDA have been working for years on the nonproprietary naming of biosimilars. In August 2015, the FDA published a draft guideline on the topic. In brief, the guideline calls for the assignment of a four character alphabetic suffix to the nonproprietary name of the original product to distinguish between innovator drugs and their biosimilars. The WHO INN system calls this suffix a biologic modifier.\n\nThe legal requirements of approval pathways, together with the costly manufacturing processes, escalates the developing costs for biosimilars that could be between $75–$250 million per molecule. This market entry barrier affects not only the companies willing to produce them but could also delay availability of inexpensive alternatives for public healthcare institutions that subsidize treatment for their patients. Even though the biosimilars market is rising, the price drop for biological drugs at risk of patent expiration will not be as great as for other generic drugs; in fact it has been estimated that the price for biosimilar products will be 65%-85% of their originators. Biosimilars are drawing market's attention since there is an upcoming patent cliff, which will put nearly 36% of the $140 billion market for biologic drugs at risk (as of 2011), this considering only the top 10 selling products.\n\nThe global biosimilars market was $1.3 billion in 2013 and is expected to reach $35 billion by 2020 driven by the patent expiration of additional ten blockbuster biologic drugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "481812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=481812", "title": "Bobby Shriver", "text": "Bobby Shriver\n\nRobert Sargent Shriver III (born April 28, 1954) is an activist, attorney, journalist, and a member of the extended Kennedy family living in Santa Monica, California. He was a member of the Santa Monica City Council from 2004 to 2012, serving as mayor pro tem in 2006 and as mayor during part of 2010. He is a nephew of former U.S. President John F. Kennedy and former Senators Robert F. \"Bobby\" Kennedy and Edward M. \"Ted\" Kennedy.\n\nShriver was born in Chicago, Illinois, to Sargent Shriver (1915—2011) and Eunice Kennedy Shriver (1921—2009), the first of their five children. His siblings are, Maria (born 1955), Timothy (born 1959), Mark (born 1964) and Anthony (born 1965).\n\nBobby attended Yale College at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, where he was a member of the Scroll and Key Society. He graduated with a B.A. in American studies with \"cum laude\" honors. He graduated from Yale Law School with a J.D. in 1981.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Shriver clerked for a year for Judge Stephen R. Reinhardt at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which is headquartered in San Francisco, California.\n\nHe then moved to New York City to work in a venture capital business at James D. Wolfensohn, Inc.\n\nAlong with father Sarge, Eli Jacobs, and Larry Lucchino, Bobby was an investor from 1989 to 1993 in the Baltimore Orioles, a professional-baseball team based in Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nShriver is an attorney. He is also president of RSS Inc., a Beverly Hills, California music, film and philanthropic company. (The letters RSS are Shriver's initials.)\n\nIn 1987, he produced a prime-time television feature about the Special Olympics, an organization for disabled young people and founded by his mother in 1968. This and subsequent productions have raised in excess of US$55 million for the Special Olympics program.\n\nHe has also produced several films, including \"True Lies\" (1994), which starred Arnold Schwarzenegger – whose ex-wife is Shriver's sister, Maria Shriver.\n\nIn 2002, Shriver was a co-founder – with U2 lead singer Bono – of DATA (Debt, AIDS, Trade in Africa), a multinational, non-government organization whose purpose is to obtain social equality and justice for Africa through debt relief; adjust trade rules which burden Africa; eliminate the African AIDS epidemic; and strengthen democracy with more accountability by the wealthiest nations and African leaders with transparency towards the people.\n\nWith Shriver's involvement, DATA, in turn, was one of the founding organizations in 2004 of the ONE Campaign, a U.S.-based, non-partisan, non-profit organization which aims to increase U.S. government funding for and effectiveness of international-aid programs.\n\nIn 2006, he and Bono also co-founded, and Shriver is chief executive officer of, (Product) Red, a brand-licensing company, to raise money for The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The company licenses its \"(Product) Red\" logo to partner companies in return for the opportunity to increase their own revenue through the \"(Product) Red\" products that they sell.\n\nAfter Schwarzenegger became the Governor of California in 2004, he reappointed Shriver as chairman of the California State Park and Recreation Commission overseeing the state's parks and gardens. He had first been appointed by prior California Governor Gray Davis.\n\nIn 2005, Shriver, the commission chairman, and Clint Eastwood, the commission vice chairman, led a commission panel in its unanimous opposition to a six-lane, toll road that would cut through San Onofre State Beach (north of San Diego) that includes Trestles, a collection of surfing spots – one of Southern California's most-cherished. Shriver and Eastwood also supported a 2006 lawsuit to block the toll road and urged the California Coastal Commission to reject the project, which it did in February 2008.\n\nIn March 2008, Shriver and Eastwood, whose terms had expired, were not reappointed. The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) asked for a legislative investigation into the decision not to re-appoint Shriver and Eastwood, citing their opposition to the toll-road extension.\n\nSchwarzenegger's press release appointing Alice Huffman and Lindy DeKoven to replace Shriver and Eastwood makes no mention of a reason for the commission change.\n\nIn November 2004 Shriver ran for, and was elected to, a seat on the Santa Monica City Council. He stated that he decided to run for the seat after a dispute with the city over the height of the hedges at his home. He was one of thirteen candidates for four at-large council seats and received 23,260 votes, or 16.5 percent, of the vote. The other three winning candidates received 16,710, 14,475, and 13,408 votes.\n\nHe ran for re-election in 2008, again in a race in which thirteen candidates were running for four open seats. He again received the most votes, although he won by a smaller margin over the candidate receiving the second-most number of votes. Shriver received 24,298 votes, or 18.56 percent of the vote. The other three winning candidates received 20,232, 19,145, and 17,202 votes. Shriver's second term ended November 2012.\n\nOn March 13, 2009, an article in \"The Sacramento Bee\"'s \"Capitol Alert\" said that Shriver was considering becoming a candidate in the 2010 California Attorney General election. Kamala Harris, the Democratic candidate, was elected Attorney General.\n\nOn January 21, 2014, \"The Los Angeles Times\" reported that Shriver launched his campaign for Los Angeles County supervisor. Shriver was defeated by former state senator Sheila Kuehl.\n\nHe married Malissa Feruzzi on May 7, 2005. They have two daughters, Natasha Hunt Lee (born 1997) and Rosemary Kennedy Shriver (born 2009).\n\nIn 2007, Shriver received The Advertising Club's \"Silver Medal Award\"—also known as the Advertising Person of the Year Award—for his work with (RED). The annual award recognizes those who have made outstanding contributions to the advertising industry, furthering industry standards, demonstrating creative excellence and responsibility in areas of social concern.\n\nIn February 2008, he was honored with amfAR, The Foundation for AIDS's Award of Courage for his outstanding contribution to HIV/AIDS research and awareness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4505408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4505408", "title": "CFO (magazine)", "text": "CFO (magazine)\n\nCFO is a monthly magazine published in the United States. It was launched in 1985 for chief financial officers (CFOs) and other financial executives in companies in the U.S. The Economist Group acquired the magazine in 1988 and sold it in 2010 to the private equity firm Seguin Partners. In 2016, CFO was bought from Sequin Partners by Argyle Executive Forum, an events business that brings business information and thought leadership to leading professionals from Fortune 1000 companies in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.\nIt carries a mixture of regional and global content aimed at CFOs and other decision makers in their respective industries. \"CFO\" magazine reaches 440,000 individually qualified readers. The magazine is a requested, controlled-circulation title so all registered readers are senior level financial decision makers who have requested the magazine. \"CFO\"s circulation is audited by BPA Worldwide with a monthly unique audience of 440,000 users. Advertisers include banks, technology firms, consulting firms, accounting firms, travel services companies, and other companies providing business services.\n\n"}
{"id": "11135417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11135417", "title": "Corporate censorship", "text": "Corporate censorship\n\nCorporate censorship is censorship by corporations. It is when a spokesperson, employer, or business associate sanctions a speaker’s speech by threat of monetary loss, employment loss, or loss of access to the marketplace. It is present in many different kinds of industries.\n\nCorporate censorship in the E-commerce and technology industry is usually the explicit or implicit ban or suppression of certain material by a tech company from the product it offers. Earlier in 2018, Bloomberg reported that Google and Amazon are involved in a case of Russian censorship of a Russian company called Telegram. After Russian intelligence Federal Security Service (FSB) attempted to gain access to and found terrorist messages on Telegram, a messenger service in Russia with 15 million users, the app was banned by a Moscow court. In April 2018, Apple, Google, Amazon, and Microsoft were thanked by Telegram's founder for \"not taking part in political censorship.\" It is said that Google and Amazon were thanked because they were possibly engaged in domain fronting, a technique that circumvents Internet censorship. However, things later changed as Google and Amazon disabled domain fronting and helped in the Russian censors' endeavor.\n\nCorporate censorship in the music industry involves the censorship of musicians' artistic works by the refusal to market or to distribute them. One example given by Jay is that of Ice-T altering the lyrics of \"Cop Killer\" as a result of the pressure applied to Time Warner by William Bennett along with various religious and advocacy groups.\n\nThe 2012 PEN World Voices Festival focused on corporate censorship in the publishing industry with Salman Rushdie, author of \"Satanic Verses\", tackling censorship as \"anti-creation\". Giannina Braschi, author of \"United States of Banana\", offered a critique of 21st century capitalism in which she condemned corporate censorship as financial control. Braschi declared: \"Nobody owns a work of art, not even the artist.\"\n\nDeeDee Halleck opines that describing the corporate censorship of independent artists, which she notes is often less overt in form, as self-censorship \"smacks of blaming the victim.\" She describes such self-censorship as being simply a survival stratagem, the tailoring of an artist's choices to what is acceptable to those in power, based upon widespread knowledge of the acceptable themes and formats at institutions such as (her examples) the Public Broadcasting Service, the Whitney Biennial, the Museum of Modern Art, the Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibits gallery, or the Boston Institute of Contemporary Art.\n\nCroteau and Hoynes discuss corporate censorship in the news publishing business, observing that it can occur as self-censorship. They note that it is \"virtually impossible to document\", because it is covert. Jonathan Alter states that \"In a tight job market, the tendency is to avoid getting yourself or your boss in trouble. So an adjective gets dropped, a story skipped, a punch pulled … It's like that Sherlock Holmes story – the dog that didn't bark. Those clues are hard to find.\" The head of the Media Access Project notes that such self-censorship is not misreporting or false reporting, but simply \"not\" reporting at all. Self-censorship is not the product of \"dramatic conspiracies\", according to Croteau and Hoynes, but simply the interaction of many small daily decisions. Journalists want to keep their jobs and editors support the interests of the company. These many small actions and non-actions accumulate to produce (in their words) \"homogenized, corporate-friendly media\".\n\nNichols and McChesney opine that \"the maniacal media baron as portrayed in James Bond films or profiles of Rupert Murdoch is far less a danger than the cautious and compromised editor who seeks to 'balance' a responsibility to readers or viewers with a duty to serve his boss and the advertisers\". They state that \"even among journalists who entered the field for the noblest of reasons\" there is a tendency to avoid any controversial journalism that might embroil the news company in a battle with a powerful corporation or a government agency. They observe that although such conflicts \"have always been the stuff of great journalism\" they are \"very bad business\", and that \"in the current climate business trumps journalism just about every time\".\n\nCroteau and Hoynes report that such corporate censorship in journalism is commonplace, reporting the results of studies revealing that more than 40% of journalists and news executives stating that they had deliberately engaged in such censorship by avoiding newsworthy stories or softening the tones of stories. More than a third of the respondents stated that news organizations would ignore news that might hurt their financial interests. A similar fraction stated that they self-censored in order to further, or not endanger, their careers.\n\nHalleck states that journalists are well aware of where self-censorship is required, and what they have to say or not say in their stories in order to keep their jobs. She gives Sydney Schanberg as an example. A high-profile, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Schanberg breached corporate censorship when reporting on corruption in New York City with regards to the Westway project. In Schanberg's column in \"The New York Times\" he asked why the \"Times\" was not investigating the issues, and was subsequently laid off. Halleck notes that the negative feedback that enforces corporate censorship is usually not as well documented as in the case of Schanberg, nor as clear-cut. Corporations may change the assignments of problem journalists, accept fewer stories from them, downgrade their office space, or deny them raises.\n\nSelf-censorship is not the only form of corporate censorship in the news and entertainment businesses. Croteau and Hoynes also describe managers censoring their employees, subdivisions of conglomerates applying pressure upon one another, and pressure applied upon corporations by external entities such as advertisers. They note that many incidents of corporate censorship are \"unlikely to become public\", but give the following (and several other) case studies of incidents of corporate censorship that have become part of the public record:\n\n\nAn example given by Henry of censorship by a corporation rather than by a government is the censorship in May 2004 by The Sinclair Broadcasting Group of an issue of ABC News' \"Nightline\" entitled \"The Fallen\" wherein Ted Koppel recited the names and showed the faces of all Americans killed in action in Iraq. Sinclair, a strong proponent of the U.S. actions in Iraq, prohibited the six ABC affiliates that it owned from broadcasting the show, on the grounds that the program was \"motivated by a political agenda designed to undermine the efforts of the United States in Iraq\". (See Sinclair Broadcast Group#Nightline controversy and Nightline#Reading of the names.)\n\nMilner also notes, in addition, the list of songs circulated by Clear Channel Communications, and the 2003 ban on the Dixie Chicks (see Clear Channel Communications#September 11.2C 2001 and Dixie Chicks#Political controversy), stating his inference that \"these relatively public actions are merely the tip of a veritable iceberg of corporate censorship\", and arguing that publishers are \"by no means passive conduits for the transmission of cultural products from producers to consumers\" but are influenced to take an active rôle in that transmission by motives of profit, ideology, values, or even reasons of state.\n\nMajor corporations such as Wal-Mart are also responsible for such acts. They refuse to sell musical CD produced by artists which contain parental advisory stickers on them to their customers. Because of this, artists who want to reach out to Wal-Mart customers with their music need to change and edit their songs without any profanity in order for them to be put on shelves.\n\nOne of the incidents of corporate censorship that Croteau and Hoynes find to be \"the most disturbing\" in their view is the news reporting in the U.S. of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which made fundamental changes to the limitations on ownership of media conglomerates within the U.S. and which was heavily lobbied for by media interests, and yet which was subject to, in Croteau and Hoynes words, \"remarkably little coverage\" by U.S. news media. They report one study that found that in the nine months between the introduction of the bill into Congress and its passage in February 1996, there were only 12 major stories, comprising 19.5 minutes of air time, about the Act on the three major U.S. television networks, with much of this coverage focussing upon television content ratings and the V-chip and \"largely ignor[ing]\" the major changes to the media ownership rules. Croteau and Hoynes observe that history repeated itself with the 2003 review by the FCC of the media ownership rules, with a study by \"American Journalism Review\" concluding that the plan to alter the ownership regulations in favour of \"a handful of large companies\" was \"barely mentioned\" by most newspapers and broadcast outlets that were owned by those companies.\n\nCroteau and Hoynes state that this \"inadequate\" coverage of the legislation and FCC actions suggests a built-in conflict of interest for news media – one that is not just limited to television and radio news media, given that many newspapers are also owned by the same corporations that own the television and radio stations. Reporting fully the views of critics of the legislation would have been counter to the economic interests of the news media companies which benefited directly from the legislation, lobbied in its favour, and even helped to draft it. This conflict of interest was observed by John McCain during debate of the Telecommunications Act in the U.S. Senate, who stated that \"You will not see this story on any television or hear it on any radio broadcast because it directly affects them.\" Sohn similarly observed, in a 1998 critique of the deregulation by the Telecommunications Act, that increased concentration of media ownership \"often leads to a type of corporate censorship by which information affecting the large media company's economic interest is kept from the public's eyes and ears\".\n\nNichols and McChesney similarly observe that the exclusion of Ralph Nader from the three presidential debates in the 2000 presidential race by television networks guaranteed that the debates would not address controversial issues of media conglomeration. They note with irony that this was seemingly against the self-interests of the television stations, since it served to also reduce public interest in the televised presidential debates by rendering them, in their view, \"duller than dirt agreeathons\" that viewers would not be interested in watching.\n\nAmazon, as one of the largest e-commerce businesses in the United States, has been involved in controversies that point to its censorship-like actions. In 2010, Macmillan Publishers, along with some other publishers, asked Amazon to increase the prices of the electronic books it offered for sale on Amazon by 50% from $9.99 to $15, after obtaining permission from Apple to raise its prices, who was more lenient in allowing the publishers to determine prices themselves. Amazon disagreed with its proposal, and they didn't reach a consensus on how to deal with this problem. Amazon later removed all books published by Macmillan Publishers, including electronic books and physical books, from the website. Later, Amazon \"surrendered\" to Macmillan Publishers' request of price increase.\n\nAmazon has also engaged in activities where it censored customers' negative reviews. For example, in 2012, authors Joe Konrath and Steve Weddle reported that Amazon deleted their reviews in response to a wave of \"sock puppet\" controversies. In the scandal, many authors used anonymous accounts on Amazon to provide positive reviews for their own books and negative reviews for the competitors' work, on grounds not of quality but of who wrote the books. Amazon sought to rectify this problem by prohibiting authors from publishing reviews about other writers' works.\n\nIn 2013, a British website the Kernel published an article accusing Amazon, Kobo, and other e-book retailers of containing books with erotic material such as \"rape, incest, and 'forced sex' with young girls.\" It turned out that these were books written by self-published writers who wrote erotica books. Amazon responded to the Kernel's article by removing books under the categories mentioned in the article, including books depicting rape, incest, and child pornography. In response, some self-published writers engaged in a protest against Amazon's censorship, which had implicated some books that did not include erotic material as offensive as what Amazon should be and was targeting.\n\nIn 2014, in an effort to exert more control on online pricing, Amazon banned preorders of \"\" in disk form\".\" It was a continuation of similar strategies that Amazon once used with book publisher Hachette and film studio Warner Bros. Because the movie studios needed the sales profits from DVDs and blue-rays while Amazon could afford losing one customer, Amazon used this technique to add pressure on Walt Disney Co. for more pricing power.\n\nOne of the censorship practices Google is involved in is the censorship of information on Google China. Before Google's service was disabled in China, it complied with China's Internet policies and removed some content not appropriate to appear in the Chinese context. Google was criticized for violating its principle of promoting \"a generally open Internet.\" Google's CEO at the time, Eric Schmidt, affirmed Google's commitment to this, and also mentioned that complying with China's regulations was better than not being present the Chinese market at all. In January 2010, Google made an announcement that it wouldn't engage in further censoring activities. In September 2010, Google launched Google Transparency to share information about governments' and corporations' activities regarding information access and control.\n\nThere are increasing incidences across the world that involve censorship in Google, banning information from the general population. Google Maps' Street View, for example, does not cover military bases in the U.S. out of security concerns. The European Union also suggested that the Street View violates EU privacy laws.\n\nFacebook is a site in which people frequently publish information on their political stances or engage in political and social debates. Since 2009, Facebook has been supporting the rights of Holocaust deniers on posting on its website. In 2018, however, Facebook announced a new policy that it will remove \"misinformation that contributes to violence,\" while not enforcing a complete censor on those speeches. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, said that there are certain information people post because they took it wrong, but perhaps not because they intentionally took it wrong. Even if they did it on purpose, Facebook couldn't have found out their intentions and wouldn't try to do so. Thus, they are reviewing information on Facebook and taking down misrepresented, misleading, or offensive information, but not outright censoring information in certain categories, such as Holocaust denial. As a result of this policy, posts that falsely report on Muslims and Buddhists in Sri Lanka were removed.\n\nIn 2018, Facebook removed hundreds of pages related to U.S. politics on grounds of \"inauthentic activity\" one month before the midterm elections. Facebook representatives claimed that the posts and user accounts were deleted not because of the content of the posts, but because they violated Facebook's terms of service.\n\nFacebook has a set of community standards governing users' behaviors. These standards detail Facebook's policies on topics including \"hate speech, violent imagery, misrepresentation, terrorist propaganda and disinformation.\" Facebook mentioned its intention to let the users dispute its decisions by disclosing their standards. Facebook also wishes to assuage the concerns of critics who accused it of mistakenly or unjustifiably removing contents before. The process which Facebook uses to delete posts and block accounts was not transparent and the criteria not explicitly stated. In November 2018, Facebook published its first Transparency Report on how the Community Standards are adhered to in regulating the languages that appear on Facebook.\n\nIn 1969, Nicholas Johnson, United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) commissioner, and then president of CBS News Richard Salant, debated the scope and existence of corporate censorship in a series of articles published in \"TV Guide\".\n\nJohnson's view, put forward in an article entitled \"The Silent Screen\" is that \"Censorship is a serious problem\" in the United States, and that he agrees with the statements by various network officials that television is subject to it, but disputes \"just who is doing most of the censoring\". He states that most television censorship is corporate censorship, not government censorship. One of the several examples that he gives in support of this argument is that of WBAI in New York City, which the FCC declined to censure for the publication a poem that was alleged to be anti-Semitic. He argues that \"[m]any broadcasters are fighting, not for free speech, but for profitable speech. In the WBAI case, for example, one of the industry's leading spokesmen, \"Broadcasting\" magazine, actually urged that WBAI be punished by the FCC – and on the same editorial page professed outrage that stations might not have an unlimited right to broadcast profitable commercials for cigarettes which may result in illness or death.\"\n\nJohnson quotes examples of corporate censorship reported by Stan Opotowsky in \"TV  – The Big Picture\": \"Ford deleted a shot [of] the New York skyline because it showed the Chrysler building [...] A breakfast-food sponsor deleted the line 'She eats too much' from a play because, as far as the breakfast-food company was concerned, nobody could ever eat too much.\" He quotes Bryce Rucker writing in \"The First Freedom\" that \"Networks generally have underplayed or ignored events and statements unfavorable to food processors and soap manufacturers\". He notes that \"corporate tampering with the product of honest and capable journalists and creative writers and performers can be quite serious\". He points to a 3 September 1969 report by \"Variety\" that ABC \"had tailored some of its documentaries to fit the corporate desires of Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Company\", and cites examples given by Bill Greeley in a 4 February 1970 \"Variety\" article of \"shrunken or vanished\" documentaries at CBS, which have been \"shelved, turned down, or killed\".\n\nHe also gives several examples of television network officials who have resigned over issues of corporate censorship: Fred Friendly resigning from CBS News because on 10 February 1966 it did not televise the Senate hearings on the Vietnam war; the head of the National Association of Broadcasters Code Authority resigning \"in disgust over the hypocrisy exhibited by the NAB's stand on cigarette advertisements\".\n\nHe points out several commonalities in a long list of incidents that he cites:\n\n\nJohnson states that \"many pressures produce such censorship\", some deliberate and some by default, but that \"all have come, not from government, but from private corporations with something to sell\". He notes an exchange in the letters page of \"The New York Times\" between Charles Tower, chairman of the National Association of Broadcasters Television Board and a reader, with Tower saying \"There is a world of difference between the deletion of program material by Government command and the deletion by a private party [such as a broad-caster] [...] Deletion by Government command is censorship [...] Deletion of material by private parties [...] is not censorship.\" but his respondent rebutting this with \"Mr. Tower's distinction [...] is spurious. The essence of censorship is the suppression of a particular point of view [...] over the channels of the mass media, and the question of who does the censoring is one of form only.\" Johnson concurs with the latter view, stating that the outcome is the same.\n\nSalant's view, put forward in an article entitled \"He Has Exercised His Right – To Be Wrong\" was that Johnson was \"totally completely, 100 percent wrong – on all counts\", providing many examples of CBS' coverage of the things enumerated by Johnson, saying, \"In the 11 years I was a CBS corporate officer and in the six years that I have been president of CBS News, to my knowledge there is no issue, no topic, no story which CBS News has ever been forbidden, or instructed directly or indirectly, to cover or not to cover, by corporate management.\"\n\nThe constitutional and other legal protections that prohibit or limit government censorship of the Internet in some countries do not generally apply to private corporations. Corporations may voluntarily choose to limit the content they make available or allow others to make available on the Internet. Or corporations may be encouraged by government pressure or required by law or court order to remove or limit Internet access to content that is judged to be obscene (including child pornography), harmful to children, defamatory, pose a threat to national security, promote illegal activities such as gambling, prostitution, theft of intellectual property, hate speech, and inciting violence.\n\nCorporations that provide Internet access for their employees, customers, students, or members will sometimes limit this access in an attempt to ensure it is used only for the purposes of the corporation. This can include content-control software to limit access to entertainment content in business and educational settings and limiting high-bandwidth services in settings where bandwidth is at a premium. Some institutions also block outside e-mail services as a precaution, usually initiated out of concerns for local network security or concerns that e-mail might be used intentionally or unintentionally to allow trade secrets or other confidential information to escape.\n\nSome websites that allow user-contributed content may practice self-censorship by adopting policies on how the web site may be used and by banning or requiring pre-approval of editorial contributions from users that do not follow the policies for the site.\nIn 2007, Verizon attempted to block the abortion rights group NARAL Pro-Choice America from using their text messaging services to speak to their supporters. Verizon claims it was in order to enforce a policy that doesn't allow their customers to use their service to communicate \"controversial\" or \"unsavory\" messages. Comcast, AT&T and many other ISP's have also been accused of regulating internet traffic and bandwidth.\n\nIn February 2008, the \"Bank Julius Baer v. WikiLeaks\" lawsuit prompted the United States District Court for the Northern District of California to issue a permanent injunction against the website WikiLeaks' domain name registrar. The result was that WikiLeaks could not be accessed through its web address. This elicited accusations of censorship and resulted in the Electronic Frontier Foundation stepping up to defend Wikileaks. After a later hearing, the injunction was lifted.\n\nOn 1 December 2010 Amazon.com cut off WikiLeaks 24 hours after being contacted by the staff of Joe Lieberman, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security. In a statement Lieberman said:\n[Amazon's] decision to cut off WikiLeaks now is the right decision and should set the standard for other companies WikiLeaks is using to distribute its illegally seized material. I call on any other company or organization that is hosting WikiLeaks to immediately terminate its relationship with them. \nConstitutional lawyers say that this is not a first amendment issue because Amazon, as a private company, is free to make its own decisions. Kevin Bankston, a lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, agreed that this is not a violation of the first amendment, but said it was nevertheless disappointing. \"This certainly implicates first amendment rights to the extent that web hosts may, based on direct or informal pressure, limit the materials the American public has a first amendment right to access\".\n\neNom, a private domain name registrar and Web hosting company operating in the U.S., disables domain names which appear on a U.S. Treasury Department blacklist.\n\nIn January 2007 Eli Lilly and Company obtained a restraining order from a U.S. District Court that forbade activists in the psychiatric survivors movement from posting links on their websites to ostensibly leaked documents which purportedly showed that Eli Lilly and Company intentionally withheld information as to the lethal side-effects of Zyprexa. The Electronic Frontier Foundation appealed this as prior restraint on the right to link to and post documents, saying that citizen-journalists should have the same First Amendment rights as major media outlets. It was later held that the judgment was unenforcable, though First Amendment claims were rejected.\n\nSchools and libraries may use Internet filters to block material deemed inappropriate for the school or library setting or inappropriate for children, including pornography, advertising, chat, gaming, social networking, and online forum sites.\n\nPublic and private K-12 schools and libraries in the U.S. that accept funds from the federal E-rate program or LSTA grants for Internet access or internal connections are required by CIPA to have an \"Internet safety policy and technology protection measures in place\".\n\nAccording to the National Conference of State Legislatures, in September 2013:\n\nSome corporations practice greater levels of self-censorship in international versions of their online services. This is most notably the case in these corporations' dealings in China.\n\nOn 12 March 2013 Reporters Without Borders published a \"Special report on Internet Surveillance\". The report included a list of \"Corporate Enemies of the Internet\", companies that sell products that are liable to be used by governments to violate human rights and freedom of information. The five \"Corporate Enemies of the Internet\" named in March 2013 were: Amesys (France), Blue Coat Systems (U.S.), Gamma (UK and Germany), Hacking Team (Italy), and Trovicor (Germany), but the list was not exhaustive and is likely to be expanded in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36674575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36674575", "title": "Country-of-origin effect", "text": "Country-of-origin effect\n\nThe country-of-origin effect (COE), also known as the made-in image and the nationality bias, is a psychological effect describing how consumers' attitudes, perceptions and purchasing decisions are influenced by products' country of origin labeling. Since 1965, it has been extensively studied by researchers.\n\nCountry of origin labelling originated in 1887 when the British government, in an effort to reduce sales of German and other non-English products to English consumers, passed a law requiring products manufactured outside England to be labeled with their country of origin.\n\nIn the United States, the labeling of garments came into law under the Textile Fiber Products Identification Act (TFPIA). The act itself imposes regulations on the advertising and labeling of textile fiber products that are being imported and exported out of the United States. These products are defined in the act as, \"any fiber, yarn, or fabric used or intended for use in household textile articles\". Household textile articles include \"wearing apparel, costumes, draperies, floor coverings, furnishings, and bedding\". The goal of the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act is to protect producers and consumers against mislabeling or false advertising about the fiber content of textile fiber products. It wasn't until 1984 that the TFPIA was amended to include items made in The United States stating that they were \"Made in U.S.A\".\n\nAlong with outlining each fiber used within the product, the manufacturer must label country-of-origin information. This information must be readily accessible on garments for quick examination. Garments that include a neck must adhere a label midway between the shoulder seams on the inside center of the neck. Garments or products that do not include a neck must incorporate a country-of-origin label on a visible area on the inner or outer parts of the product.\n\nFrom the time that the act was introduced, the importing of apparel increased drastically in the United States. While this helped the economy domestically and globally, it also hurt the clothing manufacturing industry in the US. Before the act, 95% of clothing purchased in the US was produced stateside. Now, less than 4% purchased is made within the United States.\n\nIn some cases, manufacturing goods on a mass level can require many different suppliers and manufacturers to complete a finished product. More often than not, the tasks associated with completing a finished product do not take place in just one single manufacturer or country. In an article for the Business of Fashion, Solca states that, \"Made in disclosures are not required for products traded within the European Union. Even where required, 'Made in' criteria are easy to meet: cost thresholds can be reached with finishing, quality control and packaging, while manufacturing is kept offshore\".\n\nResearch suggests that country of origin (COO) serves as a cue from which consumers make inferences about product and product attributes. The COO cue triggers a global evaluation of quality, performance, or specific product attributes. Consumers infer attributes to the product based on country stereotype and experiences with products from that country. Hence, a COO cue has become an important information cue for consumers who are exposed to far more internationalized product selection and multinational marketing than ever before. Thereby, the country of origin may even affect consumers' perceptions beyond their conscious control. Research into COO has focused on various issues linking COO with other marketing variables, including consumer nationalism, demographics, hybrid products, brand effects, product quality, price, consumer perceptions, technology sophistication, product features, advertising images, and country images, to measure consumer perceptions and purchasing behavior (Ahmed et al., 2004; Badri, Davis, & Davis, 1995; Hamzaoui & Merunka, 2006). \n\nIt has been empirically demonstrated that the COO effect has significant price-related consequences and brands with favorable COO associations are able to charge price premiums, over and above those attributed to observed product differentiation (Saridakis & Baltas, 2016).\n\nThe country of origin effect is strongest on older consumers and those who don't know much about the product or product type, and weakest on consumers who are well-informed. Sensitivity to country of origin varies by product category. It is strongest for durable goods and luxury goods and weakest for \"low involvement\" product categories such as shampoo, candy, light bulbs, toilet paper and athletic shoes. When the countries of design, manufacture and the parent brand are different, research suggests all three matter to consumers, but the country of manufacture may matter most.\n\nSome research suggests that younger consumers care significantly less than older people about country of origin, but other studies resulted in different findings. The research on whether men or women care more about country of origin is also inconclusive.\n\nA U.S. study found American college students more willing to buy a \"made in China\" teddy bear when it was sold at an American store they believed was benevolent, competent and honest, suggesting that negative country of origin effects may be offset when consumers trust the store selling the product.\n\nConsumers have a relative preference or aversion for products, depending on the products' country of origin (this is called affinity and animosity).\n\nIn some countries consumers tend to prefer products made in their own country (also known as consumer ethnocentrism) and in others foreign-made products tend to be preferred. A preference for locally-made products has been linked to a collectivist culture, and a preference for foreign-made products is associated with a more individualistic, competitive culture, and also with countries that are less economically developed.\n\nOne of the biggest challenges many Asian companies face as they globalise is the perception that Asian brands are inferior. Research in international marketing has proven that country associations do lead to customer bias and this bias depends on how a customer views the image of a country. French wine, German cars, Japanese robots, Colombian coffee, Italian fashion, Singaporean efficiency, Swiss chocolate. Somewhere in our minds, these products and services are associated with particular countries owing to their legacy or culture or lifestyle, which automatically leads us to perceive them as 'premium'. Some brands have even been given foreign names, to create a perceived 'COO' effect. Häagen-Dazs, the US-based ice cream company started by Jewish-Polish immigrants in New York, in 1961, was deliberately given a Scandinavian-sounding name to convey an aura of the old-world traditions and craftsmanship.\n\nMany factors contribute to the country image including:\nof the country's economy: most countries with a positive COO effect are highly industrialized, developed countries\nextent of technological advancement of a country: the higher the technological capability of a country, the more positive is the COO effect\nform of government: the success of capitalism and the resulting market economy around the world has created inherent perceptions (often negative) about countries that do not follow capitalism. A related aspect is the reputation of the government and its corporate governance – how bureaucratic, transparent, corrupt or efficient is a country's government?\n\nConsumers are generally felt to perceive Chinese products as low-quality, and to associate \"made in China\" labelling with value pricing, unskilled labour and inexpensive materials. In 2007 and 2008 China's reputation suffered worldwide due to product safety institutions in many parts of the world recalling Chinese-made products, such as pet food, toys, toothpaste and lipstick, because of concerns about their quality and safety.\n\nSome products are strongly associated with a particular country, such as (in the Western world) silk with China, spices with India, wine with France, chocolate with Belgium, cars with Germany, fashion with Italy and electronics with Japan. Such products labeled as originating in that country will benefit from a halo effect, with consumers assuming they are high quality.\n\nCountries that are less economically developed tend to have a negative country image and a negative country-of-origin effect.\n\nAssociations vary by country and region. Japan is universally understood to manufacture high-quality products, and yet historical animosity between it and some other Eastern Asian countries may reduce those countries' purchasing of Japanese products. A1965 study found Guatemalan students gave lower evaluations to products from El Salvador and Costa Rica than to domestic and Mexican products because of a general negative attitude toward people from El Salvador and Guatemala. French consumers avoid buying American products due to animosity towards U.S. politics and perceived U.S. passivity during the French Revolution. Throughout Southeast Asia, Korean goods are very highly valued.\n\nWith the increasing importance of the service sector, also research has focussed on the influences of COO on service perception. Although not as intensively researched as with products, COO is proven to apply also on Services, e.g. when expecting a higher degree of engineering consulting by a German consultancy firm.\n\nCompanies are seeking to communicate the COO and to increase their customer's COO awareness with a number of different strategies:\n\n\nPerceptions of countries and their products change over time. Since the late 19th century the German reputation for quality and attention to detail has helped it sell products internationally, but its reputation was significantly damaged during the First World War and Second World War.\n\n"}
{"id": "6269850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6269850", "title": "Dominance (economics)", "text": "Dominance (economics)\n\nMarket dominance is a measure of the strength of a brand, product, service, or firm, relative to competitive offerings. There is often a geographic element to the competitive landscape. In defining market dominance, you must see to what extent a product, brand, or firm controls a product category in a given geographic area.\n\nThere are several ways of calculating market dominance. The most direct is market share. This is the percentage of the total market served by a firm or brand. A declining scale of market shares is common in most industries: that is, if the industry leader has say 50% share, the next largest might have 25% share, the next 12% share, the next 6% share, and all remaining firms combined might have 7% share.\n\nMarket share is not a perfect proxy of market dominance. The influences of customers, suppliers, competitors in related industries, and government regulations must be taken into account. Although there are no hard and fast rules governing the relationship between market share and market dominance, the following are general criteria:\n\nMarket shares within an industry might not exhibit a declining scale. There could be only two firms in a duopolistic market, each with 50% share; or there could be three firms in the industry each with 33% share; or 100 firms each with 1% share. The concentration ratio of an industry is used as an indicator of the relative size of leading firms in relation to the industry as a whole. One commonly used concentration ratio is the \"four-firm concentration ratio\", which consists of the combined market share of the four largest firms, as a percentage, in the total industry. The higher the concentration ratio, the greater the market power of the leading firms.\n\nAlternatively, there is the Herfindahl index. It is a measure of the size of firms in relation to the industry and an indicator of the amount of competition among them. It is defined as the sum of the squares of the market shares of each individual firm. As such, it can range from 0 to 10,000, moving from a very large amount of very small firms to a single monopolistic producer. Decreases in the Herfindahl index generally indicate a loss of pricing power and an increase in competition, whereas increases imply the opposite.\n\nKwoka's \"dominance index\" (D) is defined as the sum of the squared differences between each firm's share and the next largest share in a market: \n\nwhere\n\nAs part of its merger review process, Mexican Competition Commission uses García Alba's \"dominance index\" (ID), described as the Herfindahl index of a Herfindahl index (HHI). Formally, ID is the sum of squared firm contributions to the market HHI: formula_3 where formula_4\n\n\"Asymmetry Index\" (AI) is defined as the statistical variance of market shares: formula_5 \n\nThere are different perspectives of what indicates dominance and how to go about establishing dominance. One of these being the perspective of the European Commission regarding their application of Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Formerly Article 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community), that deals specifically with the abuse of dominance in the market regarding competition law.\n\nThe European Commission equates dominance with the economic concept of substantial market power, which indicates that dominance can be exerted and abused, in its Guidance on A102 Enforcement Priorities. In paragraph 10 of the Guidance, it is stated that where there is no competitive pressure, an undertaking, which is a legal entity acting in the course of business, is probably able to exercise substantial market power. Furthermore, in paragraph 11, this is developed on, arguing if an undertaking can increase their products above the competitive price level, and does not face economic restraints, it is therefore dominant. For example, in basic terms, if two businesses are selling competing products, and one can increase their selling price, and not suffer an economic consequence such as a boycott of their products or a shift of their customers to a cheaper product, they are dominant.\n\nThe Guidance is not law, it is instead a set of rules the courts are to follow. However, the same definition can be found elsewhere, in Chapter 3 of the Unilateral Conduct Workbook. The Guidance is also supported by paragraph 65 of the Commission’s judgement in \"United Brands v Commission\". \n\n“65\"THE DOMINANT POSITION REFERRED TO IN THIS ARTICLE (102) RELATES TO A POSITION OF ECONOMIC STRENGTH ENJOYED BY AN UNDERTAKING WHICH ENABLES IT TO PREVENT EFFECTIVE COMPETITION BEING MAINTAINED ON THE RELEVANT MARKET BY GIVING IT THE POWER TO BEHAVE TO AN APPRECIABLE EXTENT INDEPENDENTLY OF ITS COMPETITORS , CUSTOMERS AND ULTIMATELY OF ITS CONSUMERS.\"\"\n\nThe identification of the relevant and geographic market must first be established before being able to calculate shares or an undertaking’s dominance within that market. Dominance as an economic concept is determined within EU competition law through a 2-stage process, which first requires the identification of the relevant market as was established in \"Continental Can v Commission\". This was affirmed in paragraph 30 of the judgement of \"AstraZeneca AB v Commission\", in which the Commission stated that it must be assessed whether an undertaking is able to act independently of its competitors, customers and consumers. \n\nThe identification of the relevant and geographic market is assessed through the hypothetical monopolist test, which questions would a party’s customer, switch to an alternative supplier located elsewhere, in response to a small relative price increase. Therefore, it is a question of interchangeability and demand substitutability, meaning whether one product can be a substitute for another, and whether an undertaking's market power puts them above price competition. The second stage of the test requires the Commission to look at various factors to see if an undertaking enjoys a dominant position on that relevant market. \n\nIdentifying a dominant position involves the use of several factors. The European Commission’s Guidance on A102 states that a dominant position is derived from a combination of factors, which taken separately are not determinative. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the constraints imposed by existing supplies from, and the position of, actual competitors, meaning those who are competing with the undertaking in question. This involves looking at the day-to-day downwards pressure that retains low product prices and competitiveness within the market, which market shares are only useful as a first indication of; this needs to be followed by the consideration of other factors such as market conditions and dynamics. \n\nThe Guidance also states that the constraints imposed by the credible threat of future expansion by actual competitors, or entry by potential competitors, is a required factor of consideration. For example, Intellectual Property in the form of patent protection, is a potential legal barrier to entering the market for new businesses, as was shown in \"Microsoft Corp\". In this case, the Court of Justice confirmed the Commission’s decision, that Microsoft were dominant and had abused their dominant position regarding their refusal to supply the interoperability information for operating PC Windows with other systems. Microsoft was forced to licence out its interoperability data.\n\nThe final point that must be considered is the bargaining strength of the undertaking’s customers, also known as the countervailing buyer power. This refers to the competitive constraints that customers may exert where they are a large size, or commercially significant, for a dominant firm. However, the Commission will not come to a final decision without examining all of the factors which may be relevant to constrain the behaviour of the undertaking. \n\nRelevance of market shares\n\nAccording to the European Commission, market shares provide a useful first indication of the structure of any market and of the relative importance of the various undertakings active on it. In paragraph 15 of the Guidance on A102, the European Commission state that a high market share over a long period of time can be a preliminary indication of dominance. The International Competition Network stress that determining whether substantial market power is apparent should not be based on market shares alone, but instead an analysis of all factors affecting the competitive conditions in the market, should be used.\n\n100% market shares are very rare but can arise in niche areas, a close example of this being 91.8% market share in \"Tetra Pak 1 (BTG Licence)\", and the 96% market share in plasterboard held by BPB in \"BPB Industries Plc v Commission OJ\". \n\nIn \"Hoffman-La Roche v Commission\", the Court of Justice said that large market shares are ‘evidence of the existence of a dominant position’ which led to the Court of Justice decision in \"AKZO v Commission\" that where there is market share of at least 50%, without exceptional circumstances, there will be a presumption of dominance that shifts the burden of proof on to the undertaking. The European Commission has affirmed this threshold in cases since AKZO. For example, in paragraph 100 of the Commission Judgment in the Court of First Instance in \"France Telecom v Commission\", the Commission state that ‘…very large shares are in themselves, and save in exceptional circumstances, evidence of the existence of a dominant position…’, citing the Court of Justice judgement in AZKO, paragraph 60, ‘…this was so in the case of a 50% market share.’. \n\nEuropean Commission's \"Tenth Report on Competition\" implies that a significant disparity between the largest and the second-largest firm shares can indicate that the largest firm has a dominant position in the market. Specifically, under a section entitled \"Scrutiny of mergers for compatibility with Article 86 EEC,\" the Report states:\n\n"}
{"id": "22480540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22480540", "title": "Downtown Albany Historic District", "text": "Downtown Albany Historic District\n\nThe Downtown Albany Historic District is a 19-block, area of Albany, New York, United States, centered on the junction of State (New York State Route 5) and North and South Pearl streets (New York State Route 32). It is the oldest settled area of the city, originally planned and settled in the 17th century, and the nucleus of its later development and expansion. In 1980 it was designated a historic district by the city and then listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nIts 160 buildings are a mix of tall commercial buildings on the main streets and small houses on the side. Most were built between 1880 and 1930, the district's period of significance, with some dating to the 1810s. All major streets have a major building as their focal point. Several contributing properties have been listed on the Register in their own right, and one designated a National Historic Landmark. Albany's earliest skyscrapers were built here, including one that was the city's tallest at the time of its completion. The current mix of buildings reflects the city's peak of industrial prosperity in the Gilded Age, with many built by banks, as well as the city's status as New York's state capital.\n\nIt has been displaced in the city's skyline by later construction, particularly by the Empire State Plaza, the modernist home of New York's state government. Urban renewal programs of the late 20th century largely bypassed the district for political reasons. As a result, its historic buildings are mostly intact, although some have been compromised through neglect.\n\nThe district is an irregular area, shaped like a rough crescent. It is centered along the axes of North and South Pearl (NY 32) and State (NY 5 west of Pearl) streets. A combination of natural features, streets, and legal boundaries serves to delineate it. Downtown is located to the northeast of and downhill from the modernist towers of Empire State Plaza, and east of the state capitol.\n\nOn the east it is bounded by the Hudson River and Interstate 787, with Eagle Street its western side (excluding City Hall, the state Court of Appeals and the county courthouse). To the north, the boundary follows Columbia Street to Chapel Street, then north to Sheridan Street. It continues east to North Pearl and then follows rear lot lines along the north side of Columbia to Broadway and out to I-787, then turns south.\n\nAt the district's southern tip, it comes inland again to Pruyn Street, which it follows for a block to Liberty Street and then turns north to Hudson Avenue, where it follows an irregular route along property lines to Norton Street. Here it continues west to South Pearl, and after a short twist to the north it follows Howard Street west. At William Street it turns south again, and then follows some property lines west to Beaver Street across from the Times Union Center. At Wendell Street it turns north to Howard and follows Howard west back to Eagle.\n\nThis area takes in 19 blocks and parts of several others. James and Steuben streets, as well as Maiden Lane, are included in their entirety along with some narrow alleys within blocks. The area is totally developed, with many multistory buildings used as office space with storefronts at street level. Open space between them and on the edges is used for parking lots. There are no significant parks or squares within it.\n\nDowntown has always been the center of Albany from its founding in the 17th century. Its built environment did not take its present form until the late 19th. Since then it has remained relatively stable, with some decaying buildings facing demolition pressure as part of redevelopment efforts.\n\nThe area within the district was the same as that originally settled by the Dutch in the 17th century north of Fort Orange, a high area between two ravines that have since been filled in. It became British in 1664 and was renamed Albany, in honor of King James II, Duke of Albany prior to his coronation.\n\nThe grid plan of the area's streets was laid out at this time, although it was mostly unbuilt as the city was within a stockade. Most commercial buildings at the time, primarily warehouses, were located on what is now Broadway. The 1815 Coulson Building at 420 Broadway, the oldest building in the district, is typical of that kind of construction. The inland blocks were residential.\n\nAlbany was a point of contention during both the French and Indian and Revolutionary wars, and the New York State Legislature met there in 1780 after British occupation ended. In 1797 it was designated the state capital.\n\nMore residences were built, primarily to be rented to lawyers and legislators working in the capitol and the courts. The city began to expand and annex surrounding land to handle its growth. The opening of the Erie Canal in the 1820s and the development of railroads in later decades made the city a transportation hub, and as its commercial power and the state's grew it assumed more political importance. Smaller buildings remained the norm along the side streets, with churches springing up next to them. Richard Upjohn's French Gothic St. Peter's Episcopal Church on State, finished in 1860, is considered one of his best churches. Another church, St. Mary's, by the local firm of Nicholls and Brown, became the focal point of a neighborhbood of small houses on and near Lodge Street. Richard Upjohn's French Gothic St. Peter's Episcopal Church on State, finished in 1860, is considered one of his best churches.\n\nIn the years after the Civil War commercial interests started building taller and more massive edifices along North Pearl and State streets. Albany native Edward Ogden designed the 1873 Kenmore Hotel on North Pearl, and expanded it in 1891 with Queen Anne touches. His 1889 Albany Business College building opposite the Kenmore likewise uses the Richardsonian Romanesque style. Another local architect, Albert Puller, had given downtown the YMCA building at 60 North Pearl, in that style three years earlier\n\nThe Albany architect who had the greatest impact on the district was Marcus T. Reynolds, with six buildings, most of them from the early 20th century. The most prominent is his 1914 headquarters for the Delaware and Hudson Railway on the east side of Broadway. A copy of the Cloth Hall in the Belgian city of Ypres, it has become an icon of the city, often mistaken by first-time visitors for the state capitol. \n\nIt serves as a focal point when looking east down State Street. Two of Reynolds' other buildings in the district, the 1897 First Trust Company Building at State and Broadway, and the 1902 United Traction Company Building at Broadway and Columbia, similarly guide the eye down Broadway as it bends.\n\nArchitects from New York City also built in Albany. In 1875, Russell Sturgis had designed the Victorian Gothic bank building at 63 State Street, and it was paired with a neoclassical bank building by York and Sawyer a quarter-century later at 60 State. Henry Ives Cobb incorporated the 1803 façade of Philip Hooker's State Bank of Albany building into a 16-story office building at North Pearl and State. Near the end of the period of significance, Dennison and Hiron's Art Deco Home Savings Bank Building was the tallest in Albany at the time of its 1927 completion. It was quickly displaced from that title by the state government's Alfred E. Smith Building the next year.\n\nNo major building took place downtown in the 1930s due to the combination of it being built out and the slowdown in construction occasioned by the onset of the Great Depression. When the economy regained its footing after World War II, the focus of new development had shifted to outlying areas and then the suburbs. Downtown remained a popular place for politicians and those who associated with them to patronize, but otherwise began to decline in a similar fashion as other old Northeastern cities.\n\nA 1969 redevelopment plan identified the \"obsolete street plan\" and lack of quality parking as a source of downtown's problems. It proposed reconfiguring the streets to coordinate better with the expressways proposed for the area at the time. A large pedestrian mall was proposed for the area between Chapel and Broadway, with the intervening blocks of Steuben, Pearl and Pine to be closed off to vehicles. A platform was to cross the interstate and provide a pedestrian link to marinas and apartments along the river. To make up for the lost streets, Chapel would have become North Pearl, and a bridge would be built to extend Eagle Street to Clinton Avenue at Ten Broeck Street. Eventually, it was hoped, a people mover system would be built to link Empire Plaza and downtown, with new parking garages on the fringes, one of which would have required rerouting Liberty Street and Hudson Avenue.\nThe old buildings were spared the fate of demolition through urban renewal as the city's political machine under Daniel P. O'Connell mostly eschewed the federal funding for such projects since the federal government would award contracts, limiting the city machine's patronage. New development in the center of Albany instead took the form of what was originally known as the \"South Mall Project\" proposed by Governor Nelson Rockefeller. This cleared southwest of downtown for a complex centered on five tall state office buildings in high modernist style. When completed in the late 1970s, Empire State Plaza became the new centerpiece of the city's skyline, and Erastus Corning Tower its tallest building. The Delaware and Hudson moved out of its building following the decline in its industry, and after a few years of vacancy it was purchased by the state to become the main headquarters of the State University of New York.\n\nIn the late 1980s Sebba Rockaway, a British developer, proposed to demolish a row of buildings, all contributing, at 136–40 State Street and replace them with a 14-story office complex. Preservationists objected, but the city granted permission. The project was later canceled when Sebba failed to find tenants for the property. A decade later, it put forth a similar expanded proposal, which would have demolished not only the original properties but the long-vacant Wellington Row which includes the Wellington and Berkshire hotels, as well as the former Albany Elks lodge.\n\nThis time the preservationists sued the city to stop the demolition. The buildings continued to deteriorate, and in 2004 a section of State Street was closed since part of the Wellington's cornice was in danger of falling into it. A new owner, Columbia Development Companies, bought the properties and finally reached a compromise that preserved the façades of the Wellington and the other State Street buildings, with the new office building to rise behind them. Demolition began in 2009.\n\nNew construction or expansion within the district is reviewed by the city's Historic Resources Commission (HRC), a group of nine citizens with an interest in architecture, history or historic preservation appointed by the mayor. The HRC also considers new city landmark designations. The area also comes under the purview of several of Albany's neighborhood associations.\n\nSix of the district's properties are listed on the National Register in their own right, and one is a National Historic Landmark. There are several others that are notable.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48181542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48181542", "title": "Edward W. Forbes", "text": "Edward W. Forbes\n\nEdward W. Forbes (1873-1969) was an American art historian. He was the Director of the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University from 1909 to 1944.\n\nEdward Waldo Forbes, of the Forbes family, was born on July 16, 1873 on Naushon Island off Cape Cod in Massachusetts. His father, William Hathaway Forbes, was a co-founder of the Bell Telephone Company with Alexander Graham Bell. His mother, Edith Emerson Forbes, was the daughter of poet Ralph Waldo Emerson. His paternal grandfather, John Murray Forbes, was a French-born railroad magnate, merchant, and abolitionist. His brother, William Cameron Forbes, went on to serve as the United States Ambassador to Japan from 1930 to 1932.\n\nForbes was educated at the Milton Academy, a boarding school in Milton, Massachusetts. He graduated from Harvard University in 1895. While he was at Harvard, he attended art history lectures by Charles Eliot Norton. Forbes traveled to Europe in 1908, where he studied Italian paintings. He attended the University of Oxford, studying English Literature from 1900 to 1902.\n\nForbes co-founded the Harvard River Associates in 1902 with Robert Bacon, James Abercrombie Burden, Jr., Augustus Hemenway and Thomas Nelson Perkins. The real estate venture consisted in acquiring land between the Harvard Yard and the Charles River for US$400,000 to preserve the beauty of the area near the Harvard campus remained \"collegiate\". Subsequently, the land became part of the campus in its expansion.\n\nForbes taught at his alma mater, Middlesex School, from 1904 to 1905. By 1907, he conducted a course on Florentine painting at his other alma mater, Harvard University. He became a Lecturer in Fine Arts at Harvard in 1909. By 1935, he was promoted as the Martin A. Ryerson Professor in the Fine Arts at Harvard University. He retired in 1944.\n\nForbes served as the Director of the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University from 1909 to 1944. Under his leadership, the art collection was vastly expanded, and a new building was constructed in 1927. He led many fundraising campaigns with Paul J. Sachs. He founded the Center for Conservation and Technical Studies, later renamed the Straus Center for Conservation and Technical Studies. He promoted the X-ray study of the paintings in the museum collection. He urged art conservator George L. Stout to work with chemist Rutherford John Gettens, both of whom pioneered scientific art preservation. Moreover, he sailed aboard the Asama Maru from San Francisco, California to Japan to undertake an art research trip in 1931. He retired in 1944.\n\nForbes served as the President of the American Research Center in Egypt from 1948 to 1962.\n\nIn 1958 a Forbes Prize Fund had been set up at the Fogg Art Museum (now Harvard Art Museums), Harvard University, to which financial contributions were made in recognition of Edward W. Forbes's services to conservation. The fund was to be administered by the International Institute for Conservation to provide some kind of prize for outstanding work in the field of conservation. It was agreed in 1960 that the accumulated funds should be awarded in the form of a fee for a Forbes Lecture at the Rome Conference, and that Harold Plenderleith would be a suitable recipient. A Forbes Lecture has been given at each subsequent IIC Congress\n\nThe Forbes’ Pigment Collection contains over 3000 colorants assembled by Edward Waldo Forbes. Currently, the core collection of pigments is housed in the Straus Center for Conservation and Technical Studies, Harvard Art Museums, while Forbes’ private collection of pigments resides at the New York University Institute of Fine Arts Conservation Center.\n\nForbes served in the American Red Cross during World War I.\n\nForbes served on the Board of Trustees of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts from 1903 to 1963. He also served on the Board of Trustees of the Wadsworth Athenaeum in Hartford, Connecticut. He served on the administrative committee of the Dumbarton Oaks Collection and Research Library of Byzantine Studies in Washington, D.C. from 1941 to 1963. Additionally, he served on the Board of Trustees of Public Reservations of Massachusetts for six decades. He became honorary fellow of the International Institute for Conservation in 1958, where the annual Edward W. Forbes Prize was named in his honor.\n\nForbes was a recipient of an honorary A.M. from Harvard in 1921, an honorary LL.D. from the University of Pittsburgh in 1927, and an honorary Doctorate of Arts from Harvard in 1942. He was the recipient of the knighthood of the Legion of Honor from the Republic of France in 1937.\n\nForbes married Margaret Laighton in 1907. They had five children, including John Murray Forbes, Mary Emerson Forbes, Elliott Forbes, Anne Forbes and Rosamond (Mrs. Carl Pickhardt). They resided at Gerry's Landing in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His wife predeceased him in 1966.\n\nForbes was an amateur painter and sailor.\n\nForbes died on March 11, 1969 at the McLean Hospital in Belmont, a suburb of Boston in Massachusetts. He was ninety-five years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "1361712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1361712", "title": "Empire-building", "text": "Empire-building\n\nEmpire-building is the practice of attempting to obtain greater power and authority within an organization for the purposes of self-aggrandizement, particularly by having extra staff or subordinates.\nIn political science, empire-building refers to the tendency of countries and nations to acquire resources, land, and economic influence outside their borders in order to expand their size, power, and wealth. This expansion can be at the cost of those nations or people that have had resources taken away from them so that the conqueror can be enriched.\n\nIn business, empire-building is demonstrated when individuals or small groups attempt to gain control over key projects and initiatives to maximize job security and promotability. Project leadership hoards potential credit and prestige the project can produce. Because this approach prevents other people in the organization from contributing in a meaningful manner and alternative or competing projects to address the project's goals are destroyed regardless of their merit, the company suffers as a whole, projects fail, and the goals of the project are achieved partially, inadequately, or not at all. This sort of behavior is supposed to be stopped by upper management but is nevertheless very common.\n\nIn an organization, empire-building can also be demonstrated when an individual or small group eagerly and proactively suggests and pursues functions, activities or projects that are of questionable value to try to enhance legitimacy and future value. Pursuit of these activities is initially done at little or no marginal cost, but later the activities are used to justify increased resource allocation, being part of the organizational status quo, and thus the individual or group's overall command of resources, and influence, increases.\n"}
{"id": "58593302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58593302", "title": "Esther Muchemi", "text": "Esther Muchemi\n\nEsther Muchemi, accountant, businesswoman, entrepreneur and corporate executive in Kenya, who serves as the group chief executive officer of the Samchi Group of Companies, a diverse Kenyan conglomerate, whose companies span telecommunications, microfinance, hospitality, real estate, restaurants and ICT.\n\nEsther was born in Kenya and attended local schools for her primary and secondary education. She graduated from the University of Nairobi with a Bachelor of Commerce degree. She then trained as an accountant and practiced as an auditor for twenty years, before striking out as an entrepreneur, on her own. She is also a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), with the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya.\n\nFor a period of 16 years, dating back to 1984, Esther Muchemi was employed in the accounting industry as an auditor. In 2000, she quit her regular employment and opened a retail shop on \"Koinange Street\", in downtown Nairobi, Kenya's capital city, selling Safaricom sim-cards and airtime. Over the years she slowly expanded her empire into an investment group with nearly a dozen businesses.\n\nEsther organizes her businesses under the umbrella known as the \"Samchi Group of Companies\"'. The group includes: (a) Samchi Telecommunications Limited (b) Jumbo Communications Limited (c) Forward Airtime Limited and (d) Mergut Limited. These first four are all in the telecommunications sector.\n\nOther companies in the group are: (e) Samchi Credit Limited, a microfinance company (f) Samchi Heights Limited, a real estate development company (g) After 40 Hotel Limited, located along Biashara Street in Nairobi (h) El-Roi Plaza, a shopping arcade located along Tom Mboya Street in Nairobi (i) Heavenly Wings Limited, a restaurant within El-Roi Plaza and (j) a virtual office company called Space International Limited. In 2018, the Samchi Group employed a total of 560 individuals.\n\nIn 201, Esther Muchemi was the recipient of the \"2017 Global Inspirational Women Leadership Award\", awarded by the Centre for Economic and Leadership Development. She received the award at The 2017 South America–Africa–Middle East–Asia Women Summit, held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. In the same year, she was inducted into \"Amazon’s 100 Global Women Leaders Hall of Fame\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39036631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39036631", "title": "FD Iskandar", "text": "FD Iskandar\n\nDatuk Seri Fateh Iskandar bin Mohamed Mansor (born February 18, 1968), better known as FD Iskandar, is one of Malaysia's iconic leading influential figures. Datuk Seri FD Iskandar is the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Glomac Bhd. As of September 2015, he was appointed Chairman of Media Prima Berhad and is also one of Telekom Malaysia's key Directors.\n\nDatuk Seri FD Iskandar was born on February 18, 1968. He attended the Malay College Kuala Kangsar as a young teenager. He later then went on to graduate with a Bachelor of Commerce and LLB from Australia in 1989. Datuk Seri then furthered his studies and received an MBA from University of Queensland, Australia in 1991. He was a legal practitioner in Australia before coming home to Malaysia. He served as a Barrister at Law from Freehill, Holingdale & Page (Australia) from 1989 to 1991.\n\nDatuk Seri FD Iskandar first served as the Corporate Manager for Kumpulan Perangsang Selangor Berhad (KPS) upon coming home from Australia. He left KPS to join Glomac Berhad in 1992 as their General Manager for Business Development. Datuk Seri FD Iskandar is now the Group Executive Chairman, the Group Managing Director and the Chief Executive Officer of Glomac Berhad, a main property developing company listed on Bursa Malaysia since June 2000. His experience, influence and expertise has made him a very well-known and respected figure amongst his peers locally, and as well as in the international arena.\n\nToday, Datuk Seri FD Iskandar runs multiple public and private listed companies across several major industries. Apart from running Glomac Berhad on a daily basis, Datuk Seri FD Iskandar also operates the Board of Axis-Reits Managers Berhad, which is the first REITs company to be listed on Bursa Malaysia. He is also the Director of Telekom Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia’s broadband champion and leading communications group. In May 2017, he was appointed as the Chairman of VADS Berhad, a joint venture IT company between Telekom Malaysia and IBM, who service the IT and telecommunications industry. He was recently appointed to be a part of Dewan Bandaraya Kuala Lumpur's (DBKL) City Advisory Board Member by His Majesty the King (Yang di-Pertuan Agong). Datuk Seri FD Iskandar serves as the Chairman of the Special Taskforce to Facilitate Business Group (PEMUDAH) on legal terms. As a vital member to firms such as Media Prima Berhad and Telekom Malaysia, Datuk Seri FD Iskandar demonstrates his leadership role in order for these firms to develop a greater success.\n\nIn 2006, he was appointed as the Chairman of Axis-Reit Limited and later went on to become the first ever Malay President of the Real Estate & Housing Developers' Association Malaysia (REHDA) of Malaysian Property Incorporated (MPI). REHDA is a partnership between the Government and the Private Sector. The aim of the organisation is to encourage investment in property for foreigners based Malaysia. In addition to that, he was appointed as Vice Chairman of the Malaysia Australia Business Council (MABC).\n\nDatuk Seri FD Iskandar is frequently invited as a guest speaker in forums, seminars and conventions to offer his insights and views to share his wealth of experiences. He has given talks both locally and internationally about Malaysia over the years. He has been awarded numerous awards such as the \"Malaysian Business Award in Property\" by the Chamber of Commerce, the “Outstanding Entrepreneurship Award” by Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards and most recently, he received the “Global Leadership Awards – Masterclass Developer Of The Year” by The Leaders International.\n\nDatuk Seri FD Iskandar is the only son of Tan Sri FD Mansor and Puan Sri Zainun. Two Malaysian figures adored in the public eye. His wife, Datin Seri Hafizah Zakaria is a passionate supporter of charity projects which usually involves children in need and disaster reliefs. She is known for her bubbly and motherly personality, especially when she is surrounded by children. Datin Seri Hafizah collaborates regularly with UNICEF and other local charities to help children in need.\n\nWhen she is not involved in charitable causes, Datin Seri Hafizah devotes her time and energy in nurturing her children’s growth and development. She is always seen in stylish outfits when spotted at events with her husband. Tatler Magazine claims that she is the backbone to her husband's busy lifestyle.\n\nTogether, the couple have 6 children. Their eldest son, FD Idzham is always seen in the public eye as following his father's footsteps. FD Idzham who is currently finishing his studies abroad, is a young entrepreneur and a rugby union player for Saracens F.C. based in London, England. The young gentleman enjoys playing musical instruments and working with children in need during his spare time.\n"}
{"id": "11616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11616", "title": "Franchising", "text": "Franchising\n\nFranchising is based on a marketing concept which can be adopted by an organization as a strategy for business expansion. Where implemented, a franchiser licenses its know-how, procedures, intellectual property, use of its business model, brand, and rights to sell its branded products and services to a franchisee. In return the franchisee pays certain fees and agrees to comply with certain obligations, typically set out in a Franchise Agreement.\n\nThe word \"franchise\" is of Anglo-French derivation—from \"franc\", meaning free—and is used both as a noun and as a (transitive) verb.\nFor the franchiser, use of a franchise system is an alternative business growth strategy, compared to expansion through corporate owned outlets or \"chain stores\". Adopting a franchise system business growth strategy for the sale and distribution of goods and services minimizes the franchiser's capital investment and liability risk.\n\nAs with any business venture, franchising is not immune to risk. But if undertaken in the right way, franchising can be a vehicle of success for both the franchisor and franchisee.\n\nThirty-three countries have laws that explicitly regulate franchising, with the majority of all other countries having laws which have a direct or indirect effect on franchising.\nFranchising is also used as a foreign market entry mode.\n\nThe boom in franchising did not take place until after World War II. Nevertheless, the rudiments of modern franchising date back to the Middle Ages when landowners made franchise-like agreements with tax collectors, who retained a percentage of the money they collected and turned the rest over. The practice ended around 1562 but spread to other endeavors. For example, in 17th century England franchisees were granted the right to sponsor markets and fairs or operate ferries. There was little growth in franchising, though, until the mid-19th century, when it appeared in the United States for the first time.\n\nOne of the first successful American franchising operations was started by an enterprising druggist named John S. Pemberton. In 1886, he concocted a beverage comprising sugar, molasses, spices, and cocaine. Pemberton licensed selected people to bottle and sell the drink, which was an early version of what is now known as Coca-Cola. His was one of the earliest—and most successful—franchising operations in the United States.\n\nThe Singer Company implemented a franchising plan in the 1850s to distribute its sewing machines. The operation failed, though, because the company did not earn much money even though the machines sold well. The dealers, who had exclusive rights to their territories, absorbed most of the profits because of deep discounts. Some failed to push Singer products, so competitors were able to outsell the company. Under the existing contract, Singer could neither withdraw rights granted to franchisees nor send in its own salaried representatives. So, the company started repurchasing the rights it had sold. The experiment proved to be a failure. That may have been one of the first times a franchisor failed, but it was by no means the last. (Even Colonel Sanders did not initially succeed in his Kentucky Fried Chicken franchising efforts.) Still, the Singer venture did not put an end to franchising.\n\nOther companies tried franchising in one form or another after the Singer experience. For example, several decades later, General Motors Corporation established a somewhat successful franchising operation in order to raise capital. Perhaps the father of modern franchising, though, is Louis K. Liggett. In 1902, Liggett invited a group of druggists to join a \"drug cooperative.\" As he explained to them, they could increase profits by paying less for their purchases, especially if they set up their own manufacturing company. His idea was to market private label products. About 40 druggists pooled $4,000 of their own money and adopted the name \"Rexall\". Sales soared, and Rexall became a franchisor. The chain's success set a pattern for other franchisors to follow.\n\nAlthough many business owners did affiliate with cooperative ventures of one type or another, there was little growth in franchising until the early 20th century, and what franchising there was did not take the same form as it does today. As the United States shifted from an agricultural to an industrial economy, manufacturers licensed individuals to sell automobiles, trucks, gasoline, beverages, and a variety of other products. The franchisees did little more than sell the products, though. The sharing of responsibility associated with contemporary franchising arrangement did not exist to any great extent. Consequently, franchising was not a growth industry in the United States.\n\nIt was not until the 1960s and 1970s that people began to take a close look at the attractiveness of franchising. The concept intrigued people with entrepreneurial spirit. However, there were serious pitfalls for investors, which almost ended the practice before it became truly popular.\n\nThe following U.S. listing tabulates the early 2010 ranking of major franchises along with the number of sub-franchisees (or partners) from data available for 2004. The United States is a leader in franchising, a position it has held since the 1930s when it used the approach for fast-food restaurants, food inns and, slightly later, motels at the time of the Great Depression. As of 2005, there were 909,253 established franchised businesses, generating $880.9 billion of output and accounting for 8.1 percent of all private, non-farm jobs. This amounts to 11 million jobs, and 4.4 percent of all private sector output.\n\nMid-sized franchises like restaurants, gasoline stations and trucking stations involve substantial investment and require all the attention of a businessperson.\n\nThere are also large franchises like hotels, spas and hospitals, which are discussed further under technological alliances.\n\nThree important payments are made to a franchisor: (a) a royalty for the trademark, (b) reimbursement for the training and advisory services given to the franchisee, and (c) a percentage of the individual business unit's sales. These three fees may be combined in a single 'management' fee. A fee for \"disclosure\" is separate and is always a \"front-end fee\".\n\nA franchise usually lasts for a fixed time period (broken down into shorter periods, which each require renewal), and serves a specific territory or geographical area surrounding its location. One franchisee may manage several such locations. Agreements typically last from five to thirty years, with premature cancellations or terminations of most contracts bearing serious consequences for franchisees. A franchise is merely a temporary business investment involving renting or leasing an opportunity, not the purchase of a business for the purpose of ownership. It is classified as a wasting asset due to the finite term of the license.\n\nFranchise fees are on average 6.7% with an additional average marketing fee of 2% However, not all franchise opportunities are the same and many franchise organizations are pioneering new models that challenge antiquated structures and redefine success for the organization as well as the franchisee.\n\nA franchise can be exclusive, non-exclusive or \"sole and exclusive\".\n\nAlthough franchisor revenues and profit may be listed in a franchise disclosure document (FDD), no laws require an estimate of franchisee profitability, which depends on how intensively the franchisee \"works\" the franchise. Therefore, franchisor fees are typically based on \"gross revenue from sales\" and not on profits realized. See remuneration.\n\nVarious tangibles and intangibles such as national or international advertising, training and other support services are commonly made available by the franchisor.\n\nFranchise brokers help franchisors find appropriate franchisees. There are also main 'master franchisors' who obtain the rights to sub-franchise in a territory.\n\nAccording to the International Franchise Association approximately 44% of all businesses in the United States are franchisee-worked.\n\nFranchising is one of the few means available to access venture capital without the need to give up control of the operation of the chain and build a distribution system for servicing it. After the brand and formula are carefully designed and properly executed, franchisors are able to sell franchises and expand rapidly across countries and continents using the capital and resources of their franchisees while reducing their own risk.\n\nThere is also risk for the people buying the franchises. However, failure rates are much lower for franchise businesses than independent business startups.\n\nFranchisor rules imposed by the franchising authority are becoming increasingly strict. Some franchisors are using minor rule violations to terminate contracts and seize the franchise without any reimbursement.\n\nFranchising brings with it several advantages and disadvantages for firms looking to expand into new areas and foreign markets. The primary advantage is that the firm does not have to bear the development cost and risks of opening a foreign market on its own, as the Franchisee is typically responsible for those costs and risks, putting the onus on the Franchisee to build a profitable operation as quickly as possible. Through franchising a firm has the potential of building a global presence quickly and also at a low cost and risk.\n\nA primary disadvantage to franchising is quality control, as the franchisor wants the firm's brand name to convey a message to consumers about the quality and consistency of the firm's product. They want the consumer to experience the same quality regardless of location or franchise status. This can prove to be an issue with franchising, as a customer who had a bad experience at one franchise may assume that they will have the same experience at other locations with other services. Distance can make it difficult for firms to detect whether or not the franchises are of poor quality. One way around this disadvantage is to set up extra subsidiaries in each country or state in which the firm expands. This creates a smaller number of franchisees to oversee, which will reduce the quality control challenges.\n\nEach party to a franchise has several interests to protect. The franchisor is involved in securing protection for the trademark, controlling the business concept and securing know-how. The franchisee is obligated to carry out the services for which the trademark has been made prominent or famous. There is a great deal of standardization required. The place of service has to bear the franchisor's signs, logos and trademark in a prominent place. The uniforms worn by the staff of the franchisee have to be of a particular design and color. The service has to be in accordance with the pattern followed by the franchisor in the successful franchise operations. Thus, franchisees are not in full control of the business, as they would be in retailing.\n\nA service can be successful if equipment and supplies are purchased at a fair price from the franchisor or sources recommended by the franchisor. A coffee brew, for example, can be readily identified by the trademark if its raw materials come from a particular supplier. If the franchisor requires purchase from her stores, it may come under anti-trust legislation or equivalent laws of other countries. So too the purchase things like uniforms of personnel and signs, as well as the franchise sites, if they are owned or controlled by the franchisor.\n\nThe franchisee must carefully negotiate the license and must develop a marketing or business plan with the franchisor. The fees must be fully disclosed and there should not be any hidden fees. The start-up costs and working capital must be known before the license is granted. There must be assurance that additional licensees will not crowd the \"territory\" if the franchise is worked according to plan. The franchisee must be seen as an independent merchant. It must be protected by the franchisor from any trademark infringement by third parties. A franchise attorney is required to assist the franchisee during negotiations.\n\nOften the training period – the costs of which are in great part covered by the initial fee – is too short in cases where it is necessary to operate complicated equipment, and the franchisee has to learn on their own from instruction manuals. The training period must be adequate, but in low-cost franchises it may be considered expensive. Many franchisors have set up corporate universities to train staff online. This is in addition to providing literature, sales documents and email access.\n\nAlso, franchise agreements carry no guarantees or warranties and the franchisee has little or no recourse to legal intervention in the event of a dispute. Franchise contracts tend to be unilateral and favor of the franchisor, who is generally protected from lawsuits from their franchisees because of the non-negotiable contracts that franchisees are required to acknowledge, in effect, that they are buying the franchise knowing that there is risk, and that they have not been promised success or profits by the franchisor. Contracts are renewable at the sole option of the franchisor. Most franchisors require franchisees to sign agreements that mandate where and under what law any dispute would be litigated.\n\nIn 2016 there was an estimated 1,120 franchise brands operating in Australia and an estimated 79,000 units operating in business format franchises, with a total brand turnover of approximately $146 billion and a sales revenue of approximately $66.5 billion. In 2016 the majority of franchise brands were retailers with the largest segment being non-food retailing, accounting for 26 percent of brands, a further 19 percent of brands were involved in food retailing, 15 percent of franchisors operated in administration and support services, 10 percent in other services, 7 percent in education and training and 7 percent in rental, hire and real estate services. \n\nFranchising in Australia commenced in a significant way in the early 1970s under the influence of the franchised US fast food systems such as KFC, Pizza Hut, and McDonald's. It was however underway prior to this and a decade earlier in 1960 Leslie Joseph Hooker, considered a pioneer of franchising, created Australia’s first national real estate agency network of Hooker real estate agencies.\n\nIn Australia, franchising is regulated by the Franchising Code of Conduct, a mandatory code of conduct concluded under the Trade Practices Act 1974.\nThe ACCC regulates the Franchising Code of Conduct, which is a mandatory industry code that applies to the parties to a franchise agreement.\nThis code requires franchisors to produce a disclosure document which must be given to a prospective franchisee at least 14 days before the franchise agreement is entered into.\n\nThe code also regulates the content of franchise agreements, for example in relation to marketing funds, a cooling-off period, termination, and the resolution of disputes by mediation.\n\nOn 1 January 2015, the old Franchising Code was repealed and replaced with a new Franchising Code of Conduct. The new Code applies to conduct on or after 1 January 2015.\n\nThe new Code:\n\nThese are significant changes and it is important that franchisors, franchisees and potential franchises understand their rights and responsibilities under the Code.\n\nFor further information about the changes to the Code, please see the updated Franchisor Compliance Manual and the Franchisee Manual.\n\nThe Code explanatory materials are available from the ComLaw website (link is external).\n\nNew Zealand is served by around 423 franchise systems operating 450 brands, giving it the highest proportion of franchises per capita in the world. Despite (or because of) the 2008-09 recession, the total number of franchised units increased by 5.3% from 2009 to 2010. There is no separate law covering franchises, so they are covered by normal commercial law. This functions very well in New Zealand and includes law as it applies to contracts, restrictive trade practices, intellectual property, and the law of misleading or deceptive conduct.\n\nThe Franchise Association of New Zealand introduced a self-regulatory code of practice for its members in 1996. This contains many provisions similar to those of the Australian Franchising Code of Practice legislation, although only around a third of all franchises are members of the association and therefore bound by the code.\n\nA case of fraud in 2007 perpetrated by a former master franchisee of the country's largest franchise system led to a review of the need for franchise law by the Ministry of Economic Development. The New Zealand Government decided there was no case for franchise-specific legislation at that time. This decision was criticised by the opposition, which had initiated the review when in power, and the review process was questioned by a leading academic. The Franchise Association originally supported the positive regulation of the franchise sector but its eventual submission to the review was in favour of the status quo – self-regulation.\n\nBy the end of 2012, there were about 2,031 franchise brands operating in Brazil, with approximately 93,000 locations, making it one of the largest countries in the world in terms of number of units. Around 11 percent of this total were foreign-based franchisors.\n\nThe Brazilian Franchise Law (Law No. 8955 of December 15, 1994) defines the franchise as a system in which the franchisor licenses the franchisee, for a payment, the right to use a trademark or patent along with the right to distribute products or services on an exclusive or semi-exclusive basis.\nThe provision of a \"Franchise Offer Circular\", or disclosure document, is mandatory before execution of agreement and is valid for all of the Brazilian territory. Failure to disclose voids the agreement, which leads to refunds and serious payments for damages. The Franchise Law does not distinguish between Brazilian and foreign franchisors. The National Institute of Industrial Property (INPI) is the registering authority. Indispensable documents are a Statement of Delivery (of disclosure documentation) and a Certification of Recording (INPI). The latter is necessary for payments. All sums may not be convertible into foreign currency. Certification may also mean compliance with Brazil's antitrust legislation.\n\nParties to international franchising may decide to adopt the English language for the document, as long as the Brazilian party knows English fluently and expressly acknowledges that fact, to avoid translation. The registration accomplishes three things:\n\nIn Canada, recent legislation mandate better disclosure and fair treatment of franchisees. The regulations also ensure their right to form associations and launch collective action, even if they signed contracts prohibiting such moves. Franchising in Canada involves 1,300 brands, 80,000 franchise units accounting for about 20% of all consumer spending.\n\nChina has the most franchises in the world but the scale of their operations is relatively small. Each system in China has an average of 43 outlets, compared to more than 540 in the United States. Together, there are 2600 brands in some 200,000 retail markets. KFC was the most significant foreign entry in 1987 and is widespread Many franchises are in fact joint-ventures, as at their forming the franchise law was not explicit. For example, McDonald's is a joint venture. Pizza Hut, TGIF, Wal-mart, Starbucks followed a little later. But total franchising is only 3% of retail trade, which seeks foreign franchise growth.\n\nThe year 2005 saw the birth of an updated franchise law, \"Measures for the Administration of Commercial Franchise\". Previous legislation (1997) made no specific inclusion of foreign investors. Today the franchise law is much clearer by virtue of the 2007 law, a revision of the 2005 law.\n\nThe laws are applicable if there are transactions involving a trademark combined with payments with many obligations on the franchisor. The law comprises 42 articles and eight chapters.\n\nAmong the franchisor obligations are:\n\nThe franchisor must meet a list of requirements for registration, among which are:\n\nAmong other provisions:\n\nThe disclosure must take place 20 days in advance. It has to contain:\n\nOther elements of this legislation are:\n\nThe franchising of foreign goods and services to India is in its infancy. The first International Exhibition was only held in 2009. India is, however, one of the biggest franchising markets because of its large middle-class of 300 million who are not reticent about spending and because the population is entrepreneurial in character. In a highly diversified society, (see Demographics of India) McDonald's is a success story despite its fare's differing from that of the rest of the world.\n\nSo far, franchise agreements are covered under two standard commercial laws: the Contract Act 1872 and the Specific Relief Act 1963, which provide for both specific enforcement of covenants in a contract and remedies in the form of damages for breach of contract.\n\nIn Kazakhstan franchise turnover for 2013 is 2.5 billion US$ dollars per year. Kazakhstan is the leader in Central Asia in the franchising market. There is a special law on franchising which went into effect in 2002. There are more than 300 franchise systems and the number of franchised outlets approaches 2000. Kazakhstan franchising began with the emergence of a \"Coca-Cola\" factory, opened to sublicense a Turkish licensor of the same brand. The plant was built in 1994. Other brands that are also present in Kazakhstan through the franchise system include Pepsi, Hilton, Marriott, Intercontinental, and Pizza Hut.\n\nFranchising has grown rapidly in Europe in recent years, but the industry is largely unregulated. Unlike the United States, the European Union has not adopted a uniform franchise law. Only six of the 28 member states have a pre-contractual disclosure law. They are France (1989), Spain (1996), Romania (1997), Italy (2004) Sweden ( 2004) and Belgium (2005). Estonia and Lithuania have franchise laws that impose mandatory terms on franchise agreements. In Spain there is also mandatory registration on a public registry. Although they have no franchise specific laws, Germany and those countries with a legal system based upon that of Germany, such as Austria, Greece and Portugal, probably impose the greatest regulatory burden on franchisors due to their tendency to treat franchisees as quasi consumers in certain circumstances and the willingness of the judiciary to use the concept of good faith to make pro-franchisee decisions. In the UK, the recent Papa John case shows that there is also a need for pre-contractual disclosure and the Yam Seng case shows that there is a duty of good faith in franchise relationships.\n\nThe European Franchising Federation's Code of Ethics has been adopted by seventeen national franchise associations. However this has no legal force and enforcement by the national associations is neither uniform of rigorous. Commentators like Dr Mark Abell, in his book \"The Law and Regulation of Franchising in the EU\" ( Published in 2013 by Edward Elgar ) consider this lack of uniformity to be one of the greatest barriers to the franchising realising its potential in the EU.\n\nWhen adopting a European strategy it is important that a franchisor takes expert legal advice. Most often one of the principal tasks in Europe is to find retail space, which is not so significant a factor in the USA. This is where the franchise broker, or the master franchisor, plays an important role. Cultural factors are also relevant, as local populations tend to be heterogeneous.\n\nFrance is one of Europe's largest markets. Similar to the United States, it has a long history of franchising, dating back to the 1930s. Growth came in the 1970s. The market is considered difficult for outside franchisors because of cultural characteristics, yet McDonald's and Century 21 are found everywhere. There are some 30 U.S. firms involved in franchising in France.\n\nThere are no government agencies regulating franchises. The Loi Doubin Law of 1989 was the first European franchise disclosure law. Combined with Decree No. 91-337, it regulates disclosure, although the decree also applies to any person who provides to another person a corporate name, trademark or trade name or other business arrangements. The law applies to \"exclusive or quasi-exclusive territory\". The disclosure document must be delivered at least 20 days before the execution of the agreement or any payments are made.\n\nThe specific and important disclosures to be made are:\n\n\nInitially, there was some uncertainty whether any\nbreach of the provisions of the Doubin Law would\nenable the franchisee to walk away from the contract.\nHowever, the French supreme court (Cour de cassation)\neventually ruled that agreements should only be\nannulled where missing or incorrect information\naffected the decision of the franchisee to enter into the\nagreement. The burden of proof is on the franchisee.\nDispute settlement features are only incorporated in some European countries. By not being rigorous, franchising is encouraged.\n\nUnder Italian law franchise is defined as an arrangement between two financially independent parties where a franchisee is granted, in exchange for a consideration, the right to market goods and services under particular trademarks. In addition, articles dictate the form and content of the franchise agreement and define the documents that must be made available 30 days prior to execution. The franchisor must disclose:\n\nThere are no specific laws regulating franchising in Norway. However, the Norwegian Competition Act section 10 prohibits cooperation which may prevent, limit or diminish the competition. This may also apply to vertical cooperation such as franchising..\n\nIn Russia, under chapter 54 of the Civil Code (passed 1996), franchise agreements are invalid unless written and registered, and franchisors cannot set standards or limits on the prices of the franchisee's goods. Enforcement of laws and resolution of contractual disputes is a problem: Dunkin' Donuts chose to terminate its contract with Russian franchisees who were selling vodka and meat patties contrary to their contracts, rather than pursue legal remedies.\n\nThe legal definition of franchising in Spain is an activity in which an undertaking, the franchisor, grants to another party, the franchisee, for a specific market and in exchange for financial compensation (either direct, indirect or both), the right to exploit an owned system to commercialize products or services already exploited by the franchisor with enough success and experience.\n\nThe Spanish Retail Trading Act regulates franchising. The contents of the franchise must include, at least:\n\nIn Spain, the franchisor submits the disclosure information 20 days prior to signing the agreement or prior to any payment made by the franchisee to the franchisor. Franchisors are to disclose to the potential franchisee specific information in writing. This information has to be true and not misleading and include:\n\nFranchisors (with some exceptions) should be registered in the Franchisors' Register and provide the requested information. According to the regulation in force in 2010 this obligation has to be met within three months after the start of its activities in Spain.\n\nFranchising is a sui generis contract which bears the characteristics of several explicitly regulated contracts such as; agency, sales contract and so forth. The regulations concerning these kinds of contracts in Turkish Commercial Code and in Turkish Code of Obligations are applied to franchising. Franchising is described in doctrine and has several essential components such as; the independence of the franchisee from the franchisor, the use of know-how and the uniformity of product and services, standard use of the brand and logo, payment of a royalty fee, increasement of sales by the franchisee and continuity.\nFranchising may be for a determined or undetermined period of time. The undetermined one can only be annulled either by a notice before a reasonable amount of time or by a just cause. The franchising agreement with a determined time period ends within the end of the time period if not specified otherwise in the agreement. However, termination based on just cause is also foreseen for franchising agreement with a determined time period.\n\nIn the United Kingdom there are no franchise-specific laws; franchises are subject to the same laws that govern other businesses. There is some self-regulation through the British Franchise Association (BFA).\n\nThere are a number franchise businesses which are not members of the BFA and many which do not meet the BFA membership criteria. Part of the BFA's role in self-regulation is to work with franchisors through the application process and recommend changes which will lead to the franchise business meeting BFA standards. A number of businesses that refer to themselves as franchises do not conform to the BFA Code of Ethics are therefore excluded from membership.\n\nOn 22 May 2007, hearings were held in the UK Parliament concerning citizen-initiated petitions for special regulation of franchising by the government of the UK due to losses incurred by citizens who had invested in franchises. The Minister of Industry, Margaret Hodge, conducted hearings but saw no need for any government regulation of franchising with the advice that government regulation of franchising might lull the public into a false sense of security. Mr Mark Prisk MP suggested that the costs of such regulation to the franchisee and franchisor could be prohibitive and would in any case provide a system which mirrored the work already being completed by the BFA. The Minister of Industry indicated that if due diligence were performed by the investors and the banks, the current laws governing business contracts in the UK offered sufficient protection for the public and the banks. The debate also made reference to the self-regulatory function performed by the BFA recognizing that the association \"punched above its weight\".\n\nIsaac Singer, who made improvements to an existing model of a sewing machine in the 1850s, began one of the first franchising efforts in the United States, followed later by Coca-Cola, Western Union, etc. and by agreements between automobile manufacturers and dealers.\n\nModern franchising came to prominence with the rise of franchise-based food service establishments. In 1932, Howard Deering Johnson established the first modern restaurant franchise based on his successful Quincy, Massachusetts Howard Johnson's restaurant founded in the late 1920s. The idea was to let independent operators use the same name, food, supplies, logo and even building design in exchange for a fee. The growth in franchising accelerated in the 1930s when such chains as Howard Johnson's started to franchise motels. The 1950s saw a boom in franchise chains in conjunction with the development of the U.S. Interstate Highway System and the growing popularity of fast food.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Trade Commission has oversight of franchising, rather than the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The FTC administrates oversight via the FTC Franchise Rule.\n\nThe FTC requires that the franchisee be furnished with a Franchise Disclosure Document (FDD) by the franchisor at least fourteen days before money changes hands or a franchise agreement is signed. The final agreement is always a negotiated document setting forth fees and other terms. Whereas elements of the disclosure may be available from third parties, only that provided by the franchisor can be depended upon. The U.S. Franchise Disclosure Document (FDD) is lengthy (300–700 pp +) and detailed (see Uniform Franchise Offering Circular (UFOC) for elements of disclosure), and generally requires audited financial statements from the franchisor in a particular format, except in some circumstances, such as where a franchisor is new. It must include such data as the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the franchisees in the licensed territory (who may be contacted and consulted before negotiations), estimate of total franchise revenues and franchisor profitability.\n\nIndividual states may require the FDD to contain their own specific requirements, but the requirements in state disclosure documents must be in compliance with the federal rule that governs federal regulatory policy. There is no private right of action of action under the FTC rule for franchisor violation of the rule, but fifteen or more of the states have passed statutes that provide this right of action to franchisees when fraud can be proven under these special statutes. The majority of franchisors have inserted mandatory arbitration clauses into their agreements with their franchisees, some of which the U.S. Supreme Court has dealt with.\n\nThere is no federal registry of franchises or any federal filing requirements for information. States are the primary collectors of data on franchising companies and enforce laws and regulations regarding their presence and their spread in their jurisdictions.\n\nWhere the franchisor has many partners, the agreement may take the shape of a business format franchise – an agreement that is identical for all franchisees.\n\nIn recent years, the idea of franchising has been picked up by the social enterprise sector, which hopes to simplify and expedite the process of setting up new businesses. A number of business ideas, such as soap making, wholefood retailing, aquarium maintenance, and hotel operation have been identified as suitable for adoption by social firms employing disabled and disadvantaged people.\n\nThe most successful examples are probably the \"Kringwinkel\" second-hand shops employing 5,000 people in Flanders, franchised by KOMOSIE, the CAP Markets, a steadily growing chain of 100 neighbourhood supermarkets in Germany. and the Hotel Tritone in Trieste, which inspired the Le Mat social franchise, now active in Italy and Sweden.\n\nSocial franchising also refers to a technique used by governments and aid donors to provide essential clinical health services in the developing world.\n\nSocial Franchise Enterprises objective is to achieve development goals by creating self sustainable activities by providing services and goods in un-served areas. They use the Franchise Model characteristics to deliver Capacity Building, Access to Market and Access to Credit/Finance.\n\nThird-party logistics has become an increasingly more popular franchise opportunity due the quickly growing transportation industry and low cost franchising. In 2012, \"Inc. Magazine\" ranked three logistics and transportation companies in the top 100 fastest growing companies in the annual Inc. 5000 rankings.\n\nEvent franchising is the duplication of public events in other geographical areas, retaining the original brand (logo), mission, concept and format of the event. As in classic franchising, event franchising is built on precisely copying successful events. An example of event franchising is the World Economic Forum, also known as the Davos forum, which has regional event franchisees in China, Latin America, etc. Likewise, the alter-globalist World Social Forum has launched many national events. When The Music Stops is an example of an events franchise in the UK, in this case, running speed dating and singles events.\n\nThe franchising or duplication of another firm's successful home-based business model is referred to as a home-based franchise. Home-based franchises are becoming popular as they are considered to be an easy way to start a business as they may provide a low barrier for entry into entrepreneurship. It may cost little to start a home-based franchise, but experts say that \"the work is no less hard.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26672138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26672138", "title": "Franco Ambrosio", "text": "Franco Ambrosio\n\nFrancesco Vittorio 'Franco' Ambrosio (18 September 1932 – 15 April 2009) was a businessman from Italy who financed Formula One racing teams Arrows and Shadow in the late 1970s. He became a multi-millionaire through wheat trading, primarily for pasta production, and built up a large business empire. He was involved in financial scandals and served jail terms. He was murdered in a robbery at his home near Naples in 2009.\n\nFrancesco Vittorio Ambrosio was born on 18 September 1932 in San Gennarello, a neighbourhood close to Mount Vesuvius in the Ottaviano \"frazione\" of Naples.\n\nAt the age of 18 he joined a wheat milling business near Naples which he rose to lead within 10 years. He renamed the business Italgrani SpA in 1960. Its huge financial growth led to his nickname 'the king of grain' (Italian: \"il re del grano\"). Italgrani expanded rapidly in the 1980s into Africa, Australia, and the United States. Ambrosio created a holding company comprising up to 50 companies, importing and exporting various commodities. The businesses gradually unravelled in the 1990s as his involvements in several financial scandals were discovered. He declared the Italgrani company bankrupt in 1999.\n\nAmbrosio sponsored the Shadow Formula One team in 1977, backing the Italian driver Renzo Zorzi. Zorzi's lack of success led Ambrosio to have him replaced by the more promising Riccardo Patrese. Ambrosio joined the majority of the Shadow staff when they broke away to form the Arrows Formula One team for the 1978 season. The first Arrows car was named FA1, using Ambrosio's initials.\n\nFranco Ambrosio was arrested several times for fraud and financial irregularities.\n\nIn 1980 he was jailed in Lugano for complicity in a fraud scheme involving the Banco di Roma in Switzerland. Ambrosio made two unsuccessful escape attempts - in November 1981 by bribing a guard and hiding in a garbage bin, and in August 1982.\n\nHis sentence was for five years, but he was released in February 1983 after serving three years.\n\nIn October 1993 he was jailed for money laundering and receiving stolen goods in the Enimont corruption scandal, in which a large chemical company was found to have bribed politicians in return for tax relief.\n\nIn June 1994 he was arrested for attempted bribery, and fraud in declaring bankruptcy in claiming EU subsidies for non-existent grain shipments to Algeria.\n\nOn 10 January 2001, he was arrested for fraud and false accounting.\n\nAt the time of his death Ambrosio was due in court to appeal against a nine-year prison sentence for false accounting when declaring the bankruptcy of Italgrani.\n\nOn the morning of 15 April 2009 his eldest son Massimo discovered the bodies of Ambrosio and his wife Giovanna Sacco in their seaside villa in Posillipo, Naples. The cause of his death was injuries to the head from a blunt object. There were signs of a robbery: a broken window, possessions scattered and valuables missing. The next day three Romanian immigrants, including one who had worked as his gardener, were arrested and charged with the murder.\n"}
{"id": "57392546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57392546", "title": "Georg Kraus", "text": "Georg Kraus\n\nGeorg Kraus (born July 30, 1965) is a German management consultant and writer; , the founder of the Dr. Kraus & Partner consulting company.\n\nKraus received a bachelor's degree at Lycée Kléber at Strasbourg and continued his education at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, earning a Doctor of Science degree in 1995. He started his business career in 1987 working for Daimler AG as an internal strategy and project management consultant (his doctorate thesis was about employee job satisfaction in the automotive industry). The same year he founded the Dr. Kraus & Partner consulting company.\n\nKraus started his academic career in 1994, becoming a lecturer at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology where he taught a change management course. In 1995, together with Reinhold Westermann, he published a project management textbook named \"Projektmanagement mit System\" that has been reprinted 5 times. In 2004, together with Christel Becker-Kolle and Thomas Fischer, he co-authored a handbook on change management.\n\nKraus also taught at IAE Aix-en-Provence (since 2004), the Clausthal University of Technology (since 2005) and the St. Galler Business School (since 2007). In 2015 he was appointed honorary professor at the Faculty of Energy and Economics at Clausthal University of Technology. While working at IAE Aix-en-Provence he initiated the European Change Forum (held annually since 2012).\n\nKraus supports low-income entrepreneurs and students through the Kiva micro loans website and serves as a member of the board of trustees of Heinrich Pesch Foundation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31765149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31765149", "title": "Global Simplicity Index", "text": "Global Simplicity Index\n\nThe Global Simplicity Index 2011 is the first ever study to calculate the cost of complexity in the world's largest organisations. The research was conducted jointly by management consultancy, Simplicity, and Warwick Business School. The Global Simplicity Index has identified that the world's largest companies lose an average of 10.2% of their profits (EBITDA) as a result of unnecessary complexity. \n\nThe Global Simplicity Index has identified that complexity occurs in five key areas of an organisation: people, processes, organisational design, strategy, and products and services.\n\n"}
{"id": "8728677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8728677", "title": "Hanesbrands", "text": "Hanesbrands\n\nHanesbrands Inc. is an American clothing company based in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. It employs 65,300 people internationally. On September 6, 2006, the company was spun off by the Sara Lee Corporation.\n\nHanesbrands owns several clothing brands, including Hanes, Champion, Playtex, Bali, L'eggs, Just My Size, Hanes Hosiery, Barely There, Wonderbra, Duofold, Airé, Beefy-T, C9 by Champion, Cacharel, Celebrity, Daisyfresh, J. E. Morgan, One Hanes Places, Maidenform, Rinbros, Ritmo, Sheer Energy, Silk Reflections, Sol, Sol y Oro, Tagless, and Zorba.\n\nHanesbrands operates and owns around 250 L'eggs Hanes Bali Playtex Factory Outlets and Hanesbrands Stores across the US. They are a chain of outlet stores that offer discounts. Hanesbrands' flagship store is located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and opened in summer 2008. This store is the largest store and offers all of Hanesbrands brands. Hanesbrands has recently started opening Champion Outlet Stores in addition to their Hanesbrands Stores. Currently there are 20 Champion stores open. The original Hanes outlet store was housed in a room adjacent to their factory. It is a true outlet store, where people local to the area could come and buy factory direct, and save the markups associated with retailing. Today, Hanesbrands Inc operates 268 stores across the US under the Hanesbrands, Leggs Hanes Bali Playtex, Maidenform and Champion brands. Stores range in size from 2,500 to 17,000 square feet and have the largest assortment of intimates, including bras, panties, shapewear, comfort and leg wear under one roof in the US.\n\nHanesbrands has companies in various parts of Europe and Eastern Europe, including the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, France and Spain.\n\nSales revenue for 2010 was $4.33 billion and gross profit was $1.41 billion.\n\nHanesbrands has been recognized for work that it has done for the environment, including \"green\" buildings. They have also been recognized for the work they have done in communities, such as the support of schools in Honduras.\n\nIn 2011, WikiLeaks revealed that the corporation had previously lobbied the State Department to prevent the raise of Haiti's minimum-wage to $0.61 an hour from $0.31 an hour.\n\nOn July 24, 2013, Hanesbrands agreed to acquire Maidenform for $575 million.\n\nOn 15 July 2016 Hanes acquired the Australian-based clothing and underwear and clothing company Pacific Brands\n\nIn October 2017, Hanes announced a $60 million acquisition of Norcross, GA based Alternative Apparel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14202905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14202905", "title": "History of marketing", "text": "History of marketing\n\nThe study of the history of marketing, as a discipline, is meaningful because it helps to define the baselines upon which change can be recognised and understand how the discipline evolves in response to those changes. The practice of marketing has been known for millennia, but the term \"marketing\" used to describe commercial activities buying and selling a products or services came into popular use in the late nineteenth century. The study of the history of marketing as an academic field emerged in the early twentieth century.\n\nMarketers tend to distinguish between the history of marketing practice and the history of marketing thought:\n\nAlthough the history of marketing thought and the history of marketing practice are distinct fields of study, they intersect at different junctures. Marketing practitioners engage in innovative practices that capture the attention of marketing scholars who codify and disseminate such practices. At the same time, marketing academics often develop new research methods or theories that are subsequently adopted by practitioners. Thus developments in marketing theory inform marketing practice and vice versa. The history of marketing will remain incomplete if one disassociates academia from practitioners.\n\nThe publication, in 1960, of Robert Keith's article, \"The Marketing Revolution\", was a pioneering work in the study of the history of marketing practice. And, in 1976, the publication of Robert Bartel's book, \"The History of Marketing Thought,\" marked a turning-point in the understanding of how marketing theory evolved since it first emerged as a separate discipline around the turn of last century.\n\nAccording to etymologists, the term 'marketing' first appeared in dictionaries in the sixteenth century where it referred to the process of buying and selling at a market. The contemporary definition of 'marketing' as a process of moving goods from producer to consumer with an emphasis on sales and advertising first appeared in dictionaries in 1897. The term, marketing, is a derivation of the Latin word, \"mercatus\" meaning market-place or merchant. \n\nHistorians of marketing tend to fall into two distinct branches of marketing history - \"the history of marketing practice\" and \"the history of marketing thought.\" These branches are often deeply divided and have very different roots. The history of marketing practice is grounded in the management and marketing disciplines, while the history of marketing thought is grounded in economic and cultural history. This means that the two branches ask very different types of research questions and employ different research tools and frameworks.\n\nHistorians of marketing have undertaken considerable investigation into the emergence of marketing practice, yet there is little agreement about when marketing first began. Some researchers argue that marketing practices can be found in antiquity while others suggest that marketing, in its modern form, emerged in conjunction with the rise of consumer culture in seventeenth and eighteenth century Europe while yet other researchers suggest that modern marketing was only fully realised in the decades following the industrial revolution in Britain from where it subsequently spread to Europe and North America. Hollander and others have suggested that the different dates for the emergence of marketing can be explained by problems surrounding the way that marketing has been defined - whether reference to 'modern marketing' as a planned, programmed repertoire of professional practice including activities such as segmentation, product differentiation, positioning and marketing communications versus 'marketing' as a simple form distribution and exchange.\n\nA number of studies have found evidence of advertising, branding, packaging and labelling in antiquity. Umbricius Scauras, for example, was a manufacturer of fish sauce (also known as garum) in Pompeii, circa 35 C.E. Mosaic patterns in the atrium of his house were decorated with images of amphora bearing his personal brand and quality claims. The mosaic comprises four different amphora, one at each corner of the atrium, and bearing labels as follows:\nThe reputation of Scauras' fish sauce was known to be of very high quality across the Mediterranean and its reputation travelled as far away as modern France. Curtis has described this mosaic as a \"an advertisement... and a rare, unequivocal example of a motif inspired by a patron, rather than by the artist.\" In Pompeii and nearby Herculaneum, archaeological evidence also points to evidence of branding and labelling in relatively common use. Wine jars, for example, were stamped with names, such as \"Lassius\" and \"L. Eumachius;\" probably references to the name of the producer. Carbonised loaves of bread, found at Herculaneum, indicate that some bakers stamped their bread with the producer's name.\n\nDavid Wengrow has argued that branding became necessary following the urban revolution in ancient Mesopotamia in the 4th century BCE, when large-scale economies started mass-producing commodities such as alcoholic drinks, cosmetics and textiles. These ancient societies imposed strict forms of quality control over commodities, and also needed to convey value to the consumer through branding. Producers began by attaching simple stone seals to products which over time were transformed into clay seals bearing impressed images, often associated with the producer's personal identity thus giving the product a personality.\n\nDiana Twede has argued that the \"consumer packaging functions of protection, utility and communication have been necessary whenever packages were the object of transactions\" (p. 107). She has shown that amphoras used in Mediterranean trade between 1500 and 500 BCE exhibited a wide variety of shapes and markings, which provided information for transactions. Systematic use of stamped labels dates from around the fourth century BCE. In a largely pre-literate society, the shape of the amphora and its pictorial markings conveyed information about the contents, region of origin and even the identity of the producer which were understood to convey information about product quality. Not all historians agree that these markings can be compared with modern brands or labels. Moore and Reid, for example, have argued that the distinctive shapes and markings in ancient containers should be termed \"proto-brands\" rather than modern brands.\n\nIn England and Europe during the Middle Ages, market towns sprang up. Some analysts have suggested that the term, 'marketing,' may have first been used in the context of market towns where the term 'marketing' may have been used by producers to describe the process of carting and selling their produce and wares in market towns. Blintiff has investigated the early Medieval networks of market towns and suggests that by the 12th century there was an upsurge in the number of market towns and the emergence of merchant circuits as traders bulked up surpluses from smaller regional, different day markets and resold them at the larger centralised market towns.\n\nBraudel and Reynold have made a systematic study of these European market towns between the thirteenth and fifteenth century. Their investigation shows that in regional districts markets were held once or twice a week, while daily markets were more common in the larger cities and towns. Over time, permanent shops began to open daily and gradually supplanted the periodic markets. Peddlers filled in the gaps in distribution by travelling door-to-door in order to sell produce and wares. The physical market was characterised by transactional exchange, bartering systems were commonplace and the economy was characterised by local trading. Braudel reports that, in 1600, goods travelled relatively short distances - grain 5–10 miles; cattle 40–70 miles; wool and wollen cloth 20–40 miles. However, following the European age of discovery, goods were imported from afar - calico cloth from India, porcelain, silk and tea from China, spices from India and South-East Asia and tobacco, sugar, rum and coffee from the New World.\n\nAlthough the rise of consumer culture and marketing in Britain and Europe have been studied extensively, less is known about developments elsewhere. Nevertheless, recent research suggests that China exhibited a rich history of early marketing practices; including branding, packaging, advertising and retail signage. From as early as 200 BCE, Chinese packaging and branding was used to signal family, place names and product quality, and the use of government imposed product branding was used between 600 and 900 AD. Eckhart and Bengtsson have argued that during the Song Dynasty (960–1127), Chinese society developed a consumerist culture, where a high level of consumption was attainable for a wide variety of ordinary consumers rather than just the elite (p. 212). The rise of a consumer culture led to the commercial investment in carefully managed company image, retail signage, symbolic brands, trademark protection and the brand concepts of baoji, hao, lei, gongpin, piazi and pinpai, which roughly equate with Western concepts of family status, quality grading, and upholding traditional Chinese values (p. 219). Eckhardt and Bengtsson's analysis suggests that brands emerged in China as a result of the social needs and tensions implicit in consumer culture, in which brands provide social status and stratification. Thus, the evolution of brands in China stands in sharp contrast to the West where manufacturers pushed brands onto the market in order to differentiate, increase market share and ultimately profits (pp 218–219).\n\nScholars have identified specific instances of marketing practices in England and Europe in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. As trade between countries or regions grew, companies required information on which to base business decisions. Individuals and companies carried out formal and informal research on trade conditions. As early as 1380, Johann Fugger travelled from Augsburg to Graben in order to gather information on the international textile industry. He exchanged detailed letters on trade conditions in relevant areas. In the early 1700s British industrial houses were demanding information, that could be used for business decisions. In the early 18th-century, Daniel Defoe, a London merchant, published information on trade and economic resources of England and Scotland. Defoe was a prolific publisher and among his many publications are titles devoted to trade including; \"Trade of Britain Stated,\" 1707; \"Trade of Scotland with France,\" 1713 and \"The Trade to India Critically and Calmly Considered,\" 1720; all books that were highly popular with merchants and business houses of the period. While such activities might now be recognised as marketing research, at that time they were known as 'commercial research' or 'commercial intelligence' and not seen as part of the repertoire of activities that make up contemporary marketing practice.\n\nOther scholars have found evidence of advertising and promotion in eighteenth century France and Italy as well as Britain. Far from being primitive efforts, early advertising showed a high level of sophistication in its execution and abilility to reach mass audiences. In a major review of consumer society, McKendrick, Brewer and Plumb found extensive evidence of eighteenth century English entrepreneurs using 'modern' marketing techniques, including product differentiation, sales promotion and loss leader pricing. \n\nEnglish industrialists, Josiah Wedgewood and Matthew Boulton, are often portrayed as pioneers of modern mass marketing methods. Wedgewood was known to have used marketing techniques such as direct mail, travelling salesmen and catalogues in the eighteenth century. Josiah Wedgewood's marketing was highly sophisticated and recognisably 'modern' in that he planned production with the sale in mind. He carried out serious investigations into the fixed and variable costs of production and recognised that increased production would lead to lower unit costs. He also inferred that selling at lower prices would lead to higher demand and recognised the value of achieving scale economies in production. By cutting costs and lowering prices, Wedgewood was able to generate higher overall profits. Similarly, one of Wedgewood's contemporaries, Matthew Boulton, pioneered early mass production techniques and product differentiation at his Soho Manufactory in the 1760s. He also practiced planned obsolescence and understood the importance of 'celebrity marketing' - that is supplying the nobility, often at prices below cost and of obtaining royal patronage, for the sake of the publicity and cudos generated.\n\nFullerton argues that the practice of market segmentation emerged well before marketers used the notion formally. Certain strands of evidence suggest that simple examples of market segmentation were evident prior to the 1880s. The business historian, Richard S. Tedlow, argues that any attempt to segment markets prior to 1880 was highly fragmented since the economy was characterised by small, regional suppliers who mostly sold goods on a local or regional basis. When retail shops began to appear from the 15th century, retailers needed to separate the \"riff raff\" from wealthier customers. Outside the major metropolitan cities, few stores could afford to serve one type of clientele exclusively. However, gradually retail shops introduced innovations that would allow them to separate wealthier customers from the lower classes and peasants. One technique was to have a window opening out onto the street from which customers could be served. This allowed the sale of goods to the common people, without encouraging them to come inside. Another solution, that came into vogue from the late sixteenth century was to invite favoured customers into a back-room of the store, where goods were permanently on display. Yet another technique that emerged around the same time was to hold a showcase of goods in the shopkeeper's private home for the benefit of wealthier clients. Samuel Pepys, for example, writing in 1660, describes being invited to the home of a retailer to view a wooden jack. The eighteenth century English entrepreneurs, Josiah Wedgewood and Matthew Boulton, both staged expansive showcases of their wares in their private residences or in rented halls. Evidence of early marketing segmentation has also been noted across Europe. A study of the German book trade found examples of both product differentiation and market segmentation in the 1820s.\n\nUntil the nineteenth century, Western economies were characterised by small regional suppliers who sold goods on a local or regional basis. However, as transportation systems improved from the mid nineteenth century, the economy became more unified allowing companies to distribute standardised, branded goods a national level. This gave rise to a much broader mass marketing mindset. Manufacturers tended to insist on strict standardisation in order to achieve scale economies with a view to keeping production costs down and also to achieving market penetration in the early stages of a product's life cycle. The Model T Ford was an example of a product being manufactured at a price that was affordable for the burgeoning middle classes.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, as market size increased, it became more commonplace for manufacturers to produce a variety of models pitched at different quality points designed to meet the needs of various demographic and lifestyle market segments, giving rise to the widespread practice of market segmentation and product differentation. Between 1902 -1910 George B Waldron, working at Mahin's advertising agency, used tax registers, city directories and census data to show advertisers the proportion of educated versus illiterate consumers and the earning capacity of different occupations in what is believed to be the first example of demographic segmentation of a population. Within little more than a decade, Paul Cherington had developed the 'ABCD' household typology - the first socio-demographic segmentation tool. By the 1930s, market researchers such as Ernest Dichter were carrying out qualitative research into brand purchasers realised that demographic factors alone were unsufficient to explain different marketing behaviour of various user groups. This insight led to the exploration of other factors such as lifestyles, values, attitudes and beliefs in market segmentation and advertising.\n\nWhen Wendell R. Smith published his now classic article, \"Product Differentiation and Market Segmentation as Alternative Marketing Strategies\" in 1956, he noted that he was simply documenting marketing practices that had been observed for some time and which he described as a \"natural force\". Other theorists agree that Smith was simply codifying implicit knowledge that had been used in marketing and brand management from the early twentieth century.\n\nAs industry grew, the demand for skilled business professionals also grew. To meet this demand, universities began offering courses in commerce, economics and marketing. Marketing, as a discipline, was first taught in universities in the very early twentieth century. However, researchers only became interested in investigating the history of marketing in the mid twentieth century. From the outset, researchers tended to identify two strands of historical research; the history of marketing practice and the history of marketing thought which was fundamentally concerned with the rise of marketing education and dissecting the way that marketing was taught and studied. Early historical studies were primarily descriptive.\n\nThe practice of marketing may have been carried out for millennia, but the modern concept of marketing as a professional practice appears to have emerged the post industrial corporate world. In addition to the studies of specific cultures or time periods, discussed in the preceding section, some historians of marketing have sought to write more general histories of marketing's evolution in the modern era. A key question that has preoccupied researchers is whether it is possible to identify specific orientations or mindsets that inform key periods in marketing's evolution. Marketers disagree about the way that marketing practice has evolved over time.\n\nIn the marketing literature, continuing debate surrounds the orientations or philosophies that might have informed marketing practice at different periods of time. An orientation may be defined as \"the type of activity or subject that an organisation seems most interested in and gives most attention to\". In relation to marketing orientations, the term has been defined as a \"philosophy of business management\". or \"a corporate state of mind\" or as an \"organisational culture\".\n\nThe general lack of agreement amongst scholars as to what constitutes clearly identifiable periods and the orientation that characterised each distinct period has spawned a lengthy list of orientations. Space prevents an exhaustive description of all periods or eras. However, the salient features of the most commonly cited periods appear in the following section.\n\nA production orientation is often proposed as the first of the so-called orientations that dominated business thought. Keith dated the production era from the 1860s to the 1930s, but other theorists argue that evidence of the production orientation can still be found in some companies or industries. Specifically Kotler and Armstrong note that the production philosophy is \"one of the oldest philosophies that guides sellers\" and \"is still useful in some situations\".\n\nThe production orientation is characterised by:\n\n\nThe selling orientation is thought to have begun during the Great Depression and continued well into the 1950s although examples of this orientation can still be found today. Kotler et al. note that the selling concept \"is typically practised with unsought goods\".\n\nThe selling orientation is characterised by:\n\nThe marketing orientation or the marketing concept emerged in the 1950s.\n\nCharacteristics of the marketing orientation:\n\n\nPhillip Kotler is often credited with first proposing the societal marketing orientation or concept in an article published in the \"Harvard Business Review\" in 1972. However, some marketing historians, notably Wilkie and Moore, have argued that a societal perspective was evident in marketing theory and in marketing texts, since the discipline's inception in the early 1900s or that societal marketing is merely an extension of the marketing concept.\n\nThe societal marketing concept adopts the position that marketers have a greater social responsibility than simply satisfying customers and providing them with superior value. Instead, marketing activities should strive to benefit society's overall well-being. Marketing organisations that have embraced the societal marketing concept typically identify key stakeholder groups including: employees, customers, local communities, the wider public and government and consider the impact of their activities on all stakeholders. They ensure that marketing activities do not damage the environment and are not hazardous to broader society. Societal marketing developed into sustainable marketing.\n\nCharacteristics of societal marketing:\n\n\nStarting in the 1990s, a new stage of marketing emerged called relationship marketing. The focus of relationship marketing is on a long-term relationship that benefits both the company and the customer. The relationship is based on trust and commitment, and both companies tend to shift their operating activities to be able to work more efficiently together. One of the most prominent reasons for relationship marketing comes from Kotler's idea that it costs about five times more to obtain a new customer than to maintain the relationship with an existing customer. A relationship marketing approach seeks to maximise the value of all the potential exchanges an organisation could have into the future.\n\nThe characteristics of relationship marketing include:\n\n\nEmpirical support for relationship marketing as a distinct paradigm is very weak. One study suggests that relationship marketing is really a sub-component of large scale movements of the value-added process rather than a separate era or framework. Some theorists suggest that marketing is moving from a relationship marketing paradigm and towards a social media paradigm where marketers have access to a more controlled environment and are able to customise offers and communications messages.\n\nTo investigate the history of marketing practice, scholars often turn to a method known as periodisation. Periodisation refers to the process or study of categorizing the past into discrete, quantified, named units for the purpose of analysis or study. Scholars do not agree on the periods that characterise the history of marketing practice. In a major review of the periodisation approach, Hollander et al. have identified fourteen different \"stage theories\" or \"short periodisations\" as well as a total of nineteen \"long periodisations\" that have been carried out since 1957. Of these, the contributions of Robert Keith (1960) and Ronald Fullerton (1988) are the most frequently cited.\n\nIn 1960, Robert Keith, the then Vice President of Pillsbury, set the stage for decades of controversy when he published an article entitled the \"Marketing Revolution\" in which he set out the way that the Pillsbury Company had shifted from a focus on production in the 1860s through to a consumer focus in the 1950s. He traced three distinct eras in Pillsbury's evolution:\n\n\nIn addition, Keith hypothesised that a \"marketing control era\" was about to emerge. Although Keith's article explicitly documented Pillsbury's evolution, the article appears to suggest that the stages observed at Pillsbury constitute a standard or normal evolutionary path (production→sales→marketing) for most large organisations.\n\nKeith's notion of distinct eras in the evolution of marketing practice has been widely criticised and his periodisation described as \"hopelessly flawed\". Specific criticisms of Keith's tripartite periodisation include that:\n\n\nThe article, which is entirely based on Keith's personal recollections and did not use a single reference, is best described as \"anecdotal.\" Systematic studies carried out since Keith's work have failed to replicate Keith's periodisation. Instead, other studies suggest that many companies exhibited a marketing orientation in the 19th-century and that the business schools were teaching marketing decades before Pillsbury adopted a marketing-oriented approach. Jones and Richardson also investigated historical accounts of marketing practice and found evidence for both the sales and marketing era during the so-called production era and concluded that there was no \"marketing revolution\". A detailed study of the chocolate manufacturer, Rowntree, found that this company had shifted from a production orientation through to a marketing orientation by the 1930s, without having transitioned through the so-called sales orientation. Other critiques of Keith's work have pointed out that the so-called \"production era\" fails to align with historical facts and have suggested that it is a myth. Keith's eras have become known, somewhat cynically, as the \"standard chronology\".\n\nIn 1988, Fullerton developed a more subtle and nuanced periodisation for the so-called marketing eras. Fullerton's eras were:\n\n\nIn spite of the intense criticism leveled at Keith's eras of marketing practice, his periodisation is the most frequently cited in textbooks and has become the accepted wisdom. One content analysis of 25 introductory and advanced texts found that Keith's eras were reproduced in all but four. Another study, which examined 15 of the top selling marketing texts, found that the although the incidence of repeating Keith's eras was waning, it had not been replaced by Fullerton's periodisation, nor any other more meaningful framework.\n\nFor all the controversies surrounding marketing stages or periods, Keith and others appear to have contributed a lasting legacy. A study by Grundey (2010) suggests that many contemporary textbooks begin with Keith's eras and expand on it by including newer concepts such as the \"societal marketing concept\", the \"relationship marketing concept\" and the \"interfunctional concept\", as shown in the table below. More recently, Kotler and Keller added the \"holistic marketing concept\" to the list of eras in marketing. Marketing theorists continue to debate whether the holistic era represents a genuine new orientation or whether it is an extension of the marketing concept. Grundey summarised five different periodisations in the history of marketing, as shown in the following table, as a means of highlighting the general lack of agreement among scholars.\n\nDating the history of marketing, as an academic discipline, is just as problematic as the history of marketing practice. Marketing historians cannot agree on how to date the beginnings of marketing thought. Eric Shaw, for instance, suggests that a period of pre-academic marketing thought can be identified prior to 1900. Other historians suggest that the theory of marketing only emerged in the 20th century when the discipline began to offer courses at universities. Nevertheless, the birth of marketing as a discipline is usually designated to the first decade of the twentieth century when \"marketing courses\" appeared in universities. In 1902, the University of Michigan offered what many believe to be the very first course in marketing. The University of Illinois also started offering coursework in marketing in 1902. In the academic year, 1904-1905, the University of Pennsylvania commenced teaching marketing. Other universities soon followed, including the Harvard Business School.\n\nPrior to the emergence of marketing courses, marketing was not recognised as a discipline in its own right; rather it was treated as a branch of economics and was often called \"applied economics.\" Subjects, which today might be recognised as marketing-related, were embedded in economics courses. Early marketing theories were described as modifications or adaptations of economic theories.\n\nThe impetus for the separation of marketing and economics was due, at least in part, to economic's focus on production as the creator of economic value and general failure to investigate distribution. In the late 19th century and early 20th century, as markets became more globalised, distribution began to assume increasing importance. Some economics professors began to run courses examining various aspects of the marketing system, including \"distributive and regulative systems.\" Other courses, such as the \"marketing of products\" and the \"marketing of farm-products\" followed. As the first decades of the 20th century progressed, books and articles concerning marketing topics began to emerge. In 1936, the publication of the new \"Journal of Marketing\" gave marketing academics a forum for exchanging ideas and research methods and also gave the discipline a real sense of its own distinct identity as a maturing academic discipline. \n\nSeveral scholars have attempted to describe the evolution of marketing thought chronologically and to connect it with broader intellectual and academic trends. Bartels (1965) provided a brief account of marketing's formative periods, and Shah and Gardner (1982) briefly considered the development of the six dominant schools in contemporary marketing. However, these initial attempts have been criticised as overly descriptive. One of the first theorists to consider the stages in the development of marketing thought was Robert Bartels, who in \"The History of Marketing Thought,\" (1965) used a periodisation approach. He categorised the development of marketing theory decade by decade from the beginning of the 20th century:\n\n\nBartels was the first historian to provide a \"long view of marketing’s past and wide sweep of its subdisciplines\" and in so doing, he nurtured an interest in the history of marketing thought. \n\nOther marketing historians have eschewed the periodisation approach, and instead considered whether distinct schools within marketing reflect different facets of common theory and whether a more unifying intellectual structure has emerged. These approaches tend to identify distinct schools of thought. A school of thought refers to an intellectual tradition or a group of scholars who share a common philosophy or set of ideas. Marketing historians, Shaw and Jones, define a school of thought as one that has \"a substantial body of knowledge; developed by a number of scholars; and describing at least one aspect of the what, how, who, why, when and where of performing marketing activities.\" \n\nTo a certain extent, there is some agreement that in early marketing thought, three so-called traditional schools, namely the commodity school, the functional school and the institutional school co-existed. Marketing historians such as Eric Shaw and Barton A. Weitz point to the publication of Wroe Alderson's book, \"Marketing Behavior and Executive Action\" (1957), as a break-point in the history of marketing thought, moving from the macro functions-institutions-commodities approach to a micromarketing management paradigm. Following on from Alderson, marketing began to incorporate other fields of knowledge besides economics, notably behavioral science and psychology, becoming a multi-disciplinary field. For many scholars, Alderson's book marks the beginning of the \"Marketing Management Era.\" Of those historians who identify schools, there is no real agreement about which schools were dominant at different stages in marketing's development. Although the distinctive features of these schools can be identified and described, many of the early text-books included elements drawn from two or more schools of thought- for example, in a series of chapters devoted to commodities followed by a series of chapters devoted to the institutional and functional schools. \n\nIn the following section, a brief overview of the contributions of key thinkers will be outlined with respect to the prevailing schools that have dominated marketing thought. \n\nHunt and Goolsby, identified four schools of thought that have dominated marketing, namely; the commodity school, the institutional school, the functional school and the managerial school.\n\n\nSome marketing historians like Jagdish Sheth have identified the modern \"marketing schools\" as:\n\n\nYet other commentators identify a broader range of schools. O'Malley and Lichrou, for example, document the schools as:\n\nBy the 1920s, the marketing discipline was organised into three schools of thought: the commodity school, the institutional school and the functional school.The following sections briefly outlines the schools of thought as conceptualised by key thinkers in the discipline. Although these can be treated as separate schools of thought, considerable overlap between them is evident. The three schools that preceded marketing management exhibited a highly descriptive approach and collectively these are often called the \"classical schools.\" These schools borrowed heavily from economics and were largely concerned with aggregate demand and lacked a focus on the individual firm. By the 1960s, all previous schools of thought had been eclipsed by the managerial school because it offered a problem-solving approach and presented marketers with potential solutions to marketing problems that were frequently encountered. \n\nThe commodity school is thought to have originated with an article by C.C. Parlin (1916) with a focus on the \"objects of exchange\" and was primarily concerned with classifying commodities. A different article published by Copeland, and published in the \"Harvard Business Review\" (1923) proposed the convenience-shopping-specialty goods classification which is still in use today. Other theorists developed a plethora of methods for classifying goods. \n\nThe institutional school focused its attention on the \"agents of market transactions,\" specifically those organisations active in the intermediary channel system, such as wholesalers and retailers. It was primarily concerned with documenting the channels of distribution, the functions performed by channel members and the value-adding services they provided. In short, the institutional school was fundamentally concerned with the activities required to achieve efficiency within distribution systems. The institutional school was heavily influenced by economics, but in the 1970s, began to take on ideas from behavioural science. A key work in the institutional school tradition is Weld's \"The Marketing of Farm Products,\" (1916) while other important contributors included: Butler's \"Marketing and Merchandising,\" (1923); Breyer's \"Commodity and Marketing\" (1931); Converse's \"Marketing: Methods and Policies\" (1921) and Duddy & Revzan's \"Marketing: An Institutional Approach\" (1947). \n\nThe functional school was thought to have originated with the publication of Shaw's article, \"Some Problems in Market Distribution,\" (1912) The functional school was primarily concerned with documenting the \"functions of marketing.\" In other words, it attempted to address the question, What work does marketing do? Different theorists within the functional school produced long lists of marketing's functions. Although there was little agreement about what should be included in the list, much of it revolved around the value added by marketing intermediaries. In those early years, advertising and promotion was rarely seen as a marketing function. In addition to Shaw, key thinkers in the functional school included Weld, Vanderblue and Ryan. \n\nWroe Alderson changed marketing thought with the publication of his work, \"Marketing Behaviour and Executive Action\" (1957) in which he was primarily concerned with the problems and challenges faced by marketers and the types of solutions that had been found to be successful. This shifted the emphasis away from the functions of marketing and towards a more problem-solving approach, thereby paving the way for a more managerial approach within the discipline. Some historians have claimed that Alderson's article signalled a \"paradigm shift\" in thinking, towards a new \"macromarketing\" approach. \n\nThe marketing management school emerged as the dominant school in the 1960s following the publication of \"Basic Marketing: A Managerial Approach,\" written by E. Jerome McCarthy and replaced the so-called functional school which had been the dominant school for the first part of the twentieth century. In the words of Hunt and Goolsby, the publication of McCarthy's text, sounded the \"beginning of the end for the functional school.\" \nHowever, Hunt and Goolsby note that the 1960s was a transitional period in which both the functional school and the managerial school co-existed. Shaw and Jones have described the emergence of the managerial school in the mid-twentieth century as a \"paradigm shift.\" \n\nWhile the management school continued to borrow from economics, it also introduced ideas from the new and emerging fields of sociology and psychology, which offered useful insights for explaining aspects of consumer behaviour such as the influence of culture and social class. Key works in the marketing management tradition include Wroe Alderson's \"Marketing Behavior and Executive Action,\" (1957), Howard's \"Marketing Management\" (1957), Lazer's \"Managerial Marketing: Perspectives and Viewpoints,\" (1957) and McCarthy's \"Basic Marketing: A Managerial Approach\" (1960).\n\nThe salient features of the managerial approach to marketing are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175273", "title": "International Imaging Industry Association", "text": "International Imaging Industry Association\n\nThe International Imaging Industry Association (I3A) was created by a merger of the Photographic and Imaging Manufacturers Association (PIMA) and the Digital Imaging Group in 2001. It was a common forum for the industrial imaging industry. \n\nIt used to supervise standards for photography and digital imaging, such as JPEG 2000 and PTP as well as the Internet Imaging Protocol.\n\nIt disbanded in October 2013 \n\nThe Photographic and Imaging Manufacturers Association, or PIMA, was founded in 1946 under the name National Association of Photographic Manufacturers (NAPM). In 1997 the name was changed to PIMA.\n\n"}
{"id": "3542195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3542195", "title": "Isaak Löw Hofmann, Edler von Hofmannsthal", "text": "Isaak Löw Hofmann, Edler von Hofmannsthal\n\nIsaak Löw Hofmann, Edler von Hofmannsthal (10 June 1759 in Prostiebor (now Prostiboř), near Kladrau, now in the district of Pilsen, Bohemia – 12 December 1849 in Vienna) was an Austrian merchant.\n\nDuring the famine in Ansbach in the middle of the 18th century, Hofmann's parents had emigrated from Pretzendorf (now Himmelkron), near Bayreuth, to Bohemia, where they lived in very poor circumstances. His early training he received at home, and from his thirteenth year he studied at Prague as a \"bachur\" (Talmudic scholar) under Rabbi Abraham Plohn.\n\nAfter completing his studies he entered as teacher the house of Joel Baruch, a tobacco farmer for the Austrian government. Besides giving instruction to the children, Hofmann took charge of the books of his employer. When in 1788 Baruch moved to Vienna and opened a wholesale house there, Hofmann was appointed manager of the entire business. Having received the same year a permit from the Austrian government to do business in Vienna, he chose the name \"Isaak Löw Hofmann\". On the death of Baruch he was made a partner in, and in 1794 became sole member of the firm which bore the name \"Hofmann und Löwinger\". Becoming interested in 1796 in the manufacture of silk, he was one of the first to farm the silk monopoly from the Hungarian government (1802), a privilege which his house retained for nearly half a century. At his instigation, his son Emanuel wrote a pamphlet, \"Einleitung zur Seidenzucht\", of which more than 16,000 copies were distributed. Hofmann was very active in business, and succeeded in making his firm one of the leading houses of Austria-Hungary.\n\nHofmann took great interest in the Jewish community of Vienna, being president in 1806 and representative in 1812, which latter office he held until his death. In 1822 he founded the institution for the poor (\"Armenanstalt\"), which is still flourishing. He received many honours, and was made a member of the hereditary nobility by the Emperor of Austria in 1835.\n\nHe was the great-grandfather of Hugo von Hofmannsthal.\n\n"}
{"id": "55344649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55344649", "title": "James Keith Louden", "text": "James Keith Louden\n\nJames Keith (Keith or J. Keith) Louden (March 4, 1905 — August 12, 1994) was an American industrial engineer, business executive, and management author. He served as the 4th president of the Society for Advancement of Management in the year 1941-1942, and was the recipient of the 1949 Gilbreth Medal.\n\nLouden was born in Duquesne, Pennsylvania in 1905, son of George T. Louden and Minnie M. (Zimmerman) Louden. He obtained his BSc in Business Administration from Ohio State University in 1928.\n\nAfter his graduation in 1928 Louden started as industrial engineer with the Fostoria Glass Company until 1933. He was industrial engineer at the Buckeye Steel Castings Company from 1928 to 1933, and supervisor in the quality control department of Owens-Illinois Glass Company from 1936 to 1939.\n\nIn 1939 Louden had joined the National Supply Company in Pittsburgh, where he was appointed Director of Industrial Engineering. From 1942 to 1947 he was production manager at the Armstrong Cork Company, and from 1947 to 1955 he served in several management positions at the York Corporation, which became in his days a division of the BorgWarner corporation. Next, from 1957 to 1961 he served in multiple executive functions at the Lebanon Steel Foundry in Lebanon, Pennsylvania. From 1971 to 1994 he was president of Corporate Director, Inc.\n\nIn the year 1941-1942 Louden served as president of the Society for Advancement of Management as successor of Myron Henry Clark, and was succeeded by Percy S. Brown. In the years 1968-1970 he served as president of the American Management Association as successor of Alexander Trowbridge, and was succeeded by James L. Hayes.\n\nIn 1949 he was awarded the annual Gilbreth Medal by the Society for the Advancement of Management. In 1956 he received the Worcester Reed Warner Medal of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22762868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22762868", "title": "John Gilbert Newton Brown", "text": "John Gilbert Newton Brown\n\nSir John Gilbert Newton Brown CBE (1916–2003) was Publisher of the Oxford University Press and has been credited as one of the great leaders of British publishing throughout its post World War II recovery.\n\nHe was born on 7 July 1916 and was educated at Lancing College and Hertford College, Oxford. After university, he travelled to India to join the Oxford University Press at its Bombay branch in 1937. At the outbreak of war, Brown was commissioned into the Bombay Light Horse before transferring to the Royal Artillery. He was taken prisoner by the Japanese after the fall of Singapore and spent the remaining war years as a prisoner of war.\n\nFollowing release, he rejoined the OUP in London in 1946 and was appointed Sales Manager in 1949 and Publisher in 1956. He was elected President of the Publishers' Association in 1963 and helped to found the Book Development Council with John Attenborough. Brown left the OUP to join the Blackwell Publishing Group in the 1980s. He rose to be group Vice-President in 1987, a position he held until his death in 2003.\n\nBrown was appointed CBE in 1966 and knighted in 1974. He is survived by his wife, son and two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "9329806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9329806", "title": "John Quelch", "text": "John Quelch\n\nJohn Anthony Quelch CBE (born 8 August 1951) was appointed in 2017 as Vice Provost for Executive Education and Dean of the School of Business Administration at the University of Miami. He is also the Charles Edward Wilson Professor of Business Administration Emeritus at Harvard Business School and Dean Emeritus at the China Europe International Business School, Shanghai.\n\nQuelch was born in London, son of an RAF officer and a nurse . He began his education at a one-room schoolhouse in the Isle of Man, attended primary school in Australia, then returned to England, settling in Norwich and enrolling in Town Close School and later Norwich School. Quelch received his BA and MA from Exeter College, Oxford University, where he was an Open Scholar in Modern History. At Oxford, he edited the student newspaper \"Cherwell\". As a Thouron Scholar, he earned an MBA from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. He then took an SM from the Harvard School of Public Health and a DBA from Harvard Business School.\n\nQuelch's first academic post was as a visiting instructor at the University of Hawaii. He was next appointed assistant professor at the School of Business Administration (now the Ivey School) of the University of Western Ontario. In 1979, he returned to Harvard Business School as an assistant professor. He became a tenured professor in 1988 and was appointed the Sebastian S. Kresge Professor of Marketing and Co-Chair of the Marketing department in 1994.\n\nIn 1998, he was appointed Dean (with Vice-Chancellor status) of London Business School. During his tenure, revenues and student enrollments increased 50% over three years, and faculty numbers increased 30%. A network of twenty-five alumni clubs and six international advisory boards was established, corporate sponsorships doubled, and the yield on MBA admissions rose from 57% to 73%. In 2001, London Business School received the Queen's Award for Enterprise and was ranked number eight business school in the world by the \"Financial Times.\"\n\nQuelch returned to Harvard in 2001 as Lincoln Filene Professor of Business Administration and Senior Associate Dean for International Development overseeing the establishment of a global network of research centers. Between 2006 and 2008, he served as Senior Associate Dean responsible for coordinating the planning and execution of Harvard Business School's 2008 Centennial celebrations. He also served as a director of the Harvard Business School Publishing Company.\n\nIn 2009, Quelch was on sabbatical leave in Shanghai as the La Caixa Visiting Professor of International Management and Chairman of the Academic Advisory Council at the China Europe International Business School (CEIBS). Between 2011 and 2013, Professor Quelch served as Dean, Vice-President and Distinguished Professor of International Management at the CEIBS. During his tenure, CEIBS' MBA global ranking in the \"Financial Times\" improved from 24 to 15 and the Executive MBA from 18 to 7. The number of full-time faculty and CEIBS revenues both increased by one-third. Special emphasis was placed on upgrading CEIBS research output, executive education, global awareness and fundraising.\n\nQuelch returned to Harvard in 2013 as the first Harvard Business School professor to hold a joint primary appointment at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health as professor of Health Policy and Management. Between 2013 and 2017, he also served as an associate in research at Harvard's Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, fellow of the Harvard China Fund, and member of the Harvard China Advisory Board.\n\nQuelch's early research focused on the application of marketing to preventive healthcare programs.This resulted in the article \"Marketing Principles and the Future of Preventive Health Care\" (\"Milbank Memorial Fund Quarterly/Health and Society\", 1980) and other papers in the \"American Journal of Clinical Nutrition\" and \"Nutrition Reviews\".\n\nNext, Quelch focused on how to improve the design and productivity of temporary price promotions. This work coalesced in the book, \"Sales Promotion Management, (\"Prentice-Hall\",\" 1989).\n\nBy the late 1980s, Quelch had already turned his attention to the marketing implications of globalization. His research on global marketing was profiled by Mazur and Miles in \"Conversations With Marketing Masters\" (John Wiley, 2007). His books in this domain include:\n\n\nSince 2013, Quelch has focused his attention on patient centricity and consumer empowerment in the healthcare sector. \"Consumers, Corporations and Public Health,\" (Oxford University Press, 2016) was followed by \"Building A Culture of Health: A New Imperative for Business\" (Springer, 2016).\n\nQuelch's practitioner focused articles embrace eighteen contributions in the \"Harvard Business Review\".\nHis articles include: \"Bringing Customers Into The Boardroom\" (\"Harvard Business Review\", November 2004), \"How Global Brands Compete\" (\"Harvard Business Review\", September 2004), \"Building And Valuing Global Brands in the Nonprofit Sector\", (\"Nonprofit Management and Leadership\", 2007), \"Governance in the Public Sector\", (\"Directors & Boards\", 2008), \"An Exploration of Marketing's Impacts on Society: A Perspective Linked to Democracy\" (\"Journal of Public Policy and Marketing\", 2008), \"How To Market In A Downturn\" (\"Harvard Business Review\", April 2009). \"Can Corporate Social Responsibility Survive The Recession?\" (\"Leader to Leader\", 2009) and \"Government Adoption of Sales Promotions: An Initial Appraisal\" (\"Journal of Public Policy & Marketing\", 2010).\n\nProfessor Quelch is known for his teaching materials and innovations in pedagogy. His case studies have sold over 4 million copies, third highest in HBS history. In 1995, he developed the first HBS interactive CD-ROM exercise (on Intel's advertising budgeting process). In 1999, he developed and presented a series of twelve one-hour programs on Marketing Management for the Public Broadcasting System. His \"Marketing Know:How\" blog, accessible at and published by Harvard Business School Publishing, has been translated into Chinese and Vietnamese.\n\nIn 2002, Acting Governor Jane Swift of Massachusetts appointed Quelch to be chairman of the board of the Massachusetts Port Authority, overseeing three airports, waterfront real estate and the seaport of Boston. In this \"pro bono\" role, he chaired the security and safety committee and, later, the strategy and services committee of the Massport board. He submitted his resignation to Governor Deval Patrick in January 2011 after 8 1/2 years of service.\n\nIn an additional \"pro bono\" role, Quelch has served from 2003 as Honorary Consul General of the Kingdom of Morocco for the New England region. His long-standing ties to the Middle East resulted in the book, \"Business Strategies For Muslim Countries\" (Prentice Hall, 2000).\n\nQuelch has governance experience as a non-executive director of public companies in the United States and the United Kingdom. In 2013, he stepped down as a non-executive director of WPP plc, the world's largest marketing and media services company, after 25 years of service. He now serves as a non-executive director of Alere, a health diagnostics company, and Aramark, a food service and facilities management company. He served previously as a director of easyJet plc, Pentland Group plc, Pepsi Bottling Group and Reebok International Ltd. He is senior strategy advisor to JD.com, the Chinese e-commerce company.\n\nIn the not-for-profit sector, Quelch has served as honorary chairman of the British American Business Council of New England, as a trustee of the London-based STARS foundation and as a board member of Americans for Oxford, Accion International and the National Council of Better Business Bureaus.\n\nQuelch is a member of The American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Trilateral Commission, the Council on Foreign Relations and the international advisory board of British American Business, Inc.. He is a companion of the British Institute of Management, a fellow of the International Academy of Management, a freeman of the City of London and a member of the Worshipful Company of World Traders, an honorary fellow of both London Business School and Exeter College, Oxford, and a twelve time faculty fellow of the World Economic Forum.\n\nQuelch has worked as a consultant, seminar leader or conference speaker in more than sixty countries. He has assisted companies as diverse as American Airlines, Apple, Barclays, Beiersdorf, Colgate-Palmolive, Deutsche Post, GE, IBM, Intel, Nestle, Novartis, Procter & Gamble, Qualcomm, Sabic, Samsung, Sinopec, Unilever, and Walt Disney.\n\nIn 2006, Quelch was named by \"The Sunday Times\" as one of the \"Top 25 Britons who call the shots in America\". He received the annual leadership award from the British American Business Council of New England in 2008 and from the World Affairs Council of Boston in 2010. Quelch was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2011 Queen's Birthday Honours for services to the promotion of British business interests and prosperity.\nHe holds an honorary doctorate from Vietnam National University. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "56368853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56368853", "title": "Kees Koolen", "text": "Kees Koolen\n\nKees Koolen (born 19 August 1965 in Bergeijk, North Brabant) is a Dutch rally raid racer and businessman. Koolen participated in various rally raid competitions in a variety of vehicles. Koolen also was the CEO of Booking.com.\n\nKoolen studied technical business administration at the Twente University. Despite not graduating the university, started his own business as an advisor to different companies. During this time Koolen was an angel investor to different internet startups. Koolen was one of the founders of Booking.com, a price comparison website for hotels. He sold the company in 2005 to Booking Holdings for 110 milion Euros. Koolen remained Booking.com's CEO until 2011. In 2013 his wealth was estimated at 115 million euro, making him 232nd wealthiest person in the Netherlands.\n\nWhen Uber placed their headquarters in Amsterdam Koolen was requested by Travis Kalanick as the companies COO. Simultaneously the Dutchman founded Agri Brasil, a conglomerate of large dairy farms.\n\nKoolen competed in his first Dakar Rally in 2009. Racing a Honda CRF450 he finished 69th in the motorbike classification.\n\nFor the 2010 Dakar Rally Koolen and his team raced a McRae Enduro buggy. Koolen had a troubled third stage. He passed all check points but stranded on his way to the bivak and had to retire. For the 2011 Dakar Rally Koolen developed his own buggy to compete, the GoKoBra. The team entered two GoKoBra's, one for Koolen and one for teammate Jurgen van den Goorbergh. Koolen was disqualified after the sixth stage. Koolen finished the sixth stage outside the time limit but was given dispensation by the organisation. The organisation later the decided to disqualify Koolen because he missed the first check point. The team finished the 2012 Dakar Rally in 59th place.\n\nKees Koolen entered his first Dakar Rally with a quad in 2013. He again finished the Dakar Rally, in 17th place. In 2014 Koolen became the first participant to finish the Dakar Rally in all four classes. In 2014 Koolen joined Van den Goorbergh and Gijs van Uden in a Ginaf truck entered by Maxxis Dakar Team Powered by Super B. The team finished in 37th place.\n\nFor 2015 Koolen developed his own quad off-road racer. During the Dakar Rally Koolen was arrested by Chilean authorities. During the fifth stage Koolen deviated from the determined route and drove through a protected area. Koolen was released after questioning. Koolen was not the only participant racing through a protected area in the Atacama Desert, Matteo Cassucio was also arrested. The following stage Koolen retired from the rally. For 2016 Koolen returned in his Honda quad with top ten stage results. He did not finish the Dakar Rally after stage nine. After his retirement an incident with a helicopter caused his quad (without rider) to drop fifty meters to the ground.\n\nIn 2017 Koolen and his team developed the Barren Racer quad racer. With his self developed quad he scored his first stage win. He won the 219km stage between Tupiza and Oruro. The stage was shortened because of bad weather. Koolen finished the Dakar Rally in seventeenth place in class.\n"}
{"id": "40397915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40397915", "title": "Leslie Coombs Brand", "text": "Leslie Coombs Brand\n\nLeslie Coombs Brand (1859–1925) was an American real estate developer. He is best known for developing Glendale, California. \n\nLeslie Coombs Brand was born on May 12, 1859 in Florissant, Missouri. He had two sisters, Helen Dryden (b. 1857) and Ada Stocker (b. 1863), and brothers Henry (b. 1853) and Joseph (b. 1868). Their father died when he was ten years old and the family resettled in St. Louis.\n\nAt twenty years old, Leslie moved to Moberly, Missouri and became a recorder for Randolph County. He soon created a small real estate business with partners in Moberly. \n\nBrand moved to Los Angeles, California in 1886 as land development flourished, and formed the Los Angeles Abstract Company with Edwin Sargent on the corner of Franklin and New High Streets. At that time, the real estate\nbusiness in the Los Angeles area was booming, but unfortunately for Brand and Sargent, financial panic struck in 1892, the market slumped, and the two men sold their business. \n\nBrand spent the next several years outside the state. He met and married Mary Louis Dean in Galveston, Texas in 1891. He witnessed the growth of Galveston and its city center with grand, tree lined boulevards. Shortly thereafter, the couple returned to Los Angeles, and in October 1895 Brand and Sargent joined forces again to establish the Los Angeles Title Guarantee and Trust Company. Henry E. Huntington of the Los Angeles Railroad Company was also a member of the board. Brand and his wife lived at 917 Douglas in Angelino Heights along with his brother Joe and friend Dan Campbell.\n\nBy 1901 the holdings of the Title Guarantee and Trust Company north of downtown Los Angeles became the community of Glendale. At the time it had a population of 550 and was dependent on the telephone and telegraph services of the adjacent town of Tropico. Brand saw the potential for the expansion of towns surrounding Los Angeles, and began to work determinedly on the development of the small community of Glendale. Together with Henry E. Huntington, he formed the San Fernando Valley Land and Development Company.\n\nLeslie Brand is often called the father of Glendale due to the role he played in the development of the City in the early 1900s. He partnered with Henry Huntington and Edgar Goode to bring the electric rail to connect Glendale to Los Angeles. \nAt the time the tracks ran up Brand Boulevard to Casa Verdugo between Stocker and Randolph where the company established a restaurant under the management of Mrs. Piedad Yorba de Sowl, which quickly became very popular. \nAt one time he owned Glendale Light & Power Company, the Miradero Water Company and the Consolidated Water Company. He sold the power and water companies to the City of Glendale to provide municipal services to the community. He also established the San Fernando Valley Home Telephone Company providing phone services. \n\nBrand explored the idea of building a residence in the foothills above Glendale where he had purchased land. He hired architect , his brother in law, to design and build a mansion based on the East Indian Pavilion he had seen at the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893. Between 1903 and 1904 the house was built and named \"El Miradero\" by Brand, meaning a high place overlooking an extensive view. \n\nLeslie Brand became an airplane enthusiast in part to reduce his commute to his property in Mono Lake. He purchased fifteen acres and built an airstrip below El Miradero for his special ordered army surplus Curtiss JN-6H (Hisso Jenny). The Brands hosted \"fly-in\" parties with local dignitaries and movie stars of the silent era. Brand and his wife enjoyed entertaining at their home and had pilots on staff to fly himself and his guests.\n\nBrand married Lulu Broughton in 1883, but she died a few months later. He later married Mary Louise Dean in 1891 (1871–1945). His sister married the architect Nathaniel Dryden (1849–1924). \n\nSince they had no children of their own, Mr. Brand and his wife enjoyed time with their family, including his sisters, nieces and nephews. They were also avid dog owners, several of the Brand dogs are buried in the Brand cemetery. On the grounds of El Miradero there were many facilities for recreation, including a swimming pool, tennis courts, horse stables, gardens and greenhouse. \n\nIn the summer of 1924, Leslie Brand was diagnosed with terminal cancer and he convalesced at home. He decided to donate his home and acreage to the City of Glendale to be used exclusively as a Public Library and Public Park. He died on April 10, 1925 in Glendale, California. Upon the death of Mary Louise Brand in 1945, El Miradero, its gardens and parkland became the property of the City of Glendale. The home would be used for cultural purposes until the opening of the Brand Library and Art Center in 1956.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33296481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33296481", "title": "MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference", "text": "MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference\n\nThe goal of the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference is to provide a forum to discuss the increasing role of analytics in the sports industry. Founded in 2006, the conference is co-chaired by Daryl Morey, General Manager & Managing Director of Basketball Operations for the Houston Rockets, and Jessica Gelman, CEO of KAGR (Kraft Analytics Group), who oversee MIT Sloan students (from the EMS Club) in the planning and operating of the yearly conference. It is the largest student-run conference in the world, attracting students from over 170 different schools and representatives from over 80 professional sports teams in the MLB, NBA, NFL, NHL, MLS, and Premier League. The conference is held in the Boston area and while its location has moved from the MIT campus to higher capacity convention centers, it has always occurred during February or March. One of the largest student run conferences in the country, it has been sold out every year and has become the premier venue for sports analytics discussion. ESPN has been the presenting sponsor since 2010 and the conference has garnered national attention through media outlets such as \"Sports Illustrated\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Boston Globe\", \"Time\", \"BusinessWeek\", NBC Sports, Fox Sports, ESPN's \"Pardon the Interruption\", and \"Forbes\". ESPN columnist Bill Simmons has nicknamed the conference Dorkapalooza.\n\nThe MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference was ranked #3 by \"Fast Company\" magazine in its 2012 ranking of the world's most innovative sports companies behind only the NFL and MLB Advanced Media.\n\nOn March 3-4 at the Hynes Convention Center in Boston, the Sloan Sports Analytics Conference (SSAC) entered its second decade of existence, and did so together with 3,500 attendees united by their passion for sports, statistical analysis, and business. After a record 39 panels, 39 Competitive Advantage talks, 7 interactive events, and the conference’s first ever esports exhibition, SSAC lived up to this year’s conference theme: Elevate the Game.\n\nConference Co-Chair Jessica Gelman kicked things off Friday morning, moderating the Titans of the Sports Industry panel featuring Michael Rubin, Jared Smith, Michael Spillane, and Casey Wasserman. The discussants set the bar high with a candid conversation about taking a business global and the role of analytics in building a successful company. In the afternoon 275K people tuned in through Facebook Live to watch 538’s Nate Silver interview NBA Commissioner Adam Silver.\n\nAnother Friday highlight was the all-star lineup of executives Billy Beane, Sam Hinkie, SSAC Co-Chair Daryl Morey, and Farhan Zaidi taking the stage to discuss the role of cognitive bias in decision making. That wasn’t Morey’s only strong performance of the day. He was one of the last people standing against Chess Grandmaster Susan Polgar, who knocked out 10 opponents in under an hour in SSAC’s first ever chess simulation.\n\nOn Day 2, Nate Silver sat down with Mark Cuban, one of the biggest personalities in the NBA, to discuss everything from sports to his political aspirations. Their back-and-forth entertained more than the capacity crowd in the Hynes Center, reaching 330K people on Facebook Live.\n\nOther popular panels featured looks at the role of sustainability in sports, disruptors in the sports industry—featuring Bob Bowman, Bobby Kotick, Jonathan Kraft, and Jason Robins—engaging the modern fan, and a discussion of negotiating strategies with Warren Legarie, Daryl Morey, Bob Myers, and Deepak Malhotra. During the Getting the Scoop panel, Adam Schefter managed to give a live demonstration, breaking some NFL news mid-panel.\n\nCompetitive Advantage talks by John D’Angelo, Larry Coon, Meeta Singh, and Eric Joyce and Cam Lawrence on, respectively, preventing Tommy John surgery, understanding the new NBA Collective Bargaining Agreement, the impact of sleep on sports performance, and analytics’ role in NHL draft strategy generated significant interest. Over two days leaders from across the sports landscape provided attendees insight on some of the most critical issues in the industry today. Attendees were also treated to 9 workshops on topics ranging from coding in SQL to data scraping and optimization.\n\nThe Research Papers Competition presented by Wasserman remains a key source of innovation where groundbreaking researchers from around the world redefine sports analytics. Top prize went to John Drazan, Amy Loya, Benjamin Horne, and Ron Eglash for their work on using sports analytics to stimulate youth interest in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.\n\nThe entrepreneurial spirit was alive and well at the Startup Competition & Trade Show, with 24 companies aiming to disrupt the sports industry. In addition, 2017 marked the introduction of the Accelerator Competition presented by Reebok. The judges were so impressed with the participants that both Nix Biotech and Open Gym walked away with the top prize and the opportunity to grow their businesses with Reebok’s support. Additional events—a dedicated esports room that hosted a ProAm tournament, drone racing, and a chess simulation with Polgar—helped make this the most interactive SSAC yet.\n\nFinally, it wouldn’t be SSAC without a nod to the individuals who have used analytics to transform the sports world. Oakland A’s Executive Vice President Billy Beane, whose Moneyball approach to baseball has made an impact far beyond the diamond, took home the Alpha Award for Lifetime Achievement. The 2016 World Champion Chicago Cubs were named Best Analytics Organization. Bob Myers and the Golden State Warriors took the Best Transaction prize for bringing Kevin Durant to the Bay Area just three months before Durant added an NBA Championship and Finals MVP to his resume. Finally, Q30 and its anti-concussion Q-Collar earned an Alpha Award for Best Innovation.\n\nThe excitement was hardly limited to the people in the Hynes Convention Center. SSAC’s social media footprint was massive throughout the two days. The conference’s live streams reached over 650K people. SSAC’s Snapchat filter was viewed by over 22.8K accounts. The conference made its mark on Twitter, with #SSAC17 trending No. 1 nationally.\n\nThe inaugural conference was held on February 10, 2007 at a variety of classrooms on the MIT campus and had 175 attendees. Nine different panel topics were showcased including baseball analytics featuring Bill James, basketball analytics, fan management, and sports technology. The conference was highlighted by keynote speakers J.P. Ricciardi, then-Senior Vice President of Baseball Operations and General Manager of the Toronto Blue Jays and Jamie McCourt, then-CEO of the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nThe conference was held on February 9, 2008 at the Ray and Maria Stata Center. The 350 guests in attendance heard a keynote speech by Boston Celtics CEO and co-owner Wycliffe Grousbeck. Among the eleven panels offered during the day, the most popular was Defending the Title, which included decision-makers from the then reigning champions of the four major sports leagues; Bill Polian (Then President, Indianapolis Colts), RC Buford (General Manager, San Antonio Spurs), Brian Burke (Then General Manager, Anaheim Ducks), and Jed Hoyer (Then Assistant General Manager, Boston Red Sox).\n\nThe conference was held on March 7, 2009 at the Stata Center for the final time and was the first to use a featured panel format. Before an audience of 550 the panel, Value of Icon Players, highlighted by Boston Celtics all-star guard Ray Allen discussed how to quantify the contribution made by star players to a team or city. The other featured panel, Evolution of the Fan Experience, looked at how new technology, stadium design, game innovations, and customer initiatives impact fan experience. It was moderated by Bill Simmons and included ESPN commentator Jeff Van Gundy and Brian Burke.\n\nThe conference was held on March 6, 2010 and with over 1,000 attendees, it nearly doubled the gallery from the previous year. As a result, the conference was moved off-campus to the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center in South Boston to accommodate the growing interest. The conference was headlined by a panel that addressed the limits of statistical analysis entitled What Geeks Don't Get: The Limits of Moneyball and was moderated by author Michael Lewis and featured Bill Polian, Jonathan Kraft, Mark Cuban and Bill Simmons. One specific situation discussed was the November 15, 2009 game between the New England Patriots and Indianapolis Colts in which the Patriots, up 34-28 with the ball on their own 28 yard line, decided to go for it on 4th & 2 rather than punt. Among the other popular panels were Coaching Analytics with New Jersey Nets Head Coach Avery Johnson and Baltimore Orioles Manager Buck Showalter and Next Generation Sports Management and Ownership with Boston Celtics Owner Steve Pagliuca and Tampa Bay Rays President Matt Silverman.\n\nA research paper track was introduced in which individuals could submit original analysis that offers a new perspective on anything from evaluating players and game strategies, to examining the success factors for sports business. The research paper track has continued to be an integral part of future conferences. Submissions are evaluated by the organizing committee and, if selected, authors make a 45-minutue presentation to vie for a $7,500 prize. The 2010 winner, Joe Sill, presented \"Improved NBA Adjusted +/- Using Regularization and Out-of-Sample Testing \" which analyzed the traditional way adjusted plus/minus is evaluated and offered a technique to improve its accuracy.\n\nThe conference was held from March 4–5, 2011 at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center once again. The conference expanded to a two-day format for the first time, running from early Friday morning until late Saturday afternoon. It was attended by over 1,500 guests and had a waitlist of 300. The first panel of the conference was headlined by Malcolm Gladwell and featured a dialog about whether modern athletes' skills are innate or developed through extensive training. For the remainder of the conference, each time-slot had 3 panels running simultaneously and covered the standard topics of Baseball, Basketball, and Football analytics along with a range of new content. Some of the more popular new panels included The Decision: How Players and Teams Will Choose in the Future with retired basketball player Donny Marshall, CEO and Founder of Priority Sports & Entertainment Mark Bartelsteain, R.C. Buford, Brian Burke, and Michael Wilbon, Referee Analytics with longtime NFL official Mike Carey, and The Future of the Game Day Experience: HDTV vs. Live Events anchored by Co-founder and Chairman of HDNet Mark Cuban. The research paper track was expanded and the 2011 conference added several new facets to the traditional panel discussions. These events include the Evolution of Sport (EOS) presentations, the First Pitch MBA Sports Business Case Competition, and a trade show that offers sports-industry startups the ability to demonstrate products or services and connect with potential customers or business partners.\n\nThe competition showcased the work of nineteen authors. The winner, Arup Sen, presented \"The Moral Hazard in Long‐Term Guaranteed Contracts: Theory and Evidence from the NBA\" which analyzed the effect the final year of a contract has on player performance. \n\nSimilar in scope to TED talks, these presentations offer individuals a chance to present a message, idea or thought that could someday change the face of sport. The 2011 conference featured 14 speakers who were each given roughly 20 minutes to address the audience. Two of the most popular presentations were by Mark Sweeney, founder of AimPoint Technologies, who presented Accelerated Skill Acquisition in Putting and by Henry Abbott, senior writer at ESPN, who presented Bad Decisions in Sports Skew Macho. Some of the others topics included; The Importance of Being Open: What Optical Tracking Data Can Say About NBA Field Goal Shooting, The Foundation of Elite Sports Analytics: Three Secrets You Must Know, and Better Off Guessing? Measuring the Quality of Draft Decisions. The talks have since become some of the most downloaded content on the conference website.\n\nThe case competition presents teams with a current sports business situation and asks students to analyze the situation and present a recommendation. The initial competition was sponsored by AECOM and featured 15 teams from top MBA programs including; MIT Sloan School of Management, Harvard Business School, University of Chicago Booth School of Business, University of Virginia Darden School of Business, Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, and Yale School of Management. The MIT Sloan School of Management team was the winner of the inaugural competition.\n\nThe 6th annual conference was held from March 2–3, 2012 at the Hynes Convention Center located in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston. The attendance grew by over 50% from 2011 (13x increase since 2007) to over 2,200 guests with a waitlist of 250. There were 23 panels featuring over 100 panelists, and had representatives from 5 current championship teams, including: Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, Manchester United F.C. CEO David Gill, Boston Bruins GM Peter Chiarelli, New York Giants Chairman Steve Tisch, and current Houston Astros GM and former St. Louis Cardinals Vice President Jeff Luhnow.\n\nThe conference had multiple panels running simultaneously and covered the sports of baseball, basketball, football, hockey, soccer, tennis, motorsports. A groundbreaking eSports panel, highlighting the growth of competition in video games, panel was also featured. 11 first-time panels were introduced and addressed topics both on the business and operations of sports. The conference theme of celebrating analytics was exemplified through images of analytical decisions displayed throughout the venue. Among those included were Brain Westbrook taking a knee on the 1 yard-line with 2 minutes left to allow the Eagles to run out the clock, Greg Popovich employing Hack-a-Shaq in key moments, New Orleans Saints onside kick to start the 2nd half of the 2010 Super Bowl, and the Patriots allowing a touchdown while leading with 64 seconds to play in the 2012 Super Bowl. \nThe most popular panels were \"In the Best Interest of the Game: The Evolution of Sports Leagues\", which addressed how leagues have evolved and what the future holds regarding both on-field and off-field issues, \"Fanalytics\" which looked how to predict fan behavior and improve the fan experience drive revenues, and \"Franchises in Transition\" which highlighted the various strategies used by teams to achieve success.\n\n\nEach day of the conference ended with a live B.S. Report with Bill Simmons interviewing Bill James on Friday and Mark Cuban on Saturday. The ESPN show Numbers Never* Lie, hosted by Michael Smith and Charissa Thompson, was broadcast live from the conference on Friday afternoon and conversed with conference panelists Mark Shapiro, Paraag Marathe, and Bill James. The conference continued its success in attracting new, interesting and unique research papers and Evolution of Sports talks. Some new facets unveiled for this conference included the inaugural \"Alpha Awards\" for sports analytics achievement as well as the inaugural \"Trade Show Business Competition\". The conference website also added a sports analytics blog and job board.\n\nThe research paper track received over 100 submissions and 20 authors were selected to display their work at the conference, with 10 chosen to given 20 minute presentations. The presenters competed for the $7,500 Grand Prize. The paper \"Deconstructing the Rebound with Optical Tracking Data\" by Rajiv Maheswaran was awarded the Grand Prize. \"CourtVision: New Visual and Spatial Analytics for the NBA\" by Kirk Goldsberry received second place. Additionally, the inaugural ESPN \"Fan’s Choice\" award was initiated. The competition was featured in the March 5th issue of ESPN The Magazine and voting occurred online. There were over 900,000 total votes and the paper \"Effort vs. Concentration: The Asymmetric Impact of Pressure on NBA Performance\" by Matthew Goldman and Justin Rao was crowned the winner.\n\nThe Evolution of Sport (EOS) presentations returned for a second year and featured 11 talks selected from over 80 submissions. 11 additional talks were specifically sought out by the organizing team for their unique ideas. The winning talk was, \"From 5 to 13: Redefining the Positions of Basketball\" by Muthu Alagappan. Other topics touched on included, Mixed Martial Arts, concussions, the force of slam dunks, automated journalism, the America's Cup, and NASCAR driver development.\n\nThe competition, sponsored by the NFL, asked 21 teams of MBA students from top global programs to analyze a current business situation facing the league. Specifically, students were asked to refine methods teams use to \"right size\" professional football stadiums. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business (Josh Yelsey, Moon Javaid, Shreena Amin) won the competition.\n\nThe competition gave 12 start-ups \"4 Good Minutes\" to explain their business and its role within the sport industry. StarStreet, a real money sports stock market, won the inaugural competition and the $3,500 cash prize. MC10, who develops next generation of electronic systems and SportBoard, who provides scouting and assessment software for all levels of sports were the other finalists.\n\nThe conference created the 1st Annual \"Alpha Awards\" to recognize people and organizations that have changed sports by defying conventional wisdom through sports analytics. The following were the inaugural winners:\n\nThe 7th annual MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference was held from March 1–2, 2013 at the Boston Convention & Exhibition Center (BCEC). Attendance grew by over 25% from 2012 to more than 2,700 guests and featured 125 panelists across 30 panels. Featured panelists included: Michael Lewis, Mark Cuban, Nate Silver, R.C. Buford, Brian Burke, Jack Del Rio, Herman Edwards, Stan Kasten, Jonathan Kraft, Andrea Kremer, Jackie MacMullan, Steve Pagliuca, Bill Polian, Adam Silver, John Skipper, and Stan Van Gundy.\n\nThe conference featured multiple panels running simultaneously and covered a range of topics across sports and the business of sports. Featured panels included \"Revenge of the Nerds,\" which covered the rise of probabilistic thinking using objective data in decision making across all disciplines, \"The Changing Nature of Ownership\" highlighting the challenges and opportunities for today's’ owners and their various partners, and \"It’s Not You, It’s Me,\" which discussed whether or not coaches get fired with too great a frequency, and what the data tells us about how these breakups impact performance.\n\nThe theme of the 2013 conference was \"Going Back to the Data.\" Specifically, the conference explored how today’s thought leaders have found more meaningful ways to analyze, visualize and prioritize data to improve decision making. The discussion examined the influence of big data, the rise of technology, and the evolving competitive advantage analytics provides.\n\nThe conference continued to emphasize and promote innovation in the sports industry through conference staples such as the research paper competition and Evolution of Sport (EoS) series. Each was again a featured part of the conference, drawing packed audiences across the two days. In the research paper category, \"The Value of Flexibility in Baseball Roster Construction\" by Timothy Chan and Douglas Fearing took home first prize, while \"The Automated Prospect Model\" by Adam Guttridge was selected as the best EoS presentation.\n\nOpportunities for students and start-ups to share their ideas remained a focus with the third annual \"First Pitch\" business case competition sponsored by Major League Baseball Advanced Media. In a similar forum, the second annual Trade Show Blitz Competition provided space for exploring new, unique ideas in sports analytics from start-up companies.\n\nFinally, our second Lifetime Achievement Alpha Award winner was Bill Belichick, Head Coach of the New England Patriots. He accepted the honor via video and the video promptly went viral.\n\nThe conference's impact on the sports industry continued to grow with over 100 media mentions over the two-day conference, including articles from Bloomberg, \"Forbes\", \"The New York Times\", and \"Sports Illustrated\". Additionally, the conference trended #3 nationally on Twitter and in the top 5 internationally, with 22,000 #ssac or #ssac13 tweets posted throughout the conference.\n\n\"From Ripple to Revolution,\" co-chair Daryl Morey began in echoing the theme of the 2014 MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference. \"Things start small, and using analytics, eventually become a necessary part of competing.\" Morey’s panel with some of the great innovators in sports – Bill James and Nate Silver – kicked off a conference which has become the fabric of the sports analytics revolution. In 2014, 2000+ attendees representing 300+ teams, leagues and sports-related organizations descended on Boston to hear the latest in the development and use of sports analytics. Expanding far beyond the attendees at the Hynes Convention Center, the conference trended on Twitter as high as third throughout the US, with conference attendees relaying quotes and insights to a broad online audience, while hundreds followed panel live-streams on YouTube. Eight years into the conference’s history, nearly every aspect of the sports industry has been impacted by the data revolution. Once again co-chaired by Jessica Gelman and Morey, the 2014 version featured 25 panels, 27 presentations, and 100+ speakers. Innovation in sports analytics remained a primary focus, with over 300 entries in the research paper competition and a series of Evolution of Sports talks by analytics thought-leaders. The role of analytics on the business side of the industry also increased in prominence, with an expanded Competitive Advantage series highlighting the growing role of data in managerial decision-making.\n\nThe heart of the conference remained the panels featuring pre-eminent analytic and industry leaders. The talk of the first day centered around its culmination, the \"Building a Dynasty\" panel in which Jonathan Kraft talked with Jackie MacMullan about the Patriots’ run in the 2000s and Phil Jackson discussed how he led the Bulls and Lakers to 11 NBA Championships. In other Day 1 highlights, panelists discussed the increasing use of analytics on the field, in the front office, and in the boardroom, including entrepreneurs sharing their stories in \"Starting a Sports Business,\" featuring founder-CEOs Kevin Plank of Under Armour, Michael Rubin of Fanatics and Casey Wasserman of his eponymous sports marketing and talent agency.\n\nThis set the stage for a fast-paced Day 2, when a massive crowd filled the main ballroom to watch Malcolm Gladwell engage new NBA commissioner Adam Silver in a heated one-on-one that had the basketball world talking. There was a major splash on the diamond as well with MLB Advanced Media using the SSAC stage to roll out its defensive tracking technology that will fundamentally change the way baseball players are evaluated.\n\nWhile league luminaries, front-office decision-makers and industry leaders spoke about how they are employing analytics in decision-making on the panel stage, the next major advances in sports analytics were shared through research papers, Competitive Advantage presentations, Evolution of Sport talks, Tradeshow competition and the First Pitch MBA case competition. Second Spectrum Inc. won best research paper for the second time in the conference's history based on defining basketball’s rebounding statistic into three separate quantifiable skills. Peter Carr won the EoS competition for his work on \"Broadcasting Live Sports Automatically Using Robotic Cameras.\" Swingbyte, Inc. was judged to be the top presenter at the startup trade show, marketing a product that gives golfers real-time swing analysis on their phones. The team from the University of Wisconsin School of Business captured Aramark’s First Pitch MBA case competition on the analytics of the fan experience, and best transaction was awarded to the three-team trade between the Boston Red Sox, Detroit Tigers, and Chicago White Sox. New York Mets general manager Sandy Alderson was given the Lifetime Achievement Alpha Award for his career in baseball, including his role on the forefront of applying sabermetrics in the front office while GM of the Athletics and mentor to Billy Beane and his subsequent tenures as GM of the San Diego Padres and New York Mets. The conference continued to be a hotbed for recruiting and hiring within the industry. The introduction of a resume review session, \"Career Conversations\" between students and business leaders, and a panel on breaking into the sports world highlighted the opportunities and interest of the next generation of sports professionals who will carry forward the revolution.\n\n“This year it has been incredible to see the growth of sports analytics both in breadth and depth” conference chair Jessica Gelman exclaimed to kick off the 2015 Sloan Sports Analytics Conference. Continuing as the preeminent sports industry conference, SSAC15 also grew in breadth and depth as it pushed out the limits of data analytics and sport, delivering two days of groundbreaking innovation and discussion. The conference welcomed three commissioners: NBA Commissioner Adam Silver, MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred, and MLS Commissioner Don Garber, once again highlighting the growing acceptance of sports analytics.\n\nThe much anticipated 2015 conference brought together leading sports innovators, influencers and technologies at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center February 27–28. The ninth annual conference drew more than 3,200 attendees (a 50% growth from 2014), representing over 100 professional teams and 300 sports industry organizations. Featuring 29 panels and 15 Competitive Advantage presentations, the conference delved into themes for every fan and industry professional with topics ranging from early analytic adopters, player contract negotiations, entrepreneurship, sports betting, the future of sports media, the value of digital media for fan engagement, adapting and expanding the game for the modern fan and the future of sports analytics. Attendees enjoyed insights from Shane Battier and Sue Bird equating data analytics to another tool in their arsenal similar to a jump shot or strength training; Commissioner Silver, Jonathan Kraft and Marie Donoghue shared their unique vision on media rights and the ever-changing landscape of fan consumption; and SSAC veterans Brian Burke, Nate Silver, RC Buford and Scott Pioli got into heated discussions about how much to attribute the improvement of sports to analytics and how analytics will contribute to the future of sport over the next 5–10 years Other conference speakers included industry veterans such as Wyc Grousbeck, Sean Payton, Oliver Luck, Bob Myers, Jackie MacMullan and many more. \n\nThe SSAC research paper competition continued to remain at the forefront of sports analytics research and showcased some of the most exciting and cutting-edge developments in the theory and practice of sports analytics. Several teams of researchers and academics presented their findings to a panel of expert judges, who produced a split outcome, with two teams sharing the first-place prize. The first team, a group of statisticians at Harvard University, introduced “Counterpoints,” a framework for quantifying basketball players’ defensive contributions based on their ability to suppress and alter shots. The second team, a duo of analysts at Baseball Info Solutions, developed a method to quantify and more finely assign credit for pitch framing to catchers, batters, pitchers and umpires.\n\nThe conference featured two inaugural and fully interactive events: the Data Science and Visualization Zone presented by Booz Allen Hamilton and the SSAC Hackathon presented by ESPN’s Stats & Info Group. The Data Science and Visualization Zone included groundbreaking technological demos, conversation areas, and presentations. The SSAC Hackathon featured students from top universities competing for a coveted internship with ESPN as well as professionals from industry leading companies. Participants analyzed and presented innovative ways to visualize NFL data in order to improve the fan and media experience.\n\nThe conference continued to be a leading recruiting and hiring tool for the sports industry. Lines were out the door early Saturday morning for “Career Conversations” as students met 1-1 with sports business leaders to learn about roles in the sports industry, followed by a panel on breaking into the coveted industry.\n\nSSAC 2015 built on the successes of previous years’ conferences and continued to pioneer the field of sports analytics. With its original content, invited speakers and showcase of advanced technological innovations, SSAC 2015 once again set the industry conference standard in sports analytics.\n\n“We had 175 folks at that first conference…this year we have more speakers than we had attendees [at that first conference]” said conference chair Jessica Gelman in her opening remarks of the 2016 Sloan Sports Analytics Conference. As the conference celebrated its 10th year—-its #DecadeOfData—-Gelman and fellow co-chair Daryl Morey reflected on the roots of the preeminent sports industry conference—fondly referred to as the “Super Bowl of Analytics” and “Dork-a-Palooza”—and the massive growth of both the conference and the sports analytics industry as a whole in those ten short years. \n\nThe much anticipated 10th anniversary conference brought together leaders from across the sports community—from teams to players, innovators and influencers—at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center on March 11-12. The 2016 conference, presented by ESPN, grew to new heights in both size and content with nearly 4,000 attendees (20% growth from 2015), over 1,500 students from over 320 academic institutions, 130 teams and leagues and 300 industries attending more content than ever before. The conference featured 6 more panels, double the number of Competitive Advantage talks, the introduction of workshops, and the first ever Facebook live stream of a panel, which reached over 312,000 viewers. Attendees contributed record-breaking conference interactions over the course of the weekend, with over 15,000 posts utilizing the hashtag #SSAC16, over 60 million impressions and over 13,000 accounts viewing the conference snapchat filter.\nThe conference opened with a reference to its earliest inspiration: a Moneyball reunion panel with Bill James, Michael Lewis and Paul DePodesta. Throughout the rest of the weekend, industry leaders covered topics ranging from new scientific developments in panels on sports science and wearable technology, to sports business panels on modern sports finance and the future of the front office, to one-on-ones with NHL commissioner Gary Bettman and Nate Silver. Attendees were treated to insights from Jonathan Kraft, Michael Rubin and Jared Smith on the ways sports organizations are connecting in a more personalized manner and generating targeted content faster to enhance the fan experience. Jackie MacMullan closed the conference by moderating a high-energy discussion on player retention, building a winner and the overall future of the front office between Nick Caserio, Jeff Luhnow, Bob Myers and Daryl Morey. Other conference speakers included Stan Kroenke, Sam Kennedy, Wyc Grousbeck, Shane Battier, Steve Pagliuca, Vivek Ranadive, Oliver Luck, Michelle McKenna-Doyle, Sue Bird and many more. \n\nWhile league and industry leaders spoke about the current applications of analytics in the panel rooms, the newest advances in sports analytics thinking and technology were showcased in the research papers competition, startup competition, the data visualization room and the Hack-a-thon. A team of Australian researchers won the prestigious Research Paper competition presented by Ticketmaster for their work using Hawkeye technology to discover player patterns in tennis, and, in turn, predict the probability of a given player winning a point. \n\nThe conference continued to be a leading resource for developing new talent in the world of sports with the Hackathon, presented by ESPN, the MBA case competition presented by Ticketmaster—which was won by a team from McGill University—and career conversations providing opportunities for the 1,000+ students in attendance to network and demonstrate their industry skills. \n\nThe weekend concluded with the presentation of the Alpha Awards, as the conference recognized achievement across the entire landscape of sports analytics, as well as special recognition to the ten devotees who been a part of every conference thus far. Through the increasing number of dedicated attendees and the growth and development of the sports analytics field, SSAC 2016 was able to build on the success of previous conferences and again set the industry conference standard in sports analytics.\n"}
{"id": "3785733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3785733", "title": "Marginal rate of technical substitution", "text": "Marginal rate of technical substitution\n\nIn microeconomic theory, the Marginal Rate of Technical Substitution (MRTS)—or Technical Rate of Substitution (TRS)—is the amount by which the quantity of one input has to be reduced (formula_1) when one extra unit of another input is used (formula_2), so that output remains constant (formula_3).\n\nformula_4\n\nwhere formula_5 and formula_6 are the marginal products of input 1 and input 2, respectively.\n\nAlong an isoquant, the MRTS shows the rate at which one input (e.g. capital or labor) may be substituted for another, while maintaining the same level of output. Thus the MRTS is the absolute value of the slope of an isoquant at the point in question.\n\nWhen relative input usages are optimal, the marginal rate of technical substitution is equal to the relative unit costs of the inputs, and the slope of the isoquant at the chosen point equals the slope of the isocost curve (see Conditional factor demands). It is the rate at which one input is substituted for another to maintain the same level of output.\n\n"}
{"id": "10589174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10589174", "title": "Mauricio González Sfeir", "text": "Mauricio González Sfeir\n\nMauricio González Sfeir (born 1956) is a petroleum company executive and president of the Bolivian professional football team La Paz F.C.. Mr. Gonzalez served as president of YPFB (Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos) and Secretary of Energy of Bolivia in the mid-1990s, contributing to the success of the Bolivia-Brazil natural gas pipeline. He is a co-author of the Baker Institute's \"Americas Project.\"\nMauricio Gonzalez studied economics at DePaul University and Yale University and finance & management at Harvard Business School. Furthermore, he pursued post-graduate studies at Oxford University, while on a Marshall Scholarship. During college, he was a summer intern at the Wall Street investment bank Goldman Sachs. After completing his university education and prior to returning to Bolivia, Mr. Gonzalez worked as an international management consultant in the London office of The Boston Consulting Group.\n\nMr. Gonzalez has had a lifelong involvement with sport. He represented Bolivia in Junior Davis Cup tennis competition at the South American level (once defeating Ricardo Ycaza in doubles), taught tennis at the Welby Van Horn Tennis Camp, and played on the tennis teams of DePaul University (under legendary coach George Lott) and Oxford University. He is a past president of The Strongest football club, a past president of the La Paz Football Association and a past vice-president of the Bolivian Football Federation (Federación Boliviana de Fútbol).\n\nMr. Gonzalez is a charismatic promoter of Bolivian football (soccer), including junior and women's divisions. He has also been a forceful spokesman and advocate for the proposition that the Bolivian national team and Bolivian club teams should be allowed to play official international matches—including World Cup qualifying games—in the high altitude cities of La Paz, Oruro, and Potosi. He is a leading member of an \"ad hoc\" committee of prominent Bolivians formed to design a strategy to campaign against the FIFA altitude ban.\n\nMedia Coverage\n\n"}
{"id": "23549377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23549377", "title": "Metal prices", "text": "Metal prices\n\nMetal prices (metal commodities) are only for a few metals quoted on exchanges. Only aluminium alloy, aluminium, copper, lead, nickel, tin, zinc and Nasaac (North American special aluminium alloy) are exchange traded commodities. Other metals (like bismuth, selenium, tellurium, and many others) are traded on market demand and the buyers/sellers themselves set the price.\n\nThe London Metal Exchange which trades the commodities mentioned above is planning to add trading contracts for cobalt and molybdenum in the course of 2009/2010.\n\nContracts traded on metal exchanges are also called futures contracts.\n\nThere are companies which provide a pricing service set the price by talking to producers, traders and consumers. These prices are more an indication than an actual exchange price.\n\nUnlike the prices on an exchange, pricing providers tend to give a weekly or bi-weekly price. For each commodity they quote a range (low and high price) which reflect the buying and selling rbout 9-fold due to China's transition from light to heavy industry and its focus on manufacturing. (China became the world's largest consumer of iron ore in 2003, and accounts for over half of global metal consumption.)\n\nThe commodities quoted have a specific grade and quality of the forms in which they are most often traded.\n\nAn example:\nCobalt is an important export product of Russia and therefore the Russian quality is often traded. Another form of cobalt crucial to the aerospace industry is a high grade form of cobalt with 99.8% purity.\n"}
{"id": "9717010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9717010", "title": "Montgomery Building (El Paso, Texas)", "text": "Montgomery Building (El Paso, Texas)\n\nThe Montgomery Building is the last surviving false-front structure and the oldest existing business building in the City of El Paso, Texas.\n\nThe Montgomery Building was built as the American El Paso, as opposed to a Mexican El Paso, underwent a great transformation from a dusty adobe village to a thriving city following the arrival of the railroad on May 13, 1881. The Southern Pacific Railroad had just arrived in El Paso and two other railroads were approaching the outskirts of the county. A great commercial building boom followed as lumber and brick structures, some two stories high, began replacing adobe ones. El Paso Street became a bustling center of commerce running from San Jacinto Plaza on San Francisco Street to the ferry landing at the Rio Grande.\n\nIn 1882, just months after the Four Dead in Five Seconds Gunfight, William J. Montgomery (1833–1899) built this structure on a vacant lot between two buildings that were situated North and South of the property. Montgomery made use of the two buildings' existing walls, constructing only a roof, floor, front wall and back wall. He ran a new wall down the middle, creating two new addresses, 216 and 218 El Paso Street.\n\nThe building was typical of western frontier architecture of the late 19th century. It featured a false front to make it appear taller and more like commercial buildings found in the East. Originally, the building housed a drug store and a book store.\n\nThe outward appearance of the Montgomery building was typical of those built in Western towns during the railroad boom of the late 19th century. Developers wanted railroad towns to look as much like eastern towns as possible so stone and lumber quickly replaced adobe and log as the primary building materials. Timber was scarce in El Paso but the railroad brought milled lumber, much of it from the Cloudcroft area. Railroads also brought pressed tin, cast iron, glass and hardware that were used to simulate styles popular in the eastern United States.\n\nThe one-part commercial building is a simple box with a decorated wood façade and cornice. The architectural style of small, pitched-roof buildings with false fronts created the commercial core of the new western towns during the mid-19th century.\n\nThe Montgomery building had one ground-level floor with a false front added to make the building appear taller. The false front was topped by a bracketed cornice typical of the Italianate style popular at the time. This created the impression that the building was larger and housed more businesses and people, similar to the main commercial streets found in eastern American towns. In front of the original structure there was a wooden sidewalk covered by a wooden roof and hitching posts for horses. It is known exactly what the exterior of the Montgomery building looked like in 1882 from a photograph taken by F. Parker who documented many of the changes taking place in the city during that period.\n\nThe two addresses have undergone many interior and exterior renovations over the years. They have housed drugstores, restaurants, shoemakers, and clothing stores. The building is now occupied by Dave’s Pawn Shop and a clothing store. With the arrival of the automobile and the paving of streets, the wooden sidewalks, post, and roofs were removed and conventional sidewalks were constructed. Today, the wooden facade of the building lies beneath a modern sign but the cornice is clearly visible. 216-218 S. El Paso Street is a classic example of western architecture from the boom era of the 1880s.\n\nSituated on one of the past main commercial thoroughfares of the city, it continues to represent part of the rich frontier heritage of El Paso and is one of the few remaining structures from the original commercial district of the Old Western town of El Paso.\n\nThe addresses 216 and 218 S. El Paso St. have remained in continuous use for more than one hundred and twenty years making it the oldest surviving commercial structure in the City of El Paso.\n\n"}
{"id": "24369311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24369311", "title": "Nigel Hollis", "text": "Nigel Hollis\n\nNigel Hollis (born 1958) is an author, analyst, researcher, speaker, and commentator on marketing. He is the author of \"The Global Brand: How to create and develop lasting brand value in the world market\" published by Palgrave Macmillan in 2008, and is the Executive Vice President of market research agency, Millward Brown.\n\nHollis contributed a chapter to Martin Lindstrom's 2005 book \"BRAND Sense\", in which Lindstrom described research that was designed by Hollis and conducted by Millward Brown specifically for the book. Hollis also contributed a comparable chapter to Lindstrom's 2003 book \"BRANDchild\".\n\nDesigned by Rex Briggs, then head of research at \"HotWired\", with the technical support of \"HotWired\" staff including Joshua Grossnickle and Oliver Raskin, \"HotWired\" used some of Millward Brown measurement scales. But the methodology differed significantly from brand tracking, for which Millward Brown was known. Hollis was instrumental in getting \"HotWired\" to work with Millward Brown, and this 1996 landmark study of online advertising, proving that banner ads could have a branding effect before clickthrough is noted as the first study of its kind.\n\nHollis regularly publishes a blog called \"Straight Talk with Nigel Hollis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42923490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42923490", "title": "Online media cooperative", "text": "Online media cooperative\n\nAn online media cooperative is an autonomous association of similar businesses or organizations who voluntarily join together around an online media platform for their mutual and individual benefit. The businesses in an online media cooperative are typically within the same industry ex: drug stores, pet stores, pizza shops and are located within a geographic region or nationally. The online media typically takes the form of a video, video series, or some other creative work that is outside the funding abilities of an individual business. The media elevates or otherwise promotes the core mission of the businesses in the shared industry in a manner that benefits the members of the cooperative individually.\n\nThe platform aspect of the cooperative allows for the unique, individual identification of each member in the cooperative based on some type of geographic location mechanism. This mechanism could be based on physical address, IP address, or proximity/attachment to short-range wireless communication systems such as Apple's iBeacon using mobile telecommunications devices such as cell phones, tablet computers or traditional computer equipment.\n\nThe intent of an online media cooperative is to improve the business environment of local stores and organizations. The disintermediation that the Internet brought about has benefitted consumers and businesses typically at the expense of small local businesses. The cooperative allows hundreds or thousands of these small businesses to join together in an economically affordable way to produce entertaining media that serves as a regional or national outreach program. This online media attracts an audience around the topic/mission and, when it and the overall online media platform is produced properly, creates a concerned and engaged \"viewer\" who is significantly more likely to conduct business with the local cooperative member.\n\n"}
{"id": "8276266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8276266", "title": "Radu Irimescu", "text": "Radu Irimescu\n\nRadu Irimescu (December 9, 1890 – May 1975) was a Romanian businessman, politician, and diplomat.\n\nThe son of an admiral, Irimescu joined the Romanian Navy and, being first in his class, was sent to Germany, as a pre-World War I Romanian-German convention provided. Based in Kiel, he was a cadet in the Imperial German Navy and, again at the head of his class, was appointed a German naval officer, serving two years on a man of war, then being obliged to return to Romania. Admiral von Tirpitz himself held Irimescu in high esteem. However, he became dissatisfied with his career in the Romanian Navy: after cruising the world on a German man of war, commanding a Danube monitor or a Black Sea torpedo boat was not very attractive to him and he left the navy after two years. He was then granted leave to attend courses at the Royal Technical College of Charlottenburg, from where he graduated with excellent marks.\n\nDuring World War I, Major Irimescu served in the Romanian Air Forces and showed great skill as a pilot and as an organizer. He received a degree in engineering from Columbia University in 1920.\n\nAfter the war, Jean Chrissoveloni, a Bucharest banker, tasked Irimescu with organizing the Chrissoveloni Bank in New York City. He ran the bank from 1921 to 1928, successfully closing the branch because he sensed a financial crisis coming and because operating a foreign bank tended to be unprofitable because more burdensome business regulations were placed on such institutions. At the time, it was the only Romanian banking institution in the United States. After it closed on April 1, 1928, Irimescu, formerly agent and manager, stayed on for a time as its representative on Wall Street.\n\nWhen Queen Marie of Romania attended a luncheon in New York on October 22, 1926, Irimescu heaped praise upon his host country: \"It is natural...that Romania should look today to America for good will and cooperation...The wealth and resources of America are stupendous. Her leadership and influence in the affairs of the world are paramount today. Her prosperity is well established and well deserved...Let us...express the wish for the continuous prosperity of the United States of America and that of the entire civilized world.\"\n\nUpon his return to Romania, Irimescu, an independent, was appointed director of the Gas and Electricity Works of Bucharest. In August 1932, he was named Minister of the Air Forces in the Alexandru Vaida-Voevod National Peasants' Party cabinet, with the expectation that he would upgrade and modernize his branch of the military. Additionally, he served as interim Minister of War for a week in August–September 1937, in Gheorghe Tătărescu's National Liberal Party cabinet.\n\nIn 1938 Irimescu was appointed Minister to the United States. This drew some concern from the American Jewish Congress, as he had served in the recent Octavian Goga cabinet, which passed anti-Semitic legislation. Augustine Lonergan, Democratic Party Senator for Connecticut, forwarded these concerns to Secretary of State Cordell Hull. However, Hull reassured him, noting that as an aviation expert, Irimescu had served in all cabinets since that of Vaida-Voevod, regardless of party, and that he himself belonged to no party. He also mentioned that Irimescu had an American wife. The new envoy arrived in the United States with his wife on April 7, 1938, being greeted by a number of Romanians, including his brother Ştefan (1894-1967), active in the community. Upon his arrival he declared, \"As far as I know, there is no anti-Semitism in Romania that deserves any special discussion or notice.\"\n\nAlso in 1938, some three months after Queen Marie died, \"Time\" magazine printed a wry article claiming, for instance, that \"she had long since been forgiven by most Rumanians for her endorsements of face creams, her exuberant U.S. junket, and the fact that in the end most of her dowagerish intrigues gained nothing for Rumania.\" The next month, an offended Irimescu asked in the magazine, \"Has not this great Lady done anything in Her life to justify a favorable comment on your part?\" To his observation that \"De mortuis nil nisi bonum\", \"Time\"'s editors replied: \"De mortuis nil hokum.\"\n\nAs might be expected for an ambassador, Irimescu expressed public support for the royal dictatorship established by King Carol II (\"see National Renaissance Front\"). For instance, in a speech given at a social event on November 26, 1938, he proclaimed that \"the last twenty years of experimentation with the so-called democratic regime has shown that political parties could and would act against public interest\", claiming that the new system was based on an idea \"of organization, of order against chaos, of a regime of social harmony wherein the source of rights is work and one's fulfillment of one's civic obligations, and not the exploitation of the community for personal interest and rapid enrichment.\" He lauded the new constitution adopted in 1938, which he said \"sets up an equilibrium between liberty and authority...regulates the exercise of [civic] rights for the public good...insures...a disciplined liberty\" and \"disposes once and for all of partisan politics and libertine democracy.\" He repeated similar sentiments when the constitution's second anniversary was celebrated on March 3, 1940: \"The entire development of Romania in the last two years is wholly the outcome of the new Constitution.\"\n\nOn April 9, 1943, Irimescu wrote a letter to \"The New York Times\" responding to criticism that Carol Davila, former Romanian Minister to the United States, had levelled against him in that newspaper. Irimescu denied having represented the National Legionary State, claiming that as the King abdicated, he heard a Romanian Radio broadcast from Bucharest that Ion Antonescu had dismissed him; he wrote that he received a telegram from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Romania the next day informing him of his dismissal and giving him until October 15, 1940 to pass on his account books to his successor. He stated that at the same time as his dismissal, all his property in Romania, \"including bank accounts, securities, real estate\" and furniture was confiscated, and that \"Antonescu and his Iron Guard cronies have persecuted me relentlessly.\" As evidence of his \"democratic ideals\" he presented the fact that he became an American citizen in November 1941. Regarding the ongoing war, he opined that \"Only a sincere cooperation of the democracies and Russia can rebuild the world.\"\n\nIrimescu lived the rest of his life in the United States. In 1955, he was working for Floyd Odlum's Atlas Corporation. That January, he attended a Motor Boat Show, buying a chrome-trimmed, 55-m.p.h. Coronado speedboat for about $5,500, ten minutes after the doors opened.\n\n"}
{"id": "19642696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19642696", "title": "Robert Fairfax, 7th Lord Fairfax of Cameron", "text": "Robert Fairfax, 7th Lord Fairfax of Cameron\n\nRobert Fairfax, 7th Lord Fairfax of Cameron MP (1707–1793), was a Scottish peer and politician. He died at Leeds Castle, England, which he inherited from his mother Catherine, daughter of Thomas Culpeper, 2nd Baron Culpeper of Thoresway.\n\nHe was a younger son of Thomas Fairfax, 5th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, and Catherine Colepeper (or Culpeper). Robert gained the rank of major in the service of the 1st Troop of Horse Guards. He held the office of Member of Parliament (MP) for Maidstone from 1740 to 1741 and from 1747 to 1754. He also was the MP for Kent between 1754 and 1768. Robert married Martha Collins, daughter of Anthony Collins, on 25 April 1741. He later married, Dorothy Best, daughter of Mawdisty Best and Elizabeth Fearne, on 15 July 1749.\n\nHis title and immense domain, which he inherited in 1781, consisting of 5,282,000 acres (21,380 km²), was in possession of his elder brother, Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, during the American Revolutionary War, but it was confiscated during the hostilities by the Virginia Act of 1779. Robert Fairfax was awarded ₤13,758 in 1792, by Act of Parliament for the relief of American Loyalists.\n\nRobert died on 15 July 1793 without an heir so the Cameron title was left in abeyance. His cousin, Bryan Fairfax, 8th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, visited London in 1798 and claimed the title (although he never actually used the title once it was granted to him). He lived in the United States where he was a priest of the Episcopal Church, and also a neighbor and friend of George Washington.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3811985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3811985", "title": "Robert Wood Johnson I", "text": "Robert Wood Johnson I\n\nRobert Wood Johnson I (February 20, 1845 – February 7, 1910) was an American industrialist. He was also one of the three brothers who founded Johnson & Johnson.\n\nJohnson was born in Carbondale, Pennsylvania. His father was Sylvester Johnson III, and his mother was Frances Louisa Wood. Johnson grew up with two siblings: James Wood Johnson and Edward Mead Johnson.\n\nIn 1861, Johnson accepted an apprenticeship in Poughkeepsie, New York from his uncle James Wood to work for the apothecary of Wood & Tittmer. This was a method to keep him from fighting in the Civil War. However, this was to become his training for a lifelong career. He later left Wood & Tittmer in 1864, to work in New York City for Roushton & Aspinwall.\n\nWhile working for Rouston & Aspinwall, Johnson met George J. Seabury and they decided to leave the firm and go into business together under the name of Seabury & Johnson. Both men were interested in Joseph Lister's discovery of the implications of sterile surgery and tried to make products that would assist in the operating room. Johnson worked 12-hour days to try to invent aseptic surgical equipment. By 1878, the firm was making $10,000 a month (or in 2017 dollars $258,046.31.)\n\nHowever, Seabury and Johnson could not agree on how to distribute the profits of the firm. Seabury also did not approve of having Johnson's brother, James Wood Johnson, in the firm. In 1880, Johnson sold his shares to Seabury, and agreed to not go into the medical business for ten years.\n\nMeanwhile, James Wood Johnson and Edward Mead Johnson started a family business called Johnson & Johnson. However, the firm was struggling to stay afloat, as it didn't have enough capital for a startup company. While the two brothers were going at it alone, Seabury was unable to pay RWJ the monthly payments that had been agreed upon when Johnson left the partnership. Seabury agreed to let Johnson re-enter the medical industry if Seabury could cease making the monthly payments. Johnson agreed, and joined his brothers' firm, providing the capital for a fresh start.\n\nThe new partnership gave Johnson half of the company's shares in return for management of the company. His brothers would receive thirty percent of the company. Johnson worked all hours of the day, going back and forth from the factory in New Brunswick, New Jersey to the office in New York, and by early 1888, Johnson & Johnson was making $25,000 a month.\n\nDr. Frederick Barnett Kilmer owned a local pharmacy in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Johnson met Kilmer in early 1887, and developed a lifelong friendship. After meeting Johnson, Kilmer became more involved in Johnson & Johnson. He eventually became an employee and he would introduce one of the first medical research laboratories.\n\nKilmer was responsible for making many of the innovations in sterilized dressings. The first marketing items Kilmer introduced were medical manuals, guides for how to react when injured on board trains, such as when feet are squashed or when legs are broken at train stations or depots.\n\nIn time, Kilmer would influence most of America with his new products. By the late 19th century, railroads had taken most of the nation by storm. Americans were traveling more and farther than ever. To address the medical needs of travelers, Kilmer decided to introduce first-aid kits. The Red Cross symbol became as well known as the bald eagle. Soon, people believed that the first-aid kits were as important to their daily lives as railroads, light bulbs, and family. It became an American way of life to grab a first-aid kit when in need of help.\n\nIn 1890, Kilmer received a letter from a colleague asking for advice on treating a skin irritation on one of his patients. The patient had used medicated plasters and it was assumed that the plaster caused the irritation. Kilmer sent him a small tin of Italian talc. With the success of this treatment, Johnson & Johnson started including containers of talc with its plasters.\n\nIn 1880, Johnson married Ellen Cutler. They had one child: Roberta Johnson.\n\nJohnson later married Evangeline Brewster Armstrong. They had three children: John Seward Johnson I, Robert Wood Johnson II, and Evangeline Johnson. His daughter Evangeline married composer Leopold Stokowski by whom she had two children.\n\nIn 1910, Johnson died of chronic renal insufficiency (Bright's disease) at the age of 64.\n\n"}
{"id": "2091870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2091870", "title": "Schering AG", "text": "Schering AG\n\nSchering AG was a research-centered German multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered in Wedding, Berlin, which operated as an independent company from 1851 to 2006. In 2006 it was bought by Bayer AG and merged to form the Bayer subsidiary Bayer Schering Pharma AG, which was renamed Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals in 2011. Schering was listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and had 26,000 employees as of 2004.\n\nThe American pharmaceutical company Schering-Plough, formerly the Schering Corporation, was originally the US subsidiary of Schering AG, and merged with Merck & Co. in 2009.\n\nIn 1851, Ernst Christian Friedrich Schering opened the \"Grüne Apotheke\" (Green Pharmacy) in Berlin's \"Chausseestraße\", and in 1871 converted into the name \"Chemische Fabrik auf Actien\" (formerly E. Schering). This date is the company's date of incorporation.\n\nThe company grew strongly in the following years. In 1913, the company employed 935 workers, 112 master craftsman and 180 office employees. In addition to the Berlin site, two factories were also located in Russia (Moscow and Wydriza) with over 1,000 workers and a plant in Great Britain. Turnover at the time was about 10 million German gold mark, created with the production of photochemicals and pharmaceuticals. Important products produced were salicylic acid, the antigout preparation atophan, various sleeping and disinfecting agents.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1920s, Schering took over the wash and colouring company located in the Berlin district \"Köpenick\". In 1922, the management acquired the majority of shares in the chemical factory \"Chemischen Fabrik auf Actien\" (formerly E. Schering) from the Upper Silesian .\n\nIn 1937, the companies \"Kokswerke und Chemische Fabriken AG\" and the \"Chemischen Fabrik auf Actien\" amalgamated with the sister company \"Schering-Kahlbaum AG\" and, on the same day, renamed on account of the internationally respected name \"Schering\" to \"Schering Aktiengesellschaft\". The pharmaceutical business thus became part of a mining and chemical group, which also produced radiographic products and pesticide products.\n\nSchering was the manufacturer of Primodos.\n\nIn March 2006, Merck KGaA announced a €14.6bn bid for Schering, which by 2006 had annual gross revenue of around €5 billion and employed about 26,000 people in 140 subsidiaries worldwide. Bayer responded with a white knight bid and in July acquired the majority of shares of Schering for €14.6bn, and in 2007, Bayer took over Schering AG and formed Bayer Schering Pharma. The acquisition of Schering was the largest take-over in Bayer's history, and as of 2015 this was one of the ten biggest pharma mergers of all time.\n\nAt the time of the merger, the company employed more than 26,000 people in 140 subsidiaries worldwide. Schering's annual gross revenue was nearly €5 billion (2003).\n\nSchering AG focused on the business areas of gynaecology, andrology, multiple sclerosis, oncology, and contrast agents. Schering's best-known products are probably its brands of combined oral contraceptive pills. Other key products included the interferon-beta brand Betaferon (Betaseron in North America) and the paramagnetic contrast agent Magnevist.\n\nThe largest German manufacturing facility was located in Bergkamen.\n"}
{"id": "46202049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46202049", "title": "Shaikha Noora bint Khalifa Al Khalifa", "text": "Shaikha Noora bint Khalifa Al Khalifa\n\nShaikha Noora Bint Khalifa Al Khalifa is a Bahraini entrepreneurs and businesswoman , founder of; \n-Medpoint design ,event and consultancy SPC, The eight printing house ,The nine training Center, also the chairman of the news paper 'Bahrain This Week' , karyli tv , Argan perfume bahrain,representing image info Bahrain ,board member in dream gold and Dimond bahrain , Gambit Cunstruction , Gambit foods group, in 2017 she invested in security bussnise cctv united risk management from italy and only info cctv company from Korea . She is a member of the Royal Family of Bahrain, an art enthusiast and a passionate voice for the youth energy of the Middle East.\n\nBorn in Bahrain, Riffa in 1987, residing in Bahrain whilst She concentrate on main aim; building the Medpoint business group .\n\nShe stand to influence the way the youth think and to build the best training in the Middle East, to evolve the economy and the Western world by Bringing event inspiring speakers and working alongside them. Medpoint invests in a broad range of projects: from youth to women, focusing on fashion branding events and marketing for start-ups to big companies, aligning with the developing needs of the region.In 2015 she was elected as the national brand ambassador of the International Non-Olympic University. Khalifa is also the CEO & Chair Woman of Medpoint Design, a design company based in Kingdom of Bahrain.\n\nAl Khalifa completed a bachelor's degree in graphic design at the New York Institute of Technology. She has a master's degree in mass communication and public relations from Al-Ahliya university, Bahrain.\nPHD in Bussnise administrators \n\nAl Khalifa is the national brand ambassador of the International Non-Olympic University which is associated with the international Nobel Peace Prize Recommendation Forum, International Super Cricket Committee, World Sports Karate Federation and World Council for Regular and Distance Education. She is also the CEO & Chair Woman of Bahriani design company Medpoint Design.\n\nShe is a member of a number of organizations including, the Al-Khalida Society, the European Bahraini Society, the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and the society of business women.\n\nAl Khalifa worked as a volunteer lecturer as part of the Enjaz programme with Bahrain University and the Ministry of Education. As the CEO of Medpoint Design she organized the 4th Abaya Exhibition, which was held to support young women and help develop their skills. The exhibition was attended by Princess Sahab bint Abdulla bin Abdulaziz Al Saud who praised the event and thank Al Khalifa for her efforts.\n\nAl Kalifa has won a number of awards including:\n"}
{"id": "871579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=871579", "title": "Shire (pharmaceutical company)", "text": "Shire (pharmaceutical company)\n\nShire Plc is a Jersey-registered, Irish-headquartered global specialty biopharmaceutical company. Originating in the United Kingdom with an operational base in the United States, its brands and products include Vyvanse, Lialda, and Adderall XR. Shire has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. Shire has a secondary listing on NASDAQ.\n\nShire is a global biotechnology company focused on serving people with rare diseases and other highly specialized conditions. The company's products are available in more than 100 countries across core therapeutic areas including Hematology, Immunology, Neuroscience, Lysosomal Storage Disorders, Gastrointestinal / Internal Medicine / Endocrine and Hereditary Angioedema; a growing franchise in Oncology; and an emerging, innovative pipeline in Ophthalmics.\n\nThe original corporate headquarters was located in Basingstoke, Hampshire, England. Main offices are located in Dublin, Ireland, the United States in Cambridge, Massachusetts and Chicago, Illinois and in Zug, Switzerland. In addition, Shire owns a manufacturing site in Lexington, Massachusetts and building a new manufacturing facility in Dublin, Ireland. It announced in November 2013 that it would be further reducing its presence in the UK.\n\nShire was founded in 1986 in the UK by four entrepreneurs: Harry Stratford, Dennis Stephens, Peter Moriarty, and Geoff Hall. Under the management of Rolf Stahel Shire was first listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1996. Shire's initial products were calcium supplements (Calcichew-D) for patients seeking to treat or prevent osteoporosis. In 1997 the company acquired Pharmavene for £105 million in order to access Pharmavene's drug delivery methods. Later in the same year Shire acquired Richwood Pharmaceutical Company, forming Shire-Richwood Inc.\n\nIn 2001 the company acquired Biochem Canada. Shire's next acquisition didn't come until 2005 when it acquired Transkaryotic Therapeutics and two years later - in 2007 - New River Pharmaceuticals Inc, for a then company record of $2.6 billion. With the purchase of New River, Shire gained access and ownership of Vyvanse. A year later the company acquired the German company Jerini, for $521 million. Jerini focused on treating hereditary angioedema.\n\nIn 2008, in reaction to new taxation measures announced by the Labour Party in the treatment of royalties on patents, the company moved its tax domicile to Dublin, Ireland.\n\n2010 saw a change in company strategy, with the company seeking to expand through mergers and acquisitions - culminating in the company becoming one of the most acquisitive in the industry. In 2010 the company acquired Movetis, a Belgian company focusing on gastrointestinal products for $565 million, a year later it acquired regenerative medicine manufacturer Advanced BioHealing. In 2012 the company acquired FerroKin BioSciences for $325 million along with FerroKins lead iron chelator - FBS0701. 2013 saw the company complete its highest number of acquisitions with Lotus Tissue Repair, Inc. (lead compound, ABH001), SARcode Bioscience Inc., with the last being ViroPharma. Shire changed the name of ViroPharma to Shire Viropharma Inc. upon acquisition and on their final day of trading the company was valued at $3.3 billion. At $4.2 billion, ViroPharma set a new company record. In 2014 Shire acquired two rare disease drug companies; Fibrotech with its antifibrotic compounds for $75 million and Lumena, a company researching rare gastro-intestinal and hepatic compounds, for $260 million.\n\nIn 2015, NPS Pharmaceuticals was acquired for $5.2 billion, bringing along its rare disease drugs Gattex and Natpara. On their final day of trading, NPS had a market capitalisation of $4.99 billion. The company also acquired, later in the same year Meritage Pharma for $245 million, Foresight Biotherapeutics for $300 million and Dyax for $6.5 billion. The purchases bolstered Shires Gastro-intestinal and rare disease sectors, with Phase-III ready treatment - Budesonide - for the treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis. As well as expanding the company's pipeline with a late-stage treatment candidate for infectious conjunctivitis with lead candidate FST-100 and increased the companies rare disease catalogue with Dyax’s portfolio of plasma kallikrein inhibitors against hereditary angioedema (led by the approved drug Kalbitor and the Phase III DX-2930). In January 2016, the company made its most significant purchase, with the $32 billion acquisition of Baxalta (Which had been spun-off from Baxter the previous year), creating the largest global biotech company focused solely on rare diseases.\n\nIn April 2018, Shire agreed to sell its oncology business to French pharmaceutical company Servier\nfor £1.7billion.\n\nOn 20 June 2014, Shire rejected a takeover attempt by AbbVie. AbbVie offered £46.11 per share (£27.3 billion or $46.5 billion in total). On 8 July the offer was increased to $51.5 billion. On 18 July, it was announced that AbbVie would acquire Shire for $54.8 billion. On 15 October, news broke suggesting AbbVie was reconsidering their proposed takeover deal due to changes in US \"Tax Inversion\" law and on 16 October AbbVie's board recommended that shareholders vote against the deal. This news sent Shire's share price down over 27%, however AbbVie will be subject to a $1.6 billion break up fee, payable to Shire. On 21 October the merger was called off.\n\nIn April 2018, reported that Takeda Pharmaceutical Company had an approach to acquire Shire. Days later Shire announced they had rejected all three Takeda bids. The first bid valued the business at £41 billion (£28 per Shire shares paid in Takeda shares plus £16 per share in cash), the second £43 billion (£28.75 per Shire shares paid in Takeda shares plus £16.75 per share in cash) and the third £44 billion (£28 per Shire shares paid in Takeda shares plus £17.75 per share in cash). Reuters also reported interest from Allergan however they ruled themselves out a day later. A day later Takeda increased their offer with a fourth bid, to £26 per Shire shares paid in Takeda shares plus £21 per share in cash - giving a total value of £44.3 billion ($62.1 billion). On April 24, Takeda submitted an enhanced fifth bid for the company. On April 25, Shire said that they will recommend the revised £45.8 billion ($64 billion) offer to their shareholders. The enhanced offer included a more generous cash component, with the deal offering £21.76 ($30.33) in cash for each Shire ordinary share. The same day, GlaxoSmithKline ruled out making any form of counter-bid. On 8 May 2018, an agreement was finally reached in which Shire was sold to Takeda in a $62 billion deal.\n\nThe Annual Revenue figures in the following table were drawn from the company's 2015 preliminary results.\n\nIn July 2014, Shire licensed the rights to the investigational Hunter syndrome compound, AGT-182, from ArmaGen for up to $225 million.\n\nThe Annual Revenue figures in the following Table were drawn from the company's 2015 preliminary results.\nAs of March 2016 the CEO is Flemming Ørnskov, who has been the company's chief executive officer since mid-2013. Ginger Gregory as Chief Human Resources Officer, Jeffrey Poulton as CFO, and Philip Vickers as Head of R&D. James Bowling vacated his position as interim CFO in the aftermath of the collapse o the AbbVie inversion deal. The Chair of Shire's Board of Directors is Susan Kilsby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46576543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46576543", "title": "Stephen M. Badger", "text": "Stephen M. Badger\n\nStephen Mills Badger II (born September 18, 1968) is an American businessman and documentary producer.\n\nStephen Mills Badger is a member of the Mars family, His mother is Mars heiress Jacqueline Mars. His father was David H. Badger. His maternal great-grandfather, Franklin Clarence Mars, was the founder of Mars, Incorporated.\n\nBadger serves on the Board of Directors of Mars, Inc, his family business. In 2007, he spoke on behalf of Seeds of Change, a retailer of organic food acquired by Mars, Inc.. In November 2014, he attended the third annual Global Action Summit in Nashville, Tennessee, where he accepted the Global Shared Value Award on behalf of the company.\n\nAdditionally, Badger serves on the Board of Directors of Island Press, a publisher of books on ecology and conservation.\n\nIn 2012-2013, Badger produced \"Muscle Shoals\", a documentary film about FAME Studios and Muscle Shoals Sound Studio in Muscle Shoals, Alabama.\n\nHe resides in Santa Fe, New Mexico.\n"}
{"id": "32251718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32251718", "title": "Suat Günsel", "text": "Suat Günsel\n\nSuat İrfan Günsel (born 1 August 1952) is a Turkish Cypriot property developer, businessman and founder and 100% owner of Cyprus's private Near East University. In 2011, Forbes ranked him as the second richest person in Cyprus and the 1,140th richest person in the world with a net worth of $1 billion.\n\nHis father was İrfan Günsel, who died on 6 November 2015.\n\nHe received a bachelor's degree in physics from Middle East Technical University in Ankara, Turkey.\n\nThe majority of his wealth comes from land owned in Cyprus and Turkey.\n\nGünsel built Cyprus's private Near East University (which he owns in its entirety) from 1988, funded by profits from \"his property empire and other business interests\".\n\nGünsel is president of Near East Bank.\n\nGünsel, is married with three children, and lives in Nicosia, Cyprus.\n\nGünsel has received honorary doctorates from the following universities:\n\n\nSome awards and prizes given to Günsel are as follows;\n\n"}
{"id": "25812910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25812910", "title": "Tania de Jong", "text": "Tania de Jong\n\nTania Karen de Jong, , is an Australian soprano, social entrepreneur, business woman, creative innovation catalyst and motivational speaker. She is the co-founder and artistic director of entertainment and event company Music Theatre Australia - MTA Entertainment and Events. She is also the founder and a performer in the musical group Pot-Pourri which has released seven albums, and she has founded several social enterprises. De Jong has performed with the Victoria State Opera and has performed in over 40 countries. De Jong is working on a number of creative projects and released her first solo album \"Heaven on Earth\" in 2015 and released her new album \"Flying Free \"in 2017. She has sung in many languages, including English, Spanish, French, Latin, German, Italian, Russian, Mandarin Chinese, Japanese and Hebrew.\n\nDe Jong was born in Arnhem, The Netherlands, to her Dutch father and Austrian mother; and the family moved to Melbourne, Australia, when de Jong was one year-old. Her grandfather, Karl Duldig, a Polish refugee who escaped the Holocaust, was a Vienna-trained sculptor. Her grandmother, Slawa Duldig also trained as a sculptor in Vienna and invented the world's first modern folding umbrella. Their home in Melbourne's now operates as a museum. De Jong's mother was a Dutch national tennis champion, a Federation Cup player for Australia and a quarter-finalist at Wimbledon.\n\nAged 14, de Jong was advised by a friend not to bother with singing lessons. She finally got up the courage to audition for the chorus of her school's performance of \"Oklahoma\" at age 17 and was cast in the lead role. Interviewed in 2009, she recalled:\nDe Jong graduated from the University of Melbourne with a Bachelor of Law (Honours) and from the Victorian College of the Arts with a Graduate Diploma in Opera and Music Theatre and a Postgraduate Diploma in Music (Opera and Voice). She also attended college in the USA on a tennis scholarship.\n\nIn 1999, de Jong created The Song Room, a not-for-profit organisation dedicated to providing access to music and arts programs in Australian schools and communities. Since 2001, The Song Room has reached over 300,000 disadvantaged children, enhancing their education, personal development and community involvement and engaging them in a passion for creativity and lifelong learning.\n\nIn November 2008, she founded Creativity Australia, a non-profit organisation that delivers programs for employers that are designed to unlock the creativity of their staff and encourage teamwork through workplace choirs and other artistic endeavours. Diversity and well-being are the focus of the With One Voice choir program.\n\n\nIn 2006 de Jong received the Ernst and Young Australian Social Entrepreneur of the Year Award for her work with The Song Room charity. De Jong's other awards include the \"Outstanding Individual Contribution to Australian Culture\" (1998) and the Accessibility Award in The Melbourne Awards (2005). She was a finalist in the Telstra Business Women’s Awards (2001) and studied overseas on a Churchill Fellowship in (1996). She has recently been inducted into the AGSE Entrepreneurs Hall of Fame at Swinburne University. De Jong was named Brainlink Woman of Achievement 2009. She was a runner-up in the Westpac Community Leader Awards in 2013. Creativity Australia was named one of Australia’s top social innovations in Anthill’s Smart 100 for the second year in a row.\n\nDe Jong was appointed a Member of the Order of Australia in 2008 for service to the arts as a performer and entrepreneur and through the establishment and development of music and arts enrichment programs for schools and communities. She was named in \"The Australian Financial Review\" 100 Women of Influence awards in the Arts, Culture and Sport category.\n"}
{"id": "22655608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22655608", "title": "Tharwat Bassily", "text": "Tharwat Bassily\n\nTharwat Bassily \"Ph.D.\", (14 September 1940 – 5 December 2017) was an Egyptian businessman, he graduated from the Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University in 1967, also he was founder and Chairman of the Board of Amoun Pharmaceutical Company S.A.E., one of the leading private pharmaceutical companies in Egypt. He was also the undersecretary of the Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Church, a member of the Shura Council, and the founder of Coptic TV.\n"}
{"id": "17476780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17476780", "title": "The Partners (book)", "text": "The Partners (book)\n\nThe Partners: Inside America's Most Powerful Law Firms (1983) is a bestselling book by James B. Stewart. The book is a product of two years of investigation of the role of prominent law firms in society. The book describes and discusses several famous cases. There have been five editions of the book as of 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36330509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36330509", "title": "Thomas M. Devine", "text": "Thomas M. Devine\n\nThomas M. \"Tom\" Devine (born June 21, 1951) is a lawyer, lobbyist, and advocate for whistleblower rights. Devine is the legal director at the non-profit Government Accountability Project, in Washington, D.C.. Devine joined GAP in 1978 as a second-year law student at Antioch School of Law, and became its legal director in 1979. According to his bio, Devine has assisted more than 5,000 whistleblowers and has helped enact or defend more than 20 major whistleblower laws in the United States and abroad. Currently, Devine is involved with passing the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 through the U.S. Congress.\n\nDevine was raised in a working-class family in Elmwood Park, Ill. His late father was an inspector for a phone company. Devine participated in the debate team in high school and later became the debate team captain in Georgetown University. He enrolled in Antioch Law School in 1977.\n"}
{"id": "41908712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41908712", "title": "Virtual CFO", "text": "Virtual CFO\n\nVirtual CFO (or vCFO for short) stands for virtual chief financial officer. A virtual CFO is an outsourced service provider offering high skill assistance in financial requirements of an organization, just like a chief financial officer does for large organizations. A virtual CFO may be a single person or an entity.\n\nThe mushrooming of the startup ecosystem has generated specialized service providers which fit the requirement of startups. Virtual CFO is one such specialized service provider. Startups normally do not have the resources to hire a full-time CFO. \"There have been studies claiming that among the top issues faced by Indian startup CEOs are hiring financial and legal experts,\" according to a virtual CFO. Startups like to keep fixed costs low and having outsourced service provider provides them the flexibility of choosing services as and when required. A Virtual CFO provides strategic, value add services to a startup which cannot be provided by an accountant. In the United States, VCFO services are typically used by small to medium-businesses with annual sales in excess of $1 million.\n\nIn Singapore, the market is mainly served by SuperCFO, CFOCentre and Excide. SuperCFO and CFOCentre focus on experienced finance individuals that are parachuted into the company. On the other hand, Excide provides virtual CFO services with emphasis on their all-rounded team and technology capabilities. While there are many other accounting firms adopting the term, \"Virtual CFO \", most of them are merely bookkeeping services.\n\nThe primary role of a chief financial officer in any organization is to oversee the financial planning, maintain and report on the financial activities and manage financial risk of the business. A virtual CFO provides the same services but since the common clientele of a Virtual CFO are small businesses and startups, there are certain more services that are expected of them. Services offered by a Virtual CFO often follow the Financial pyramid of needs. In the basic level, a Virtual CFO is expected to be the bookkeeper of the client and has to take responsibility for the accuracy of the account books and interpret the financial information from the accounting data to the client. They make take responsibility for executing or overseeing the reporting process. On the more strategic side, they are the financial and strategic sparring partner from the CEO. Additionally, they are also responsible for suggesting measures to control expenditure and acquire capital at low cost.\n\nSmall companies may need a controller on a weekly or fortnightly basis. Virtual CFOs also offer one-time help with strategic transactions, financial processes, business plans and budgeting.\n\nIn the USA, Virtual CFOs earn between $55 and $250 an hour, as per their level of expertise. Clients are invoiced on an hourly or monthly rate depending on the nature of service. Most firms provide tailor-made services and the service charges vary from client to client This practice is gaining ground in India, with a thriving start-up and SME culture in the country. This sector has discovered new virtual CFO companies in the last three to four years, mainly because the start-ups want to focus in their core areas, leaving the technical job to technical people.\n\nHowever, this practice should be differentiated from finance outsourcing. Finance outsourcing is commonly understood to indicate a trans-national outsourcing process, in which financial management of companies is generally outsourced from Western countries to low-wage group countries, like India, South Africa, Brazil, etc.\n\nvirtualcfo is a registered trademark of VirtualCFO, Inc. and vcfo Holdings, Inc. in the United States and other countries. However, as a generic term \"virtual cfo\" is used by many finance outsourcing firms throughout the world.\n\nThere is currently no official requirement as to the qualifications that a virtual CFO should hold. However, it is generally expected for a virtual CFO to have finance related university degree, professional accountancy qualification and sufficient relevant experience.\n\nIn addition, virtual CFOs can obtain the Qualified Cloud CFO (QCCFO) professional certification provided by the International Association of Qualified Cloud Accountants (IAQCA) that is specifically focused on the knowledge that financial professionals need to deliver their services within the Internet and Cloud environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "15593116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15593116", "title": "Whipsaw strike", "text": "Whipsaw strike\n\nA whipsaw strike (also called a selective strike) is a strike by a trade union against only one or a few employers in an industry or a multi-employer association at a time. The strike is often of a short duration, and usually recurs during the labor dispute or contract negotiations—hence the name \"whipsaw\".\n\nAs unionization spreads in an industry, unions often attempt to encourage employers in that industry to bargain as a group. The goal is to negotiate an industry-wide contract which equalizes pay across employers, forcing businesses to compete on the basis of quality, innovation, and occupational safety and health. This activity is known as multi-employer bargaining. Multi-employer bargaining has been common in the United States and other countries since the 1880s. It is more common in heavily unionized industries such as construction, steelmaking and transportation; where there is high turnover due to the nature of the job (such as construction and longshore operations); and where numerous small employers face a powerful labor union. Although increasingly rare in the private sector in the United Kingdom, multi-employer bargaining remains common in Western Europe (especially in Germany), Scandinavia, Japan, and some South American countries (such as Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay). A few countries, such as Australia and Canada, encourage multi-employer bargaining by law.\n\nEmployers face an economic incentive to break away from the employer bargaining group. If the employer does so and is able to negotiate a contract with lower labor costs, that employer will achieve a significant competitive advantage in the marketplace.\n\nTo discourage employers from breaking away from the bargaining group, unions developed the whipsaw strike. In a whipsaw strike, the union strikes one employer (or just a few employers) in the multi-employer bargaining group. The strike is usually of a short duration (a few days or a week at most). The union strikes employer after employer. Strikes may occur one after another and may overlap, or there may be long lulls between strikes. The same employer may be struck repeatedly, with sometimes as little as 24 hours between strikes.\n\nThe goal of a whipsaw strike may vary. In some cases, the strike is conducted only against an employer the union believes is considering quitting the employer association. In other cases, the job action is conducted against a strong employer who is committed to staying in the employer group. The strike serves as an example to keep other, weaker businesses (which have a greater incentive to leave the employer group) in line. Sometimes, a whipsaw strike is used as a bargaining tool. For example, the strike may be directed at an employer or employers in the group which the union believes are holding up an agreement, or to keep employers off balance in negotiations, weaken the employer group's economic strength, and exercise the union's economic power.\n\nEmployer reactions to whipsaw strikes vary widely. In some countries which ban worker strikes, the whipsaw strike is illegal and employers are able to work with government law enforcement officials to end its use. In countries where the whipsaw strike is permitted, employers often counter this form of strike by locking out all employees who work for the employer association and using strikebreakers to provide temporary or permanent replacements.\n\nFew nations have addressed the use of lockouts during whipsaw strikes, however. In the United States, the Supreme Court has ruled on the legality of the practice. The question before the Court was whether a lockout during a whipsaw strike was an unfair labor practice (ULP) under the National Labor Relations Act and its various amendments. In \"NLRB v. Truck Drivers Local 449 (\"Buffalo Linen Supply Co.\"),\" 353 U.S. 87 (1957), the Court held that such a lockout was not a ULP. The high court further extended this ruling in \"NLRB v. Brown Food Stores,\" 380 U.S. 278 (1965), holding that an employer could engage in a partial lockout of its employees in advance of a whipsaw strike so long as the employer only utilized temporary replacements and locked out all workers (not just those who supported the union).\n\n"}
{"id": "36194578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36194578", "title": "William Denholm Barnetson", "text": "William Denholm Barnetson\n\nWilliam Denholm Barnetson, Baron Barnetson (born 21 March 1917, Edinburgh – 12 March 1981, Westminster, London) was a newspaper proprietor and television executive.\n\nHe was educated at the Royal High School, Edinburgh, and Edinburgh University. Whilst at university aged 19 he set himself up as a freelance reporter on the Spanish Civil War. Returning to university in 1940 he took his MA.\n\nDuring World War II he served as a Major in the Anti-Aircraft Command, a part of the army. After the war he was set the task of reorganising German newspaper and publishing industries in the British occupation zone of Germany. He was responsible for the launch of Die Welt choosing Axel Springer as its publisher.\n\nReturning to Edinburgh from 1948-1961 he worked for the Edinburgh Evening News eventually becoming General Manager.\n\nIn 1962 he was recruited by Harley Drayton as director of United Newspapers becoming chairman in 1966. Within three years he had doubled the size of United acquiring of Yorkshire Post Newspapers and Punch magazine.\n\nHe had directorships of several other organisations and was chairman of Reuters from 1968–79 during which time its turnover rose from £6m to £73m. From 1979 he was chairman of Thames Television. \n\nHe was the son of William Barnetson and Isabella \"Ella\" Grigor Moir. In July 1940 he married Joan Fairley Davidson, daughter of William Fairley Davidson and Agustina Bjarnarson. They had a son and three daughters. \n\nBarnetson was knighted in 1972 and created a life peer on 14 July 1975 as Baron Barnetson, of Crowborough in the County of East Sussex.\n"}
{"id": "1513805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1513805", "title": "William Henry Fitzhugh Lee", "text": "William Henry Fitzhugh Lee\n\nWilliam Henry Fitzhugh Lee (May 31, 1837 – October 15, 1891), known as Rooney Lee (often spelled \"Roony\" among friends and family) or W.H.F. Lee, was the second son of General Robert E. Lee and Mary Anna Custis. He was a planter, a Confederate cavalry General in the American Civil War, and later a Congressman from Virginia.\n\nLee was born at Arlington House in Arlington, Virginia, and named for William Henry Fitzhugh, his mother's uncle. At an early age, his father began to call him Rooney; what prompted him to use this nickname is not known, but it stuck as a way to differentiate him from his cousin Fitzhugh Lee.\n\nRooney Lee attended Harvard University, where he befriended Henry Adams, who wrote about his relationship with Lee in chapter four of his autobiography, \"The Education of Henry Adams.\"\n\nLee followed in his father's footsteps after graduation, entering the United States Army in 1857 as a second lieutenant. He served with the 6th U.S. Infantry under Albert Sidney Johnston, and participated in the Utah War against the Mormons. In 1859, he resigned from the U.S. Army to operate his White House Plantation, on the south shore of the Pamunkey River, in New Kent County, Virginia.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Civil War, Lee was commissioned as a captain in the Confederate Army cavalry and was soon promoted to major. He initially served as a cavalry commander for Brig. Gen. William Loring in the mountains of western Virginia during his father's Western Virginia Campaign. Loring's forces were transferred to the lower Shenandoah Valley and the command of Stonewall Jackson in late 1861, and occupied the town of Romney in early 1862. Lee was soon after assigned to the command of Maj. Gen. J.E.B. Stuart, who was leading the cavalry forces for Joseph E. Johnston's Army of Northern Virginia, in the Peninsula Campaign. After joining Stuart, Rooney Lee's regiment participated in Stuart's first ride-around the Union army, as well as the subsequent Seven Days Battles around Richmond. During this time, Rooney's nearby White House plantation was burned to the ground, and his son Robert died of typhoid fever. \n\nDuring the Northern Virginia Campaign, Rooney played a leading role in Stuart's well-crafted attack on General John Pope's supply base at Catlett's Station on August 22, 1862, capturing a paymaster's safe full of Yankee greenbacks. His cavalry regiment was assigned to the brigade of Brig. Gen. Fitzhugh Lee, his cousin, for the Maryland Campaign. Following the Battle of South Mountain, Lee was knocked unconscious after a horse fell from under him, and was unable to participate in the Battle of Antietam. Upon his recovery, he temporarily commanded Fitzhugh Lee's cavalry brigade in Stuart's Chambersburg Raid; his conduct earning him promotion to Brigadier General. He then commanded the 3rd Brigade of Stuart's Cavalry Division at the Battles of Fredericksburg mere weeks after the death of his infant daughter. During the Battle of Chancellorsville the following year, Lee was detached from Stuart's cavalry to defend against Stoneman's 1863 Raid. \n\nAt the beginning of the Gettysburg Campaign, Lee was shot in the thigh during combat at Brandy Station. He spent the next two weeks recovering at Hickory Hill, Virginia, before being captured by Union forces. As a prisoner of war, he was sent to Fort Monroe for several months, before being shipped to New York, where he was held until returned to the Confederate Army on February 25, 1864, in exchange for Union Brig. Gen. Neal S. Dow. \n\nIn April 1864, Lee was promoted to major general and commanded a division in the Cavalry Corps during the battles of The Wilderness; Todd's Tavern; Spotsylvania Court House; and North Anna in the Overland Campaign. With the death of Jeb Stuart, Rooney Lee's role increased. Lee's cavalry division patrolled the extreme right of the Confederate lines during the Siege of Petersburg, defending against the Wilson-Kautz Raid at Staunton River Bridge, Sappony Church and First Ream's Station. His division was then sent north to briefly aid in the defense of Richmond at the Second Battle of Deep Bottom, before supporting General Wade Hampton III's Beefsteak Raid, and then returning to Petersburg for the Battle of Boydton Plank Road.\n\nBy last year of the war, Rooney Lee had risen to second-in-command of the Confederate cavalry in Virginia; General Hampton having been transferred to South Carolina to raise troops, and Lee's cousin, Fitzhugh, promoted to overall command. Lee's cavalry division screened the Confederate evacuation of Petersburg, notably at the Battle of Namozine Church during the Appomattox Campaign. He surrendered along with his father at Appomattox Court House with only 300 officers and men, one-tenth the size of the command during the Petersburg Campaign.\n\nLee returned to White House Plantation and planting after the war. Nearby, his younger brother Rob lived at Romancoke Plantation across the river in King William County.\n\nAfter their mother died in 1873, Rooney inherited Ravensworth Plantation, the old Fitzhugh family property (near present-day Springfield) in Fairfax County with of land. He moved there with his family from White House.\n\nIn 1875 Rooney was elected to the Virginia Senate, serving until 1878. He was elected as a Democrat to the United States House of Representatives in 1887. He served in the House until his death at Ravensworth in 1891. He is interred in the Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia, with his parents and siblings.\n\nLee married twice, first in 1859 to Charlotte Georgiana Wickham, daughter of George and Charlotte Carter Wickham and a descendant of the attorney John Wickham and his wife. They had two children, Robert Edward Lee, born March 11, 1860 and died June 30, 1862 and Charlotte Carter Lee, born October 19, 1862 and died December 6, 1862. Charlotte Carter Wickham Lee died December 26, 1863.\n\nOn November 28, 1867, he married Mary Tabb Bolling. They had two sons, who both lived to adulthood: Robert Edward Lee III, born February 11, 1869 at Petersburg, and George Bolling Lee, born August 30, 1872 at Lexington.\n\nLee's mother, Mary Anna Randolph Custis, was the only surviving child of George Washington Parke Custis and Mary Lee Fitzhugh. George was the grandson of Martha Dandridge and step-grandson of President George Washington.\nLee was also a descendant of Charles II of England through Lady Charlotte Lee (granddaughter of Barbara Villiers), who married the 4th Baron Baltimore, and possibly, a descendant of George I, through Benedict Swingate Calvert (grandson of Lady Charlotte Lee), the illegitimate son of 5th Baron Baltimore and of an unknown mother, who was supposed to be Melusina von der Schulenburg, illegitimate daughter of the King.\n\n\n\n"}
