{"id": "33576302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33576302", "title": "1997 Coalisland attack", "text": "1997 Coalisland attack\n\nOn the evening of 26 March 1997, the Provisional IRA East Tyrone Brigade launched an improvised grenade attack on the fortified Royal Ulster Constabulary/British Army base in Coalisland, County Tyrone, Northern Ireland. The blast sparked an immediate reaction by an undercover Special Air Service unit, who shot and wounded Gareth Doris, an Irish republican and alleged IRA volunteer. The SAS unit was then surrounded by a crowd of protesters who prevented them approaching Doris or leaving. RUC officers arrived and fired plastic bullets at the crowd, allowing the special forces to leave the area.\n\nCoalisland is a town in County Tyrone that had a tradition of militant republicanism; five residents had been killed by British security forces before the first IRA ceasefire in 1994. In February 1992, four IRA volunteers were killed in a gun battle with the SAS during their escape after a machine gun attack on the RUC/British Army barracks there. Three months later, an IRA bomb attack on a British Army patrol at Cappagh, in which a paratrooper lost his legs, triggered a series of clashes between local residents and British troops on 12 and 17 May. A number of civilians and soldiers were injured, a soldier's backpack radio destroyed and two British weapons stolen. The meleé was followed by a 500-strong protest in the town and bitter exchanges between Republic of Ireland and British officials.\n\nAt 9:40 pm on Wednesday 26 March 1997, a grenade was thrown at the joint British Army/RUC base at Coalisland, blowing a hole in the perimeter fence. The RUC reported that a 1 kg device hit the fence off the ground. Another source claimed that the device was a coffee-jar bomb filled with Semtex. The grenade was thrown or fired by two unidentified men. At the time of the attack, there was an art exhibition at Coalisland Heritage Hall, also known as The Mill, from where the explosion and the gunshots that followed were clearly heard. The incident lasted one to two minutes.\n\nJust one minute after the IRA attack, bypassers heard high-velocity rounds buzzing around them. A number of men, apparently SAS soldiers, got out of civilian vehicles wearing baseball caps with \"Army\" stamped on the front. A first-hand source initially described them as members of the 14 Intelligence Company. The men were firing Browning pistols and Heckler & Koch sub- machine guns. Witnesses said there were eight to ten gunshots, while a republican source claimed that up to 18 rounds were fired. Nineteen-year-old Gareth Doris was shot in the stomach and fell to the ground. Doris was allegedly returning from the local church and was in the company of a priest when he was shot. A local priest, Seamus Rice, was driving out of the church car park when his car was hit by bullets, smashing the windscreen.\nThree minutes after the blast, hundreds of angry residents gathered at the scene and confronted the undercover soldiers. The soldiers fired live rounds at the ground and into the air to keep people back. The crowd kept drawing back and moving forward again until 9:50, when the RUC arrived and began firing plastic bullets at the protesters. Two women were wounded by plastic bullets and the undercover soldiers then fled in unmarked cars, setting off crackers or fireworks at the same time. Sinn Féin councillor Francie Molloy claimed that the protesters forced the SAS to withdraw, saving Doris's life in the process. Witnesses allegedly feared an undercover soldier brandishing a pistol would have killed the wounded Doris with a shot to his head.\n\nAfterward, hundreds of residents were forced to leave their homes as security forces searched the area near the base. This kept tensions high, according to local republican activist Bernadette McAliskey. Two men were later questioned by the RUC about the attack.\n\nThe attack—along with two large bombings the same day in Wilmslow, England—raised concerns that the IRA was trying to influence the upcoming UK general election. Martin McGuinness described the shooting as \"murderous\", while independent councillor Jim Canning said that more than a dozen soldiers \"were threatening to shoot anybody who moved [...] while a young man lay shot on the ground\". Republican sources claimed that this was another case of shoot-to-kill policy by the security forces; Ulster Unionist Party MP Ken Maginnis, however, praised the SAS for their actions.\n\nGareth Doris was admitted to South Tyrone Hospital in Dungannon, where he was arrested after undergoing surgery. He was later transferred to Musgrave Park military hospital in Belfast. Doris was later convicted for involvement in the bombing and sentenced to ten years in jail, before being released in 2000 under the terms of the Good Friday Agreement. Gareth was the cousin of Tony Doris, an IRA member killed in an SAS ambush in the nearby village of Coagh on 3 June 1991 and a cousin of Sinn Fein leader Michelle O'Neill. According to Sinn Féin councillor Brendan Doris, another cousin of Gareth, \"He absolutely denies being involved in terrorist activity of any description\". Amnesty International raised its concerns over the shooting and the fact that no warning was given beforehand.\n\nOn 5 July 1997, on the eve of the 1997 nationalist riots in Northern Ireland, the British Army/RUC base was the scene of another attack, when an IRA volunteer engaged an armoured RUC vehicle with gunfire beside the barracks. One female officer was wounded. The former RUC station at Coalisland was eventually shut in 2006 and sold for private development in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "51392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51392", "title": "2060s", "text": "2060s\n\nThe 2060s (pronounced \"twenty-sixties\") is a decade of the Gregorian calendar that will begin on January 1, 2060, and will end on December 31, 2069.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17164434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17164434", "title": "Agathocles (writers)", "text": "Agathocles (writers)\n\nAgathocles (; fl. 3rd century BC) was a Greek historian who wrote a history of Cyzicus () in the Ionic dialect. He is called by Athenaeus both a Babylonian and a Cyzican. He may originally have come from Babylon, and have settled at Cyzicus. The first and third books are referred to by Athenaeus. The time at which Agathocles lived is unknown, and his work is now lost; but it seems to have been extensively read in antiquity, as it is referred to by Cicero, Pliny, and other ancient writers. Agathocles also spoke of the origin of Rome. The scholiast on Apollonius cites Memoirs () by an Agathocles, who is usually supposed to be the same as the above-mentioned one.\n\nThere are several other writers of the same name, whose works are lost to us but are mentioned by later writers:\n"}
{"id": "142539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142539", "title": "Andrew Lang", "text": "Andrew Lang\n\nAndrew Lang (1844–1912) was a Scottish poet, novelist, literary critic, and contributor to the field of anthropology. He is best known as a collector of folk and fairy tales. The Andrew Lang lectures at the University of St Andrews are named after him.\n\nLang was born on 31 March 1844 in Selkirk. He was the eldest of the eight children born to John Lang, the town clerk of Selkirk, and his wife Jane Plenderleath Sellar, who was the daughter of Patrick Sellar, factor to the first duke of Sutherland. On 17 April 1875, he married Leonora Blanche Alleyne, youngest daughter of C. T. Alleyne of Clifton and Barbados. She was (or should have been) variously credited as author, collaborator, or translator of Lang's Color/Rainbow Fairy Books which he edited.\n\nHe was educated at Selkirk Grammar School, Loretto School, and the Edinburgh Academy, as well as the University of St Andrews and Balliol College, Oxford, where he took a first class in the final classical schools in 1868, becoming a fellow and subsequently honorary fellow of Merton College. He soon made a reputation as one of the most able and versatile writers of the day as a journalist, poet, critic, and historian. In 1906, he was elected FBA.\n\nHe died of angina pectoris on 20 July 1912 at the Tor-na-Coille Hotel in Banchory, Banchory, survived by his wife. He was buried in the cathedral precincts at St Andrews, where a monument can be visited in the south-east corner of the 19th century section.\n\nLang is now chiefly known for his publications on folklore, mythology, and religion. The interest in folklore was from early life; he read John Ferguson McLennan before coming to Oxford, and then was influenced by E. B. Tylor.\n\nThe earliest of his publications is \"Custom and Myth\" (1884). In \"\" (1887) he explained the \"irrational\" elements of mythology as survivals from more primitive forms. Lang's \"Making of Religion\" was heavily influenced by the 18th century idea of the \"noble savage\": in it, he maintained the existence of high spiritual ideas among so-called \"savage\" races, drawing parallels with the contemporary interest in occult phenomena in England. His \"Blue Fairy Book\" (1889) was a beautifully produced and illustrated edition of fairy tales that has become a classic. This was followed by many other collections of fairy tales, collectively known as Andrew Lang's Fairy Books. In the preface of the Lilac Fairy Book he credits his wife with translating and transcribing most of the stories in the collections. Lang examined the origins of totemism in \"Social Origins\" (1903).\n\nLang was one of the founders of \"psychical research\" and his other writings on anthropology include \"The Book of Dreams and Ghosts\" (1897), \"Magic and Religion\" (1901) and \"The Secret of the Totem\" (1905). He served as President of the Society for Psychical Research in 1911.\n\nLang extensively cited nineteenth- and twentieth-century European spiritualism to challenge the idea of his teacher, Tyler, that belief in spirits and animism were inherently irrational. Lang used Tyler's work and his own psychical research in an effort to posit an anthropological critique of materialism.\n\nHe collaborated with S. H. Butcher in a prose translation (1879) of Homer's \"Odyssey\", and with E. Myers and Walter Leaf in a prose version (1883) of the \"Iliad\", both still noted for their archaic but attractive style. He was a Homeric scholar of conservative views. Other works include \"Homer and the Study of Greek\" found in \"Essays in Little\" (1891), \"Homer and the Epic\" (1893); a prose translation of \"The Homeric Hymns\" (1899), with literary and mythological essays in which he draws parallels between Greek myths and other mythologies; \"Homer and his Age\" (1906); and \"Homer and Anthropology\" (1908).\n\nLang's writings on Scottish history are characterised by a scholarly care for detail, a piquant literary style, and a gift for disentangling complicated questions. \"The Mystery of Mary Stuart\" (1901) was a consideration of the fresh light thrown on Mary, Queen of Scots, by the Lennox manuscripts in the University Library, Cambridge, approving of her and criticising her accusers.\n\nHe also wrote monographs on \"The Portraits and Jewels of Mary Stuart\" (1906) and \"James VI and the Gowrie Mystery\" (1902). The somewhat unfavourable view of John Knox presented in his book \"John Knox and the Reformation\" (1905) aroused considerable controversy. He gave new information about the continental career of the Young Pretender in \"Pickle the Spy\" (1897), an account of Alestair Ruadh MacDonnell, whom he identified with Pickle, a notorious Hanoverian spy. This was followed by \"The Companions of Pickle\" (1898) and a monograph on Prince Charles Edward (1900). In 1900 he began a \"History of Scotland from the Roman Occupation\" (1900). \"The Valet's Tragedy\" (1903), which takes its title from an essay on Dumas's \"Man in the Iron Mask\", collects twelve papers on historical mysteries, and \"A Monk of Fife\" (1896) is a fictitious narrative purporting to be written by a young Scot in France in 1429–1431.\n\nLang's earliest publication was a volume of metrical experiments, \"The Ballads and Lyrics of Old France\" (1872), and this was followed at intervals by other volumes of dainty verse, \"Ballades in Blue China\" (1880, enlarged edition, 1888), \"Ballads and Verses Vain\" (1884), selected by Mr Austin Dobson; \"Rhymes à la Mode\" (1884), \"Grass of Parnassus\" (1888), \"Ban and Arrière Ban\" (1894), \"New Collected Rhymes\" (1905).\n\nLang was active as a journalist in various ways, ranging from sparkling \"leaders\" for the \"Daily News\" to miscellaneous articles for the \"Morning Post\", and for many years he was literary editor of \"Longman's Magazine\"; no critic was in more request, whether for occasional articles and introductions to new editions or as editor of dainty reprints.\n\nHe edited \"The Poems and Songs of Robert Burns\" (1896), and was responsible for the \"Life and Letters\" (1897) of JG Lockhart, and \"The Life, Letters and Diaries\" (1890) of Sir Stafford Northcote, 1st Earl of Iddesleigh. Lang discussed literary subjects with the same humour and acidity that marked his criticism of fellow folklorists, in \"Books and Bookmen\" (1886), \"Letters to Dead Authors\" (1886), \"Letters on Literature\" (1889), etc.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLang selected and edited 25 collections of stories that were published annually, beginning with \"The Blue Fairy Book\" in 1889 and ending with \"The Strange Story Book\" in 1913. They are sometimes called Andrew Lang's Fairy Books although the Blue Fairy Book and other \"Coloured Fairy Books\" are only 12 in the series. In this chronological list the Coloured Fairy Books alone are numbered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20416331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20416331", "title": "Azriel Graeber", "text": "Azriel Graeber\n\nAzriel Graeber is a freelance journalist, scholar, PhD and founder of the Jewish Scholarship Society. He is also known under his pen name, \"Azriel Radifker\". He has contributed to several journals, periodicals and newspapers ranging on many topics. His organization which is a branch of his journalistic interests, actively attempts to bridge several sectors of Judaism together.\n\nGraeber, born in 1948, is the second child born to Holocaust survivors. He wrote about his experience as the child of survivors in an essay published in Louis Finkelstein Quarterly (Fall 1978). He describes the sensitivity that he fostered for all victims of oppression under governmental abuses of power.\n\nIn 1974 he was awarded a PhD from Dropsie College in Jewish history for his study on the ability of building a historical narrative of the Jewish people based on questions posed to Jewish law deciders from the 12th century to today. A main focus of his thesis was on the responsa of Rabad of Posquières, later to be the subject of a book by Isadore Twersky of Harvard. He also received a B.Th from Derech Ayson Seminary.\n\nFrom 1999 through 2003 he served as director of The Tri-State Jewish Community Council. He was also on the directors board of the Bal Teshuva Halfway House of New York, and is currently the president of The Jewish Scholarship Society.\n\nGraeber has never retained any formal teaching positions, although he was listed as holder of the Akiba and Sara Gurtner Chair of Jewish Studies at Touro College for the scholastic year of 1992. His absence was due to his contracting an obscure psychological disorder, Capgras syndrome. He regularly submits papers to various Jewish and secular journals for publication.\n\nAfter a trip to Israel in 1997 he authored an essay on the need for the inclusion of Yiddishist principles into the fabric of Orthodox Jewish life. He wrote:\n\nThe article was highly controversial and much debate ensued. The debate within the Jewish community led Graeber to found the Jewish Scholarship Society.\n\nThe Jewish Scholarship Society, also known as (in Yiddish) Der Yiddisher Gelerntkeit Gelzelshaft, according to its mission statement is to \"mesh together Yiddishist principles with an active Jewish lifestyle\". The organizations headquarters in Lawrence, New York houses a vast library. The libraries holdings include several antique items of significant historical importance as well as books ranging on topics from the Social Sciences to biographies on notable Jewish personalities.\n\nIt was founded in 1997 in New York. Its member base now exceeds 4,500, with members from several different countries and backgrounds. All prospective members must provide proof of their Orthodoxy with their application.\n\nGraeber, as freelance journalist and scholar, has written on many topics, mainly within the scope of Jewish studies. He has been published in most Jewish newspapers, as well as on several on-line news sources. He has also been published in secular journals. Subjects of his writing have included graphology, rabbinical history, dangerous animals and several works of fiction. His most recent essay, \"Eybeschutz–Emden Controversy Alive And Well\", appeared this past March.\n\nSeveral notable essays include: \"The Spanish Cholov Yisroel Controversy of 1763 and its effects on the Jews of Barcelona\", \"Slobodka Yeshiva: Myth or Musser\", \"How Hungarian Jews have ruined American Judaism: A Complete History\" and \"West Side vs. East Side: Two communities. One park\".\n\nHis article \"How Hungarian Jews have ruined American Judaism: A Complete History\" won the Rabbi Solomon Schechter Literary Award, and was published in March 1983 in \"Rabbi Louis Finkelstein Quarterly\". Other awards include the annually awarded Chazon Ish Grant for his contribution to the study of the prohibitions involved in Amirah L'Otzmoi.\n\nHe is currently working on his first book, tentatively titled \"The Dewey Decimal System's Jewish Inventors\".\n"}
{"id": "54335614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54335614", "title": "Batu kenong", "text": "Batu kenong\n\nBatu kenongs, also known as stone kenongs, is a type of megalith. They became prevalent sometime between the neolithic and early iron ages as megalithic culture spread to Indonesia. Archeological research of the stones began in the late 19th century, continuing to present day. There is much uncertainty in how they came to Indonesia, but they are believed to have been used to support buildings. \n\nBetu kenongs are upright cylindrical or rounded stones and receive their name from their physical resemblance to the gamelan music instrument, the kenong. They are described as \"cylindrical stones with a knob on top\", and classified into three separate categories: those with a single cylindrical knob, those with two cylindrical knobs, and those with rounded knobs. Excavations have revealed them in patterns of rectangles and circles, which has led archeologists to believe they were used for foundations of structures. Along with their organization, the archeological excavation done by Willems (1938) has continued to support this theory. The excavation found two different purposes for Kenong stones, each used in conjunction to create a foundation. Kenong stones surrounding structures were used to support bamboo stilts in which a bamboo pole would be placed onto the knobs of the stone. Adversely, stones in the center of the construction were used to carry the majority of the house's weight. The stones in the center were supported by a large stone tab, thus the weight was deferred onto it from the kenong stones creating a steady foundation. This, along with the arrangement of stones in a circular or rectangular pattern, helps to solidify their use as building implements.\n\nMegaliths can be seen all over Indonesia, spreading from the East to the West. However, even with such a large distribution historians have yet to be able to exactly pinpoint a time and reason for the introduction of megaliths into the region. Theories suggest the culture started in Asia, Ancient Egypt, or along the Mediterranean. Overall, most contribute the appearance of megaliths to cultural diffusion sometime between the neolithic and early iron ages. \n\nBondowoso, located in the Java region, has attracted much archeological attention for its extensive number of megaliths. 1898 marked the first documentation of the artifacts in the area and led to the kenong stone, along with three other megaliths, first being classified for its distinct characteristics. More excavation and research into the early 1940s generated interest in megaliths in Indonesia, leading to a new wave of investigation by the National Research Centre of Archeology after World War 2. This new research discovered 47 megalithic sites in Bondowoso, 13 of them containing Batu kenongs.\n"}
{"id": "23154309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23154309", "title": "Christian A. R. Christensen", "text": "Christian A. R. Christensen\n\nChristian A. R. Christensen (17 December 1906 – 27 January 1967) was a Norwegian newspaper editor. He is known for his work in the Norwegian resistance movement, as editor of \"Verdens Gang\" and as a historical writer. He also helped shape the Ethical Code of Practice for the Norwegian Press.\n\nHe was born in Solum as a son of merchant Nils Christian Christensen (1872–1957) and his wife Ellen Kristine Reiersen (1883–1953). He was a brother of Nils-Reinhardt Christensen. Following miscellaneous education, he was hired in \"Dagbladet\" in 1926. In 1933 he married Else Marie Østvedt (1906–1982). They lived in Vestre Aker. In 1934 Christensen was hired in the publishing house Aschehoug. He also wrote news analyses for the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation radio. Also, Christiansen was a deputy member of the Liberal Party of Norway national board.\n\nIn 1940, Norway was invaded and occupied by Germany as a part of World War II. Christiansen participated for the Liberal Party in early negotiations with the occupying power, but as Germany seized tighter control in September 1940 Christiansen joined the Norwegian resistance, and acted as a middle man between the Norwegian press and the Home Front. He co-founded the written organ of the Home Front, \"Bulletinen\". A co-founder was Einar Gerhardsen, and editors were Christensen, Olaf Solumsmoen and Olav Larssen. Christensen also wrote news analyses for several illegal newspapers. He was arrested by the Nazi authorities in late February 1941, for \"spying\", and sat for three months at Møllergata 19 and for five days in Grini concentration camp. While at Møllergata 19 he penned the crime novel \"Telefon til myrdede\", issued in 1942. He also continued writing news analyses, which were smuggled out of the prison. Upon release in late May 1942, he continued his work. In 1943 he was arrested for the second time. Via Gjerpen and Larvik he was brought to Grini, and sat there from 19 to 31 August.\n\nAfter the war, some members of the Home Front discussed a restart of the newspaper \"Tidens Tegn\", but this did not go through. Instead a new newspaper with roots in the Home Front was created, with Christensen as editor-in-chief: \"Verdens Gang\". He remained editor-in-chief until his death. From 1953 he co-edited with Oskar Hasselknippe, and he was succeeded by Vegard Sletten. Despite initial hardships, the newspaper grew influent and has been the largest in Norway since 1981. In 1963 it assumed the tabloid format as the first in Norway, reportedly to Christensen's dismay. Christensen also chaired the Norwegian Press Association from 1958 to 1962, and was instrumental in establishing the Rights and Duties of the Editor code in 1953 and for the revision of the Ethical Code of Practice for the Norwegian Press in 1956. This was the first revision since the code's inauguration in 1936.\n\nHe also participated in the non-press sphere after the war; already in 1944 he helped shape the Common Platform (\"Fellesprogrammet\") which was meant to unite political parties in Norway after the war. In May 1945 he supported Paal Berg, head of Hjemmefrontens Ledelse in his endeavors to create a broad, non-partisan coalition. The road was open as the pre-war cabinet Nygaardsvold resigned, but the increasingly popular Communist Party were particularly skeptical to Berg, and the Conservative President of the Storting C. J. Hambro got his way in reconvening the pre-war Parliament of Norway. Berg faced unexpected opposition from this Parliament, and gave up on 20 June. Instead Einar Gerhardsen formed a cabinet, and also won the first free post-war election.\n\nChristensen was a board member of the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs and the Norwegian News Agency. In addition, he continued his writing of historical books. Notable works included \"Fra verdenskrig til verdenskrig\" ('From World War to World War') and \"Okkupasjonsår og etterkrigstid\" ('Occupation Years and Post-war Era'), volumes eight and nine of the series \"Vårt folks historie\" ('Our People's History'), both issued in 1961. He died of a heart attack while on a cruise in 1967, in a hospital in Las Palmas.\n"}
{"id": "2178896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178896", "title": "Clas Theodor Odhner", "text": "Clas Theodor Odhner\n\nClas Jonas Theodor Odhner (June 17, 1836 in Alingsås, Sweden – June 11, 1904 in Stockholm, Sweden) was a Swedish historian, and director of the Swedish National Archives (\"Riksarkivet\").\n\nThe son of a clergyman, Odhner's mother was a sister of Nils Ericson and John Ericsson. Odhner went to school in Skara and matriculated at Uppsala University in 1851, completing the degree of \"filosofie magister\" and becoming a docent of History in 1860. He taught at Lund University from 1865, as professor of history from 1870 until 1887, when he was appointed \"riksarkivarie\", director of the National Archives, a position where he remained until 1901. Odhner was a member of the Second Chamber of the Riksdag 1894-1897. He was elected Member of the Swedish Academy in 1885, and was member of several other learned societies.\n\nOdhner was a productive writer, and the schoolbooks he authored were influential. He was the main mover in the introduction of the new organisation of the archives for government agencies with a number of provincial archives (\"landsarkiv\"), to some extent subordinate to the National Archives.\n\nHe was father of the zoologist and explorer Teodor Odhner. The engineer Willgodt Odhner was the son of his first cousin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2624057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2624057", "title": "Disposable People", "text": "Disposable People\n\nDisposable People: New Slavery in the Global Economy is a book on modern slavery by Kevin Bales, the head of Free the Slaves.\n\nThe book is published by University of California Press. It is currently printed in a revised edition, with its publication date being November 1, 2004, and it has the . The book consists of 298 pages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2117374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2117374", "title": "Durupınar site", "text": "Durupınar site\n\nThe Durupınar site is a large aggregate structure on Mount Tendürek in eastern Turkey. The site is 3 kilometres (2 mi) north of the Iranian border, 16 km (10 mi) southeast of Doğubeyazıt, in the Ağrı Province, and 29 km (18 miles) south of the Greater Mount Ararat summit, at an elevation of 1,966 to 2,004 m (6,449 to 6,575 ft) above sea level.\n\nThe size and shape of the structure has led to its promotion by some believers as the original Noah's Ark, but geologists and even some creationists argue that it is merely a natural formation. The site is near several officially-unnamed peaks, though locals call one of the nearby peaks \"Cudi Dağı\" in Turkish and \"Çîyaye Cûdî\" in Kurdish, which David Fasold linked to Mount Judi ( \"\"), the mountain named in the Quran as the final resting place of Noah's Ark. Some researchers place Mount Judi in another location farther south near the Turkish/Iraqi border.\n\nAccording to local reports, heavy rains combined with three earthquakes exposed the formation from the surrounding mud in May 19, 1948. It was discovered by a Kurdish shepherd named Reshit Sarihan. It was subsequently identified by Turkish Army Captain İlhan Durupınar — for whom it was subsequently named — in a Turkish Air Force aerial photo while on a mapping mission for NATO in October 1959. Durupınar informed the Turkish government of his discovery and a group from the Archeological Research Foundation which included George Vandeman, İlhan Durupınar, and Arthur Brandenberger, professor of photogrammetry, surveyed the site in September 1960. After two days of digging and dynamiting inside the \"boat-shaped\" formation, the expedition members found only soil and rocks. Their official news release concluded that \"there were no visible archaeological remains\" and that this formation \"was a freak of nature and not man-made\".\nThe site was then ignored until 1977, when it was rediscovered and promoted by self-styled archaeologist and amateur explorer Ron Wyatt. Throughout the 1980s, Wyatt repeatedly tried to interest other people in the site, including ark hunter and former astronaut James Irwin and creationist John D. Morris, neither of whom was convinced the structure was the Ark.\n\nIn 1985, Wyatt was joined by David Fasold and geophysicist John Baumgardner for the expedition recounted in Fasold's \"The Ark of Noah\". As soon as Fasold saw the site, he exclaimed that it was a shipwreck. Fasold brought along state-of-the-art ground-penetrating radar equipment and a \"frequency generator\", set it on the wavelength for iron, and searched the formation for internal iron loci (the latter technique was later compared to dowsing by the site's detractors). Fasold and the team states that the ground penetration radar revealed a regular internal structure and measured the length of the formation as , close to the 300 cubits (157 m, 515 ft) of the Noah's Ark in the Bible if the Ancient Egyptian cubit of 20.6 inches (0.52 m) is used. Fasold believed the team found the fossilized remains of the upper deck and that the original reed substructure had disappeared. In the nearby village of Kazan (formerly Arzap), they examined so-called drogue (anchor) stones that they believed were once attached to the ark.\n\nCreationist commentators, such as Andrew Snelling in the Creation Ministries International journal \"Creation\", wrote that \"there are no scientific principles employed\" in the \"so-called frequency generator\" used by Wyatt's team. He called it a \"gadget, which is generally advertised in treasure-hunting magazines, not scientific journals\" with \"brass welding rods being used in essence, as divining rods, similar to the use of a forked stick to search for water.\"\n\nFasold asserted in his 1988 book that locals call one of the peaks near to the Durupinar site al Cudi (Turkish \"Cudi Dagi\", Kurdish \"Çîyaye Cûdî\") and linked this to the Mount Judi named in the Quran as the final resting place of Noah's Ark. The assertion is controversial and not well supported by local toponymy.\n\nAfter a few expeditions to the Durupınar site that included drilling and excavation in the 1990s, Fasold began to have doubts that the Durupınar formation was Noah's ark. He visited the site in September 1994 with Australian geologist Ian Plimer and concluded that the structure was not a boat. He surmised that ancient peoples had erroneously believed the site was the ark. In 1996, Fasold co-wrote a paper with geologist Lorence Collins titled \"Bogus 'Noah's Ark' from Turkey Exposed as a Common Geologic Structure\", which concluded that the boat-shaped formation was a natural stone formation that merely resembled a boat. The same paper pointed out that the \"anchors\" were local volcanic stone. The abstract reads:\nA natural rock structure near Dogubayazit, Turkey, has been misidentified as Noah's Ark. Microscopic studies of a supposed iron bracket show that it is derived from weathered volcanic minerals. Supposed metal-braced walls are natural concentrations of limonite and magnetite in steeply inclined sedimentary layers in the limbs of a doubly plunging syncline. Supposed fossilized gopherwood bark is crinkled metamorphosed peridotite. Fossiliferous limestone, interpreted as cross cutting the syncline, preclude the structure from being Noah's Ark because these supposed \"Flood\" deposits are younger than the \"Ark.\" Anchor stones at Kazan (Arzap) are derived from local andesite and not from Mesopotamia. \n\nIn April 1997, in sworn testimony at an Australian court case, Fasold repeated his doubts and noted that he regarded the claim that Noah's ark had been found as \"absolute BS\".\n\nOthers, such as fellow ark researcher David Allen Deal, reported that before his death, Fasold returned to a belief that the Durupınar site might be the location of the ark. His close Australian friend and biographer June Dawes wrote:\nHe [Fasold] kept repeating that no matter what the experts said, there was too much going for the [Durupınar] site for it to be dismissed. He remained convinced it was the fossilized remains of Noah's Ark.\n\nThe Arzap drogue stones are a number of large standing stones found near the Durupınar site by amateur archaeologist Ron Wyatt with the aid of David Fasold and others. Fasold interpreted the artifacts as drogues, stone weights used to stabilize the Ark in rough seas, because they all have a chamfered hole cut at one end as if to fasten a rope to them, and his reading of the Epic of Gilgamesh, the Babylonian mythical account of the flood, suggested to him that such stones were used.\n\nDrogue stones were the equivalent of a storm anchor on ancient ships. They have been found in the Nile and elsewhere in the Mediterranean area, and like the stones found by Wyatt and Fasold, they are heavy and flat with a hole for tying a line at one end. Their purpose was to create drag in the water or along shallow sandy bottoms: the stone was attached to one end of a boat, and the drag produced would cause the bow or stern to face into the wind and wind-blown waves.\n\nA geological investigation of samples from the stones, published by geologist Lorence Collins in co-authorship with their original discoverer David Fasold, found that they are of local rock and thus could not have been brought from Mesopotamia, the Ark's supposed place of origin. Similar stones found throughout ancient Armenia are recognised as pagan \"holy stones\" converted to Christian use by the addition of crosses and other Christian symbols. Many are found in Christian cemeteries, as these were.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31376228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31376228", "title": "Economic history of the Arab world", "text": "Economic history of the Arab world\n\nEconomic history of the Arab world addresses the history of economic activity in the Arabic-speaking countries stretching from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Arabian Sea in the east, and from the Mediterranean Sea in the north to the Horn of Africa and the Indian Ocean in the southeast from the time of its origins in the Arabian peninsula and spread in the 7th century CE Muslim conquests and since.\n\nThe regions conquered in the Muslim conquest included rich farming regions in the Maghreb, the Nile Valley and the Fertile Crescent. As is true of the world as a whole, agriculture dominated the economy until the modern period, with livestock grazing playing a particularly large role in the Arab world. Significant trade routes included the Silk Road, the spice trade, and the trade in gold, salt, slaves and luxury goods including ivory and feathers out of sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nImportant pre-modern industries included tanning, pottery, and metal work.\n\nThe trade routes ran from all over the Arabian peninsula to north Africa.This made it easier for trade and travel for everyone\n\nAround the 8th century, The Arab people understood the significance of gold and its economic impact. Arabs participated in the gold trade, specifically within the Ghana goldfields near the 9th century. The people of Ghana also participated in the gold trade from its beginning and began to purposefully dominate this trade. North African regions financially expanded as well due to their shipping of gold to various territories. Gold was a commodity to the Arabs near the 8th Century, which Africa would supply. Gold was good for the economic growth of the Arab people. As silver was declining in worth, the access to gold allowed the economic value of silver to be saved.\nMansa Musa, a leader from West Africa, impacted the Arab world with the vast amount of gold he transported to Mecca during a religious pilgrimage. During his trip, he proved extravagant with his gold. Although he is not said to have traded his gold, Mansa Musa proved his wealth to the Meccans by handing out the gold he brought on his trip. Mansa Musa and his people specifically harmed the Cairo economy due to the tremendous amount of gold they spread in the area.\n\nTrade was allowed on the Hajj and often those on it would have to trade along the way in order to finance their lengthy travels. Typically, money was brought along to give to the Bedouin tribes as well as to the holy cities which the pilgrims would journey through. During the Ottoman Empire's control, these goods would be taxed.The level of taxes rose sharply under Hussein. These levels were lowered when Ibn Saud took power. Merchants would also participate in the Hajj as this allowed them to receive protection from the guards who accompanied pilgrims on the Hajj. Their trading in the regions along the pilgrimage often provided numerous economic benefits to those regions. This allowed the merchant caravans to become more successful and helped make them a greater part of the economy of the Arab world. When Hajj travelers returned to their native lands, they would often bring goods with them which would cause shifts in designs, raising prices, as well as bringing back items to sell directly.\n\nThe pilgrims of the Hajj first traveled by Muslim state-sponsored caravans, but these were replaced by European-owned steam ships in the later 19th century, which increased the number of travelers but put the transportation industry of the Hajj in non-Muslim hands. In 1908, the Ottoman Empire built a train system, returning some control of the industry to Muslims.\nIn more recent years, Saudi Arabia has seen an increase in revenue due to the tourism industry during the Hajj. In 1994, the Saudi government emphasized tourism as a way to increase their economy. In 2000 it was estimated that nearly sixty percent of all tourism in Saudi Arabia came for the Hajj or the similar ‘Umrah. Over 40 percent of money spent by tourists being for the Hajj or the ‘Umrah. The increase in the tourism industry during the Hajj has helped to solve the country's large segment of unemployed foreign workers from other countries such as Egypt and India people.\n\nJizyah is what is taken from the People of the Book (people of Abrahamic faith and followers of the books revealed to them) – and from the mushrikeen (people who worship anything apart from the One God), according to some scholars – every year, in return for their being allowed to settle in Muslim lands, and in return for protecting them against those who would commit aggression against them. These people would not be required to pay the obligatory Zakaat (annual tax) that muslims would need to pay.\n\nThe word jizyah comes from the word jazaa’ (recompense). It is as if it is a recompense for allowing them to live in the land and for protecting their lives, property and dependents.\n\nHowever, the exact meaning of the Jizya is debated. It is mentioned in the Qur'an as part of the law, but the interpretation of the law has varied throughout time by the Muslims. Possible interpretations of the Jizya, and execution of these interpretations, have included a collective tribute, a poll tax, and a discriminatory tax. One argument pertaining to the purpose of the Jizya is that it had nothing to do with discrimination, but only helped the government keep tabs on the population, and maintain a structured society. This argument, however, contradicts what is stated in the Qur'an’s verses about the Jizya. These verses give the idea of the Jizya as an act of humiliation and ethnic diversion. The Jizya used to be a tribute required of non-Muslim people under the protection of the Muslims, which gave this lesser group or society, unable to protect themselves from outside Muslim opposition, the option to submit to the Muslim people and come under their protection. In return for this protection, the minority people are required to pay a tribute to the Muslim government. The Jizya often provided a source of financial support for the Muslims to continue their raids and expansion in the form of Jihads.\n\nTrade along the Swahili coast dates back to 1st century C.E. up to 19th century C.E. Though there are not many reliable written records of Trade along the East African coast between 1st and 11th centuries, trade is still occurred between the Indian Ocean coast (Azania) and the rest of the world (India, China and Arabian Countries). Interaction between these areas was assisted by the knowledge of the monsoon winds by traders who traveled the Indian Ocean.\n\nTrade along the Swahili coast that ranged from the 11th century to the 19th century, though already locally established, was greatly influenced by the spread of Islam, which came about from intermarriage between Islamic traders and the local Bantu people.\n\nArabic presence along of the Swahili coast began with the migration of Arabs from Arabia to the East African coast because of demographic and political struggles back in Arabia. Later in the 8th century, trade along the coast was influenced the majority of Muslim visitors to the coast of East Africa. This trade fueled the development of coastal port towns such as Mogadishu, Mombasa, and Kilwa and also the growth of Swahili, a lingua Franca stemming from the interaction between Local Bantu people and Arab immigrants.\n\nOne of the major Arabic influences along the Swahili coast was the arrival of the Omani Arabs. Renowned as great mariners, the Omani traders were well known along the Indian Ocean. The arrival of the Omani Arabs along the east African coast in the late 17th century replaced the Portuguese influence along the Swahili Coast after their defeat at Mombasa. Trade along the Swahili coast increased with the Omani Arabs' domination of the area. The development of Zanzibar between 1804 and 1856 increased the economic development of the Swahili coast due to its role as an importer of ivory and slaves from the African interior, through long-distance trading. The Omani traders then exported slaves and ivory from the East African coast due to a high demand in Europe and India. The availability of slaves made them a suitable source of labor on the growing clove plantations of Zanzibar and Pemba and thus further increased the demand for slaves along the coast, which stimulated long-distance trading within Eastern and Central Africa. Some of these slaves were bought as household slaves in the Swahili Arabs homes.\n\nTrading along the Swahili coast between the Swahili-Arabs and Interior tribes stimulated the development of the Interior African tribes. Because of the expansion of trade within the African interior, African rulers started developing politically with an aim to expand their kingdoms and territories in order to be able to have control of the trade routes and mineral sources within their territories. Due to the interaction between the Swahili-Arab traders and interior African tribes, Islam also spread as a religious language. The reign of the Sultans of Zanzibar between 1804 - 1888 and their dominion of the East African Coast from Somalia to Mozambique greatly influenced trade along the Swahili Coast.\n\nBefore the abolition of slave trade in 1873, when a Proclamation of the prohibition of slave trafficking from the interior to the coast was issued, Tippu Tip was among the best known Swahili-Arab traders. Having set out from Zanzibar in his conquest to obtain Ivory, he defeated Nsama of Trowa and established his own rule in Manyema country in order to control the ivory and slave trade.\n\nA Waqf is a charitable endowment given by Muslims to help benefit their societies, and they had a major role in the economy, the development of cities, and travel. Typically, a Waqf took the form of rulers creating something for the benefit of their people. It required creating something that would be a source of renewable revenue and directing that revenue towards something, be it a specific individual, the community, or the local mosque so long as it brought one closer to God. Schools were also beneficiaries of Waqf due to Islam viewing education as a form of worship. The individual making a Waqf was not expected to benefit except in the spiritual sense. The Waqf was a pivotal part of building infrastructure as it would often lead to an increase in the number of businesses surrounding the endowed institution. Waqfs were also used to protect cities in warfare, such as the Citadel of Qaitbay, which was built to defend Alexandria in the mid-fifteenth century. While controversial, cash was also sometimes used as a form of Waqf with the interest on it supporting the beneficiaries.\n\nIn Egypt, The Mamluks practiced Waqf, seeing it as a way of keeping their property safe from government hands and as a way of transferring the bulk of their wealth to their children, going around the laws that prevented this directly. This became problematic in the 14th century when soldiers in the Egyptian army were rewarded by giving them temporary fiefs. Many of these were turned into Waqfs by their owners however, meaning the Mamluk government could no longer reclaim them for redistribution. This would affect the size of the army. In 1378-79, Barquq argued this was causing harm to the state and used this as a justification for dissolving the agrarian Waqfs. Waqfs also served as a way for the Mamluk converts to Islam to demonstrate their faith by participating in it. It also provided a way for the Mamluk rulers to demonstrate their power and wealth. Waqf would become more popular under the Ottoman rulers in later years.\n\nThe Waqf enables a wealthy founder to insure the economic well-being of his descendants by the mechanism of donating his estate to a waqf or trust for the support of a madrasah. The founder could legally appoint himself and his heirs as professor of law and headmaster, a position that can be passed down through the family in perpetuity and one that had the important function of insuring the ongoing prominence of a man and his descendants while \"sheltering family assets\" from taxation. The Waqf was often used in this way by families to keep money within the immediate family. In the 19th century in Tripoli, Waqf was often used to benefit the nuclear family, excluding the extended family that would have gotten a share of the wealth had the normal inheritance laws been followed. Because of this, the Waqf has been criticized for allowing wealth to be maintained by the few.\n\nSome argue that the waqf contributed to the ossification of science in the Muslim world because the law of waqf \"permitted little deviation form the original founder's stipulations.\"\n\nThe small Muslim states on the Persian Gulf and the coast of the Maghreb were supported by a unique economic model of piracy in which the ruler regularly plundered merchant ships and launched Razzias, raids, the coasts of non-Muslim lands as far off as Ireland and Iceland to capture slaves. The slaves could be profitably sold or chained as slave oarsmen to the pirate galleys, pulling the oars that powered the attacks that captured more slaves. Ship owners or their governments could pay protection money to avoid capture.\n\nWhile Arab practiced participated in the traditional Arab occupation of Razzias, caravan raiding. They led armed men to attack and plunder passing caravans. This economic model remained popular among Muslim tribes for many centuries. Merchants could pay protection money to the caravan raiders.\n\nAnother model of Arab raiding was practiced by armed nomadic Bedouin tribes who attacked settled farmers - Christian in the early centuries, later also Muslim villages. This was a successful and steady income model, especially since the villagers would pay protection money and save the Bedouin the trouble and risk of actual fighting.\n\nThe discovery of large petroleum deposits in the early 20th century revolutionized the economy of much of the region, particularly the states of Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Kuwait, and Qatar surrounding the Persian Gulf, which are among the top oil or gas exporters worldwide. Algeria, Libya, Egypt, Tunisia, and Sudan all have smaller but significant reserves.\n\nEastern Africa, more specifically Sudan, positioned itself for growth through the oil trade. With a sense of possible hope for Sudanese economic profit, Arabs financed manufactory motives in Sudan, expanding products to help industrialize Sudan during the late 20th century. Despite the Arabs placing finances within Sudan territory, this seemed to have caused more issues as Ethiopians swarmed into Sudan, putting Sudan in a financially tough situation.\n\nSouth Africa’s history of oil imports from the Middle East shows a reliance on Iranian oil during the 1970s. How the South African economy fared after South Africa not longer received oil from Iranian authorities is further explained as the authorities in South Africa are said to have taken action regarding this issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "25841054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25841054", "title": "Effects of the Cold War", "text": "Effects of the Cold War\n\nThe Cold War had many effects on society, both today and in the past. Primarily, communism was defeated. In Russia, military spending was cut dramatically and quickly. The effects of this were very large, seeing as the military-industrial sector had previously employed one of every five Soviet adults and its dismantling left hundreds of millions throughout the former Soviet Union unemployed.\n\nAfter Russia embarked on economic reforms in the 1990s, it suffered a financial crisis and a recession more severe than the United States and Germany had experienced during the Great Depression. Russian living standards have worsened overall in the post–Cold War years, although the economy has resumed growth since 1995.\n\nThe legacy of the Cold War continues to influence world affairs. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the post–Cold War world is widely considered as unipolar, with the United States the sole remaining superpower. The Cold War defined the political role of the United States in the post–World War II world: by 1989 the United States held military alliances with 50 countries, and had 1.5 million troops posted abroad in 117 countries. The Cold War also institutionalized a global commitment to huge, permanent peacetime military-industrial complexes and large-scale military funding of science.\n\nMilitary expenditures by the US during the Cold War years were estimated to have been $8 trillion, while nearly 100,000 Americans lost their lives in the Korean War and Vietnam War. Although the loss of life among Soviet soldiers is difficult to estimate, as a share of their gross national product the financial cost for the Soviet Union was far higher than that of the United States.\n\nIn addition to the loss of life by uniformed soldiers, millions died in the superpowers' proxy wars around the globe, most notably in Southeast Asia. Most of the proxy wars and subsidies for local conflicts ended along with the Cold War; the incidence of interstate wars, ethnic wars, revolutionary wars, as well as refugee and displaced persons crises has declined sharply in the post–Cold War years.\n\nThe legacy of Cold War conflict, however, is not always easily erased, as many of the economic and social tensions that were exploited to fuel Cold War competition in parts of the Third World remain acute. The breakdown of state control in a number of areas formerly ruled by Communist governments has produced new civil and ethnic conflicts, particularly in the former Yugoslavia. In Eastern Europe, the end of the Cold War has ushered in an era of economic growth and a large increase in the number of liberal democracies, while in other parts of the world, such as Afghanistan, independence was accompanied by state failure.\n\nMany nuclear legacies can be identified from the Cold War, such as the availability of new technologies for nuclear power and energy, and the use of radiation for improving medical treatment and health. Environmental remediation, industrial production, research science, and technology development have all benefited from the carefully managed application of radiation and other nuclear processes.\n\nOn the other hand, despite the end of the Cold War, military development and spending has continued, particularly in the deployment of nuclear-armed ballistic missiles and defensive systems.\n\nBecause there was no formalized treaty ending the Cold War, the former superpowers have continued to various degrees to maintain and even improve or modify existing nuclear weapons and delivery systems. Moreover, other nations not previously acknowledged as nuclear-weapons states have developed and tested nuclear-explosive devices.\n\nThe risk of nuclear and radiological terrorism by possible sub-national organizations or individuals is now a concern.\n\nThe international nonproliferation regime inherited from the Cold War still provides disincentives and safeguards against national or sub-national access to nuclear materials and facilities. Formal and informal measures and processes have effectively slowed national incentives and the tempo of international nuclear-weapons proliferation.\n\nNumerous and beneficial uses of nuclear energy have evolved such as the use of nuclear energy to create electricity. Commercial nuclear-reactor operation and construction have persisted, with some notable increase in worldwide energy production. The management of nuclear waste remains somewhat unresolved, depending very much on government policies. However, the quantity of waste produced from nuclear power plants is relatively small, and nuclear waste has been proven to be recyclable. Several countries, including France, Japan, and Finland, currently reprocess nuclear waste.\n\nAs nuclear weapons are becoming surplus to national military interests, they are slowly being dismantled, and in some cases their fissile material is being recycled to fuel civilian nuclear-reactors.\n\nBecause of the military and non-military exploitation of nuclear fission, the Cold War brought forth some significant involuntary exposures to high-level radiation. The atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki caused large-scale destruction through intense blast and fire, as well as acute and lingering radiation. Moreover, as a result of decades of nuclear-weapons production, experimentation, and testing, exposure to radiation above normal background levels occurred to scientists, technicians, military personnel, civilians, and animals. Several significant radiation-related accidents occurred at military and civilian nuclear reactors and facilities, causing direct fatalities, as well as involuntary occupational and public exposures.\n\nBecause numerous diagnostic and epidemiological studies have since been conducted, the medical effects of radiation exposure are now better understood than they were during the Cold War. Comparatively large and involuntary doses and effects from radiation, chemical, and biological agents have been documented. Some exposures were from deliberate human medical experiments and some from residues of highly toxic materials at contaminated sites.\n\nWhile the nuclear facilities and residual products of the Cold War are mostly contained within secure boundaries, that is not necessarily the case for nuclear-propelled submarines that have been sunk at sea.\n\nBecause of potential risk to national and international security, nuclear-weapons states have inherited substantial responsibilities in protecting and stabilizing their nuclear forces.\n\nNot only must nuclear weapons and their delivery systems be secured and protected, other nuclear facilities and devices, such as reactors and propulsion systems, must be safeguarded. An appropriate continuing level of security is necessary through all life-cycle phases, from production to decommissioning. In addition, the entire military nuclear infrastructure requires protection, and that requires a commensurate allocation of funding.\n\nHaving once had widespread overseas nuclear bases and facilities, both the United States and the former Soviet Union have inherited particular responsibilities and costs. Moreover, all nuclear-weapons states had developed not only production and servicing facilities, but also sometimes extensive military staging and storage.\n\nAlthough the Cold War has ended, domestic basing and overseas deployment of nuclear weapons has not ended. Moreover, the nuclear-weapon states remain in various reduced but palpable conditions of defensive alert.\n\nRisks of deliberate, accidental, or unauthorized nuclear devastation remain. Moreover, terrorists and hackers continue to interfere with nuclear stability and confidence. \n\nWorld inventories of weapons-grade fissile materials are substantial, much greater than now needed for military purposes. Until these materials can be demilitarized, they need to be security safeguarded. Many production facilities are yet to be shut down.\n\nIn the meantime, sensitive materials have to be safely and securely stored, pending their conversion to non-military use. In particular, the successor states of the former Soviet Union were generally not in a position to finance and maintain secure safeguards when the Cold War came to such an unprepared and relatively sudden end.\n\nNational security and defense for nuclear-weapons states must be frequently reevaluated. The international arms-control treaty and verification regime inherited from the Cold War is only slowly being updated to reflect the realities of a broken international security environment.\n\nInternal national-security military postures still dominate behavior among sovereign nations. The former superpowers have not formally consummated their stand-down from Cold War military equipoise.\n\nStrategic and tactical nuclear and conventional forces remain at levels comparatively high for a peacetime environment. Localized conflicts and tensions have replaced the former bilateral nuclear confrontation.\n\nAs a lingering result, large inventories of nuclear weapons and facilities remain. Some are being recycled, dismantled, or recovered as valuable substances. As well, some chemical and biological weapons that were developed during the Cold War are still in existence, although many are being demilitarized.\n\nMilitary policies and strategies are slowly being modified to reflect the increasing interval without major confrontation.\n\nBecause of large extant inventories of weapons, fissile materials, and rapid-response delivery systems, a mutual danger coexists for accidental, misjudged, or miscalculated incidents or warfare.\n\nOther Cold War weapons states, are slowly reducing their arsenals. In the meantime, they have not abandoned their dependency on nuclear deterrence, while a few more nations have attempted or succeeded in carrying out nuclear-explosive tests and thus creating their own nuclear deterrence.\n\nDuring the Cold War, an international fabric of arms-control constraint had evolved, much of it carried over as a beneficial heritage with institutional mechanisms for multilateral or international function and verification.\n\nAside from tangible measures of national defense, such as standing military and security forces and hardware, are various institutional structures of government and functionality that have less to do directly with military or security factors, but more to do with underlying public attitudes and risks. These institutional structures and perceptions have had their own challenges and adjustments after the Cold War.\n\nStrong impressions were made and continue to affect national psyche as a result of close brushes with all-out nuclear warfare. In some cases this had resulted in aversion to warfare, in other cases to callousness regarding nuclear threats. Peaceful applications of nuclear energy received a stigma still difficult to exorcize.\n\nHeightened fear of nuclear risk can result in resistance to military draw down. What at one time was fastidious attention regarding nuclear security, secrecy, and safety could deteriorate to lax attitudes.\n\nPublic impressions and insecurities gained during the Cold War could carry over to the peacetime environment. Continuing support for the weapons establishment depends on public support despite diminished threats to national security. Agencies and departments created during a time of crisis no longer need to fill the same role.\n\nIn fact, these same institutional structures can be modified to carry out knowledgeable new missions associated with the cleanup and storage of highly dangerous and toxic materials. Some materials can be converted to non-military uses. Others need to be secured and safely stored almost indefinitely.\n\nAlso, misunderstandings that were prominent during the Cold War now need clarification so that closure can be reached, especially about the ability to demilitarize and peacefully use nuclear materials.\n\nUnderhanded practices in the name of national security are no longer countenanced. The existence of many third-world insurgencies and interventions is now being uncovered as the former cloak of secrecy unveils or their perpetrators confess.\n\nAmong the more specific consequences of the Cold War was a huge fiscal mortgage placed on many domestic economies. Financial obligations included those necessary to avoid further dislocations while the change took place from a wartime footing to a peacetime environment. National military establishments and alliances had to be reconfigured. Highly dependent institutional frameworks were to be restructured, and new obligations were acquired by nations that were once bystanders to the East-West confrontation.\n\nIn the wake of the Cold War, freed or newly founded nations inherited expenses, commitments, and resources for which they were not prepared. The successor states also found themselves with contemporary national-security burdens and substantial environmental contamination legacies, all to be financed while new or revised civilian economies had to be instituted. Since the superpowers carried much of the confrontational burden, both Russia and the United States ended up with substantial economic liabilities.\nAlexander DeVolpi (2009): \"Nuclear Insights: The Cold War Legacy,\" Volume 2: \"Nuclear Threats and Prospects (A Knowledgeable Assessment)\"\n"}
{"id": "33799379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33799379", "title": "Emil Cesar", "text": "Emil Cesar\n\nEmil Cesar (born 16 August 1927) is a Slovenian literary historian, editor, and a former professor at the University of Ljubljana.\n\nEmil Cesar was born on 16 August 1927 in Ljubljana as a son of Jernej Cesar, a locomotive engineer from Kal pri Mirni Peči, and Marija Cesar (née Zupančič). He graduated in 1947 and furthered his studies at the University of Ljubljana, where he graduated in Slovene language and literature in 1953. After his graduation he became a middle school teacher. In 1977 he started lecturing contemporary Slovene literature at the Faculty of Education at the University of Ljubljana. He completed his Ph.D. in 1990.\n\nCesar started publishing literary history articles in 1954. His work focuses on Slovene literature during the period between the two world wars and the literature of Slovene resistance against the Nazi occupation during the Second World War, particularly of Karel Destovnik Kajuh and working class writers. Among his work are also numerous forewords, scientific studies and comments to many a publication of other authors, as well as anthologies from the respective field. From 1982 to 1988 he was the main editor of Obzornik magazine where he emphasised on Slovene outlook of the publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55861978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55861978", "title": "Evelyn O'Callaghan", "text": "Evelyn O'Callaghan\n\nEvelyn O'Callaghan (born 20 September 1954) is a Jamaican academic who is a professor of West Indian literature at the University of West Indies. She was the first Jamaican woman to win a Rhodes Scholarship.\n\nO'Callaghan was born in Nigeria to parents of Irish descent. She moved to Jamaica as a small child, and attended Mount Alvernia High School in Montego Bay. O'Callaghan completed her undergraduate education at Ireland's University College Cork, which her father had attended. She was Jamaica's Rhodes Scholar for 1978, the first woman to be selected for the honour, and subsequently completed a Master of Letters degree at Wolfson College, Oxford. She later completed a doctorate at the University of the West Indies (UWI), with her thesis being supervised by Edward Baugh. O'Callaghan initially worked as a junior lecturer in English literature at the UWI campus in Mona, Jamaica. She transferred to the Cave Hill, Barbados, campus in 1983, and was eventually awarded a full professorship. O'Callaghan is the current dean of the Faculty of Humanities and Education, and has previously served as head of the Department of Language, Linguistics and Literature. She is an editor of the \"Journal of West Indian Literature\", and has written several books about early West Indian women writers.\n\n"}
{"id": "21637936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21637936", "title": "Fernando R. Gómez", "text": "Fernando R. Gómez\n\nFernando Rogelio Gómez Páez (born 1940) is the founder of the Museo de Historia del Mormonismo en Mexico, a museum about the history of restored gospel of Jesus Christ in Mexico. He has also held many regional leadership positions in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He and his co-director Sergio Pagaza gather artifacts and primary documents of Mormon history in Mexico.\n\nGomez has served in several leadership positions in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He was the second president of the church's Mérida México Temple and has also been the president of the Santiago, Chile Missionary Training Center. Gomez has also been the president of the church's México Mérida Mission and a regional representative.\n\nGomez was born in Monterrey, Mexico. Prior to founding the Museo de Historia del Mormonismo en Mexico, Gomez was president of an electronics firm. He has a bachelor's degree in electronical engineering from Brigham Young University (BYU), and has resided in Provo, Utah at various times. It was while he lived in the Philippines that he first came across his aunt's large collection of materials related to the history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Mexico.\n\nGomez is the author of \"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the Lamanite Conventions: From Darkness to Light\". He has given lectures at the David M. Kennedy Center for International Studies at BYU. He also contributed to the English commentary for the 2nd edition of F. Lamond Tullis' book \"Mormons in Mexico\", including essays on \"The States of México and Morelos: Their Contribution during the Re-opening Period of Missionary Work, 1901-03,\" \"Margarito Bautista Valencia,\" \"Francisco Narciso Sandoval: Lamanite Missionary,\" and \"The Third Convention.\"\n\nGomez has more recently relocated his museum to Provo where it is now called Museum of Mormon History of the Americas. The Provo branch of the Museum was opened in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "49062875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49062875", "title": "Fernando de Prado", "text": "Fernando de Prado\n\nFernando de Prado Pardo-Manuel de Villena (born September 1, 1963 in San Sebastian, Guipuzcoa, Spain) is historian, writer and lecturer. He is known for having conceived and promoted the search for the identification of the remains of the writer Miguel de Cervantes.\n\nFernando de Prado was born on September 1, 1963 in the town of San Sebastian in a family of Spanish nobility. His father was Julio de Prado Colon de Carvajal, Conde de la Conquista (Count of the Conquest), brother of Manuel and Diego de Prado and Colon de Carvajal, descendants of Christopher Columbus. His mother, Isabel Pardo-Manuel de Villena Verastegui, is Baroness of Montevillena, belonged to the House of Manuel de Villena, Counts of Via Manuel.\n\nFernando de Prado is the cousin of Borja de Prado Eulate, President of Endesa\n\nHe studied law, history and geography at the Complutense University and the University of San Pablo CEU. He graduated in genealogy, heraldry and nobility by the Marquis de Aviles School of the Association of Graduates in Genealogy, Heraldry and Nobility, of which he later became director. He achieved a master's degree in protocol and business relations by the European Institute of Health and Welfare of Madrid.\n\nIn 1991 he was a member of the scientific committee of inquiry, later its coordinator, for the exhibition \"May 2, 1808\", Exhibition that formed part of the events of Madrid Cultural Capital in 1992. Later he was technical commissioner of the exhibition \"The Universities of Madrid\", also for the Cultural Capital. For several years he worked as a guide for dignitaries and advisor of the Army Museum in Madrid. He also worked as deputy director of Actas Publishing and deputy director of the Trebol distributor. At last he was the director and promoter of the project search and identification of the remains of Miguel de Cervantes. Currently he develops cultural and other cooperation projects with foreign companies in Spain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25975944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25975944", "title": "Frances Karttunen", "text": "Frances Karttunen\n\nFrances Esther Karttunen (born 1942), also known as Frances Ruley Karttunen, is an American academic linguist, historian and author. She received her BA in 1964 from Harvard and her PhD in 1970 from Indiana University. In her linguistics career Karttunen has specialised in the study of Mesoamerican languages such as Mayan but in particular Nahuatl, on which topic she has authored seven books and numerous academic papers. She has also written about endangered languages, linguistic diversity and language translation. Early in her career Karttunen also produced several studies of Finnish phonology and syntax.\n\nAs a historian Karttunen has published research in areas such as historical Mesoamerican literature, colonial-era Aztec and Nahua history, and the social organizations, socio-political concerns and literacy rates of indigenous peoples of Mexico. Karttunen has also written and lectured about the local history of Nantucket.\n\nHer 1976 publication \"Nahuatl in the Middle Years: Language Contact Phenomena in Texts of the Colonial Period,\" with James Lockhart, is a foundational text for the New Philology. She followed this by an insightful article on Nahua literacy, showing how the Mesoamerican tradition of pictorial writing then transitioned to alphabetic writing in Latin letters by local-level notaries in a self-perpetuating tradition. Her 1997 article, \"Rethinking Malinche\", on La Malinche, known in the colonial era as Doña Marina, is a significant revisionist take on the choices that Cortés' cultural translator and consort faced and took.\n\nShe also published \"An Analytical Dictionary of Nahuatl\" and several iterations of a \"Foundation Course in Nahuatl Grammar\", culminating in the 1994 edition (with linguist R. Joe Campbell).\n\nMost of her academic career was spent in association with the University of Texas at Austin, where she held researcher and lecturer positions for over 30 years, until her retirement in 2000 as senior university research scientist at the Linguistics Research Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "22439541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22439541", "title": "General Atomics Avenger", "text": "General Atomics Avenger\n\nThe General Atomics Avenger (formerly Predator C) is a developmental unmanned combat air vehicle built by General Atomics Aeronautical Systems for the U.S. military. Its first flight occurred on 4 April 2009. Unlike the previous MQ-1 Predator and MQ-9 Reaper (Predator B) drones, the Avenger is powered by a turbofan engine, and its design includes stealth features such as internal weapons storage, and an S-shaped exhaust for reduced infrared and radar signatures.\nThe Avenger will support the same weapons as the MQ-9, and carry the Lynx synthetic aperture radar and a version of the F-35 Lightning II's electro-optical targeting system (EOTS), called the Advanced Low-observable Embedded Reconnaissance Targeting (ALERT) system. The Avenger will use the same ground support infrastructure as the MQ-1 and MQ-9, including the ground control station and existing communications networks.\n\nThe first flight of the first prototype Avenger occurred on 4 April 2009 at the company's Grey Butte Field Airport Flight Operations Facility in Palmdale, California. The aircraft took off and landed without any discrepancies and was ready to fly again once refueled. Following flights were performed successfully on 13 and 14 April. The second prototype Avenger performed its first flight on 12 January 2012, meeting all performance objectives and refining the first prototype design to an operational capability. The Tail 2 prototype featured a four-foot longer fuselage to accommodate larger payloads and more fuel. This larger Avenger can carry a larger payload of up to of weapons internally and on its wing hard points.\n\nOn 15 February 2012, the Air Force cancelled its MQ-X program, which was supposed to find an aircraft to replace the MQ-9 Reaper. The Sea Avenger variant is part of the Navy's Unmanned Carrier-Launched Airborne Surveillance and Strike (UCLASS) program. If it is selected by the Navy, the Air Force may consider buying the ground-based version for service.\n\nOn 15 November 2012, the Avenger flew for three hours while being controlled by the General Atomics Advanced Cockpit Ground Control Station (GCS). The Advanced Cockpit GCS has a wrap-around visual display and multi-dimensional moving map to increase situational awareness and reduce pilot workload. The Advanced Cockpit GCS has flown an MQ-1 Predator and is planned to fly an MQ-9 Reaper as part of an Air Force initiative to enable interoperability with all USAF Remote Piloted Aircraft (RPA).\n\nIn July 2013, a third Avenger was scheduled to begin flight testing. Assembly of the fourth Avenger was expected to be finished by spring 2014.\n\nOn 27 October 2016, General Atomics flew an extended-range Avenger featuring wings extended by to . The extended wings add about of fuel totaling , extending endurance from 15 hours to 20 hours but reducing internal payload to . Since its first flight in 2009, the Avenger has completed more than 13,000 flight hours, reaching 11,000 hours in July 2016 and accumulating most of those hours within the past three years.\n\nIn December 2011, it was reported that the Air Force had ordered an Avenger and that it would be deployed to Afghanistan. \"This aircraft will be used as a test asset and will provide a significantly increased weapons and sensors payload capacity on an aircraft that will be able to fly to targets much more rapidly than the MQ-9 [Reaper] UAS,\" the USAF said in an announcement. \"Since it has an internal weapons bay and four hardpoints on each wing it will also allow greater flexibility and will accommodate a large selection of next generation sensor and weapons payloads.\" The aircraft ordered was the original Tail 1 prototype version. This announcement sparked rumors that the aircraft would be deployed to monitor neighboring Iran and Pakistan. These allegations were made because the Avenger is stealthy, while the battlespace over Afghanistan is free of radar guided missiles, as well as any other anti-aircraft weapons. The announcement also came two weeks after the Iran-US RQ-170 incident. The Air Force responded by clarifying that the purchase was initiated in July of that year, well before the incident. However, the Air Force later clarified that the Avenger was being purchased only as a test asset, and that it was not being sent to Afghanistan. Discrepancies in the solicitation are believed to have caused the misinterpretation. After testing, the Air Force decided that the Avenger version they evaluated offered only modest improvements over the MQ-9 in terms of speed, payload, and reduced signature, and didn't meet survivability and reliability requirements to survive in contested environments needed to warrant buying a new aircraft of the type.\n\nWith the drawdown of the War in Afghanistan, the U.S. may lose airbases inside the country that are necessary for striking targets in neighboring Pakistan. Plans are being made to relocate drone bases to other countries in Central Asia to avoid needing U.S. military personnel to protect their bases in Afghanistan. Due to the longer distances from potential targets, General Atomics has pitched the Avenger to the Central Intelligence Agency as a better drone for the mission. The jet-powered Avenger can fly from its operating base and stay airborne for 18 hours.\n\nOn 26 October 2016, the General Atomics vice president revealed that the Avenger was used to conduct a leaflet drop in Syria.\n\nGeneral Atomics has offered the Predator C Avenger to Canada as a contender for its Joint Unmanned Surveillance and Target Acquisition System (JUSTAS) armed UAV project. In 2016, the JUSTAS project was prioritized by the Royal Canadian Air Force and Liberal government. The RCAF has requested that the drones be armed, therefore making the General Atomics Avenger the only suitable contender as Northrop Grumman's RQ-4 'Arctic Hawk' is unarmed.\n\nOn 22 September 2015, the U.S. stated they backed India's membership in the Missile Technology Control Regime, which would enable them to buy armed drones. Two days later, the Indian Air Force sent a letter to General Atomics saying it wanted to purchase the Avenger.\n\nAs of 17 August 2017, General Atomics Aeronautical Systems (GA-ASI) is in the early stages of negotiating the potential sale of as many as 90 Predator C Avenger remotely piloted aircraft to an unidentified international customer. The renewed international interest is believed to be led by India, which has requested access to the capability as a potential follow-on to the planned acquisition of as many as 22 GA-ASI MQ-9B Sea Guardian UAVs and which wanted to acquire 100 Avengers for its air force.\n\nOn 3 May 2010, GA-ASI introduced Sea Avenger, a carrier-based derivative of the Predator C Avenger UAS, intended to fulfill the U.S. Navy's need for an Unmanned Carrier-Launched Airborne Surveillance and Strike (UCLASS). The Sea Avenger included a retractable electro-optical/infrared sensor, internal weapons bay, and folding wings. The aircraft's structure was designed with the flexibility to accommodate carrier suitable landing gear, tailhook, drag devices, and other provisions for carrier operations.\n\nIn April 2014, General Atomics displayed images of the Sea Avenger at the Navy League Sea Air and Space exposition. As requirements for the UCLASS program were altered from a high-end strike aircraft to an ISR machine operating in permissive environments, the Sea Avenger was modified accordingly. It appeared to have four external hardpoints and a small weapons bay, a wing-mounted buddy-refueling store to perform as an aerial tanker, and a larger airframe with a larger engine. If Navy requirements favored a UAV optimized for permissive ISR over broadband stealth, the Sea Avenger would better meet them, as it was originally pitched as having a reduced signature to be \"stealthier\" than other aircraft. Sea Avenger stealth capabilities seemed to be limited to higher frequencies like C, X, and Ku bands, instead of broadband stealth effective against low-frequency radar bands like VHF and UHF.\n\nIn October 2017, General Atomics released images of its submission for the Navy's MQ-25 Stingray, an unmanned aerial tanker that formed out of the UCLASS effort. The aircraft is an Avenger-based wing-body-tail design with a standard D-704 buddy tank refueling system that has an electro-optical ball like the Predator and Reaper, landing gear that pulls into the fuselage, and a system for maneuvering around the flight deck using gestures from the flight crew. Though specifics are not known, the basic requirements will have the Stingray deliver about of fuel from the aircraft carrier to increase the F/A-18 Super Hornet's combat radius from . GA-ASI's design is larger than the Sea Avenger and is powered by the Pratt & Whitney PW815 high-bypass turbofan, the same engine used on the Gulfstream G600. Generating of thrust, it is four times more powerful than the Predator C's PW545B turbofan, and the most powerful engine used by any Stingray competitor. In addition to structural reinforcements and additional systems for carrier operations, the aircraft is fitted with the same landing gear and arresting hook as the Super Hornet and has space available for future growth to perform ISR and strike missions; it would be able to fuel four to six aircraft.\n\nThe MQ-25 contract was awarded to Boeing in August 2018.\n\nOn 27 October 2016, General Atomics Aeronautical Systems, Inc. (GA-ASI) conducted the maiden flight of the Avenger ER. GA-ASI extended the wingspan of the Avenger ER by to , and enlarged its fuel capacity by to compared to previous specifications. The aircraft carries up to in its internal payload bay, less than previously described. The modifications extend its endurance from the original 15 hours to 20 hours. The Avenger ER utilizes a modified fuselage design (completed in 2012) extended by four feet (to ) to accommodate larger payloads and more fuel. Earlier in 2016, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration granted GA-ASI an experimental certificate that allows it to fly the Avenger in the National Airspace System. From 24–25 January 2018, an Avenger ER set a new endurance record of 23.4 continuous hours, exceeding the 20 hour flight test goal and reflecting a 10-hour improvement over the baseline Predator C Avenger. The Avenger ER also has an increased maximum gross takeoff weight (MGTOW) of using a co-cured composite center wing and heavyweight landing gear as well as a dual redundant, light weight brake control capability using a lightweight Hybrid Linear anti-lock brake system.\n\n"}
{"id": "11933037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11933037", "title": "Glossary of notaphily", "text": "Glossary of notaphily\n\nThis page is a glossary of notaphily. Notaphily is the study of paper money or banknotes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2654666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2654666", "title": "Gun culture in the United States", "text": "Gun culture in the United States\n\nThe term gun culture in the United States encompasses the behaviors, attitudes, and beliefs about firearms and their usage by civilians. Gun ownership in the United States is constitutionally protected by the United States Bill of Rights. Firearms are widely used in the United States of America for self-defense, hunting, and recreational uses, such as target shooting.\nGun politics in the United States tends to be polarized between advocates of gun rights, often conservative, and those who support stricter gun control, often liberal. \nThe gun culture of the United States can be considered unique among developed countries in terms of the large number of firearms owned by civilians, generally permissive regulations, and high levels of gun violence.\n\nAmerican attitudes on gun ownership date back to the American Revolutionary War, and find an origin also in the hunting/sporting ethos, and the militia/frontier ethos that draw from the country's early history.\nThe American hunting/sporting passion comes from a time when the United States was an agrarian, subsistence nation where hunting was a profession for some, an auxiliary source of food for some settlers, and also a deterrence to animal predators. A connection between shooting skills and survival among rural American men was in many cases a necessity and a 'rite of passage' for those entering manhood. Today, hunting survives as a central sentimental component of a gun culture as a way to control animal populations across the country, regardless of modern trends away from subsistence hunting and rural living.\n\nThe militia/frontiersman spirit derives from an early American dependence on arms to protect themselves from foreign armies and hostile Native Americans. Survival depended upon everyone being capable of using a weapon. Prior to the American Revolution there was neither budget nor manpower nor government desire to maintain a full-time army. Therefore, the armed citizen-soldier carried the responsibility. Service in militia, including providing one's own ammunition and weapons, was mandatory for all men—just as registering for military service upon turning eighteen is today. Yet, as early as the 1790s, the mandatory universal militia duty gave way to voluntary militia units and a reliance on a regular army. Throughout the 19th century the institution of the civilian militia began to decline.\n\nClosely related to the militia tradition was the frontier tradition with the need for a means of self-protection closely associated with the nineteenth century westward expansion and the American frontier. There remains a powerful central elevation of the gun associated with the hunting/sporting and militia/frontier ethos among the American Gun Culture. Though it has not been a necessary part of daily survival for over a century, generations of Americans have continued to embrace and glorify it as a living inheritance—a permanent element of the nation's style and culture. In popular literature, frontier adventure was most famously told by James Fenimore Cooper, who is credited by Petri Liukkonen with creating the archetype of an 18th-century frontiersman through such novels as \"The Last of the Mohicans\" (1826) and \"The Deerslayer\" (1840).\n\nIn the late 19th century, cowboy and \"Wild West\" imagery entered the collective imagination. The first American female superstar, Annie Oakley, was a sharpshooter who toured the country starting in 1885, performing in Buffalo Bill's Wild West show. The cowboy archetype of individualist hero was established largely by Owen Wister in stories and novels, most notably \"The Virginian\" (1902), following close on the heels of Theodore Roosevelt's \"The Winning of the West\" (1889–1895), a history of the early frontier. Cowboys were also popularized in turn of the 20th century cinema, notably through such early classics as \"The Great Train Robbery\" (1903) and \"A California Hold Up\" (1906)—the most commercially successful film of the pre-nickelodeon era.\n\nGangster films began appearing as early as 1910, but became popular only with the advent of sound in film in the 1930s. The genre was boosted by the events of the prohibition era, such as bootlegging and the St. Valentine's Day Massacre of 1929, the existence of real-life gangsters (e.g., Al Capone) and the rise of contemporary organized crime and escalation of urban violence. These movies flaunted the archetypal exploits of \"swaggering, cruel, wily, tough, and law-defying bootleggers and urban gangsters.\"\n\nWith the arrival of World War II, Hollywood produced many morale boosting movies, patriotic rallying cries that affirmed a sense of national purpose. The image of the lone cowboy was replaced in these combat films by stories that emphasized group efforts and the value of individual sacrifices for a larger cause, often featuring a group of men from diverse ethnic backgrounds who were thrown together, tested on the battlefield, and molded into a dedicated fighting unit.\n\nGuns frequently accompanied famous heroes and villains in late 20th-century American films, from the outlaws of \"Bonnie and Clyde\" (1967) and \"The Godfather\" (1972), to the fictitious law and order avengers like \"Dirty Harry\" (1971) and \"RoboCop\" (1987). In the 1970s, films portrayed fictitious and exaggerated characters, madmen ostensibly produced by the Vietnam War in films like \"Taxi Driver\" (1976) and \"Apocalypse Now\" (1979), while other films told stories of fictitious veterans who were supposedly victims of the war and in need of rehabilitation (\"Coming Home\" and \"The Deer Hunter\", both 1978). Many action films continue to celebrate the gun toting hero in fantastical settings. At the same time, the negative role of the gun in fictionalized modern urban violence has been explored in films like \"Boyz n the Hood\" (1991) and \"Menace 2 Society\" (1993).\n\nGun culture and its effects have been at the center of major debates in the US's public sphere for decades. In his 1970 article \"America as a Gun Culture,\" historian Richard Hofstadter used the phrase \"gun culture\" to describe America's long-held affection for guns, embracing and celebrating the association of guns and America's heritage. He also noted that the US \"is the only industrial nation in which the possession of rifles, shotguns, and handguns is lawfully prevalent among large numbers of its population\". In 1995, political scientist Robert Spitzer said that the modern American gun culture is founded on three factors: the proliferation of firearms since the earliest days of the nation, the connection between personal ownership of weapons and the country's revolutionary and frontier history, and the cultural mythology regarding the gun in the frontier and in modern life. More recently, in 2008, the US Supreme Court affirmed that considerable freedom for individuals to possess firearms is guaranteed by the Second Amendment.\n\nThe terms that gun rights and gun control advocates use to refer to opponents are part of the larger topic of gun politics.\n\nThe term \"gun nut\" has been used to describe firearms enthusiasts who are deeply involved with the gun culture. It is regarded as a pejorative stereotype cast upon gun owners by anti-gun advocates as a means of implying that they are fanatical, exhibit abnormal behavior, or are a threat to the safety of others. Some gun owners embrace the term affectionately.\n\nHoplophobia is a political term used to describe an \"irrational aversion to firearms, as opposed to justified apprehension about those who may wield them.\"\n\nThe US attitude to guns generally perplexes those in other developed countries, who cannot understand the unusual permissiveness of American gun laws, and why the American public does not push for harsher gun control measures in the face of mass shootings. Critics contrast the US reaction to terrorism given how few deaths it causes, with their high death rates from non-terror related gun crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58371658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58371658", "title": "Hasan Beg Rumlu", "text": "Hasan Beg Rumlu\n\nHasan Beg Rumlu (, born 1530 or 1531) was a 16th-century Safavid military officer and historian. A cavalryman of the \"qurchi\" corps, he is principally known for his chronicle of Safavid history; the \"Aḥsān al-tawārikh\".\n\nMost information about Hasan Beg's life stems from his own work, the \"Aḥsān al-tawārikh\", which he completed in 1578. He was born in Qom, a member of the Turkoman Rumlu tribe, and the grandson of Amir Soltan Rumlu, a prominent Qizilbash lord who served during the reign of King (\"Shah\") Ismail I (). Hasan Beg's Qizilbash background makes him \"somewhat unique in the annals of Safavid historiography\". After his grandfather's death in 1539 or 1540, Hasan Beg found himself unable to gain command over his grandfather's army, because, according to his own explanation, \"he was busy with his unpleasant duties as a \"qurchi\"\". Though a military officer, Hasan Beg \"received the sort of training that was typical of a Persian administrator and bureaucrat\". For example, among other subjects he studied works on logic as well as the art of calligraphy. \n\nIn 1541–1542, Hasan Beg accompanied King Tahmasp I (1524–1576) on an expedition to Dezful, and from then he \"was with the royal camp in all its journeys, and saw most events with his own eyes, thus becoming an eyewitness to most of the subsequent military events that he described\". In 1546–1547, some five years after the Dezful campaign, Hasan Beg fought in Tahmasp I's Georgian campaigns. The last military episode in which Hasan Beg reports his own involvement was Tahmasp I's battle against the Ardalan Kurds in 1550. \n\nThough Hasan Beg does not mention his involvement in succession matters after the death of Tahmasp I, contemporary author Abd-ol-Hossein Nava'i suggests that Hasan Beg sided with the other Rumlu's, who sought to install Prince Ismail Mirza (later known regnally as Ismail II; 1576–1577) on the throne and who were adversaries of the pro-Haydar Mirza camp. Nava'i suggests that Hasan Beg may have been part of the Rumlu \"qurchis\" who took part in the murder of Haydar Mirza. When Ismail II died in 1577, Hasan Beg became part of the royal retinue of his successor, Mohammad Khodabanda (1578–1587). \n\nHasan Beg's \"most enduring legacy is historiographical\". Later Safavid historians (e.g. Iskander Beg Munshi) used material from Hasan Beg's \"Aḥsān al-tawārikh\" in the sections of their works related to the rule of king Tahmasp I. Hasan Beg's work was used by Fazli Isfahani Khuzani for his \"Afżal al-tawārikh\" and also survives in \"a very late cluster of mostly anonymous semi-fictional accounts of early Safavid history such as the \"ʿĀlamārā-ye Shah Esmāʿil\"\". Later historians also quoted material from Hasan Beg's work, even though they did not mention Hasan Beg by name.\n\n"}
{"id": "54480633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54480633", "title": "Institute for the History and Theory of Architecture", "text": "Institute for the History and Theory of Architecture\n\nThe Institute for the History and Theory of Architecture (gta) is a teaching and research institute at the Department of Architecture of ETH Zurich, situated on the ETH Zurich’s Hönggerberg Campus site.\n\nThe Institute for the History and Theory of Architecture (gta) was founded on 1 January 1967 as a research body at the Architecture Department of ETH Zurich. . The opening symposium was held on 23 June 1967. .\n\nSince its beginnings in 1967, the past and the present, theory and practice, have been the cornerstones and reference framework for the work undertaken at the Institute for the History and Theory of Architecture (gta). Besides teaching activities in the fields of the history of art and architecture, architectural theory and urban design, the institute’s core focus since its launch has lain in mediating and exploring architecture in its historical depth and thematic breadth. The results of the institute’s in-house research, which is primarily influenced by the areas of interest of the teaching staff and the holdings of the simultaneously established archive, have been presented since 1968 in a publication series. These first appeared in cooperation with the Birkhäuser publishing house (in the “rainbow series”), later with the Ammann publishing house and since the mid-1980s in the gta Verlag, which today enjoys the reputation of being one of the leading architecture publishers.\n\nThe absorption of the so-called Semper Archive from the ETH Bibliothek on the occasion of the creation of the institute forms the foundation of the gta Archives, which over time has advanced to become an internationally renowned research facility. Since then, the main acquisition emphasis has been on the architecture of the nineteenth century and the pre-modern, modern (Swiss) architecture in the form of collections (Congrès Internationaux d'Architecture Moderne (CIAM)), as well as advance legacies and bequests of individual architects of international stature (including Karl Moser, Hans Bernoulli, Lux Guyer, Haefeli Moser Steiger, Ernst Gisel, Fritz Haller and Trix and Robert Haussmann).\n\nThe organisational office for exhibitions by the ETH Zurich’s Department of Architecture became incorporated in the institute in 1974, and – since 1986 as gta Exhibitions – affords a wide public insight into contemporary architectural discourse and current research at the department.\n\n\nToday the institute encompasses the following professorial chairs:\n\nThe following divisions assist the research projects and convey their findings:\n\nThe gta Institute assists in the promotion of academic newcomers with its own doctoral programme (since 2012). The institute’s educational provisions are supplemented by the programme Master of Studies in the History and Theory of Architecture, which mediates between practice and scholarship (since 1992).\nThere is a close academic exchange with the Werner Oechslin Library Foundation, associated with the ETH Zurich via a cooperation agreement.\n\nThe institute’s task is to empirically appraise and theoretically reflect upon architecture in its historical depth and ideological breadth. Along with the establishing and verification of facts, the gta Institute has always been at pains to review applied methods in terms of their validity as models and to make them beneficial to contemporary architecture. As an institute, the gta researches and teaches the history of knowledge of architecture, building forms and techniques, the function of architecture and its relations to society and politics, the evolution of design and architectural thinking from the beginnings to today, as well as the methodologies of architectural history work ranging from building analysis through to the digital humanities.\n\n"}
{"id": "22978742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22978742", "title": "Jackie Huggins", "text": "Jackie Huggins\n\nJacqueline Gail \"Jackie\" Huggins AM, FAHA (born 19 August 1956) is an Indigenous Australian author, historian and Aboriginal rights activist of the Bidjara Central Queensland and Birri-Gubba Juru North Queensland peoples. She is the Deputy Director of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies Unit, an Adjunct Professor in the School of Social Work and Human Services at the University of Queensland and a Spokesperson for Recognise.\n\nJackie Huggins was born in Ayr, Queensland, the daughter of Jack and Rita Huggins. She is of the Bidjara / Pitjara (Central Queensland) and Biri / Birri Gubba Juru (North Queensland) peoples. Her family moved to Inala in Brisbane when she was young and she attended Inala State High School. She left school at age 15 to assist her family and worked as a typist with the Australian Broadcasting Commission at Toowong, Queensland from 1972-1978. Thereafter she joined the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra. In 1980 she returned to Brisbane and was a Field Officer in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs.\n\nHuggins' son, John Henry Huggins, was born in 1985. Huggins enrolled at the University of Queensland in 1985, graduating with a BA (Hons) in History and Anthropology in 1987. She studied a Diploma of Education (Aboriginal Education) in 1988. Part of her practical training included eight weeks teaching in Ti Tree, north of Alice Springs. Huggins completed an Honours degree in History/Women's Studies (1989) from Flinders University in Adelaide, South Australia.\n\nHuggins is a former Co-Chair of Reconciliation Australia, the former Chair of the Queensland Domestic Violence Council, and has been a member of the National Council for Aboriginal Reconciliation, the AIATSIS Council, and Co-Commissioner for Queensland for the Inquiry into the Separation of Aboriginal Children. In 2001 she was appointed a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) for her work with Indigenous people, particularly in reconciliation, literacy, women's issues and social justice. In 2007 Huggins was named University of Queensland Alumnus of the Year. She has published a wide range of essays and studies dealing with Indigenous history and identity. She is the author of \"Sistergirl\" (University of Queensland Press, 1998), and co-author, with Rita Huggins, of the critically acclaimed biography \"Auntie Rita\" (Aboriginal Studies Press, 1994).\n\"We must respect each other's right to choose a collective destiny, and the opportunity to develop the legal and political rights for Indigenous and non-Indigenous peoples so that we may enjoy the right to maintain our culture, our heritage and our land, as a united Australia\".\n"}
{"id": "925994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925994", "title": "Jehuda Reinharz", "text": "Jehuda Reinharz\n\nJehuda Reinharz (born August 1, 1944) served as President of Brandeis University from 1994-2010. He is currently the Richard Koret Professor of Modern Jewish History and Director of the Tauber Institute for the Study of European Jewry at Brandeis. On September 25, 2009, Reinharz announced his retirement as President of Brandeis, but at the request of the Board of Trustees, he stayed on until a replacement could be hired. On January 1, 2011, Reinharz became president of the Mandel Foundation.\n\nJehuda Reinharz was born in Haifa in the British Mandate of Palestine, now the State of Israel. He received his high school education in Germany and move to the United States as a teenager in 1961. Reinharz earned concurrent bachelor's degrees: a Bachelor of Science (B.S) from Columbia University and a Bachelor of Religious Education (B.R.E) from the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. He earned his master's degree in medieval Jewish history from Harvard University in 1968, and his Ph.D. in modern Jewish history from Brandeis University in 1972.\n\nHis wife, Shulamit Reinharz, is a professor of sociology at Brandeis University; she founded the Women's Studies Research Center and the Hadassah-Brandeis Institute, both of which she currently directs. They live in Brookline, MA. Their daughters Yael and Naomi live in New York City. \nIn 1972, Reinharz became the first professor of Jewish history at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, where he created the interdisciplinary program that formed the basis for the University's Frankel Center for Judaic Studies.\n\nIn 1982, he became the Richard Koret Professor of Modern Jewish History in the Department of Near Eastern and Judaic Studies at Brandeis University. Two years later, he was named Director of the Tauber Institute for the Study of European Jewry at Brandeis, and eight years later he founded the Jacob and Libby Goodman Institute for the Study of Zionism and Israel. From 1991 to 1994, Dr. Reinharz served as Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs.\n\nReinharz was announced as the University's 7th president on March 2, 1994, succeeding Samuel O. Thier. During Reinharz's 17-year tenure, the university enjoyed major physical changes including the construction of the Village Residence Hall, Abraham Shapiro Academic Complex, Carl and Ruth Shapiro Campus Center, Carl Shapiro Science Center, Carl Shapiro Admissions center, Mandel Center for the Humanities, and many other major capital improvements. He raised $1.2 billion during his presidency and more than tripled the endowment, from $194 million to $772 million.\n\nReinharz announced his resignation as President of Brandeis University at midnight on September 25, 2009 after serving the Brandeis community for seventeen years. He stayed on as President until a successor was selected and ready to assume office. On January 1, 2011, Reinharz was officially replaced by Frederick M. Lawrence, and on that date he became president of the Mandel Foundation. Upon stepping down, he made a $5 million gift to Brandeis for scholarships and fellowships.\n\nReinharz is the recipient of numerous awards and honors, such as the President of Israel Prize, awarded by the Israeli Parliament (Knesset) in 1990. He was also elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1995 and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations in 1999.\n\nIn 1998, Reinharz was appointed by President Bill Clinton to serve on the Presidential Advisory Commission on Holocaust Assets in the United States.\n\nReinharz is the recipient of honorary doctorates from Hebrew Union College, the Jewish Theological Seminary, Fairfield University in Connecticut, Ben Gurion University in Israel, the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel, Brandeis University and Hebrew College.\n\nReinharz serves as chairman of the Advisory Board of the Genesis Prize Foundation. In 2017, he was elected chairman of the International Board of the Weizmann Institute in Israel.\n\nReinharz is the author of more than one hundred articles and 31 books in various languages. His \"Jew in the Modern World\" is one of the most widely adopted college texts in modern Jewish history. His two-volume biography of Chaim Weizmann, the first President of Israel, has won many prizes in Israel and the United States. His book, co-authored with the late Ben Halpern, entitled \"Zionism and the Creation of a New Society\", was published in 1998. \"Glorious, Accursed Europe\", co-authored with Yaacov Shavit was published in 2010.\n\nHis latest books are published in Hebrew and English. In October 2005 he co-edited the letters and documents relating to the life and times of Manya Shochat, a remarkable pioneer of the Second Aliyah. His book \"Israel in the Middle East\", co-edited with Itamar Rabinovich, was published in 2007; three books, \"Darwin and Some of His Kind\" (2009), \"The Scientific God\" (2011) and \"Window Unto the World\" (2017), were co-authored with Yaacov Shavit. In 2013 Reinharz co-authored \"The Road to September 1939\", with Yaacov Shavit (an English expanded version 2018), as well as \"Die Sprache der Judenfeindschaft im 21.Jahrhundert\", co-authored with Monika Schwarz-Friesel (2013). An English translation appeared in January 2017 and is titled \"Inside the Antisemitic Mind\".\n\nReinharz co-wrote a book on the history of the donkey in literature, arguing that the animal is often used as a substitute for people. In the course of writing this book, he has said: \"There are smart donkeys, stupid donkeys, evil donkeys, etc., and no one has ever contemplated this on a large scale... It’s probably the most ambitious topic Professor Shavit and I have ever contemplated.\" The book, \"The Donkey: A Cultural History,\" was published in 2014 in Hebrew.\n\n"}
{"id": "2948212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2948212", "title": "Jocelyn de Brakelond", "text": "Jocelyn de Brakelond\n\nJocelyn de Brakelond or \"Jocelin de Brakelonde\" was an English monk and the author of a chronicle narrating the fortunes of the monastery of Bury St. Edmunds Abbey between 1173 and 1202. He is only known through his own work.\n\nJoceylyn was a native of Bury St. Edmunds; he served his novitiate under Samson of Tottington, who was at that time master of the novices, but afterwards sub-sacrist, and, from 1182, abbot of the house. Jocelyn took the habit of religion in 1173, during the time of Abbot Hugo (1157–1180), through whose improvidence and laxity the abbey had become impoverished and the monks had lost discipline.\n\nThe fortunes of the abbey changed for the better with the election of Samson as Hugo's successor. Jocelyn, who became the abbot's chaplain within four months of the election, describes the administration of Samson at considerable length. He tells us that he was with Samson night and day for six years; the picture which he gives of his master, although coloured by enthusiastic admiration, is singularly frank and intimate. It is all the more convincing since Jocelyn is no stylist. His Latin is familiar and easy, but the reverse of classical. He thinks and writes as one whose interests are wrapped up in his house; and the unique interest of his work lies in the minuteness with which it describes the policy of a monastic administrator who was in his own day considered as a model.\n\nJocelyn has also been credited with an extant but unprinted tract on the election of Abbot Hugo (Harleian manuscript 1005, fol. 165); from internal evidence this appears to be an error. He mentions a (non-extant) work which he wrote, before the \"Cronica\", on the miracles of Saint Robert of Bury, a boy found murdered in 1181 whose death during a period of rising anti-Semitism was blamed on the local Jews.\n\nJ. G. Rokewood published an edition of \"Chronica Jocelini de Brakelonda de Rebus Gestis Samsonis Abbatis Monasterii Sancti Edmundi\" (Camden Society), in 1840. A translation and notes are given in TE Tomlin's \"Monastic and Social Life in the Twelfth Century in the Chronicle of Jocelyn de Brakelond\" (1844). Thomas Carlyle's 'book \"Past and Present\", which contrasted medieval and modern culture, used Tomlin's edition of Jocelyn as its principal source, making a hero of Abbot Samson, one of the main figures in Jocelyn's narrative.\n\nA recent translation with a substantial introduction is: Jocelin of Brakelond, \"Chronicle of the Abbey of Bury St Edmunds\", trans. Diana Greenway and Jane Sayers (Oxford: Oxford Univ. Press, 1989; reissue 2009).\n"}
{"id": "8321374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8321374", "title": "Julius Brutzkus", "text": "Julius Brutzkus\n\nJulius Davidovich Brutzkus or Judah Loeb Brutzkus or Joselis Bruckus (, \"Yehuda Loeb ben David Brutzkus\", ; 1870, Palanga, Courland Governorate – January 27, 1951 in Tel Aviv) was a Lithuanian Jewish historian, scholar, and politician. \n\nHe was born in 1870 in Palanga, Courland Governorate, Russian Empire (in present-day Lithuania). His brother was the economist Boris Brutzkus. Julius studied in Moscow at the gymnasium and the University of Moscow. His family, along with thousands of other Jewish families, was expelled from the city in 1892 (see May Laws). He was able to continue his education and received his doctorate in 1894. Brutzkus took part in the Russian Jewish bibliographical work, \"\" (\"Systematic Index of Literature concerning Jews\", \"Sistematicheskiy Ukazatel Literatury o Yevreyakh\"). Beginning in 1895, Brutzkus contributed to the Russian-Jewish periodical \"Voskhod\". In 1899 he was appointed assistant editor of that periodical. \n\nThroughout the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries Brutzkus authored a vast array of articles and books in Russian, Lithuanian, Polish, English, German, Yiddish, Hebrew, and French on the history of the Jews in Russia; he was particularly intrigued with the history of the Khazars and the early Rus' Khaganate. He also wrote numerous works on the economic and political history of Eastern Europe and the cultural history of Mizrahi Jewry.\n\nIn 1923 he served as Minister for Jewish Affairs in the Lithuanian government and was elected to the Lithuanian Parliament in November of that year.\n\nBrutzkus was an ardent Zionist and encouraged Jews to engage in political action and self-defense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24490739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24490739", "title": "Martin Lynn", "text": "Martin Lynn\n\nMartin Lynn (31 August 1951 - 15 April 2005) was a British and Nigerian historian at Queen's University in Belfast. He taught African History. His publications include \"Commerce and Economic Change in West Africa: The Palm Oil Trade in the Nineteenth Century \" (Cambridge University Press, 1997), and \"Nigeria 1943-60\" in the \"British Documents at the End of the Empire\" project (HMSO, London, 2001) and \"Encountering the Light: A Journey Taken (Ebor Press, York)\". He was an active member of the Society of Friends. The Martin Lynn Scholarship, administered by the Royal Historical Society, was founded in his memory. Lynn, a native of Nigeria, was educated at King's College London.\n\nhttp://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/obituaries/article523519.ece\n\nhttp://www.postgraduatestudentships.co.uk/node/775\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20030804013059/http://www.sessionsofyork.co.uk/books/intro.html\n"}
{"id": "33590452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33590452", "title": "Myoma Myint Kywe", "text": "Myoma Myint Kywe\n\nMyoma Myint Kywe (, pronounced [mjo̰ mə-mjɪ̰ɴ tɕwɛ̀]; also U Myint Kywe; born 14 April 1960) is a Burmese writer and historian.\n\nHe was awarded the Sarpay Beikman Manuscript Awards First Prize for 2003 in the belles-lettres category. In 2007, he was awarded Myanmar Culture and Fine Arts Literature Prize for 2005.\nHe was born in Rangoon, Burma on 14 April 1960, son of Burmese politician Myoma U Than Kywe and Daw Ahmar (a) Myint Myint Win. He is the youngest son of four siblings. \n\n"}
{"id": "176735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176735", "title": "Neolithic architecture", "text": "Neolithic architecture\n\nNeolithic architecture refers to structures encompassing housing and shelter from approximately 10,000 to 2,000 BC, the Neolithic period. In southwest Asia, Neolithic cultures appear soon after 10,000 BC, initially in the Levant (Pre-Pottery Neolithic A and Pre-Pottery Neolithic B) and from there into the east and west. Early Neolithic structures and buildings can be found in southeast Anatolia, Syria, and Iraq by 8,000 BC with agriculture societies first appearing in southeast Europe by 7,000 BC, and central Europe by ca. 5,500 BC (of which the earliest cultural complexes include the Starčevo-Koros (Cris), Linearbandkeramic, and Vinča.\n\nThe Neolithic peoples in the Levant, Anatolia, Syria, northern Mesopotamia and central Asia were great builders, utilising mud-brick to construct houses and villages. At Çatalhöyük, houses were plastered and painted with elaborate scenes of humans and animals. \n\nIn Europe, the Neolithic long house with a timber frame, pitched roof, thatched roof, and walls finished in wattle and daub could be very large, presumably housing a whole extended family. Villages might comprise only a few such houses.\n\nNeolithic pile dwellings have been excavated in Sweden (Alvastra pile dwelling) and in the circum-Alpine area, with remains being found at the Mondsee and Attersee lakes in Upper Austria. Early archaeologists like Ferdinand Keller thought they formed artificial islands, much like the Scottish Crannogs, but today it is clear that the majority of settlements was located on the shores of lakes and were only inundated later on. Reconstructed pile dwellings are shown in open-air museums in Unteruhldingen and Zurich (Pfahlbauland).\n\nIn Romania, Moldova, and Ukraine, Neolithic settlements included wattle-and-daub structures with thatched roofs and floors made of logs covered in clay. This is also when the burdei pit-house (below-ground) style of house construction was developed, which was still used by Romanians and Ukrainians until the 20th century.\n\nNeolithic settlements and \"cities\" include:\n\nElaborate tombs for the dead were also built. These tombs are particularly numerous in Ireland, where there are many thousand still in existence. Neolithic people in the British Isles built long barrows and chamber tombs for their dead and causewayed camps, henges and cursus monuments.\n\nMegaliths found in Europe and the Mediterranean were also erected in the Neolithic period. These monuments include both megalithic tombs, temples and several structures of unknown function. Tomb architecture is normally easily distinguished by the presence of human remains that had originally been buried, often with recognizable intent. Other structures may have had a mixed use, now often characterised as religious, ritual, astronomical or political. The modern distinction between various architectural functions with which we are familiar today, now makes it difficult for us to think of some megalithic structures as multi-purpose socio-cultural centre points. Such structures would have served a mixture of socio-economic, ideological, political functions and indeed aesthetic ideals.\n\nThe megalithic structures of Ġgantija, Tarxien, Ħaġar Qim, Mnajdra, Ta' Ħaġrat, Skorba and smaller satellite buildings on Malta and Gozo, first appearing in their current form around 3600 BC, represent one of the earliest examples of a fully developed architectural statement in which aesthetics, location, design and engineering fused into free-standing monuments. Stonehenge, the other well-known building from the Neolithic would later, 2600 and 2400 BC for the sarsen stones, and perhaps 3000 BC for the blue stones, be transformed into the form that we know so well. At its height Neolithic architecture marked geographic space; their durable monumentality embodied a past, perhaps made up of memories and remembrance.\n\nIn the Central Mediterranean, Malta also became home of a subterranean skeuomorphised form of architecture around 3600 BC. At the Ħal-Saflieni Hypogeum, the inhabitants of Malta carved out an underground burial complex in which surface architectural elements were used to embellish a series of chambers and entrances. It is at the Neolithic Ħal-Saflieni Hypogeum that the earliest known skeuomorphism first occurred in the world. This architectural device served to define the aesthetics of the underworld in terms that well known in the larger megaliths. On Malta and Gozo, surface and subterranean architecture defined two worlds, which later, in the Greek world, would manifest themselves in the myth of Hades and the world of the living. In Malta, therefore, we encounter Neolithic architecture which is demonstrably not purely functional, but which was conceptual in design and purpose.\n\nEarly Neolithic water wells from the Linear Pottery culture have been found in central Germany near Leipzig. These structures are built in timber with complicated woodworking joints at the edges and have been dated between 5,200 and 5,100 BCE.\n\nThe world's oldest known engineered roadway, the Sweet Track in England, also dates from this time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6457338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6457338", "title": "Norbertas Vėlius", "text": "Norbertas Vėlius\n\nNorbertas Vėlius (January 1, 1938 in Gulbės, near Šilalė – June 23, 1996 in Vilnius, buried in the Antakalnis Cemetery) was a Lithuanian folklorist specializing in the Lithuanian mythology.\n\n"}
{"id": "22384287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22384287", "title": "Onnagata", "text": "Onnagata\n\nOnnagata or oyama (Japanese: 女形・女方, \"woman-role\"), are male actors who played women's roles in Japanese Kabuki theatre. The modern all-male kabuki was originally known as \"yarō kabuki\" (\"man kabuki\") to distinguish it from earlier forms. In the early 17th century, shortly after the emergence of the genre, many kabuki theaters had an all-female cast (\"onna kabuki\"), with women playing men's roles as necessary. \"Wakashū kabuki\" (\"adolescent-boy kabuki\"), with a cast composed entirely of attractive young men playing both male and female roles, and frequently dealing in erotic themes, originated circa 1612.\n\nBoth \"onnagata\" and \"wakashū\" (or \"wakashū-gata\"), actors specializing in adolescent female roles (and usually adolescents themselves), were the subject of much appreciation by both male and female patrons, and were often prostitutes. All-male casts became the norm after 1629, when women were banned from appearing in kabuki due to the prevalent prostitution of actresses and violent quarrels among patrons for the actresses' favors. This ban failed to stop the problems, however, since the young male (\"wakashū\") actors were also fervently pursued by patrons.\n\nIn 1642, \"onnagata\" roles were forbidden, resulting in plays that featured only male characters. These plays continued to have erotic content and generally featured many \"wakashū\" roles, often dealing in themes of \"nanshoku\" (male homosexuality); officials responded by banning \"wakashū\" roles as well. The ban on \"onnagata\" was lifted in 1644, and on \"wakashū\" in 1652, on the condition that all actors, regardless of role, adopted the adult male hairstyle with shaved pate. \"Onnagata\" and \"wakashū\" actors soon began wearing a small purple headscarf (\"murasaki bōshi\" or \"katsura\") to cover the shaved portion, which became iconic signifiers of their roles and eventually became invested with erotic significance as a result. After authorities rescinded a ban on wig-wearing by \"onnagata\" and \"wakashū\" actors, the \"murasaki bōshi\" was replaced by a wig and now survives in a few older plays and as a ceremonial accessory.\n\nAfter film was introduced in Japan at the end of the 19th century, the \"oyama\" continued to portray females in movies until the early 1920s. At that time, however, using real female actresses was coming into fashion with the introduction of realist \"shingeki\" films. The \"oyama\" staged a protest at Nikkatsu in 1922 in backlash against the lack of work because of this. Kabuki, however, remains all-male even today.\n\n\"Oyama\" continue to appear in Kabuki today, though the term \"onnagata\" has come to be used much more commonly.\n\nEvery Kabuki actor is expected to have facility with \"onnagata\" techniques; and while is it tempting for Western opinion to equate \"onnagata\" with mere cross-dressing, or female impersonation, no kabuki actor's training is complete without mastery of what constitutes the techniques the Kabuki \"onnagata.\" The phenomenon is best identified with the kanji, 女形, for there is no English equivalent.\n\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "38748298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38748298", "title": "Paravilyana language", "text": "Paravilyana language\n\nParavilyana (Paravilhana) is an extinct and poorly attested Cariban language. Kaufman (2007) placed it in his Pawishiana branch.\n"}
{"id": "457623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457623", "title": "Paul Ricœur", "text": "Paul Ricœur\n\nJean Paul Gustave Ricœur (; ; 27 February 1913 – 20 May 2005) was a French philosopher best known for combining phenomenological description with hermeneutics. As such, his thought is within the same tradition as other major hermeneutic phenomenologists, Edmund Husserl and Hans-Georg Gadamer. In 2000, he was awarded the Kyoto Prize in Arts and Philosophy for having \"revolutionized the methods of hermeneutic phenomenology, expanding the study of textual interpretation to include the broad yet concrete domains of mythology, biblical exegesis, psychoanalysis, theory of metaphor, and narrative theory.\"\n\nPaul Ricœur was born in 1913 in Valence, Drôme, France, to Léon \"Jules\" Ricœur (23 December 1881 – 26 September 1915) and Florentine Favre (17 September 1878 – 3 October 1913), who were married on December 30, 1910 in Lyon. He came from a family of devout Huguenots (French Protestants), a religious minority in France.\n\nPaul's father Jules, who served as a sergeant in the 75th Infantry Regiment of the French army during World War I, went missing in Perthes-lès-Hurlus near the beginning of the Second Battle of Champagne (September 25 – November 6, 1915). On September 26, 1915, French military authorities declared that Jules had probably been killed in the battle. His body wasn't found until 1932, when a field was being ploughed, and the body was identified by its tags. Some writers have stated that before World War I began, Paul's father (Léon \"Jules\" Ricœur) was a professor of English at the Lycée Emile Loubet in Valence. However, it was a different person — Jules Paul Ricœur (1887–1918) — who held that position. Paul's father's death occurred when Paul was only two years old. Subsequently, Paul was raised in Rennes, France by his paternal grandparents Louis Ricœur (1856–1932) and his wife Marie Sarradet (1856–1928), and by his father's sister Juliette \"Adèle\" Ricœur (December 20, 1892 - 1968), with a small stipend afforded to Paul as a war orphan. \n\nPaul, whose penchant for study was fueled by his family's Protestant emphasis on Bible study, was bookish and intellectually precocious. He discovered philosophy while attending the Lycée de Rennes (now ), where he studied under Roland Dalbiez (1893–1976), who was professor of philosophy at the lycée. Ricœur received his bachelor's degree in 1932 from the University of Rennes and began studying philosophy, and especially phenomenology, at the Sorbonne in 1933–34, where he was influenced by Gabriel Marcel. In 1934 he completed a DES thesis (\"\", roughly equivalent to an MA thesis) titled \"Problème de Dieu chez Lachelier et Lagneau\" (\"The Problem of God in Lachelier and Lagneau\"), concerning some of the theological views of French philosophers Jules Lachelier (1832–1918) and Jules Lagneau (1851–1894). In 1935, Paul was awarded the second-highest agrégation mark in the nation for philosophy, presaging a bright future.\n\nOn August 14, 1935, in Rennes, Paul married Simone Lejas (October 23, 1911 – January 7, 1998), with whom he had five children: Jean-Paul (born January 15, 1937), Marc (born February 22, 1938), Noëlle (born November 30, 1940), Olivier (July 10, 1947 – March 22, 1986), and Etienne (born 1953). In 1936–37, he fulfilled his military service.\n\nWorld War II interrupted Ricœur's career, and he was drafted to serve in the French army in 1939. His unit was captured during the German invasion of France in 1940 and he spent the next five years as a prisoner of war in Oflag II-D. His detention camp was filled with other intellectuals such as Mikel Dufrenne, who organized readings and classes sufficiently rigorous that the camp was accredited as a degree-granting institution by the Vichy government. During that time he read Karl Jaspers, who was to have a great influence on him. He also began a translation of Edmund Husserl's \"Ideas I\".\n\nRicœur taught at the University of Strasbourg between 1948 and 1956, the only French university with a Protestant faculty of theology. In 1950, he received his State doctorate, submitting (as is customary in France) two theses: a \"minor\" thesis translating Husserl's \"Ideas I\" into French for the first time, with commentary, and a \"major\" thesis that he published the same year as \"Philosophie de la Volonté I: Le Volontaire et l'Involontaire\" (\"Philosophy of the Will I: The Voluntary and the Involuntary\"). Ricœur soon acquired a reputation as an expert on phenomenology, then the ascendent philosophy in France.\n\nIn 1956, Ricœur took up a position at the Sorbonne as the Chair of General Philosophy. This appointment signaled Ricœur's emergence as one of France's most prominent philosophers. While at the Sorbonne, he wrote three works that cemented his reputation: \"Fallible Man\" and \"The Symbolism of Evil\" published in 1960, and \"Freud and Philosophy: An Essay on Interpretation\" published in 1965. Jacques Derrida was an assistant to Ricœur during that time (early 1960s).\n\nFrom 1965 to 1970, Ricœur was an administrator at the newly founded University of Nanterre in suburban Paris. Nanterre was intended as an experiment in progressive education, and Ricœur hoped that he could create a university in accordance with his vision, free of the stifling atmosphere of the tradition-bound Sorbonne and its overcrowded classes. Nevertheless, Nanterre became a hotbed of protest during the student uprisings of May 1968 in France. Ricœur was derided as an \"old clown\" (\"vieux clown\") and tool of the French government.\n\nDisenchanted with French academic life, Ricœur taught briefly at the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium, before taking a position at the Divinity School of the University of Chicago, where he taught from 1970 to 1985. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1971. His study culminated in \"The Rule of Metaphor: Multi-Disciplinary Studies of the Creation of Meaning in Language\" published in 1975 and the three-volume \"Time and Narrative\" published in 1983, 1984, 1985 Ricœur gave the Gifford Lectures in 1985/86, published in 1990 as \"Oneself as Another\". This work built on his discussion of narrative identity and his continuing interest in the self.\n\n\"Time and Narrative\" secured Ricœur's return to France in 1985 as a notable intellectual. His late work was characterised by a continuing cross-cutting of national intellectual traditions; for example, some of his latest writing engaged the thought of the American political philosopher John Rawls.\n\nIn 1995 he received an honorary doctorate from the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy.\n\nIn 1999, he was awarded the Balzan Prize for Philosophy, the citation being \"[f]or his capacity in bringing together all the most important themes and indications of 20th-century philosophy, and re-elaborating them into an original synthesis which turns language – in particular, that which is poetic and metaphoric – into a chosen place revealing a reality that we cannot manipulate, but interpret in diverse ways, and yet all coherent. Through the use of metaphor, language draws upon that truth which makes of us that what we are, deep in the profundity of our own essence\". That same year, he and his co-author André LaCocque (professor emeritus of Hebrew Bible at Chicago Theological Seminary) were awarded the Gordon J. Laing Award by the University of Chicago's Board of University Publications for their book \"Thinking Biblically: Exegetical and Hermeneutical Studies\".\n\nOn 29 November 2004, he was awarded with the second John W. Kluge Prize for Lifetime Achievement in the Human Sciences (shared with Jaroslav Pelikan).\n\nRicœur died on 20 May 2005 at his home in Châtenay-Malabry, France, of natural causes. French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin declared that \"the humanist European tradition is in mourning for one of its most talented exponents\".\n\nPaul Ricœur was buried in the Châtenay-Malabry New Cemetery, Châtenay-Malabry, Department des Hauts-de-Seine, Île-de-France, France.\n\nOne of Ricœur's major contributions to the field of hermeneutics was the entwining of hermeneutical processes with phenomenology. In this union, Ricœur applies the hermeneutical task to more than just textual analysis, but also to how each self relates to anything that is outside of the self. For Ricœur, hermeneutics is understanding the link between the self and the symbol—neither things in themselves, but the dialectical engagement between the two. Moreover, Ricœur, on the goal of hermeneutics, puts emphasis upon self-understanding as the outcome of the hermeneutical process: \"In proposing to relate symbolic language to self-understanding, I think I fulfill the deepest wish of hermeneutics. The purpose of all interpretation is to conquer a remoteness, a distance between the past cultural epoch to which the text belongs and the interpreter himself. By overcoming this distance, by making himself contemporary with the text, the exegete can appropriate its meaning to himself: foreign, he makes it familiar, that is, he makes it his own. It is thus the growth of his own understanding of himself that he pursues through his understanding of others. Every hermeneutics is thus, explicitly or implicitly, self-understanding by means of understanding others.\"Ricoeur maintains that the hermeneutical task is a coming together of the self and an other, in a meaningful way. This explication of self-meaning and other-meaning is principally bound up and manifested in existence itself. Thus, Ricoeur depicts philosophy as a hermeneutical activity seeking to uncover the meaning of existence through the interpretation of phenomena (which can only emerge as) embedded in the world of culture: \"This is why philosophy remains a hermeneutics, that is, a reading of the hidden meaning inside the text of the apparent meaning. It is the task of this hermeneutics to show that existence arrives at expression, at meaning, and at reflection only through the continual exegesis of all the significations that come to light in the world of culture. Existence becomes a self – human and adult – only by appropriating this meaning, which first resides \"outside,\" in works, institutions, and cultural movements in which the life of the spirit is justified.\"Furthermore, the process of hermeneutics, and extracting meaning, is a reflective task. The emphasis is not on the external meaning, but the meaning or insight of the self which is gained through encountering the external text—or other. The self-knowledge gained through the hermeneutical process is, thus, indirectly attained. This is in opposition to the Cartesian cogito, \"which grasps itself directly in the experience of doubt,\" and is \"a truth as vain as it is invincible.\" In point of fact, the difference Ricœur aims to distinguish is the means by which the self is discovered, which for him is only by means of interpreting the signified.\n\nAccording to Ricœur, the aim of hermeneutics is to recover and to restore the meaning. The French philosopher chooses the model of the phenomenology of religion, in relation to psychoanalysis, stressing that it is characterized by a concern on the object. This object is the sacred, which is seen in relation to the profane. \n\nRicœur's hermeneutical work \"Freud and Philosophy\" contains the famous assertion that Karl Marx, Friedrich Nietzsche and Sigmund Freud are masters of the school of suspicion (\"maîtres du soupçon\"/\"école du soupçon\"). Marx is reductionist, because he reduces society to economy, particularly to means of production; Nietzsche is a reductionist, because he reduces man to an arbitrary concept of superman; Freud is a reductionist because he reduces human nature to sexual instinct. \n\nIn \"The Rule of Metaphor\" and in \"Time and Narrative\", Vol. 1, Ricœur argues that there exists a linguistic productive imagination that generates/regenerates meaning through the power of metaphoricity by way of stating things in novel ways and, as a consequence, he sees language as containing within itself resources that allow it to be used creatively.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2222308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2222308", "title": "Post-industrial economy", "text": "Post-industrial economy\n\nA post-industrial economy refers to a period of growth within an industrialized economy or nation in which the relative importance of manufacturing reduces and that of services, information, and research grows.\nSuch economies are often marked by: \n\nThe industry aspect of a post-industrial economy is sent into less developed nations which manufacture what is needed at lower costs (\"see\" outsourcing). This occurrence is typical of nations that industrialized in the past such as the United Kingdom (first industrialised nation), most of Western Europe and the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "48702292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48702292", "title": "Samuel Silva Gotay", "text": "Samuel Silva Gotay\n\nSamuel Silva Gotay is a sociologist of religion of Puerto Rico and Latin America. He was born in Ponce, Puerto Rico in 1935. \n\nBrought up in a Protestant tradition, he became active in the ecumenical movement during his student days. In 1955 he became member of the Executive Committee of the World Christian Student Federation, the oldest ecumenical movement in the world. He holds degrees from the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus, Yale University and the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. He is Distinguished Professor in the Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus.\n\nSince early in professional work he developed an interest in the social dimension of the Christian tradition and participated in social justice movements. Following his first two years as a professor at the University of Puerto Rico, he studied theology and sociology or religion at Yale University, and became the Student Pastor at the UPR and Director of the Higher Education Office of the Council of Churches in Puerto Rico. In 1967 he served as Executive Director of the Foundation of Community Development, leading the \"Volunteers in service to Puerto Rico\"(VESPRA) group. \n\nHe became Associate Dean of Students at the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus in charge of cultural and students affairs. Two years later he returned to Mexico to pursue a doctoral degree on Latin American Studies. His dissertation was on the origins of Liberation Theology. After returning from México, Silva-Gotay taught in the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies of Faculty of Social Sciences, the Department of History of the Faculty of Humanities and in the Center for Advance Studies of Puerto Rico and the Caribbean in San Juan, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe current focus of his research and scholarship is on the use the categories of \"liberation theology\" to understand the history and sociology of religion in Puerto Rico. Most of his recent publications are in sociology of religion in Puerto Rico and Latin America. He was appointed Coordinator for the Caribbean of CEHILA: Comisión de Estudios de Historia de la Iglesia de América Latina, CEHILA is a project of Latino American historians, related to Theology of Liberation, established to produce a 12 volume history of the Church from the perspective of Latin America with a focus on social justice.\n\n\nHe is married to Jovita Caraballo, has three children and eight grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "11699652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11699652", "title": "Selim Deringil", "text": "Selim Deringil\n\nSelim M. Deringil (born Ottawa, 19 August 1951) is a Turkish academic, and professor of history at Boğaziçi University, Istanbul.\n\nDeringil earned his doctorate from the University of East Anglia in 1979, and joined Boğaziçi University the same year. He is a notable lecturer on Late Ottoman History, Ottoman Islam and relationships between Ottomans and Europe. He has lectured in the United States, England, France, Lebanon and Israel. He has written several essays on the fall of the Ottoman Empire and the history of the Republic of Turkey. His book \"The Well-Protected Domains: Ideology and the Legitimation of Power in the Ottoman Empire 1876-1909\" was awarded the \"Turkish Studies Association Fuad Köprülü\" prize in 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33726944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33726944", "title": "Serer history", "text": "Serer history\n\nThe medieval history of the Serer people of Senegambia is partly characterised by resisting Islamization from perhaps the 11th century during the Almoravid movement (which would later result in the Serers of Takrur migration to the south), to the 19th century Marabout movement of Senegambia and continuation of the old Serer paternal dynasties.\n\nAccording to Galvan (2004), \"The oral historical record, written accounts by early Arab and European explorers, and physical anthropological evidence suggest that the various Serer peoples migrated south from the Fuuta Tooro region (Senegal River valley) beginning around the eleventh century, when Islam first came across the Sahara.\" Over generations these people, possibly Pulaar speaking herders originally, migrated through Wolof areas and entered the Siin and Saluum river valleys. This lengthy period of Wolof-Serer contact has left us unsure of the origins of shared \"terminology, institutions, political structures, and practices.\"\n\nProfessor Étienne Van de Walle gave a slightly later date, writing that \"The formation of the Sereer ethnicity goes back to the thirteenth century, when a group came from the Senegal River valley in the north fleeing Islam, and near Niakhar met another group of Mandinka origin, called the Gelwar, who were coming from the southeast (Gravrand 1983). The actual Sereer ethnic group is a mixture of the two groups, and this may explain their complex bilinear kinship system\".\n\nAfter the Arab invasion of North Africa, the Berbers of the north advanced Islam via the Almoravid movement, penetrating parts of Africa, Europe and Asia. After the fall of the Ghana empire, the Serers resisted conversion and engaged in the battlefield to defend not only the Serer religion, but also their own power and wealth especially the Serer \"Lamanic class\" whose wealth and power was achieved through the Lamanic lineage.\n\nThe Serer earned their living from agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing, boat building (an ancient Serer tradition) and transporting people over the river.\n\nThe jihads that had affected Tekrur in the 11th century which led to the Serers of Tekrur exodus only affected those Serers living in Tekrur at the time. It did not apply to all Serer people. The Serer people are very diverse and spread throughout the Senegambia founding towns and villages, the Serer names of these towns and villages still remain today.\nIn the Senegambia region, the Serer people were ruled by Lamanes. The Serer who have migrated from Tekrur to join their distant Serer relatives created a southward migration for Mandinka migrants. Godfrey Mwakikagile proposed that the Mandinkas were either defeated in battle or incorporated into Serer society. The Serers ruled over the Wolof kingdom of Jolof. They were ruling Jolof before the \"Jaw\", \"Ngom\", \"Mengue\" (or \"Mbengue\") and \"Njie\" dynasties (who were all Serers with the exeception of the \"Mengue\" dynasty who were Lebou – \"Mengue\" or \"Mbengue\" is a Lebou surname). However, these Serer and Lebou rulers of Jolof (predominantly a Wolof area) became assimilated into Wolof culture.\n\nThe actual foundation of the Kingdom of Sine is unclear, but in the late 14th century Mandinka migrants entered the area. They were led by a matrilineal clan known as the Gelwaar. Here they encountered the Serer, who had already established a system of lamanic authorities, and established a Gelwaar led state with its capital in or near a Serer lamanic estate centred at Mbissel.\n\nMarriages between the Serer paternal clans such as Faye and Joof to the Guelwar women created the Serer paternal dynasties and a Guelowar maternal dynasty. According to Serer oral tradition a king named Maad a Sinig Maysa Wali Jaxateh Manneh (many variations in spelling: \"Maissa Wali\", \"Maissa Wally\" also known as \"Maysa Wali Jon\" or \"Maysa Wali Dione\") – (reigned 1350) was the first Guelowar king of Sine. Having served for several years as legal advisor to The Great Council of Lamans and assimilated into Serer culture, he was elected and crowned the firstking of Sine in (1350). His sisters and nieces were married off to the Serer nobility and the offspring of these unions where the kings of Sine and later Saloum (Maad a Sinig and Maad Saloum respectively).\n\nHenry Gravrand reported an oral tradition describing what he called the \"Battle of Troubang\", a dynastic war between the two maternal royal houses of Ñaanco and the Guelowar,an off-shot and relatives of the \"Ñaanco\" (\"Nyanthio\" or \"Nyanco\") maternal dynasty of Kaabu, in modern-day Guinea Bissau. In reporting this tradition, Henry Gravrand did not notice that this is actually a description of the 1867 (or 1865) Battle of Kansala.\n\nNjaajan Njie (English spelling in Gambia, \"Ndiandiane Ndiaye\" or \"N'Diadian N'Diaye\" – French spelling in Senegal, or \"Njaajaan Njaay\" - in the Serer language, also known as \"Amudu Bubakar b. 'Umar\", is the traditional founder of the Jolof Empire by the Wolof people. Traditional stories of the ancestry of this leader vary. One suggests that he was \"the first and only son of a noble and saintly Arab father Abdu Darday and a \"Tukuler\" woman, Fatamatu Sail.\" This gives him an Almoravid lineage, ie a Berber and Islamic background, on his father's side, and a link on his mother's side to Takrur. James Searing adds that \"In all versions of the myth, Njaajaan Njaay speaks his first words in Pulaar rather than Wolof, emphasizing once again his character as a stranger of noble origins.\" Njaajan Njie was the founder of the first Wolof kingdom and claimed by the Wolof as their ancestor.\n\nJohn Donnelly Fage suggests although dates in the early 13th century (and others say 12th century) are usually ascribed to this king and the founding of the empire, a more likely scenario is \"that the rise of the empire was associated with the growth of Wolof power at the expense of the ancient Sudanese state of Takrur, and that this was essentially a fourteenth-century development.\"\n\nIn 1446, a Portuguese caravel carrying the Portuguese slave trader - Nuno Tristão and his party attempted to enter Serer territory in order to carry out slave raiding. None of the adult passengers of that caravel survived. They all succumbed to Serer poisoned arrows except five young Portuguese (or fewer). One of them was left with the task to charter the caravel back to Portugal. Nuno was amongst those killed.\n\nThe Battle of Fandane-Thiouthioune also known as \"The Battle of Somb\" was a religious war (but also partly motivated by conquest – empire building) between the Muslim Marabout movement of Senegambia and the Serer people of Sine. On 18 July 1867, the leader of the Marabouts Maba Diakhou Bâ launched a jihad in the Serer Kingdom of Sine but was defeated and killed by the forces of Maad a Sinig Kumba Ndoffene Famak Joof, King of Sine.\n\nMaba Diakhou, a rather charismatic leader in the Marabout sect saw the propagation of Islam in Senegambia and an Islamic empire as his divine mission. Although he did not achieve an Islamic empire, he had managed to conquer several villages in Senegal and Gambia and his movement was responsible for the Islamization of many Senegambians.\n\nAlthough by the end of the twentieth century most Serer had converted to Islam(about 85% by the 1990s), Serer people's medieval to 19th century history in resisting Islamization has created a division between \"believers\" of Islam and \"non-believers\" such as the orthodox Serers who adhere to Serer religion. Klein notes that :\n\nThis division is not just religious but also has an ethnic dimension. As opponents of Islam for nearly a millennia, anti-Serer sentiments are not uncommon. However, the Serer countries, especially the Sine area of Senegal, is reported to be a true bastion of the anti-Islamic.\n\nAt present, the Serer population is estimated to be over 1.8 million based on population figures for Senegal, Gambia and Mauritania (2011) – excluding the Serers living in the West and elsewhere. They are more numerous in Senegal than in Gambia and Mauritania. Though traditionally mixed-farmers, boat builders and land owners, the Serers are found in all major professions including politics, medicine, literature, commerce, law, agriculture, etc. Polyculture and boat building is still practiced by some Serers. Due to their Lamanic land inheritance system, they tend to have valuable land. Recently however, President Abdoulaye Wade's land reform law has affected many Serer farming communities in Senegal and they've lost their properties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26521991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26521991", "title": "Srpski rječnik", "text": "Srpski rječnik\n\nSrpski rječnik (, , The Serbian Dictionary; full name: Српски рјечник истолкован њемачким и латинским ријечма, \"The Serbian Dictionary, paralleled with German and Latin words\") is a dictionary written by Vuk Stefanović Karadžić, first published in 1818. It is the first known dictionary of the vernacular Serbian language.\n\nKaradžić began collecting words of the Serbian vernacular in 1815, as suggested by Slovene linguist Jernej Kopitar. While working in court during his time in Serbia, he had a habit of \"writing down an interesting word or two\". The first published edition of the dictionary came out in 1818, and contained 26.270 words which Karadžić had heard in the common speech. His source could also have been the Avramović Dictionary. Karadžić's dictionary itself was one of the most important steps in his struggle for the Serbian language and grammar because it stated that the pure vernacular should provide the basis for a main literary language. Also reviewed in the dictionary were phonetic changes, later being a part of the \"Grammar of the Serbian language\", which was later merged with the dictionary and translated by Jacob Grimm into German in 1824, while the dictionary itself was translated into Latin and German by Jernej Kopitar.\nWhile being officially completed in 1816, the dictionary could not yet be published for a number of reasons, mainly due to the lack of resources and therefore means to print the dictionaries. While at the time there were no printing presses present in Serbia, printing such a work in Austria required the permission of Metropolitan Stefan Stratimirović, who saw Karadžić's work in orthography as a threat to the Serbian Orthodox Church and its habits of educating Serbs with the so-called Slavonic-Serbian language, an adaptation of the Church Slavonic language.\n\nKaradžić had also implemented the use of new, reformed letters within the dictionary. These included Ј, Љ, Њ, Ђ, Ћ and Џ. Words including the letter Х, which Karadžić insisted to be used with foreign words only, did not appear in the first edition of the dictionary. However, Karadžić was later persuaded by Lukijan Mušicki and Pavle Solarić that the letter be used in some words, however \"Х\" was never attributed in the dictionary as a starting letter, and no words beginning with \"Х\" were included.\n\nThe dictionary was sharply criticized and attacked by opponents of the language reform, a strong motive for this being the large amount of swear words present in the dictionary, which were included partly due to Kopitar's and Grimm's persuasions. Jacob Grimm showed a distinct interest in profanity within the Serbian language and in his correspondence with Karadžić he requested their equivalent in German. Attacks held against the dictionary did not cease even after 1847, which was considered to be the year of victory for Karadžić's reforms. Some linguists have found that Karadžić has plagiarized some older Croatian dictionaries.\n"}
{"id": "2398135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2398135", "title": "Teodoro Agoncillo", "text": "Teodoro Agoncillo\n\nTeodoro Andal Agoncillo (November 9, 1912 – January 14, 1985) was a prominent 20th-century Filipino historian. He and his contemporary Renato Constantino were among the first Filipino historians renowned for promoting a distinctly nationalist point of view of Filipino history (nationalist historiography). He was also an essayist and a poet.\n\nAgoncillo is related to Don Felipe Agoncillo, the Filipino diplomat who represented the Philippines in the negotiations that led to the Treaty of Paris (1898), and Dona Marcela Agoncillo, one of the principal seamstress of the Philippine flag.\n\nBorn in Lemery, Batangas to Pedro Agoncillo and Feliza Andal, both from landed families in Batangas, Agoncillo obtained a bachelor's degree in philosophy from the University of the Philippines in Manila, in 1934, and a master's degree in the arts from the same university the following year. He earned his living as a linguistic assistant at the Institute of National Language and as an instructor at the Far Eastern University and the Manuel L. Quezon University. In 1956, he published his seminal work, \"Revolt of the Masses: The Story of Bonifacio and the Katipunan\", a history of the 1896 Katipunan-led revolt against Spanish rule and its leader, Andres Bonifacio. He garnered acclaim for this book, as well as criticisms from more conservative historians discomfited by the work's nationalist bent.\n\nIn 1958, Agoncillo was invited to join the faculty of the Department of History of his \"alma mater\", the University of the Philippines. He remained with the university until his retirement in 1977, chairing the Department of History from 1963 to 1969. After retiring from UP, Agoncillo taught Filipino history as a visiting professor at the International Christian University in Mitaka, Tokyo, Japan, for one year from 1977 to 1978. Philippine President Diosdado Macapagal named Agoncillo as a member of the National Historical Institute in 1963. He served in this capacity until his death in 1985. Agoncillo was chair of the History Department in the University of the Philippines at the same time period that his cousin, General Abelardo Andal, served as Commander (Chair) of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps of the same university.\n\nHe was named National Scientist of the Philippines in 1985 for his distinguished contributions in the field of history. Agoncillo was also among the few academics who held the rank of University Professor, an academic rank given to outstanding faculty members with specialization in more than one of the traditional academic domains (Science & Technology; Social Sciences; and Arts & Humanities), at the University of the Philippines Diliman.\n\nDespite Agoncillo's controversial tone and for his perceived leftist bent, his book, \"History of the Filipino People\", first published in 1960, remains a popular standard textbook in many Filipino universities, as are many of Agoncillo's other works. Gregorio Zaide, Teodoro Agoncillo, Reynaldo Ileto and Renato Constantino stand as the most prominent 20th-century Filipino historians to emerge during the post-war period. However, opponents of Agoncillo contend that Agoncillo's works suffer from uneven scholarship throughout, especially with his use (or especially, non-use) of reliable historical sources, even when his opponents could not offer solid rebuttals.\n\n\n\", National Historical Institute (Manila, 1996), pp. 6–7.\n"}
{"id": "5560362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5560362", "title": "The Coal Question", "text": "The Coal Question\n\nThe Coal Question; An Inquiry Concerning the Progress of the Nation, and the Probable Exhaustion of Our Coal Mines is a book that economist William Stanley Jevons wrote in 1865 to explore the implications of Britain's reliance on coal. Given that coal was a finite, non-renewable energy resource, Jevons raised the question of sustainability. \"Are we wise,\" he asked rhetorically, \"in allowing the commerce of this country to rise beyond the point at which we can long maintain it?\" His central thesis was that the supremacy of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland over global affairs was transitory, given the finite nature of its primary energy resource. In propounding this thesis, Jevons covered a range of issues central to sustainability, including limits to growth, overpopulation, overshoot, energy return on energy input (EROEI), taxation of energy resources, renewable energy alternatives, and resource peakinga subject widely discussed today under the rubric of peak oil.\n\nJevons introduces the first chapter of \"The Coal Question\" with a succinct description of coal's wonders and of society's insatiable appetite for it:\n\"Coal in truth stands not beside but entirely above all other commodities. It is the material energy of the country — the universal aid — the factor in everything we do. With coal almost any feat is possible or easy; without it we are thrown back into the laborious poverty of early times. With such facts familiarly before us, it can be no matter of surprise that year by year we make larger draughts upon a material of such myriad qualities — of such miraculous powers.\"\n\n\"...new applications of coal are of an unlimited character. In the command of force, molecular and mechanical, we have the key to all the infinite varieties of change in place or kind of which nature is capable. No chemical or mechanical operation, perhaps, is quite impossible to us, and invention consists in discovering those which are useful and commercially practicable...\"\nJevons further argues that coal is the source of the UK's prosperity and global dominance.\n\nBecause coal was not unlimited, because its access became more difficult with time, and because the demand grew exponentially, Jevons argued that limits or boundaries to prosperity would appear sooner than was generally realized:\n\"I must point out the painful fact that such a rate of growth will before long render our consumption of coal comparable with the total supply. In the increasing depth and difficulty of coal mining we shall meet that vague, but inevitable boundary that will stop our progress.\"\nIn Jevons' day, British geologists were estimating that the country had coal reserves of 90 billion tons. Jevons believed that extraction of much of this amount would prove to be uneconomical. But, even if the entire quantity could be extracted, Jevons argued, exponential economic growth could not continue unabated.\n\nUsing historical production estimates, Jevons showed that for the previous 80 years production had grown at a relatively consistent rate of 3.5% per year, or 41% per decade. If this growth rate were to continue, production would grow from approximately 100 million tons in 1865 to more than 2.6 billion tons in 100 years. Jevons then calculated that, in that case, the country would produce approximately 100 billion tons within that period. In short, resources were not sufficient for even 100 years, and long before the 100 years point, the growth rate, which was the measure of prosperity, would have to decline. At some point, production would simply hit a peak, which itself meant dire consequences:\n\"Suppose our progress to be checked within half a century, yet by that time our consumption will probably be three or four times what it now is; there is nothing impossible or improbable in this; it is a moderate supposition, considering that our consumption has increased eight-fold in the last sixty years. But how shortened and darkened will the prospects of the country appear, with mines already deep, fuel dear, and yet a high rate of consumption to keep up if we are not to retrograde.\"\nEven before the peak was reached, high extraction costs could cause the UK to lose the competitive advantage it currently enjoyed in manufacturing and shipping.\n\nBritish coal production did in fact peak in 1913, but at 292 million tons, about half the amount Jevons' extrapolation suggested. Just under a third of this was exported. Since then, production has dropped to less than 20 million tons.\nCurrent UK resources are estimated at about 400 million tons.\n\nAccording to Jevons, coal depletion had serious ramifications for population growth. The population of the UK had increased by more than 10% each decade for the prior 70 years, not surprising given that coal production was growing at 40% per decade, meaning that the \"per capita\" wealth was growing.\n\"For the present our cheap supplies of coal, and our skill in its employment, and the freedom of our commerce with other wide lands, render us independent of the limited agricultural area of these islands, and take us out of the scope of Malthus' doctrine. We are growing rich and numerous upon a source of wealth of which the fertility does not yet apparently decrease with our demands upon it. Hence the uniform and extraordinary rate of growth which this country presents. We are like settlers spreading in a rich new country of which the boundaries are yet unknown and unfelt.\"\nHowever, as the growth in coal production slowed, the population growth might easily surpass the production growth, leading to a drop in living conditions:\n\"Now population, when it grows, moves with a certain uniform impetus, like a body in motion; and uniform progress of population, as I have fully explained before, is multiplication in a uniform ratio. But long-continued progress in such a manner is altogether impossible — it must outstrip all physical conditions and bounds; and the longer it continues, the more severely must the ultimate check be felt. I do not hesitate to say, therefore, that the rapid growth of our great towns, gratifying as it is in the present, is a matter of very serious concern as regards the future.\"\nIn contrast to Malthus's view that resource growth was linear, Jevons took resource growth as being exponential, like population. This modification of Malthus's theory did not alter the conclusion that unrestrained population growth would inevitably surpass the nation's ability to expand its resources. Prosperity, in terms of \"per capita\" consumption, would therefore fall. Moreover, because the primary resource was non-renewable, the fall would be more dramatic than Malthus envisioned:\nA farm, however far pushed, will under proper cultivation continue to yield forever a constant crop. But in a mine there is no reproduction, and the produce once pushed to the utmost will soon begin to fail and sink towards zero. So far then as our wealth and progress depend upon the superior command of coal we must not only stop—we must go back.\nGiven that energy depletion posed long-term dangers for society, Jevons analyzed possible mitigation measures. In so doing, he considered the phenomenon that has come to be known as Jevons paradox. As he wrote:\n\" It is wholly a confusion of ideas to suppose that the economical use of fuel is equivalent to a diminished consumption. The very contrary is the truth.\"\nJevons described the historical development of engine technology and argued that the great increase in the UK's consumption of coal was due to the efficiency (or \"economy\") brought about by technological innovations, with particular credit going to James Watt's 1776 invention of the steam engine. Like many innovations that followed, such as improved methods for smelting iron, greater economy broadened usage and led to increased energy consumption.\n\"Whatever, therefore, conduces to increase the efficiency of coal, and to diminish the cost of its use, directly tends to augment the value of the steam-engine, and to enlarge the field of its operations.\"\nJevons also considered and rejected other measures that might reduce consumption, such as coal taxes and export restrictions. Similarly, although he deplored the wasteful practice of burning away low quality coal at the mine site, he did not support conservation legislation.\n\nAn alternative that he did consider practical was tightened government fiscal policy, based on using tax revenue to reduce the national debt. Tightened fiscal policy would have the effect of slowing economic growth, thereby slowing coal consumption, at least until the debt was erased. Still, Jevons admitted that the overall impact of such a measure, even if it were implemented, would be minimal. In short, the prospect that society would voluntarily reduce consumption was dim.\n\nJevons considered the feasibility of alternative energy sources, foreshadowing modern debates on the subject. Regarding wind and tidal forces, he explained that such sources of intermittent power could be made more useful if the energy were stored, for example by pumping water to a height for subsequent use as hydro power. He reviewed biomass, namely timber, and commented that forests covering all of the UK could not supply energy equal to the current coal production. He also mentioned possibilities for geothermal and solar power, pointing out that if these sources did become useful, the UK would lose its competitive advantages in global industry. He was not aware of the future importance of natural gas or petroleum as prime energy sources since they were developed after his book was published.\n\nRegarding electricity, which he pointed out was not an energy source but a means of energy distribution, Jevons noted that hydroelectric power was feasible but that reservoirs would face the problem of silt build-up. He discounted hydrogen generation as a means of electricity storage and distribution, calculating that the energy density of hydrogen would never make it practical. He predicted that steam would remain the most efficient means of generating electricity.\n\nJevons held that despite the desirability of reducing coal consumption, the outlook for implementing significant constraints was dim. Still, the UK's prosperity should at least be seen as imposing responsibilities on the current generation. In particular, Jevons proposed applying the current wealth to righting social ills and to creating a more just society:\n\"We must begin to allow that we can do today what we cannot so well do tomorrow...\n\n\"Reflection will show that we ought not to think of interfering with the free use of the material wealth which Providence has placed at our disposal, but that our duties wholly consist in the earnest and wise application of it. We may spend it on the one hand in increased luxury and ostentation and corruption, and we shall be blamed. We may spend it on the other hand in raising the social and moral condition of the people, and in reducing the burdens of future generations. Even if our successors be less happily placed than ourselves they will not then blame us.\"\nJevons also articulated several social ills that particularly concerned him:\n\"The ignorance, improvidence, and brutish drunkenness of our lower working classes must be dispelled by a general system of education, which may effect for a future generation what is hopeless for the present generation. One preparatory and indispensable measure, however, is a far more general restriction on the employment of children in manufacture. At present it may almost be said to be profitable to breed little slaves and put them to labour early, so as to get earnings out of them before they have a will of their own. A worse premium upon improvidence and future wretchedness could not be imagined.\"\nAs Jevons predicted, coal production could not grow exponentially forever. UK production peaked in 1913, and the country lost its global superiority to a new giant of energy production, the United States, a turn of events that was also predicted by Jevons. The UK had by then developed oil resources in the Middle East and increasingly used the fuel for power generation.\n\nAlthough UK production could not continue to grow at the annual rate of 3.5%, the world's fossil fuel consumption did grow at this rate until about 1970. According to Jevons, UK coal production in 1865 was estimated as being equal to production in the rest of the world, giving a rough world estimate of 200 million tons. According to the US Department of Energy, global fossil fuel consumption in 1970 was 200 Quad BTU, or 7.2 billion tons coal equivalent. Thus, consumption grew by a factor of 36, representing average annual exponential growth over 105 years of about 3.4%. In the 34 subsequent years, to 2004, consumption grew by a factor of 2.1, or 2.2% per year, an indication, according to organizations such as ASPO that global energy resources are thinning.\n\nThe quantity of the world's remaining energy resources is a matter of dispute and serious concern. Between 2005 and 2007, despite the trebling of oil prices, oil production remained relatively flat, a sign according to many that oil production has peaked. Studies by Dave Rutledge of the California Institute of Technology, and by the Energy Watch Group of Germany indicate that global coal production will also peak within the current generation, perhaps as soon as 2030. A parallel study by the Energy Watch Group also indicates the limited supply of uranium; this report states that like UK coal production 200 years ago, the production of uranium has first targeted high quality ores, and remaining sources are less dense and more difficult to access.\n\nFetter states that at least 230 years of proven uranium reserves are available at present worldwide rates of consumption, and using uranium extraction from seawater, up to 60,000 years of uranium are available. Further, using advanced breeder reactors and nuclear reprocessing, the 230 years of proven uranium reserves may be extended up to 30,000 years; similar gains are achievable from the 60,000 years of uranium reserves from seawater.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15732918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15732918", "title": "The eclipse of Darwinism", "text": "The eclipse of Darwinism\n\nJulian Huxley used the phrase “the eclipse of Darwinism” to describe the state of affairs prior to what he called the modern synthesis, when evolution was widely accepted in scientific circles but relatively few biologists believed that natural selection was its primary mechanism. Historians of science such as Peter J. Bowler have used the same phrase as a label for the period within the history of evolutionary thought from the 1880s to around 1920, when alternatives to natural selection were developed and explored—as many biologists considered natural selection to have been a wrong guess on Charles Darwin's part, or at least as of relatively minor importance. An alternative term, the interphase of Darwinism, has been proposed to avoid the largely incorrect implication that the putative eclipse was preceded by a period of vigorous Darwinian research.\n\nWhile there had been multiple explanations of evolution including vitalism, catastrophism, and structuralism through the 19th century, four major alternatives to natural selection were in play at the turn of the 20th century:\n\n\nTheistic evolution largely disappeared from the scientific literature by the end of the 19th century as direct appeals to supernatural causes came to be seen as unscientific. The other alternatives had significant followings well into the 20th century; mainstream biology largely abandoned them only when developments in genetics made them seem increasingly untenable, and when the development of population genetics and the modern synthesis demonstrated the explanatory power of natural selection. Ernst Mayr wrote that as late as 1930 most textbooks still emphasized such non-Darwinian mechanisms.\n\nEvolution was widely accepted in scientific circles within a few years after the publication of \"On the Origin of Species\", but acceptance of natural selection as its driving mechanism was much less. Six objections were raised to the theory in the 19th century:\n\n\nBoth Darwin and his close supporter Thomas Henry Huxley freely admitted, too, that selection might not be the whole explanation; Darwin was prepared to accept a measure of Lamarckism, while Huxley was comfortable with both sudden (mutational) change and directed (orthogenetic) evolution.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, criticism of natural selection had reached the point that in 1903 the German botanist, , wrote that \"We are now standing at the death bed of Darwinism\", and in 1907 the Stanford University entomologist Vernon Lyman Kellogg, who supported natural selection, asserted that \"... the fair truth is that the Darwinian selection theory, considered with regard to its claimed capacity to be an independently sufficient mechanical explanation of descent, stands today seriously discredited in the biological world.\" He added, however, that there were problems preventing the widespread acceptance of any of the alternatives, as large mutations seemed too uncommon, and there was no experimental evidence of mechanisms that could support either Lamarckism or orthogenesis. Ernst Mayr wrote that a survey of evolutionary literature and biology textbooks showed that as late as 1930 the belief that natural selection was the most important factor in evolution was a minority viewpoint, with only a few population geneticists being strict selectionists.\n\nA variety of different factors motivated people to propose other evolutionary mechanisms as alternatives to natural selection, some of them dating back before Darwin's \"Origin of Species\". Natural selection, with its emphasis on death and competition, did not appeal to some naturalists because they felt it was immoral, and left little room for teleology or the concept of progress in the development of life. Some of these scientists and philosophers, like St. George Jackson Mivart and Charles Lyell, who came to accept evolution but disliked natural selection, raised religious objections. Others, such as Herbert Spencer, the botanist George Henslow (son of Darwin's mentor John Stevens Henslow also a botanist), and Samuel Butler, felt that evolution was an inherently progressive process that natural selection alone was insufficient to explain. Still others, including the American paleontologists Edward Drinker Cope and Alpheus Hyatt, had an idealist perspective and felt that nature, including the development of life, followed orderly patterns that natural selection could not explain.\n\nAnother factor was the rise of a new faction of biologists at the end of the 19th century, typified by the geneticists Hugo DeVries and Thomas Hunt Morgan, who wanted to recast biology as an experimental laboratory science. They distrusted the work of naturalists like Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace, dependent on field observations of variation, adaptation, and biogeography, considering these overly anecdotal. Instead they focused on topics like physiology, and genetics that could be easily investigated with controlled experiments in the laboratory, and discounted natural selection and the degree to which organisms were adapted to their environment, which could not easily be tested experimentally.\n\nBritish science developed in the early 19th century on a basis of natural theology which saw the adaptation of fixed species as evidence that they had been specially created to a purposeful divine design. The philosophical concepts of German idealism inspired concepts of an ordered plan of harmonious creation, which Richard Owen reconciled with natural theology as a pattern of homology showing evidence of design. Similarly, Louis Agassiz saw the recapitulation theory as symbolising a pattern of the sequence of creations in which humanity was the goal of a divine plan. In 1844 \"Vestiges\" adapted Agassiz's concept into theistic evolutionism. Its anonymous author Robert Chambers proposed a \"law\" of divinely ordered progressive development, with transmutation of species as an extension of recapitulation theory. This popularised the idea, but it was strongly condemned by the scientific establishment. Agassiz remained forcefully opposed to evolution, and after he moved to America in 1846 his idealist argument from design of orderly development became very influential. In 1858 Owen cautiously proposed that this development could be a real expression of a continuing creative law, but distanced himself from transmutationists. Two years later in his review of Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" Owen attacked Darwin while at the same time openly supporting evolution, expressing belief in a pattern of transmutation by law-like means. This idealist argument from design was taken up by other naturalists such as George Jackson Mivart, and the Duke of Argyll who rejected natural selection altogether in favor of laws of development that guided evolution down preordained paths.\n\nMany of Darwin's supporters accepted evolution on the basis that it could be reconciled with design. In particular, Asa Gray considered natural selection to be the main mechanism of evolution and sought to reconcile it with natural theology. He proposed that natural selection could be a mechanism in which the problem of evil of suffering produced the greater good of adaptation, but conceded that this had difficulties and suggested that God might influence the variations on which natural selection acted to guide evolution. For Darwin and Thomas Henry Huxley such pervasive supernatural influence was beyond scientific investigation, and George Frederick Wright, an ordained minister who was Gray's colleague in developing theistic evolution, emphasised the need to look for secondary or known causes rather than invoking supernatural explanations: \"If we cease to observe this rule there is an end to all science and all sound science.\"\n\nA secular version of this methodological naturalism was welcomed by a younger generation of scientists who sought to investigate natural causes of organic change, and rejected theistic evolution in science. By 1872 Darwinism in its broader sense of the fact of evolution was accepted as a starting point. Around 1890 only a few older men held onto the idea of design in science, and it had completely disappeared from mainstream scientific discussions by 1900. There was still unease about the implications of natural selection, and those seeking a purpose or direction in evolution turned to neo-Lamarckism or orthogenesis as providing natural explanations.\n\nJean-Baptiste Lamarck had originally proposed a theory on the transmutation of species that was largely based on a progressive drive toward greater complexity. Lamarck also believed, as did many others at the time, that characteristics acquired during the course of an organism's life could be inherited by the next generation, and he saw this as a secondary evolutionary mechanism that produced adaptation to the environment. Typically, such characteristics included changes caused by the use or disuse of a particular organ. It was this mechanism of evolutionary adaptation through the inheritance of acquired characteristics that much later came to be known as Lamarckism. Although Alfred Russel Wallace completely rejected the concept in favor of natural selection, Charles Darwin always included what he called \"Effects of the increased Use and Disuse of Parts, as controlled by Natural Selection\" in \"On the Origin of Species\", giving examples such as large ground feeding birds getting stronger legs through exercise, and weaker wings from not flying until, like the ostrich, they could not fly at all.\n\nIn the late 19th century the term neo-Lamarckism came to be associated with the position of naturalists who viewed the inheritance of acquired characteristics as the most important evolutionary mechanism. Advocates of this position included the British writer and Darwin critic Samuel Butler, the German biologist Ernst Haeckel, the American paleontologists Edward Drinker Cope and Alpheus Hyatt, and the American entomologist Alpheus Packard. They considered Lamarckism to be more progressive and thus philosophically superior to Darwin's idea of natural selection acting on random variation. Butler and Cope both believed that this allowed organisms to effectively drive their own evolution, since organisms that developed new behaviors would change the patterns of use of their organs and thus kick-start the evolutionary process. In addition, Cope and Haeckel both believed that evolution was a progressive process. The idea of linear progress was an important part of Haeckel's recapitulation theory of evolution, which held that the embryological development of an organism repeats its evolutionary history. Cope and Hyatt looked for, and thought they found, patterns of linear progression in the fossil record. Packard argued that the loss of vision in the blind cave insects he studied was best explained through a Lamarckian process of atrophy through disuse combined with inheritance of acquired characteristics. Packard also wrote a book about Lamarck and his writings.\n\nMany American proponents of neo-Lamarckism were strongly influenced by Louis Agassiz and a number of them, including Hyatt and Packard, were his students. Agassiz had an idealistic view of nature, connected with natural theology, that emphasized the importance of order and pattern. Agassiz never accepted evolution; his followers did, but they continued his program of searching for orderly patterns in nature, which they considered to be consistent with divine providence, and preferred evolutionary mechanisms like neo-Lamarckism and orthogenesis that would be likely to produce them.\n\nIn Britain the botanist George Henslow, the son of Darwin's mentor John Stevens Henslow, was an important advocate of neo-Lamarckism. He studied how environmental stress affected the development of plants, and he wrote that the variations induced by such environmental factors could largely explain evolution. The historian of science Peter J. Bowler writes that, as was typical of many 19th century Lamarckians, Henslow did not appear to understand the need to demonstrate that such environmentally induced variations would be inherited by descendants that developed in the absence of the environmental factors that produced them, but merely assumed that they would be.\n\nCritics of neo-Lamarckism pointed out that no one had ever produced solid evidence for the inheritance of acquired characteristics. The experimental work of the German biologist August Weismann resulted in the germ plasm theory of inheritance. This led him to declare that inheritance of acquired characteristics was impossible, since the Weismann barrier would prevent any changes that occurred to the body after birth from being inherited by the next generation. This effectively polarised the argument between the Darwinians and the neo-Lamarckians, as it forced people to choose whether to agree or disagree with Weismann and hence with evolution by natural selection. Despite Weismann's criticism, neo-Lamarckism remained the most popular alternative to natural selection at the end of the 19th century, and would remain the position of some naturalists well into the 20th century.\n\nAs a consequence of the debate over the viability of neo-Lamarckism, in 1896 James Mark Baldwin, Henry Fairfield Osborne and C. Lloyd Morgan all independently proposed a mechanism where new learned behaviors could cause the evolution of new instincts and physical traits through natural selection without resort to the inheritance of acquired characteristics. They proposed that if individuals in a species benefited from learning a particular new behavior, the ability to learn that behavior could be favored by natural selection, and the end result would be the evolution of new instincts and eventually new physical adaptations. This became known as the Baldwin effect and it has remained a topic of debate and research in evolutionary biology ever since.\n\nOrthogenesis was the theory that life has an innate tendency to change, in a unilinear fashion in a particular direction. The term was popularized by Theodor Eimer, a German zoologist, in his 1898 book \"On Orthogenesis: And the Impotence of Natural Selection in Species Formation\". He had studied the coloration of butterflies, and believed he had discovered non-adaptive features which could not be explained by natural selection. Eimer also believed in Lamarckian inheritance of acquired characteristics, but he felt that internal laws of growth determine which characteristics would be acquired and guided the long term direction of evolution down certain paths.\n\nOrthogenesis had a significant following in the 19th century, its proponents including the Russian biologist Leo S. Berg, and the American paleontologist Henry Fairfield Osborn. Orthogenesis was particularly popular among some paleontologists, who believed that the fossil record showed patterns of gradual and constant unidirectional change. Those who accepted this idea, however, did not necessarily accept that the mechanism driving orthogenesis was teleological (goal-directed). They did believe that orthogenetic trends were non-adaptive; in fact they felt that in some cases they led to developments that were detrimental to the organism, such as the large antlers of the Irish elk that they believed led to the animal's extinction.\n\nSupport for orthogenesis began to decline during the modern synthesis in the 1940s, when it became apparent that orthogenesis could not explain the complex branching patterns of evolution revealed by statistical analysis of the fossil record by paleontologists. A few biologists however hung on to the idea of orthogenesis as late as the 1950s, claiming that the processes of macroevolution, the long term trends in evolution, were distinct from the processes of microevolution.\n\nMutationism was the idea that new forms and species arose in a single step as a result of large mutations. It was seen as a much faster alternative to the Darwinian concept of a gradual process of small random variations being acted on by natural selection. It was popular with early geneticists such as Hugo de Vries, who along with Carl Correns helped rediscover Gregor Mendel's laws of inheritance in 1900, William Bateson a British zoologist who switched to genetics, and early in his career, Thomas Hunt Morgan.\n\nThe 1901 mutation theory of evolution held that species went through periods of rapid mutation, possibly as a result of environmental stress, that could produce multiple mutations, and in some cases completely new species, in a single generation. Its originator was the Dutch botanist Hugo de Vries. De Vries looked for evidence of mutation extensive enough to produce a new species in a single generation and thought he found it with his work breeding the evening primrose of the genus \"Oenothera\", which he started in 1886. The plants that de Vries worked with seemed to be constantly producing new varieties with striking variations in form and color, some of which appeared to be new species because plants of the new generation could only be crossed with one another, not with their parents. DeVries himself allowed a role for natural selection in determining which new species would survive, but some geneticists influenced by his work, including Morgan, felt that natural selection was not necessary at all. De Vries's ideas were influential in the first two decades of the 20th century, as some biologists felt that mutation theory could explain the sudden emergence of new forms in the fossil record; research on \"Oenothera\" spread across the world. However, critics including many field naturalists wondered why no other organism seemed to show the same kind of rapid mutation.\n\nMorgan was a supporter of de Vries's mutation theory and was hoping to gather evidence in favor of it when he started working with the fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\" in his lab in 1907. However, it was a researcher in that lab, Hermann Joseph Muller, who determined in 1918 that the new varieties de Vries had observed while breeding \"Oenothera\" were the result of polyploid hybrids rather than rapid genetic mutation. While they were doubtful of the importance of natural selection, the work of geneticists like Morgan, Bateson, de Vries and others from 1900 to 1915 established Mendelian genetics linked to chromosomal inheritance, which validated August Weismann's criticism of neo-Lamarckian evolution by discounting the inheritance of acquired characteristics. The work in Morgan's lab with \"Drosophila\" also undermined the concept of orthogenesis by demonstrating the random nature of mutation.\n\nDuring the period 1916–1932, the discipline of population genetics developed largely through the work of the geneticists Ronald Fisher, J.B.S. Haldane, and Sewall Wright. Their work recognized that the vast majority of mutations produced small effects that served to increase the genetic variability of a population rather than creating new species in a single step as the mutationists assumed. They were able to produce statistical models of population genetics that included Darwin's concept of natural selection as the driving force of evolution.\n\nDevelopments in genetics persuaded field naturalists such as Bernhard Rensch and Ernst Mayr to abandon neo-Lamarckian ideas about evolution in the early 1930s. By the late 1930s, Mayr and Theodosius Dobzhansky had synthesized the ideas of population genetics with the knowledge of field naturalists about the amount of genetic diversity in wild populations, and the importance of genetically distinct subpopulations (especially when isolated from one another by geographical barriers) to create the early 20th century modern synthesis. In 1944 George Gaylord Simpson integrated paleontology into the synthesis by statistically analyzing the fossil record to show that it was consistent with the branching non-directional form of evolution predicted by the modern synthesis, and in particular that the linear trends cited by earlier paleontologists in support of Lamarckism and orthogenesis did not stand up to careful analysis. Mayr wrote that by the end of the synthesis natural selection together with chance mechanisms like genetic drift had become the universal explanation for evolutionary change.\n\nThe concept of eclipse suggests that Darwinian research paused, implying in turn that there had been a preceding period of vigorously Darwinian activity among biologists. However, historians of science such as Mark Largent have argued that while biologists broadly accepted the extensive evidence for evolution presented in \"The Origin of Species\", there was less enthusiasm for natural selection as a mechanism. Biologists instead looked for alternative explanations more in keeping with their worldviews, which included the beliefs that evolution must be directed and that it constituted a form of progress. Further, the idea of a dark eclipse period was convenient to scientists such as Julian Huxley, who wished to paint the modern synthesis as a bright new achievement, and accordingly to depict the preceding period as dark and confused. Huxley's 1942 book \"\" therefore, argued Largent, suggested that the so-called modern synthesis began after a long period of eclipse lasting until the 1930s, in which Mendelians, neo-Lamarckians, mutationists, and Weismannians, not to mention experimental embryologists and Haeckelian recapitulationists fought running battles with each other. The idea of an eclipse also allowed Huxley to step aside from what was to him the inconvenient association of evolution with aspects such as social Darwinism, eugenics, imperialism, and militarism. Accounts such as Michael Ruse's very large book \"Monad to Man\" ignored, claimed Largent, almost all the early 20th century American evolutionary biologists. Largent has suggested as an alternative to eclipse a biological metaphor, the interphase of Darwinism, interphase being an apparently quiet period in the cycle of cell division and growth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3151205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3151205", "title": "Theophile Meek", "text": "Theophile Meek\n\nA scholar at the University of Toronto, Theophile James Meek (1881–1966) published widely on archaeology, corresponded with Wm. F. Albright, and was a frequent contributor to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" on subjects related to the archaeology of both Palestine and Egypt. He may have played a part in working out the chronology of Egypt which soon became the prevailing mainstream chronology among scholars, and which the Encyclopedia Americana still upholds today. More recently, the Britannica has lowered its dates somewhat currently, with Manfred Bietak, an eminent Egyptologist placing them even later.\n\nIn the book \"Hebrew Origins\", he suggested that the Conquest of Palestine occurred in two phases: the first being represented by the settlement of the central highlands seen at 1400 BCE, and the second being seen archaeologically in the conquests of the \"Joshua\" cities, then dated to around 1250. He pointed out that the Song of Deborah (Judges ch. 5) does not seem to know the three Judah territory tribes, but early stages of Joshua do, and that they were thus perhaps transposed in time.\n\nHe is also widely cited for having suggested that the \"Song of Songs\" (a.k.a. the \"Song of Solomon\") had striking similarities with a Babylonian fertility myth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52660103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52660103", "title": "Thomas Edgar Pemberton", "text": "Thomas Edgar Pemberton\n\nThomas Edgar Pemberton (1 July 1849 – 28 September 1905) was an English novelist, playwright and theatrical historian.\n\nBorn on 1 July 1849, he was the eldest son of Thomas Pemberton, the head of an old-established firm of brass founders in Livery Street, Birmingham. A brother was the novelist Max Pemberton. (The earlier actor and lecturer Charles Reece Pemberton was of the same family.) After education at schools in Edgbaston, Pemberton at nineteen entered his father's firm, and in due course gained control of the business, with which he was connected until 1900.\n\nPemberton married on 11 March 1873, in the Old Meeting House, Birmingham, Mary Elizabeth, second daughter of Edward Richard Patie Townley of Edgbaston.\n\nOf literary taste from youth, Pemberton long divided his time between commerce and varied literary endeavours. His novels \"Charles Lysaght: a Novel devoid of Novelty\" (1873) and \"Under Pressure\" (1874) were less well regarded than his later novel \"A Very Old Question\" (3 volumes, 1877). There followed \"Born to Blush Unseen\" (1879) and an allegorical fairytale, \"Fair-brass\", written for his children.\n\nAt his father's house he met in youth Edward Askew Sothern, Madge Kendal and other players on visits to Birmingham, and he soon tried his hand at drama. His comedietta \"Weeds\", the first of a long list of ephemeral pieces, mainly farcical, was written for the Kendals, and produced at the Prince of Wales's Theatre, Birmingham, opening on 16 November 1874. His many plays were rarely seen outside provincial theatres.\n\nHe came to know Bret Harte, and his successful play \"Sue\" was adapted with Bret Harte's collaboration from the latter's story \"The Judgment of Bolinas Plain\". It was produced in America in 1896, and in London at the Garrick Theatre, opening on 10 June 1898. \"Held Up\", a four-act play by Harte and Pemberton, was produced at the Worcester Theatre, opening on 24 August 1903. On Bret Harte's death in 1902, Pemberton wrote \"Bret Harte: a Treatise and a Tribute.\"\n\nHe succeeded his friend Sam Timmins as the drama critic of the \"Birmingham Daily Post\" from 1882 until he retired to Broadway, Worcestershire in 1900.\n\nPemberton published \"Dickens's London\" (1875), \"Charles Dickens and the Stage\" (1888), and \"The Birmingham Theatres: a Local Retrospect\" (1889). He made his widest reputation as a theatrical biographer, writing memoirs of Edward Askew Sothern (1889), the Kendals (1891), T. W. Robertson (1892), John Hare (1895), Ellen Terry and her sisters (1902), and Sir Charles Wyndham (1905). He was personally familiar with most of his subjects.\n\nPemberton frequently lectured on theatrical subjects. In 1889 he was elected a governor of the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre, Stratford-on-Avon, and showed much interest in its work.\n\nHe died after a long illness at his home in Broadway on 28 September 1905, and was buried in the churchyard there. His wife survived him, with two sons and three daughters.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "2943691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2943691", "title": "Timeline of Yugoslavia", "text": "Timeline of Yugoslavia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37756941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37756941", "title": "Vladimir Kobrin", "text": "Vladimir Kobrin\n\nVladimir Borisovich Kobrin (Владимир Борисович Кобрин; 1930-1990) was a leading authority on the aristocracy of late medieval Russia.\n\nHe graduated from the Moscow University in 1951 and continued Stepan Veselovsky's studies of medieval Russian aristocracy after the latter's death in 1952. He viewed the Oprichnina as a prop for Ivan IV's dictatorship and described it as a social catastrophe. Kobrin's popular biography of Ivan the Terrible was published in 1989.\n\nAfter the Perestroika was launched in 1985, Kobrin was involved in the publication of A. A. Zimin's controversial manuscripts.\n"}
{"id": "2118685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118685", "title": "Walter of Coventry", "text": "Walter of Coventry\n\nWalter of Coventry (fl. 1290), English monk and chronicler, who was apparently connected with a religious house in the province of York, is known to us only through the historical compilation which bears his name, the \"Memoriale fratris Walteri de Coventria\".\n\nThe word \"Memoriale\" is usually taken to mean \"commonplace book.\" Some critics interpret it in the sense of \"a souvenir,\" and argue that Walter was not the author but merely the donor of the book; but the weight of authority is against this view. The author of the \"Memoriale\" lived in the reign of Edward I, and mentions the homage done to Edward as overlord of Scotland (1291).\n\nSince the main narrative extends only to 1225, the \"Memoriale\" is emphatically a second-hand production. But for the years 1201-1225 it is a faithful transcript of a contemporary chronicle, the work of a Barnwell canon. A complete text of the Barnwell chronicle is preserved in the College of Arms' (Heralds' College, manuscript 10) but has never yet been printed, though it was collated by Bishop Stubbs for his edition of the Memoriale. The Barnwell annalist, living in Cambridgeshire, was well situated to observe the events of the barons' war, and is our most valuable authority for that important crisis.\n\nHe is less hostile to King John than are Ralph of Coggeshall, Roger of Wendover and Matthew Paris. He praises the king's management of the Welsh and Scottish wars; he is critical in his attitude towards the pope and the English opposition; he regards the submission of John to Rome as a skilful stroke of policy, although he notes the fact that some men called it a humiliation. The constitutional agitation of 1215 does not arouse his enthusiasm; he passes curtly over the Runnymede conference, barely mentions Magna Carta, and blames the barons for the resumption of war. It may be from timidity that the annalist avoids attacking John, but it is more probable that the middle classes, whom he represents, regarded the designs of the feudal baronage with suspicion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2353975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2353975", "title": "Warsaw Uprising Museum", "text": "Warsaw Uprising Museum\n\nThe Warsaw Uprising Museum (named Warsaw Rising Museum, ), in the Wola district of Warsaw, Poland, is dedicated to the Warsaw Uprising of 1944. The institution of the museum was established in 1983, but no construction work took place for many years. It opened on July 31, 2004, marking the 60th anniversary of the uprising.\n\nThe museum sponsors research into the history of the uprising, and the history and possessions of the Polish Underground State. It collects and maintains hundreds of artifacts — ranging from weapons used by the insurgents to love letters — to present a full picture of the people involved. The museum's stated goals include the creation of an archive of historical information on the uprising and the recording of the stories and memories of living participants. Its director is Jan Ołdakowski, with historian Dariusz Gawin from the Polish Academy of Sciences as his deputy.\n\nThe museum is a member organisation of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience.\n\nThe museum covers all aspects of the Warsaw Uprising.\n\nThere are exhibits over several floors, containing photographs, audio and video, interactive displays, artifacts, written accounts, and other testimonies of how life was during the German occupation of Warsaw, the uprising, and its aftermath. There are displays dedicated to each district of Warsaw. There are many free informative leaflets and flyers (in Polish and English), including 63 calendar pages covering the dates from 1 August 1944 to 2 October 1944— each containing a summary of the most important events that took place on that particular day of the uprising.\n\nSome of the many sections and exhibits include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29232159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29232159", "title": "Youssouf Gueye", "text": "Youssouf Gueye\n\nTène Youssouf Gueye (1928 in Kaédi – 1988) was a Mauritanian French language poet and historian.\n\nHe was President of the Mauritanian Writers Association and became an important civil servant after the independence of his country. He was in prison because of his critical opinions against the Mauritanian government; he died there in 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9591463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9591463", "title": "Zachar Šybieka", "text": "Zachar Šybieka\n\nDr. Prof. Zachar Vasiljevič Šybieka (, ; born July 30, 1948) is a Belarusian historian and professor.\n\nŠybieka was born on July 30, 1948 in the village of Asinauka, Belitskiy Rural Council of the Sennenskiy Region in the Vitebsk Region of the Byelorussian SSR. \n\nIn 1972, he graduated from the history department of Belarusian State University, where in 1977 he defended his candidate's dissertation, and in 1998 his doctor's dissertation. In 2003 he was designated a professor.\n\nŠybieka worked as a teacher of history (1972–1974), then as a research fellow at the History Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic (1974–1991), and as director of the Department of Belarusian Studies at the Francysk Skaryna National Education Center (1991–1998).\n\nIn 1999 he became director of National Museum of History and Culture of the Republic of Belarus.\n\nSince the year 2000, he has served as a professor at the Belarusian State Economic University, in the Department of Economic History.\n\nFrom September 2001 to September 2002, he simultaneously served as editor-in-chief of \"Spadčyna\" (\"Heritage\") magazine.\n\nŠybieka's main areas of expertise are Minsk from the second half of the 19th century through the beginning of the 20th century, Belarusian cities between during the time of 1861-1904, and the Belarusian national movement of the 19th to 20th centuries. \n\nHe has more than 200 scholarly publications. His work on Belarusian History in the 19th to 20th centuries received an award from the Polish magazine \"Przegląd Wschodni\" in 2001, and also, in 2003, the Francysk Bogushevich Prize of the Belarusian PEN Center.\n\nHe is a member of International Association for Belarusian Studies (IAB) and of the Belarusian Historical Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6035148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6035148", "title": "Zorka Parvanova", "text": "Zorka Parvanova\n\nZorka Petrova Parvanova () (born 4 May 1958 in Razlog) is a Bulgarian historian and former First Lady of Bulgaria from 2002 until 2012. She is the wife of Georgi Parvanov, the former President of Bulgaria.\n\nParavanova was born 4 May 1958 in Razlog.\n\nParvanova is married to Georgi Parvanov. They have two sons, Vladimir and Ivaylo.\n\nHer education includes a degree from Sofia University in the field of History and Ethnography received in 1982. In addition she received a Ph.D. in History in 1989.\n\n\n"}
