{"id": "16041867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16041867", "title": "2008 Armenian presidential election protests", "text": "2008 Armenian presidential election protests\n\nA series of mass protests were held in Armenia in the wake of the Armenian presidential election of 19 February 2008. Mass protests against alleged electoral fraud were held in the capital city of Yerevan and organised by supporters of the unsuccessful presidential candidate and first President of the Republic of Armenia, Levon Ter-Petrosyan.\n\nThe protests began on 20 February, lasted for 10 days in Yerevan's Freedom Square, and involved tens of thousands of demonstrators during the day and hundreds camping out overnight. Despite the urges of the government to stop the demonstrations, the protests continued until 1 March. After nine days of peaceful protests at the Freedom Square, the national police and military forces tried to disperse the protesters on 1 March. On the morning of 1 March, police and army units dispersed the 700–1,000 persons who remained overnight, beating them with truncheons and electric-shock devices. As a result, 10 people were killed. As of 4 March, many protesters were still missing. On 1 March, Ter-Petrosyan was placed under \"de facto\" house arrest.\n\nAt noon on 1 March, a crowd of at least 10,000 protesters held a rally in front of the . Police officers pulled away from the area by 16:00, as they were overwhelmed by the growing number of demonstrators. Activists then used abandoned police buses to set up barricades. In the evening, clashes broke out between riot police and about 2,000 protesters who barricaded themselves at Miasnikyan Square. At around 22:00, President Robert Kocharyan, with the approval of the Armenian parliament, declared a 20-day state of emergency, banning future demonstrations and censoring the media from broadcasting any political news except those issued by official state press releases. Kocharian justified the decision on the grounds that a minority of demonstrators looted a nearby grocery store on Mashtots Avenue and set fire to a handful of police vehicles and buses (while the riot police, special forces and army looked on from 1 km away from Shahumyan Square without intervening). Opposition leaders say that the looters had nothing to do with the demonstration, and that they were led by \"agent provocateurs\". With the state of emergency in effect, at around 4:00 on 2 March, Levon Ter-Petrosyan asked the protesters near the French Embassy to go home, thus ending the protests.\n\nThe tragic events of 1 March 2008 are simply referred to as \"Marti mek\" ( \"March First\") in Armenia.\n\nLevon Ter-Petrosyan was the President of Armenia from 16 October 1991 to 3 February 1998. Ter-Petrosyan was forced to step down in February 1998 for a number of reasons, including allegations of election fraud and generally having lost support in the parliament. He was succeeded by his then Prime Minister Robert Kocharyan. Kocharyan was re-elected for a second term as president on 5 March 2003 amid allegations of electoral fraud. In early 2004 there were demonstrations by opposition-led protestors and calls for Kocharyan's resignation. Kocharyan completed his second term as president on February 2008 and under the Armenian constitution was not eligible for a third term. Kocharyan's Prime Minister Serge Sargsyan had Kocharyan's backing for his candidacy as the next president. Ter-Petrosyan was also a candidate for this election, having announced his candidacy during a speech in Yerevan on 26 October 2007, in which he accused Kocharyan's government of massive corruption involving the theft of \"at least three to four billion dollars\" over the previous five years. The election was held on 19 February 2008 and Sargsyan won the election with 53% of the vote, according to official results, with Ter-Petrosyan in second place with 22% of the vote. Under Armenia's electoral law, if neither candidate wins at least 50% of the votes, the top two contenders have to face each other in a second round of the elections. International observers from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, PACE and the European Parliament had said that \"the presidential election in Armenia mostly satisfied the international standards\".\n\nThe protests began on 20 February; about 25,000 opposition supporters were reportedly present on 21 February. Ter-Petrosyan said that the army would not act against the protesters, claiming to have the support of two deputy defense ministers. An aide to Ter-Petrosyan vowed that the protests would continue \"nonstop\" and demanded that the government agree to holding a new election by 22 February. On 21 February, two members of the Central Election Commission who are representatives of the opposition said that they did not accept the results, and on the next day, Vahan Hovhannisian resigned from his position as deputy speaker of National Assembly of Armenia due to his disapproval of the handling of the election and said that the mechanism of falsifications were put in operation in 1996 by Ter-Petrosyan. Protests continued on 22 February, and Deputy Prosecutor-General Gagik Jhangirian condemned the election, urging the people to act immediately to defend their votes, rather than complaining later about the government's behavior. A spokesperson for Prosecutor-General Aghvan Hovsepian asked Kocharyan to dismiss Jhangirian because prosecutors cannot be members of any party or to be involved in politics in any way The Defense Ministry denied Ter-Petrosyan's claim that the two deputy defense ministers had said that they would prevent the army from being used against the protesters, but the veterans' group Yerkrapah disputed this denial.\n\nProtests were held without an official permission. Part of the cause for the protest were oppositions claim that there were widespread violations, and the suppression of this belief. Armenian Public Television (H1) has received criticism for failing to show the intense protesting, instead promoting a peaceful aura following the election.\n\nOn the third day of the protests, 22 February, the number of protesters was reported as about 30,000. Sarkisyan called the protests \"blackmail' and said that if they violated the law, order would be restored through force. The opposition's Alexander Arzoumanian, however, said that the government did not have the courage to attempt to break up the protests. On 23 February, the number of protesters was reported as about 50,000. Kocharyan accused the opposition of trying to seize power and warned that the government would act to preserve order. Meanwhile, the police released a statement saying that they were \"prepared to resolutely respond to any attempts to disturb public order and destabilize the situation, prevent extremist manifestations, and protect people's constitutional rights\". The statement denied the rumored resignation of police chief .\n\nJhangirian was dismissed as Deputy Prosecutor-General by Kocharyan on 23 February and detained later that day. On 27 February Gagik Jahangiryan was arrested and accused of violating the article 235.1 of the Armenia Penal Code (illegal purchase, traffic and storage of weapons, explosive assemblies) and article 316.1 (application of force against a public agent).\n\n25 February saw steady numbers of protesters at Opera Square during the day, estimated at 40,000–50,000. Ter-Petrosyan made several appearances, and in each called for a peaceful rally, frequently alluding to the late-1980s when the Karabakh Committee was arrested by the Soviets. Ter-Petrosyan said that he does not fear arrest nor assassination, and that if the ruling party had him killed, it would only accelerate its own demise. Also on 25 February, Sarkis Hatspanian, a diasporan Armenian from France, spoke twice, and alluded to the participation of Armenians in revolutionary movements in France and Germany, and how the turn has come for Armenia. Around 10–15,000 people continued to participate in the rally well into midnight, some staying overnight in tents.\n\nOn 26 February, there were widespread reports that high school administrators had been directed by the ruling party to have their students participate in a pro-Sargsyan rally held in Republic Square. Many e-mail services had been blocked since the morning of 26 February, including Hotmail, Gmail, and thick-client email programs using the IMAP protocol.\n\nSeveral prominent supporters of Ter-Petrosyan were arrested on 26 February. On that day competing rallies were held, with Sargysan's supporters reported to number up to 100,000. Ter-Petrosyan claimed that the numbers attending his rally had doubled because people were leaving Sargysan's rally to come to his. Meanwhile, the National Security Service said that it had prevented an opposition plot to seize a television broadcasting tower in Yerevan; it said that the purpose of this alleged plot, for which several people were arrested, was to enable Ter-Petrosyan to make a live broadcast. An opposition spokesman dismissed this as \"psychological pressure\". Also on 26 February, Kocharyan suggested that his government's patience with the protests had \"a limit\" and urged people to \"come to their senses\".\n\nOn 27 February, an even larger group of protesters than previous days marched on the streets along Abovian and Mashdots Avenue. The evening again saw protester numbers in the tens of thousands, with an increasing number of tents. The crowd was mixed, there were groups of villagers (tens in each), students, families with children, government workers, in addition to opposition leaders. At around 11:30 pm some protesters started to rush towards the café adjacent to Freedom Square named \"Karapi Lij\" (Swan Lake). A protest leader announced that all available journalists should go there to photograph \"something interesting\" that was about to happen, and also called for the general populace to return to the square. Several score of military police, civil police, as well as secret police went into the subterranean café, emerging after 15–20 minutes with 3 arrested suspects who were secret \"agent provocateurs\" with undercover recording equipment trying to get opposition leaders (who were in the café) to say or perform illegal acts. Armenia's National Security Service (NSS) acknowledged that the agents urging the opposition leaders to resort to violence were its employees. Secret police (which outnumbered uniformed police and military 3 to 1) would not allow journalists to take pictures, however some were able to (despite their threats of impending danger to journalists' personal safety or destruction of their cameras). The rally later continued without interruption.\n\nOn 28 February, starting from the morning, police cars surrounded the streets around Freedom Square, not allowing passengers to be dropped off or picked up, let alone to park.\n\nOn 29 February, another march around town attracted an even larger group of ralliers, with at least 100,000 participants. At night, there were 132 tents set up in Freedom Square and occupied by 24-hour protesters.\n\nOn 1 March, at 7:30 am, Armenian security forces violently dispersed the protesters, who were then reported to number about 700–1,000, and broke up a tented camp being used by the protesters in Freedom Square. Witnesses say that the government authorities planted guns and grenades among the sleeping protesters, and then claiming that they were thwarting an attempted coup, attacked the protesters. Police used bludgeons and electric shockers to beat and electrocute the ralliers. Levon Ter-Petrosyan was captured at Freedom Square and placed under house arrest. Some fled when police attacked them. Dozens were reported to have sustained severe injuries and more than 100 protesters were arrested. A witness told Human Rights Watch that several rows of Special Forces in riot armor, with helmets, plastic shields and rubber truncheons, started approaching from the left and right sides of Freedom Square. The witness said that police, without prior warning, sprayed water and descended on the demonstrators, using rubber truncheons and electric prods. \"People started running towards Northern Avenue, but were chased by the police.\"\nBy 11:00 am, Freedom Square was completely cordoned off by police and large water cannons were being used to clear the site of debris and blood (with riot police trying to prevent passersby from taking photographs). The Karapi Lich café was cordoned off with a large canvas so that it could not be seen what took place inside.\n\nAt about 11:30 am, a peaceful march of about 1,000 people from near Freedom Square, down North Avenue, and to the French Embassy at Miyasnikyan Square (where riot police were quickly redeployed to). By 1:30 pm, a police armored personnel carrier was brought in, which the growing crowd quickly surrounded. By 2 pm, about 150,000 protesters—larger than on any other day—had gathered in the square. By that time there were about 3,000 riot police and special police forces present. The sheer number of protesters outnumbered the police, who were forced by the peaceful protesters to retreat. By 5 pm, all armored personnel carriers and all other military special vehicles as well as troops had been evacuated from the square. Protesters gradually confiscated the remaining buses and moved them to strategic locations to block incoming traffic to the square. It is notable that several \"agent provocateurs\" were detected by the crowd and swiftly removed. At around 3:30 pm, an unmarked white police car drove straight through the crowd at high speed. At least two women were run over and taken to hospital with injuries. The car was stopped by the crowd and set afire, as the policeman driving it fled the scene.\n\nAs of 6:30 pm, at least 30 buses, each with about 30 army soldiers armed with AK-47 and M-16 assault rifles, were seen near Republic Square (in anticipation of Kocharian's state of emergency).\n\nAround 10:30 pm, Kocharyan declared a 20-day state of emergency. This meant that \"all rallies and other public gatherings will be banned in Yerevan until March 20. It also places serious restrictions on press freedom, with local media outlets allowed to report only official news communiqués.\"\n\nClashes between the police and security forces and agitated protesters seem to have occurred on at least three occasions during the course of 1 March: The first in the morning hours, the second at around 9:15 pm, and the third late night. According to eyewitnesses (among them an RFE/RL correspondent) security forces—without prior warning—fired tracer bullets over the crowd for more than 40 minutes in an attempt to disperse the crowd (this is confirmed in an independent YouTube video). In the meantime, a unit of riot troops charged towards one of the barricades but fled the scene after unsuccessful pitched battles with opposition supporters who were armed with sticks, stones and Molotov cocktails.\n\nShortly after the event, a controversial independent video appeared on YouTube showing special forces firing automatic weapons directly into the crowd, directly followed by a clip in which the Prosecutor General's press secretary (Sona Truzyan) claims that police did not fire any weapons into the crowd. Government sources claimed that the video footage was faked and that it was digitally doctored.\n\nBy 12:00 am, the area around the French embassy had only about 5,000 activists left. The police stood about 1/2 km north at Shahumyan Square, passively watching as anarchy reigned on the area below. Miyasnikyan square to Mashdots Avenue was completely devoid of any law enforcement, and authorities watched passively as some of the crowd looted some stores. Despite calls from opposition leaders throughout the demonstrations to restrain the use of violence, some in the crowd (allegedly encouraged by \"agent provocateurs\") resorted to property destruction (of cars, windows, public places) and looting of a grocery store and a shoe store. (ArmeniaNow reports that the 2 pharmacies and 4 electronics and computer stores were not looted.) By 1:00 am, several buses and cars had been destroyed, set ablaze, or turned over near Miyasnikyan square. By 2:30 am, some of the bus loads of army soldiers were bused into Shahumyan square to join rows of riot police. Demonstrators were seen armed with metal bars (removed from park gates) and Molotov cocktails made from water bottles.\n\nMany of the demonstrators were not there to specifically support Levon Ter-Petrosyan, but were there to show their support for a change in government. Only a minority of the group resorted to looting, and most of the crowd stayed within the vicinity of Miyasnikyan Square.\n\nOfficial reports say that ten people died on the night of 1 March; however, according to representatives of non-governmental organizations, the official number of injured civilians may be underreported, as several of those injured were turned away from hospitals and medical clinics on 1 March. According to the information given by the Head of Police and Prosecutor General, a police officer died trying to prevent a hand grenade from going off. Three civilians died from teargas cartridge and four from bullets. The Prosecutor General stated that the ammunitions had penetrated the bodies, which appears to indicate that they must have been fired at a very close range.\n\nAccording to the Head of Police some protesters were armed with wooden sticks, iron sticks and \"hedgehogs\". He also stated that the protesters used fire arms – but this was contested by the representatives of the opposition who met with the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights.\n\nAs of 9 am, Ter-Petrosyan urged his supporters to go home from the protest, citing Kocharian's state of emergency. The government alleged that protesters were carrying firearms. However, other than metal bars and some Molotov cocktails, no reporters had seen arms in the possession of protesters.\n\nBy 11 am, at least a dozen army armored personnel carriers and about 500 soldiers wielding assault rifles were positioned in Republic Square, maintaining the state of emergency's policy of a ban on public demonstrations and meetings. The stage at Freedom Square has been surrounded by 6 army transportation trucks. Photography was strictly prohibited.\n\nYerevan was said to be all but a ghost town, with soldiers outnumbering citizens.\n\nThe National Assembly confirmed Kocharyan's state of emergency, with 81 of the 131 members of parliament present voting in favor of it.\n\nFollowing the end of the state of emergency, thousands of people in Yerevan held a candlelight vigil for the victims of 1 March and a silent protest on 21 March 2008 to protest the 106 protesters who had been arrested in the original protests. Their plan was to assemble at Freedom Square at 3 pm and hold a candlelight vigil there for those who died on 1 March, followed by a silent protest from 5 pm to 7 pm of a single line stretching from Freedom Square, down Northern Avenue, to Myasnikian Square. However, riot police confronted the protesters and used force to disperse them. Senior police officers told protesters to leave the area and cross the streets surrounding it, citing a continuing government ban on rallies. \"Ten people standing together means a rally, and I have the right to disperse a rally,\" Major-General Sasha Afian, deputy chief of Armenia's Police Service, told a group of angry women.\n\nFreedom Square was occupied by busloads of police and interior troops who prevented citizens to enter Freedom Square; Shahumyan Square and Myasnikian Square similarly had rows of riot police who prevented a public assembly in the area. At 7 p.m. the assembled crowds of silent protesters dispersed as planned. Although the state of emergency has been lifted by law, the ban on public rallies is de facto still in place.\n\nOn the same day, the following campaign team members of Levon Ter-Petrosyan were taken into custody: Vardan Galstyan, Davit Tzaghikyan, Onik Hakobyan, Suren Sujyan, Edvard Sarajanyan and Hakob Semirjyan.\n\nRiot police continue to block public access to Freedom Square, Shahumyan Square, and Myasnikian Square; they were also in formation at Republic Square. Police dispersed a growing crowd—mostly composed of women—that was assembling at Northern Avenue. A Reuters reporter was notified by the police that any attempt by the public to hold a similar \"silent protest\" as the day before would be met by resistance from the police.\n\nLate in the evening on 1 March, President Kocharian declared a State of Emergency in the capital Yerevan for twenty days. The National Parliament endorsed the Presidential decree on Declaration of state of emergency the following day, 2 March. The State of Emergency entered into force immediately. The decree established the following temporary limitations under the State of Emergency:\n\nThe Armenian military is maintaining a strict ban on public gatherings of even the smallest size.\n\nUnder the state of emergency, mass media can only publish official government news.\n\nSeveral opposition media have been shut down, including \"A1plus\" and \"Haykakan Zhamanak\".\n\nRadio Free Europe/Radio Liberty's Armenia Liberty radio service has been terminated by the Armenian authorities. The radio service's airings were at first accessible from their website at http://www.armenialiberty.org, but since 6 March even this website has been blocked by the Armenian government.\n\nIn the evening of 2 March, the Internet Society of Armenia (ISOC) froze the Internet domain name server entries in its DNS servers for several domains, including:\n\nThe YouTube web site was blocked from 6 to 13 March; all IP addresses of https://www.youtube.com (208.65.153.253, 208.65.153.238, and 208.65.153.251) were unreachable from within Armenia during this time. YouTube hosts a1plusnews as well as ArmeniaLiberty Channel in addition to numerous eyewitness videos of the events of 1 and 2 March.\n\nAs of the evening of 6 March, the IP addresses hosting the following web sites have been blocked by Armenian authorities:\n\nAs of 7 March, the websites of RFE/RL and Armenia Liberty were once again accessible from within Armenia, but as of the morning of 8 March, they are once again inaccessible.\nAs of May 2009, several major websites were still blocked and/or disabled.\n\nThe President Elect Sargsian, during his meeting with EU special envoy for the South Caucasus Peter Semneby, said \"We are ready to cooperate with all those who wants Armenia to develop, its citizens to prosper, the country to be stable and strong, and we are ready for an open, straightforward and honest discussion\". He also said that \"those who incited recent riots had committed a crime and should be punished\". The Incumbent President Kocharian said that \"Armenian authorities were seeking to normalise the situation as soon as possible and restore stability\".\n\nGovernment officials have portrayed the events of 1 March purely as an attempted coup by the opposition. At least 97 Ter-Petrosyan supporters have been jailed by authorities since the election, and have been charged with organizing \"mass riots\" and attempting to overthrow the government. The government-controlled National Assembly stripped four deputies allied to Ter-Petrosyan of their legal immunity from prosecution.\n\nOn 3 March, the Human Rights Defender of the Republic of Armenia, Armen Harutyunyan, issued a report critical of President Kocharyan's order of force.\n\nThe President and the Prime Minister expressed their wish to have the State of Emergency ended on 21 March. They were however concerned over the possibility of new demonstrations, rallies and riots in the streets. In this context, on 17 March, the Parliament initiated a first reading of proposed amendments to the law on holding meetings, rallies, marches, and demonstrations in an extraordinary session.\n\nOn 18 March, President Robert Kocharian signed into law a parliament bill that will make it easier for the Armenian authorities to ban fresh anti-government demonstrations planned by opposition leader Levon Ter-Petrosyan.\n\nThe existing law had until then allowed authorities to ban those demonstrations which they believed were aimed, among other things, at a \"violent overthrow of constitutional order.\" One of the amendments of the new law complements the clause with cases where authorities have \"reliable information\" that street protests would pose a threat to \"state security, public order, public health and morality,\" and that any such information coming from the Armenian police and the National Security Service (NSS) will be automatically deemed \"reliable.\"\n\nAlso, a more significant amendment to the existing law allows the authorities to \"temporarily\" ban rallies for an unspecified period of time after street gatherings resulting in casualties. The ban shall remain in force until the end of the official investigation into a particular case of deadly street violence. Furthermore, the amendments also stipulate that a responsible agency examine a request for holding a public event for 72 hours. Requests are to be submitted 5 days prior to the date of holding a public event.\n\nAccording to the Council of Europe, these amendments entail \"important changes and serious restrictions on the current national regime of freedom of assembly.\" Previously the municipal authorities only needed to be notified of the intent to hold rallies, demonstrations or manifestations. According to the Council of Europe, the amendments full conformity with article 11 paragraph 2 (the right to freedom of assembly and association) of the European Convention can be questioned.\n\nIn addition to Sarkisian's Republican Party (HHK), parliamentary leaders of the Prosperous Armenia, Dashnaktsutyun and Orinats Yerkir parties supported the new bill; Only members of Zharangutyun, the sole opposition party represented in the parliament, and independent lawmaker Victor Dallakian voted against the legislation.\n\nArtur Baghdasarian, leader of the Rule of Law party and former opposition leader who switched sides after the election, and Gagik Tsarukian, leader of the Prosperous Armenia Party made a joint statement with Sarkisian where they blamed the deadly clashes on Ter-Petrosyan, claiming that they had been \"methodically and cruelly\" planned by Ter-Petrosyan beforehand as part of his plan to illegally seize power.\n\nIn a 3 March statement, the Armenian Revolutionary Federation defended the deadly use of force against thousands of Ter-Petrosyan supporters who demonstrated in Yerevan on 1 March and called the protest an attempted coup d'état.\n\nOpposition leaders who organized the rally disavowed and condemned 1 March's looting of dozens of a nearby supermarket and burning of parked cars, blaming them on government \"provocateurs.\" \"We have nothing to do with that,\" said Nikol Pashinian, an opposition leader. \"The authorities themselves are destabilizing the situation.\"\n\nDuring his 11 March news conference, Ter-Petrosyan alleged that government agents provoked the unrest. \"Not even one car had been scratched [during protests and marches] prior to March 1. So what happened?\" Ter-Petrosyan said, according to a report distributed by the Regnum news agency. \"Provocateurs went after the protesters with clubs. … That was the reason the situation spiraled out of control, although it was brilliantly managed by authorities.\"\n\nDuring the weekend of 15–16 March, Ter-Petrosyan and his opposition allies remaining at large held a meeting for the first time since the 1 March government attack, and said they will continue to work for regime change in Armenia by \"legal and democratic means.\" Ter-Petrosyan's office said that the participants of the meeting \"reaffirmed their determination to fight against the kleptocratic system.\" During the week of 10 March, the Ter-Petrosyan's representatives requested permission from Yerevan mayor's office to hold a rally on 21 March (the day after the anticipated end of emergency rule); this request has been rejected.\n\nRaffi Hovannisian's Zharangutyun party said in a statement that \"the schism between the Armenian people and its government continues to expand,\" that the presidential ballot was fraudulent and that Armenians had a legitimate right to dispute its official results in the streets. It said the 1 March bloodshed resulted from the break-up of non-stop protests in Yerevan's Freedom Square staged by the Ter-Petrosyan camp. \"The unconscionability displayed on February 19 and the brutality used to protect it on March 1 remain unresolved issues,\" said the statement. \"No state of emergency, accompanied as it is by an aggressive, one-sided 'public information' vertical which deepens the public divide rather than healing it, will succeed in securing the collective amnesia of state and society.\"\n\nOn 18 March, Levon Ter-Petrosyan rejected as unconstitutional the new amendments to Armenia's law (passed at an emergency session of the National Assembly on 17 March) that will make it easier for authorities to ban new anti-government demonstrations. In a statement, his office said that the enacted amendments \"blatantly violate\" Armenians' constitutionally guaranteed freedom of assembly and can therefore be ignored by citizens. \"In these circumstances, it is the people's legitimate right to ignore the illegal ban and reaffirm their freedom to hold rallies which is guaranteed by the constitution and international law.\" \"In reality, this is an attempt to perpetuate the state of emergency,\" Levon Zurabian, an aide to Ter-Petrosyan, told RFE/RL. \"A regime which attacked peaceful demonstrators and whose illegal actions left many people dead is using its own crime as a pretext to restrict our people's right to hold peaceful rallies... This shows that the authorities are terrified by the existing situation and that they admit having no popular support\"\n\nArmeniaNow has announced that it will remain under a media blackout until the State of Emergency has been suspended, because it feels that the \"latest changes in Yerevan's State of Emergency still leave wide control and leeway for media censorship which has already been exercised in state restrictions of newspapers on the first day of the revised provisions.\"\n\nThe European Union and some Western governments have demanded from the Armenian government a lifting of the 20-day state of emergency.\n\nOn 2 March, Holly Cartner, Europe and Central Asia director at Human Rights Watch said in a statement: \"The Armenian government should refrain from using violence and make clear that it won’t tolerate excessive use of force by police... A political crisis doesn’t give the government carte blanche in how it responds to demonstrators.\" \"The Armenian government prides itself on having a democratic image,\" said Cartner. \"Beating peaceful demonstrators is inconsistent with that image and violates its obligations under human rights law.\" In a second statement, Cartner said, \"The Armenian government should swiftly investigate whether the police and army used lethal force against protesters in accordance with international standards. While the government has a duty to maintain civic order, lethal force may only be used when strictly necessary to protect life.\"\n\nOn 3 March, the Committee to Protect Journalists said that Armenian authorities \"should immediately lift restrictions on independent news reporting and the censorship of independent news Web sites.\" \"We're alarmed by this blatant attempt to censor news of the disputed election,\" CPJ Executive Director Joel Simon said. \"We call on Armenian authorities to withdraw the ban on independent news gathering and dissemination, and restore access to independent and opposition media.\"\n\nOn 5 March, the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), which oversees all non-military U.S. international broadcasting, said it \"strongly objects to the blackout of independent media in Armenia.\" \"Censorship and harassment of the media are the antithesis of democracy,\" said James K. Glassman, Chairman of the BBG.\n\nOn 7 March, Kurt Volker, the US acting assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian Affairs, said in an interview with Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty: \"We don't believe that [a] further crackdown, further arrests, are the right way to go.\" He went on to urge the immediate lifting of the state of emergency imposed by Kocharian on 1 March.\n\nBefore his 13 March trip to Armenia, Thomas Hammarberg, the Council of Europe's visiting commissioner for human rights, said \"I am concerned about the human rights situation in Armenia and the consequences of the declaration of the state of emergency... It is urgent to restore a situation where the activities of the media, political parties and non-governmental organisations are not hindered.\"\n\nOn 12 March, the European Union reiterated its calls for the Armenian authorities to lift the state of emergency in Yerevan, release all political prisoners and agree to an \"independent investigation\" into the country's deadly post-election unrest. The government of Slovenia, holder of the EU's rotating presidency, also said on behalf of the block, \"The Presidency calls again upon the Armenian authorities to release citizens detained in connection with their political activities and to refrain from further arrests of opposition leaders.\"\n\nOn 14 March, Thomas Hammarberg, the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, called for an independent investigation into Armenia's deadly post-election unrest and said opposition supporters arrested by the authorities in recent weeks have been ill-treated in custody. \"There have been cases where there were problems... Some of those arrested have been beaten, which of course is not acceptable\" he said after his meetings in Armenian prisons of the political prisoners. Hammarberg \"appeared to have serious misgivings about the official version of events.\" \"I really think that there is a need for a professional, independent and impartial inquiry into what happened,\" he said, adding that it should be conducted by special commission made up of individuals \"trusted by the public.\" Hammarberg also told Kocharian and Sarkisian that the recent day's easing of civil liberty restrictions stemming from the state of emergency in Yerevan is \"not sufficient\" and specifically urged them to abolish \"censorship\" of the Armenian media.\n\nOn 18 March, after a 3-day visit to Armenia, Thomas Hammarberg called on the Armenian government to lift emergency measures, ensure media freedom and initiate an impartial investigation into recent violent acts. \"The State of Emergency should be lifted in Armenia and an independent, impartial and transparent inquiry initiated to clarify what actually happened during the confrontations in Yerevan between the police and opposition demonstrators on 1 March,\" he said.\n\nOn 20 March, the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights released a report summarizing his findings during his 12–15 March trip to Armenia. The report is critical of the government's abuse of force, stating, \"It seems clear that excessive use of force was used by police and the security forces.\" According to the report the two sides—government authorities and opposition protesters—describe the events of 1 March \"very differently.\" Since it is important in a human rights perspective to establish the basic facts, the report calls for a \"comprehensive inquiry\" that is \"independent, impartial and transparent and perceived as credible by the whole population.\" Also, it criticized the behavior of riot police, stating, \"A review seems necessary of the current riot control measures used by the police as serious mistakes were made.\"\n\nThe Armenian police arrested 30 protestors accusing them of starting the riot.\n\nThe Armenian Medical Centre (the former Republican hospital) treated civilians which had concussions from the beating by the police in connection with arrest. A number of them claimed to have been persons only passing by the demonstration. One patient had been hit by a bullet which had perforated his jaw and he could not speak. Another civilian could not be visited as he was in severe condition and held in reanimation.\n\nSeveral civilians who had sought medical assistance following the riots of 1 March had been denied assistance or turned down by the some hospitals. Also, it happened that patients released from the hospitals had been immediately arrested.\n\nAt least 106 members of the opposition have been arrested, and Levon Ter-Petrosyan has been under \"de facto\" house arrest since 1 March.\n\nAccording to article 130 of the Criminal Procedures Code, a person can be held for twenty-four hours without charges. Over 400 persons have been apprehended and asked to give testimony of the events on 1 March.\n\nOn 13 March the Prosecutor General informed that over 95 persons had been arrested for having organized or participated in demonstrations and mass disturbances of public order. Information provided by non-governmental sources on 15 March stated that an additional 50 persons had been arrested, mostly outside of Yerevan in major cities of Armenia like Gyumri.\n\nAccording to the Council of Europe Commissioner of Human Rights, Thomas Hammarberg who visited a number of detainees in Nubarashen Prison, the Temporary holding facility of the National Security Service and the Holding Centre of Yerevan City Police Department, \"the number of injured persons and detainees still after fourteen days showing marks of beating is clearly a matter of grave concern.\" The Commissioner has stated that allegations of police brutality should be investigated.\n\nSkirmishes between the Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army and the Military of Azerbaijan were reported along the contact line near the Mardakert. These skirmishes were the worst fighting along the contact line since the ceasefire after the Nagorno-Karabakh War in 1994 and have caused several fatalities. The Armenian side blames Azerbaijan for trying to take advantage of unrest in Armenia. The Azeri side blames Armenia claiming that they are trying to divert attention from problems at home but Azerbaijan's President Ilham Aliyev has also said his country is ready to re-take the region by force, and has been buying the military hardware and ammunition to do so.\n\nOn 9 March 2008, the Constitutional Court officially rejected the opposition's claim that the election was rigged.\n\n\n\n\nOpera Square\nOpera Square\nOpera Square\nThis is the last night before the peaceful \"camp-in\" protest was violently stopped by riot police and special forces early the next morning. This day saw the number of tents rise to 132.\n\nThis is the first day after the removal of the official state of emergency. However, a new amendment to Armenia's law passed by parliament allows the authorities to more easily ban new rallies.\n\nBeing Easter Sunday, there was no organized demonstration on this day. Busloads of special forces, riot police, and military continued their illegal occupation of Freedom Square, preventing Armenian citizens of expressing their constitutional right to free assembly. As a member of the Council of Europe, the Armenian authorities are violating Article 11 (freedom of assembly and association) of the European Convention on Human Rights, to which Armenia is a signatory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19267671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19267671", "title": "2008 Ukrainian political crisis", "text": "2008 Ukrainian political crisis\n\nThe 2008 Ukrainian political crisis started after President Viktor Yushchenko's Our Ukraine–People's Self-Defense Bloc (NU-NS) withdrew from the governing coalition following a vote on a bill (4 September 2008) to limit the President's powers in which the Prime Minister's Bloc Yulia Tymoshenko (BYuT) voted with the opposition Party of Regions. The bill would have required the consent of the Prime Minister for the appointment and dismissal of the Prosecutor General by the President, given the government power to appoint local heads of government if the President rejects the candidates, stripped from the President the right to reject a candidate for Prime Minister, dismiss the Defense, Interior and Foreign Ministers, and appoint a head of the State Intelligence Service. President Yushchenko stated that a clear position on the events in Georgia was one of the conditions under which return to talks in the Parliament was possible, as well as the repeal of all the constitutional laws adopted after 3 September. Yushchenko claimed that a \"de-facto coalition\" was formed with 'no other aims but to conduct coup d'état and usurp power in the country'. Tymoshenko stated that the real intentions behind the President's party in 'declaring war on her' was to ensure his victory in the next presidential election, although she still called for a reformation of the coalition between the two parties. She also reiterated her position on the Georgian conflict, claiming to be neutral and more in line with the EU.\n\nYuri Lutsenko leader of Civil Movement \"People's Self-Defense\" (part of the Our Ukraine–People's Self-Defense Bloc) said that the breakup of the coalition was provoked by the Secretariat of the President and that \"People’s Self Defense\" was categorically against it.\n\nForeign media reported that the political crisis was sparked by the armed conflict between Russia and Georgia that started in early August 2008 and began with a dispute between President Viktor Yushchenko and Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko over Ukraine's reaction to that conflict. The President gave his support for Georgia and strong criticism of Russia whereas other parties professed more balanced positions towards the two parties of that conflict. On 16 September, the collapse of the BYuT/NU-NS coalition was officially announced. Following the failure to re-create the coalition, the Ukrainian parliament was dissolved by president Yushchenko on 8 October 2008, giving way to the third parliamentary election in three years.\n\nPoland’s former President Aleksander Kwaśniewski stated dismissing Verkhovna Rada, Yushchenko \"shot himself in the foot. There was a chance to create a wide democratic coalition of BYUT, NUNS and the Lytvyn bloc, and we were working on it. Pres Yushchenko 'may suffer a substantial pratfall'.”\n\nThe crisis ended when the Orange Coalition was reformed on 9 December 2008, but including Lytvyn's Bloc after Volodymyr Lytvyn was elected as parliamentary speaker the day before.\n\nDuring the conflict between Russia and Georgia, Ukraine's President Viktor Yushchenko issued a decree requiring advance notice of the movements of the Russian Black Sea Fleet into and out of the Ukrainian port of Sevastopol. He also came out strongly in support of Georgia's President Mikheil Saakashvili, condemning Russia's attacks within Georgia. Tymoshenko and her bloc put forward a less critical position towards Russia and the Prime Minister herself was out of public view during much of the conflict. On 18 August 2008 Yushchenko's office accused the Prime Minister of taking a softer position as a way to win the support of Russia during the 2010 Presidential election. Andriy Kyslynskyi, the president's deputy chief of staff, said Tymoshenko's actions showed \"signs of high treason and political corruption\" adding that documents supporting these allegations were being handed over to prosecutors. Tymoshenko denied the accusations and rejected the accusation that she was soft in her support for Georgia, saying that she supported the \"sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia\" but she does not agree with the president’s tough stance on the Black Sea Ports and defends her position as being \"in line with the European Union and not to drag Ukraine into conflicts\".\n\nAndriy Semchenko, an MP from the Tymoshenko bloc, called on the President and the head of the President's Secretariat Viktor Baloha to apologize to the PM before there could be constructive work in the coalition. He said it was not appropriate for the President and Baloha to spread information that Tymoshenko was a traitor.\n\nOn 1 September 2008 Prime Minister Tymoshenko put forward draft legislation which would facilitate the procedure for impeachment, though she insisted it would not affect President Yushchenko and was meant for future presidents. When the legislation came to a vote two days later, Tymoshenko's bloc voted together with the Party of Regions and Communists to pass it. They also approved legislation limiting the powers of the President while increasing the powers of the Prime Minister. In particular the parties approved legislation which would strip the President of the right to reject a candidate for Prime Minister, dismiss the Defense, Interior and Foreign Ministers and appoint a head of the State Intelligence Service. Yushchenko promised to veto the legislation.\n\nFollowing the vote President Yushchenko's bloc pulled out of the governing coalition saying Tymoshenko was colluding with the opposition and the President warned he would call a snap election if a new coalition was not formed within the required time. He further accused Tymoshenko of trying to set up a \"dictatorship of the prime minister\" and calling the parliamentary vote \"a political and constitutional coup d'état.\" Tymoshenko rejected the allegations and said the real reason the president \"declared a war against me is to ensure his victory in the next presidential elections.\" In spite of this Tymoshenko has called for restoring the coalition between the two groups. She also defended her position on Georgia saying it was \"in line with the European Union and it is not to drag Ukraine into conflicts.\" Parliament further increased the powers of the Prime Minister by passing legislation requiring the appointment and dismissal of the Prosecutor General by the President to receive the consent of the Prime Minister and giving the government power to appoint local heads of government if the President rejects the candidates.\n\nOn 8 September, Our Ukraine MP Andry Parubij claimed Tymoshenko and Regions had already reached a deal on forming a new government and were dividing up posts for a new cabinet (a claim Tynoshenko has denied). He also said that if a coalition is formed between Tymoshenko's bloc and Regions, Our Ukraine would appeal to the Constitutional Court to assess the legality of the December 2004 changes made in the constitution which, if successful, would restore wide powers held by the office of president. During the \"Freedom of Speech\" program on 9 September 2008 Tymoshenko said she was \"categorically against\" the decrees made by Yushchenko on the Russian Black Sea Fleet saying they risked provoking a response from Russia.\n\nOn 10 September, Tymoshenko reiterated her call for the coalition to be restored, but said she would not accept any preconditions for Our Ukraine to return. She also said at the moment they were not discussing any other coalition. Tymoshenko added that a snap poll would \"destroy the normal life of the country\" so it was not a way out of the crisis.\n\nThe same day Yan Bernazyuk, Yushchenko's liaison to the government of Tymoshenko, said representatives of the Presidential Secretariat were not allowed to attend the government session. Bernazyuk claimed the reason was because the government was discussing four issues which had a \"clear Kremlin face\" concerning \"permits on use of mineral products without any contests, sales, and tenders.\" Yushchenko urged representatives and members of the regional, city and district councils to unite against the formation of a new coalition by retaining the \"democratic coalition\" in the local governments as well as for all other \"national forces\" to unite. He said the new relationship between the Tymoshenko bloc and Regions was a \"serious threat for democratic choice of Ukraine\" which was in danger of reconsidering \"national priorities to principles of democratic governing, including the local one.\"\n\nOfficials from the Party of Regions accused Yushchenko of planning to impose direct presidential rule by dissolving the parliament without calling early elections. At the same time members of the Central Election Commission sympathetic to Yushchenko would resign prolonging the time without an acting parliament. Another claim said Yushchenko had secretly instructed the oblast governors and leaders of NGOs to request the imposition of a direct presidential rule by Yushchenko and that he would launch a military coup. Yushchenko denied planning to resolve the crisis with force saying Ukraine can resolve the crisis in a \"democratic way\" through dialogue.\n\nOn 16 September, the collapse of the BYuT/NU-NS coalition was officially announced. Yulia Tymoshenko unleashed one of her harshest attacks on Yushchenko yet, accusing the President of destroying the gains of the Orange Revolution, sinking hopes of rebuilding the coalition. \"Since 2004, this president has managed to destroy everything: people's faith in the ideals of the revolution and faith in the president himself – only 5 percent still support him,\" she told reporters after a cabinet meeting. \"Unfortunately, this president will leave a legacy of shattered remnants of the 'orange' promises and democratic coalitions, of his own team and even of his friends and his own political standing.\" Tymoshenko also blamed Yushchenko for \"everything bad that will happen in relations between Ukraine and Russia\" calling for Ukraine to pursue a more \"balanced\" policy towards Russia. Yushchenko accused Tymoshenko and the Party of Regions of trying to create a twoparty system in parliament. The two blocs joined forces in drafting and registering a new law in parliament on 17 September that would introduce a two-round election system for parliament which would likely lead to BYuT and Regions being the only parties in parliament after the next election. Viktor Yanukovich said his party did not want to initiate early elections and added \"The Constitution must be changed so as to provide efficient operation of authorities.\"\n\nOn 18 September, Yulia Tymoshenko refused to resign as prime minister as agreed under a coalition pact saying \"The coalition has not collapsed... It's the president and part of his team betraying the democratic coalition who have left it unilaterally.\" She also made reference to the alleged poisoning plot that almost killed President Viktor Yushchenko in 2004 by saying \"The main poisoning is the poisoning with unlimited power, a serious intoxication in the presidential secretariat.\" Yushchenko accused Tymoshenko of not providing adequate funding for Ukraine's military and asked when she would show respect to Ukraine's soldiers.\n\nPresident Yushchenko later said Tymoshenko was working with the Party of Regions, and the Communist Party on decisions aimed at destabilizing the country in order to establish a new political regime. Yuriy Yekhanurov, Ukraine's Defense Minister and member of Yushchenko's Our Ukraine bloc, said he and his political force would take all effort necessary to maintain the stability of the country.\nOn 19 September Yulia Tymoshenko called the information about the existence of an informal coalition between BYuT, the Party of Regions and Communist Part of Ukraine “black political propaganda.” The Premier believed that the spreading of such information was aimed at changing the arrangement of political forces leading up to the Ukrainian presidential elections in 2010. She also stated: “I think that this (the creation of a coalition of a different format) can be a last resort and forced step before the dissolving of the Verkhovna Rada, the Communists have nothing to do with this.” On 22 September Our Ukraine issued a statement which said: \"People’s Union Our Ukraine call on everybody, for who the values of independence and freedom are more important than personal or group interests, to unite around President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenko, as a guarantor of the national state, and around Our Ukraine, as the only real force defending Ukrainian interests in the current Verkhovna Rada\" and called on BYuT members to \"put interests of nation before the interests of party leaders, to refuse being accomplices of the plot (to revise the Ukrainian Constitution and give all power to the hands of the pro-Kremlin parliamentary oligarchs), and to take part in the unification process of Ukrainian democratic forces\".\n\nOn 26 September 2008, Tymoshenko suggested holding early parliamentary and presidential elections as a way out of the crisis. Tymoshenko said in parliament she would accept any conditions of Our Ukraine \"in order to preserve Ukraine's strategic orientation, to preserve the parliament and not to throw the country into a new crisis.\" Talks were on track to reforge the orange coalition by early October 2008. But no coalition was formed on 8 October and in the evening of 8 October while visiting Italy President Yushchenko announced Ukraine's third general election in less than three years in a pre-recorded speech on Ukrainian television.\n\nMost politicians, besides the president's closest allies, denounced the decree, with even some Yushchenko sympathisers and allies from the Presidents own party, vowing to challenge his action in the courts.\nOn 10 October the People’s Self-Defense (PSD) leader Yuriy Lutsenko announced that all democratic forces should unite into a single democratic bloc on basis of BYuT at the snap poll. Although other PSD members disagreed and rather continued to collaborate with Our Ukraine.\n\nInternational reactions were also negative: the European Union did hope beforehand that there will be no snap elections and Poland’s former President Aleksander Kwaśniewski, stated that by dissolving the Verkhovna Rada, Yushchenko \"shot himself in the foot.\"\n\nOn 16 October, after resistance, the cabinet endorsed amendments to the 2008 national budget to finance the snap elections.\n\nProposal by (19 October) by Yulia Tymoshenko to create a \"megacoalition\" and by Viktor Yanukovych (23 October) to create a \"anti-crisis government\" in the Ukrainian Parliament and postpone the snap elections until the threat of the global financial crisis had passed lead to nothing.\n\nOn 29 October the Ukrainian parliament (Verkhovna Rada) voted against a bill to finance the early elections. On 31 October, the Verkhovna Rada refused to include a provision on funding snap parliamentary elections into a bill on immediate anti-financial crisis measures.\n\nThe Kiev District Administrative Court on 11 October 2008 suspended Yushchenko's election call, responding to a lawsuit filed by BYuT MPs. Tymoshenko refused to approve funds for the election, stating that Ukraine couldn't afford an early election and that she expected parliament to refuse the necessary funds, as well. Yushchenko appealed the suspension on the basis that he had fired the judge who gave the order beforehand. Prime Minister Tymoshenko and President Yushchenko dispatched rival security forces to the appeals and Tymoshenko's supporters planned to hold a round-the-clock vigil at the court to prevent illegal action from taking place. The Kiev Prosecutor's Office also launched an investigation of the judge who suspending the decree on the charge of \"knowingly passing an unlawful ruling\". On 13 October President Yuschenko liquidated the Kiev District Administrative Court altogether. On 15 October, Kiev Regional Administrative Court suspended the president decree on liquidation of the Kiev District Administrative after the Supreme Court had asked Yuschenko to cancel the decree on liquidation of the Kiev District Administrative Court. So on 15 October Yuschenko liquidated the Kiev District Administrative Court again. On 17 October The Kiev Central Administrative Court has overturned the ruling of the Kiev District Administrative Court. On 28 October The Kiev Appeal Administrative Court cancelled the suspension of Yushchenko's election decision by the Kiev District Administrative Court.\n\nOn 22 October, President Yushchenko stated that the precise date for the early election could not be set until parliament (work in parliament was blocked by protests from 21 October till 24 October) approved finances for the poll and voted for legislation to help Ukraine through the world financial crisis. So far parliament hasn't approved funding. On 12 November 2008 Yushchenko stated in an interview published in the Warsaw daily Rzeczpospolita that the election could no longer take place this year because anti-crisis actions had to be undertaken first.\n\nEarly December 2008 there were negotiations between BYuT and Party of Regions to form a coalition but after Volodymyr Lytvyn was elected Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada (parliament of Ukraine) 9 December 2008 he announced the creation of a coalition between his Lytvyn Bloc, BYuT and OU-PSD. After negotiations the three parties officially signed the coalition agreement on 16 December. It is unsure if this coalition will stop the snap election although Speaker Volodymyr Lytvyn predicts the Verkhovna Rada will work until 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "57312580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57312580", "title": "Amalgamation (land)", "text": "Amalgamation (land)\n\nAmalgamation in English and Welsh land law is a simple process carried out in registered land. It combines neighbouring parcels (holdings) of land which are freehold. \n\nIn leasehold land interests (which can be at any storey) respective surrenders and a new combined lease followed by its registration instead is the process used: combination of leases — this can also be called the surrender and regrant involving more than one surrender.\n\nA small fee is payable to HM Land Registry rule 3 of the Land Registration Rules 2003 for amalgamation or subdivision.\n\nA single title with a larger plot shown in its associated title plan results. It avoids:\nIt enables:\nIt results in a slightly lengthier title register than a single one of the contributor titles where, just as on first registration of land which once had different ownership and has been affected by differing neighbours or developers imposing covenants on it, the titles vary in their easements and covenants.\n\n"}
{"id": "29731213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29731213", "title": "Busan American Cultural Service building arson", "text": "Busan American Cultural Service building arson\n\nThe 1982 Busan arson attack or Busan American Council Fire Accidents (Hangeul: 부산 미국문화원 방화사건, Hanja: 釜山美文化院放火事件) was an Anti-American attack against the United States Information Service building in Busan on 18 March 1982. The attack resulted in the death of a Dong-a University student who was studying in the building; 3 others were injured.\n\nIn June 1982, 16 people were put on trial in Busan for involvement in the attack. Theology student Moon Pu Shik (23) admitted the arson charge, saying the fire was a protest against US support for the Chun Doo-hwan dictatorship, particularly the suppression of the Gwangju Uprising. The other defendants included journalist Kim Hyong Jang (32) and Reverend Choi Ki Shik (39) head of the Catholic education center in Wonju, who was accused of sheltering the attackers. In August 1982 Kim Hyong Jang and Moon Pu Shik were sentenced to death for the arson, while Moon's wife Kim Un Suk (24) and Lee Mi Ok (21), were sentenced to life imprisonment. Following pleas for mercy from the US and protests by Catholic and Protestant groups, Kim and Moon's death sentences were commuted to life imprisonment in March 1983. Their sentences were reduced to 20 years in 1988. Moon Pu Shik was released from prison in 1988 after having served 6 years and 9 months in prison.\n\nThe former USIS building now houses the Busan Modern History Museum. \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "29952351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29952351", "title": "Canadian Housing and Renewal Association", "text": "Canadian Housing and Renewal Association\n\nThe Canadian Housing and Renewal Association (CHRA) is a national non-profit association in Canada representing those working in (or concerned with the state of) affordable housing and homelessness in Canada. \n\nCHRA's main objectives include: \n\nCHRA aims to achieve these goals through its activities, including: \n\nDuring the mid-1960s, a group of concerned urban renewal professionals in Toronto became members of the Upper New York State Chapter of the National Association of Housing Renewal Officials (NAHRO). From this nucleus, the Canadian Association of Housing & Renewal Officials (CAHRO) was formed in 1967. \nThe original members of CAHRO were concerned with urban renewal; however, this changed with the development of a national membership and the introduction of the Neighbourhood Improvement Program (NIP). As stated in the CAHRO constitution at the time, the objectives of the association were: \n\nDuring the early 1970s, the membership was limited to several hundred. The annual conference was the only regular meeting, and correspondence consisted of a mailing before the annual meeting. This changed in 1977, when a newsletter (\"Communiqué\") was sent to members at irregular intervals in response to new federal policy in housing. This newsletter (and other activities) were limited by resources derived from membership dues and a small profit from the annual conference. \n\nIn early 1977, the president of CAHRO approached the then-Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) requesting funding to establish a small national office with an executive director. CAHRO felt that unless the association had its own office, it could not become an effective municipal voice in housing. \nInitial meetings between the two agencies centred on this proposal; however, experience with similar operations led CMHC to suggest funding for a product-oriented agreement. In late summer 1977, CAHRO submitted a proposal to CMHC for funding of a national housing magazine. The proposal was formally agreed on in summer 1978.\n\nIn the agreement, CMHC agreed to fund CAHRO for two purposes: \n\nFurther specifications concerning the periodical were made. It was to be bilingual, national and published six times per year. In 1978, there were to be two issues. Furthermore, \n\nStaffing interviews for the magazine were held in August 1978; by early September, three people were set up in the CAHRO national office in Fredericton, New Brunswick working on the first issue of \"Impact\".\nDuring its six-year history, \"Impact\" communicated CAHRO's responses to government housing policies and positions, voiced housing-related issues and policies emerging at the municipal level, and published articles and opinions from across the country. \nIn 1984, CAHRO moved to a national office in Ottawa and hired Heather Lang-Runtz as executive director and editor. With this move came the decision to create a national housing magazine that would not only disseminate information to members, but would also help increase the organization's capacity to attract new members and become a stronger advocate for improved housing in Canada. \n\nIn the fall of 1984, the first issue of \"Canadian Housing\" was published.\nIn late 1988, stemming from a decision to broaden the scope of the organization from that of a program-specific lobby group toward a more broadly-based national housing organization focusing on housing affordability for Canadians, the name of the organization was changed to the Canadian Housing and Renewal Association (CHRA).\n\nFrom the beginning of the CHRA/CMHC funding agreement in 1978 through the early 2000s, CHRA sustained itself primarily by way of this funding. In 2009, in the midst of federal spending cuts it became clear that CMHCs funding for CHRA would be cut. The annual funding provided by CMHC to CHRA ended in December 2010. \nAs of 2011, CHRA aims to replace its CMHC funding through budget-cutting, increased membership and revenue generation through its services.\n\n"}
{"id": "39902933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39902933", "title": "Case of the Anti-Soviet \"Bloc of Rightists and Trotskyites\"", "text": "Case of the Anti-Soviet \"Bloc of Rightists and Trotskyites\"\n\nThe Case of the Anti-Soviet \"Bloc of Rightists and Trotskyites\" (or \"Bloc of Rights and Trotskyites\") (), also known as the Trial of the Twenty-One, was the last of the three public Moscow Trials, show trials charging prominent Bolsheviks with espionage and treason. The Trial of the Twenty-One took place in Moscow in March 1938, towards the end of the Soviet Great Purge.\n\nThe third show trial, in March 1938, known as \"The Trial of the Twenty-One\", is the most famous of the Soviet Union show trials because of the people involved and the scope of the charges, which tied together all of the loose threads from earlier show trials. It included 21 defendants alleged to belong to the so-called \"Bloc of Rightists and Trotskyites\":\n\nThey were all proclaimed members of the \"right Trotskyist bloc\" that intended to overthrow socialism and restore capitalism in Russia, among other things.\n\nMeant to be the culmination of previous trials, it now alleged that Bukharin and others committed the following crimes:\n\nAll of the defendants confessed to these charges during the show trial with a few notable, but limited, exceptions. The charges have been characterized as \"fantastic\". The defendants supposedly organized explosions in mines, hoping to kill as many miners as possible, as well as railway accidents. The most nightmarish confessions were made by Zelensky: working in the trade sector he supposedly wanted to organize famine and \"confessed\" that in order to harm Soviet people his organization put glass and nails in the butter to cut the consumers' throat and stomach. It is assumed that Stalin included a number of economic executives in this trial because he wanted to lay the blame for the catastrophic living conditions of the population on the supposed \"wreckers\" in the economic sphere.\n\nThe preparation for this trial was delayed in its early stages due to the reluctance of some party members to denounce their comrades. Stalin personally intervened to speed up the process and replaced Yagoda with Nikolai Yezhov. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn claimed that Stalin also observed some of the trial in person from a hidden chamber in the courtroom.\n\nOnly one defendant, Nikolai Krestinsky, initially refused to admit his guilt. He changed his position within a day, however, telling Public Prosecutor Andrei Vyshinsky: \"I fully and completely admit that I am guilty of all the gravest charges brought against me personally, and that I admit my complete responsibility for the treason and treachery I have committed.\"\n\nBukharin's confession was limited in a different fashion. Observers have speculated that Bukharin had reached some sort of agreement with the prosecution: while he admitted guilt to general charges, he undercut that by denying any knowledge when it came to specific crimes. Bukharin typically would admit only what was in his written confessions and refused to go any further; at one point in the trial, when Vyshinsky asked him about a conspiracy to weaken Soviet military power, Bukharin responded \"it was not discussed, at least in my presence,\" at which point Vyshinsky dropped the question and moved to another topic.\n\nThere is other evidence that Bukharin had reached an agreement to trade his confession for personal concessions of some sort. Anastas Mikoyan and Vyacheslav Molotov claim that Bukharin was never tortured. Bukharin had been allowed to write four book-length manuscripts, including an autobiographical novel, \"How It All Began\", a philosophical treatise, and a collection of poems – all of which were found in Stalin's archive and published in the 1990s – while in prison. Bukharin also wrote a series of very emotional letters to Stalin protesting his innocence and professing his love for Stalin, which contrasts with his critical opinion of Stalin and his policies expressed to others and his conduct in the trial.\n\nYet Bukharin appears to have strayed from that agreement at trial. While he had accepted responsibility \"even for those crimes about which I did not know or about which I did not have the slightest idea\" on the theory that he was the head of the \"Bloc of Rightists and Trotskyites\", he testified that the Bloc did not exist and its members had never met.\n\nThe result was a curious mix of fulsome confessions and subtle criticisms of the trial. After disproving several charges against him (one observer noted that he proceeded to demolish or rather showed he could very easily demolish the whole case) and saying that \"the confession of accused is not essential. The confession of the accused is a medieval principle of jurisprudence\" in the trial that was solely based on confessions, he finished his last plea with \"the monstrousness of my crime is immeasurable especially in the new stage of struggle of the U.S.S.R. May this trial be the last severe lesson, and may the great might of the U.S.S.R. become clear to all.\"\n\nOther defendants apparently still hoped for clemency. Yagoda, who had overseen the interrogations that led to the previous show trials, made a plea for mercy directly to Stalin, who may, according to Solzhenitsyn, have been observing the proceedings:\nJust as though Stalin had been sitting right there in the hall, Yagoda confidently and insistently begged him directly for mercy: \"I appeal to you! \"For you\" I built two great canals!\" And a witness reports that at just that moment a match flared in the shadows behind a window on the second floor of the hall, apparently behind a muslin curtain, and, while it lasted, the outline of a pipe could be seen.\n\nIn his final word, Vyshinsky said:\n\nAll our country, from small one to old one, awaits and demands one thing: traitors and spies who sold to the enemy our homeland to be shot like mad dogs. Our people demands one thing: crush the accursed vermin!\n\nAll but three were found guilty \"of having committed extremely grave state offenses covered by...the Criminal Code...sentenced to the supreme penalty—to be shot.\" Pletnyov was sentenced to 25 years in prison, Rakovsky to 20 years, and Bessonov to 15 years. By one account, Bukharin – who had asked to be poisoned, rather than shot – was forced to watch the execution of sixteen other defendants before being shot himself.\n\nEven sympathetic observers who had stomached the earlier trials found it hard to swallow new charges as they became ever more absurd and the purge by now expanded to include virtually every living Old Bolshevik leader except Stalin. For some prominent former communists, such as Bertram Wolfe, Jay Lovestone, Arthur Koestler, and Heinrich Brandler, the Bukharin trial marked their final break with communism and turned the first three into ardent anti-communists.\n\nBukharin's testimony became the subject of much debate among Western observers, inspiring Koestler's acclaimed novel Darkness at Noon and a philosophical essay by Maurice Merleau-Ponty in \"Humanism and Terror\", among others. Koestler and others viewed Bukharin's testimony as a true believer's last service to the Party (while preserving a small amount of personal honor) whereas Bukharin biographer Stephen Cohen and Robert Tucker saw traces of Aesopian language, with which Bukharin sought to turn the table into trial of Stalinism, while keeping his part of bargain to save his family. Bukharin himself speaks of his \"peculiar duality of mind\" in his last plea, which led to \"semi-paralysis of the will\" and Hegelian \"unhappy consciousness\", which presumably stemmed from the conflict between his knowledge of the reality of Stalinist rule and the threat of fascism, which led Bukharin and others to follow Stalin, who had become the personification of the Party.\n\nOthers were not so critical of the trial. Ambassador Joseph Davies, author of Mission to Moscow, wrote that \"It is generally accepted by members of the Diplomatic Corps that the accused must have been guilty of an offense which in the Soviet Union would merit the death penalty\". Beatrice Webb, the British Fabian, stated that she was happy that Stalin had \"cut out the dead wood\". Bertolt Brecht, whose lover Carola Neher had disappeared after her return to the Soviet Union, reportedly said \"The more innocent they are, the more they deserve to die\".\n\nArthur Koestler's novel \"Darkness at Noon\" (1944) gives a haunting, if at least partly fictitious, portrayal of the atmosphere surrounding this trial. It tells of an old Bolshevik's last weeks trying to come to terms with the unintended results of the revolution he helped create. As a former member of the Communist party, Koestler rises above the dichotomy of much of the Cold War, showing a deep understanding for the origins of the Soviet Revolution, while at the same time severely criticizing its results.\n\nFitzroy Maclean's autobiography \"Eastern Approaches\" has a chapter devoted to this trial, which he witnessed while working in Moscow for the British Foreign Office. He goes into great detail describing a number of the exchanges between the accused and the prosecutor. He also gives the history behind several of the people on trial, their service to the party and their positions before being tried.\n\nHalldór Laxness, the Icelandic author, was present at the trial and described it in detail in his travelogue from USSR in 1937–38, \"Gerska æfintýrið\" (\"The Russian Adventure\"), published in Iceland in 1938 and in a Danish translation in 1939. He seems to have believed in the guilt of the accused, but adds that it did not matter anyway: sacrifices have to be made to the cause of the revolution. In his 1963 memoirs, \"Skáldatími\" (\"A Poet's Time\"), Laxness returned to the trial, giving a totally different description of it, now much more sympathetic to Bukharin and his fellow defendants.\n\n"}
{"id": "25430984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25430984", "title": "Climate debt", "text": "Climate debt\n\nClimate debt is a theoretical concept which has been submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change by over fifty countries including Bolivia, Bhutan, Malaysia, Micronesia, Sri Lanka, Paraguay, Venezuela and the Group of Least Developed countries, representing 49 of the world's poorest and most vulnerable countries.\n\nThe climate-debt concept incorporates two distinct elements:\n\n\nThe extent of adaptation debt is difficult to calculate; but has three main components:\n\n\nThe climate-debt theory posits that wealthy countries and companies are accountable for the impacts of their historical and continued over-consumption of the Earth’s limited resources.\n\nThe over-emitting or disproportionate emitting of greenhouse gases is characterized as 'emissions debt' (or 'credit for under-emitting); one which should hypothetically be paid for (by monetary or non-monetary means) by those countries that have over-emitted their fair-share of emissions. To determine this debt, an emissions or carbon budget is calculated, and distributed among countries. \n\nThe climate-debt theory argues that to stop climate change humans must accept that there is an 'emissions budget' which represents the total amount of carbon dioxide emissions the Earth's atmosphere can absorb without climate change occurring. Given this, the climate negotiations are, in substantial part, about how to share this budget. The negotiations are about how to share the Earth’s atmospheric space between rich and poor countries, and how to share the financing and effort of mitigation of emissions between countries. \n\nThe climate-debt theory argues that the negotiations are about the allocation of an emissions budget. There are many budget estimations, and distributing these budgets 'fairly' is an ethical challenge on the international stage. More information can be found on the emissions budget page. \n\nThe idea of \"Climate-debt\" as a paradigm for responding to the climate crisis is supported by many NGOs, civil society movements and people's movements including those who are members of Climate Justice Now!\n\nIt is one of the topics at the World People's Conference on Climate Change and the Rights of Mother Earth to be held in Cochabamba, Bolivia from 20–22 April 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "16520356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16520356", "title": "Combahee River Collective", "text": "Combahee River Collective\n\nThe Combahee River Collective was a Black feminist lesbian organization active in Boston from 1974 to 1980. The Collective was instrumental in highlighting that the white feminist movement was not addressing their particular needs. They are perhaps best known for developing the Combahee River Collective Statement, a key document in the history of contemporary Black feminism and the development of the concepts of identity as used among political organizers and social theorists.\n\nAuthor Barbara Smith and other delegates attending the first (1973) regional meeting of the National Black Feminist Organization in New York City provided the groundwork for the Combahee River Collective with their efforts to build an NBFO Chapter in Boston.\n\nIn her 2001 essay \"From the Kennedy Commission to the Combahee Collective\", historian and African American Studies professor Duchess Harris states that, in 1974 the Boston collective \"observed that their vision for social change was more radical than the NBFO\", and as a result, the group chose to strike out on their own as the Combahee River Collective. Members of the CRC, notably Barbara Smith and Demita Frazier, felt it was critical that the organization address the needs of Black lesbians, in addition to organizing on behalf of Black feminists.\n\nThe Collective's name was suggested by Smith, who owned a book called: \"Harriet Tubman, Conductor on the Underground Railroad\" by Earl Conrad. She \"wanted to name the collective after a historical event that was meaningful to African American women.\" Smith noted: \"It was a way of talking about ourselves being on a continuum of Black struggle, of Black women's struggle.\" The name commemorated an action at the Combahee River planned and led by Harriet Tubman on June 2, 1863, in the Port Royal region of South Carolina. The action freed more than 750 slaves and is the only military campaign in American history planned and led by a woman.\n\nThe Combahee River Collective Statement was developed by a \"collective of Black feminists...involved in the process of defining and clarifying our politics, while...doing political work within our own group and in coalition with other progressive organizations and movements...\"\n\nMembers of the collective describe having a feeling of creating something which had not existed previously. Demita Frazier described the CRC's beginnings as \"not a mix cake\", meaning that the women involved had to create the meaning and purpose of the group \"from scratch.\" In her 1995 essay \"Doing it from Scratch: The Challenge of Black Lesbian Organizing\", which borrows its title from Frazier's statement, Barbara Smith describes the early activities of the collective as \"consciousness raising and political work on a multitude of issues\", along with the building of \"friendship networks, community and a rich Black women's culture where none had existed before.\"\n\nThroughout the mid-1970s members of the Combahee River Collective met weekly at the Cambridge, Massachusetts Women's Center.\n\nThe Collective held retreats throughout the Northeast between 1977 and 1979 to discuss issues of concern to Black feminists. Author Alexis De Veaux, biographer of poet Audre Lorde, describes a goal of the retreats as to \"institutionalize Black feminism\" and develop \"an ideological separation from white feminism\", as well as to discuss \"the limitations of white feminists' fixation 'on the primacy of gender as an oppression.'\"\n\nThe first \"Black feminist retreat\" was held July 1977 in South Hadley, Massachusetts. Its purpose was to assess the state of the movement, to share information about the participants' political work, and to talk about possibilities and issues for organizing Black women.\" \"Twenty Black feminists ...were invited (and) were asked to bring copies of any written materials relevant to Black feminism—articles, pamphlets, papers, their own creative work – to share with the group. Frazier, Smith, and Smith, who organized the retreats, hoped that they would foster political stimulation and spiritual rejuvenation.\"\n\nThe second retreat was held in November 1977 in Franklin Township, New Jersey, and the third and fourth were scheduled for March and July 1978. \"After these retreats occurred, the participants were encouraged to write articles for the Third World women's issue of \"Conditions\", a journal edited by Lorraine Bethel and Barbara Smith.\" The importance of publishing was also emphasized in the fifth retreat, held July 1979, and the collective discussed contributing articles for a lesbian herstory issue of two journals, \"Heresies\" and \"Frontiers\".\n\n\"Participants at the sixth retreat... discussed articles in the May/June 1979 issue of \"The Black Scholar\" collectively titled, \"The Black Sexism Debate\"...They also discussed the importance of writing to \"Essence\" to support an article in the September 1979 issue entitled \"I am a Lesbian\", by Chirlane McCray, who was a Combahee member...The seventh retreat was held in Washington, D.C., in Feb. 1980.\"\n\nThe final Statement was based on this collective discussion, and drafted by African-American activists Barbara Smith, Demita Frazier and Beverly Smith.\n\nThe \"Combahee River Collective Statement\" is referred to as \"among the most compelling documents produced by black feminists\", and Harriet Sigerman, author of \"The Columbia Documentary History of American Women Since 1941\" calls the solutions which the statement proposes to societal problems such as racial and sexual discrimination, homophobia and classist politics \"multifaceted and interconnected.\"\n\nIn their \"Encyclopedia of Government and Politics\", M. E. Hawkesworth and Maurice Kogan refer to the CRCS as \"what is often seen as the definitive statement regarding the importance of identity politics, particularly for people whose identity is marked by multiple interlocking oppressions\".\n\nSmith and the Combahee River Collective have been credited with coining the term identity politics, which they defined as \"a politics that grew out of our objective material experiences as Black women.\" In her essay \"From the Kennedy Commission to the Combahee Collective: Black Feminist Organizing, 1960–1980\", Duchess Harris credits the \"polyvocal political expressions of the Black feminists in the Combahee River Collective (with) defin(ing) the nature of identity politics in the 1980s and 1990s, and challeng(ing) earlier 'essentialist' appeals and doctrines...\"\n\nThe Collective developed a multidimensional analysis recognizing a \"simultaneity of oppressions\"; refusing to rank oppressions based on race, class and gender. According to author and academic Angela Davis, this analysis drew on earlier Black Marxist and Black Nationalist movements, and was anti-racist and anti-capitalist in nature.\n\nIn Roderick Ferguson's book \"Aberrations in Black,\" the \"Combahee River Collective Statement\" is cited as \"rearticulating coalition to address gender, racial, and sexual dominance as part of capitalist expansion globally.\" Ferguson uses the articulation of simultaneity of oppressions to describe coalition building that exists outside of the organizations of the nation-state.\n\nThe Combahee River Collective Statement was separated into four separate chapters: The Genesis of Contemporary Black Feminism; What We Believe; Problems in Organizing Black Feminist; and Black Feminist Issues and Projects.\n\nThe Genesis of Contemporary Black Feminism, as submitted by the Combahee River Collective, is very much rooted in the interlocking oppressions they endure. As Black Women, the Collective argued that they experience oppression based on race, gender, and class. Further, because many of the women were queer, they also acknowledged oppression based on sexuality as well. The Collective states its basis and active goals as \"committed to struggling against racial, sexual, heterosexual and class oppression\" and describe their particular task as the \"development of integrated analysis and practice based upon the fact that the major systems of oppression are interlocking. The synthesis of these oppressions creates the conditions of our lives.\"\n\nThe CRC also emphasized that they held the fundamental and shared belief that \"Black women are inherently valuable, that...(their) liberation is a necessity not as an adjunct to somebody else's but because of (their own) need as human persons for autonomy...\" and expressed a particularly commitment to \"working on those struggles in which race, sex, and class are simultaneous factors in oppression...\"\n\nThe group saw \"Black feminism as the logical political movement to combat the manifold and simultaneous oppressions that all women of color face...\" and believed that \"[T]he most profound and potentially most radical politics come directly out of our own identit(ies).\"\n\nThe statement describes \"Contemporary Black feminism (as) the outgrowth of countless generations of personal sacrifice, militancy, and work by our mothers and sisters\" such as Sojourner Truth, Harriet Tubman, Frances E. W. Harper, Ida B. Wells Barnett, and Mary Church Terrell, (as well as thousands upon thousands of unknown women).\" The work of these women has been obscured \"by outside reactionary forces and racism and elitism within the (feminist) movement.\"\n\nIssues surrounding organizing around Black feminism are very much rooted in the lack of power and privilege black females have. CRC even notes that they don't have the privilege of their white heterosexual male and female counterparts. For them, this presented a clear impediment.\n\nBut beyond their lack of privilege of marginalized people, CRC knew they were more at stake organizing for their freedom. The collective theorized that the \"liberation of all oppressed peoples necessitates the destruction of the political and economic systems of Capitalism and Imperialism as well as Patriarchy.\" Meaning that,\"If Black women were free, it would mean that everyone else would have to be free, since our freedom would necessitate the destruction of all systems of oppression.\"\nThe Combahee Statement also notes that \"Feminism is...very threatening to the majority of Black people because it calls into question some of the most basic assumptions about our existence, i.e., that sex should be a determinant of power relationships...The material conditions of most Black people would hardly lead them to upset both economic and sexual arrangements that seem to represent some stability in their lives. Many Black women have a good understanding of both sexism and racism in their lives, but because of the everyday constrictions on their lives cannot risk struggling against them both.\"\n\nIn this final section of the CRC statement, they argued that black feminism should not only address their concerns as black females, but should also address policy issues in the lives of other women, the Third World, and working people. They state, \" We are particularly committed to working on those struggles in which race, sex, and class are simultaneous factors in oppression.\" This type of politic might include organizing around inadequate hospital care in Third World communities, or even for a rape crisis center in Black communities.\n\nThe Combahee Collective also expressed a concern and a desire to publicly address issues of racism in the white women's movement. The Statement is clear that: \"Eliminating racism in the white women's movement is by definition work for white women to do, but we will continue to speak out and to demand accountability on this issue.\"\n\nIn the encyclopedia \"Lesbian Histories and Cultures\", contributing editor Jaime M. Grant contextualizes the CRC's work in the political trends of the time thus:\n\nThe collective came together at a time when many of its members were struggling to define a liberating feminist practice alongside the ascendence of a predominantly white feminist movement, and a Black nationalist vision of women deferring to Black male leadership.\n\nGrant believes the CRC was most important in the \"emergence of coalition politics in the late 1970s and early 1980s... which demonstrated the key roles that progressive feminists of color can play\" in bridging gaps \"between diverse constituencies, while also creating new possibilities for change within deeply divided communities...\" She notes that, in addition to penning the statement, \"collective members were active in the struggle for desegregation of the Boston public schools, in community campaigns against police brutality in Black neighborhoods and on picket lines demanding construction jobs for Black workers.\" \n\nThe collective was also politically active around issues of violence against women, in particular the murder of twelve Black women and one white woman in Boston in 1979. According to Becky Thompson, associate professor at Simmons College in Boston and author of \"A Promise and a Way of Life: White Antiracist Activism\", the Boston Police Department and the media \"attempted to dismiss the murders ... based on the notion that (the women) were alleged to be prostitutes and therefore not worthy of protection or investigation.\"\n\nIn a 1979 journal entry, Barbara Smith wrote:\n\nThat winter and spring were a time of great demoralization, anger, sadness and fear for many Black women in Boston, including myself. It was also for me a time of some of the most intensive and meaningful political organizing I have ever done. The Black feminist political analysis and practice the Combahee River Collective had developed since 1974 enabled us to grasp both the sexual-political and racial-political implications of the murders and positioned us to be the link between the various communities that were outraged: Black people, especially Black women; other women of color; and white feminists, many of whom were also lesbians.\n\nSmith developed these ideas into a pamphlet on the topic, articulating the need \"to look at these murders as both racist and sexist crimes\" and emphasizing the need to \"talk about violence against women in the Black community.\"\n\nIn a 1994 interview with Susan Goodwillie, Smith noted that this action moved the group out into the wider Boston community. She commented that \"the pamphlet had the statement, the analysis, the political analysis, and it said that it had been prepared by the Combahee River Collective. That was a big risk for us, a big leap to identify ourselves in something that we knew was going to be widely distributed.\"\n\nHistorian Duchess Harris believes that \"the Collective was most cohesive and active when the murders in Boston were occurring. Having an event to respond to and to collectively organize around gave them a cause to focus on...\"\n\nThe Collective held their last network retreat in February 1980, and disbanded some time that year.\n\nThe Combahee Collective was large and fluid throughout its history. Collective members and contributors include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41050217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41050217", "title": "Communities Without Boundaries International", "text": "Communities Without Boundaries International\n\nCommunities Without Boundaries International (CWBI) is an international non-governmental tax exempt organization carrying out peacebuilding and sustainable development projects in the US and around the globe, and founded on the philosophy and principles of nonviolence as espoused by Martin Luther King, Jr. and Mohandas K. Gandhi. Their mission is to foster peace through development and the empowerment of communities using the philosophy and principles of nonviolent social change. Its missions are carried out through research, education, and technical assistance in underprivileged, conflict, and post-trauma/conflict communities around the globe.\n\nTheir work can be found in Africa, the Balkans, Turkey, Latin America, the Middle East, South Asia, and North America. CWBI enters communities to break down social boundaries by creating peaceful bridges. The programs are intended to relieve suffering, increase security, and help people take charge of their lives and their communities.\n\nThe techniques employed for accomplishing their work are utilized in community building and community development programs. Constructing local, regional, and international partnerships builds on greater communities for implementing peaceful non-violent social change. Their partnerships are integral for developing and implementing several initiatives: \"From Chaos to Community\" and \"Youth Without Boundaries\". The success of these initiatives led CWBI to speak at the 50th Anniversary March on Washington.\n\nMartin Luther King, Jr. called for a coalition of organizations to bring on new strategies for overcoming barriers enforced by distressed and disadvantaged communities. After his assassination, organizations emerged with new outlooks on breaking barriers, but many were not considering the power nonviolent social change philosophy could bring to underprivileged and disadvantaged parts of the world.\n\nCWBI's emergence came from two previous organizations looking to grasp the same message from Martin Luther King, Jr. In 1990 Coretta Scott King established the Center for Community Development to fill the void of her late husband's vision. Seven years later this initiative was launched nationally as the National Institute for Community Empowerment (NICE) by Johnny J. Mack. Their flagship project was the American Cities Project, targeting neighborhoods in major city urban centers across the United States. The goal of the project was community restoration and revitalizing communities through nonviolent social development.\n\nIn 2007, NICE was re-articulated and Realizing The Dream (RTD) was born in collaboration with Martin Luther King III. RTD was designed to look at the problems and opportunities of the 21st century in freedom, justice, and equality. Simultaneously the organization works towards eliminating poverty, racism and violent conflict in the United States and throughout the World. RTD was eventually subsumed into the King Center for Nonviolent Social Change in 2010.\n\nIn the fall of 2011, CWBI was founded by Johnny Mack, who held responsibility for the launch of both NICE and RTD. He was joined by Dr. Maneshka Eliatamby. CWBI was established to continue the legacy of NICE/RTD. Lessons and strategies were adopted from these campaigns and pursued.\n\nCWBI implements its programs with a theory of change seeking to empower individuals and communities. Community development and community building are at the forefront of this change. Through research, education, training, and technical assistance services, CWBI creates sustainable changes and positive approaches. All of their work is developed with the philosophy and methodologies of nonviolence.\n\nCWBI has implemented several initiatives all geared to new strategies for approaching community development and community building through nonviolence. These initiatives include \"From Chaos to Community: An International Initiative\", which encompasses their \"Bridges\", \"Preventing Chaos\", and \"Global Communities Network\" programs, and \"Youth Without Boundaries\".\n\nCWBI works with a network of local partners for engaging conflict and post-conflict communities in peacebuilding. Through interventions targeting communities with research and education \"From Chaos to Communities\" accomplishes two things. The first is promoting additional change, tolerance, and mutual respect among disparate identity, cultural, ethnic and religious groups. Secondly it enhances the quality of life for target communities establishing a framework for carrying out sustainable development projects. The goal of this initiative is to redress poverty, building community and fostering peace by engaging targeted communities where youth, clergy, and business leaders work together through community building and community development strategies. The \"Bridges\", \"Preventing Chaos\", and \"Global Communities Network\" all fall within this initiative.\n\nPrevious \"From Chaos to Community\" work has been conducted in Bosnia/Herzegovina, India, Kenya, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and the United States.\n\nThis initiative is the violence prevention arm of CWBI. Viewing violence as a strategy employed by groups for positive social change in their community, CWBI bring together elements from philosophical orientation, policies, programs and projects that foster the elimination or mitigation of the elements producing violent responses. CWBI fashions programs for the challenges and opportunities each specific community may be facing. This initiative promotes individuals and groups to take charge of the peace, security, and safety of their communities.\n\nThe \"Global Communities Network\" is CWBI's partnership with communities within the United States and around the world utilized for carrying out its objectives. They are the principal sponsors and/or collaborators in building and sustaining their community empowerment theory of change. They represent the framework for CWBI to achieve its work in community development and community building. This network comprises civil society networks, nonprofits, foundations, and universities, all promoting nonviolence in tangible ways.\n\nThe same network is responsible for helping CWBI place interns and YWB members. CWBI's partnership with these organizations is to effect mutually reinforcing capacity among its membership. Access to the network provides organizational development, leadership development, and resource development training and technical assistance.\n\nThis initiative brings together youth (ages 18–35) from around the world to travel and experience other cultures, lifestyles, and challenges their peers around the world face. CWBI promotes the role of youth in the world, YWB is therefore designed to put youth at the center of program development in their own countries, where they serve, collaborate, and engage in dialogue with their own communities. Young leadership is important in the future for building peace at global, regional, or local levels through means of nonviolence, civic responsibility, and intercultural collaboration. Selected participants of YWB develop leadership skills consistent with nonviolent philosophy while expanding their vision of the world's realities and possibilities.\n\nYWB has members participating in Afghanistan, Bosnia/Herzegovina, Cameroon, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala, Haiti, India, Iran, Kenya, Malaysia, Mali, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda, South Africa, Sri Lanka, United States, and Zimbabwe.\n\nIn 2013, CWBI joined an alliance of other organizations advocating in issues from labor, civil rights and human rights, education, media, and housing, to march on Washington since Martin Luther King Jr.'s historic 1963 March on Washington. The event was to bring the American peoples attention to a variety of issues in the United States. These include worker's rights, immigration, LGBT equality, and women's rights.\n\nCWBI's Johnny Mack, Maneshka Eliatamby, and members of their YWB initiative spoke in front of the Lincoln Memorial, 50 years after Martin Luther King Jr. gave his legendary 'I Have a Dream' speech. Calling on over 20,000 individuals present, Mack and Eliatamby asked to not forget Martin Luther King Jr.'s vision of freedom, justice, and equality. Emphasizing the importance of youth, they launched a new challenge to raise the consciousness of the world for quality education, jobs, and peaceful communities.\n"}
{"id": "2707511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2707511", "title": "Condorcet's jury theorem", "text": "Condorcet's jury theorem\n\nCondorcet's jury theorem is a political science theorem about the relative probability of a given group of individuals arriving at a correct decision. The theorem was first expressed by the Marquis de Condorcet in his 1785 work \"Essay on the Application of Analysis to the Probability of Majority Decisions\".\n\nThe assumptions of the simplest version of the theorem are that a group wishes to reach a decision by majority vote. One of the two outcomes of the vote is \"correct\", and each voter has an independent probability \"p\" of voting for the correct decision. The theorem asks how many voters we should include in the group. The result depends on whether \"p\" is greater than or less than 1/2:\n\n\nTo avoid the need for a tie-breaking rule, we assume \"n\" is odd. Essentially the same argument works for even \"n\" if ties are broken by fair coin-flips.\n\nNow suppose we start with \"n\" voters, and let \"m\" of these voters vote correctly.\n\nConsider what happens when we add two more voters (to keep the total number odd). The majority vote changes in only two cases:\n\n\nThe rest of the time, either the new votes cancel out, only increase the gap, or don't make enough of a difference. So we only care what happens when a single vote (among the first \"n\") separates a correct from an incorrect majority.\n\nRestricting our attention to this case, we can imagine that the first \"n\"-1 votes cancel out and that the deciding vote is cast by the \"n\"-th voter. In this case the probability of getting a correct majority is just \"p\". Now suppose we send in the two extra voters. The probability that they change an incorrect majority to a correct majority is (1-\"p\")\"p\", while the probability that they change a correct majority to an incorrect majority is \"p\"(1-\"p\")(1-\"p\"). The first of these probabilities is greater than the second if and only if \"p\" > 1/2, proving the theorem.\n\nThis proof is direct; it just sums up the probabilities of the majorities. Each term of the sum multiplies the number of combinations of a majority by the probability of that majority. Each majority is counted using a combination, \"n\" items taken \"k\" at a time, where \"n\" is the jury size, and \"k\" is the size of the majority. Probabilities range from 0, the vote is always wrong, to 1, always right. Each person decides independently, so the probabilities of their decisions multiply. The probability of each correct decision is \"p\". The probability of an incorrect decision, \"q\", is the opposite of \"p\", i.e. 1 − \"p\". The power notation, i.e. formula_1 is a shorthand for \"x\" multiplications of \"p\".\n\nCommittee or jury accuracies can be easily estimated by using this approach in computer spreadsheets or programs.\n\nFirst lets take the simplest case of \"n\" = 3, \"p\" = 0.8. We need to show that 3 people have higher than 0.8 chance of being right. Indeed:\n\nNow lets take \"n\" = 9 (the general case works the same). Following the same considerations as in the \"n\" = 3 case, we need to select all options for majorities and multiply by respective \"p\" or \"q\" = 1 − \"p\". So we need to show:\ni.e. we need to show\nBut\n\nThe probability of a correct majority decision \"P\"(\"n\", \"p\"), when the individual probability \"p\" is close to 1/2 grows linearly in terms of \"p\" − 1/2. For \"n\" voters each one having probability \"p\" of deciding correctly and for odd \"n\" (where there are no possible ties):\n\nwhere\n\nand the asymptotic approximation in terms of \"n\" is very accurate. The expansion is only in odd powers and formula_11. In simple terms, this says that when the decision is difficult (\"p\" close to 1/2), the gain by having \"n\" voters grows proportionally to formula_12.\n\nIn a jury comprising an odd number of jurors formula_13, let formula_14 be the probability of a juror voting for the correct alternative and formula_15 be the (second-order) \"correlation coefficient\" between any two correct votes. If all higher-order correlation coefficients in the Bahadur representation of the joint probability distribution of votes equal to zero, and formula_16 is an admissible pair, then:\n\nThe probability of the jury collectively reaching the correct decision (Condorcet probability) under simple majority is given by:\n\nformula_17, where formula_18 is the \"regularized incomplete beta function\".\n\n\"Example:\" Take a jury of three jurors formula_19, with individual competence formula_20 and second-order correlation formula_21. Then formula_22. The competence of the jury is lower than the competence of a single juror, which equals to formula_23. Moreover, enlarging the jury by two jurors formula_24 decreases the jury competence formula_25.\n\nNote that formula_20 and formula_21 is an admissible pair of parameters. For formula_28 and formula_20, the maximum admissible second-order correlation coefficient equals formula_30.\n\nThe above example shows that when the individual competence is low but the correlation is high\n\n\nThe above result is due to Kaniovski and Zaigraev, who discuss optimal jury design for homogenous juries with correlated votes.\n\nThis version of the theorem is correct, given its assumptions, but its assumptions are unrealistic in practice. Some objections that are commonly raised:\n\n\nNonetheless, Condorcet's jury theorem provides a theoretical basis for democracy, even if somewhat idealized, as well as a basis of the decision of questions of fact by jury trial, and as such continues to be studied by political scientists.\n\nThe Condorcet jury theorem has recently been used to conceptualize score integration when several physician readers (radiologists, endoscopists, etc.) independently evaluate images for disease activity. This task arises in central reading performed during clinical trials and has similarities to voting. According to the authors, the application of the theorem can translate individual reader scores into a final score in a fashion that is both mathematically sound (by avoiding averaging of ordinal data), mathematically tractable for further analysis, and in a manner that is consistent with the scoring task at hand (based on decisions about the presence or absence of features, a subjective classification task)\n\nThe Condorcet jury theorem is also used in ensemble learning in the field of machine learning. An ensemble method combines the predictions of many individual classifiers by majority voting. Assuming that each of the individual classifiers predict with slightly greater than 50% accuracy, then the ensemble of their predictions will be far greater than their individual predictive scores.\n"}
{"id": "29625592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29625592", "title": "Crisis situations and unrest in Europe since 2000", "text": "Crisis situations and unrest in Europe since 2000\n\nList of crises situations and major protests in countries of Europe since 2000.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35537470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35537470", "title": "Customary international humanitarian law", "text": "Customary international humanitarian law\n\nCustomary international humanitarian law is a body of unwritten rules of public international law, which govern conduct during armed conflict.\n\nCustomary international law, like international treaty law, is recognized as a primary source of public international law. While international treaties are written agreements by which States establish certain rules, customary international law consists of unwritten rules which derive from “general practice accepted as law”. Therefore, for a rule of international custom to be established, two elements are required: “an objective one, the repeated behaviour of States ... and a subjective one, the belief that such behaviour depends on a legal obligation (\"opinio juris sive necessitatis\")”. The objective element is also often referred to as State practice; the subjective element as opinio juris.\n\nInternational humanitarian law (IHL), also known as the law of war or the law of armed conflict, is the area of public international law which aims, “for humanitarian reasons, to limit the effects of armed conflict. It protects persons who are not or are no longer participating in the hostilities and restricts the means and methods of warfare”.\n\nWar is as old as mankind and so, in a sense, is IHL. Behaviour during armed conflict “has always been subject to certain principles and customs”, based on the practices of armies around the world. Since the mid-19th century, however, many such rules have been codified by States in international treaties, like the Hague Regulations and Geneva Conventions. Not withstanding this increasing codification of IHL, customary rules remain relevant in contemporary armed conflicts.\n\nCustomary international humanitarian law complements the protection provided by international humanitarian treaty law in situations of armed conflict. International treaty law only binds States which are party to a particular treaty; customary international law, on the other hand, is, in general, binding on all States. And while some international humanitarian law treaties, such as the 1949 Geneva Conventions, are today universally ratified, this is not the case for all treaties. Here, customary international humanitarian law can be used to fill gaps in the protection provided in situations of armed conflict.\n\nFurthermore, many of today's armed conflicts do not take place between States but are of a non-international character. International humanitarian treaty law, however, while highly detailed as regards international armed conflicts, is considerably less developed in relation to non-international armed conflicts. Here, again, customary international humanitarian law can give further guidance.\n\nIn 2005, mandated by the States convened at the 26th International Conference of the Red Cross and Red Crescent, and after nearly 10 years of research and consultation, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) presented a Study on Customary International Humanitarian Law, published by Cambridge University Press. Volume I of the study contains 161 rules assessed to be of customary status, most of them applicable in both international and non-international armed conflicts. Volume II presents the practice which forms the basis of the conclusions in Volume I.\n\nSince August 2010, an online version of the Study, the ICRC's Customary IHL Database, is also available. Part One of the database reflects Volume I of the print edition of the study. Part Two, based on Volume II of the print edition, presents state practice relating to most aspects of IHL, as expressed in national legislation, military manuals, official statements, and case-law, and the practice of other entities such as international organizations and international courts and tribunals. Part Two is updated regularly through a joint project of the ICRC and the British Red Cross Society, based at the Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, University of Cambridge.\n\nA customary law database, developed in association with the British Red Cross, was launched by the International Committee of the Red Cross in August 2011. It is designed to be used as a legal reference in international and non-international armed conflicts, including by courts, tribunals and international organizations.\n\nThe database is updated on a regular basis. A selection of national practice of 30 countries was added in March 2011 followed by an additional 27 countries in November of the same year. On 13 December 2012, the ICRC made available its updated collection and analysis of practice from 23 countries – Argentina, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burundi, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Djibouti, El Salvador, Guatemala, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Japan, Mexico, Peru, Serbia, Serbia and Montenegro, Senegal, Spain, Switzerland, Uruguay, and Viet Nam.\n\n"}
{"id": "15835606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15835606", "title": "David Levy (psychologist)", "text": "David Levy (psychologist)\n\nDavid Anthony Levy (born 1954) is an American psychologist, professor, author, stage director, and actor. He has provided psychological perspectives on current events in numerous broadcast and publication media, and is co-author of an internationally best-selling textbook on cross-cultural psychology and critical thinking.\n\nLevy attended Morningside High School in Inglewood, California, from 1968–1970, and West High School from 1970-1972. He graduated \"magna cum laude\" from the University of California, Los Angeles in 1978 with a B.A. degree in theater arts, where he was a recipient of the Hugh O'Brian Acting Awards. He received an M.A. degree in psychology from Pepperdine University in 1984, a second M.A. in psychology from UCLA in 1987, and a Ph.D. in psychology from UCLA in 1990, where he specialized in social psychology, with minors in psychological assessment and personality psychology.\n\nLevy is Professor of Psychology at Pepperdine University’s Graduate School of Education and Psychology, where he has been teaching graduate courses since 1986. In 1991, he served as Visiting Professor of Psychology in the Soviet Union, where he delivered lectures and workshops in psychology and psychotherapy at Leningrad State University (now St. Petersburg), the Leningrad Academy of Science, and the Bekhterev PsychoNeurological Institute. He was honored as a recipient of the Howard A. White Award for Teaching Excellence at Pepperdine (2014), as a Harriet and Charles Luckman Distinguished Teaching Fellow at Pepperdine (1994–1999), and was a recipient of the Shepard Ivory Franz Distinguished Teaching Award (1989–1990) at UCLA, and the Charles F. Scott Fellowship (1989–1990) at UCLA.\nLevy holds professional licenses both in psychology and in marriage and family therapy. He has worked extensively in private practice and inpatient psychiatric settings, he has supervised clinical interns, and he has used his expertise in psychological testing (particularly the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory) in forensic cases.\n\nIn his featured appearances on over 70 television and radio programs (including CBS, CNN, NBC, CNBC, PBS, NPR, Fox, A&E, Nat Gio, KABC, and E!), Levy, a specialist in celebrity psychology, has provided psychological perspectives on current events, and he has examined issues and trends in the mental health field. He has also been quoted extensively in print and online media, most notably providing sport psychology analyses of the Los Angeles Lakers for the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nLevy’s numerous theoretical and empirical research studies have been published in scientific journals and presented at professional conferences. His book, \"Tools of Critical Thinking: Metathoughts for Psychology\", garnered widespread acclaim and won the endorsements of some of the nation’s most prominent psychologists, including Elizabeth Loftus, Shelley Taylor, Robert Carson, David Myers, and Anne Peplau, with a foreword by Thomas Szasz.\n\nLevy collaborated with Eric Shiraev (George Mason University) on \"Cross-Cultural Psychology: Critical Thinking and Contemporary Applications\", which became an internationally best-selling textbook. He is the author of \"Family Therapy: History, Theory, and Practice\", which was the first textbook on the topic to be available to Russian readers. His Levy Optimism-Pessimism Scale (LOPS) has been utilized internationally in a variety of research contexts.\n\nHe is also the author of numerous satirical articles, including \"The Emperor’s Postmodern Clothes: A Brief Guide to Deconstructing Academically Fashionable Phrases for the Uninitiated\". \"How to Be a Good Psychotherapy Patient\", \"Psychometric Infallibility Realized: The One-Size-Fits-All Psychological Profile\", \"Stinks and Instincts: An Empirical Investigation of Freud’s Excreta Theory\", and \"A Proposed Category for the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM): Pervasive Labeling Disorder\".\n\nLevy co-wrote 60 episodes of the daytime television serial \"Secret Lives\", (produced by Dan Enright of Barry & Enright Productions).\n\nLevy co-created and directed the world premiere of \"Let's Call the Whole Thing Gershwin\", which marked the first theatrical revue of the music and lyrics of George Gershwin and Ira Gershwin. Levy also directed the West Coast premiere of William Gibson’s \"Golda: A Partial Portrait\", starring Liz Sheridan. He assisted Steve Allen in directing \"Seymour Glick is Alive But Sick\" (with Bill Maher), a satirical musical revue produced and written by Allen.\n\nLevy had a starring role in the children’s television series \"Wonderbug\", for which he received an Emmy nomination in 1977. In 1992 Levy was a guest star on the series \"Cheers\", where he portrayed the leader of Frasier’s “low self-esteem” therapy group. He accrued numerous other professional acting credits, including: \"One Day at a Time\", \"The World's Greatest Lover\" (directed by Gene Wilder), \"Ziegfeld: The Man and His Women\" (portraying Irving Berlin), \"Power\", \"Bobby Vinton’s Rock ‘n Rollers\", \"Little Vic\", and \"The McLean Stevenson Show\".\n\n"}
{"id": "592437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592437", "title": "Declassification", "text": "Declassification\n\nDeclassification is the process of documents that used to be classified as secret ceasing to be so restricted, often under the principle of freedom of information. Procedures for declassification vary by country. Papers may be withheld without being classified as secret, and eventually made available.\n\nClassified information has been governed by various Official Secrets Acts, the latest being the Official Secrets Act 1989. Until 1989 requested information was routinely kept secret invoking the public interest defence; this was largely removed by the 1989 Act. The Freedom of Information Act 2000 largely requires information to be disclosed unless there are good reasons for secrecy.\n\nConfidential government papers such as the yearly cabinet papers used routinely to be withheld formally, although not necessarily classified as secret, for 30 years under the thirty year rule, and released usually on a New Year's Day; freedom of information legislation has relaxed this rigid approach.\n\nExecutive Order 13526 establishes the mechanisms for most declassifications, within the laws passed by Congress. The originating agency assigns a declassification date, by default 10 years. After 25 years declassification review is automatic, with nine narrow exceptions that allow information to continue to be classified. At 50 years there are two exceptions, and classifications beyond 75 years require special permission. Because of changes in policy and circumstances, agencies are expected to actively review documents that have been classified for fewer than 25 years. They must also respond to Mandatory Declassification Review and Freedom of Information Act requests. The National Archives and Records Administration houses the National Declassification Center to coordinate reviews and Information Security Oversight Office to promulgate rules and enforce quality measures across all agencies. NARA reviews documents on behalf of defunct agencies and permanently stores declassified documents for public inspection. The Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel has representatives from several agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1984659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984659", "title": "Democratic League of Bosniaks", "text": "Democratic League of Bosniaks\n\nThe Democratic League of Bosniaks (, , \"Demokratska Liga na Bošnjacite\") is a political party in the Republic of Macedonia, representative of the ethnic Bosniaks living in the Republic of Macedonia.\n\nAt the legislative elections on 15 September 2002, the party won 1 out of 120 seats as part of the Together for Macedonia alliance, led by the Social Democratic Union of Macedonia and the Liberal Democratic Party. Uncontended with the positions at the PR lists of Together for Macedonia alliance for the 2006 parliamentary election, the DLB has left this coalition and entered the coalition between ethnic Albanian parties Democratic Union for Integration and Party for Democratic Prosperity.\n"}
{"id": "2154737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154737", "title": "Detention basin", "text": "Detention basin\n\nA detention basin or retarding basin is an excavated area installed on, or adjacent to, tributaries of rivers, streams, lakes or bays to protect against flooding and, in some cases, downstream erosion by storing water for a limited period of time. These basins are also called \"dry ponds\", \"holding ponds\" or \"dry detention basins\" if no permanent pool of water exists. Some detention ponds are also \"wet ponds\" in that they are designed to permanently retain some volume of water at all times. In its basic form, a detention basin is used to manage water quantity while having a limited effectiveness in protecting water quality, unless it includes a permanent pool feature.\n\nDetention basins are storm water best management practices that provide general flood protection and can also control extreme floods such as a 1 in 100-year storm event. The basins are typically built during the construction of new land development projects including residential subdivisions or shopping centers. The ponds help manage the excess urban runoff generated by newly constructed impervious surfaces such as roads, parking lots and rooftops.\n\nA basin functions by allowing large flows of water to enter but limits the outflow by having a small opening at the lowest point of the structure. The size of this opening is determined by the capacity of underground and downstream culverts and washes to handle the release of the contained water.\n\nFrequently the inflow area is constructed to protect the structure from some types of damage. Offset concrete blocks in the entrance spillways are used to reduce the speed of entering flood water. These structures may also have debris drop vaults to collect large rocks. These vaults are deep holes under the entrance to the structure. The holes are wide enough to allow large rocks and other debris to fall into the holes before they can damage the rest of the structure. These vaults must be emptied after each storm event.\n\nResearch has shown that detention basins built with real-time control of the outflow from the basin are significantly more effective at retaining total suspended solids and associated contaminants, such as heavy metals, when compared to basins without control.\n\nA variant basin design called an extended detention dry basin can limit downstream erosion and control of some pollutants such as suspended solids. This basin type differs from a retention basin, also known as a \"wet pond,\" which includes a permanent pool of water, and which is typically designed to protect water quality.\n\nWhile basic detention ponds are often designed to empty within 6 to 12 hours after a storm, extended detention (ED) dry basins improve on the basic detention design by lengthening the storage time, for example, to 24 or 48 hours. Longer storage times tend to result in improved water quality because additional suspended solids are removed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52260303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52260303", "title": "Eliziane Gama", "text": "Eliziane Gama\n\nEliziane Pereira Gama Ferreira, better known as Eliziane Gama (born February 27, 1977 in Monção) is a Brazilian journalist and politician. She was state deputy (2007–2015). Gama is Federal deputy from Maranhão.\n"}
{"id": "43068760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43068760", "title": "Europe whole and free", "text": "Europe whole and free\n\nEurope Whole and Free is an idea in international relations that describes a Europe governed universally by concepts of liberal democracy espoused by the United States and the European Union.\n\nThe phrase “Europe whole and free” was first used prominently by U.S. President George H. W. Bush in a speech on May 31, 1989, in Mainz, West Germany. Addressing an auditorium full of German citizens and political leaders, including Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Bush laid out his vision for the Europe that should emerge from the end of the Cold War and the waning of Communist and Soviet influence in Europe’s east. He said:\n\nBush’s formulation was seen by foreign policy analysts, including Jim Hoagland and Arnold Horelick, as Bush’s counter-proposal to the concept of a “common European home” offered in the preceding two years by Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. Within two weeks of Bush’s speech, Gorbachev also visited West Germany and declared that the Soviet Union would not interfere in the liberalizations already underway among its allied states in Eastern Europe. While Gorbachev hoped to encourage liberalizing political and economic reforms among the Soviet-allied communist rulers of Europe’s east, Bush envisioned an end to communist or socialist rule and its replacement by multi-party, liberal democracies with capitalist economic systems.\n\nLess than seven months after Bush’s speech, popular protests had forced out the communist governments of Eastern Europe, and Bush and Gorbachev had held a summit meeting in Malta (on 2–3 December) that some observers regarded as marking the end of the Cold War.\nIn the decades following the Cold War’s end and the collapse (in 1991) of the Soviet Union, European nations and the United States pursued efforts to end Europe’s Cold War divisions. As former communist East European countries held free elections and chose non-communist governments, the United States and Western European nations agreed to include them within the continent’s main international institutions – the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) – to include former Soviet and Soviet-bloc states.\nBy 2009, NATO had admitted 12 members from formerly communist-ruled Eastern Europe: the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland in 1999; Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia in 2004; and Albania and Croatia in 2009. The European Union added 11 such members: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia and Hungary in 2004; Bulgaria and Romania in 2007; and Croatia in 2013.\nRussia opposed the inclusion of Eastern European nations, and especially the formerly Soviet Baltic states, within NATO. The Russian government’s opposition hardened under the leadership of Vladimir Putin (as president during 2000-2008, prime minister during 2008-2012, and again president following 2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "602401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602401", "title": "Facial recognition system", "text": "Facial recognition system\n\nA facial recognition system is a technology capable of identifying or verifying a person from a digital image or a video frame from a video source. There are multiple methods in which facial recognition systems work, but in general, they work by comparing selected facial features from given image with faces within a database. It is also described as a Biometric Artificial Intelligence based application that can uniquely identify a person by analysing patterns based on the person's facial textures and shape. \n\nWhile initially a form of computer application, it has seen wider uses in recent times on mobile platforms and in other forms of technology, such as robotics. It is typically used as access control in security systems and can be compared to other biometrics such as fingerprint or eye iris recognition systems. Although the accuracy of facial recognition system as a biometric technology is lower than iris recognition and fingerprint recognition, it is widely adopted due to its contactless and non-invasive process. Recently, it has also become popular as a commercial identification and marketing tool. Other applications include advanced human-computer interaction, video surveillance, automatic indexing of images, and video database, among others. \n\nPioneers of automated face recognition include Woody Bledsoe, Helen Chan Wolf, and Charles Bisson.\n\nDuring 1964 and 1965, Bledsoe, along with Helen Chan and Charles Bisson, worked on using the computer to recognize human faces (Bledsoe 1966a, 1966b; Bledsoe and Chan 1965). He was proud of this work, but because the funding was provided by an unnamed intelligence agency that did not allow much publicity, little of the work was published. Based on the available references, it was revealed that the Bledsoe's initial approach involved the manual marketing of various landmarks on the face such as the eye centers, mouth, etc., and these were mathematically rotated by computer to compensate for pose variation. The distances between landmarks were also automatically computed and compared between images to determine identity.\n\nGiven a large database of images (in effect, a book of mug shots) and a photograph, the problem was to select from the database a small set of records such that one of the image records matched the photograph. The success of the method could be measured in terms of the ratio of the answer list to the number of records in the database. Bledsoe (1966a) described the following difficulties:This project was labeled man-machine because the human extracted the coordinates of a set of features from the photographs, which were then used by the computer for recognition. Using a graphics tablet (GRAFACON or RAND TABLET), the operator would extract the coordinates of features such as the center of pupils, the inside corner of eyes, the outside corner of eyes, point of widows peak, and so on. From these coordinates, a list of 20 distances, such as width of mouth and width of eyes, pupil to pupil, were computed. These operators could process about 40 pictures an hour. When building the database, the name of the person in the photograph was associated with the list of computed distances and stored in the computer. In the recognition phase, the set of distances was compared with the corresponding distance for each photograph, yielding a distance between the photograph and the database record. The closest records are returned.\n\nBecause it is unlikely that any two pictures would match in head rotation, lean, tilt, and scale (distance from the camera), each set of distances is normalized to represent the face in a frontal orientation. To accomplish this normalization, the program first tries to determine the tilt, the lean, and the rotation. Then, using these angles, the computer undoes the effect of these transformations on the computed distances. To compute these angles, the computer must know the three-dimensional geometry of the head. Because the actual heads were unavailable, Bledsoe (1964) used a standard head derived from measurements on seven heads.\n\nAfter Bledsoe left PRI in 1966, this work was continued at the Stanford Research Institute, primarily by Peter Hart. In experiments performed on a database of over 2000 photographs, the computer consistently outperformed humans when presented with the same recognition tasks (Bledsoe 1968). Peter Hart (1996) enthusiastically recalled the project with the exclamation, \"It really worked!\"\n\nBy about 1997, the system developed by Christoph von der Malsburg and graduate students of the University of Bochum in Germany and the University of Southern California in the United States outperformed most systems with those of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Maryland rated next. The Bochum system was developed through funding by the United States Army Research Laboratory. The software was sold as ZN-Face and used by customers such as Deutsche Bank and operators of airports and other busy locations. The software was \"robust enough to make identifications from less-than-perfect face views. It can also often see through such impediments to identification as mustaches, beards, changed hair styles and glasses—even sunglasses\".\n\nIn 2006, the performance of the latest face recognition algorithms were evaluated in the Face Recognition Grand Challenge (FRGC). High-resolution face images, 3-D face scans, and iris images were used in the tests. The results indicated that the new algorithms are 10 times more accurate than the face recognition algorithms of 2002 and 100 times more accurate than those of 1995. Some of the algorithms were able to outperform human participants in recognizing faces and could uniquely identify identical twins.\n\nU.S. Government-sponsored evaluations and challenge problems have helped spur over two orders-of-magnitude in face-recognition system performance. Since 1993, the error rate of automatic face-recognition systems has decreased by a factor of 272. The reduction applies to systems that match people with face images captured in studio or mugshot environments. In Moore's law terms, the error rate decreased by one-half every two years.\n\nLow-resolution images of faces can be enhanced using face hallucination.\n\nEssentially, the process of face recognition is performed in two steps. The first involves feature extraction and selection and, the second is the classification of objects. Later developments introduced varying technologies to the procedure. Some of the most notable include the following techniques:\n\nSome face recognition algorithms identify facial features by extracting landmarks, or features, from an image of the subject's face. For example, an algorithm may analyze the relative position, size, and/or shape of the eyes, nose, cheekbones, and jaw. These features are then used to search for other images with matching features.\n\nOther algorithms normalize a gallery of face images and then compress the face data, only saving the data in the image that is useful for face recognition. A probe image is then compared with the face data. One of the earliest successful systems is based on template matching techniques applied to a set of salient facial features, providing a sort of compressed face representation.\n\nRecognition algorithms can be divided into two main approaches, geometric, which looks at distinguishing features, or photometric, which is a statistical approach that distills an image into values and compares the values with templates to eliminate variances. Some classify these algorithms into two broad categories: holistic and feature-based models. The former attempts to recognize the face in its entirety while the feature-based subdivide into components such as according to features and analyze each as well as its spatial location with respect to other features.\n\nPopular recognition algorithms include principal component analysis using eigenfaces, linear discriminant analysis, elastic bunch graph matching using the Fisherface algorithm, the hidden Markov model, the multilinear subspace learning using tensor representation, and the neuronal motivated dynamic link matching.\n\nThree-dimensional face recognition technique uses 3D sensors to capture information about the shape of a face. This information is then used to identify distinctive features on the surface of a face, such as the contour of the eye sockets, nose, and chin.\n\nOne advantage of 3D face recognition is that it is not affected by changes in lighting like other techniques. It can also identify a face from a range of viewing angles, including a profile view. Three-dimensional data points from a face vastly improve the precision of face recognition. 3D research is enhanced by the development of sophisticated sensors that do a better job of capturing 3D face imagery. The sensors work by projecting structured light onto the face. Up to a dozen or more of these image sensors can be placed on the same CMOS chip—each sensor captures a different part of the spectrum...\n\nEven a perfect 3D matching technique could be sensitive to expressions. For that goal a group at the Technion applied tools from metric geometry to treat expressions as isometriesA new method is to introduce a way to capture a 3D picture by using three tracking cameras that point at different angles; one camera will be pointing at the front of the subject, second one to the side, and third one at an angle. All these cameras will work together so it can track a subject’s face in real time and be able to face detect and recognize.\n\nAnother emerging trend uses the visual details of the skin, as captured in standard digital or scanned images. This technique, called Skin Texture Analysis, turns the unique lines, patterns, and spots apparent in a person’s skin into a mathematical space.\n\nSurface Texture Analysis, works much the same way facial recognition does. A picture is taken of a patch of skin, called a skinprint. That patch is then broken up into smaller blocks. Using algorithms to turn the patch into a mathematical, measurable space, the system will then distinguish any lines, pores and the actual skin texture. It can identify contrast between identical pairs, which are not yet possible using facial recognition software alone.\n\nTests have shown that with the addition of skin texture analysis, performance in recognizing faces can increase 20 to 25 percent.\n\nAs every method has its advantages and disadvantages, technology companies have amalgamated the traditional, 3D recognition and Skin Textual Analysis, to create recognition systems that have higher rates of success.\n\nCombined techniques has an advantage over other systems. It is relatively insensitive to changes in expression, including blinking, frowning or smiling and has the ability to compensate for mustache or beard growth and the appearance of eyeglasses. The system is also uniform with respect to race and gender.\n\nA different form of taking input data for face recognition is by using thermal cameras, by this procedure the cameras will only detect the shape of the head and it will ignore the subject accessories such as glasses, hats, or make up. Unlike conventional cameras, thermal cameras can capture facial imagery even in low-light and nighttime conditions without using a flash and exposing the position of the camera. However, a problem with using thermal pictures for face recognition is that the databases for face recognition is limited. Diego Socolinsky, and Andrea Selinger (2004) research the use of thermal face recognition in real life, and operation sceneries, and at the same time build a new database of thermal face images. The research uses low-sensitive, low-resolution ferro-electric electrics sensors that are capable of acquire long wave thermal infrared (LWIR). The results show that a fusion of LWIR and regular visual cameras has the greater results in outdoor probes. Indoor results show that visual has a 97.05% accuracy, while LWIR has 93.93%, and the Fusion has 98.40%, however on the outdoor proves visual has 67.06%, LWIR 83.03%, and fusion has 89.02%. The study used 240 subjects over the period of 10 weeks to create the new database. The data was collected on sunny, rainy, and cloudy days.\n\nIn 2018, researchers from the U.S. Army Research Laboratory (ARL) developed a technique that would allow them to match facial imagery obtained using a thermal camera with those in databases that were captured using a conventional camera. This approach utilized artificial intelligence and machine learning to allow researchers to visibly compare conventional and thermal facial imagery. Known as a cross-spectrum synthesis method due to how it bridges facial recognition from two different imaging modalities, this method synthesize a single image by analyzing multiple facial regions and details. It consists of a non-linear regression model that maps a specific thermal image into a corresponding visible facial image and an optimization issue that projects the latent projection back into the image space.\n\nARL scientists have noted that the approach works by combining global information (i.e. features across the entire face) with local information (i.e. features regarding the eyes, nose, and mouth). In addition to enhancing the discriminability of the synthesized image, the facial recognition system can be used to transform a thermal face signature into a refined visible image of a face. According to performance tests conducted at ARL, researchers found that the multi-region cross-spectrum synthesis model demonstrated a performance improvement of about 30% over baseline methods and about 5% over state-of-the-art methods. It has also been tested for landmark detection for thermal images.\n\nSocial media platforms have adopted facial recognition capabilities to diversify their functionalities in order to attract a wider user base amidst stiff competition from different applications.\n\nFounded in 2013, Looksery went on to raise money for its face modification app on Kickstarter. After successful crowdfunding, Looksery launched in October 2014. The application allows video chat with others through a special filter for faces that modifies the look of users. While there are image augmenting applications such as FaceTune and Perfect365, they are limited to static images, whereas Looksery allowed augmented reality to live videos. In late 2015, SnapChat purchased Looksery, which would then become its landmark lenses function.\n\nSnapChat's animated lenses, which used facial recognition technology, revolutionized and redefined the selfie, by allowing users to add filters to change the way they look. The selection of filters changes every day, some examples include one that make users look like an old and wrinkled version of themselves, one that airbrushes their skin, and one that places a virtual flower crown on top of their head. The dog filter is the most popular filter that helped propelled the continual success of SnapChat, with popular celebrities such as Gigi Hadid, Kim Kardashian and the likes regularly posting videos of themselves with the dog filter. \n\nDeepFace is a deep learning facial recognition system created by a research group at Facebook. It identifies human faces in digital images. It employs a nine-layer neural net with over 120 million connection weights, and was trained on four million images uploaded by Facebook users. The system is said to be 97% accurate, compared to 85% for the FBI's Next Generation Identification system. One of the creators of the software, Yaniv Taigman, came to Facebook via their 2007 acquisition of Face.com.\n\nAn emerging use of Facial recognition is in use of ID verification services. Many companies are working in market now to provide these services to banks, ICOs and other e-businesses. \n\nApple introduced Face ID on the flagship iPhone X as a biometric authentication successor to the Touch ID, a fingerprint based system. Face ID has a facial recognition sensor that consists of two parts: a \"Romeo\" module that projects more than 30,000 infrared dots onto the user's face, and a \"Juliet\" module that reads the pattern. The pattern is sent to a local \"Secure Enclave\" in the device's central processing unit (CPU) to confirm a match with the phone owner's face. The facial pattern is not accessible by Apple. The system will not work with eyes closed, in an effort to prevent unauthorized access.\n\nThe technology learns from changes in a user's appearance, and therefore works with hats, scarves, glasses and many sunglasses, beard and makeup.\n\nIt also works in the dark. This is done by using a \"Flood Illuminator\", which is a dedicated infrared flash that throws out invisible infrared light onto the user's face to properly read the 30,000 facial points.\n\nThe Australian Border Force and New Zealand Customs Services have set up an automated border processing system called SmartGate that uses face recognition, which compares the face of the traveller with the data in the e-passport microchip. Major Canadian airports will be using a new facial recognition program as part of the Primary Inspection Kiosk program that will compare people's faces to their passports. This program will first come to Ottawa International Airport in early 2017 and to other airports in 2018. The Tocumen International Airport in Panama operates an airport-wide surveillance system using hundreds of live face recognition cameras to identify wanted individuals passing through the airport.\n\nPolice forces in the United Kingdom have been trialling live facial recognition technology at public events since 2015. However, a recent report and investigation by Big Brother Watch found that these systems were up to 98% inaccurate.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State operates one of the largest face recognition systems in the world with a database of 117 million American adults, with photos typically drawn from driver's license photos. Although it is still far from completion, it is being put to use in certain cities to give clues as to who was in the photo. The FBI uses the photos as an investigative tool not for positive identification. As of 2016, facial recognition was being used to identify people in photos taken by police in San Diego and Los Angeles (not on real-time video, and only against booking photos) and use was planned in West Virginia and Dallas.\n\nIn recent years Maryland has used face recognition by comparing people's faces to their driver's license photos. The system drew controversy when it was used in Baltimore to arrest unruly protesters after the death of Freddie Gray in police custody. Many other states are using or developing a similar system however some states have laws prohibiting its use.\n\nThe FBI has also instituted its Next Generation Identification program to include face recognition, as well as more traditional biometrics like fingerprints and iris scans, which can pull from both criminal and civil databases.\n\nIn 2017, Time & Attendance company ClockedIn released facial recognition as a form of attendance tracking for businesses and organisations looking to have a more automated system of keeping track of hours worked as well as for security and health and safety control.\n\nIn May 2017, a man was arrested using an automatic facial recognition (AFR) system mounted on a van operated by the South Wales Police. Ars Technica reported that \"this appears to be the first time [AFR] has led to an arrest\".\n\nAs of late 2017, China has deployed facial recognition technology in Xinjiang. Reporters visiting the region found surveillance cameras installed every hundred meters or so in several cities, as well as facial recognition checkpoints at areas like gas stations, shopping centers, and mosque entrances.\n\nIn addition to being used for security systems, authorities have found a number of other applications for face recognition systems. While earlier post-9/11 deployments were well publicized trials, more recent deployments are rarely written about due to their covert nature.\n\nAt Super Bowl XXXV in January 2001, police in Tampa Bay, Florida used Viisage face recognition software to search for potential criminals and terrorists in attendance at the event. 19 people with minor criminal records were potentially identified.\n\nIn the 2000 Mexican presidential election, the Mexican government employed face recognition software to prevent voter fraud. Some individuals had been registering to vote under several different names, in an attempt to place multiple votes. By comparing new face images to those already in the voter database, authorities were able to reduce duplicate registrations. Similar technologies are being used in the United States to prevent people from obtaining fake identification cards and driver’s licenses.\n\nFace recognition has been leveraged as a form of biometric authentication for various computing platforms and devices; Android 4.0 \"Ice Cream Sandwich\" added facial recognition using a smartphone's front camera as a means of unlocking devices, while Microsoft introduced face recognition login to its Xbox 360 video game console through its Kinect accessory, as well as Windows 10 via its \"Windows Hello\" platform (which requires an infrared-illuminated camera). Apple's iPhone X smartphone introduced facial recognition to the product line with its \"Face ID\" platform, which uses an infrared illumination system.\n\nFace recognition systems have also been used by photo management software to identify the subjects of photographs, enabling features such as searching images by person, as well as suggesting photos to be shared with a specific contact if their presence were detected in a photo.\n\nFacial recognition is used as added security in certain websites, phone applications and payment methods.\n\nOne key advantage of a facial recognition system that it is able to person mass identification as it does not require the cooperation of the test subject to work. Properly designed systems installed in airports, multiplexes, and other public places can identify individuals among the crowd, without passers-by even being aware of the system. However, as compared to other biometric techniques, face recognition may not be most reliable and efficient. Quality measures are very important in facial recognition systems as large degrees of variations are possible in face images. Factors such as illumination, expression, pose and noise during face capture can affect the performance of facial recognition systems. Among all biometric systems, facial recognition has the highest false acceptance and rejection rates, thus questions have been raised on the effectiveness of face recognition software in cases of railway and airport security.\nRalph Gross, a researcher at the Carnegie Mellon Robotics Institute in 2008, describes one obstacle related to the viewing angle of the face: \"Face recognition has been getting pretty good at full frontal faces and 20 degrees off, but as soon as you go towards profile, there've been problems.\" Besides the pose variations, low-resolution face images are also very hard to recognize. This is one of the main obstacles of face recognition in surveillance systems.\n\nFace recognition is less effective if facial expressions vary. A big smile can render the system less effective. For instance: Canada, in 2009, allowed only neutral facial expressions in passport photos.\n\nThere is also inconstancy in the datasets used by researchers. Researchers may use anywhere from several subjects to scores of subjects, and a few hundred images to thousands of images. It is important for researchers to make available the datasets they used to each other, or have at least a standard dataset.\n\nData privacy is the main concern when it comes to storing biometrics data in companies. Data stores about face or biometrics can be accessed by third party if not stored properly or hacked. In the Techworld, Parris adds (2017), “Hackers will already be looking to replicate people's faces to trick facial recognition systems, but the technology has proved harder to hack than fingerprint or voice recognition technology in the past.”\n\nCritics of the technology complain that the London Borough of Newham scheme has, , never recognized a single criminal, despite several criminals in the system's database living in the Borough and the system having been running for several years. \"Not once, as far as the police know, has Newham's automatic face recognition system spotted a live target.\" This information seems to conflict with claims that the system was credited with a 34% reduction in crime (hence why it was rolled out to Birmingham also). However it can be explained by the notion that when the public is regularly told that they are under constant video surveillance with advanced face recognition technology, this fear alone can reduce the crime rate, whether the face recognition system technically works or does not. This has been the basis for several other face recognition based security systems, where the technology itself does not work particularly well but the user's perception of the technology does.\n\nAn experiment in 2002 by the local police department in Tampa, Florida, had similarly disappointing results.\n\nA system at Boston's Logan Airport was shut down in 2003 after failing to make any matches during a two-year test period.\n\nIn 2014, Facebook stated that in a standardized two-option facial recognition test, its online system scored 97.25% accuracy, compared to the human benchmark of 97.5%.\n\nIn 2018, a report by the civil liberties and rights campaigning organisation Big Brother Watch revealed that two UK police forces, South Wales Police and the Metropolitan Police, were using live facial recognition at public events and in public spaces, but with an accuracy rate as low as 2%. Their report also warned of significant potential human rights violations. It received widespread press coverage in the UK.\n\nSystems are often advertised as having accuracy near 100%; this is misleading as the studies often use much smaller sample sizes than would be necessary for large scale applications. Because facial recognition is not completely accurate, it creates a list of potential matches. A human operator must then look through these potential matches and studies show the operators pick the correct match out of the list only about half the time. This causes the issue of targeting the wrong suspect.\n\nCivil rights right organizations and privacy campaigners such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Big Brother Watch and the ACLU express concern that privacy is being compromised by the use of surveillance technologies. Some fear that it could lead to a “total surveillance society,” with the government and other authorities having the ability to know the whereabouts and activities of all citizens around the clock. This knowledge has been, is being, and could continue to be deployed to prevent the lawful exercise of rights of citizens to criticize those in office, specific government policies or corporate practices. Many centralized power structures with such surveillance capabilities have abused their privileged access to maintain control of the political and economic apparatus, and to curtail populist reforms.Face recognition can be used not just to identify an individual, but also to unearth other personal data associated with an individual – such as other photos featuring the individual, blog posts, social networking profiles, Internet behavior, travel patterns, etc. – all through facial features alone. Concerns have been raised over who would have access to the knowledge of one's whereabouts and people with them at any given time. Moreover, individuals have limited ability to avoid or thwart face recognition tracking unless they hide their faces. This fundamentally changes the dynamic of day-to-day privacy by enabling any marketer, government agency, or random stranger to secretly collect the identities and associated personal information of any individual captured by the face recognition system. Consumers may not understand or be aware of what their data is being used for, which denies them the ability to consent to how their personal information gets shared.Face recognition was used in Russia to harass women allegedly involved in online pornography. In Russia there is an app 'FindFace' which can identify faces with about 70% accuracy using the social media app called VK. This app would not be possible in other countries which do not use VK as their social media platform photos are not stored the same way as with VK.In July 2012, a hearing was held before the Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law of the Committee on the Judiciary, United States Senate, to address issues surrounding what face recognition technology means for privacy and civil liberties.In 2014, the National Telecommunications and Information Association (NTIA) began a multi-stakeholder process to engage privacy advocates and industry representatives to establish guidelines regarding the use of face recognition technology by private companies. In June 2015, privacy advocates left the bargaining table over what they felt was an impasse based on the industry representatives being unwilling to agree to consent requirements for the collection of face recognition data. The NTIA and industry representatives continued without the privacy representatives, and draft rules are expected to be presented in the spring of 2016.In July 2015, the United States Government Accountability Office conducted a Report to the Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law, Committee on the Judiciary, U.S. Senate. The report discussed facial recognition technology's commercial uses, privacy issues, and the applicable federal law. It states that previously, issues concerning facial recognition technology were discussed and represent the need for updated federal privacy laws that continually match the degree and impact of advanced technologies. Also, that some industry, government, and privacy organizations are in the process of developing, or have developed, \"voluntary privacy guidelines\". These guidelines vary between the groups, but overall aim to gain consent and inform citizens of the intended use of facial recognition technology. This helps counteract the privacy issues that arise when citizens are unaware where their personal, privacy data gets put to use as the report indicates as a prevalent issue.\n\nThe largest concern with the development of biometric technology, and more specifically facial recognition, has to do with privacy. The rise in facial recognition technologies have led people to be concerned that large companies, such as Google or Apple, or even Government agencies will be using it for mass surveillance of the public. Regardless of whether or not they have committed a crime, in general people do not wish to have their every action watched or track. People tend to believe that, since we live in a free society, we should be able to go out in public without the fear of being identified and surveilled. People worry that with the rising prevalence of facial recognition, they will begin to lose their anonymity.\n\nSocial media web sites such as Facebook have very large numbers of photographs of people, annotated with names. This represents a database which may be abused by governments for face recognition purposes. Facebook's DeepFace has become the subject of several class action lawsuits under the Biometric Information Privacy Act, with claims alleging that Facebook is collecting and storing face recognition data of its users without obtaining informed consent, in direct violation of the Biometric Information Privacy Act. The most recent case was dismissed in January 2016 because the court lacked jurisdiction. Therefore, it is still unclear if the Biometric Information Privacy Act will be effective in protecting biometric data privacy rights.In December 2017, Facebook rolled out a new feature that notifies a user when someone uploads a photo that includes what Facebook thinks is their face, even if they are not tagged. Facebook has attempted to frame the new functionality in a positive light, amidst prior backlashes. Facebook’s head of privacy, Rob Sherman, addressed this new feature as one that gives people more control over their photos online. “We’ve thought about this as a really empowering feature,” he says. “There may be photos that exist that you don’t know about.” \n\nAll over the world, law enforcement agencies have begun using facial recognition software to aid in the identifying of criminals. For example, the Chinese police force were able to identify twenty-five wanted suspects using facial recognition equipment at the Qingdao International Beer Festival, one of which had been on the run for 10 years. The equipment works by recording a 15 second video clip and taking multiple snapshots of the subject. That data is compared and analyzed with images from the police department’s database and within 20 minutes, the subject can be identified with a 98.1% accuracy. In the UK, the police's use of facial recognition technology has been found to be up to 98% inaccurate.\n\nFacial recognition technology has been proven to work less accurately on the people of colour. One study by Joy Buolamwini (MIT Media Lab) and Timnit Gebru (Microsoft Research) found that the error rate for gender recognition for women of color within three commercial facial recognition systems ranged from 23.8% to 36%, whereas for lighter-skinned men it was between 0.0 and 1.6%. Overall accuracy rates for identifying men (91.9%) were higher than for women (79.4%), and none of the systems accommodated a non-binary understanding of gender.\n\nExperts fear that the new technology may actually be hurting the communities the police claims they are trying to protect. It is considered an imperfect biometric, and in a study conducted by Georgetown University researcher Clare Garvie, she concluded that \"there’s no consensus in the scientific community that it provides a positive identification of somebody.”It is believed that with such large margins of error in this technology, both legal advocates and facial recognition software companies say that the technology should only supply a portion of the case – not evidence that can lead to an arrest of an individual. The lack of regulations holding facial recognition technology companies to requirements of racial biased testing can be a significant flaw in the adoption of use in law enforcement. CyberExtruder, a company that markets itself to law enforcement said that they had not performed testing or research on bias in their software. CyberExtruder did note that some skin colours are more difficult for the software to recognize with current limitations of the technology. “Just as individuals with very dark skin are hard to identify with high significance via facial recognition, individuals with very pale skin are the same,” said Blake Senftner, a senior software engineer at CyberExtruder.\n\nFacial recognition systems have been used for emotion recognition In 2016 Facebook acquired emotion detection startup FacioMetrics.\nIn January 2013 Japanese researchers from the National Institute of Informatics created 'privacy visor' glasses that use nearly infrared light to make the face underneath it unrecognizable to face recognition software. The latest version uses a titanium frame, light-reflective material and a mask which uses angles and patterns to disrupt facial recognition technology through both absorbing and bouncing back light sources. In December 2016 a form of anti-CCTV and facial recognition sunglasses called 'reflectacles' were invented by a custom-spectacle-craftsman based in Chicago named Scott Urban. They reflect infrared and, optionally, visible light which makes the users face a white blur to cameras.Another method to protect from facial recognition systems are specific haircuts and make-up patterns that prevent the used algorithms to detect a face.\n\n\n\nTucker,J (2014). How faicial recognition technology came to be, retrieved from https://www.bostonglobe.com/ideas/2014/11/23/facial-recognition-technology-goes-way-back/CkWaxzozvFcveQ7kvdLHGI/story.html\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12120646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12120646", "title": "Gene Logsdon", "text": "Gene Logsdon\n\nGene Logsdon (November 5, 1931 – May 31, 2016) was an American man of letters, cultural and economic critic, and farmer. He was a prolific author of essays, novels, and nonfiction books about agrarian issues, ideals, and techniques.\n\nGene Logsdon farmed in Upper Sandusky, Ohio. He wrote many books and hundreds of articles for numerous publications including \"New Farm\", \"Mother Jones\", \"Orion\", \"Utne Reader\", \"Organic Gardening\", \"Draft Horse Journal\" and the \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nGene Logsdon blogged at The Contrary Farmer blog.\n\n\n\n2000 Ohioana Career Award\n"}
{"id": "27988384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27988384", "title": "Geochang massacre", "text": "Geochang massacre\n\nThe Geochang massacre (, Hanja: 居昌良民虐殺事件) was a massacre conducted by the third battalion of the 9th regiment of the 11th Division of the South Korean Army between 9 February 1951 and 11 February 1951 of 719 unarmed citizens in Geochang, South Gyeongsang district of South Korea. The victims included 385 children. The 11th Division also conducted the Sancheong-Hamyang massacre two days earlier. The general commanding the division was Choe Deok-sin.\n\nIn March 1951, Shin Chung-mok (), a leading assembly lawmaker from Geochang reported the massacre to the National Assembly against South Korean Army cover up. The National Assembly's special investigation team investigated, but was hampered by the South Korean Army's interruption. Shin was arrested and sentenced to death in an Army court martial. In May 1951, the second investigation team was dispatched by the National Assembly and they reported the South Korean Army involvement. After the investigation, Major Han and Colonel Oh Ik-gyun were sentenced to life in prison by a military court. President Syngman Rhee subsequently granted clemency to criminals. This massacre is pointed out as an example of oppression under his rule.\n\nIn April 2004, the Geochang Massacre Memorial Park was founded in memory of the victims, in Geochang.\n\nOn 20 February 2006, National Archives and Records Service reported the files about the massacre were found.\n\nIn 2001, a local court ordered the South Korean government to pay reparations to the victims' families. On 18 May 2004, a general court ruled that a charge of massacre against the South Korean governmental was barred by limitation.\n\nOn 5 June 2008, the South Korean Supreme Court confirmed that the charge was barred by limitation.\n\nIn June 2010, An jeong-a, a researcher for the Truth and Reconciliation Commission disclosed National Defense Ministry official documents on his thesis that the massacre had been done under official South Korean Army order in order to annihilate citizens living in the guerrilla influenced area. On September 9, 2010, An was fired for disclosing Geochang massacre documents. The National Defense Ministry accused An of disclosing the documents which he had been only permitted to view under the condition of nondisclosure.\n\n"}
{"id": "39871562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39871562", "title": "Global Society (journal)", "text": "Global Society (journal)\n\nGlobal Society is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering international relations and globalization. It was established in 1987 as \"Paradigms\" and obtained its current name in 1996. The editor-in-chief is Andrea den Boer (University of Kent). The journal is published by Taylor & Francis on behalf of the University of Kent.\n\n\"Global Society\" is abstracted and indexed in Scopus, EBSCOhost, International Political Science Abstracts Database,Political Science Complete, CSA Worldwide Political Science Abstracts, and PAIS International and Sociological Abstracts.\n\n"}
{"id": "36617857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36617857", "title": "Insider threat", "text": "Insider threat\n\nAn insider threat is a malicious threat to an organization that comes from people within the organization, such as employees, former employees, contractors or business associates, who have inside information concerning the organization's security practices, data and computer systems. The threat may involve fraud, the theft of confidential or commercially valuable information, the theft of intellectual property, or the sabotage of computer systems.\n\nInsiders may have accounts giving them legitimate access to computer systems, with this access originally having been given to them to serve in the performance of their duties; these permissions could be abused to harm the organization. Insiders are often familiar with the organization's data and intellectual property as well as the methods that are in place to protect them. This makes it easier for the insider to circumvent any security controls of which they are aware. Physical proximity to data means that the insider does not need to hack into the organizational network through the outer perimeter by traversing firewalls; rather they are in the building already, often with direct access to the organization's internal network. Insider threats are harder to defend against than attacks from outsiders, since the insider already has legitimate access to the organization's information and assets.\n\nAn insider may attempt to steal property or information for personal gain, or to benefit another organization or country. The threat to the organization could also be through malicious software left running on its computer systems by former employees, a so-called Logic bomb.\n\nInsider threat is an active area of research in academia and government.\n\nThe CERT Coordination Center at Carnegie-Mellon University maintains the CERT Insider Threat Center, which includes a database of more than 850 cases of insider threats, including instances of fraud, theft and sabotage; the database is used for research and analysis. CERT's Insider Threat Team also maintains an informational blog to help organizations and businesses defend themselves against insider crime.\n\nIntent-based Access Control (IBAC), a novel access control model first proposed by Abdulaziz Almehmadi, is an access control system that detects the intention of the user requesting access answering the question \"Why?\" access is being requested as opposed to current access control systems that asks \"Who?\" is requesting access. IBAC is designed to prevent the insider threat as opposed to the current access control systems that are designed to prevent the outsider threat. IBAC is a risk-based access control that assesses risk of access based on the detected intent and the motivation level towards executing that intent. IBAC takes advantage of the robustness of P300-based Concealed Information Test to detect an intent of access and uses the brain signals to detect the motivation level. The access control system has been used on 30 participants with 100% detected intentions of access and all mal-intent users being rejected access before they commit their mal-intended action.\n\nA report published in July 2012 on the insider threat in the U.S. financial sector gives some statistics on insider threat incidents: 80% of the malicious acts were committed at work during working hours; 81% of the perpetrators planned their actions beforehand; 33% of the perpetrators were described as \"difficult\" and 17% as being \"disgruntled\". The insider was identified in 74% of cases. Financial gain was a motive in 81% of cases, revenge in 23% of cases, and 27% of the people carrying out malicious acts were in financial difficulties at the time.\n\nThe US Department of Defense Personnel Security Research Center published a report that describes approaches for detecting insider threats. Earlier it published ten case studies of insider attacks by information technology professionals.\n\nForensically investigating insider data theft is notoriously difficult, and requires novel techniques such as stochastic forensics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3111238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3111238", "title": "Intermediate scrutiny", "text": "Intermediate scrutiny\n\nIntermediate scrutiny, in U.S. constitutional law, is the second level of deciding issues using judicial review. The other levels are typically referred to as rational basis review (least rigorous) and strict scrutiny (most rigorous).\n\nIn order to overcome the intermediate scrutiny test, it must be shown that the law or policy being challenged furthers an important government interest by means that are substantially related to that interest. \n\nIntermediate scrutiny may be contrasted with \"strict scrutiny\", the higher standard of review that requires narrowly tailored and least restrictive means to further a compelling governmental interest, and \"rational basis review\", a lower standard of review that requires the law or policy be rationally related to an legitimate government interest. \n\nThis approach is most often employed in reviewing limits on commercial speech, content-neutral regulations of speech, and state actions discriminating on the basis of sex.\n\nConstitutional Equal Protection analysis applies not only to challenges against the federal government, but also to state and local governments. Although the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause applies only to state and local governments, the United States Supreme Court has implied an Equal Protection limitation on the federal government through a process known as \"reverse incorporation.\" As the Fourteenth Amendment applies directly to the states, the incorporation process was unnecessary to hold this restriction against state and local governments. Equal Protection analysis also applies to both legislative and executive action regardless if the action is of a substantive or procedural nature. Judicially crafted (common law) rules are also valid only if they conform to the requirements of Equal Protection. See, e.g., \"Reed v. Campbell\", 476 U.S. 852 (1986).\n\nIn the context of sex-based classifications, intermediate scrutiny applies to constitutional challenges of equal protection and discrimination.\n\nAn example of a court using intermediate scrutiny came in \"Craig v. Boren\", 429 U.S. 190 (1976), which was the first case in the United States Supreme Court which determined that statutory or administrative sex-based classifications were subject to an intermediate standard of judicial review.\n\nIn \"Mississippi University for Women v. Hogan\" in 1982, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the burden is on the proponent of the discrimination to establish an \"exceedingly persuasive justification\" for sex-based classification to be valid. As such, the court applied intermediate scrutiny in a way that is closer to strict scrutiny and in recent decisions the Court has preferred the term \"exacting scrutiny\" when referring to the intermediate level of Equal Protection analysis. For example the court applied similar exacting intermediate scrutiny when ruling on sex-based classifications in both \"J.E.B. v. Alabama\" (concerning specific strikes against male jurors during jury composition) and \"United States v. Virginia\" (concerning male-only admission to the Virginia Military Institute).\n\nIn \"Glenn v. Brumby\", the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit held that firing based on transgender status was a form of sex discrimination, and therefore subject to intermediate scrutiny.\n\nRestrictions based on illegitimacy are also subjected to intermediate scrutiny in the Equal Protection context.\n\nThe courts have found such scrutiny necessary for a number of reasons. Rationally, imposing legal burdens on an illegitimate person in order to express disapproval of the conduct of her parents is illogical, unjust, and contrary to the fundamental principle that legal burdens should have some relationship to individual wrongdoing. Like race or gender, the court has stressed that an illegitimate person's status of birth is a condition over which she has no control, and it has no bearing on her ability or willingness to contribute to society. In applying increasingly exacting intermediate scrutiny, the courts have noted that illegitimate persons are a stigmatized minority, are vastly outnumbered politically, and are the target of long-standing and continuing invidious legal discrimination. For all these reasons, exacting constitutional scrutiny is mandated under the Equal Protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nAn additional ground for heightening scrutiny of illegitimacy-based discriminatory statutes occurs whenever such statutes involve sex discrimination (as they commonly do). Following a sweep of legislative changes in almost every state in the early nineteenth century all non-marital children were legitimated as to their mothers. Each such child remained illegitimate as to her male parent, only. This gender-based classification disadvantaged male parents and privileged female parents in their fundamental familial relationship to their child. Such gender discrimination was held an additional grounds for intermediate scrutiny of statutory denial of the father-child relationship in cases such as \"Caban v. Mohammed\", 441 U.S. 380 (1979).\n\nCourts have been reluctant to apply intermediate scrutiny to cases centered around sexual orientation. For instance, in \"Romer v. Evans\" 517 US 620 (1996), which struck down an amendment to the Colorado Constitution that invalidated legal protections based on sexual orientation, the United States Supreme Court held that the amendment violated the Equal Protection Clause because the amendment was motivated by a bare desire to harm a politically unpopular group, which is never a legitimate governmental interest.\n\nIn \"Lawrence v. Texas\", 539 U.S. 558 (2003), the U.S. Supreme Court struck down anti-sodomy laws as unconstitutional, explicitly overturning its earlier \"Bowers v. Hardwick\", 478 U.S. 186 (1986) decision, but did not specify the level of scrutiny it applied. In \"Lofton v. Secretary of the Department of Children & Family Services\", 358 F.3d 804 (11th Cir. 2004), the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit explicitly held that \"Lawrence\" did not apply strict scrutiny. However, in 2008, the California Supreme Court adopted the strict scrutiny standard for state laws that discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation in the case \"In re Marriage Cases\".\n\nOn October 18, 2012, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals became the first federal appeals court, in \"Windsor v. United States\", to hold that laws that classify people based on sexual orientation should be subject to intermediate scrutiny. The decision of the Second Circuit was later affirmed by the Supreme Court on June 26, 2013, but the United States Supreme Court did not specifically state the level of scrutiny it applied. On January 21, 2014, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in \"SmithKline Beecham Corp. v. Abbott Laboratories\" that \"classifications based on sexual orientation are subject to heightened scrutiny\", making it the second appellate court to do so.\n\nThere are two types of laws affecting \"free speech\" among United States citizens: content-based and content-neutral. In the free speech context, intermediate scrutiny is the test or standard of review that courts apply when analyzing content-neutral speech versus content-based speech. Content-based speech is reviewed under strict scrutiny in which courts evaluate the value of the subject matter or the content of the communication. Content-neutral laws are evaluated by the nature and scope of the speech regarding the time, place and manner of communication. Content-neutral speech is reviewed under intermediate scrutiny versus strict scrutiny because this speech is only restricted by the way in which the information is communicated; not the information itself. In 1968, \"United States v. O'Brien\" established a four-factor test to determine whether restricting content-neutral speech is constitutional: (1) Is restriction within the constitutional power of government? (2) Does restriction further important or substantial governmental interest? (3) Is the governmental interest unrelated to the suppression of free expression? (4) Is the restriction narrowly tailored – no greater than necessary? Later, a fifth factor was added in \"Ladue v. Gilleo\", 512 U.S. 43 (1994): (5) whether the restriction leaves open ample opportunities of communication.\n\nWhen deciding if a restriction is narrowly tailored, courts consider the setting of the communication. Setting has two divisions: public forum and non- public forum. In a public forum people have a right to express themselves however, not in a non-public forum. \"Adderley v. Florida\", 385 U.S. 39 (1966) held that freedom of speech may be limited in a jailhouse because a jailhouse is not a public forum therefore speech is subject to restriction. The court in Adderley v. Florida used the rational basis test standard of review even though the law was content neutral because a jailhouse is a non-public forum.\n\n\"Ward v. Rock Against Racism\", 491 U.S. 781 (1989) held that a city's restriction on loud music volume controlled by equipment and technicians is constitutional because it is narrowly tailored. \"Madsen v. Women's Health Center\", 512 U.S. 753 (1994) upheld part of an injunction restricting abortion protesters from entering the \"buffer zone\" around the abortion clinic because this was the least restrictive means and still gave protestors ample opportunity to communicate outside the buffer zone on the sidewalk, which was a public forum. The court used the strict scrutiny standard of review in \"Madsen\". \n\nIntermediate scrutiny applies to regulation that does not directly target speech but has a substantial impact on a particular message. It applies to time, place, and manner restrictions on speech, for example, with the additional requirement of \"adequate alternative channels of communication.\" In other words, if restricting the time, place, or manner of speech means that speech cannot take place at all, the regulation fails intermediate scrutiny. It has been used in \"erogenous zoning\" cases such as \"Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc.\", 475 U.S. 41 (1986), that limit the concentration or require concentration of certain types of establishments. It has also been used for other types of content-neutral regulation, as well as for content-neutral speech compulsion. Intermediate scrutiny also applies to regulation of commercial speech, as long as the state interests in regulating relate to fair bargaining. Regulations for other reasons, such as protection of children, are subject to strict scrutiny.\n\nVarious federal and state laws restricting access to guns by certain people, laws that restrict or ban the acquisition or ownership of certain types of firearms by the general population, and laws that restrict the carrying of firearms by private citizens in public places have largely been upheld on the basis of intermediate scrutiny. In many of these cases, such laws have survived intermediate scrutiny on the basis that the government is furthering an \"important interest in public safety\" in enacting laws that constrain the individual right to keep and bear arms under the Second Amendment of the United States Constitution. The United States Supreme Court in its 2008 \"District of Columbia v. Heller\" decision confirmed that the right to \"keep and bear arms\" is an individual right, but also caveated that the Second Amendment is not necessarily \"a right to keep and carry any weapon whatsoever in any manner.\"\n\nHowever, outright bans on acquiring, possessing and carrying any and all types of firearms in Illinois, the District of Columbia and in various cities and counties (notably Chicago and San Francisco) have been struck down, failing to survive intermediate scrutiny where the courts determined that the government overreached in furthering its interest in public safety by completely banning private citizens from obtaining or possessing firearms or carrying firearms in public.\n\nThe Supreme Court has yet to clarify the exact level of scrutiny to be applied to gun control laws, though in its decision in \"D.C. v. Heller\", the Court identified a broad category of laws deemed presumptively constitutional.\n\nThe phrase \"heightened scrutiny\" has been used interchangeably with \"intermediate scrutiny\" but it is unclear if the two are actually legally interchangeable. In \"Witt v. Department of the Air Force\", 527 F.3d 806 (9th Cir. 2008), the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that the law commonly known as \"don't ask, don't tell\" (DADT) was subject to \"heightened\" scrutiny based on its analysis of \"Lawrence\". The court articulated a three-pronged test for heightened scrutiny. To pass, the law \"must advance an important governmental interest, the intrusion must significantly further that interest, and the intrusion must be necessary to further that interest\". This differs from the \"substantially related to important governmental interests\" two-prong test for \"intermediate\" scrutiny. As the Obama administration chose not to appeal \"Witt\" to the Supreme Court, it is binding precedent on the Ninth Circuit and it has been cited as such in \"Log Cabin Republicans v. United States\" (\"LCR\"), another case challenging the constitutionality of DADT. The District court in \"LCR\" applied the three-pronged test in ruling DADT unconstitutional. The administration appealed this decision to the Ninth Circuit. In December 2010 DADT was legislatively repealed. On September 29, 2011, the Ninth Circuit vacated the district court's decision, ruling that the legislative repeal of \"don't ask, don't tell\" rendered the case moot. \n\nThe Obama administration, in its refusal to defend several lawsuits challenging Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, argued that \"heightened\" scrutiny is the appropriate level of scrutiny to apply to statutes that discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation.\n\n"}
{"id": "36253515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36253515", "title": "International Day of Pink", "text": "International Day of Pink\n\nThe International Day of Pink is a Canadian anti-bullying event held annually during the second week of April. The event started when students David Shepherd and Travis Price saw another student, who was wearing a pink shirt, being bullied in their Central Kings Rural High School in Nova Scotia, and deciding to show support for the student by getting everyone at their school to wear pink the following day.\n\nThe initiative inspired youth at Jer's Vision who founded The International Day of Pink, an effort to support their peers internationally with resources and ways to make their schools safer.\n\nIn 2012 over 8 million people participated.\n\nThe International Day of Pink is run by youth volunteers from Jer's Vision, in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. The initiative seeks to support the work of students, educators, community and business in their efforts to stop bullying, discrimination, homophobia and transphobia.\n\nIn 2012, students participating the Day of Pink organized numerous flash mobs, including one on Parliament Hill. The International Day of Pink also shares a Gala with JersVision.org and the event has featured comedian Rick Mercer, Brian Burke of the Toronto Maple Leafs, and former Canadian Ambassador Stephen Lewis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54039143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54039143", "title": "Intersex rights in Kenya", "text": "Intersex rights in Kenya\n\nIntersex people in Kenya face significant human rights violations, starting from birth. There are few protections from mutilation and non-consensual cosmetic medical interventions and no legislative protection from discrimination. Intersex persons may have difficulties in obtaining birth certificates and others forms of documentation.\n\nTraditionally, children who are identified as having an intersex condition at birth were killed. This is beginning to change, according to midwives and birth attendants' organizations. Surviving intersex children may have difficulties in obtaining birth certificates and other forms of identification.\n\nIn December 2017, African intersex activists published a statement setting out local demands.\n\nIn August 2018, the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights published a report calling for research and legal reform to protect the rights of intersex persons in Kenya.\n\nReports suggest that the birth of an intersex infant can be regarded as a curse or bad omen, resulting in infanticide. Seline Okiki, chairperson of the organization of birth attendants, Ten Beloved Sisters, has described how babies born intersex are traditionally killed following birth.\n\nIn 2015, it was reported that an intersex adolescent from Malindi, Muhadh Ishmael, was mutilated and later died in hospital. He had previously been described as a curse on his family.\n\nIntersex people are considered to suffer significant stigma. A Kenyan news report suggests high rates of early school leaving, with the organisation Gama Africa reporting that 60% of 132 known intersex people had dropped out of school \"because of the harassment and treatment they received from their peers and their teachers\". Anecdotal reports point to high levels of suicidality amongst intersex people.\n\nIn the 2010 case of \"Richard Muasya v. the Hon. Attorney General\", Muasya had been convicted of robbery with violence. The case examined whether or not he had suffered discrimination as a result of being born intersex. He was found to have been subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment while in prison.\n\nIntersex people in Kenya do not currently have protections from discrimination, but the rights of intersex people are currently a matter of discussion, led by nominated MP Isaac Mwaura. In part, this followed a landmark court case decided in 2014, of a child who could not commence school without a birth certificate.\n\nIn 2014, in the case of \"Baby ‘A’ (Suing through her Mother E.A) & another v Attorney General & 6 others [2014]\", a Kenyan court ordered the Kenyan government to issue a birth certificate to a five-year-old child born in 2009 with ambiguous genitalia. In Kenya a birth certificate is necessary for attending school, getting a national identity document, and voting. The child's lawyer, John Chigiti, stated that this was a \"first step toward recognizing intersex people\".\n\nIn an earlier, 2010, High Court case, \"Richard Muasya v. the Hon. Attorney General\", the Court had determined that an intersex person was responsible for registering his own birth, following a failure to do so at the time of his birth.\n\nIntersex Awareness Day was first marked in Kenya in 2016. A march in Nairobi was organized by Gama Africa, along with petition presented to parliament and events organized by the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights.\n\nIn 2017, work commenced on a \"Model Law on the rights of intersex persons in Africa\". A first consultation meeting took place at the Centre for Human Rights at the University of Pretoria, in South Africa. Kenyan representatives included John Chigiti of Gender Minorities Action Trust Foundation-Kenya (GMAT), who represented intersex persons in 2010 and 2014 High Court cases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55014773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55014773", "title": "Is Genesis History?", "text": "Is Genesis History?\n\nIs Genesis History? is a 2017 American Christian film that uses creation science, a pseudoscientific concept, to promote Young Earth creationist beliefs that contradict established scientific facts regarding the origin of the Universe, the age of the Earth, and the common descent of all lifeforms.\n\nThe film was written, directed, and produced by Thomas Purifoy Jr., who said he was inspired to make it after his daughter watched the Bill Nye–Ken Ham debate in 2014 and began asking him questions about the creation–evolution controversy. Del Tackett, the creator of Focus on the Family's \"The Truth Project\", narrates the film. Interviewing thirteen creationists, the narrator of the film argues that Genesis portrays real historical events. Other speakers include George Grant, Paul Nelson, Marcus R. Ross, Andrew A. Snelling, and Kurt Wise, as well as Larry Vardiman in the film's bonus features. \n\n\"Is Genesis History?\" was released into American theaters on Thursday, February 23, 2017. It was shown in 704 theaters and grossed $1,796,182 in one night. Over 143,000 people saw the film that night, and its box office earnings were the highest of any film in theaters in the United States that night. The film was shown again in theaters on March 2 and 7, 2017 in the United States, as well as in Canada on March 14, 2017. The film went on to earn a total box office of $2,570,355, after the encore showings. The film was re-released in around 850 theaters for an anniversary showing on February 22, 2018, with a bonus scene of Wheaton College students touring the Ark Encounter, a creationist attraction operated by Answers in Genesis. The students were members of a creationist club which had requested a screening of the film, leading to controversy among the Christian school's faculty, nearly all of whom reject the \"historical creationism\" that \"Is Genesis History?\" presents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54368103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54368103", "title": "JHSF Participações", "text": "JHSF Participações\n\nJHSF Participações is a Brazilian real estate holding company. It is known as the first company in Brazil to prioritize recurrent income assets, including shopping malls, airports, hotels and other real estate projects. The company operates in the Brazilian market, as well as in other countries, such as the United States and Uruguay. Since its foundation, JHSF developed more than 6 million square meters of real estate projects and had a market value of approximately R$1.20 billion in 2017.\n\nThe company was founded under the name JHS in São Paulo, Brazil in 1972 by brothers Fábio and José Roberto Auriemo and two other partners. The company focused on construction and real estate development at its inception. By 1990, JHS had split into two companies with Fábio Auriemo taking control of real estate market operations (JHSF Participações), and José Roberto Auriemo heading the other company (JHSJ).\nIn 2001, JHSF Participações expanded its business into the shopping center segment. The company developed the Shopping Metrô Santa Cruz in São Paulo, Brazil, which was the first mall in the country to have a subway station.\n\nThe company also became the majority shareholder of Fasano Group's hotels at that time.\nJHSF negotiated for Shopping Metrô Santa Cruz to be to sold to BR Malls in 2010. By 2016, Hemisfério Sul Investimentos Group had concluded the purchase of Shopping Metrô Tucuruvi. In 2014, JHSF inaugurated Catarina Fashion Outlet, the first outlet in Brazil in the luxury market. The mall is part of a project that includes São Paulo Catarina Executive Airport, the first private airport for executive aviation in the country. In the same year, Vice President Eduardo Camara took over as CEO and José Auriemo Neto became its chairman of the board of directors.\n\nCamara remained in office until February 2018, when he was replaced by Thiago Alonso de Oliveira. In addition to managing director, Oliveira has accumulated the positions of chief financial officer, director of investor relations and member of the company's Board of Directors.\n\nJHSF Internacional has developed projects in the United States and Uruguay. The company's most notable buildings are 815 on Fifth Avenue in New York City and the real estate development of the residential condominium Las Piedras in Punta del Este, Uruguay.\n\nJHSF launched the Cidade Jardim complex in 2006, which includes the Shopping Cidade Jardim. In addition to the shopping mall, the complex consists of nine residential towers that are \npart of the high-end condominium Parque Cidade Jardim, and three commercial towers that make up the Cidade Jardim Corporate Center.\n"}
{"id": "2489778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2489778", "title": "Kingdom of EnenKio", "text": "Kingdom of EnenKio\n\nThe Kingdom of EnenKio is a falsely claimed micronation near the Marshall Islands run by Robert Moore. \n\nThe Republic of the Marshall Islands has claimed Wake Island, which it calls \"Enen-Kio\". In 1973, Marshallese lawmakers meeting in Saipan at the Congress of Micronesia, the legislative body for the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, asserted that \"Enen-Kio is and always has been the property of the people of the Marshall Islands.\" Their claim was based on oral legends and songs. \"EnenKio\" means \"Island of the orange flower\" and comes from the small orange flower that is native to the island.\n\nThe self-declared Kingdom of EnenKio has also claimed Wake Island as a separate sovereign nation and has issued passports. The Kingdom of EnenKio is not recognized in any international forum as a sovereign state, nor does any internationally recognized state recognize it. In 1997 the Dominion of Melchizedek, a micronation engaged in financial fraud, reported that the two had entered into relations. The Kingdom of EnenKio is characterized as a scam by anti-fraud website Quatloos! In 2000, Robert Moore, who claimed to be the head of state, was prevented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from fraudulently issuing bonds for the non-existent nation.\n\nOn 23 April 1998 the Marshall Islands government issued Circular Note 01-98, which vigorously denied the Kingdom of EnenKio and the Dominion of Melchizedek's claims:\n"}
{"id": "44960129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44960129", "title": "List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor", "text": "List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\n\nThe List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor is an annual publication issued by the United States Government’s Bureau of International Labor Affairs at the U.S. Department of Labor. It has been published within the December 2014 Department of Labor report issued in its sixth updated edition. The TVPRA has been reauthorized by Congress in 2008, 2011 and 2013. A Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act has passed House in January 2015.\n\nThe list has 136 goods that ILAB \"has reason to believe are produced by forced labor or child labor\" in the 74 countries mentioned. According to the report, agriculture, forestry and fishing are the sectors where child labor and forced labor are most common. Manufacturing, mining, quarrying and pornography complete the list.\n\nFounded in 1947, the Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB) has published numerous reports on the subject of labor, child labor, forced labor and forced child labor around the world. Since 2009, the Bureau has been issuing an updated \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" yearly. The report listed 122 goods from 58 countries in its first edition in 2009. In 2014, it listed 136 goods from 74 countries.\n\nThe TVPRA List indicates the goods and countries where ILAB has recorded a significant incidence of child labor and forced labor without specifying the individual companies or businesses involved. Exhaustive research has been conducted in order to provide a comprehensive list based on publicly available sources.\n\nIn 2009, the Bureau's research reported more goods produced by child labor than by forced labor. Agricultural crops represented the largest category of goods. In fact, the List had 60 agricultural goods, 38 manufactured goods and 23 mined goods. Child labor and forced labor were mostly adopted in the production of cotton in the agricultural sector, the making of bricks in manufacturing, and gold mining in the mining industries. In 2014, agriculture, forestry and fishing represented the largest category of goods in the list and 126 goods were reported to be globally produced by child labor in comparison with 55 goods produced by forced labor. Instances of such working conditions were observed in relatively the same sectors.\n\nIn 2014, the List identified India as the country with the most goods produced by both child labor and forced labor with up to 25 goods listed. India is followed by Brazil (16 goods), Bangladesh (15 goods), Burma (14 goods), the Philippines (13 goods) and China (12 goods).\n\nThe TVPRA List aims at raising awareness about child labor and forced labor at the national and the international level and reinforces the primordial purpose of governments and societies to effectively eliminate forced labor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46800548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46800548", "title": "List of Intelligence Squared US Debates", "text": "List of Intelligence Squared US Debates\n"}
{"id": "26728210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26728210", "title": "List of national capital city name etymologies", "text": "List of national capital city name etymologies\n\nThis list covers English language national capital city names with their etymologies. Some of these include notes on indigenous names and their etymologies. Some of these etymologies are uncertain. The former capitals also have their etymologies listed in this article.\n\nBritish India\n\nYaren\n(1821–1857 alternating between\nConservative govts.: Granada\nand Liberal govts.: León)\n\nthat Bergus, Burgus, means small castle. Guadix adds that the Arabic بورجوا burgo, \"thatched house, borough\" means that the name could have been taken from the Goths.\n\n (Republic of China):\n\n"}
{"id": "2143460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2143460", "title": "Macedonian Alliance for European Integration", "text": "Macedonian Alliance for European Integration\n\nThe Macedonian Alliance for European Integration (Macedonian Party) ( ) is a political party of the ethnic Macedonians in Albania. It was established on 30 October 2004 under the name \"Macedonian Alliance for European Integration\" and was registered as a political party on 8 June 2005.\n\nThe first congress of the party was held on 25 April 2009 in Tirana, the capital city of Albania. On the congress the party delegates made several major decisions:\n\n\nIn 2011, Macedonian Alliance for European Integration informed the mediums that Macedonians in Albania will boycott the Albanian Census of 2011. Also, the party denied the results, based on the Census Law Amendments approved by the Albanian Parliament that established a fine of $1,000 to each person declaring unreal or partial data, specifically declaring ethnicity different to what is written in the birth certificate.\n\nThe party participated in 2007 Albanian local election, obtaining 1.086 votes (0,08%) and gaining 4 councillor mandates: 1 in Trebisht and 3 in Liqenas, and Edmond Temelko with 1.468 votes supported by PS, LSI, PSD, PDS and AD was elected as mayor of Liqenas.\n\nThe party participated in the 2009 Albanian parliamentary election and entered a coalition with the Democratic Party of Albania of prime minister Sali Berisha.\n\nIn the 2011 local elections of Albania, the Macedonian Party president Edmond Temelko war re-elected as mayor of Pustec Municipality. The party received a plurality in two municipalities, Liqenas (28.5%) and Trebisht (19.6%). The party also received a significant percentage of votes in Bilisht, Pirg, and other regions bordering the Republic of Macedonia.\n\nThe party participated in 2015 Albanian local election, obtaining 3,647 votes (0.23%) and gaining 9 councilor mandates: 7 in Pustec, 1 in Pogradec and 1 in Maliq, and Edmond Temelko with 2,076 votes supported by ASE was elected as mayor of Pustec.\n\n"}
{"id": "58783166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58783166", "title": "Marty Rosenbluth", "text": "Marty Rosenbluth\n\nMarty Rosenbluth is an immigration lawyer and civil rights activist.\n\nRosenbluth is a native of New York who attended University of North Carolina School of Law. He is Jewish and has said he lost many members of his family during The Holocaust. He volunteered for Amnesty International and spent seven years in the West Bank as an advocate for Palestinians who were prohibited by the government from working. He helped produce the award-winning documentary \"Jerusalem: An Occupation Set In Stone?\" in 1995, which detailed Israel's urban planning policies and the effects they had on Palestinians. He started the non-profit North Carolina Immigration Rights Project to help immigrants in the Durham, North Carolina area. He served as an associate of Polanco Law PC in Raleigh, North Carolina.\n\nHe was part of a group of civil rights activists, including Rose Hamid, who protested Donald Trump campaign rallies in 2016 to protest Trump's treatment of Muslims. He designed the \"Go Yellow Against Hate\" star badges to accompany the protests. in 2016 he also provided free legal services to Syrian refugees.\n\nIn 2017 following the inauguration of President Trump, he moved from Hillsborough, North Carolina to Lumpkin, Georgia. Lumpkin has a detention center near the Alabama border and Rosenbluth decided to help refugees being detained there because there were no other lawyers in town, and the closest other lawyers were 140 miles away in Atlanta. According to a 2015 study, only about 6% of detainees had a lawyer to represent them. Rosenbluth unsuccessfully tried to lure other lawyers to town by offering a spare bedroom in his two bedroom house.\n"}
{"id": "13167619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13167619", "title": "Notre charge apostolique", "text": "Notre charge apostolique\n\nNotre charge apostolique (our Apostolic Mandate) was a papal encyclical promulgated by Pope Pius X on August 15, 1910. \n\nFirst Sentence : \"Notre charge apostolique nous fait un devoir de veiller à la pureté de la foi et à l’intégrité de la discipline catholique, de préserver les fidèles des dangers de l’erreur et du mal, surtout quand l’erreur et le mal leur sont présentés dans un langage entraînant qui, voilant le vague des idées et l’équivoque des expressions sous l’ardeur du sentiment et la sonorité des mots, peut enflammer les cœurs pour des causes séduisantes mais funestes.\"\n\nThe Pope took issue with what he viewed as the socialist leanings of the Catholic 'Le Sillon' movement of Marc Sangnier. \nHe said that Sillonists wanted to completely level social differences and to create a \"One World Church\" by joining \"unbelievers\". The Pope emphasized that a Catholic view of social justice meant considering the needs of both the powerful and poor. The Sillonists, he said, did not accept that authority comes from God down to the authorized leaders and from there to the people.\n"}
{"id": "58785761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58785761", "title": "Official Secrets Act 1951", "text": "Official Secrets Act 1951\n\nThe Official Secrets Act 1951 (long title: \"An Act to make better provision in respect of official secrets\") was a statute of the New Zealand Parliament. It was based on the UK Official Secrets Act 1911, and provided for criminal penalties for espionage and unauthorised releases of government information. \n\nThe only prosecution under the espionage provisions of the Act was that of Bill Sutch, who was unsuccessfully prosecuted in 1974-5 following a series of clandestine meetings with KGB agent Dimitri Rasgovorov, an official of the Soviet Union's embassy in Wellington. At the trial the Security Intelligence Service was unable to provide details of what information had supposedly been passed, and Sutch was subsequently acquitted by the jury.\n\nThe Act was repealed in 1983 by the Official Information Act 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "2080053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080053", "title": "Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries", "text": "Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries\n\nThe Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC) is a multi-governmental organization headquartered in Kuwait which coordinates energy policies among oil-producing Arab nations. OAPEC's primary objective is safeguarding the cooperation of numerous members in various aspects of economic activity within the oil industry as well as maintaining strong relations among themselves; to provide legitimate means to preserve the members' individual and collective efforts within the industry; unite on-going efforts for the procurement of oil; provide access to consumer markets on fair and reasonable terms; and provide conditions, adequate capital, and experience of investors in the oil industry.\n\nOAPEC was originally intended to be a conservative Arab political organization which, by restricting membership to countries whose main export was oil, would exclude governments seen as radical — such as those of Egypt and Algeria. This organizational exclusivity was bolstered by an additional rule in the organization's charter requiring the three founders' approval of all new members. The original aim was to control the economic weapon of potential oil embargo and prevent its use caused by popular emotion. Iraq initially declined to join, preferring to work under the umbrella of the Arab League, considering OAPEC too conservative. Equally the three founders considered Iraq too radical to be desirable as a member. However, by early 1972, the criterion for admission had changed to oil being a significant source of revenue (rather than the principal source) of a prospective member nation; and Algeria, Iraq, Syria and Egypt had been admitted. Consequently, OAPEC became a much more activist organization, contrary to the original intention.\n\nIn 1979, Egypt was expelled from OAPEC for signing the Camp David Accords, although it was readmitted a decade later. \n\nIn 1982, the Arab League's Arab Petroleum Congress (founded in 1959) merged into OAPEC's Arab Energy Conference (founded in 1979), which has continued to meet periodically through at least 2014.\n\nOAPEC is regarded as a regional, specialized international organization focusing on organizing cooperation in oil development, collective projects, and regional integration.\n\n The Judicial Tribunal mitigates disputes between member states; interpretations of the OAPEC Agreement; disputes with a petroleum company operating in its member states' territory, and anything else that falls into OAPEC's jurisdiction or that the Council of Ministers submits to the tribunal. The Judicial Tribunal must unevenly consist of at least seven and no more than eleven judges from Arab countries. The tribunal's judgments are final and binding, and will be enforceable within the territories of residing members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166317", "title": "Ottoman military reforms", "text": "Ottoman military reforms\n\nOttoman military reforms began in the late 18th century.\n\nWhen Selim III came to the throne in 1789, an ambitious effort of military reform was launched, geared towards securing the Ottoman Empire. The sultan and those who surrounded him were conservative and desired to preserve the status quo. No one in power in the Empire had any interest in social transformation.\n\nWestern military advisors were imported as advisors but their abilities to enact change were limited. A parade of French officers were brought in, and none of them could do a great deal. One example of an advisor who achieved limited success was the François Baron de Tott, a French officer. He did succeed in having a new foundry built to make artillery. As well he directed the construction of a new naval base. Unfortunately it was almost impossible for him to divert soldiers from the regular army into the new units. The new ships and guns that made it into service were too few to have much of an influence on the Ottoman army and de Tott returned home.\n\nWhen they had requested French help, a young artillery officer by the name of Napoleon Bonaparte was to be sent to Constantinople in 1795 to help organize Ottoman artillery. He did not go, for just days before he was to embark for the Near East he proved himself useful to the Directory by putting down a Parisian mob in the \"whiff of grapeshot\" and was kept in France.\n\nThe most important change was the creation of an elite new infantry unit; the \"Nizam-i Djedid\" was set up with western uniforms, weapons, and training. This group would offend the Janissaries. Once elite forces, the Janissaries had become a conservative elite using their military power to advance themselves commercially and politically. In 1806 the Janissaries, with support of the \"ulema\" and the provincial governors, revolted against the Sultan and his new force and replaced him with Mustafa IV.\n\nIn 1808 Selim III was replaced by Mahmud II with martial law of Alemdar Mustafa Pasha who restarted the reform efforts. His first task was to ally with the Janissaries in order to break the power of the provincial governors. He then turned on the Janissaries, massacring them in their barracks in Istanbul and the provincial capitals in 1826, which is known as the Auspicious Incident. The Sultan now set himself to replace the Janissaries by other regular troops. The Russo-Turkish War of 1828–1829 did not give him time to organize a new army, and the Sultan was forced to fight with these young and undisciplined recruits against the veterans of the Tsar. The war was brought to a close by the disastrous Treaty of Adrianople. While the reforms in question were mainly implemented to improve the military, the most notable development that arose out of these efforts was a series of schools teaching everything from math to medicine to train new officers.\n\nSultan Abdulmejid I enjoyed several years of peace, which enabled him to form a powerful and well disciplined army that was established at the beginning of the year 1842.\n\nThe chain-of-command in the general staff of each army was composed of a commander-in-chief, two lieutenant-generals, three brigadiers of infantry, one of whom commands the reserve, two brigadiers of cavalry, and one brigadier of artillery. In each corps there were three regiments of infantry, two of cavalry, and one of artillery, with thirty-three guns. The total strength of these twelve regiments of active forces was 30,000 men, but it was diminished in time of peace by furlough to an effective strength of about 25,000 men in three of the six armies, as well as 15,000 troops in the other three, a consequence of the recruiting system being as yet incomplete in its application all over the Ottoman Empire. The whole establishment of this branch amounts, therefore, to 180,000 men, belonging to the active service, but its effective strength is at present 123,000.\n\nThe reserve of four of the six armies consisted of eleven regiments, six of which were infantry, four of cavalry, and one of artillery. The total combined force equalled 12,000 troops, while the other two armies have not met their reserve of soldiers who have served five years. In time of war, however, the reserve would form two corps of 25,000 men in each army; giving a total of 300,000. The two services, therefore, as they stood, formed an effective force of 135,000 men; and when their full strength shall have been filled up it will amount to 480,000.\n\nBesides these six armies there were four detached corps. These corps raise the effective strength of the standing army to 365,000 men.\n\nDeployment at the time consisted of the following:\n\n\nAside from deployed troops, the Ottoman military also had the following units:\n\n\nBesides augmentation of 32,000 men by the submission of Bosnia and Northern Albania to the new system; and a further increase of 40,000 men, which Serbia had arranged to furnish, 18,000 men served in Egypt, which would act to reinforce the reserve of the fifth army.\n\nThe marines, sailors, and workmen, enrolled in brigades that amounted to 34,000 total men. The grand total of armed men at the disposal of Ottoman Empire at the time could be calculated at no less than 664,000 men. In addition, the Ottomans could call-up occasional levies, which were more easily and efficiently utilized in the Ottoman Empire than in any other country at the time. After years of peace and stability the modernized army was put to test in the Crimean War.\n\nAbdul Hamid II attached utmost importance to the reorganization of the military. As early as 1880 he sought, and two years later secured, German assistance, which culminated in the appointment of Lt. Col. Kohlcr and, finally, Colmar Von der Goltz as military advisors.\n\nThe curriculum of Harbiye (War College) was specialized further to train staff officers in the European style. The school’s name was changed to Mekteb-i Fununu Harb (School of War Science). It was during his reign that the officers’ training was upgraded and regularized, starting with the mid-level military rt2diye and idadi schools and culminating in the Mekteb-i Harbiye (War College) or, for the most Capable, in the Erkan-i Harbiye (Chiefs of Staff). The last, as a concept and an organization, was largely the work of von der Goltz.\n\nHowever, although the consensus that Abdulhamid favoured the modernization of the Ottoman army and the professionalization of the officer was fairly general, it seems that he neglected the military during the last fifteen years of his reign, and he also cut down the military budget. The problem with the army (numbering Ca. 700,000 at the end of the century), besides the officers’ constant opposition to field exercises, was the growing number of underpaid officers, and the lack of a proper retirement system. The annual army expenditures were some 7,756,000 liras out of a total national budget of 18,927,000 liras for 1897; when the Debt Administration claimed 6,483.000 liras, little was left for investment in economic development.\n\n"}
{"id": "1472619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1472619", "title": "Output-based aid", "text": "Output-based aid\n\nOutput-based aid (OBA) refers to development aid strategies that link the delivery of public services in developing countries to targeted performance-related subsidies. OBA subsidies are offered in transport construction, education, water and sanitation systems, and healthcare among other sectors where positive externalities exceed cost recovery exclusively from private markets.\n\nOBA targets individuals who lack the financial means to pay for basic services. It is specifically targeted for individuals in developing countries. The service provider will receive subsidies to replace costs associated with providing the service to people, such as user fees. Individual agents will verify that the service is being delivered and based on the performance of the service-provider, a subsidy will be granted. That is how it is \"performance-based\".\n\nOBA generally works through a private firm, or another third party, acting as the service provider. The service provider is responsible for the initial financing of the project and, only after results have been verified, will the firm receive subsidies from a donor. In such schemes, it is the provider who bears the risk of loss, rather than the aid donor, and output-based schemes allow for the tracking of results because of the way they function. Integration of the private sector into aid schemes is common with OBA, since they often provide the initial financing. The World Bank sees OBA as a way to improve aid effectiveness. This differs from traditional aid schemes that will usually focus on the inputs to service providers rather than the outputs. The donor is usually the World Bank, a government or an international organization or philanthropist that is part of the OBA scheme. Subsidies from a donor will generally serve to complement or reduce user fees. The subsidy is paid only after the particular service has been delivered to a community. The subsidies are targeted to poorer individuals, since OBA initiatives are carried out in regions with significant amounts of poverty.\n\nIn healthcare, vouchers are granted to patients who require medical attention and cannot afford or access it. These vouchers can be taken to hospitals or clinics, whether private or public, and they will be provided with the medical attention they require. The clinic or healthcare professional that provided the medical service will be subsidized for the delivery of the service by a donor.\n\nIn healthcare, OBA is often implemented by contracting providers in either the public or private sector, sometimes both, and issuing vouchers to people considered at higher risk of disease or in greater need of the health services. Two of the earliest examples of competitive vouchers and fee-for-service contracts in healthcare were implemented in South Korea and Taiwan in the 1960s. In Nicaragua, the Instituto CentroAmericano de la Salud (Central American Health Institute) began voucher programs for reproductive and sexual health services in 1995. New programs for facility-based maternal deliveries in Kenya and Uganda began in 2006 and 2009 respectively.\n\nIn Mongolia projects to improve rural telecommunications have been undertaken. Existing communication operators bid for subsidy contracts to expand their networks and services to rural areas with poor access to telecommunications. The bidding operators were also aware of the risk associated with the subsidies, since they would only receive funding if certain outcomes had been met. These OBA schemes are meant to provide universal Internet access to the internet.\n\nOBAs have had successes and failures based on the specific project. Many challenges have come to exist as a result of the diverse projects that have been carried out.\n\nThe first instance of voucher-based OBA was in South Korea and Taiwan in the 1960s. According to Malcolm Potts, these family-planning initiatives were very successful. There were few such instances where OBA was used for development purposes up until the new millennium. Voucher-based healthcare schemes were piloted in Latin America, Asia and Africa in the 1990s and early 2000s.\n\nIn 2002, the World Bank launched its Private Sector Development Strategy (PSD), of which OBA was a key component. The World Bank has been the most active participant in OBA and in 2003, along with the UK's Department for International Development (DFID), they launched the Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid (GPOBA), a \"Partnership of donors and international organizations working together to support OBA approaches to improving service delivery for the poor\".\n\nThe partnership has worked with various international partners to pursue output-based initiatives in fields of healthcare, water, energy, transport, telecommunications and education. As of June 2009, GPOBA has identified 128 OBA projects around the world, with a value of $3.3 billion.\n\nGerman development bank KfW financed multi-district pilot projects in East Africa (Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda) and South Asia (Bangladesh and Cambodia) beginning in 2006.\n\nAccording to the GPOBA, OBA improves upon other forms of aid in a number of ways. The first is by creating transparency since the provider and receiver of any subsidy will be known to each other and the public. Performance risk is shifted to the providers in OBA schemes since they are accountable for what they deliver. OBA schemes are said to provide incentives for innovation in projects as well as a means for mobilizing expertise and finance from the private sector. Finally, OBA provides internal tracking of results.\n\nMalcolm Potts of Berkeley University believes OBA schemes to be more effective than traditional aid projects because they invest in extant infrastructure. OBA schemes can provide poor consumers with the leverage to determine the quality of the service they are provided with. For example, in a health-care project, individuals receiving OBA will gain choice in where they want to go for their health care needs, essentially a choice between options in the public and private sector. With OBA, existing service providers are granted subsidies based on the number of people who use their services. In this way an individual can choose between multiple service providers, whether public, private or non-governmental, and only after the service has been provided do they receive the subsidy.\n\nCompared to other aid schemes where projects were pre-funded by a donor, OBA uses explicit funding; if service providers fail to deliver, they and their investors, rather than taxpayers, who bear the brunt of financial loss.\n\nFor many common criticisms of development aid, see criticism of aid.\n\nOBA schemes have been criticized for their high administrative costs which exist for a number of reasons. The printing and distribution of vouchers can be costly. Also, there is significant cost in effectively monitoring outcomes of OBA schemes, and maintaining a process of transparency in OBA. Voucher theft or counterfeiting could be a serious issue for OBA projects. The sale on vouchers on the black market could easily disrupt the knowledge of where vouchers are distributed.\n\nPerformance-based conditionality has come under criticism for producing intermediate indicators which often distort the achievements of particular projects. These indicators, which only convey the success of certain actors and which are susceptible to manipulation, do not provide accurate indication of long-term changes of benefit to a region. Progress should be measured in more long-term objectives which encompass many sectors that contribute to the well-being of a population. For example, reducing child mortality requires many areas—health care, family planning and clean water—to be targeted, and even though intermediate indicators of an OBA scheme in one sector may appear positive, this does not necessarily identify progress in reducing child mortality.\n\nThe Private Sector Development Strategy which OBA is included in has come under heavy criticism for many of the same reasons the World Bank has been criticized for its work in the past as well as many new criticisms of the strategy itself. In response, it has been criticized for ignoring the many dimensions of poverty and not defining well how the \"poor\" would benefit from market interventions. The idea that private sector development and OBA will \"shift risk\" to private-sector service providers has been criticized since many private groups are risk averse when it comes to making a profit and thus would be hesitant in taking on projects lacking a guaranteed payoff.\n\nProfessor Robert Wade, of the London School of Economics, said in an article that the PSD strategy is:\n\"A continuation of previous Bank policies to reduce the state to a coordination and regulation role, leaving private companies to organise production and service delivery.\"\n\nMuch aid is tied to conditionality and, even though OBA rewards performance, it will mainly reward performance in the private sector. The PSD strategy looks to the private sector to develop infrastructure that will benefit the poor. An issue that many multinational corporations will receive some of the funding for OBAs has not been dealt with very well by the World Bank. Not only does this allow them to further their economic control of infrastructure in poorer nations, they are also able to avoid many of the risks of OBA through various agreements and by passing on some of the costs to the state and the taxpayers. For example, the lease for a Guinea water infrastructure OBA project:\nallowed the MNC to protect itself against cost increases by passing them on, with the government regulator unable to force the MNC to disclose enough information to judge the reasonableness of the requests.\"\nPrivatizing basic services is a contentious issue because contracting out service provision to private firms may be detrimental to universal service provision. Private firms look to make a profit, and if this is their primary motive then universal access becomes less of a priority. Accountability to state services may deteriorate. Many critics have noted that in developed countries, the state is responsible for basic services that the World Bank wants private firms to provide in developing countries. UNICEF, in a study entitled \"Basic Services for All: Public Spending and the Social Dimensions of Poverty\", laid out moral, consensual, instrumental and historical grounds, arguing that state provision of basic services is mandatory regardless of circumstance.\n\nOutput-based approaches generally will rely on a well-established market, something that is not present in many developing countries. The regulatory and institutional mechanisms of the market are almost non-existent in many nations where OBA is used, and this does not allow domestic firms to compete on level ground with foreign firms. Sarah Anderson of the Institute for Policy Studies said that many grassroots and community organizations will not have the means to provide initial financing for service projects. They will be unable to sustain themselves until they get a subsidy for their performance. Rather, global firms that are already well established will more likely get OBA contracts, and in the process many local organization will no longer be part of the scheme.\n\nThe article \"The Growing Dangers of Service Apartheid\" written by the Globalization Challenge Initiative identified the following as challenges for OBA as it is described in the PSD strategy:\n\n"}
{"id": "47809205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47809205", "title": "Patrick O'Shenanigan Memorial Scholarship Endowment Fund", "text": "Patrick O'Shenanigan Memorial Scholarship Endowment Fund\n\nThe Patrick O'Shenanigan Memorial Scholarship Endowment Fund is a need-based scholarship founded on October 31, 2014, to benefit students at The University of Tulsa. The renewable scholarship is awarded to a student selected by the university's financial aid office.\n\nThe 11 founding members compose the Board of Trustees: \n\nDonors to the endowment are members of the Patrick O'Shenanigan Society:\n\nThe first recipient to be announced in the spring of 2016 will receive a $370 scholarship.\n\nThe scholarship was recognized by TU President Steadman Upham on April 1, 2015, at a donor reception at the Roxana Rózsa and Robert Eugene Lorton Performance Center. The reception was attended by founding member Tyler Pansa.\n\nThe scholarship was featured in TU's College of Engineering and Natural Science's \"Vision\" magazine in the Summer of 2015. The back cover pictured donor Tyler Pansa during his notorious Glenn Dobbs prank on April 1, 2013. \"Pansa borrowed a football helmet, painted his entire body gold and stood on the platform for over an hour.”\n\nThe donors are recognized with a stone on the Chapman Legacy Wall at McFarlin Library. The engraving is located beside Steadman and Peggy Upham's stone and reads, \"Friends of Patrick O'Shenanigan.\" The stone was engraved in the summer of 2015 and will officially be dedicated at Homecoming in October 2015.\n"}
{"id": "167411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167411", "title": "Pax Britannica", "text": "Pax Britannica\n\nPax Britannica (Latin for \"British Peace\", modelled after \"Pax Romana\") was the period of relative peace between the Great Powers during which the British Empire became the global hegemonic power and adopted the role of a global police force.\n\nBetween 1815 and 1914, a period referred to as Britain's \"imperial century\", around of territory and roughly 400 million people were added to the British Empire. Victory over Napoleonic France left the British without any serious international rival, other than perhaps Russia in central Asia. When Russia tried expanding its influence in the Balkans, the British and French defeated them in the Crimean War (1854–1856), thereby protecting the feeble Ottoman Empire.\n\nBritain's Royal Navy controlled most of the key maritime trade routes and enjoyed unchallenged sea power. Alongside the formal control exerted over its own colonies, Britain's dominant position in world trade meant that it effectively controlled access to many regions, such as Asia and Latin America. British merchants, shippers and bankers had such an overwhelming advantage over everyone else that in addition to its colonies it had an \"informal empire\".\n\nAfter losing the American colonies in the American Revolution, Britain turned towards Asia, the Pacific and later Africa with subsequent exploration leading to the rise of the Second British Empire (1783–1815). The Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain in the late 1700s and new ideas emerged about free markets, such as Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776). Free trade became a central principle that Britain practiced by the 1840s. It played a key role in Britain's economic growth and .\n\nFrom the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 until World War I in 1914, the United Kingdom played the role of global hegemon (most powerful actor). Imposition of a \"British Peace\" on key maritime trade routes began in 1815 with the annexation of British Ceylon (now Sri Lanka). Under the British Residency of the Persian Gulf, local Arab rulers agreed to a number of treaties that formalised Britain’s protection of the region. Britain imposed an anti-piracy treaty, known as the General Maritime Treaty of 1820, on all Arab rulers in the region. By signing the Perpetual Maritime Truce of 1853, Arab rulers gave up their right to wage war at sea in return for British protection against external threats. The global superiority of British military and commerce was aided by a divided and relatively weak continental Europe, and the presence of the Royal Navy on all of the world's oceans and seas. Even outside its formal empire, Britain controlled trade with many countries such as China, Siam, and Argentina. Following the Congress of Vienna the British Empire's economic strength continued to develop through naval dominance and diplomatic efforts to maintain a balance of power in continental Europe.\n\nIn this era, the Royal Navy provided services around the world that benefited other nations, such as the suppression of piracy and blocking the slave trade. The Slave Trade Act 1807 had banned the trade across the British Empire, after which the Royal Navy established the West Africa Squadron and the government negotiated international treaties under which they could enforce the ban. Sea power, however, did not project on land. Land wars fought between the major powers include the Crimean War, the Franco-Austrian War, the Austro-Prussian War and the Franco-Prussian War, as well as numerous conflicts between lesser powers. The Royal Navy prosecuted the First Opium War (18391842) and Second Opium War (18561860) against Imperial China. The Royal Navy was superior to any other two navies in the world, combined. Between 1815 and the passage of the German naval laws of 1890 and 1898, only France was a potential naval threat.\n\nBritain traded goods and capital extensively with countries around the world, adopting a free trade policy after 1840. The growth of British imperial strength was further underpinned by the steamship and the telegraph, new technologies invented in the second half of the 19th century, allowing it to control and defend the empire. By 1902, the British Empire was linked together by a network of telegraph cables, the so-called All Red Line.\n\nThe \"Pax Britannica\" was weakened by the breakdown of the continental order which had been established by the Congress of Vienna. Relations between the Great Powers of Europe were strained to breaking point by issues such as the decline of the Ottoman Empire, which led to the Crimean War, and later the emergence of new nation states in the form of Italy and Germany after the Franco-Prussian War. Both of these wars involved Europe's largest states and armies. The industrialisation of Germany, the Empire of Japan, and the United States contributed to the relative decline of British industrial supremacy in the late 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "1707124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1707124", "title": "Rural Business-Cooperative Service", "text": "Rural Business-Cooperative Service\n\nThe Rural Business-Cooperative Service (abbreviated as \"RBS\") is one of three agencies within USDA Rural Development (along with the Rural Housing Service and Rural Utilities Service) responsible for administering various economic development programs to rural communities in the United States and its territories. Because these three agencies are closely aligned, they are commonly referred to as the USDA Rural Development, Business & Cooperative Programs.\n\nThe mission of the RBS is to enhance the quality of life for rural Americans by providing leadership in building competitive businesses including sustainable cooperatives that can prosper in the global marketplace.\n\nThe organization meets these goals by:\n\nIn addition to supporting rural business, economic, and cooperative development, the Agency has become increasingly involved in renewable energy and value-added agriculture since the enactment of the 2002 Farm Bill.\n\nThe Rural Business-Cooperative Service is headed by an Administrator who reports directly to the Assistant to the Secretary for Rural Development, who in turn reports to the Secretary of Agriculture.\n\nBusiness & Cooperative Programs staff are headquartered in Washington, D.C., but the Agency has a presence in every state and U.S. territory. Typically there is a Business & Cooperative Program section associated with each USDA Rural Development State Office. These State Offices and their subordinate Area Office staff are responsible for most program delivery.\n\n\nThe RBS also publishes the bi-monthly Rural Cooperatives magazine. Nearly all of the Agency's programs are funded annually through Congressional appropriation as part of the U.S. Federal Government budget process.\n\n"}
{"id": "408236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408236", "title": "Samajwadi Party", "text": "Samajwadi Party\n\nSamajwadi Party ( SP ; translation: \"Socialist Party\", founded 4 October 1992 ) is a political party in India headquartered in New Delhi and the largest recognised state party of the country. Based in Uttar Pradesh, a northern state in India, it describes itself as a democratic socialist party.\n\nThe Samajwadi Party was one of several parties that emerged when the Janata Dal (People's League) fragmented into several regional parties. The Samajwadi Party is led by former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Akhilesh Yadav after he was chosen the President by the National Convention held on 1 January 2017.\n\nThe Samajwadi Party is primarily based in Uttar Pradesh State. It has contested Lok Sabha and State Assembly elections around the country, though its successes have been mainly in Uttar Pradesh.In the 2012 legislative assembly elections of Uttar Pradesh, SP registered a landslide victory with a clear majority in the House, thus enabling it to form the government in the state. This was expected to be the fifth term of Mulayam Singh Yadav as Chief Minister of state, but he surprised everyone by selecting his son, Akhilesh Yadav, to be the new chief minister (the youngest ever). It became official on 15 March. It was also the first time that SP was head of the UP government for a full term of 5 years.\n\nThe Samajawadi Party provided outside support to the United Progressive Alliance government up to the sixteenth general election, After the sixteenth general election its support became unnecessary when the UPA became the largest alliance. It contested the 2009 general election in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Lok Janshakti Party of Bihar.\n\nIn the last general election, the Samajwadi Party was defeated by the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. It is currently the thirteenth largest party in parliament. In the general elections of 2014, it won only 5 seats, while the Indian National Congress gained 44 seats and the Bharatiya Janata Party obtained a clear mandate with 282 seats.\n\nIn West Bengal, the West Bengal Socialist Party of Kiranmoy Nanda merged with the SP. The SP has two MLAs in Bihar and one MLA each in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and West Bengal.\n\nIn April 2014, the Save Indian Family Foundation encouraged voters to support the Samajwadi Party or vote None of the above because the Samajwadi Party had stated that it opposed the alleged misuse of gender bias laws.\n\nThe Samajwadi Party has called homosexuality \"unethical and immoral.\"\n\nThe clashes between the Hindu and Muslim communities in Muzaffarnagar district, Uttar Pradesh, India in August - September 2013, resulted in at least 9 deaths and injured 34 after which an indefinite curfew was imposed. By 17 September, the curfew was lifted from all riot affected areas and the army was also withdrawn. Several people associated with Bharatiya Janta Party including Sangeet Som were accused.\n\nThe riot has been described as \"the worst violence in Uttar Pradesh in recent history\"; the army's deployment was its first in the state for 20 years. The Supreme court blamed the ruling government of not handling the situation well. In reaction to this, Akhilesh Yadav warned of strict action against those found guilty. He also blamed a political conspiracy behind these riots. He also announced jobs to the kins of the people who were killed during the riots\n\nIn 2014, there was a proposed merger of Samajwadi Party with some other Janata Parivar parties uniting with Lalu Prasad Yadav and Nitish Kumar.\n\nSince Akhilesh Yadav became Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, the Yadav family has been divided into two feuding groups. One of the groups is led by him with the support of his father's cousin, Ram Gopal Yadav. The rival group is led by Shivpal Singh Yadav and a friend, Amar Singh. Akhilesh Yadav has fired his uncle twice from his cabinet as it was seen by many as a direct challenge to his father Mulayam Singh Yadav, who has steadily supported his younger brother Shivpal over him.\n\nBattle in the family fired up when Akhilesh Yadav released a parallel list of 235 candidates for 2017 Uttar Pradesh election. Mulayam Singh Yadav and Shivpal Singh Yadav already has released list of 325 candidates few days before.\n\nOn 30 December 2016, Mulayam Singh Yadav expelled his son Akhilesh Yadav and Ram Gopal Yadav from the party for six years on the grounds of indiscipline but re-inducted within 24 hours after a meet of 200 of the party’s 229 MLAs at Akhilesh residence.\n\nIn a National Convention held on 1 January 2017 called by Ram Gopal Yadav, Akhilesh Yadav was declared the National President of Samajwadi Party. Naresh Chandra Uttam was named as Uttar Pradesh state president of the party.\n\nIn the mean time Mulayam Singh Yadav expelled Ram Gopal Yadav for six years for the third time in six months. Expulsion also included vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda and state general secretary Naresh Agarwal were also expelled for attending the convention.\n\nDue to the convention, the party is apparently divided and is headed by two competing presidents. Akhilesh Yadav and his father both are representing themselves as party presidents. However the constitution of the party categorically states that any convention can only be called by its president and if an other member wants a convention to be called, he has to collect the signatures of 40% members and submit it to national president. If the president then fails to call the convention that individual member may call for the convention. In this case however, Akhilesh Faction has acted against the party constitution and technically Mulayam Singh Yadav is still the party president.\n\nAfter the national convention was declared illegal by Mulayam Singh Yadav and further truce talks failed Mulayam Singh along with Amar Singh and Jaya Prada decided to go to the Election Commission to sort out the matter.\n\nThe Election Commission gave time until 9 January to submit the related documents to both sides to submit required documents that show support of the party members. The Akhilesh camp submitted affidavits showing notable support for the Chief Minister on 7 January.\n\nThe Election Commission then fixed 3 January for hearing the Samajwadi Party (SP) factions led by Mulayam Singh Yadav and his son Akhilesh Yadav to settle the dispute over control of the party and its election symbol, ‘cycle’.\nThe Election Commission heard both factions for about 4 hours and reserved its order on who gets ownership to the party’s cycle symbol. The Akhilesh faction was represented by senior lawyers Rajeev Dhavan and Kapil Sibal and Mulayam Singh faction was represented by senior advocate and former Solicitor General Mohan Parasaran. Parasaran argued that the Election Commission lacked jurisdiction to allocate the symbol to one of the factions as there was no split in the party such as SP (Mulayam) and SP (Akhilesh) and there was no splinter group. He also said the meeting called by Ramgopal Yadav on 1 January in which Akhilesh was elected Samajwadi Party president, was not in accordance with the party’s constitution and therefore, was illegal and unauthorised.\n\nOn 16 January, the election commission announced its decision and Akhilesh Yadav was declared the rightful owner of his Samajwadi Party's symbol, the cycle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48560181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48560181", "title": "Seth Bringman", "text": "Seth Bringman\n\nSeth Bringman (born July 17, 1981) is a former political campaign strategist for the Democratic Party in the United States.\n\nBringman worked as a researcher on then-Senator Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign. He later served as communications director of the Ohio Democratic Party from 2009 to 2012.\n\nIn 2013, Bringman became the first employee of Ready for Hillary, a SuperPAC focusing on grassroots organizing to support Clinton's potential 2016 presidential campaign. As communications director, he served as spokesperson for the PAC and its supporters. He was also the driver of the group's \"Hillary Bus.\" Bringman is the author of the book, \"Ready for Hillary: The Official, Inside Story of the Campaign before the Campaign.\"\n\nThe New York Times reported that Bringman and other officials of Ready for Hillary super PAC were not offered initial posts on Clinton's official campaign. Bringman declined to comment for the story. When Nina Turner, also from Ohio, changed her support from Hillary Clinton to Bernie Sanders during the 2016 Democratic primary, Bringman criticized her decision, noting that she had left her post at the Ohio Democratic Party.\n\nIn May 2016, Bringman expressed optimism in an interview that the Democratic Party would unite behind Clinton and that supporters of Bernie Sanders would vote for her in the general election. In the 2020 cycle, he has spoken positively about the prospect of a 2020 presidential run by U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), saying that Warren would have widespread support.\n\nSeth is currently unemployed \n\nBringman is a native of Woodville, Ohio. \n\nHe graduated from Woodmore High School in Elmore, Ohio, where he ran cross country. He attended Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, where he was a member of the Miami University Marching Band and a brother of Kappa Kappa Psi. He went on to earn a master's degree in political management from George Washington University.\n\nBringman has run several marathon races. He is openly gay. Following the 2016 Pulse Nightclub shooting, Bringman launched a campaign urging The Ohio State University to put its mascot, Brutus Buckeye, back in the Columbus Pride Parade. The university had revoked the mascot's planned participation in the parade due to security concerns, but later it reversed its decision. \n"}
{"id": "45360866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45360866", "title": "Sociotechnology", "text": "Sociotechnology\n\nSociotechnology (short for \"social technology\") is the study of processes on the intersection of society and technology. Vojinović and Abbott define it as \"the study of processes in which the social and the technical are indivisibly combined\".\nSociotechnology is an important part of socio-technical design, which is defined as \"designing things that participate in complex systems that have both social and technical aspects\".\n\nThe term has been attributed to Mario Bunge. He defines it as a grouping of social engineering and management science. He sees it thus as a form of technology, distinguished from other branches of it such as engineering, biotechnology, information technology and general technology. Its goal is to help engineer sociosystems and evaluate their performance, while making use of social science research. In short, sociotechnology can be seen as the creation, modification and maintenance of social systems.\n\nWriting on sociotechnical change, Bijker wrote: \"Society is not determined by technology, nor is technology determined by society. Both emerge as two sides of the sociotechnical coin.\"\n\nTechnology is the sum of ways in which social groups construct the material objects of their civilizations. The things made are socially constructed just as much as technically constructed. The merging of these two things, construction and insight, is sociotechnology. \"For example, we typically build a bridge when there’s some expectation that people need to get from Point A to Point B, and there’s something they need to bypass along the way (e.g. a river, a canyon, another road). Failure to consider the social factors as well as the technical factors could lead to a \"bridge to nowhere\" – and we all know at least one person who’s had a problem with those\".\n\nBusiness use \"richness and reach\". The richness and reach strategy has evolved with technology. Richness is the ability to understand the information being passed for example calling someone is less rich than face to face contact. Reach is the number of people who exchange the information. In the past it was easier to complete richness and reach, but now with new technologies like video chatting, it is easier for business to do fulfill both richness and reach. Positive economics is the study of existing (or historical) means of exchange- a social science such as sociology, history, and political sciences. Normative economics is the social technology because it attempts to create different kinds of economic arrangements.\n\nAccelerating growth of technology is a major problem and cause of destabilization of a communicational world. Paul Virilio believes that the \"real\" is being mistaken by virtual and the virtual world destroys physical presence. Marshall McLuhan wrote about the extension of human senses and the nervous system into the world through electronic media. Essentially he believes that the mind, the self, and consciousness are made from already created technology, media, and language as opposed to create naturally like those who made technology, media, and language. The image of one’s self becomes aware of itself in a world of technology. Consciousness and desire become less individualistic and turns into more already constituted social forms. The response to how someone feels something, what it means, and how it feels (for example feeling \"attached\" to someone after losing your virginity to them) is already set up through media communication (show, music, movies, articles). People will anticipate that they will be attached because of what they already know about it, so when it happens they do feel attached because that is how they were programmed to feel. People have turned to technology to create their \"self\" and determine how they feel and act. The conscious mind does not move into a world-as-other mindset but into an already constituted world.\n\nLewis Mumford believed the world of relying on technology began with early human experiments in industrialization including coal mines because coal and iron built and powered industrialization. It has come to the point where communication is relied on technology. Conversation turned into talking through a machine (texting, phone calls, social media).\n\nThe difference between the past and present technology is the extent of social binding. The more social forces it binds together the more powerful the technology is. For example, the attack on the World Trade Center as opposed to the attack of Pearl Harbor. It took a year to see the film of the attack on the American battleships. Because of this, people were more unaware and it was less of a big deal than what 9-11 was. During the terrorist attack in 2001, everything was broadcast in the moment. People were seeing the destruction with their own eyes in the moment, causing more ridicule and passion for the situation.\n\nFurbie and Tamagotchi are electronic toys made for children that make noises and demand for care. These toys caused children to form a companionship with robots instead of human beings. Paro is a robotic baby seal that was created in Japan to perform therapeutic functions. Paro had positive psychological results for those in nursing homes. A woman constantly argued with her son and turned to the Paro for comfort and confided in the Paro instead of fixing things with her son. Society has turned to demanding more intimacy from sociable robots then from each other. People that use the robots for comfort feel like they are being comforted by someone even though they are actually alone. These robotic characters cause people to have a relationship with technology while avoiding the trouble of human interaction.\n\nScience and technology are big contributions to the economic development, but can also lead to negative side effects as it evolves. For example, people care more about materialistic things than the negative influences they have created in human morals and education. For example, it is more important for people to know words to songs than to remember things for their test. There are other problems due to the development of new technologies such as the conservation of the environment because there is a demand for more products which leads to more destruction of environment to build more to sell from. Many social problems have appeared in society and cannot seem to be solved by natural science and technology alone. It requires the need for social sciences as well. Social technology is the strategy used to help solve the wrong behaviors in the world that are caused by social problems like how to solve the issue of people being invested in materialistic goods more than morals, so that they economy can still continue to grow, and society can be a better place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42243718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42243718", "title": "The Marriage Vow", "text": "The Marriage Vow\n\nThe Marriage Vow or \"The Marriage Vow - A Declaration of Dependence Upon Marriage and Family\" is a political pledge created by Bob Vander Plaats, a former candidate for Iowa governor, and the Iowa-based conservative group; The Family Leader, a public advocacy organization affiliated with the Iowa Family Policy Center, that he heads. Signing the pledge, created in early July, was a requirement to receive any support from the organization. Signing the pledge entailed supporting a monogamous heterosexual definition of marriage, as well as backing a ban on pornography, abortion, and Sharia Law. Notable signees include Michele Bachmann and Rick Santorum, while the pledge drew notable criticism from libertarian candidate Gary Johnson.\n\nThe vow begins with a series of preambles, each designed to show the \"great crisis\" in the institution of marriage. Later, the first preamble, one that claimed that children of slaves were more likely to live in 2 parent households than children are today, was redacted due to the criticism it received. The following are the vows the candidates pledged to by signing.\n\nOne of the preambles to the pledge, drew massive amounts of criticism for claiming that children of slaves were more likely to live in a 2 parent household. \n\"Slavery had a disastrous impact on African-American families, yet sadly a child born into slavery in 1860 was more likely to be raised by his mother and father in a two-parent household than was an African-American baby born after the election of the USA's first African-American President.\" \nSeveral days later, Plaats sent out an email clarifying that \n\"Our critics are distorting the facts and misrepresenting The Marriage Vow. The preamble to the vow references relevant and sobering data which points to marriages and families being in crisis. The FAMiLY LEADER has never made the claim, nor ever will, that slavery was better for families.\" The preamble was later removed from the pledge.\n\nOn July 19, Gary Johnson published an article in the Huffington Post criticizing The Marriage Vow. He claimed that the pledge endorsed government intervention into the personal lives of citizens, while criticizing the discriminatory language of the pledge. He went on to state that Pledge's focus on social issues redirected attention from areas like the economy.\n\nHouse Speaker Pro-Tem Jeff Kaufmann said the pledge had \"ridiculous implications\", refused to sign, and told Plaats that his \"integrity is in question\" and \"political credibility is waning to the point of no impact.\" \n\nFormer Iowa State Senator Jeff Angelo said \"This pledge is an attempt to shut down dialogue between voters and the people vying to represent them.\".\n\nPresidential candidate Mitt Romney called the pledge \"undignified and inappropriate.\" Romney's campaign later clarified that he would not sign because preamble suggesting children of slaves were better off than today.\n\nThe 2 most notable signatures came from Rick Santorum and Michele Bachmann. Rick Santorum was the first presidential candidate to contact The Family Leader after the organization publicly announced the pledge. Michele Bachmann also contacted The Family Leader to sign the pledge, and became the first Candidate to send her signed document to the organization.\nAlthough Newt Gingrich did not sign the pledge, he wrote a lengthy letter in which he upheld many of the principles of the pledge including personal fidelity to his wife, respecting the marital bonds of others, enforcing the defense of marriage act, to support a federal marriage amendment, and to oppose any definition of marriage outside of \"one man and one woman.\" \nThe pledge was also signed by former Texas governor Rick Perry.\n"}
{"id": "4173700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4173700", "title": "Tithing", "text": "Tithing\n\nA tithing or tything was a historic English legal, administrative or territorial unit, originally ten hides (and hence, one tenth of a hundred). Tithings later came to be seen as subdivisions of a manor or civil parish. The tithing's leader or spokesman was known as a \"tithingman\".\n\nThe noun \"tithing\" is not to be confused with the verb \"tithing\", nor the act of \"tithing\", though they partly share the same origin. The noun breaks down as \"ten\" + \"thing\", which is to say, a thing (an assembly) of the households who live in an area that comprises ten hides. Comparable words are Danish \"herredthing\" for a hundred, and English \"husting\" for a single household.\n\nSound changes in the prehistory of English are responsible for the first part of the word looking so different from the word \"ten\". In the West Germanic dialects which became Old English, \"n\" had a tendency to elide when positioned immediately before a \"th\".\n\nThe term originated in the 10th century, when a tithing meant the households in an area comprising ten hides. The heads of each of those households were referred to as \"tithingmen\"; historically they were assumed to all be males, and older than 12 (an adult, in the context of the time). Each \"tithingman\" was individually responsible for the actions and behaviour of all the members of the tithing, by a system known as frankpledge.\n\nUnlike areas dominated by Wessex, Kent had been settled by Jutes rather than Saxons, and retained elements of its historical identity as a separate and wealthy kingdom into the middle ages. While Wessex and Mercia eventually grouped their hundreds into Shires, Kent grouped hundreds into \"lathes\". Sussex, which had also been a separate kingdom, similarly grouped its hundreds into \"rapes\". The different choice of terminology continued to the level of the tithing; in Kent, parts of Surrey, and Sussex, the equivalent term was a borgh, borow, or borough (not to be confused with \"borough\" in its more usual sense of a chartered or privileged town); their equivalent to the tithingman was therefore a \"borsholder\", \"borough-holder\" or \"headborough\".\n\nThe Norman Conquest introduced the feudal system, which quickly displaced the importance of the hundred as an administrative unit. With the focus on manorial courts for administration and minor justice, tithings came to be seen as subdivisions of a manor. The later break-down of the feudal system did not detract from this, as the introduction of Justices of the Peace lead to petty sessions displacing many of the administrative and judicial functions of the manorial courts. By the Reformation, civil parishes had replaced the manor as the most important local administrative concept, and tithings came to be seen as a parish subdivision.\n\nFrankpledge eventually evolved into both the Jury system and the petty constabulary, but tithings themselves had lost their practical significance, and fell into disuse. Despite this, active tithings continued to be found in some parts of rural England well into the 19th century, and tithings and hundreds have never been formally abolished.\n\n"}
{"id": "16217680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16217680", "title": "Vice President of Cuba", "text": "Vice President of Cuba\n\nVice Presidents of Cuba, officially called from 1976 Vice President of the Council of State, is the second highest political position obtainable in Council of State of Cuba. Currently there is a provision for several Vice Presidents, who are elected in the same manner as the President of Cuba. \n\nHistorically, Vice President of Cuba was elected in the same ticket with the President. The position has been in use 1902–1928, 1936, 1940–1958, and since 1976.\n\nVice-Presidents elected by the National Assembly on 19 April 2018:\n\n"}
{"id": "31150404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31150404", "title": "Water scarcity in Africa", "text": "Water scarcity in Africa\n\nWater scarcity or lack of safe drinking water is one of the world's leading problems affecting more than 1.1 billion people globally, meaning that one in every six people lacks access to safe drinking water. The Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation set up by the World Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) defines safe drinking water as \"water with microbial, chemical and physical characteristics that meets WHO guidelines or national standards on drinking water quality.\" Hydrologists generally assess water scarcity by looking at a population-to-water equation that treats 1,700 cubic meters per person as the national threshold for meeting water requirements for agricultural and industrial production, energy, and the environment. Availability below the threshold of 1,000 cubic meters represents a state of \"water scarcity\", while anything below 500 cubic meters represents a state of \"absolute scarcity\".\n\nAs of 2006, one third of all nations suffered from clean water scarcity, but Sub-Saharan Africa had the largest number of water-stressed countries of any other place on the planet and of an estimated 800 million people who live in Africa, 300 million live in a water stressed environment. According to findings presented at the 2012 Conference on \"Water Scarcity in Africa: Issues and Challenges\", it is estimated that by 2030, 75 million to 250 million people in Africa will be living in areas of high water stress, which will likely displace anywhere between 24 million and 700 million people as conditions become increasingly unlivable.\n\nThe most immediately apparent impact of water scarcity in Africa is on the continent's health. With a complete lack of water, humans can only live up to 3 to 5 days on average. This often forces those living in water deprived regions to turn to unsafe water resources, which, according to the World Health Organization, contributes to the spread of waterborne diseases including typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery and diarrhea, and to the spread of diseases such as malaria whose vectors rely on such water resources, and can lead to diseases such as trachoma, plague, and typhus. Additionally, water scarcity causes many people to store water within the household, which increases the risk of household water contamination and incidents of malaria and dengue fever spread by mosquitoes. These waterborne diseases are not usually found in developed countries because of sophisticated water treatment systems that filter and chlorinate water, but for those living with less developed or non-existent water infrastructure, natural, untreated water sources often contain tiny disease-carrying worms and bacteria. Although many of these waterborne sicknesses are treatable and preventable, they are nonetheless one of the leading causes of disease and death in the world. Globally, 2.2 million people die each year from diarrhea-related disease, and at any given time fifty percent of all hospital beds in the world are occupied by patients suffering from water-related diseases. Infants and children are especially susceptible to these diseases because of their young immune systems, which lends to elevated infant mortality rates in many regions of Africa. Water scarcity has a big impact on hygiene.\n\nWhen infected with these waterborne diseases, those living in African communities suffering from water scarcity cannot contribute to the community's productivity and development because of a simple lack of strength. Additionally, individual, community and governmental economic resources are sapped by the cost of medicine to treat waterborne diseases, which takes away from resources that might have potentially been allocated in support of food supply or school fees. Also, in term of governmental funding, the Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council (WSSCC) estimates that in Sub-Saharan Africa, treatment of diarrhea due to water contamination consumes 12% of the country's health budget. With better water conditions, the burden on healthcare would be less substantial, while a healthier workforce would stimulate economic growth and help alleviate the prevalence of poverty.\n\nThe Human Development Report reports that human use of water is mainly allocated to irrigation and agriculture. In developing areas, such as those within Europe, agriculture accounts for more than 80% of water consumption. This is due to the fact that it takes about 3,500 liters of water to produce enough food for the daily minimum of 3,000 calories, and food production for a typical family of four takes a daily amount of water equivalent to the amount of water in an Olympic-sized swimming pool. Because the majority of Africa remains dependent on an agricultural lifestyle and 80% to 90% of all families in rural Africa rely upon producing their own food, water scarcity translates to a loss of food security. At this point, with less than a third of the continent's potential using irrigation most of the rural African communities are not tapping into their irrigation potential, and according to the UN Economic Commission for Africa and New Partnership for Africa's Development, \"irrigation is key to achieving increased agricultural production that is important for economic development and for attaining food security\". The doubling of Africa's irrigated land is currently high on many political agendas, which can potentially be addressed through markets, commodity selection, ownership, land tenure, reliable water storage, and international agreements.\n\nBut for many regions, there is a lack of financial and human resources to support infrastructure and technology required for proper crop irrigation. Because of this, the impact of droughts, floods, and desertification is greater in terms of both African economic loss and human life loss due to crop failure and starvation. Additionally, lack of water causes many Africans to use wastewater for crop growth, causing a large number of people to consume foods that can contain chemicals or disease-causing organisms transferred by the wastewater. Thus, for the extremely high number of African areas suffering from water scarcity issues, investing in development means sustainably withdrawing from clean freshwater sources, ensuring food security by expanding irrigation areas, and effectively managing the effects of climate change.\n\nAfrican women and men's divergent social positions lead to differences in water responsibilities, rights, and access, and so African women are disproportionally burdened by the scarcity of clean drinking water. In most African societies, women are seen as the collectors, managers, and guardians of water, especially within the domestic sphere that includes household chores, cooking, washing, and child rearing. Because of these traditional gender labor roles, women are forced to spend around sixty percent of each day collecting water, which translates to approximately 200 million collective work hours by women globally per day and a decrease in the amount of time available for education. Water scarcity exacerbates this issue, as indicated by the correlation of decrease in access to water with a decrease in combined primary, secondary, and tertiary enrollment of women.\n\nFor African women, their daily role in clean water retrieval often means carrying the typical jerrycan that can weigh over 40 pounds when full for an average of six kilometers each day. This has health consequences such as permanent skeletal damage from carrying heavy loads of water over long distances each day, which translates to a physical strain that contributes to increased stress, increased time spent in health recovery, and decreased ability to not only physically attend educational facilities, but also mentally absorb education due to the effect of stress on decision-making and memory skills. Also, in terms of health, access to safe and clean drinking water leads to greater protection from water-borne illnesses which increases women's capabilities to attend school.\n\nThe detriment water scarcity has on educational attainment for women, in turn, affects the social and economic capital of women in terms of leadership, earnings, and working opportunities. As a result of this, many women are unable to hold professional employment. The lost number of potential school days and education hinders the next generation of African women from breaking out of the cycle of unequal opportunity for gainful employment, which serves to perpetuate the prevalence of unequal opportunity for African women and adverse effects associated with lacking income from gainful employment. Thus, improved access to water influences women's allocation of time, level of education, and as a result their potential for higher wages associated with recognized and gainful employment.\n\nIn addition, the issue of water scarcity in Africa prevents many young children, especially girls, from attending school and receiving an education. They are expected to not only aid their mothers in water retrieval but to also help with the demands of household chores that are made more time-intensive because of a lack of readily available water. Furthermore, a lack of clean water means the absence of sanitary facilities and latrines in schools, and so once puberty hits, this has a more serious impact on female children. In terms of lost educational opportunity, it is estimated that this would result in 272 million more school attendance days per year if adequate investment were made in drinking water and sanitation.\n\nFor parents, an increase in access to reliable water resources reduces vulnerability to shocks, which allows for increased livelihood security and for families to allocate a greater portion of their resources to care for their children. This means improved nutrition for children, a reduction in school days missed due to health issues, and greater flexibility to spend resources on providing for the direct costs associated with sending children to school. And if families escape forced migration due to water scarcity, children's educational potential is even further improved with better stability and uninterrupted school attendance.\n\nPoverty is directly related to the accessibility of clean drinking water- without it, the chances of breaking out of the poverty trap are extremely slim. This concept of a \"water poverty trap\" was developed by economists specifically observing sub-Saharan Africa and refers to a cycle of financial poverty, low agricultural production, and increasing environmental degradation. In this negative feedback loop, this creates a link between the lack of water resources with the lack of financial resources that affect all societal levels including individual, household, and community. Within this poverty trap, people are subjected to low incomes, high fixed costs of water supply facilities, and lack of credit for water investments, which results in a low level of investment in water and land resources, lack of investment in profit-generating activities, resource degradation, and chronic poverty. Compounding on this, in the slums of developing countries, poor people typically pay five to ten times more per unit of water than do people with access to piped water because of issues – including the lack of infrastructure and government corruption – which is estimated to raise the prices of water services by 10% to 30%.\n\nSo, the social and economic consequences of a lack of clean water penetrate into realms of education, opportunities for gainful employment, physical strength and health, agricultural and industrial development, and thus the overall productive potential of a community, nation, and/or region. Because of this, the UN estimates that Sub-Saharan Africa alone loses 40 billion potential work hours per year collecting water.\n\nThe explosion of populations in developing nations within Africa combined with climate change is causing extreme strain within and between nations. In the past, countries have worked to resolve water tensions through negotiation, but there is predicted to be an escalation in aggression over water accessibility.\n\nAfrica's susceptibility to potential water-induced conflict can be separated into four regions: the Nile, Niger, Zambezi, and Volta basins. Running through Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan, the Nile's water has the potential to spark conflict and unrest. In the region of the Niger, the river basin extends from Guinea through Mali and down to Nigeria. Especially for Mali – one of the world's poorest countries – the river is vital for food, water and transportation, and its over usage is contributing to an increasingly polluted and unusable water source. In southern Africa, the Zambezi river basin is one of the world's most over-used river systems, and so Zambia and Zimbabwe compete fiercely over it. Additionally, in 2000, Zimbabwe caused the region to experience the worst flooding in recent history when the country opened the Kariba Dam gates. Finally, within the Volta river basin, Ghana is dependent on its hydroelectric output but plagued by regular droughts which affect the production of electricity from the Akosombo Dam and limit Ghana's ability to sustain economic growth. Paired with the constraints this also puts on Ghana's ability to provide power for the area, this could potentially contribute to regional instability.\n\nAt this point, federal intelligence agencies have issued the joint judgment that in the next ten years, water issues are not likely to cause internal and external tensions that lead to the intensification war. But if current rates of consumption paired with climatic stress continue, levels of water scarcity in Africa are predicted by UNECA to reach dangerously high levels by 2025. This means that by 2022 there is the potential for a shift in water scarcity's potential to contribute to armed conflict. Based on the classified National Intelligence Estimate on water security, requested by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and completed in Fall 2011, after 2022 water will be more likely to be used as a weapon of war and potential tool for terrorism, especially in North Africa. On World Water Day, the State Department stated that water stress, \"will likely increase the risk of instability and state failure, exacerbate regional tensions and distract countries from working with the United States on important policy objectives.\" Specifically referring to the Nile in Egypt, Sudan, and nations further south, the report predicts that upstream nations will limit access to water for political reasons and that terrorists may target water-related infrastructures, such as reservoirs and dams, more frequently. Because of this, the World Economic Forum's 2011 Global Risk Report has included water as one of the world's top five risks for the first time.\nHelp the ones in need. think about the ones who are in need.\n\nAccording to the Africa Partnership Forum, \"Although Africa is the continent least responsible for climate change, it is particularly vulnerable to the effects,\" and the long-term impacts include, \"changing rainfall patterns affecting agriculture and reducing food security; worsening water security; decreasing fish resources in large lakes due to rising temperature; shifting vector-borne diseases; rising sea level affecting low-lying coastal areas with large populations; and rising water stress\".\n\nMore specifically, the Human Development Report predicts warming paired with 10% less rainfall in interior regions of Africa, which will be amplified by water loss due to water loss increase from rising temperature. This warming will be greatest over the semi-arid regions of the Sahara, along the Sahel, and interior areas of southern Africa. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports that climate change in Africa has manifested itself in more intense and longer droughts in the subtropics and tropics, while arid or semi-arid areas in northern, western, eastern, and parts of southern Africa are becoming drier and more susceptible to variability of precipitation and storms.\n\nThe Human Development Report goes on to that explain that because of Africa's dependence on rain-fed agriculture, widespread poverty, and weak capacity, the water issues caused by climate change impact the continent much more violently compared to developed nations that have the resources and economic diversity to deal with such global changes. This heightened potential for drought and falling crop yields will most likely lead to increased poverty, lower incomes, less secure livelihoods, and an increased threat of chronic hunger for the poorest people in sub-Saharan Africa. Overall this means that water stress caused by changing amounts of precipitation is particularly damaging to Africa and thus climate change is one of the major obstacles the continent must face when trying to secure reliable and clean sources of water.\n\nWater scarcity is both a natural and human-made phenomenon. It is thus essential to break it down into two general types: Economic scarcity and physical scarcity. Economic scarcity refers to the fact that finding a reliable source of safe water is time consuming and expensive. Alternatively, physical scarcity is when there simply is not enough water within a given region.\n\nThe 2006 United Nations Economic Commission for Africa estimates that 300 million out of the 800 million who live on the African continent live in a water-scarce environment. Specifically in the very north of Africa, as well the very south of Africa, the rising global temperatures accompanying climate change have intensified the hydrological cycle that leads to drier dry seasons, thus increasing the risk of more extreme and frequent droughts. This significantly impacts the availability, quality and quantity of water due to reduced river flows and reservoir storage, lowering of water tables and drying up of aquifers in the northern and southern regions of Africa.\n\nIncluded in the category of physical scarcity is the issue of overexploitation. This is contributing to the shrinking of many of Africa's great lakes, including the Nakivale, Nakuru, and Lake Chad, which has shrunk to 10% of its former volume. In terms of policy, the incentives for overuse are among the most damaging, especially concerning ground water extraction. For ground water, once the pump is installed, the policy of many countries is to only constrain removal based on the cost of electricity, and in many cases subsidize electricity costs for agricultural uses, which damages incentives to conserve such resources. Additionally, many countries within Africa set the cost of water well below cost-recovery levels, thus discouraging efficient usage and threatening sustainability.\n\nThe majority of Sub-Saharan Africa suffers from economic scarcity because of the population's lack of the necessary monetary means to utilize adequate sources of water. Both political reasons and ethnic conflict have contributed to this unequal distribution of resources. Out of the two forms of water scarcity, economic scarcity can be addressed quickly and effectively with simple infrastructure to collect rainwater from roofs and dams, but this requires economic resources that many of these areas lack due to an absence of industrial development and widespread poverty.\n\nNorthern Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa are progressing towards the Millennium Development Goal on water at different paces. While Northern Africa has 92% safe water coverage, Sub-Saharan Africa remains at a low 60% of coverage – leaving 40% of the 783 million people in that region without access to clean drinking water.\n\nSome of these differences in clean water availability can be attributed to Africa's extreme climates. Although Sub-Saharan Africa has a plentiful supply of rainwater, it is seasonal and unevenly distributed, leading to frequent floods and droughts. Additionally, prevalent economic development and poverty issues, compounded with rapid population growth and rural-urban migration have rendered Sub-Saharan Africa as the world's poorest and least developed region. Thus, this poverty constrains many cities in this region from providing clean water and sanitation services and preventing the further deterioration of water quality even when opportunities exist to address these water issues. Additionally, the rapid population growth leads to an increased number of African settlements on flood-prone, high-risk land.\n\nTo adequately address the issue of water scarcity in Africa, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa emphasizes the need to invest in the development of Africa's potential water resources to reduce unnecessary suffering, ensure food security, and protect economic gains by effectively managing droughts, floods, and desertification. Some suggested and ongoing efforts to achieve this include an emphasis on infrastructural implementations and improvements of wells, rainwater catchment systems, and clean-water storage tanks.\n\nEfforts made by the United Nations in compliance with the Millennium Development Goals have targeted water scarcity not just for Africa, but globally. The compiled list includes eight international development goals, seven of which are directly impacted by water scarcity. Access to water affects poverty, food scarcity, educational attainment, social and economic capital of women, livelihood security, disease, and human and environmental health. Because addressing the issue of water is so integral to reaching the MDGs, one of the sub-goals includes halving the proportion of the globe's population without sustainable access to safe drinking water by 2015. In March 2012, the UN announced that this goal has been met almost four years in advance, suggesting that global efforts to reduce water scarcity are on a successful trend.\n\nAs one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, the United States plays an integral role in promoting solutions to aid with clean water scarcity. One of many efforts include USAID's WASH- the WASH for Life partnership with the Gates Foundation- that works to promote water, sanitation, and hygiene. With this, the U.S. \"will identify, test, and scale up evidence-based approaches for delivering these services to people in some of the poorest regions\". Additionally, in March 2012, Hillary Clinton announced the U.S. Water Partnership, which will bring together people from the private sector, the philanthropic community, non-governmental organizations, academics, experts, and the government in an attempt to look for system-wide solutions. The technologies and ability to tackle the issue of water scarcity and cleanliness are present, but it is highly a matter of accessibility. Thus, the partnership will aim at making these solutions available and obtainable at a local level.\n\nIn addition to the role the United States, the United Nations, and other international governmental bodies, a number of charitable organizations work to provide clean water in Africa and elsewhere around the world. These charities are based on individual and group donations, which are then invested in a variety of methods and technologies to provide clean water.\n\nThe more basic solutions to help provide Africa with drinkable and usable water include well-digging, rain catchment systems, de-worming pills, and hand pumps, but high demand for clean water solutions has also prompted the development of some key creative solutions as well.\n\nSome non-profit organizations have focused on the aspect of drinking water contamination from sewage waste by installing cost-effective and relatively maintenance-free toilets, such as Drop In The Bucket's \"Eco-sanitation Flush Toilet\" or Pump Aid's \"Elephant Toilet\". The Elephant Toilet uses community-sourced resources in construction to build a relatively simple waste disposal mechanism that separates solids from liquids to promote faster decomposition and lower the impact on ground water. In comparison, the Eco-Sanitation Flush Toilet also uses no power of any kind, but actually treats sewage rather than just storing it so that the toilet's output is only water. Both solutions are then simple for residents of African communities to maintain and have a notable impact on the cleanliness of local water sources.\n\nOther solutions to clean water scarcity issues have focused on innovative pump systems, including hand-pumps, Water for People's \"Play Pumps\", and Pump Aid's \"Elephant Pumps\". All three designs are built to aid communities in drawing clean water from wells. The hand pump is the most basic and simple to repair, with replacement parts easily found. Using a more creative approach, Play Pumps combine child's play with clean water extraction through the use of playground equipment, called a roundabout. The idea behind this is as children play on the roundabout, water will simultaneously be pumped from a reservoir tank to either toilets, hand-washing stations, or for drinking water. Some downsides to the PlayPump, though, are its inability to address situations of physical water scarcity and the danger of exploitation when children's play is equated with pumping water. Alternatively, Elephant Pumps are simple hand water pumps. After a well is prepared, a rope-pump mechanism is installed that is easy to maintain, uses locally sourced parts, and can be up and running in the time span of about a week. The Elephant Pump can provide 250 people with 40 litres of clean water per person per day.\n\nMoving beyond sanitary waste disposal and pumps, clean water technology can now be found in the form of drinking straw filtration. Used as solution by Water Is Life, the straw is small, portable, and costs USD$10 per unit. The filtration device is designed to eliminate waterborne diseases, and as a result, provide safe drinking water for one person for one year.\n\nOverall, a wide range of cost-effective, manageable, and innovative solutions are available to help aid Africa in producing clean, disease-free water. Ultimately what it comes down to is using technology appropriate for each individual community's needs. For the technology to be effective, it must conform to environmental, ethical, cultural, social, and economic aspects of each Africa community. Additionally, state governments, donor agencies, and technological solutions must be mindful of the gender disparity in access to water so as to not exclude women from development or resource management projects. If this can be done, with sufficient funding and aid to implement such technologies, it is feasible to eliminate clean water scarcity for the African continent by the Millennium Development Goal deadline of 2015.\n\nAfrica is home to both the largest number of water-scarce countries out of any region, as well as home to the most difficult countries to reach in terms of water aid. The prevalence of rural villages traps many areas in what the UN Economic Commission for Africa refers to as the \"Harvesting Stage\", which makes water-scarce regions difficult to aid because of a lack of industrial technology to make solutions sustainable. In addition to the geographic and developmental limiting factors, a number of political, economic reasons also stand in the way of ensuring adequate aid for Africa. Politically, tensions between local governments versus foreign non-governmental organizations impact the ability to successfully bring in money and aid-workers. Economically, urban areas suffer from extreme wealth gaps in which the overwhelming poor often pay four to ten times more for sanitary water than the elite, hindering the poor from gaining access to clean water technologies and efforts. As a result of all these factors, it is estimated that fifty percent of all water projects fail, less than five percent of projects are visited, and less than one percent have any long term monitoring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8936156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8936156", "title": "Western Regional Advocacy Project", "text": "Western Regional Advocacy Project\n\nThe Western Regional Advocacy Project (WRAP) is a US West Coast alliance of grassroots homeless people's organizations that advocates for changes to Federal housing policy, and for an end to local and state policies that it considers to violate the civil rights of homeless people.\n\nIts member organizations are:\n\nWRAP is best recognized for its publication \"Without Housing: Decades of Federal Housing Cutbacks, Massive Homelessness, and Policy Failures\", which details Federal housing policy immediately prior to, and in the decades since, the advent of modern mass homelessness. The report was initially published in 2006, with an update in 2010.\n\n"}
