{"id": "41904792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41904792", "title": "Agudas Israel (Latvia)", "text": "Agudas Israel (Latvia)\n\nThe Agudas Israel (Hebrew for \"Union of Israel\") was a political party in Latvia in the inter-war period. Primarily a party of the orthodox Jews, it was the most conservative of the Jewish parties in the country, seeking to limit the power of state monopolies. It was led by Mordehai Dubin.\n\nThe party first contested national elections in 1922, when it won two seats in the 1st Saeima. It retained both seats in the 2nd Saeima after the 1925 elections, but was reduced to one seat in the 1928 elections. The 1931 elections saw the party win two seats in the 4th Saeima. However, after the 1934 Latvian coup d'état multi-party elections were not held again until 1990.\n"}
{"id": "4750124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4750124", "title": "Aiwass", "text": "Aiwass\n\nAiwass //is the name given to a voice that English occultist Aleister Crowley claimed to have heard on April 8, 9, and 10 in 1904. Crowley claimed that this voice, which he considered originated with a non-corporeal intelligence, dictated \"The Book of the Law\" (or \"Liber Legis\") to him.\n\nAccording to Crowley, the first appearance of Aiwass was during the Three Days of the writing of \"Liber al vel Legis\". His first and only identification as such is in Chapter I: \"Behold! it is revealed by Aiwass the minister of Hoor-paar-kraat\" (AL I:7).\n\nHoor-paar-kraat (Egyptian: Har-par-khered) is more commonly referred to by the Greek transliteration Harpocrates, meaning \"Horus the Child\", whom Crowley considered to be the central deity within the Thelemic cosmology (see: Aeon of Horus). However, Harpocrates also represents the Higher Self, the Holy Guardian Angel.\n\nCrowley described the encounter in detail in \"The Equinox of the Gods\", saying:\nIn the later-written \"Liber 418\", the voice of the 8th Aethyr says \"my name is called Aiwass,\" and \"in \"The Book of the Law\" did I write the secrets of truth that are like unto a star and a snake and a sword.\" Crowley says this later manifestation took the form of a pyramid of light.\n\nCrowley went to great pains to argue that Aiwass was an objectively separate being from himself, possessing far more knowledge than he or any other human could possibly have. He wrote \"no forger could have prepared so complex a set of numerical and literal puzzles\". As Crowley writes in his \"Confessions\": \"I was bound to admit that Aiwass had shown a knowledge of the Cabbala immeasurably superior to my own\" and \"We are forced to conclude that the author of \"The Book of the Law\" is an intelligence both alien and superior to myself, yet acquainted with my inmost secrets; and, most important point of all, that this intelligence is discarnate.\" Finally, this excerpt (also from \"Confessions\", ch.49):\n\nHowever, Crowley also spoke of Aiwass in symbolic terms. In \"The Law is for All\", he goes on at length in comparison to various other deities and spiritual concepts, but most especially to The Fool. For example, he writes of Aiwass: \"In his absolute innocence and ignorance he is The Fool; he is the Saviour, being the Son who shall trample on the crocodiles and tigers, and avenge his father Osiris. Thus we see him as the Great Fool of Celtic legend, the Pure Fool of Act I of \"Parsifal\", and, generally speaking, the insane person whose words have always been taken for oracles.\"\n\nPerhaps more importantly, Crowley later identified Aiwass as his own personal Holy Guardian Angel and more. Again from \"Equinox of the Gods\": \"I now incline to believe that Aiwass is not only the God once held holy in Sumer, and mine own Guardian Angel, but also a man as I am, insofar as He uses a human body to make His magical link with Mankind, whom He loves, and that He is thus an Ipsissimus, the Head of the A∴A∴\"\n\nYet even while eventually identifying Aiwass as his Holy Guardian Angel, Crowley still went to even greater lengths in his later years to insist that Aiwass was an objective entity apart from himself, even going as far as to declare in no uncertain terms that the Holy Guardian Angel is not only entirely objective, but is also not to be confused with the \"Higher Self,\" as in his final work, \"Magick Without Tears\": \"The Holy Guardian Angel is not the 'Higher Self' but an Objective individual. . . . He is not, let me say with emphasis, a mere abstraction from yourself; and that is why I have insisted rather heavily that the term 'Higher Self' implies 'a damnable heresy and a dangerous delusion'. . . . If it were not so, there would be no point in \"The Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage\".\"\n\nIn \"Magick in Theory and Practice\", Aiwass is firmly identified by Crowley as \"The Devil,\" \"Satan,\" and \"Lucifer,\" whose \"emblem is Baphomet.\" This assertion is made while Crowley is discussing \"The Devil.\" After explaining that \"The Devil\" does not exist, he goes on to clarify his statements by explaining that \"The Devil\" is in reality a label for the God of any people that one dislikes, and this fact has led to so much \"confusion of thought\" on the subject that Crowley prefers to \"let names stand as they are, and to proclaim simply that AIWAZ, the solar-phallic-hermetic ‘Lucifer,’ is His own Holy Guardian Angel, and ‘The Devil’ SATAN or HADIT, the Supreme Soul behind RA-HOOR-KHUIT the Sun, the Lord of our particular unit of the Starry Universe. This serpent, SATAN, is not the enemy of Man, but He who made Gods of our race, knowing Good and Evil; He bade ‘Know Thyself!’ and taught Initiation. He is ‘the Devil’ of the Book of Thoth, and His emblem is BAPHOMET, the Androgyne who is the hieroglyph of arcane perfection.\"\n\nA number of authors have expressed the view that Aiwass was most likely an unconscious manifestation of Crowley's personality. Occultist Israel Regardie argued for this view in his Crowley biography, \"The Eye in the Triangle\", and considered that The Book of the Law was a \"colossal wish fulfillment\" on Crowley's part. Regardie noted that in 1906 Crowley wrote: \"It has struck me – in connection with reading Blake that Aiwass, etc. 'Force and Fire' is the very thing I lack. My 'conscience' is really an obstacle and a delusion, being a survival of heredity and education.\" Regardie argued that because Crowley felt that his Fundamentalist upbringing instilled him in an overly rigid conscience, when he rebelled against Christianity “he must have yearned for qualities and characteristics diametrically opposed to his own. In The Book of the Law the wish is fulfilled.” Charles R. Cammell, author of \"Aleister Crowley: The Man, the Mage, the Poet\" also wrote that The Book of the Law was \"in part (but in part only) an emanation from Crowley's\nunconscious mind I can believe; for it bears a likeness to his own Daemonic personality.\" Journalist Sarah Veale has also argued that Aiwass was an externalised part of Crowley's psyche and in support of this view quotes Crowley himself as saying:\n\nA number of authors such as Israel Regardie, Sarah Veale, and academic Joshua Gunn have argued that the stylistic similarities between The Book of the Law and Crowley's other writings are evidence that Crowley rather than a discarnate entity was the sole source of the book.\n\nOccultist Michael Aquino of the Temple of Set also believed on esoteric grounds that Aiwass was probably \"a subjective idealization of Crowley's own personality\". Aquino based this assertion on the fact that Aiwass identifies himself as \"minister of Hoor-pa-kraat\"(Chapter I, verse 7). In the view of the Temple of Set, Hoor-pa-kraat, also known as \"Harpokrates\" or Horus the Younger, is considered to be \"the later Osirian corruption of the Great Horus\" also known as Horus the Elder. Aquino does not believe in the objective existence of Hoor-pa-kraat, hence he considers the objective authenticity of Aiwass \"doubtful\" although he did consider The Book an \"inspired utterance\".\n\nCrowley, being the Qabalist that he was, labored to discover Aiwass's number within the system of gematria. Initially he believed that it was 78: \"I had decided on AIVAS = 78, the number of Mezla, the influence from the highest unity, and therefore suitable enough as the title of a messenger from Him.\" After receiving a letter from a stranger, the typographer and publisher Samuel A. Jacobs (whose Golden Eagle Press published the work of e.e.cummings and others), and whose Hebrew name was Shmuel bar Aiwaz bie Yackou de Sherabad, Crowley asked the Hebrew spelling of Aiwaz. To Crowley's astonishment and delight, it was OIVZ, which equated to 93, the number of Thelema itself, and \"also that of the Lost Word of freemasonry, which I had re-discovered\". Crowley remained perplexed, though, since the spelling of the name in AL was \"Aiwass\" not \"AIVAS\", which does not add up to 93. However, when Crowley decided to use the Greek Qabalah, he discovered that\n\nAccording to Israel Regardie, a certain \"Qabalist of tremendous knowledge\" would have discovered a Hebrew spelling that enumerates to 418 were he aware that Tav is pronounced /s/ when without a \"dagesh\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25440851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25440851", "title": "Al-Ja'fari", "text": "Al-Ja'fari\n\nAl-Ja'fari ( ) is a surname commonly associated with descendants of Ja'far al-Sadiq, an important Muslim scholar and the 6th Shia Imam. In South Asia, Persia and the Levant, those of this genealogy, also often take the honorific title of Sayyid. Descendants of Ja'far al-Sadiq can most commonly be found amongst the Shi'i of Iraq, Iran and the Indian subcontinent. Some Sunni Muslims also associate with the surname Ja’fari.\n\nVariant transliterations include Ja'fari, Jaafari, Jafari, Jafri, Jaffrey or Jaffery\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37813899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37813899", "title": "Ari Elon", "text": "Ari Elon\n\nAri Elon (Hebrew: ארי אלון) (born 1950) is an Israeli writer, a Talmud scholar and educator.\n\nElon was born in Jerusalem in 1950. He is the son of former Israel Supreme Court Justice Menachem Elon. Elon's brothers include the late Israeli politician, MK Benny Elon, disgraced Rabbi Mordechai Elon and Be'er Sheva District Court Judge Joseph (\"Sefi\") Elon . \nDespite his family's religious background, he became secular at a young age. He taught Talmud and Midrash at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Elon taught at various institutions throughout Israel, including BINA Center for Jewish Identity and Hebrew Culture, and served as the director of the Rabbinic Texts Program at the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Philadelphia.\n\n"}
{"id": "47211401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47211401", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Greater Boston", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Greater Boston\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Greater Boston, a combined statistical area, has had glimpses of the religion in the 19th century arising to its first community of religionists at the turn of the century. Early newspaper accounts of events were followed by papers on the precursor Bábí religion by Dr. Rev. Austin H. Wright were noted, materials donated, and lost, and then other scholars began to write about the religion. The community began to coalesce being near to Green Acre, founded by Sarah Farmer, who publicly espoused the religion from 1901. From then on the institution would progressively be associated with Bahá'ís - a place where both locals and people from afar came to learn of the religion, and who officially took over controlling interest from 1913. Leaders rising to national prominence with a national level of organization soon arose after `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, traveled through the area for about 40 days and across the United States for some 239 days. Most prominent were Harlan Ober, William Henry Randall, and Alfred E. Lunt, who served in events in the Boston area, Green Acre boards, and national institutions of the religion. In addition to national leaders in the religion, a number of notable individuals joined the religion and were increasingly visible - such as Urbain Ledoux, Sadie and Marby Oglesby, James Ferdinand Morton, Jr., Nancy Bowditch, and Guy Murchie. The community moved from beginning to host public meetings to systematically support a presence in a Center in Boston with services and presentations on the religion as well as a racially integrated community since 1935. Starting about the 1950s and broadening into the 1960s there was wider recognition of the Bahá'ís themselves. Sometimes this took the form of noting their persecution in Morocco and then Iran and other times noting local concerts and fairs with their participation. The modern community, albeit a tiny fraction of the wider population, is present in some concentrations and thin areas throughout the greater Boston area. Over the last couple of decades it has been systematically pursuing programs of neighborhood community building activities of study circles, children's classes, junior youth groups, and devotional meetings among the activities and observances of the religion.\n\nThe first mention related to the history of the Bahá'í Faith known in Massachusetts concerns news Bábism in Qajar Persia, which Bahá'ís hold as a direct precursor akin to the relationship between John the Baptist and Jesus. This was a newspaper article printed in the \"Boston Courier\" December 29, 1845, reporting on events from the previous June. It is an echo of the original published in the London \"Times\" Nov 1, 1845. This Boston mention repeated January 1846 in the \"Boston Evening Transcript\", the \"Christian Witness and Church Advocate\", In February in the \"Christian Journal\" out of Exeter, New Hampshire, and then again later in June 1847. In Bahá'í records this event is reported in \"The Dawn-Breakers\" following Quddús' arrival in Shiraz after the pilgrimage of the Báb. The next newspaper reference to events of this period was in November 1850, echoing newspaper articles as early as the previous July.\n\nThe first \"paper\" on events of this period is a letter written to the American Oriental Society which was holding its meeting in Boston and the library of materials was held at the Boston Athenæum. The letter was originally published as part of the minutes of the Society in \"The Literary World\" of June 14, 1851, as an untitled entry whose first quote is \"notice of a singular character, who has for some years past played a prominent part on the stage of Persian life\" dated February 10, 1851 by Dr. Rev. Austin H. Wright. It is considered the first paper giving an account on Bábism, though it makes mistakes typical of the period. See also Josephus on Jesus. It was subsequently also published in a Vermont newspaper June 26, 1851, and a translation was published in a German newspaper. Wright, father of Lucy Myers Wright Mitchell and John Henry Wright, was a medical missionary from New England to Persia among the Nestorian Christians.\n\nWright followed up with another paper/letter \"A short chapter in the history of Bâbeeism in Persia\" to the Society published in May 1853. Donations to the Society, while mentioned in the first paper, are not listed actually being cataloged, however another donation in 1856 is noted when another set were sent. The library of materials of the period was first kept under Charles Folsom at the Boston Athenæum until 1855, then the materials were moved to New Haven and accepted at Yale University in July. The collection was dispersed and then regathered, purged and organized in 1905 by Hanns Oertel. By 1930 the only Bábí related texts in the collection were later works that had been gathered by E. G. Browne.\n\nWright died in what was then called Urumiah, in Qajar Persia, January 14, 1865.\n\nBostonian Stephen Greenleaf Bulfinch wrote about the religion following the work of Frenchman Ernst Renan who wrote The Origins of Christianity: The apostles in 1866. Bulfinch had been a Unitarian minister since 1830 but resigned circa 1860 when he accepted the Trinity Doctrine. Across some 11 pages Bulfinch made comparisons between the Báb and Jesus mostly positive though he also calls the religion a \"delusion\".\n\nHe marks the court examination of the claims of the Báb like the examination of Jesus (suggesting the account may in fact have been copied), then after while continues:\n\nThough later than the Bábí period perse, Unitarian minister born, educated, and worked often in Massachusetts, James Thompson Bixby wrote about the religion in 1897 and made a student journal of Boston College doing so. He also later lectured on the religion in 1901 at Green Acre. Bixby also turned his attention to the Bahá'í period. He published an article on the religion in August 1912 in the North American Review, after he had offered it to the Bahá'ís to review. Objecting to it, an interview with `Abdu'l-Bahá was subsequently arranged in April 1912 and published in Star of the West in August as well.\n\nThough the religion was established in the United States before 1900, by then no more than a dozen Bahá'ís were in New England. Compared to the early growth in other places, and massive growth in South Carolina decades later, the region had relatively little Millennium interests - see Second and Third Great Awakening and the Burned-over district. Nevertheless, individuals from, educated in, or lived their lives in, Greater Boston were among the first Bahá'ís of the United States. At the same time some perhaps well meaning if inaccurate reviews or even misinformed views of the Bábist/Bahá'í views were done as early as 1900.\n\nThornton Chase (February 22, 1847 – September 30, 1912) was born in Springfield, Massachusetts and was a U.S. businessman and writer; he was commonly recognized as the first convert to the Bahá'í Faith of Occidental background. During his life he organized many Bahá'í activities in Chicago and Los Angeles and is considered a prominent Bahá'í.\n\nIn 1895 Kate Ives, née Cowan, of Orleans, Massachusetts, may have been the first woman born in the United States to accept the Bahá'í Faith, and was the first Bahá'í to move to Boston in 1899.\n\nThe Green Acre Bahá'í School is established in Eliot, Maine, at the northern edge of Greater Boston becoming an important learning center for Bahá'ís and non-Bahá'ís in Greater Boston and across the United States. Maria P. Wilson was in the company of Sarah Farmer on a trip overseas when they learned of the religion in 1900 from Josephine Locke and Elizabeth Knudson. Farmer was publicly linked with the religion in June 1901 after she had found truth in various religions and quasi-religious groups. But of the Bahá'í Faith, it was explained, \"... she has found the common faith in which all devout souls may unite and yet be free.\" It was then announced Green Acre would be a place to learn of the religion, run in parallel with the other classes already established, but for free. Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, among the most scholarly trained Bahá'ís of the time, was there. Ali Kuli Khan, to serve as his translator, arrived in the United States in June. Abu'l-Fadl had accompanied Anton Haddad, the first Bahá'í to live in the United States, on his return trip to America. They had been sent by then head of the religion, `Abdu'l-Bahá. The later well known Bahá'í Agnes Baldwin Alexander was also there. News of the Boston area community began to be noted in the newspapers. It was at these classes with Abu'l-Fadl Mary Hanford Ford is considered to have joined the religion. Ford moved to the Boston area for a couple years. It was not her first time in Boston. She, Ali Kuli Khan, and the Breeds, whom she introduced to the religion, were soon active as a community in Boston area. By December 1901 Bahá'ís in Chicago knew she was a Bahá'í and working with Sarah Farmer on projects. Ford was noted in Boston in November 1903 giving her talk on \"The Holy Grail\", and news of the mistreatment of Bábís/Baha'is in Persia was noted in August 1903. Khan was soon visible living in Boston in 1904, and Khan had married Bostonian Bahá'í, Florence Breed in 1904. Alice Ives Breed, Florence's mother, originally from Pavilion Illinois, born Jan 15, 1853, was a leading philanthropist socialite of the area. Ford would return for a talk a decade later.\n\nOther Bahá'ís noted in the period are: Oscar S. Greenleaf was the first Baha'i in Springfield, Massachusetts, Henry Goodale, and Maria P. Wilson soon moved to Boston, Massachusetts in 1902. Professional singer Mary Lucas who went on Bahá'í pilgrimage with Nathan Fitz-Gerald in January–February 1905 and meet `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion. Nebraskan/Illinoian Albert Ross Vail attended Harvard Divinity School, a center of Unitarian training, for 3 years. Vail studied with William James on pragmatist philosophy. In 1906 he served as president of the Unitarian student group as well as the Harvard Divinity School Unitarian Club in his final year there. It is unknown if he was ever aware of Ali Kuli Khan's appearance at Harvard as a guest of James in 1905, but he moved to Urbana, Illinois and served a Unitarian congregation near the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, arriving in September 1906. The first known connection with Bahá'ís is when Vail's group hosted \"Amir Ullah Fareed\", who was listed as a student of the Medical College of the University, and who spoke on April 28, 1907. Fareed circulated some early printed prayers visible in Boston and would serve as one of `Abdu'l-Bahá's translators in 1912.\n\nAfter marrying in 1904, Khan gave a talk at Alice Ives Breed home in Cambridge, Massachusetts. By 1905 regular Bahá'í meetings were established in Boston whether in homes or in public venues. Khan was visible at a women's club meeting in March 1905 at Sewall Hall. Bahá'ís began to be profiled in the news in 1909. Mary Lucas, returned from her pilgrimage, published an account of her journey. Lucas would be visible at occasional Bahá'í events until her death in 1934.\n\nHarlan Ober and Alfred E. Lunt were Bostonians who joined the religion in the summer of 1905 at Green Acre with Ober learning of the religion first through Alice Buckton, and then Lunt learned of the religion from Ober. Ober had been in shipping interests. Ober and Lunt were leaders in Republican party politics on college campuses, in the era of the Fourth Party System also known as the Progressive Era. Ober's parents lived in Beverly, Massachusetts, and Lunt was a Harvard Law school graduate. Picture of Lunt\n\nIn the summer of 1906 Stanwood Cobb learned of the religion from a series of articles in the \"Boston Transcript\" and went to Green Acre to learn more of the religion. He successively conversed with Sarah Farmer and Mary Lucas. Thornton Chase was also there giving a series of talks. It was on that occasion that Cobb joined the religion.\n\nBy the Winter of 1906 Louis Bourgeois, later architect of the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois, and his wife had joined the religion after having \"come into association with the Baha'i Faith through Marie Watson and Mary Hanford Ford.\" Khan and his family went on Bahá'í pilgrimage in 1906.\n\nCirca early 1907 or late 1906 Ober went on Bahá'í pilgrimage and was asked to go with Hooper Harris on a trip to India promulgating the religion, an effort noted as lasting \"... no less than seven months, in India and Burma, visiting Bombay, Poona, Lahore, Calcutta, Rangoon and Mandalay.\" `Abdu'l-Bahá's guidance to them amounted to behaving very differently than Christian missionaries. Ober returned and was visible at Green Acre late summer 1907. Ober went on a second pilgrimage in May 1909 with the MacNutt family and others. One early joke in the history of the religion comes from Ober about whether he was going to India or America ...\n\nOne day in the Holy Land He told Harlan Ober, an American Bahá'í, that he was to go to India. Harlan Ober did travel far and wide in the interests of the Faith, but at that particular time he did not cherish making that journey. A few days later `Abdu'l-Bahá told him to go to America. \"But Master,\" Ober said, \"I thought I was going to India.\" \"So did Christopher Columbus,\" `Abdu'l-Bahá replied.\n\nLunt continued to be active in Republican politics in 1908 and was visible at Green Acre in 1909.\n\nThe Khans returned and he was visible in Boston by 1908. That year the first Bahá'í governing board was elected, the forerunner of the first Local Spiritual Assembly of Boston. The community sent a delegate to the first national convention in 1909, and the existence of the community was noted in a national journal. The first known meeting in a public meeting space was held November 7, 1909. The following were present: Harriet Sprague, Lily Ostburg, Frances Godard, Helen Campbell, Francis Harding, Anise Rideout, Julia Culver, Raffie Esphahani, Althea Dorr, George Ostburg, Maria P. Wilson, Alice Ives Breed. On March 24, 1910 the assembly was composed of: officers Harlan Ober, Grace Robarts, Julia Culver, George Ostburg, and members Mrs. H. Sprague; Mrs. F. Goddard, Alice Ives Breed, Helen Campbell, and Mrs. E. Flees. Notable speakers at events in the Boston community included Stanwood Cobb, Lua Getsinger, and Edna McKinney.\n\nKhan was then appointed Iranian Charge D'Affaires in Washington D. C. in 1910.\n\nIn 1911 Lunt was visible as a solicitor for Beverly, Mass., member of the national executive board of the Bahá'ís, and participating in a Bostonian Bahá'í Naw-Rúz commemoration with guests.\n\nFannie Fern Andrews of Boston was the second vice president of the Persian Educational Society in 1912 with strong connections to the religion.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, embarked on travels to the West following release from imprisonment and was anticipated coming to Boston.\n\nBefore coming to Boston, on 23 April 1912, `Abdu'l-Bahá attended several events. One was a reception in Washington D. C. by the Persian Charge D'Affaires Ali Kuli Khan, and the Turkish Ambassador; at this reception `Abdu'l-Bahá moved the place-names such that the only African-American present, Louis G. Gregory, was seated at the head of the table next to himself, an event that was highly noted at the time and since. One of the early versions of the story of this event was told by Harlan Ober.\n\nIn Boston newspaper reporters asked `Abdu'l-Bahá why he had come to America, and he stated that he had come to participate in conferences on peace and that just giving warning messages is not enough. A full page summary of the religion was printed in the New York Times. A booklet on the religion was published late April out of Boston.\n\nOn 14 May `Abdu'l-Bahá went to northern New York state to Lake Mohonk addressing the Lake Mohonk Conference on International Arbitration and stayed at the Mohonk Mountain House.\n\nHis talk was covered by many publications including one from Boston, and began\n\nWhen we consider history, we find that civilization is progressing, but in this century its progress cannot be compared with that of past centuries. This is the century of light and of bounty. In the past, the unity of patriotism, the unity of nations and religions was established; but in this century, the oneness of the world of humanity is established; hence this century is greater than the past.\n\nHarlan Ober and Grace Robarts, (who had learned of the religion from Lua Getsinger,) were married July 1912 with `Abdu'l-Bahá attending. Grace served as housekeeper and hostess for `Abdu'l-Bahá during his journeys in America.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá left from New York City on the 22nd of May for Boston where he would be for four days. On the evening of his arrival he addressed a Unitarian convention then going on. There was an audience of some three thousand including hundreds of Unitarian ministers. On the 23rd he visited a Greek-Syrian relief agency, a special meeting at University of Worcester, Massachusetts, and a party for his birthday was held during which he spoke of the importance of the Báb though he also lamented the cake, which had flags of United States, Persia, and the UK, wasn't big enough to hold flags from all countries. On the 24th he met with individuals, a talk before some Unitarians, another in Brookline, and then a talk at the home of a Bahá'í. On the 25th he met with individuals. Sometime during this visit is the incident where William Randall delivered grape juice for `Abdu'l-Bahá.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá arrived for the second time in Boston July 23 but sent most of the entourage ahead to Dublin, NH. That evening he addressed an audience at a hotel as well as a later one in the home of the Breeds. On the 24th he spoke with individual visitors and for a talk before a club. Some from the club followed him back from that talk and on return there was also a line of people waiting for him at the hotel that evening. He also spoke to the Boston Theosophical Society. On the 25th he met with individuals before he left for Dublin.\n\nFrom July 26 to August 16 he was in Dublin. He often met with individuals and small groups or made short trips to visit nearby Baha'is and a camp for youth. He also carried on with corresponding through letter across the United States and to Europe. One evening he announced the betrothal of Louis G. Gregory and Louisa Mathew and astonished the crowd. Elders with ear trumpets listened. Once he took his Persian entourage aside and spoke comparing feasts of kings that were brilliant but had no enthusiasm while there they ate modestly and in hard circumstances or so it seemed but everywhere there was real enthusiasm of the heart. On August 11 he was noted speaking to a local Unitarian church with answers to questions of such length and detail that it was claimed he must have memorized the answers beforehand. He compared his yearning to see the audience to the Apostles that traveled far to see people. From there he left for Green Acre August 16.\n\nHe then went to Eliot, Maine from 16 to 23 Aug, where he stayed in Green Acre. Some five or eight hundred people were there to hear the first talk. The talk was about ways of knowing the truth - he disavowed individual approaches like pure reason, simple authority, individual inspiration, etc., but affirmed:\n\n[A] statement presented to the mind accompanied by proofs which the senses can perceive to be correct, which the faculty of reason can accept, which is in accord with traditional authority and sanctioned by the promptings of the heart, can be adjudged and relied upon as perfectly correct, for it has been proved and tested by all the standards of judgment and found to be complete.\n\nSome in the audience repudiated their former beliefs of inspiration as pure truth. At other talks members of the audience wept during his prayers or fainted. He spoke to a girls club camp group by the river on August 19.\n\nFred Mortensen arrived August 20. Mortensen had been a criminal that fled arrest - his lawyer was Bahá'í Albert Hall of Minnesota from whom he learned of the religion. Riding from Minneapolis to Cleveland he then went on to Green Acre - all by way of Freighthopping. Being introduced in a crowd he was embarrassed at his dirty appearance and then was told to sit down amid the company of people in fine dress and wait but soon `Abdu'l-Bahá returned and began to speak closely with Mortensen. His inquiry revealed how Mortisen had traveled and Mortisen felt kindness from `Abdu'l-Bahá. Mortisen had arrived on a day `Abdu'l-Baha had arranged as a feast. On the last day at Green Acre he met with individuals and left the 23rd.\n\nHis final destination in New England was Malden, Massachusetts at the home of Maria P. Wilson, originally of Boston, where he stayed from 23 to 29 August. In Malden he spoke to various groups - a New Thought movement, a women's suffrage group, a metaphysical thought group, and a theosophical group. He also attended a marriage ceremony of Clarence Johnson and Ruby Breed, daughter of Alice Breed and sister to Florence Breed Khan.\n\nAlbert Vail accompanied William H. Randall meeting `Abdu'l-Bahá there in late August. Vail would later mark this as a pivotal point for his life but at first he didn't remark on it publicly. Later he said:\n\nSix years ago I met a servant of God named Abdul Baha, so universal in mind, brilliant in utterance, so pure, so radiant with universal love, so majestic in the power of his holy spirit that I became convinced he and his equally perfect and glorious father, Baha o'llah, were God's own messengers of light and salvation to our modern world ...\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá then left for Montreal where he arrived near midnight on 30 August 1912.\n\nA number of individuals and institutions became more prominent after `Abdu'l-Bahá's travels through the region.\n\nAs early as January 1913 Albert Vail, then a Unitarian Minister, was visible promulgating the religion, and was listed as the delegate to the \"Bahai Temple Unity\" national convention from the Urbana Bahá'í community. He reported on developments in Urbana Illinois of study of the Bahá'í teachings and seems to quote the Writings saying: \"It is remarkable to observe how the Spirit seems to catch and hold one, and the whole life seems set aflame as to the Truth. There is a mystery, a force in the Cause far above the ken of men and angels.\" and then spoke with an eloquence that moved and thrilled the audience. In a separate account of the convention, it was noted he was the final speaker of the meeting and that his \"discourse was unique in penetrating power and beauty of utterance among all the eloquent addresses of the Convention\" and that the chair had stopped reviewing the watch to limit speakers. Both accounts lamented that the speech was not written down but one said it traced the proofs of Manifestation, noting the martyrdoms of Persia, the need of divine authority to solve human problems, and the lives of the Central Figures of the Faith.\n\nVail was officially recognized to have joined the religion years later, after the majority of his congregation insisted he stop promoting the religion.\n\nIn the summer of 1913 Bahá'ís felt a strength of organization to attempt to win control of the board of Green Acre. Following this Kate Ives, the first Bahá'í of Boston, wrote a letter to the editor inviting Portsmouth residents to a talk on the religion. In 1914 Alfred E. Lunt was Secretary of the annual convention to elect the national leadership and was himself then elected along with William Henry Randall.\n\nIn Spring 1915 Bahá'ís gathered for the Panama–Pacific International Exposition - among them were Harlan Ober and Alfred E. Lunt. `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a letter about Expo thanking those that gathered. Following this Randall and Ober and others were visible at Green Acre. Sarah Farmer changed her will to bequeath Green Acre to the Bahá'ís in the event of her death and her family involuntarily committed her to a mental institution - in 1915 Randall lead the idea of rescuing her executed in combination by Randal, Ledoux, and Montford Mills, ultimately gathering a chief of police and a judge to accompany a court order to effect her freedom. Meanwhile, Lunt again served on the national board of Bahá'ís this time as president, with Ober as secretary. Meanwhile, Ober wrote a letter to the editor of the \"Boston Post\" about the religion and Green Acre. Farmer died, shortly after being released, in 1916. The eulogy was read by Kate Ives and attending were Lunt, Ober, and Randall among others of Boston and the area. Ober was noted an officer of Green Acre along with Lunt.\n\nThe Bahá'ís held meetings for the 1917 national convention at Green Acre and Boston.\n\nLunt was on the summer schedule at Green Acre in 1917, and performed a funeral program there in July 1918. Lunt gave a series of talks in Chicago in May 1919, as well as on the question of the minimum wage in 1922.\n\nLunt was noted on the board of trustees of Green Acre 1925, and served on the national assembly in 1928. In 1930 Lunt gave a talk in New York, and published \"The Supreme Affliction: A Study in Bahá'í Economics and Socialization\". Lunt was at a Temple dedication in 1931. In 1937 Lunt was visible giving a talk in New York again.\n\nIn 1917 Randall was noted speaking in Montreal in March. Randall was again elected to the national board and that year he was elected as president of the board. Randall was again elected, this time as national treasurer, in 1918. In 1919 Randall accompanied Vail on pilgrimage and his account was read verbatim to the national convention in the United States. He was listed as the contact for announcing events and reserving rooms at Green Acre in 1920 by Albert Vail.\n\nRandall was appointed to the supervisory board of the Bahá'í periodical \"Star of the West\" in 1922, and contributed an article on Green Acre. In 1923 he was noted as chairman of the board of Green Acre while continuing as treasurer for the national community for the newly designated National Spiritual Assembly. In 1925 it was announced the administrative offices of the religion would be run from Green Acre.\n\nRandall also took part in the 1928 \"Race Amity Convention\" held at Green Acre. Perhaps Randall's final appearance was August 1928 at a commemoration of the visit of `Abdu'l-Bahá to Green Acre.\n\nRandall died Feb 11, 1929 and a cable from Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, stating: \"Grief stricken passing Harry Randall. Distinguished and Beloved Servant of Bahá'u'lláh. Assure family and friends fervent prayers, heartfelt condolences in behalf Holy Leaves and myself. Hold befitting Memorials -signed Shoghi.\"\n\nHarlan Ober was elected to the national executive broad in 1917, and was at the 1919 national convention held in New York at which the Tablets of the Divine Plan, a series of letters about promulgating the religion intra-and-internationally following World War I were officially presented, following which he gave talk at a Chicago meeting in May. Letters suggesting that Bahá'ís take up \"deeds, not words\" following the Red Summer (1919) race riots arrived to Ober and soon there were Race Amity Conventions.\n\nIn 1920 Ober was present in Syria for the Knighting of `Abdu'l-Bahá. Randall was elected to the national board again in 1920 as treasurer and addressed the convention.\n\nIn 1928 Ober gave a talk in Brooklyn, and Grace hosted an evening social at Green Acre. Ober gave a talk in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1929. In 1930 Ober returned to Pennsylvania to give another talk, and was also noticed in Brooklyn.\n\n1931 Ober was with Louis Gregory for a talk.\n\nThe Ober family purchased a home near Green Acre in 1932 and Harlan soon was reading on the radio at WHEB weekly after noon from Spring into the Fall from 1933 into 1935,(with occasional gaps.) Grace spoke at the Portsmouth chapter of Hadassah and Harlan was also visible at other events - a funeral, and several series of talks in 1933. In 1933 he also gave a program series on \"Psychology and Life\" for Alpha Beta sorority and a ladies club.\n\nIn November 1934 Ober gave a talk in Eliot for the Christian Endeavor Society, a Zeta Alpha Men's Club of a Baptist church. The family wintered in New York to February 1935, and their college student daughter visited them in the summer of 1935.\n\nOber was a substitute speaker in January 1936 at Green Acre, and lead a funeral there.\n\nGrace died immediately after giving a talk at the Chicago Baha'i national convention in April 1938 - Harlan was then serving on the national spiritual assembly after traveling in Louisville Ky. Harlan gave his next talk at Green Acre that July, (noted radio personality too,) toured universities in Dec 1938, and served on the Green Acre summer committee for the school in 1939. That fall he was in the Golden Gate International Exposition in October 1939 with Louis G. Gregory, and spoke at an evening meeting. In 1940 he gave a talk at the Bahá'í Temple, and was again elected to the national assembly.\n\nIn 1941 he is noted among the Green Acre management for the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada (as it was then). Their son married at the later summer. In July 1942 he gives talk at Green Acre, followed by a series of talks.\n\nHe was in a Green Acre race Amity meeting in August 1942, and directly after was at a general session at Green Acre.\n\nOber was one among several present in a 1943 series of talks at Green Acre. A 1944 series included Ober and Bostonian Nancy Bowditch and he gave a later series at Portsmouth Bahá'í Center.\n\nIn 1945 Ober took a trip to Montana where he gave a talk, Ottawa in 1946, and tried to make an impression on Prince Edward Island (without much success). In 1947 he was in Utah giving a talk.\n\nHe stayed home in the Summer of 1951, and officiated at funeral of Louis G. Gregory, which he followed up with a series of talks at Green Acre as well as other opportunities. For a few years the public mentions of him are a couple funerals he oversaw, but in 1956 he gave a series of talks.\n\nIn the summer of 1961 a Bahá'í pioneer met Ober who was in a trip in Africa at the time.\n\nAlso known as Mrs. Harold Bowditch, (July 4, 1890 – May 1, 1979,) Nancy was the daughter of George de Forest Brush who was active in Dublin, New Hampshire as well as Europe.\n\nThe Brush family interacted with `Abdu'l-Bahá and the Bahá'ís while in Dublin in July and August 1912, especially during an annual out-of-doors play as well as a visit to their farm, but her first husband died unexpectedly in September. Nancy moved from place to place until she married Harvard graduate Dr. Harold Bowditch October 1916.\n\nBowditch became more involved with costume work for theatre productions. While her life was going well she also felt \"something was wanting in my existence and couldn't put a finger on ... I then began to seek for that missing link, going to most every church and attending various meetings ... (and) hearing of a meeting to be held in Boston about the Bahá'í Faith.\"\n\nI'll never forget entering the large hall and seeing around me such a different type of gathering from the usual Boston crowd. Here were both rich and poor, along with every race. Many were black. I listened to a wonderful talk on the Faith by Mr. Harry Randall and was so thrilled! Afterwards I made my way straight to the table where books were being sold in order to learn more about the subject. I picked out as many as could be comfortably carried home on the streetcar, then found to my dismay that I didn't have enough money with which to pay for them! The person at the book stand told me it was all right to take them home and pay at the next meeting.\n\nThis may have been an event the Boston Bahá'í community hosted called a \"World Unity Conference\" as part of a series sponsored by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States and covered in the \"Boston Evening Transcript\". Randall helped organize and spoke at it. She then credits Randall, Louise Drake Wright and her sister Mrs. George Nelson as aiding her inquiry into the religion while she read books like Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era. She officially joined the religion in 1929. She was visible in the 1930 Race Amity Convention held at Green Acre, and left on Bahá'í pilgrimage in late March 1931 with her then 19 yr. old daughter. They spent three weeks in the area of Haifa and left by way of Jerusalem taking in Christian paths of pilgrimage. She then attended the 1931 national convention reporting on events in Boston as the Chair of the Boston Assembly. She wrote of her pilgrimage in \"Star of the West\" in July 1931, and spoke of it in August.\n\nShe would continue working with the religion with occasional gaps in public mention. In 1948 she was listed as the corresponding secretary of the Bahá'í group of Brookline, Massachusetts,\n\nThe Bowditch's moved to Peterborough, New Hampshire in the south of the state in 1959, and attended the 1963 Bahá'í World Congress with a granddaughter, and in 1965 Nancy is pictured on the first local Spiritual Assembly.\n\nHarold died in August 1964 and their home at 12 Pine Street became the official Bahá'í Center of the community in 1967 at which Guy Murchie gave a talk for the opening ceremony.\n\nIn 1970 she was at the official presentation of a Bahá'í book to then Governor Walter R. Peterson, Jr. and published a book on her father.\n\n1972 she was noted for a Portsmouth Friends of the Library, spoke at Meriden Connecticut on her memory of meeting `Abdu'l-Bahá, and aided in costumes for play at Keene State College.\n\nUrbain J. Ledoux, (August 13, 1874 – April 8, 1941,) later known as \"Mr. Zero\", referring to his not wanting his own name to be prominent, was motivated early in his quest of service to humanity. After various stages of a career of service to others he reached the stage of a career diplomat. His approach of advocating for business development as a means to promote the interests of humanity was challenged, that it would be fruitless for higher aims unless personal transformation were brought to bear. He quit the diplomatic service and sought to work with non-governmental organizations for both business and peace interests. Soon he was working with the Bahá'ís and present during the conflict over the status of Sarah Farmer as noted above. After that he then began to found institutions seeking to aide humanity, making news first with the unemployment after the First World War among workers and veterans with a breadline in 1919.\n\nHe advocated for the Bahá'í Faith but was often misunderstood, though he did so with a limited understanding of the principles of the religion and proceeded to set up events aimed at raising awareness of the suffering of the unemployed in New York and Boston. His efforts were seen as too confrontational and his events were repeatedly shut down even when he sought to be less confrontational and have discussions with leaders. The work was renewed with greater intensity during the Great Depression but he was in his 60s already and died soon after. Some of his work and antics were recorded in pictures and newsreels. He died in 1941.\n\nAfrican-Americans Sadie (April 10, 1881 - Feb 1956) and Marby Oglesby (January 14, 1870 - May 19, 1945) became interested in the religion in 1913, joined it in 1917, were visible in newspapers giving talks on the religion since the 1920s through most of their lives, and Sadie went on Bahá'í pilgrimage in March 1927 during which race issues were a prominent part of the conversations and that Sadie should take a more engaged effort towards encouraging whites towards that unity as well as blacks. Sadie was the third black pilgrim, the first black woman, the first black pilgrim to meet Shoghi Effendi as head of the religion. Mabry was a railroad Pullman porter and president of the Boston chapter of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters in 1936. Sadie also worked and taught as a nurse. The couple had married in Washington DC in 1901 Both were also elected to the Boston Spiritual Assembly over many years where Sadie often served as secretary and occasionally as treasurer. Louis G. Gregory commented that the Boston Bahá'í community was integrated by 1935 with a large proportion being colored and largely through the work of Sadie.\n\nBeginning in 1907 James Ferdinand Morton, (October 18, 1870 – October 7, 1941,) published a series of articles under \"Fragments of a Mental Autobiography\" in a journal named \"Libra\" which outlines his religious background beginning with Baptist family heritage, goes through Unitarian relatives, and Theosophy exploration, (he was president of the Boston Theosophical Society in 1895) and placing Jesus and the Buddha among those on the highest level of his admiration even if he found fault with all scripture and organized religion. In this period Morton was an avid \"evangelist\" atheist, and often spoke out against religion, but he had already encountered the Bahá'í Faith which:\n\nAt first, I regarded it with amused interest, as one of many little cults; but gradually I found myself drawn into closer and closer relation with it. There was a wideness in its attitude which I had not found elsewhere. It held place for what was best in Christianity, Judaism, Mohammedanism, Buddhism, Freethought and all the rest, warring with none of these, but finding each of them definitely serviceable to the larger spiritual plan of the universe. It is the great reconciler and harmonizer. I have discovered in it an abiding-place which I had sought in vain for many restless years. It increases, rather than decreases, my eagerness to continue the investigation of truth without bias, and to labor energetically in all branches of human service. I have no fault to find with the differing conclusions of other truth-lovers, and am ready to work with them all as occasion offers. (near 1910)\n\nHe became a convert to the religion in later life. Morton is visibly in Bahá'í circles from 1915 on the program of presenters at Green Acre.\n\nIn 1913 the Boston Bahá'í community rented a room on Huntington Avenue for its weekly public meetings followed in 1914 when it moved to the S.S. Pierce building in Copley Square.\n\nIn 1917 greater Boston communities were noted sending delegates to the national convention: a combined Beverly-Salem MA delegation (Clarence H. Lunt, Edw. D. Struven), Boston proper (W. H. Randall, A. W. Randall), Cambridge (M. A. Doer), Dublin, NH (Frank A. Chant, Leona St. C Barnitz), Eliot, ME (Kate C. Ives), and Worcester, MA (Howard Stuven, Helen C Greene).\n\nNews of the survival of `Abdu'l-Bahá near the end of World War I made the \"Boston Post\", October 1918.\n\nIn 1919 the Boston Bahá'í community rented a twelve-room house at 120 Charles St. which continued in early 1920. In July a meeting was held at Hotel Victoria. Bahá'í pilgrims returning by the end of the year were noted in the \"Boston Post\" included Mrs. C H Cooper., H. S. Goodall, and A. J. Frankland. By early 1921 a more sustained series of meetings are held at Chauncy Hall at 585 Boylston St, (former home of local suffrage meetings,) Sunday evenings. And there was December coverage of the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá in neighboring Fritchburg.\n\nIn 1926 the Boston Bahá'í community hosted a \"World Unity Conference\" as noted above where Nancy Bowditch learned of the religion. The first day long meeting was held at Steinert Hall, the second at the Second Unitarian Church, and third at the Church of the Redemption where Randall chaired the day.\n\nIn 1939 Louise Erickson took a trip around New England promoting the religion.\n\nIn 1940 the Local Spiritual Assembly of Boston was incorporated, and the community held its own \"Race Unity Day\" in 1945.\n\nIn 1950 the Boston Bahá'í Center was established at 116 Commonwealth Avenue and a regional conference was held August 1951 in Fritchburg with Bahá'ís from the region and beyond. In March/April 1952 the Bahá'í Spiritual Assembly of Boston was interviewed for the show \"Our Believing World\" on station WBZ-TV.\n\nGuy Murchie (Jr.), (25 January 1907 - 8 July 1997,) the son of Ethel A. and Guy Murchie Sr. Sr Murchie was close to President Theodore Roosevelt such that while sitting as president Theodore Roosevelt and his wife attended Guy Jr.'s christening. Guy Jr was raised as an Episcopalian, attended Kent School, which at the time was just \"for Boys\", graduated from Harvard in 1929. Murchie's interest in the Bahá'í Faith began when he was tasked with writing an article about the Bahá'í House of Worship at Wilmette, Illinois around 1938, and then officially joined the religion 1939. He had been impressed with the unique qualities of the temple being a blend of east and west styles, and extended his interest when his insights of the biological unity of humanity was raised to a spiritual affirmation. In 1946 Murchie and then wife Barbara Cooney moved to Pepperell, Massachusetts and worked with the high school. though Cooney and Murchie divorced in 1947. In 1954 Murchie toured Iran visiting several sites holy to Bahá'ís. Diary notes of his travels became the basis of a series of articles in the 1960s and later. But starting in 1955 he began to be more public with his choice of religion - several news stories in the wider media noted it which were closely followed by Bahá'ís. However it wasn't until the passing of his father in 1958 that he became even more public - not least was his own public statement in 1958 in the \"Chicago Tribune\" \"I am a Bahá'í\".\n\nIn 1960 Hand of the Cause, a prominent and renowned Bahá'í, Amatu'l-Baha Ruhiyyih Khanum visited the Boston Bahá'í community and offered several talks during her visit.\n\nThe Harvard Crimson's first article noting the religion seems to have been concerning the Bahá'í persecution in Morocco, followed by notice of Harvard Bahá'ís attending the first Bahá'í World Congress, both in 1963, including Sam McClellan, nephew of Albert Vail.\n\nIn 1965 the first assembly is noted in Fitchburg.\n\nIn 1966 another regional conference held.\n\nIn 1967 the Boston Bahá'ís move their Center to 40 St. Botolph Street.\n\nBoston College had a class on the religion circa 1968.\n\nQuiet since 1963, the Harvard Crimson's next mention of the religion was in 1970. It was followed up in 1971 and 1973.\n\nA number of Portsmouth New Hampshire Bahá'ís - Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Milden with children Steve and Laugel, Elizabeth Frazier and Ruth Silva - left to attend a conference of Bahá'ís in South Carolina in Spring 1970 right at the beginning of a period of intense growth of the religion there.\n\nLocal Unitarian Universalist held a meeting on the religion in 1971 and Dwight W. Allen, then of the University of Massachusetts School of Education, was among speakers on the religion.\n\nIn 1974 local 'Old Ipswich Days' fair of Lowell, Massachusetts had Bahá'í participants, while Bahá'ís Seals and Crofts played at the Boston Music Hall in March.\n\nIn 1977 the Boston Bahá'í Center established a lending library as well as regular programming for children and collective activities to promote awareness of the religion.\n\nCirca 1983 the Harvard-Radcliffe Bahá'í Association (college club) was noted having 12 members. The club was more profiled in 1987.\n\nIn 1986 the city council of Cambridge and Mayor released a proclamation recommending that the whole city read and take to heart: The Promise of World Peace, written by the Universal House of Justice, then and current head of the religion. An article also ran in \"The Heights\" profiling a college student from Iran at Boston College, and a campus meeting about the religion.\n\nIn 1988 the national assembly of the United States picked Boston among its four foci for expansion of the religion and a conference of some 800 Bahá'ís gathered.\n\nIn 1990 the Boston Bahá'ís move their Center to 495 Columbus Avenue and it is moved again in 1993 to its current location at 595 Albany Street.\n\nIn the 1990s Bahá'ís were occasionally noted commenting on things at Harvard. before again being profiled about the persecution in Iran. In 2002 Bahá'í words were included in a 9-11 commemoration on campus. One student who had converted in high school during a year abroad in the Czech Republic was profiled at Harvard in 2004. In 2005 the Baha'i association co-sponsored \"Belief in Action\", a day devoted to service projects. and supported interfaith discussions. Without referencing the Bahá'í club, the campus groups turned out for support of a \"free Iran\" in 2006. and noted Bahá'í Institute for Higher Education related issues. Bahá'ís were noted as Abrahamic in 2006. The club was again profiled in 2007 when it was only six members and two over seas though it still supported interfaith events. Rainn Wilson's support of BIHE related events was then noted on campus.\n\nFrom 1996 to the present the Greater Boston Bahá'í community adopted a systematic approach to grassroots community development taking root in Bahá'í communities all over the world, based around four core activities: study circles, children's classes, junior youth groups, and devotional meetings.\n\nIn 2008 the Boston Bahá'í community participated in the Stamford, Connecticut regional conferences convened by the Universal House of Justice. Boston University and MIT were among the cities of a campaign about the barriers to college education, to which BIHE was a response, in Iran in 2011-2012. A youth regional conference was also held in 2013.\n\nThere is no county approaching 1% Bahá'ís in the region but there are more Bahá'ís per capita in southern New Hampshire, less in Massachusetts, and least in Rhode Island. Within that broad pattern there are significant variations - counties where the county level per capita count of Bahá'ís is several times above or below the average. In Franklin County, Massachusetts and Hampshire County, Massachusetts there are 5x higher concentration of Bahá'ís than that state's average, and down to Bristol County, Massachusetts and Plymouth County, Massachusetts at about half the average. On one end of the greater area, for Rhode Island, per capita Bahá'í counts range from a bit above Rhode Island average in Newport, Rhode Island, to a low in Bristol County, Rhode Island at half that state's average. And on the other end of the greater area in southern New Hampshire, per capita Bahá'í counts range from a high in Belknap County, New Hampshire to a low of near a third of that in Rockingham County, New Hampshire.\n\nIn Massachusetts, in addition to Boston, today there are Local Spiritual Assemblies, the local administrative body, in Brookline, Cambridge, Malden, Medford, Newton, Somerville, Waltham, and Watertown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37070600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37070600", "title": "Bakka, Lebanon", "text": "Bakka, Lebanon\n\nBakka, Bekka or Beka () is a village and municipality situated east of Beirut in the Rashaya District of the Beqaa Governorate in Lebanon. The population of the village is Sunni.\n\nThe Wadi Bakka or Wadi Bekka runs alongside the village. The wadi was the scene of the Battle of Wadi Bakka where a Druze uprising was put down by Ibrahim Pasha of Egypt during the 1838 Druze revolt.\n\nThere are the ruins of a Roman temple in the village that are included in a group of Temples of Mount Hermon. George Taylor classified it as a prostylos temple and noted that the north and south walls remained standing and the podium floor had survived. The site has been heavily damaged by local construction of houses over the site. The temple featured an underground crypt that was accessible via one of the houses that had been built over it.\n\nGeorge Taylor divided up the Temples of Lebanon into three groups, one group of Temples of the Beqaa Valley lies north of the road from Beirut to Damascus. Second, there is the group in the area south of the same road, including the Wadi al-Taym and the western flank of Mount Hermon. Third, the group in the area west of a line drawn along the ridge of Mount Lebanon. There are relatively few temples along Lebanon's coastal plain. The Temples of Mount Hermon in Taylor's second group included Bakka and Ain Harcha, Aaiha, Deir El Aachayer, Dekweh, Yanta, Hebbariye, Ain Libbaya, Nebi Safa, Aaqbe, Khirbet El-Knese, Mejdal Anjar, Mdoukha.\n\nEdward Robinson suggested that word \"bakka' could have derived from the later Arabic meaning of \"crowd\". Others have linked it to the Hebrew word \"bikha\" meaning \"plain\".\n\n"}
{"id": "67129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67129", "title": "Carlos Castaneda", "text": "Carlos Castaneda\n\nCarlos Castaneda (December 25, 1925April 27, 1998) was an American author with a Ph.D. in anthropology.\n\nStarting with \"The Teachings of Don Juan\" in 1968, Castaneda wrote a series of books that describe his training in shamanism, particularly with a group whose lineage descended from the Toltecs. The books, narrated in the first person, relate his experiences under the tutelage of a man that Castaneda claimed was a Yaqui \"Man of Knowledge\" named don Juan Matus. His 12 books have sold more than 28 million copies in 17 languages. Critics have suggested that they are works of fiction; supporters claim the books are either true or at least valuable works of philosophy.\n\nCastaneda withdrew from public view in 1973, living in a large house in Westwood, California from 1973 until his death in 1998, with three colleagues whom he called \"Fellow Travellers of Awareness.\" He founded Cleargreen, an organization that promotes \"Tensegrity\", which Castaneda described as the modern version of the \"magical passes\" of the shamans of ancient Mexico.\n\nCastaneda moved to the United States in the early 1950s and became a naturalized citizen on June 21, 1957. He was educated at UCLA (B.A. 1962; Ph.D. 1973). Castaneda married Margaret Runyan in Mexico in 1960, according to Runyan's memoirs. Castaneda is listed on the birth certificate of Runyan's son C.J. Castaneda as his father even though his biological father was a different man. It is unclear whether Carlos and Margaret were divorced in 1960, 1973, or not at all, and his death certificate even stated he had never been married.\n\nCastaneda's first three books – \"\"; \"A Separate Reality\"; and \"Journey to Ixtlan\" – were written while he was an anthropology student at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). He wrote these books as his research log describing his apprenticeship with a traditional \"Man of Knowledge\" identified as \"don Juan Matus\", allegedly a Yaqui Indian from northern Mexico. Castaneda was awarded his bachelor's and doctoral degrees based on the work described in these books.\n\nIn 1974 his fourth book, \"Tales of Power\", was published and chronicled the end of his apprenticeship under the tutelage of Matus. Castaneda continued to be popular with the reading public with subsequent publications that unfolded further aspects of his training with don Juan.\n\nCastaneda wrote that don Juan recognized him as the new \"nagual\", or leader of a party of seers of his lineage. Matus also used the term \"nagual\" to signify that part of perception which is in the realm of the unknown yet still reachable by man, implying that, for his own party of seers, Matus was a connection to that unknown. Castaneda often referred to this unknown realm as \"nonordinary reality.\"\n\nThe term \"nagual\" has been used by anthropologists to mean a shaman or sorcerer who claims to be able to change into an animal form, or to metaphorically \"shift\" into another form through magic rituals, shamanism and experiences with psychoactive drugs (e.g. peyote and jimson weed).\n\nWhile Castaneda was a well-known cultural figure, he rarely appeared in public forums. He was the subject of a cover article in the March 5, 1973 issue of \"Time\" which described him as \"an enigma wrapped in a mystery wrapped in a tortilla\". There was controversy when it was revealed that Castaneda may have used a surrogate for his cover portrait. When confronted by correspondent Sandra Burton about discrepancies in his personal history, Castaneda responded: \"To ask me to verify my life by giving you my statistics ... is like using science to validate sorcery.\" Following that interview, Castaneda completely retired from public view.\n\nScholars have debated \"whether Castaneda actually served as an apprentice to the alleged Yaqui sorcerer don Juan Matus or if he invented the whole odyssey.\" Castaneda's books are classified as non-fiction although they have been criticized as fictional. In two books, \"Castaneda's Journey: The Power and the Allegory\" (Capra Press, 1976) and \"The Don Juan Papers\" (Ross-Erickson, 1981), author and Castaneda critic Richard de Mille intimated that Don Juan was imaginary, although de Mille's critiques have also been questioned. Walter Shelburne contends that \"the Don Juan chronicle cannot be a literally true account.\" Other critics remain agnostic, contending that there is no proof either side of the matter.\n\nIn the 1990s, Castaneda once again began appearing in public to promote Tensegrity, which was described in promotional materials as \"the modernized version of some movements called magical passes developed by Indian shamans who lived in Mexico in times prior to the Spanish conquest.\" \n\nCastaneda, along with Carol Tiggs, Florinda Donner-Grau and Taisha Abelar, created Cleargreen Incorporated in 1995. The organization's stated purpose is \"carrying out the instruction and publication of Tensegrity\". Tensegrity seminars, books, and other merchandise were sold through Cleargreen.\n\nCastaneda died on April 27, 1998 in Los Angeles due to complications from hepatocellular cancer. There was no public service; Castaneda was cremated and the ashes were sent to Mexico. His death was unknown to the outside world until nearly two months later, on 19 June 1998, when an obituary entitled \"A Hushed Death for Mystic Author Carlos Castaneda\" by staff writer J. R. Moehringer appeared in the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nFour months after Castaneda's death, C. J. Castaneda, also known as Adrian Vashon, whose birth certificate shows Carlos Castaneda as his father, challenged Castaneda's will in probate court. C.J. challenged its authenticity. The challenge was ultimately unsuccessful. Carlos' death certificate states metabolic encephalopathy for 72hours prior to his death, yet the will was purportedly signed 48hours before Castaneda's death.\n\nAfter Castaneda stepped away from public view in 1973, he bought a large multi-dwelling property in Los Angeles which he shared with some of his followers. Among those who lived there were Taisha Abelar (formerly Maryann Simko) and Florinda Donner-Grau (formerly Regine Thal). Like Castaneda, Taisha Abelar, and Florinda Donner-Grau were students of anthropology at UCLA. Each went on to write books that explored the experience of being followers of Castaneda's teachings from a feminist perspective. Cf. \"Related Authors\"\n\nAround the time Castaneda died in April 1998, his companions Donner-Grau, Abelar and Patricia Partin informed friends they were leaving on a long journey. Amalia Marquez (also known as Talia Bey) and Tensegrity instructor Kylie Lundahl also left Los Angeles. Weeks later, Partin's red Ford Escort was found abandoned in Death Valley.\n\nLuis Marquez, the brother of Talia Bey, went to police in 1999 over his sister's disappearance, but was unable to convince them that it merited investigation.\n\nIn 2006, Partin's sun-bleached skeleton was discovered by a pair of hikers in Death Valley's Panamint Dunes area and was identified by DNA testing. The investigating authorities ruled Partin's death as undetermined.\n\nSince his death, Carol Tiggs, a colleague of Castaneda, has spoken at workshops throughout the world, including at Ontario, California in 1998, Sochi, Russia in 2015 and Merida, Yucatan in 2016. Tiggs had the longest association with Castaneda and is written about in some of his books. Today, she serves as a consultant for Cleargreen.\n\nAlthough Castaneda's account of the Teaching of Don Juan were initially well-received as non-fiction works of ethnography, the books are now widely regarded as works of fiction.\n\nAt first, and with the backing of academic qualifications and the UCLA anthropological department, Castaneda's work was mostly praised by reviewers. Edmund Leach praised book. Anthropologist E. H. Spicer offered a somewhat mixed review of \"The Teachings of Don Juan\", highlighting Castaneda's expressive prose and his vivid depiction of his relationship with Don Juan. However, Spicer noted that the events described in the book were not consistent with other ethnographic accounts of Yaqui cultural practices, concluding it was unlikely that Don Juan had ever participated in Yaqui group life. Spicer also stated:\n\nIn a series of articles, R. Gordon Wasson, the ethnobotanist who made psychoactive mushrooms famous, similarly praised Castaneda's work, while expressing doubts regarding the accuracy of some of the claims.\nAn early unpublished review by anthropologist Weston La Barre was more critical. La Barre questioned the book's accuracy, calling it a \"pseudo-profound deeply vulgar pseudo-ethnography.\" The review, initially commissioned by The New York Times Review of Books, was rejected and replaced by a more positive review from a different anthropologist.\n\nLater reviews were more critical, with several critics positing that the books were fabrications. Beginning in 1976, Richard de Mille published a series of criticisms that uncovered inconsistencies in Castaneda's field notes, as well as several instances of apparent plagiarism. Later, anthropologists specializing in Yaqui Indian culture, such as Jane Holden Kelley, questioned the accuracy of Castaneda's work. Other criticisms of Castaneda's work include the total lack of Yaqui vocabulary or terms for any of his experiences, and his refusal to defend himself against the accusation that he received his PhD from UCLA through deception. Stephen C. Thomas notes that in her book \"With Good Heart: Yaqui Beliefs and Ceremonies in Pascua Village\", Muriel Thayer Painter gives examples of Yaqui vocabulary associated with spirituality: \"morea\", an equivalent to the Spanish brujo; \"saurino\", used to describe persons with the gift of divination; and \"seataka\", or spiritual power, a word which is \"fundamental to Yaqui thought and life.\" Thomas further states:\n\nJohn Dedrick, a Protestant missionary who lived among the Yaqui Indians of Vicam, Sonora, from 1940 to 1979, stated in his letter of May 23, 1989 that:\n\nhe had not been to the Rio Yaqui river, or that there is no terminology in the Yaqui language for any of the instructions and explanations that \"Don Juan\" was giving it to him [Castaneda].\n\nClement Meighan and Stephen C. Thomas, point out that the books largely, and for the most part, do not describe Yaqui culture at all with its emphasis on Catholic upbringing and conflict with the Federal State of Mexico, but rather focus on the international movements and life of Don Juan who was described in the books as traveling and having many connections, and abodes, in the Southwestern United States (Arizona), Northern Mexico, and Oaxaca. Don Juan was described in the books as a shaman steeped in a mostly lost Toltec philosophy and decidedly anti-Catholic.\n\nA March 5, 1973 \"Time\" article by Sandra Burton, looking at both sides of the controversy, stated:\n\nDavid Silverman sees value in the work even while considering it fictional. In \"Reading Castaneda\" he describes the apparent deception as a critique of anthropology field work in general – a field that relies heavily on personal experience, and necessarily views other cultures through a lens. According to Silverman, not only the descriptions of peyote trips but also the fictional nature of the work are meant to place doubt on other works of anthropology.\n\nDonald Wieve cites Castaneda to explain the insider/outsider problem as it relates to mystical experiences, while acknowledging the fictional nature of Castaneda's work.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8637688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8637688", "title": "Cherry Hill Seminary", "text": "Cherry Hill Seminary\n\nCherry Hill Seminary provides higher education and practical training in Pagan ministry, as the first graduate-level education for Pagan ministry in the world. Cherry Hill Seminary offers online distance-learning classes, regional workshops, and intensive retreats.\n\nCherry Hill Seminary is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization under the laws of the United States, offering master's-level degrees under authority of the state of South Carolina. Cherry Hill's business office is located in Columbia, South Carolina.\n\nThe seminary was founded in the early 1990s by Kirk White, Cat Chapin-Bishop and Laura Wildman-Hanlon of Vermont's Church of the Sacred Earth. Classes were conducted first by mail, and then brought online in 2000. The seminary was granted 501(c)3 tax-exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service in March 2007.\n\nWhite recruited nonprofit consultant and Cherry Hill Seminary student Holli Emore to serve as the chair of the first working board of directors, which began meeting in January 2007. At the end of that year, Emore became the seminary’s first executive director, and the seminary relocated its business operations and incorporation to South Carolina. By 2012, the faculty had grown to sixty educators, most with terminal degrees.\n\nThe master's program was announced in July 2009. In fall of 2010, 38 students were matriculated into either a master's or a certificate program, and many more took courses outside of the formal programs.\n\nCherry Hill Seminary granted its first Master of Divinity degree in Pagan pastoral counseling to Sandra Lee Harris of Sacred Well Congregation in May, 2012. Evidence of that degree was submitted to the Association of Professional Chaplains as part of the recipient's application for evaluation of theological equivalency by the Board of Chaplaincy Certification, Inc. in lieu of a graduate degree from an accredited seminary. On November 1, 2012, BCCI notified the recipient that her educational credentials had been accepted.\n\nCherry Hill Seminary has been granted an official religious exemption from South Carolina requirements for educational institutions, meaning it can legally grant Master of Divinity degrees.\n\nCherry Hill Seminary will seek accreditation from the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC), a process which can take several years.\n\nCourses include topics in ethics, religious history, ministry, leadership, chaplaincy, ritual, spirituality and formation, social justice and more. Registered students receive access to an online classroom for course content, discussion and assignments. Most courses hold live meetings on Skype.\n<br>\n\nMaster's degrees include: Master of Pagan Studies; and Master of Divinity, with areas of focus corresponding to the Department of Ministry, Advocacy and Leadership, Department of Pagan Pastoral Counseling and Chaplaincy, or Department of Theology and Religious History.<br>\n\nSeveral certificate programs respond to the varying interests of those who do not need a graduate degree, or who seek specific training in addition to their existing degree, for example, in environmental leadership. <br>\n\nInsights short courses are for anyone in the public and last only four weeks, addressing specific topics, often on popular subjects or a particular skill. \n<br>\n\n<br>\nThe Seminary is gradually adding self-directed asynchronous short courses. \n<br>\nPagan Life Academy is a series of eight print lessons (not correspondence) developed especially for incarcerated Pagans and ministers working with Pagans in correctional facilities.\n<br>\nThe Community Ministry Certificate is a non-professional 15-month asynchronous self-study with an assigned faculty mentor. The first CMC graduates were awarded their certificates in spring of 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1822419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1822419", "title": "Christian emigration", "text": "Christian emigration\n\nThe phenomenon of large-scale migration of Christians is the main reason why Christians' share of the population has been declining in many countries. Many Muslim countries have witnessed disproportionately high emigration rates among their Christian minorities for several generations. Today, most Middle Eastern people in the United States are Christians, and the majority of Arabs living outside the Arab World are Arab Christians.\n\nPush factors motivating Christians to emigrate include religious discrimination, persecution, and cleansing. Pull factors include prospects of upward mobility as well as joining relatives abroad.\n\nThe majority of Arabs living outside the Arab World are Arab Christians. Christians have emigrated from the Middle East, a phenomenon that has been attributed to various causes included economic factors, political and military conflict, and feelings of insecurity or isolation among minority Christian populations. The higher rate of emigration among Christians, compared to other religious groups, has also been attributed to their having stronger support networks available abroad, in the form of existing emigrant communities.\n\nAs with most diaspora Arabs, a substantial proportion of the Egyptian diaspora consists of Arab Christians. The Copts have been emigrating from Egypt both to improve their economic situation and to escape systematic harassment and persecution in their homeland.\n\nChristians and other religious minorities make up a disproportionately high share of the Iranian diaspora.\n\nFollowing the Iraq War, the Christian population of Iraq has collapsed. Of the nearly 1 million Assyro-Chaldean Christians, most have emigrated to the United States, Canada, Australia and within some of the 28 member states of the European Union and most of the rest concentrated within the northern Kurdish enclave of Iraqi Kurdistan. With continuing insurgency, Iraqi Christians are under constant threat or radical Islamic violence.\n\nSince the United States-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and the resulting breakdown of law and order in that country, many Syriac speaking Assyrians and other Christians have fled the country, taking refuge in Syria, Jordan and further afield. Their percentage of the population has declined from 12% in 1948 (4.8 million population), to 7% in 1987 (20 million) and 6% in 2003 (27 million). Despite Assyrians making up only 3% of Iraq's population, on October 2005, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reported of the 700,000 Iraqis who took refuge in Syria between October 2003 and March 2005, 36% were \"Iraqi Christians.\"\n\nLebanon has experienced a large migration of Lebanese Christians for many generations. There are more Lebanese people living outside of Lebanon (8.6-14 million), than within (4.3 million). The majority of the diaspora population consists of Lebanese Christians; however, there are some who are Muslim, Druze, or Jewish. They trace their origin to several waves of Christian emigration, starting with the exodus that followed the 1860 Lebanon conflict in Ottoman Syria.\n\nUnder the current Lebanese nationality law, diaspora Lebanese do not have an automatic right of return to Lebanon. Due to varying degrees of assimilation and high degree of interethnic marriages, most diaspora Lebanese have not passed on the Arabic language to their children, while still maintaining a Lebanese ethnic identity.\n\nThe Lebanese Civil War has further fed the higher Christian emigration rate. Higher Muslim birthrates, the presence of Palestinians in Lebanon and Syrian migrant workers have contributed to reducing the Christian proportion of the Lebanese population. Lebanese Christians still remain culturally and politically prominent, forming 35-40% of the population. Since the end of the Lebanese Civil War, Muslim emigrants have outnumbered Christians, but the latter remain somewhat over-represented compared to their proportion of the population.\n\nIn the Palestinian National Authority, there has been considerable emigration and Palestinian Christians are disproportionately represented within the Palestinian diaspora. Most of Gazan Christians have fled the Gaza Strip following the Hamas takeover in 2007, largely relocating to the West Bank.\n\nThere are almost as many Syrian people living outside of Syria (15 million), as within (18 million). The majority of the diaspora population consists of Syrian Christians. They trace their origin to several waves of Christian emigration, starting with the exodus from the time of the Ottoman Syria.\nUnder the current nationality law, diaspora Syrians do not have an automatic right of return to Syria. Due to varying degrees of assimilation and high degree of interethnic marriages, most diaspora Syrians have not passed on the Arabic language to their children, while still maintaining a Syrian ethnic identity.\n\nFollowing the eruption of Syrian civil war in 2011, Christians have been targeted by militant Islamists, and hence have become a major component of the Syrian refugees.\n\nIn FY 2016, when the US dramatically increased the number of refugees admitted from Syria, the US let in 12,587 refugees from the country, with 99% being Muslims (with few Shia Muslims admitted). Less than 1% where Christian and according to the Pew Research Center analysis of State Department Refugee Processing Center data. The religious affiliaiton of Syria's 17.2 million people in 2016 was approximately 74% Sunni Islam, 13% Alawi, Ismaili and Shia Islam, 10% Christian and 3% Druze.. The population has declined by more than 6 million, refugees, due to the Civil War.\n\nOriginally, most emigrants from what is now Turkey were Christian subjects of the Ottoman Empire, including Greek refugees. Today, emigration from Turkey consists primarily of Muslims.\n\nThe percentage of Christians in Turkey fell from 19 percent in 1914 to 2.5 percent in 1927, due to events which had a significant impact on the country's demographic structure, such as the Armenian Genocide, the massacre of 500,000 Greeks and 375,000 Assyrian Christians, population exchange between Greece and Turkey, and the emigration of Christians (such as Levantines, Greeks, Armenians etc.) to foreign countries (mostly in Europe, the Americas, Lebanon and Syria) that actually began in the late 19th century and gained pace in the first quarter of the 20th century, especially during World War I and after the Turkish War of Independence. Ottoman censuses undercounted the number of Christians which was closer to 24-5% of the population: 4.3 million not 3 million as reported. Today there are more than 160,000 people of different Christian denominations, representing less than 0.2 percent of Turkey's population,\n\nChristians have also fled from India but for their own reasons and in very few numbers, as India has been considered as one of safest place for them in South Asia. Moreover India has been one of the favourite tourist destination of the people of United States, Europe in south asia. However, theirs no legal confirmation that claims any kind of violence against Christians. This was also seen that Indian people celebrates Christmas festival with full enthusiasm and love.\n\nChristians have also fled Pakistan, especially in response to the application of Islamic blasphemy laws.\n\nChristians have also fled China, especially in response to waves of religious persecution has been a contributory factors in emigration from China since it is a communist state, and its declared state atheism.\n\nChristians have also fled North Korea, especially in response to waves of religious persecution has been a contributory factors in emigration from North Korea since it is a communist state, and its declared state atheism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80558", "title": "Chrysothemis", "text": "Chrysothemis\n\nChrysothemis or Khrysothemis (; , \"golden justice\"), is a name ascribed to several characters in Greek mythology.\n\n\"Female:\"\n\"Male:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38070648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38070648", "title": "Dakshinayana", "text": "Dakshinayana\n\nDakshinayana () is the six-month period between Summer solstice and Winter solstice, when the sun travels towards the south on the celestial sphere. Dakshinayana begins on Karka Sankranti or July 16, as it marks the transition of the Sun into Karka rashi (Cancer).\n\nIt marks the end of the six-month Uttarayana period of Hindu calendar and the beginning of Dakshinayana, which itself ends at Makar Sankranti and the Uttarayan period begins.\n\nAccording to the Puranas, Dakshinayana marks the period when the gods and goddesses are in their celestial sleep.\n"}
{"id": "26983106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26983106", "title": "Dallewalia Misl", "text": "Dallewalia Misl\n\nThe Dallewalia Misl, was founded by Sardar Gulab Singh khatri. it had a strength of 9,000 regular horsemen.\n\nThe Misl was founded by Sardar Gulab Singh (d. 1759), who belonged to the brave family which trained Guru Gobind Singh in Shastarvidya notable among whom were Sardar Bajjar Singh Rathore. Sardar gulab Singh was the descendant of Royal House of Marwar and belonged to Udaane Shakha Of Rathore Rajputs. . The Misl ruled in the Manjke region of Punjab's Rahon, Phillaur, Bilga, Nakodar areas.\n\nAfter the death of Sardar Gulab Singh in 1759, his Successors became Tara Singh Ghaiba (from whom Maharaja Ranjit Singh received leadership training) (1717–1807) & his step brothers Man Singh, Dan Singh and Sujan Singh Badesha ruled and further expanded his Misl up to Ambala (Haryana region). With other Sikh Sardars, he Sacked Kasur city of Pathans and joined the Sikh Sardars in the sack of Sirhind city in 1764. in 1807 after the death of Tara Singh Ghaiba his territories were annexed by Ranjit Singh. The Dallewalia and Nishanwalia Jathas were stationed at Amritsar to protect the holy city.\n"}
{"id": "40570784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40570784", "title": "Dannah Gresh", "text": "Dannah Gresh\n\nDannah Gresh (born 1967) is a best-selling Christian author and public speaker on the topic of sexual theology and Christian parenting. She uses social science and medical research to defend a conservative position on relationships and gender. Gresh's TEDTalk proposed that the cultural value of tolerance be equally applied to those choosing to abstain from sex until marriage. She is a frequent guest on Christian mediums such as Focus on the Family, FamilyLife Today, and Revive Our Hearts.\n\nGresh is the creator of Secret Keeper Girl, a connecting event for 8-12 year old girls and their mothers. The tour makes stops in about 120 cities nationwide each year, during which 20-something women and seasoned moms teach modesty and true beauty through interactive experiences. Dannah also offers an event for mothers who are seeking to connect to their teen daughter called Pure Freedom. In 2017, she partnered with her husband Bob Gresh to develop Born To Be Brave, a father/son connection experience. Over 500,000 have attended her live events, and her parent/child published curriculum has been used for over 4 million at-home experiences.\n\nGresh is the author of over 30 books. \"And the Bride Wore White: Seven Secrets to Sexual Purity\" and \"Lies Young Women Believe: And the Truth that Sets Them Free\" which she co-authored with Nancy Leigh DeMoss are her best-sellers.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Denotes best-selling status\n"}
{"id": "8091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8091", "title": "Douglas Adams", "text": "Douglas Adams\n\nDouglas Noel Adams (11 March 1952 – 11 May 2001) was an English author, scriptwriter, essayist, humorist, satirist and dramatist.\n\nAdams was author of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", which originated in 1978 as a BBC radio comedy before developing into a \"trilogy\" of five books that sold more than 15 million copies in his lifetime and generated a television series, several stage plays, comics, a computer game, and in 2005 a feature film. Adams's contribution to UK radio is commemorated in The Radio Academy's Hall of Fame.\n\nAdams also wrote \"Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency\" (1987) and \"The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul\" (1988), and co-wrote \"The Meaning of Liff\" (1983), \"The Deeper Meaning of Liff\" (1990), \"Last Chance to See\" (1990), and three stories for the television series \"Doctor Who\"; he also served as script editor for the show's seventeenth season in 1979. A posthumous collection of his works, including an unfinished novel, was published as \"The Salmon of Doubt\" in 2002.\n\nAdams was an advocate for environmentalism and conservation, a lover of fast cars, technological innovation and the Apple Macintosh, and a radical atheist.\n\nAdams was born on 11 March 1952 to Janet (née Donovan; 1927–2016) and Christopher Douglas Adams (1927–1985) in Cambridge. The family moved to the East End of London a few months after his birth, where his sister, Susan, was born three years later. His parents divorced in 1957; Douglas, Susan, and their mother moved to an RSPCA animal shelter in Brentwood, Essex, run by his maternal grandparents.\n\nAdams attended Primrose Hill Primary School in Brentwood. At nine, he passed the entrance exam for Brentwood School. Griff Rhys Jones was a year below him, and he was in the same class as Stuckist artist Charles Thomson. He attended the prep school from 1959 to 1964, then the main school until December 1970. Adams was by age 12 and stopped growing at . His form master, Frank Halford, said Adams's height had made him stand out and that he had been self-conscious about it. His ability to write stories made him well known in the school. He became the only student ever to be awarded a ten out of ten by Halford for creative writing, something he remembered for the rest of his life, particularly when facing writer's block.\n\nSome of his earliest writing was published at the school, such as a report on its photography club in \"The Brentwoodian\" in 1962, or spoof reviews in the school magazine \"Broadsheet\", edited by Paul Neil Milne Johnstone, who later became a character in \"The Hitchhiker's Guide\". He also designed the cover of one issue of the \"Broadsheet\", and had a letter and short story published in \"The Eagle\", the boys' comic, in 1965. A poem entitled \"A Dissertation on the task of writing a poem on a candle and an account of some of the difficulties thereto pertaining\" written by Adams in January 1970, at the age of 17, was discovered in a cupboard at the school in early 2014.\n\nOn the strength of an essay on religious poetry that discussed the Beatles and William Blake, he was awarded an Exhibition in English at St John's College, Cambridge, going up in 1971. He wanted to join the Footlights, an invitation-only student comedy club that has acted as a hothouse for comic talent. He was not elected immediately as he had hoped, and started to write and perform in revues with Will Adams (no relation) and Martin Smith, forming a group called \"Adams-Smith-Adams\", and became a member of the Footlights by 1973. Despite doing very little work—he recalled having completed three essays in three years—he graduated in 1974 with a B.A. in English literature.\n\nAfter leaving university Adams moved back to London, determined to break into TV and radio as a writer. An edited version of the \"Footlights Revue\" appeared on BBC2 television in 1974. A version of the Revue performed live in London's West End led to Adams being discovered by Monty Python's Graham Chapman. The two formed a brief writing partnership, earning Adams a writing credit in episode 45 of \"Monty Python\" for a sketch called \"Patient Abuse\". The pair also co-wrote the \"Marilyn Monroe\" sketch which appeared on the soundtrack album of \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\". Adams is one of only two people other than the original Python members to get a writing credit (the other being Neil Innes).\n\nAdams had two brief appearances in the fourth series of \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\". At the beginning of episode 42, \"The Light Entertainment War\", Adams is in a surgeon's mask (as Dr. Emile Koning, according to on-screen captions), pulling on gloves, while Michael Palin narrates a sketch that introduces one person after another but never gets started. At the beginning of episode 44, \"Mr. Neutron\", Adams is dressed in a pepper-pot outfit and loads a missile onto a cart driven by Terry Jones, who is calling for scrap metal (\"Any old iron...\"). The two episodes were broadcast in November 1974. Adams and Chapman also attempted non-Python projects, including \"Out of the Trees\".\n\nAt this point Adams's career stalled; his writing style was unsuited to the then-current style of radio and TV comedy. To make ends meet he took a series of odd jobs, including as a hospital porter, barn builder, and chicken shed cleaner. He was employed as a bodyguard by a Qatari family, who had made their fortune in oil.\n\nDuring this time Adams continued to write and submit sketches, though few were accepted. In 1976 his career had a brief improvement when he wrote and performed \"Unpleasantness at Brodie's Close\" at the Edinburgh Fringe festival. By Christmas, work had dried up again, and a depressed Adams moved to live with his mother. The lack of writing work hit him hard and low confidence became a feature of Adams's life; \"I have terrible periods of lack of confidence [..] I briefly did therapy, but after a while I realised it was like a farmer complaining about the weather. You can't fix the weather – you just have to get on with it\".\n\nSome of Adams's early radio work included sketches for \"The Burkiss Way\" in 1977 and \"The News Huddlines\". He also wrote, again with Chapman, 20 February 1977 episode of \"Doctor on the Go\", a sequel to the \"Doctor in the House\" television comedy series. After the first radio series of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide\" became successful, Adams was made a BBC radio producer, working on \"Week Ending\" and a pantomime called \"Black Cinderella Two Goes East\". He left after six months to become the script editor for \"Doctor Who\".\n\nIn 1979, Adams and John Lloyd wrote scripts for two half-hour episodes of \"Doctor Snuggles\": \"The Remarkable Fidgety River\" and \"The Great Disappearing Mystery\" (episodes eight and twelve). John Lloyd was also co-author of two episodes from the original \"Hitchhiker\" radio series (\"Fit the Fifth\" and \"Fit the Sixth\", also known as \"Episode Five\" and \"Episode Six\"), as well as \"The Meaning of Liff\" and \"The Deeper Meaning of Liff\".\n\n\"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" was a concept for a science-fiction comedy radio series pitched by Adams and radio producer Simon Brett to BBC Radio 4 in 1977. Adams came up with an outline for a pilot episode, as well as a few other stories (reprinted in Neil Gaiman's book \"\") that could be used in the series.\nAccording to Adams, the idea for the title occurred to him while he lay drunk in a field in Innsbruck, Austria, gazing at the stars. He was carrying a copy of the \"Hitch-hiker's Guide to Europe\", and it occurred to him that \"somebody ought to write a \"Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\"\". He later said that the constant repetition of this anecdote had obliterated his memory of the actual event.\n\nDespite the original outline, Adams was said to make up the stories as he wrote. He turned to John Lloyd for help with the final two episodes of the first series. Lloyd contributed bits from an unpublished science fiction book of his own, called \"GiGax\". Very little of Lloyd's material survived in later adaptations of \"Hitchhiker's\", such as the novels and the TV series. The TV series was based on the first six radio episodes, and sections contributed by Lloyd were largely re-written.\n\nBBC Radio 4 broadcast the first radio series weekly in the UK in March and April 1978. The series was distributed in the United States by National Public Radio. Following the success of the first series, another episode was recorded and broadcast, which was commonly known as the Christmas Episode. A second series of five episodes was broadcast one per night, during the week of 21–25 January 1980.\n\nWhile working on the radio series (and with simultaneous projects such as \"The Pirate Planet\") Adams developed problems keeping to writing deadlines that got worse as he published novels. Adams was never a prolific writer and usually had to be forced by others to do any writing. This included being locked in a hotel suite with his editor for three weeks to ensure that \"So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish\" was completed. He was quoted as saying, \"I love deadlines. I love the whooshing noise they make as they go by.\" Despite the difficulty with deadlines, Adams wrote five novels in the series, published in 1979, 1980, 1982, 1984, and 1992.\n\nThe books formed the basis for other adaptations, such as three-part comic book adaptations for each of the first three books, an interactive text-adventure computer game, and a photo-illustrated edition, published in 1994. This latter edition featured a 42 Puzzle designed by Adams, which was later incorporated into paperback covers of the first four \"Hitchhiker's\" novels (the paperback for the fifth re-used the artwork from the hardback edition).\n\nIn 1980, Adams began attempts to turn the first \"Hitchhiker's\" novel into a film, making several trips to Los Angeles, and working with Hollywood studios and potential producers. The next year, the radio series became the basis for a BBC television mini-series broadcast in six parts. When he died in 2001 in California, he had been trying again to get the movie project started with Disney, which had bought the rights in 1998. The screenplay got a posthumous re-write by Karey Kirkpatrick, and the resulting film was released in 2005.\n\nRadio producer Dirk Maggs had consulted with Adams, first in 1993, and later in 1997 and 2000 about creating a third radio series, based on the third novel in the \"Hitchhiker's\" series. They also discussed the possibilities of radio adaptations of the final two novels in the five-book \"trilogy\". As with the movie, this project was realised only after Adams's death. The third series, \"The Tertiary Phase\", was broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in September 2004 and was subsequently released on audio CD. With the aid of a recording of his reading of \"Life, the Universe and Everything\" and editing, Adams can be heard playing the part of Agrajag posthumously. \"So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish\" and \"Mostly Harmless\" made up the fourth and fifth radio series, respectively (on radio they were titled \"The Quandary Phase\" and \"The Quintessential Phase\") and these were broadcast in May and June 2005, and also subsequently released on Audio CD. The last episode in the last series (with a new, \"more upbeat\" ending) concluded with, \"The very final episode of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" by Douglas Adams is affectionately dedicated to its author.\"\n\nBetween Adams's first trip to Madagascar with Mark Carwardine in 1985, and their series of travels that formed the basis for the radio series and non-fiction book \"Last Chance to See\", Adams wrote two other novels with a new cast of characters. \"Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency\" was published in 1987, and was described by its author as \"a kind of ghost-horror-detective-time-travel-romantic-comedy-epic, mainly concerned with mud, music and quantum mechanics\". It was derived from two Doctor Who serials Adams had written.\n\nA sequel, \"The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul\", was published a year later. This was an entirely original work, Adams's first since \"So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish.\" After the book tour, Adams set off on his round-the-world excursion which supplied him with the material for \"Last Chance to See\".\n\nAdams sent the script for the \"HHGG\" pilot radio programme to the \"Doctor Who\" production office in 1978, and was commissioned to write \"The Pirate Planet\" (see below). He had also previously attempted to submit a potential movie script, called \"Doctor Who and the Krikkitmen\", which later became his novel \"Life, the Universe and Everything\" (which in turn became the third \"Hitchhiker's Guide\" radio series). Adams then went on to serve as script editor on the show for its seventeenth season in 1979. Altogether, he wrote three \"Doctor Who\" serials starring Tom Baker as the Doctor:\n\nThe episodes authored by Adams are some of the few that were not novelised as Adams would not allow anyone else to write them, and asked for a higher price than the publishers were willing to pay. \"Shada\" was later adapted as a novel by Gareth Roberts in 2012 and \"City of Death\" and \"The Pirate Planet\" by James Goss in 2015 and 2017 respectively.\n\nElements of \"Shada\" and \"City of Death\" were reused in Adams's later novel \"Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency\", in particular the character of Professor Chronotis. Big Finish Productions eventually remade \"Shada\" as an audio play starring Paul McGann as the Doctor. Accompanied by partially animated illustrations, it was webcast on the BBC website in 2003, and subsequently released as a two-CD set later that year. An omnibus edition of this version was broadcast on the digital radio station BBC7 on 10 December 2005.\n\nIn the \"Doctor Who\" 2012 Christmas episode \"The Snowmen\", writer Steven Moffat was inspired by a storyline that Adams pitched called \"The Doctor Retires\".\n\nAdams played the guitar left-handed and had a collection of twenty-four left-handed guitars when he died (having received his first guitar in 1964). He also studied piano in the 1960s with the same teacher as Paul Wickens, the pianist who plays in Paul McCartney's band (and composed the music for the 2004–2005 editions of the \"Hitchhiker's Guide\" radio series). Pink Floyd and Procol Harum had important influence on Adams' work.\n\nAdams's official biography shares its name with the song \"Wish You Were Here\" by Pink Floyd. Adams was friends with Pink Floyd guitarist David Gilmour and, on Adams's 42nd birthday, he was invited to make a guest appearance at Pink Floyd's concert of 28 October 1994 at Earls Court in London, playing guitar on the songs \"Brain Damage\" and \"Eclipse\". Adams chose the name for Pink Floyd's 1994 album, \"The Division Bell\", by picking the words from the lyrics to one of its tracks, \"High Hopes\". Gilmour also performed at Adams's memorial service in 2001, and what would have been Adams's 60th birthday party in 2012.\n\nDouglas Adams created an interactive fiction version of \"HHGG\" with Steve Meretzky from Infocom in 1984. In 1986 he participated in a week-long brainstorming session with the Lucasfilm Games team for the game \"\". Later he was also involved in creating \"Bureaucracy\" as a parody of events in his own life.\n\nAdams was a founder-director and Chief Fantasist of The Digital Village, a digital media and Internet company with which he created \"Starship Titanic\", a Codie award-winning and BAFTA-nominated adventure game, which was published in 1998 by Simon & Schuster. Terry Jones wrote the accompanying book, entitled \"Douglas Adams' Starship Titanic\", since Adams was too busy with the computer game to do both. In April 1999, Adams initiated the h2g2 collaborative writing project, an experimental attempt at making \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" a reality, and at harnessing the collective brainpower of the internet community. It was hosted by BBC Online from 2001 to 2011.\n\nIn 1990, Adams wrote and presented a television documentary programme \"Hyperland\" which featured Tom Baker as a \"software agent\" (similar to the assistant pictured in Apple's Knowledge Navigator video of future concepts from 1987), and interviews with Ted Nelson, the co-inventor of hypertext and the person who coined the term. Adams was an early adopter and advocate of hypertext.\n\nAdams described himself as a \"radical atheist\", adding \"radical\" for emphasis so he would not be asked if he meant agnostic. He told American Atheists that this conveyed the fact that he really meant it. He imagined a sentient puddle who wakes up one morning and thinks, \"This is an interesting world I find myself in – an interesting hole I find myself in – fits me rather neatly, doesn't it? In fact it fits me staggeringly well, must have been made to have me in it!\" to demonstrate his view that the fine-tuned Universe argument for God was a fallacy.\n\nHe remained fascinated by religion because of its effect on human affairs. \"I love to keep poking and prodding at it. I've thought about it so much over the years that that fascination is bound to spill over into my writing.\"\n\nThe evolutionary biologist and atheist Richard Dawkins uses Adams's influence to exemplify arguments for non-belief in his 2006 book \"The God Delusion\". Dawkins dedicated the book to Adams, whom he jokingly called \"possibly [my] only convert\" to atheism and wrote on his death that \"Science has lost a friend, literature has lost a luminary, the mountain gorilla and the black rhino have lost a gallant defender.\"\n\nAdams was also an environmental activist who campaigned on behalf of endangered species. This activism included the production of the non-fiction radio series \"Last Chance to See\", in which he and naturalist Mark Carwardine visited rare species such as the kakapo and baiji, and the publication of a tie-in book of the same name. In 1992 this was made into a CD-ROM combination of audiobook, e-book and picture slide show.\n\nAdams and Mark Carwardine contributed the 'Meeting a Gorilla' passage from \"Last Chance to See\" to the book \"The Great Ape Project\". This book, edited by Paola Cavalieri and Peter Singer, launched a wider-scale project in 1993, which calls for the extension of moral equality to include all great apes, human and non-human.\n\nIn 1994, he participated in a climb of Mount Kilimanjaro while wearing a rhino suit for the British charity organisation Save the Rhino International. Puppeteer William Todd-Jones, who had originally worn the suit in the London Marathon to raise money and bring awareness to the group, also participated in the climb wearing a rhino suit; Adams wore the suit while travelling to the mountain before the climb began. About £100,000 was raised through that event, benefiting schools in Kenya and a black rhinoceros preservation programme in Tanzania. Adams was also an active supporter of the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund.\n\nSince 2003, Save the Rhino has held an annual Douglas Adams Memorial Lecture around the time of his birthday to raise money for environmental campaigns.\n\nAdams bought his first word processor in 1982, having considered one as early as 1979. His first purchase was a Nexu. In 1983, when he and Jane Belson went to Los Angeles, he bought a DEC Rainbow. Upon their return to England, Adams bought an Apricot, then a BBC Micro and a Tandy 1000. In \"Last Chance to See\" Adams mentions his Cambridge Z88, which he had taken to Zaire on a quest to find the northern white rhinoceros.\n\nAdams's posthumously published work, \"The Salmon of Doubt\", features several articles by him on the subject of technology, including reprints of articles that originally ran in \"MacUser\" magazine, and in \"The Independent on Sunday\" newspaper. In these Adams claims that one of the first computers he ever saw was a Commodore PET, and that he had \"adored\" his Apple Macintosh (\"or rather my family of however many Macintoshes it is that I've recklessly accumulated over the years\") since he first saw one at Infocom's offices in Boston in 1984.\n\nAdams was a Macintosh user from the time they first came out in 1984 until his death in 2001. He was the first person to buy a Mac in Europe (the second being Stephen Fry – though some accounts differ on this, saying Fry bought his Mac first. Fry claims he was second to Adams). Adams was also an \"Apple Master\", celebrities whom Apple made into spokespeople for its products (others included John Cleese and Gregory Hines). Adams's contributions included a rock video that he created using the first version of iMovie with footage featuring his daughter Polly. The video was available on Adams's .Mac homepage. Adams installed and started using the first release of Mac OS X in the weeks leading up to his death. His very last post to his own forum was in praise of Mac OS X and the possibilities of its Cocoa programming framework. He said it was \"awesome...\", which was also the last word he wrote on his site.\n\nAdams used email to correspond with Steve Meretzky in the early 1980s, during their collaboration on Infocom's version of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\". While living in New Mexico in 1993 he set up another e-mail address and began posting to his own USENET newsgroup, alt.fan.douglas-adams, and occasionally, when his computer was acting up, to the comp.sys.mac hierarchy. Challenges to the authenticity of his messages later led Adams to set up a message forum on his own website to avoid the issue. In 1996, Adams was a keynote speaker at the Microsoft Professional Developers Conference (PDC) where he described the personal computer as being a modelling device. The video of his keynote speech is archived on Channel 9.\nAdams was also a keynote speaker for the April 2001 Embedded Systems Conference in San Francisco, one of the major technical conferences on embedded system engineering.\n\nAdams moved to Upper Street, Islington, in 1981 and to Duncan Terrace, a few minutes' walk away, in the late 1980s.\n\nIn the early 1980s Adams had an affair with novelist Sally Emerson, who was separated from her husband at that time. Adams later dedicated his book \"Life, the Universe and Everything\" to Emerson. In 1981 Emerson returned to her husband, Peter Stothard, a contemporary of Adams's at Brentwood School, and later editor of \"The Times\". Adams was soon introduced by friends to Jane Belson, with whom he later became romantically involved. Belson was the \"lady barrister\" mentioned in the jacket-flap biography printed in his books during the mid-1980s (\"He [Adams] lives in Islington with a lady barrister and an Apple Macintosh\"). The two lived in Los Angeles together during 1983 while Adams worked on an early screenplay adaptation of \"Hitchhiker's\". When the deal fell through, they moved back to London, and after several separations (\"He is currently not certain where he lives, or with whom\") and a broken engagement, they married on 25 November 1991.\n\nAdams and Belson had one daughter together, Polly Jane Rocket Adams, born on 22 June 1994, shortly after Adams turned 42. In 1999 the family moved from London to Santa Barbara, California, where they lived until his death. Following the funeral, Jane Belson and Polly Adams returned to London. Belson died on 7 September 2011 of cancer, aged 59.\n\nAdams died of a heart attack on 11 May 2001, aged 49, after resting from his regular workout at a private gym in Montecito, California. Adams had been due to deliver the commencement address at Harvey Mudd College on 13 May. His funeral was held on 16 May in Santa Barbara. His ashes were placed in Highgate Cemetery in north London in June 2002. A memorial service was held on 17 September 2001 at St Martin-in-the-Fields church, Trafalgar Square, London. This became the first church service broadcast live on the web by the BBC. Video clips of the service are still available on the BBC's website for download.\n\nOne of his last public appearances was a talk given at the University of California, Santa Barbara, \"Parrots, the universe and everything\", recorded days before his death. A full transcript of the talk is available, and the university has made the full video available on YouTube.\n\nTwo days before Adams died, the Minor Planet Center announced the naming of asteroid 18610 Arthurdent. In 2005, the asteroid 25924 Douglasadams was named in his memory.\n\nIn May 2002, \"The Salmon of Doubt\" was published, containing many short stories, essays, and letters, as well as eulogies from Richard Dawkins, Stephen Fry (in the UK edition), Christopher Cerf (in the US edition), and Terry Jones (in the US paperback edition). It also includes eleven chapters of his unfinished novel, \"The Salmon of Doubt\", which was originally intended to become a new Dirk Gently novel, but might have later become the sixth \"Hitchhiker\" novel.\n\nOther events after Adams's death included a webcast production of \"Shada\", allowing the complete story to be told, radio dramatisations of the final three books in the \"Hitchhiker's\" series, and the completion of the film adaptation of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\". The film, released in 2005, posthumously credits Adams as a producer, and several design elements – including a head-shaped planet seen near the end of the film – incorporated Adams's features.\n\nA 12-part radio series based on the Dirk Gently novels was announced in 2007.\n\nBBC Radio 4 also commissioned a third Dirk Gently radio series based on the incomplete chapters of \"The Salmon of Doubt\", and written by Kim Fuller; but this was dropped in favour of a BBC TV series based on the two completed novels. A sixth \"Hitchhiker\" novel, \"And Another Thing...\", by \"Artemis Fowl\" author Eoin Colfer, was released on 12 October 2009 (the 30th anniversary of the first book), published with the support of Adams's estate. A BBC Radio 4 \"Book at Bedtime\" adaptation and an audio book soon followed.\n\nOn 25 May 2001, two weeks after Adams's death, his fans organised a tribute known as Towel Day, which has been observed every year since then.\n\nIn 2011, over 3,000 people took part in a public vote to choose the subjects of People's Plaques in Islington; Adams received 489 votes.\n\nOn 11 March 2013, Adams's 61st birthday was celebrated with an interactive Google Doodle.\n\nIn 2018, John Lloyd presented an hour-long episode of the BBC Radio Four documentary \"Archive on 4\", discussing Adams' private papers, which are held at St John's College, Cambridge. The episode is available online.\n\nA street in São José, Santa Catarina, Brazil is named in Adams' honour.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "37474891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37474891", "title": "Eduardo Herrera Riera", "text": "Eduardo Herrera Riera\n\nEduardo Herrera Riera (September 7, 1927 – October 27, 2012) was the Roman Catholic bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Carora of Venezuela.\n\nOrdained to the priesthood in 1955, he was named bishop in 1965 and retired in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "4293085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4293085", "title": "Gabâ", "text": "Gabâ\n\nGabâ or gabaa, for the people in many parts of the Philippines particularly among Visayans, is the concept of a non-human and non-divine, imminent retribution. A sort of negative karma, it is generally seen as an evil effect on a person because of their wrongdoings or transgressions. The word has later been recycled for translating \"divine retribution\" or \"divine fury\" in the translations of the Bible to many local dialects in the Philippines. It is also translated as nemesis. The opposite of \"Gaba\" is \"Grasya\", literally \"Grace\" in Spanish, which pertains to \"blessings from the Heavens\".\n\nThe gabâ can be characterized through various Cebuano proverbs:\n\n\nThe source of gabâ is not a god or God or an absolute karmic principle, but in the spirits of nature. It must have arisen out of the animism of pre-Spanish Cebuanos. With the coming of Christianity into the Islands, gabâ became \"absorbed\" in the Roman Catholic Church. In-depth examination, however, would show that it is incompatible with Catholic dogma.\n\nGabâ is distinct from \"panghimaraot\" (curse) whereby a transgressed person pronounces a \"maldesyon\" against the transgressor. In \"panghimaraot\", evil is asked to befall on the sinner; with gabâ, evil is sure to befall on the sinner, even if it is not asked. Sometimes Cebuanos blurt out threats of gabâ, \"Gabâ-an ka gyod!\", but it is not taken to mean that gabâ is being asked; it is only a reminder to the transgressor that no one is excluded from it. Sometimes sinners also ask for exclusion in pidgin Spanish: \"Puyra gabâ!\" (Fuera gabâ)\n\nGabâ is not synonymous with the Hindu-Buddhist law of karma: gabâ is only in the negative (a punishment), unlike karma which may be good or bad. Both concepts are known to the Visayan peoples, although gabâ is considered purely indigenous, while karma was historically imported.\n\n\nGabâ is not, strictly speaking, the same as punishment from a godhead, such as the monotheisms' God or the Greek goddess Nemesis: gabâ does not presuppose an Ultimate Being.\n\nIll-doings to one's fellowmen does not alone cause Gaba but actions like wasting food, disrespecting elders, abusing animals, desacrating holy places or objects, cursing God, and destroying \"Nuno sa Punso\" cause Gaba as well. An expression is also common among the Bisaya and Hiligaynon, \"Purya Gaba\" which is said when one walks in an eerie place, this is believed to ward off evil.\n\nSome sociologists believe that Gabâ is one of the causes of the complacency of Cebuanos: because of their belief in it, they prefer to be silent on abuses. It gives hope to the oppressed that someday the abuses will be paid for.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "379618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379618", "title": "Gherasim Luca", "text": "Gherasim Luca\n\nGherasim Luca (; 23 July 1913 – 9 February 1994) was a French-speaking Surrealist theorist and poet. Born Salman Locker in Romania and also known as Salman Locker, Gherashim Luca, Costea Sar, and Petre Malcoci, he regarded himself as an apatrid. His entire post-Second World War work is written in French. He is frequently cited in the works of Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari.\n\nBorn in Bucharest the son of a Jewish tailor, Berl Locker (died 1914), he spoke Yiddish, Romanian, German, and French. During 1938, he traveled frequently to Paris where he was introduced to the Surrealist circles. World War II and the official antisemitism in Romania forced him into local exile. During the short pre-Communist period of Romanian independence, he founded a Surrealist artists group, together with Gellu Naum, Paul Păun, Virgil Teodorescu and Dolfi Trost.\n\nHis first publications, including poems in French followed. He was the inventor of cubomania and, with Dolfi Trost, the author of the statement \"Dialectic of Dialectic\" in 1945. Harassed in Romania and caught while trying to flee the country, the self-called \"étran-juif\" (\"StranJew\") finally left Romania in 1952, and moved to Paris through Israel.\n\nThere he worked among others with Jean Arp, Paul Celan, François Di Dio and Max Ernst, producing numerous collages, drawings, objects, and text-installations. From 1967, his reading sessions took him to places like Stockholm, Oslo, Geneva, New York City, and San Francisco. The 1988 TV-portrait by Raoul Sanglas, \"Comment s'en sortir sans sortir\", made him famous for a larger readership.\n\nIn 1994, he was expelled from his apartment in Montmartre. Luca had spent forty years in France without papers and could not cope. On February 9, at the age of 80, he committed suicide by jumping into the Seine.\n\nLuca initially wrote most of his poetic works in his native Romanian. Two collections of these, \"Inventatorul Iubirii\" and \"Un lup văzut printr-o lupă,\" published in Bucharest in 1945, were translated into English (\"The Inventor of Love and Other Works\") by Julian and Laura Semilian and published by Black Widow Press in 2009.\n\nWith the authorisation of éditions Corti, a forthcoming chapbook of his poems translated by Fiona Sze-Lorrain will be featured in \"Poetry International\", Issue no. 15, Spring 2010.\n\n\nOthers:\n\n\nIn English translation:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38461253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38461253", "title": "Gyanmala Bhajan Khala", "text": "Gyanmala Bhajan Khala\n\nGyānmālā Bhajan Khala (Devanagari: ज्ञानमाला भजन खल:) is a Nepalese hymn society formed in Kathmandu in 1937. It helped to raise awareness against the oppression of the Rana regime (1846-1951), and is also a symbol of the movement for religious freedom in Nepal. \n\nGyānmālā Bhajan Khala mostly performs Buddhist devotional songs. It is based in Swayambhu, Kathmandu, and has chapters across the country and abroad.\n\nGyānmālā Bhajan Khala popularized the singing of bhajans to the accompaniment of the harmonium. This style entered Nepal in the 1880s. The traditional devotional songs sung in the Kathmandu Valley are known as \"dāpā\" or \"dāphā\", and are accompanied by the \"khin\" (double-headed drums) and \"tā\" (small cymbals).\n\nGyānmālā Bhajan Khala was established in the face of state suppression against Buddhism and Nepal Bhasa. The Ranas were harsh against Buddhism and the language of the Newar people, and any religious or literary expression was quashed. Members of Gyānmālā Bhajan Khala were arrested for singing Buddhist hymns in Nepal Bhasa, and their hymn books confiscated. \n\nThe founding of Gyānmālā Bhajan Khala coincided with the resurgence of Theravada Buddhism in Nepal in the 1930s. Newly ordained monks encouraged their followers to sing Buddhist hymns, and they published song books for them from India as it was illegal to do so in Nepal. Bhikshu Pragyabhivamsha published the first hymn book in Kushinagar, and another monk Bhikshu Dhammalok brought hundreds of copies to Kathmandu. Dhammalok was later punished for his activities to promote Buddhism. In 1944, he and seven other monks were expelled from the country by the Rana regime. \n\nAs hymn singing became popular and a number of groups were formed, there was a move towards making the songs educational instead of keeping them purely devotional. So from 1943, the hymns and hymn groups were called Gyānmālā (\"garland of wisdom\").\n\nThe hymn singers had to suffer repeated police harassment for singing in Nepali Bhasa. They were also accused of converting Hindus to Buddhists. In 1944, members of Gyanmala singing Buddhist hymns led a procession from Swayambhu to Jana Baha in Kathmandu. The police stopped the procession and confiscated their song books.\n\nOn another occasion in 1945, the police broke up a singing session at the rest house at Swayambhu where they usually held their recitals. They ransacked the place and took away all the hymn books they could find.\n\nAfter the fall of the Ranas with the revolution of 1951, the group was formally organized and dedicated itself to recitation of hymns, preservation of the sacred site of Swayambhu and humanitarian work. In 1990, it was restructured as a national organization.\n\nSwayambhu Gyanmala Bhajan Khala is based in a rest house at Swayambhu. Recitals are held here in the morning on holidays and daily during the Buddhist holy month of Gunla. It presently has 70 chapters nationwide and one each in Kalimpong, India and London, UK.\n"}
{"id": "28280274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28280274", "title": "Have Faith", "text": "Have Faith\n\nHave Faith was a short-lived American sitcom that aired on ABC for 7 episodes in 1989. \n\nThe story of a Catholic parish in a less-than-desirable Chicago neighborhood. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913808", "title": "Heimia salicifolia", "text": "Heimia salicifolia\n\nHeimia salicifolia is a species of flowering plant in the Loosestrife family, Lythraceae. It is native to the Americas, ranging from the southwestern United States (Texas and New Mexico) through Mexico and Central America to Argentina. Common names include shrubby yellowcrest, sinicuichi, sun opener, willow-leaf heimia, sini. The plant has been used for shamanic purposes by native peoples in Central America and Mexico.\n\nUse of \"H. salicifolia\" for shamanic purposes by native peoples of Central America and Mexico has been described. In the method of preparation commonly used, fresh leaves are collected and allowed to wilt. The leaves are put into a cup or jar, cool water is added, and the mixture is placed in the sun to brew and ferment for at least 24 hours. It is said that during the fermentation process, the knowledge of the sun is embedded into the potion, creating the \"elixir of the sun.\"\n"}
{"id": "34845494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34845494", "title": "J. P. de Fonseka", "text": "J. P. de Fonseka\n\nJoseph Peter de Fonseka (1897 - 1948) was a Sri Lankan essayist and editor. His essays were noted for their trenchant humour and defence of Roman Catholic values, in the style of G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc. He was a friend and collaborator of the former.\n\nFonseka worked as a teacher of English in St. Joseph's Catholic College, Ceylon (as Sri Lanka was then known), a school he had attended as a youth, when he captained the cricket team. He trained as a lawyer, but did not practice, preferring to teach and write.\n\nIn 1927 Fonseka moved to Britain, becoming a close friend of G. K. Chesterton. Fonseka edited the book \"G. K. C. as M. C.\", a collection of Chesterton's introductory essays to books by other authors. Chesterton paid tribute to Fonseka, whose \"excess of enthusiasm has inspired this collection\". Fonseka's own introduction was described as \"running over with wit and wisdom\" by one reviewer.\n\nFonseka wrote essays on a variety of topics, including many on the culture and history of Ceylon. His essays also addressed aspects of Catholic belief and life. He occasionally published verse. He contributed regularly to Chesterton's magazine \"G. K.'s Weekly\".\n\nIn one \"G. K.'s Weekly\" essay, \"The Plays of Mrs. Shakespeare\", he proposed that Shakespeare's wife Anne Hathaway was the real author of his works. According to R. C. Churchill, Fonseka appears to present the case \"that Mrs. Shakespeare wrote the plays at Stratford and her husband edited them for the stage.\" However, Churchill is not clear whether or not the essay is intended as \"burlesque\" (it contains satirical references to Virginia Woolf's feminist booklet \"A Room of One's Own\", in which Shakespeare's sister is portrayed as an oppressed literary genius).\n\nFonseka returned to live in Ceylon and to work at St. Joseph's school. He also established a newspaper to promote Distributism, the Catholic economic theory espoused by Chesterton and Belloc. According to Maisie Ward and Andrew Greeley the paper had \"considerable effect\" in both Ceylon and India.\n\nIn 1946 he was given the honorary position of \"Chamberlain of Honour of the Swords and Cape\" by Pope Pius XII, but was unable to leave Ceylon to officially receive the investment in Rome due to illness. He died in 1948.\n\nFonseka was much praised for his inspiring teaching and dedication to his work. Among his pupils was the novelist Ambalavener Sivanandan, who recalled that Fonseka \"really stimulated me...De Fonseka gave me a taste for language: English sat on my tongue, I could taste it together with the Tamil I spoke at home.\" He also mentored the Sri Lankan artist and advertising mogul Reggie Candappa, getting him his first work as an illustrator.\n\n"}
{"id": "26962626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26962626", "title": "Jamshedji Sorab Kukadaru", "text": "Jamshedji Sorab Kukadaru\n\nJamshedji Sorab Kukadaru (26 May 1831- 4 October 1900) was a Zoroastrian priest in Mumbai, India revered by Zoroastrians for a number of miracles he is believed to have performed. He was well known by his contemporaries for his simple lifestyle and asceticism and unflinching adherence to priestly purity rules. Most of his life is said to have been spent in prayer.\n\nKukadaru was also an astrologer of some repute. He was renowned for his spirituality, in particular his healing and divination. He is also reported to have prophesied several events (including the death of certain people, including Empress Victoria.\n\nDue to orthographic differences between English and Gujarati he is also referred to as Dasturji Jamshedji Ervad Sohrabji Kookadaru Saheb and numerous other variations. Dasturji and Ervad are both honorific titles relating to his position as a priest. Rather confusingly he has the title Dasturji and Ervad, which are different priestly 'ranks'. This is unprecedented, in his lifetime Kukadaru was only an Ervad a medium-level 'mere ritual priest' not befitting the title of Dastur which was granted after his death by the noted priest Jamasp-Asa at his Uthamna (Zoroastrian funeral prayers). The title Saheb give to him is another honorific, translating as 'master', it is often used in the Indian Subcontinent in reference to 'spiritual masters' like the Sikh \"Guru Granth Sahib\"\".\"\n\nKukadaru was born on 26 May 1831 in Surat, Gujarat, India. The day as per the Zoroastrian calendar was Yazdegerdi Mah (month) Ava, Roj (day) Zamyad. Kukadaru moved from Surat to the larger city of Bombay, to work as the (priest) of Kapawala Agiary (Fire-Temple) at Nizam Street, Baharkot.\n\nKukadaru Saheb lived a simple life including washing his own clothes and eating only one meal a day which consisted of rice and ghee (clarified butter). This meal woulf be cooked by keeping a vessel of rice in the rays of the sun and reciting sacred Avestan verses. He did not eat meat, and only consumed milk and fruits.\n\nSeveral miracles were performed by Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb, and the most famous one was the Gold Bar miracle. Dasturji Saheb transformed an ordinary brick into a large bar of gold by praying the ancient Avestan prayers throughout the night. \nThis was on request of the Zoroastrian devotees to cover a shortfall in the construction money for the Anjuman Atash Behram building at Dhobi Talao (Mumbai, India). The sum of Rupees 10,000 was raised by selling the transformed bar of gold, \na handsome sum of money in the 19th century. Even today, an amazing lifelike portrait of Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb is placed in the hall of the Atash Behram, and similar portraits of Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb are placed in most of the Parsi Zoroastrian Atash Behrams and Agiaris (Fire Temples) in the Indian subcontinent. Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb also cured people of diseases by praying the Avestan scriptures of the Zoroastrian religion.\nKukadaru died on 4 January 1900 on the Yazdegerdi calendar day Behram in the month of Fravardin.\n\nMany years after Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb had died, Ervad Nadarsha Navroji Aibara who was a well-known priest of Cusrow Baug, Colaba, (Mumbai, India) was responsible for rekindling the faith in Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb among the Parsi Zoroastrian community in India and overseas. Ervad Nadarsha Navroji Aibara was born in 1933, which was a number \nof years after Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb died. Ervad Aibara’s spiritual Guru (mentor) was Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb, and Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb’s spiritual Guru \nwas the more ancient Dastur Azar Kayvan Bin Azar Gushasp Saheb.\nDasturji Kukadaru was reported to have participated in the Mazgaon Navjotes. In 1882, a group of poor dock workers living and working in the Mazgaon Docks appealed to various priests and also petitioned the Bombay Parsi Panchayet (BPP) to be admitted as Parsi Zoroastrians, despite being born of mixed Zoroastrian and non-Zoroastrian parentage. Some 200 prominent Parsis collected funds and eminent priests (including Kukadaru and Jamaspji Minocherji,) performed the Navjote ceremony, in the presence of a large gathering on 26 June 1882. At the time it was said this act of generosity brought \"prestige to the community\". Eleven navjotes were performed of 4 males and 5 females, adults with ages ranging from 35 years to 77 years as well as two children. The two children of 5 and 2, were considered too young to undergo the ritual. It was understood that all of the initiates had male Parsi parentage. This event was duly reported in the Mumbai Samachar, Jam-e-Jamshed and Parsi Prakash’. Reformists Parsis, including the plaintiffs in the case of \"Petit\" \"vs. Jeejeebhoy\" cite the events of the Mazagon Navjotes as evidence of universal acceptance in Zoroastrianism.\n\nErvad Aibara mentioned that over the years, the spiritual power of Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb communicated with him regularly through his inner voice. Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb gave Ervad Aibara a number of nirangs (short prayers) and instructed him to give these nirangs to any person who came to him for help in difficulties. Many people benefited from these prayers in India as well as overseas, during the later half of the 20th century. The faith in Dasturji Kukadaru Saheb spread considerably due to the power of these prayers.\n"}
{"id": "46316434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46316434", "title": "Jewish catacombs of Venosa", "text": "Jewish catacombs of Venosa\n\nThe Jewish Catacombs of Venosa are a set of catacombs located near the Italian city of Venosa, Province of Potenza, on Maddelena Hill. The exact date of construction for the catacombs is unknown, but it seems likely that they were built and used between the 4th and 6th centuries C.E., and their existence has been known since the 19th century. The structure of the catacombs is simple, with two parallel tunnels connected by passages.\n\nMost of the names listed in the catacombs reflect the tendency of Jewish diaspora to take Greek or Latin names as opposed to names in Hebrew, with only a small minority of the people buried there having names reflecting a Hebrew etymology. The earliest writing in the catacombs is usually in Koine Greek, with Latin existing in the newer and deeper sections of the catacombs. There is more Hebrew text in these catacombs than in the better known Jewish catacombs of Rome. Religious iconography, such as the menorah, can be seen in the catacombs.\n"}
{"id": "315143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315143", "title": "Jewish ethics", "text": "Jewish ethics\n\nJewish ethics is the moral philosophy particular to one or both of the Jewish religion and peoples. Serving as a convergence of Judaism and the Western philosophical tradition of ethics, the diverse literature of Jewish ethics's broad range of moral concern classifies it as a type of normative ethics. For two millennia, Jewish thought has focussed on the interplay of ethics with the rule of law. The tradition of rabbinic religious law - \"Halakhah\" - addresses several problems associated with ethics, including its semi-permeable relation with duties that are usually not punished under law.\n\nIn early rabbinic Judaism, the oral Torah both interpreted the Hebrew Bible and engaged in novel topics. Ethics is a key aspect of this legal literature, known as the literature of halakhah.\n\nThe best known rabbinic text associated with ethics is the non-legal Mishnah tractate of \"Avot\" (“forefathers”), commonly translated as “Ethics of the Fathers”. Similar ethical teachings are found throughout more legally oriented portions of the Mishnah, Talmud and other rabbinic literature. Generally, ethics is a key aspect of non-legal rabbinic literature, known as aggadah. This early rabbinic ethics shows signs of ideological and polemical exchange with the Greek (Western philosophical) ethical tradition.\n\nIn the medieval period, direct Jewish responses to Greek ethics may be seen in major rabbinic writings. Notably, Maimonides offers a Jewish interpretation of Aristotle (e.g., \"Nicomachean Ethics\"), who enters into Jewish discourse through Islamic writings. Maimonides, in turn, influences Thomas Aquinas, a dominant figure in Christian ethics and the natural law tradition of moral theology. The relevance of natural law to medieval Jewish philosophy is a matter of dispute among scholars.\n\nMedieval and early modern rabbis also created a pietistic tradition of Jewish ethics. This ethical tradition was given expression through musar literature, which presents virtues and vices in a didactic, methodical way. The Hebrew term \"musar\", while literally derived from a word meaning \"discipline\" or \"correction,\" is usually translated as ethics or morals. Examples of medieval Musar literature include:\n\n\nHalakhic (legal) writings of the Middle Ages are also important texts for Jewish ethics. Important sources of Jewish ethical law include Maimonides' Mishneh Torah (12th century) and Joseph Karo and Moses Isserles's Shulkhan Arukh (16th century), especially the section of that code titled \"Choshen Mishpat.\" A wide array of topics on ethics are also discussed in medieval responsa literature.\n\nIn the modern period, Jewish ethics sprouted many offshoots, partly due to developments in modern ethics and partly due to the formation of Jewish denominations. Trends in modern Jewish normative ethics include:\n\n\nAcademic scholars of Judaism have also engaged in descriptive Jewish ethics, the study of Jewish moral practices and theory, which is situated more in the disciplines of history and the social sciences than in \"ethics\" proper (see Newman 1998).\n\nIn 2003, the Society of Jewish Ethics was founded as the academic organization \"dedicated to the promotion of scholarly work in the field of Jewish ethics.\" The Society promotes both normative research (the field of ethics proper) and descriptive (historical/social scientific) research.\n\nThe writings attributed to the Biblical prophets exhort all people to lead a righteous life. Kindness to the needy, benevolence, faith, compassion for the suffering, a peace-loving disposition, and a truly humble and contrite spirit, are the virtues which the Prophets hold up for emulation. Civic loyalty, even to a foreign ruler, is urged as a duty (Jer. 29:7). \"Learn to do good\" is the keynote of the prophetic appeal (Isa. 1:17); thus the end-time will be one of peace and righteousness; war will be no more (Isa. 2:2 et seq.).\n\nHillel the Elder formulated a version of the Golden rule: \"What is hateful to you, do not do unto others.\" (Talmud, tracate Shabbat 31a; Midrash Avot de Rabbi Natan.) Rabbi Akiva, a 1st-century CE rabbi, states \"Whatever you hate to have done unto you, do not do to your neighbor; wherefore do not hurt him; do not speak ill of him; do not reveal his secrets to others; let his honor and his property be as dear to thee as thine own\" (Midrash \"Avot deRabbi Natan\".)\n\nRabbi Akiva also declared the commandment \"thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself\" (Lev. xix.18) to be the greatest fundamental commandment of the Jewish doctrine (compare to Great Commandment); Ben Azzai, in reference to this, said that a still greater principle was found in the Scriptural verse, \"This is the book of the generations of Adam [origin of man]. In the day that God created man [Adam], in the likeness of God made he him\" (Gen. v.1; Sifra, Ḳedoshim, iv; Yer. Ned. ix.41c; Gen. R. xxiv).\n\nRabbi Simlai taught \"Six hundred and thirteen commandments were given to Moses; then David came and reduced them to eleven in Psalm 15.; Isaiah (33:15), to six; Micah (6:8), to three: 'To act justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God'; Isaiah again (56:1), to two: 'Maintain justice, and do what is right'; and Habakkuk (2:4), to one: 'The righteous person lives by his faithfulness'.\"\n\nRabbi Simeon ben Gamaliel taught: \"The world rests on three things: justice, truth, and peace\" (Avot 1:18).\n\nJustice (\"din\" corresponding to the Biblical \"mishpat\") being God's must be vindicated, whether the object be of great or small value (Sanh. 8a). \"Let justice pierce the mountain\" is the characteristic maxim attributed to Moses (Sanh. 6b). Stealing and oppression, even if only in holding back overnight the hired man's earnings, are forbidden.\n\nFalsehood, flattery, perjury and false swearing are also forbidden. The reputation of a fellow man is sacred (Ex. 21:1). Tale-bearing and unkind insinuations are proscribed, as is hatred of one's brother in one's heart (Lev. 19:17). A revengeful, relentless disposition is unethical; reverence for old age is inculcated; justice shall be done; right weight and just measure are demanded; poverty and riches shall not be regarded by the judge (Lev. 19:15, 18, 32, 36; Ex. 23:3).\n\nShalom (\"peace\"), is one of the underlying principles of the Torah, as \"her ways are pleasant ways and all her paths are shalom ('peace').\" The Talmud explains, \"The entire Torah is for the sake of the ways of shalom\". Maimonides comments in his Mishneh Torah: \"Great is peace, as the whole Torah was given in order to promote peace in the world, as it is stated, 'Her ways are pleasant ways and all her paths are peace.'\"\n\nSimon the Just taught: \"The world rests upon three things: Torah, service to God, and showing loving-kindness (chesed)\" (Pirkei Avot 1:2). Loving-kindness is here the core ethical virtue.\n\nLoving-kindness is closely linked with compassion in the tradition. Lack of compassion marks a people as cruel (Jer. vi. 23). The repeated injunctions of the Law and the Prophets that the widow, the orphan and the stranger should be protected show how deeply, it is argued, the feeling of compassion was rooted in the hearts of the righteous in ancient Israel.\n\nFriendship is also highly prized in the Talmud; the very word for \"associate\" is \"friend\" (\"chaver\"). \"Get thyself a companion\" (Abot i. 6). \"Companionship or death\" (Ta'an. 23a).\n\nRespect for one's fellow creatures is of such importance that Biblical prohibitions may be transgressed on its account (Ber. 19b). Especially do unclaimed dead require respectful burial (see Burial in Jewish Encyclopedia iii. 432b: \"met miẓwah\").\n\nIn addition to teaching caring for others, Jewish sources tend to teach that humans are duty bound to preserve their lives (Berachot 32b) and health. Foods dangerous to health are more to be guarded against than those ritually forbidden. Jewish ethics denies self-abasement. \"He who subjects himself to needless self-castigations and fasting, or even denies himself the enjoyment of wine, is a sinner\" (Taanit 11a, 22b). People have to give account for every lawful enjoyment they refuse (Talmud Yer. Ḳid. iv. 66d). A person should show self-respect in regard to both one's body, \"honoring it as the image of God\" (Hillel: Midrash Leviticus Rabbah 34), and one's garments (Talmud Shabbat 113b; Ned. 81a). According to Judaism, real life goes beyond the concept of breathing and having blood flow through our veins, it means existing with a purpose and connecting to God and others.\n\nIn the Torah, there are more commandments concerning the kashrut (fitness) of one's money than the kashrut of food. These laws are developed and expanded upon in the Mishnah and the Talmud (particularly in Order Nezikin). The Talmud denounces as fraud every mode of taking advantage of a man's ignorance, whether he be Jew or Gentile; every fraudulent dealing, every gain obtained by betting or gambling or by raising the price of breadstuffs through speculation, is theft (B. B. 90b; Sanh. 25b). The Talmud denounces advantages derived from loans of money or of victuals as usury; every breach of promise in commerce is a sin provoking God's punishment; every act of carelessness which exposes men or things to danger and damage is a culpable transgression. There is a widely quoted tradition (Talmud Shabbat 31a) that in one's judgement in the next world, the first question asked is: \"were you honest in business?\"\n\nLaws concerning business ethics are delineated in the major codes of Jewish law (e.g. Mishneh Torah, 12th century; Shulhan Arukh, particularly Choshen Mishpat, 16th century). A wide array of topics on business ethics are discussed in the responsa literature. Business ethics received special emphasis in the teaching of Rabbi Yisrael Lipkin Salanter (19th century), founder of the Musar movement in Eastern Europe. Enforcing laws regarding the proper treatment of workers in the food industry has been central to the efforts of Conservative Judaism's Hekhsher Tzedek commission and its 2008 approval of a responsum by Rabbi Jill Jacobs which required paying workers in accordance with Jewish law and treating workers with dignity and respect.\n\nThe Jewish idea of righteousness (\"tzedakah\") gives the owner of property no right to withhold from the poor their share. According to Maimonides in the Mishneh Torah, the highest level of tzedakah is giving charity that will allow the poor to break out of the poverty cycle and become independent and productive members of society. Tzedakah may come in the form of giving an interest-free loan to a person in need; forming a partnership with a person in need; giving a grant to a person in need; finding a job for a person in need; so long as that loan, grant, partnership, or job results in the person no longer living by relying upon others.\n\nTraditional Jews commonly practice \"ma'aser kesafim,\" tithing 10% of their income to support those in need. The Rabbis decreed (against Essene practice, and against advice given in the New Testament) that one should not give away much, most or all of their possessions. They did not expect a supernatural savior to come and take care of the poor, and so they held that one must not make oneself poor. Given that nearly all Jews of their day were poor or middle-class (even the rich of that time were only rich relative to the poor), they ruled that one should not give away more than a fifth of his income to charity, while yet being obligated to give away no less than 10% of his income to charity.\n\nMany folios of the Talmud are devoted to encouragement in giving charity (see, for example, B.B. 9b-11a; A.Z. 17b; Pes. 8a; Rosh. 4a), and this topic is the focus of many religious books and rabbinic responsa.\n\nEvil-speaking is a sin regarded with intense aversion both in the Bible and in rabbinical literature. The technical term for it in the latter is lashon hara, \"the evil tongue.\" In the Bible the equivalent words are: dibbah, meaning \"talk\" in a sinister sense; rakhil, the \"merchandise\" of gossip with which the talebearer goes about; and ragal, a verb, denoting the \"peddling\" of slander. As these words indicate, that which is condemned as lashon hara denotes all the deliberate or malicious accusations, or even the exposure of truthful information which has the purpose of injuring one's neighbor, that is, calumny proper, and also the idle but mischievous chatter which is equally forbidden, though it is not slander.\n\nA rabbi in the Talmud opines that putting one's fellow man to shame is in the same category as murder (B. M. 58b), and brands as calumny the spreading of evil reports, even when true. Also forbidden is listening to slanderous gossip, or the causing of suspicion, or the provoking of unfavorable remarks about a neighbor.\n\nThe Jewish tradition gives great stress to reverence for parents. More Orthodox forms of Judaism view the father as the head of the family, while seeing the mother as entitled to honor and respect at the hands of sons and daughters. More liberal Jews view the mother and father as equal in all things.\n\nThe family plays a central role in Judaism, both socially and in transmitting the traditions of the religion. To honour one's father and mother is one of the Ten Commandments. Jewish families try to have close, respectful family relationships, with care for both the elderly and young. Religious observance is an integral part of home life, including the weekly Sabbath and keeping kosher dietary laws. The Talmud tells parents to teach their children a trade and survival skills, and children are asked to look after their parents.\n\nMarriage is called \"kiddushin\", or 'making holy'. To set up a family home is to take part in an institution imbued with holiness. Monogamy is the ideal (Gen. ii. 24). Celibacy is regarded as contrary to the injunction to be fruitful and multiply (Genesis 2:18 and Isaiah 45:18). According to the Talmud and midrash, man is enjoined to take a wife and obtain posterity (Yeb. 63b; Mek., Yitro, 8). \"He who lives without a wife lives without joy and blessing, without protection and peace\"; he is \"not a complete man\" (Yeb. 62a, 63a), and for it he has to give reckoning at the great Judgement Day (Shab. 31a).\n\nSex is not considered acceptable outside marriage, but it is an important part of the love and care shown between partners. Sexual relations are forbidden during the time of the woman's period. After her period has ended, she will go to the mikveh (the ritual immersion pool) where she will fully immerse herself and become ritually clean again. Sexual relations may then resume. Married couples need to find other ways of expressing their love for each other during these times, and some say that the time of abstention enhances the relationship.\n\nAdultery and incestual relationships (Leviticus 18:6–23) are prohibited. Orthodox Jews view male homosexuality as explicitly prohibited by the Torah, but other Jews view various forms of homosexual behavior or all forms of homosexual behavior as permitted by the tradition.\n\nJewish medical ethics is one of the major spheres of contemporary Jewish ethics. Beginning primarily as an applied ethics based on halakhah, more recently it has broadened to bioethics, weaving together issues in biology, science, medicine and ethics, philosophy and theology. Jewish bioethicists are usually rabbis who have been trained in medical science and philosophy, but may also be experts in medicine and ethics who have received training in Jewish texts. The goal of Jewish medical ethics and bioethics is to use Jewish law and tradition and Jewish ethical thought to determine which medical treatments or technological innovations are moral, when treatments may or may not be used, etc.\n\nThe ethics of proper governance is the subject of much contention among Jews. Various models of political authority are developed in the Hebrew Bible, rabbinic literature, and later Jewish literature. Many prominent Jewish thinkers, such as Maimonides, see monarchy as a moral ideal, while others, such as Abravanel, disparage the model of monarchy. Modern Jews have championed a variety of Jewish political movements, often based on their conceptions of Jewish ethics.\n\nJewish war ethics are developed by Maimonides in his \"Laws of Kings and their Wars,\" part of his Mishneh Torah. Modern Jewish war ethics have been developed especially in relationship to the Israeli military's doctrine of Purity of arms.\n\nThe Talmud approves of the death penalty in principle but the standard of proof required for application of death penalty is extremely stringent, so that situations in which a death sentence could be passed are effectively impossible.\n\nThe non-Jew is within the covenant of ethical considerations (Ex. xxii. 20; Lev. xix. 33). \"You shall love him as yourself,\" a law the phraseology of which is taken to show that in the preceding verse \"thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself\" (Lev. xix. 18) \"neighbor\" does not connote a Jew exclusively. There was to be one law for the native and the stranger (Lev. xix. 34; comp. Ex. xii. 49).\n\nThe exhortation, 'Remember the stranger, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt' (Deuteronomy 10:19), is considered important in Judaism. During Passover, Jews are expected to show hospitality to all, and to consider the needs and feelings of anyone who may be marginalized, for whatever reason. According to the Hebrew Bible, the slaves of Jewish people had special rights that preserved their dignity as equal human beings, allowed them freedoms, and forbade mistreatment.\n\nNon-Jews are to have a share in all the benevolent work of a township which appeals to human sympathy and on which the maintenance of peace among men depends, such as supporting the poor, burying the dead, comforting the mourners, and visiting the sick (Tosefta Giṭtin, v. 4-5; Babylonian Talmud, Giṭtin 64a).\n\nMost Jews do not actively seek to convert non-Jews to Judaism; in fact conversion to Judaism can be a lengthy and difficult process. They cannot actively approve of religions that appear to promote idolatry or immorality.\n\nJews believe that non-Jews who follow the Noachide code, the minimum ethical and religious requirements for all non-Jews, will be equally recognized by God. The laws of the Noachide code are: do not engage in idolatry; do not engage in blasphemy; do not murder; do not steal; do not commit acts of sexual immorality; do not cause excessive pain to animals (e.g. eating a limb torn from a living animal); and establish courts of justice.\n\nThe principle of Kiddush Hashem requires Jews to conduct themselves in every way as to prevent the name of God from being dishonored by non-Israelites. The greatest sin of fraud, therefore, is that committed against a non-Israelite, because it may lead to the reviling of God's name. A desire to sanctify the name of God may help to motivate some Jews to treat adherents of other creeds with the utmost fairness and equity.\n\nAccording to Jewish tradition, animals have a right to be treated well, even ones that might belong to one's enemy (Ex. 23:4). The Biblical commands regarding the treatment of the brute (Ex. xx. 10; Lev. xxii. 28; Deut. xxv. 4; Prov. xii. 10) are amplified in rabbinical ethics, and a special term is coined for the prohibition on causing suffering to animals (\"tza'ar ba'alei hayyim\"). Not to sit down to the table before the domestic animals have been fed is a lesson derived from Deut. xi. 15. Compassion for the brute is declared to have been the merit of Moses which made him the shepherd of his people (Exodus Rabbah 2), while Judah ha-Nasi saw in his own ailment the punishment for having once failed to show compassion for a frightened calf.\n\nConsideration for animals is an important part of Judaism. It is part of the Noachide code. Resting on the Sabbath also meant providing rest for the working animals, and people are instructed to feed their animals before they sit down to eat. At harvest time, the working animals must not be muzzled, so that they can eat of the harvest as they work. All animals must be kept in adequate conditions. Sports like bullfighting are forbidden. Animals may be eaten as long as they are killed using shechitah, a method where the animal has its throat cut using a specially sharpened knife. Jewish butchers are trained in this method which must meet the requirements of kashrut.\n\nEnforcing laws regarding the treatment of animals in the certification of food products has been part of the effort of Conservative Judaism's Hekhsher Tzedek commission.\n\nIn modern times, a Jewish vegetarian movement has emerged, led in part by Jews who believe that Jewish ethics demands vegetarianism or veganism.\n\nThe Book of Genesis 1:26 indicates that God gave people control over the animals and earth, while Genesis 2:15 emphasizes that people were put in the world to maintain it and care for it. The Talmud teaches the principle of Bal tashkhit, which some take to mean that wasting or destroying anything on earth is wrong. Many take the view that pollution is an insult to the created world, and it is considered immoral to put commercial concerns before care for God's creation. However, humans are regarded as having a special place in the created order, and their well-being is paramount. Humans are not seen as just another part of the ecosystem, so moral decisions about environmental issues have to take account of the well-being of humans.\n\nTrees and other things of value also come within the scope of rabbinical ethics, as their destruction is prohibited, according to Deut. xx. 19 (Talmud, tracate Shabbat 105b, 129a, 140b, et al.). In modern times, a Jewish environmentalist movement has emerged.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1083021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083021", "title": "Johann Georg Faust", "text": "Johann Georg Faust\n\nJohann Georg Faust (; c. 1480 or 1466 – c. 1541), also known in English as John Faustus , was an itinerant alchemist, astrologer and magician of the German Renaissance.\n\n\"Doctor Faust\" became the subject of folk legend in the decades after his death, transmitted in chapbooks beginning in the 1580s, and was notably adapted by Christopher Marlowe in his play \"The Tragical History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus\" (1604). The \"Faustbuch\" tradition survived throughout the early modern period, and the legend was again adapted in Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's closet drama \"Faust\" (1808), and Hector Berlioz's musical composition \"La damnation de Faust\" (premiered 1846).\n\nBecause of his early treatment as a figure in legend and literature, it is very difficult to establish historical facts about his life with any certainty. In the 17th century, it was even doubted that there ever had been a historical Faust, and the legendary character was identified with a printer of Mainz called \"Johann Fust\". Johann Georg Neumann in 1683 addressed the question in his \"Disquisitio historica de Fausto praestigiatore\", establishing Faust's historical existence based on contemporary references.\n\nIn the light of records of an activity spanning more than 30 years, the two suggested birth years (1466 vs. 1480/1), the two recorded first names (Georg vs. Johann) and the two recorded places of origin (Knittlingen vs. Heidelberg/Helmstett), it has been suggested that there were two itinerant magicians calling themselves \"Faustus\", one Georg, active ca. 1505 to 1515, and another Johann, active in the 1530s.\n\nPossible places of origin of the historical Johann Faust are Knittlingen (Manlius 1562), Helmstadt near Heidelberg, or Roda. Knittlingen today has an archive and a museum dedicated to Faust. Baron (1978) and Ruickbie (2009) argue for Helmstadt as his place of birth.\n\nFaust's year of birth is given either as 1480/1 or as 1466. Baron (1992) and Ruickbie prefer the latter. The city archive of Ingolstadt has a letter dated 27 June 1528 which mentions a \"Doctor Jörg Faustus von Haidlberg\". Other sources have \"Georgius Faustus Helmstet(ensis)\". Baron, searching for students from Helmstet in the archives of Heidelberg University, found records of a \"Georgius Helmstetter\" inscribed from 1483 to 1487. He was promoted to baccalaureus on 12 July 1484 and to magister artium on 1 March 1487.\n\nThe first editions of \"Doctor Faustens dreyfacher Höllenzwang\" were printed in Rome in the year 1501.\n\nFor the year 1506, there is a record of Faust appearing as performer of magical tricks and horoscopes in Gelnhausen. Over the following 30 years, there are numerous similar records spread over southern Germany. Faust appeared as physician, doctor of philosophy, alchemist, magician and astrologer, and was often accused as a fraud. The church denounced him as a blasphemer in league with the devil.\n\nJohannes Trithemius in a letter to Johannes Virdung dated 20 August 1507 warns the latter of a certain \"Georgius Sabellicus\", a trickster and fraud styling himself \"Georgius Sabellicus, Faustus junior, fons necromanticorum, astrologus, magus secundus etc.\" According to Trithemius, in Gelnhausen and Würzburg, Sabellicus boasted blasphemously of his powers, even claiming that he could easily reproduce all the miracles of Christ. Trithemius alleges that Sabellicus received a teaching position in Sickingen in 1507, which he abused by indulging in sodomy with his male students, evading punishment by a timely escape.\n\nConrad Mutianus Rufus in 1513 recounts a meeting with a \"chiromanticus\" called \"Georgius Faustus, Helmitheus Heidelbergensis\" (likely for \"hemitheus\", \"demigod of Heidelberg\"), overhearing his vain and foolish boasts in an Erfurt inn.\n\nOn 23 February 1520, Faust was in Bamberg, doing a horoscope for the bishop and the town, for which he received the sum of 10 gulden.\n\nIn 1528, Faust visited Ingolstadt, whence he was banished shortly after. In 1532 he seems to have tried to enter Nürnberg, according to an unflattering note made by the junior mayor of the city to \"deny free passage to the great nigromancer and sodomite Doctor Faustus\" (\"Doctor Faustus, dem großen Sodomiten und Nigromantico in furt glait ablainen\"). \nLater records give a more positive verdict; thus the Tübingen professor Joachim Camerarius in 1536 recognises Faust as a respectable astrologer, and physician Philipp Begardi of Worms in 1539 praises his medical knowledge.\nThe last direct attestation of Faust dates to 25 June 1535, when his presence was recorded in Münster during the Anabaptist rebellion.\n\nFaust's death is dated to 1540 or 1541. He allegedly died in an explosion of an alchemical experiment in the \"Hotel zum Löwen\" in Staufen im Breisgau. His body is reported to have been found in a \"grievously mutilated\" state which was interpreted to the effect that the devil had come to collect him in person by his clerical and scholarly enemies. In 1548, the theologian Johann Gast in his \"sermones conviviales\" states that Faust had suffered a dreadful death, and would keep turning his face to the earth in spite of the body being turned on its back several times. \nIn his 1548 account, Gast also mentions a personal meeting with Faust in Basel during which Faust provided the cook with poultry of a strange kind. According to Gast, Faust travelled with a dog and a horse, and there were rumours that the dog would sometimes transform into a servant.\n\nAnother posthumous account is that of Johannes Manlius, drawing on notes by Melanchthon, in his \"Locorum communium collectanea\" dating to 1562. According to Manlius, \"Johannes Faustus\" was a personal acquaintance of Melanchthon's and had studied in Kraków. Manlius' account is already suffused with legendary elements, and cannot be taken at face value as a historical source. Manlius recounts that Faust had boasted that the victories of the German emperor in Italy were due to his magical intervention. In Venice, he allegedly attempted to fly, but was thrown to the ground by the devil. Johannes Wier in \"de prestigiis daemonum\" (1568) recounts that Faustus had been arrested in Batenburg because he had recommended that the local chaplain called Dorstenius should use arsenic to get rid of his stubble. Dorstenius smeared his face with the poison, upon which he lost not only his beard but also much of his skin, an anecdote Wier says he heard from the victim himself. Philipp Camerarius in 1602 still claims to have heard tales of Faust directly from people who had met him in person, but from the publication of the 1587 \"Faustbuch\", it becomes impossible to separate historical anecdotes from rumour and legend.\n\nThe town of Bad Kreuznach has a \"Faust Haus\" restaurant reportedly built in 1492 on the site of \"the home of the legendary Magister Johann Georg Sabellicus Faust\".\n\nThere are several prints of grimoires or magical texts attributed to Faust. \nSome of them are artificially dated to his lifetime, either to \"1540\", or to \"1501\", \"1510\", etc., \nsome even to unreasonably early dates, such as \"1405\" and \"1469\".\nThe prints in fact date to the late 16th century, from ca. 1580, i.e. the same period of the development of the \"Volksbuch\" tradition.\nThe \"Höllenzwang\" text is also extant in manuscript versions from the late 16th century.\nA manuscript of c. 1700 under the title \"Doctoris Johannis Fausti Morenstern practicirter Höllenzwang genant Der schwarze Mohr. Ann(o) MCCCCVII\" (i.e. \"1407\") includes the text which in print is known as \"Dr. Faustens sogenannter schwartzer Mohren-Stern, gedruckt zu London 1510\". \nVariants of the \"Höllenzwang\" attributed to Faust continued to be published for the next 200 years, well into the 18th century.\n\n\nThese works were collected and edited in \"Das Kloster\" by J. Scheible (1849), and based on Scheible in 1976 and 1977 by the \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft für Religions- und Weltanschauungsfragen\", in the \"Moonchild-Edition\", and again as facsimile by Poseidon Press and Fourier Verlag.\n\nThe \"Historia von D. Johann Fausten\" printed by Johann Spies 1587, a German chapbook about Faust's sins, is at the beginning of the literary tradition of the Faust character. It was translated into English in 1587, where it came to the attention of Christopher Marlowe. Marlowe's The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus of 1589 portrays Faust as the archetypical adept of Renaissance magic. In the 17th century, Marlowe's work was re-introduced to Germany in the form of popular plays, which over time reduced Faust to a merely comical figure for popular amusement. Meanwhile, the chapbook of Spies was edited and excerpted by G. R. Widmann and Nikolaus Pfitzer, and was finally re-published anonymously in modernised form in the early 18th century, as the \"Faustbuch des Christlich Meynenden\". This edition became widely known and was also read by Goethe in his youth. As summarized by Richard Stecher, this version is the account of a young man called \"Johann Faust\", son of a peasant, who studies theology in Wittenberg, besides medicine, astrology and \"other magical arts\". His boundless desire for knowledge leads him to conjure the devil in a wood near Wittenberg, who appears in the shape of a greyfriar who calls himself \"Mephistopheles\".\n\nFaust enters a pact with the devil, pledging his soul in exchange for 24 years of service. The devil produces a famulus \"Christoph Wagner\" and a poodle \"Prästigiar\" to accompany Faust in his adventure. Faust goes on to live a life of pleasures. In Leipzig, he rides out of Auerbachs Keller on a barrel. In Erfurt he taps wine from a table. He visits the Pope in Rome, the Sultan in Constantinople and the Kaiser in Innsbruck. After 16 years, he begins to regret his pact and wants to withdraw, but the devil persuades him to renew it, conjuring up Helen of Troy, with whom Faust sires a son called Justus. As the 24 years are over, \"Satan, chief of devils\" appears and announces Faust's death for the coming night. Faust at a \"last supper\" scene in Rimlich takes leave of his friends and admonishes them to repentance and piety. At midnight, there is a great noise from Faust's room, and in the morning, its walls and floors are found splattered with blood and brains, with Faust's eyes lying on the floor and his dead body in the courtyard.\n\n16th to 18th century treatments of the Faust legend include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22223875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22223875", "title": "Joyous Life", "text": "Joyous Life\n\nIn Tenrikyo, the Joyous Life (\"yōki yusan\" or \"yōki gurashi\") is the ideal taught by spiritual leaders and pursued through charity and abstention from greed, selfishness, hatred, anger and arrogance. Theologically, the Joyous Life functions as the purpose of human existence preordained by God during the creation of human beings and as the means for the salvation of humankind.\n\nThe term \"Joyous Life\" refers to several related terms that appear in Tenrikyo scriptures and historical documents in the original Japanese. In the \"Ofudesaki\", the term is written as \"yōki yusan\" (よふきゆさん), while in the \"Osashizu,\" it is written as \"yōki asobi\" (陽気遊び) and \"yōki gurashi\" (陽気ぐらし). Early outlines of the Tenrikyo teachings use the terms \"yōkinaru yusan asobi\" (よふきなるゆさんあすび) and \"yōki yusan\" (陽気遊参).\n\nThe characters that make up \"yōki yusan/gurashi\" are as follows:\n\n\nAt the focal point of Tenrikyo's ontological understanding is the positing of \"original causality\", or \"causality of origin\" (\"moto no innen\" もとのいんねん), which is that God the Parent created human beings to see them live the Joyous Life (the salvific state) and to share in that joy. Tenrikyo teaches that the Joyous Life will eventually encompass all humanity, and that gradual progress towards the Joyous Life is even now being made with the guidance of divine providence. Thus the concept of original causality has a teleological element, being the gradual unfolding of that which was ordained at the beginning of time.\n\nThe Joyous Life is understood as the salvific state which individuals can work toward through prayer (i.e. Service, \"Sazuke\") and practice in everyday life (i.e. \"tannō,\" \"hinokishin\").\n\n\"Tannō\" (たんのう), or \"joyous acceptance,\" is the spiritual practice of the Joyous Life. It is the state of mind which accepts all occurrences in one's daily life positively and as the intention of God, including hardships.\n\n\"Hinokishin\" (ひのきしん), or \"daily contribution,\" is the physical practice of the Joyous Life. It is an expression of joy and gratitude that materializes in the world through service for one's community or surroundings.\n\nTenrikyo doctrine and tradition assert the spiritual maturity of humankind will gradually improve over many rebirths and countless millennia, and by so doing will grow in more joy and bliss and will get closer to the world of the Joyous Life. It is said that when the hearts of humankind have been adequately purified, God will inaugurate the world of the Joyous Life by bestowing a sweet dew on the basin to be placed on top of the \"Kanrodai,\" which when consumed, will allow people to live the full lifespan of 115 years without illness or misfortune, and die painlessly to be reborn. Therefore Tenrikyo eschatology maintains a progressive and a millenarian outlook on the future of humankind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7857156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7857156", "title": "Kudalasangama", "text": "Kudalasangama\n\nKudalasangama (also written as Kudala Sangama) in India is an important centre of pilgrimage for Lingayats. It is located about from the Almatti Dam in Bagalkot district of Karnataka state. The Krishna and Malaprabha River rivers merge here and flow east towards Srisaila (another pilgrim center) Andhra Pradesh. The \"Aikya Mantapa\" or the holy \"Samādhi\" of Basavanna, the founder of the Lingayat sect of Hindu religion along with Linga, which is believed to be self-born (\"Swayambhu\"), is here. The Kudala Sangama Development Board takes care of the maintenance and development.\n\nThe main attractions in and around Kudala Sangama are:\n\nAn inscription in the temple of AD 1213 records a gift to the god Acheshvara. Another stone record of AD 1160 refers to land grant to deities, Kaleshvara and Achesvara.\n\nIt is believed that in the 12th century Jathaveda Muni Sarangamath had set up an education centre here and Basaveshvara, Channabasavanna and Akkanagamma were students. Basaveshvara spent his boyhood here and, after his return from Kalyana, he is said to have become one with the God at this place. The vachanas composed by him are dedicated to the presiding deity here, Sangamanatha.\n\nThe place is a village about from Hungund. Close by is the holy pilgrim centre and the renowned temple of Sangameshwara, on the river bank, at the confluence of the Krishna and the Malaprabha rivers. Formerly it was known as Kappadi sangama where Basaveshwara’s teacher Ishanaguru lived.\n\nThe temple consists of a porch, navaranga and the main shrine. The idols of Basaveshvara, Neelamma, Nandi and Ganapathi have been placed in the navaranga. The door frame of the garbhagriha is richly carved with floral designs and animal figures. In the shrine is the linga famed as Sangameshvara or Sangamanatha.\n\nIn front of the temple, in the midst of the river, is a small stone mantapa with a Shivalinga in it, and lofty cement concrete dry well has been built around it to protect it from submersion.\n\nOn the east, across the river Krishna, stands the Neelamma’s temple. She was the consort of Basaveshvara. Here also a high cement concrete dry well has been built around the structure to protect it from the waters.\n\nVishwaguru ('universal teacher') Basavanna is the famous prophet and social reformer who was born in Bagewadi (Basavana Bagewadi), a small village in Bijapur District, in North Karnataka, also called Ingaleshwara Bagewadi. Agrahara was an important place in town. The house of Madiraja the chief of the township was situated here. Basaveshwara was born to Madiraja and Madambike on third day of Vyshakha month of Anandanama year in Rohini star, according to the Hindu calendar (the year coincides with AD 1134). Basavanna was a great saint; he is considered Guru by some and some believe in him as an incarnation of Nandi, Lord Shiva's greatest devotee. A true visionary of his time and a revolutionary who started Lingayat sect. Basavanna's ultimate aim was to make this fundamental right available to each and everyone. Basavanna, keeping welfare as the ultimate aim, expedited programmes to take religion to the people by preaching and writing religious literature in Kannada. His samadhi is at Kudalasangama.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51882789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51882789", "title": "Kumawat", "text": "Kumawat\n\nKumawat is a caste of people living mainly in Rajasthan, Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi and other part of India.\n"}
{"id": "45641442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45641442", "title": "Kuriakose Mar Clemis", "text": "Kuriakose Mar Clemis\n\nKuriakose Mar Clemis (born 1936) is Metropolitan of Thumpamon Diocese of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church (transferred from Sultan Bathery). He was born 26 July 1936.\nHe was ordained as a deacon in 1957, as a priest in 1964 and as a bishop in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "1863799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1863799", "title": "La Convivencia", "text": "La Convivencia\n\nLa Convivencia (, \"The Coexistence\") is an academic hypothesis regarding the period of Spanish history from the Muslim Umayyad conquest of Hispania in the early eighth century until the expulsion of the Jews in 1492. It claims that in the different Moorish Iberian kingdoms, the Muslims, Christians and Jews lived in relative peace. According to this interpretation of history, this period of religious diversity differs from later Spanish and Portuguese history when Catholicism became the sole religion in the Iberian Peninsula, as a result of expulsions and forced conversions.\n\nHowever, the historicity of the above view of the supposed intercultural harmony has also been challenged as a \"myth\", with the argument that it is too strongly dependent on unreliable documentation. “Contemporary ecumenist appeal to the ‘Golden Age’ of tolerance\" in the 10th and 11th centuries in Córdoba, Andalusia, Spain under Muslim rule, but, for the most part, they are not interested in what actually happened among the Jews, Christians, and Muslims. Rather, they describe it as ‘tolerance,’ a word “that would have had little or no meaning at that time.”\n\n\"La Convivencia\" often refers to the interplay of cultural ideas between the three religious groups and ideas of religious tolerance. James Carroll invokes this concept and indicates that it played an important role in bringing the classics of Greek philosophy to Europe, with translations from Greek to Arabic to Hebrew and Latin. Jerrilynn Dodds references this concept in the spatial orientation seen in architecture that draws on building styles seen in synagogues and mosques.\n\nAn example of \"La Convivencia\" was Córdoba, Andalusia in Muslim Spain, in the ninth and tenth centuries. Córdoba was “one of the most important cities in the history of the world.” In it, “Christians and Jews were involved in the Royal Court and the intellectual life of the city.” María Rosa Menocal, Sterling Professor of Humanities at Yale University, further describes the libraries of Córdoba as \"a significant benchmark of overall social (not just scholarly) well being, since they represented a near-perfect crossroads of the material and the intellectual.\" \n\nJames L. Heft, the Alton Brooks Professor of Religion at USC, describes \"La Convivencia\" as one of the “rare periods in history” when the three religions did not either keep “their distance from one another, or were in conflict.” During most of their co-existing history, they have been “ignorant about each other” or “attacked each other.”\n\nWhile the Reconquista was ongoing, Muslims and Jews who came under Christian control were allowed to practice their religion to some degree. This ended in the late 15th century with the fall of Granada in 1492. Even before this event, the Spanish Inquisition had been established in 1478. In 1492, with the Alhambra decree, those Jews who had not converted to Catholicism were expelled. Many Jews settled in Portugal, where they were expelled in 1497.\n\nSimilarly the Muslims of Iberia were forced to convert or face either death or expulsion. This happened even though the Granadan Muslims had been assured of religious freedom at the time of their surrender. Between 1500 and 1502 all remaining Muslims of Granada and Castile were converted. In 1525, Muslims in Aragon were similarly forced to convert. The Muslim communities who converted became known as Moriscos. Still they were suspected by the \"old Christians\" of being crypto-Muslims and so between 1609 and 1614 their entire population of 300,000 was forcibly expelled. All these expulsions and conversions resulted in Catholic Christianity becoming the sole sanctioned religion in the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nDavid Nirenberg challenges the significance of the age of \"convivencia\", claiming that far from a \"peaceful \"convivencia\"\" his own work \"demonstrates that violence was a central and systemic aspect of the coexistence of majority and minority in medieval Spain, and even suggests that coexistence was in part predicated on such violence\".\n\nMark Cohen, professor of Near Eastern studies at Princeton University, in his \"Under Crescent and Cross\", calls the \"idealized\" interfaith utopia a \"myth\" that was first promulgated by Jewish historians such as Heinrich Graetz in the 19th century as a rebuke to Christian countries for their treatment of Jews. This myth was met with what Cohen calls the \"counter-myth\" of the \"neo-lachrymose conception of Jewish-Arab history\" by Bat Yeor and others, which also \"cannot be maintained in the light of historical reality\". Cohen aims to present a correction to both these \"myths\".\n\nThe Spanish mediaevalist Eduardo Manzano Moreno wrote that the concept of convivencia has no support in the historical record [“el concepto de convivencia no tiene ninguna apoyatura histórica“]. He further states that there is scarcely any information available on the Jewish and Christian communities during the Caliphate of Cordoba, and that this may come as a shock in view of the huge clout of the convivencia meme [“... quizá pueda resultar chocante teniendo en cuenta el enorme peso del tópico convivencial.”] Dr. Manzano attributes the genesis of the convivencia myth to the Spanish philologist Américo Castro (1885-1972). But Castro’s conception “… was never converted into a specific and well-documented treatment of el-Andalus, perhaps because Castro never succeeded in finding in the Arabist bibliography materials suitable for incorporation into his interpretation …”\n\nDuring the Muslim rule of much of the Iberian Peninsula, Jews were living in an uneasy coexistence with Muslims and Catholics, and the relationship between these groups was, more often than not, marked by segregation and mutual hostility. In the 1066 Granada massacre of the entire Jewish population of the city, the Jewish death toll was higher than in the much publicized Christian pogroms in the Rhineland slightly later. The Jewish philosopher Moses Maimonides (1135–1204) was forced to flee from Al-Andalus to avoid conversion by the Almohads, which may have prompted his bitter statement that Islam had inflicted more pain on the Jewish people than any other 'nation'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18278396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18278396", "title": "Lao Krang", "text": "Lao Krang\n\nThe Lao Krang (, , ; endonym: ) are a sub-group of the Lao ethnic group. Also known as the Tai Krang (), they speak a dialect of the Lao language that is not too different from the modern Lao/Isan languages of Laos and Isan. The Lao Krang should not be confused with the Tai Khang (spelt the same as 'Thai Krang' in Thai) who are a closely related people inhabiting northeastern Laos.\n\nThe Lao Krang are spread out throughout Western and Central Thailand, especially the provinces of Phichit, Suphanburi, Uthai Thani, Chai Nat, Phitsanulok, Kamphaeng Phet, Nakhon Pathom and Nakhon Sawan. \n\nThe Lao Krang are descendants of Lao people from Luang Prabang and Houaphanh provinces who were enslaved by invading Siamese soldiers after the fall of the last remnant kingdoms of Lan Xang. The Lao Krang were settled in the rich farmlands of Central Thailand to work as farm labourers to increase food production for the army and capital. Aside from their geographic isolation, the cultural traits and language of the Lao Krang give away their ancestors' traditional homeland.\n\nThe Lao Krang are Theravada Buddhists, but also maintain older animist beliefs. Especially revered is the tutelary spirit of the village, the \"hu chao nei\". Traditional activities include farming, as well as making a red dye from beetles used to stain textiles, hence the namesake \"krang\" or 'lac'. Traditionally, marriages were only between members of the same group.\n\n"}
{"id": "24760465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24760465", "title": "Life in Christ (document)", "text": "Life in Christ (document)\n\nLife in Christ is a 1993 ecumenical document that covers the topic of moral theology, especially as it relates to the relationship between the Anglican communion and the Roman Catholic Church. \n\nThe document is historically relevant in that it presents the doctrinal views of the Church of England shortly before the latter began to accept the ordination of homosexuals and the ordination of women within its moral discipline. \n\nThe text, which is signed by Cormac Murphy O'Connor on the Catholic side and Mark Santer on the Anglican side, also gives a valuable portrait of Catholic teaching surrounding marriage, and why it is regarded as indissoluble. \n\n\"Life in Christ\" was notably cited by Cardinal William Levada in his declaration on the motives for creating personal ordinariates for Anglicans entering the Catholic Church. \n"}
{"id": "889747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889747", "title": "List of Chief Rabbis of the United Hebrew Congregations", "text": "List of Chief Rabbis of the United Hebrew Congregations\n\nThe following list of Chief Rabbis of the United Kingdom gives information regarding the Chief Rabbi of the mainstream majority Orthodox Ashkenazi community of the United Kingdom, and various other Orthodox communities located within the Commonwealth of Nations. The Chief Rabbi's full title is the \"Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30707889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30707889", "title": "List of Yoruba deities", "text": "List of Yoruba deities\n\nThe following is a list of Yoruba Orisha, or deities.\n\nThe Supreme God has three manifestations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1814431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1814431", "title": "Mantrik", "text": "Mantrik\n\nA Mantrik or \"mantric\" is someone who specializes in practicing mantra. In India the word mantrik & similar names are synonymous with magician in different languages. Generally a mantrik is supposed to derive his powers from the use of charms, mantras, spells and other methods. A Hindu mantrik is known to worship Kali and is often mentioned in the same breath as tantric, though there are subtle differences.\n\n]A Mantrik is one who chants to please a god or evil spirit for his benefit. Mantras are sacred chantings containing magical and mystical words.\nA Mantrik is known for his use of sorcery and magic and can be called upon for the casting of spells and magic, divination, astrology and all aspects of sorcery.\nMantriks are normally associated with the darker side of magic and its relevant practices.\n"}
{"id": "19616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19616", "title": "Messiah", "text": "Messiah\n\nIn Abrahamic religions, the messiah or messias (; , ) is a saviour or liberator of a group of people.\n\nThe concepts of \"moshiach\", messianism, and of a Messianic Age originated in Judaism, and in the Hebrew Bible; a \"moshiach\" (messiah) is a king or High Priest traditionally anointed with holy anointing oil. Messiahs were not exclusively Jewish: the Book of Isaiah refers to Cyrus the Great, king of the Achaemenid Empire, as a messiah for his decree to rebuild the Jerusalem Temple.\n\n\"Ha mashiach\" (המשיח, \"the Messiah\", \"the anointed one\"), often referred to as \"melekh mashiach\" (מלך המשיח \"King Messiah\"), is to be a human leader, physically descended from the paternal Davidic line through King David and King Solomon. He is thought to accomplish predetermined things in only one future arrival, including the unification of the tribes of Israel, the gathering of all Jews to \"Eretz Israel\", the rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem, the ushering in of a Messianic Age of global universal peace, and the annunciation of the world to come The specific expression, \"HaMashiach\" (המשיח, lit. \"the Messiah\"), does not occur in the Tanakh.\n\nIn Christianity, the Messiah is called the Christ, from , translating the Hebrew word of the same meaning. The concept of the Messiah in Christianity originated from the Messiah in Judaism. However, unlike the concept of the Messiah in Judaism and Islam, the Messiah in Christianity is the Son of God. Christ became the accepted Christian designation and title of Jesus of Nazareth, because Christians believe that the messianic prophecies in the Old Testament were fulfilled in his mission, death, and resurrection. They believe that Christ will fulfill the rest of the messianic prophecies, specifically the prophecy of a future king who would come from the Davidic line and usher in a Messianic Age and the world to come at the Second Coming.\n\nIn Islam, Jesus was a prophet and the \"Masîḥ\" (مسيح), the Messiah sent to the Israelites, and he will return to Earth at the end of times, along with the \"Mahdi\", and defeat \"al-Masih ad-Dajjal\", the false Messiah.\n\nIn Ahmadiyya theology, these prophecies concerning the Mahdi and the second coming of Jesus have been fulfilled in Mirza Ghulam Ahmad (1835–1908), the founder of the Ahmadiyya Movement, and the terms \"Messiah\" and \"Mahdi\" are synonyms for one and the same person.\n\nIn Chabad messianism, Yosef Yitzchak Schneersohn (r. 1920 - 1950), sixth \"Rebbe\" (spiritual leader) of Chabad Lubavitch, and Menachem Mendel Schneerson (1902 - 1994), seventh \"Rebbe\" of Chabad, are Messiah claimants. Resembling early Christianity, the deceased Menachem Mendel Schneerson is believed to be the Messiah among some adherents of the Chabad movement; his second coming is believed to be imminent.\n\nMessiah (; in modern Jewish texts in English spelled \"Mashiach\"; , , , , , , ) literally means \"anointed one\". In Hebrew, the Messiah is often referred to as מלך המשיח (\"Meleḵ ha-Mašīaḥ\" in the Tiberian vocalization, , literally meaning \"the Anointed King\".)\n\nThe Greek Septuagint version of the Old Testament renders all thirty-nine instances of the Hebrew word for \"anointed\" (\"Mašíaḥ\") as Χριστός (\"Khristós\"). The New Testament records the Greek transliteration Μεσσίας, \"Messias\" twice in John.\n\n\"al-Masīḥ\" (proper name, ) is the Arabic word for messiah. In modern Arabic, it is used as one of the many titles of Jesus. \"Masīḥ\" is used by Arab Christians as well as Muslims, and is written as \"Yasūʿ al-Masih\" (يسوع المسيح) by Arab Christians or \"ʿĪsā al-Masīḥ\" (عيسى المسيح) by Muslims. The word \"al-Masīḥ\" literally means \"the anointed\", \"the traveller\", or the \"one who cures by caressing\".\n\nThe literal translation of the Hebrew word \"mashiach\" (messiah) is \"anointed\", which refers to a ritual of consecrating someone or something by putting holy oil upon it. It is used throughout the Hebrew Bible in reference to a wide variety of individuals and objects; for example, a Jewish king, Jewish priests and prophets, the Jewish Temple and its utensils, unleavened bread, and a non-Jewish king (Cyrus the Great).\n\nIn Jewish eschatology, the term came to refer to a future Jewish king from the Davidic line, who will be \"anointed\" with holy anointing oil, to be king of God's kingdom, and rule the Jewish people during the Messianic Age. In Judaism, the Messiah is not considered to be God or a pre-existent divine Son of God. He is considered to be a great political leader that has descended from King David. That is why he is referred to as Messiah ben David, which means \"Messiah, son of David\". The messiah, in Judaism, is considered to be a great, charismatic leader that is well oriented with the laws that are followed in Judaism. He will be the one who will not \"judge by what his eyes see\" or \"decide by what his ears hear\".\n\nBelief in the eventual coming of a future messiah is a fundamental part of Judaism, and is one of Maimonides' 13 Principles of Faith.\n\nMaimonides describes the identity of the Messiah in the following terms:\nEven though the eventual coming of the messiah is a strongly upheld belief in Judaism, trying to predict the actual time when the messiah will come is an act that is frowned upon. These kinds of actions are thought to weaken the faith the people have in the religion. So in Judaism, there is no specific time when the messiah comes. Rather, it is the acts of the people that determines when the messiah comes. It is said that the messiah would come either when the world needs his coming the most (when the world is so sinful and in desperate need of saving by the messiah) or deserves it the most (when genuine goodness prevails in the world).\n\nA common modern rabbinic interpretation is that there is a \"potential\" messiah in every generation. The Talmud, which often uses stories to make a moral point (\"aggadah\"), tells of a highly respected rabbi who found the Messiah at the gates of Rome and asked him, \"When will you finally come?\" He was quite surprised when he was told, \"Today.\" Overjoyed and full of anticipation, the man waited all day. The next day he returned, disappointed and puzzled, and asked, \"You said messiah would come 'today' but he didn't come! What happened?\" The Messiah replied, \"Scripture says, 'Today, if you will but hearken to his voice.'\"\n\nA Kabbalistic tradition within Judaism is that the commonly discussed messiah who will usher in a period of freedom and peace, Messiah ben David, will be preceded by Messiah ben Joseph, who will gather the children of Israel around him, lead them to Jerusalem. After overcoming the hostile powers in Jerusalem, Messiah ben Joseph, will reestablish the Temple-worship and set up his own dominion. Then Armilus, according to one group of sources, or Gog and Magog, according to the other, will appear with their hosts before Jerusalem, wage war against Messiah ben Joseph, and slay him. His corpse, according to one group, will lie unburied in the streets of Jerusalem; according to the other, it will be hidden by the angels with the bodies of the Patriarchs, until Messiah ben David comes and brings him back to life.\n\nYosef Yitzchak Schneersohn (r. 1920 - 1950), sixth \"Rebbe\" (spiritual leader) of Chabad Lubavitch, and Menachem Mendel Schneerson (1902 - 1994), seventh \"Rebbe\" of Chabad, are messiah claimants.\n\nAs per Chabad-Lubavitch messianism, Menachem Mendel Schneerson openly declared his deceased father-in-law, the former 6th \"Rebbe\" of Chabad Lubavitch, to be the Messiah. He published about Yosef Yitzchak Schneersohn to be \"Atzmus u'mehus alein vi er hat zich areingeshtalt in a guf\" (Yiddish and English for: \"Essence and Existence [of God] which has placed itself in a body\"). The gravesite of his deceased father-in-law Yosef Yitzchak Schneersohn, known as \"the \"Ohel\"\", became a central point of focus for Menachem Mendel Schneerson's prayers and supplications.\n\nRegarding the deceased Menachem Mendel Schneerson, a later Chabad Halachic ruling claims that it was \"incumbent on every single Jew to heed the Rebbe's words and believe that he is indeed King Moshiach, who will be revealed imminently\". Outside of Chabad messianism, in Judaism, there is no basis to these claims. If anything, this resembles the faith in the resurrection of Jesus and his second coming in early Christianity.\n\nStill today, the deceased rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson is believed to be the Messiah among adherents of the Chabad movement, and his second coming is believed to be imminent. He is venerated and invocated to by thousands of visitors and letters each year at two bamot-tombs (\"Ohel\"), especially in a pilgrimage each year on the anniversary of his death.\n\nThe Greek translation of Messiah is \"khristos\" (), anglicized as \"Christ\", and Christians commonly refer to Jesus as either the \"Christ\" or the \"Messiah\". Christians believe that messianic prophecies were fulfilled in the mission, death, and resurrection of Jesus and that he will return to fulfill the rest of messianic prophecies.\n\nThe majority of historical and mainline Christian theologies consider Jesus to be the Son of God and God the Son, a concept of the Messiah fundamentally different from the Jewish and Islamic concepts. In each of the four New Testament Gospels, the only literal anointing of Jesus is conducted by a woman. In the Gospels of Mark, Matthew, and John, this anointing occurs in Bethany, outside Jerusalem. In the Gospel of Luke, the anointing scene takes place at an indeterminate location, but context suggests it to be in Galilee, or even a separate anointing altogether.\n\nWhile the term \"messiah\" does appear in Islam, the meaning is different from that found in Christianity and Judaism. \"Though Islam shares many of the beliefs and characteristics of the two Semitic/Abrahamic/monotheistic religions which preceded it, the idea of messianism, which is of central importance in Judaism and Christianity, is alien to Islam as represented by the Qur'an.\"\n\nThe Quran identifies Jesus (Isa) as the messiah (\"Masih\"), who will one day return to earth. At the time of the second coming, \"according to Islamic tradition, Jesus will come again and exercise his power of healing. He will forever destroy falsehood, as embodied in the Daj-jal, the great falsifier, the anti-Christ. Then God will reign forever.\"\n\nJesus is one of the most important prophets in the Islamic tradition, along with Noah, Abraham, Moses, and Muhammad. Unlike Christians, Muslims see Jesus as merely a prophet, but not as God himself or the son of God. Like all other prophets, Jesus is an ordinary man, who receives revelations from God. According to religious scholar Mona Siddiqui, in Islam, \"Prophecy allows God to remain veiled and there is no suggestion in the Qur'an that God wishes to reveal of himself just yet. Prophets guarantee interpretation of revelation and that God's message will be understood.\" Prophecy in human form does not represent the true powers of God, contrary to the way Jesus is depicted in mainstream Christianity.\n\nThe Quran states that Isa, the Son of Maryam (Arabic: \"Isa ibn Maryam\"), is the messiah and prophet sent to the Children of Israel. The birth of Isa is described in Quran sura 19 verses 1–33, and sura 4 verse 171 explicitly states Isa as the Son of Maryam. Sunni Muslims believe Isa is alive in Heaven and did not die in the crucifixion, as depicted in mainstream Christianity. According to religious scholar Mahmoud Ayoub, \"Jesus' close proximity or nearness (qurb) to God is affirmed in the Qur'anic insistence that Jesus did not die, but was taken up to God and remains with God\" The Quran in sura 4 verse 157-158 states that: \"They did not kill him, nor did they crucify him, but they thought they did\" since the messiah was \"made to resemble him to them.\"\n\nIt is believed that Isa will return to Earth to defeat the Masih ad-Dajjal (false Messiah), a figure similar to the Antichrist in Christianity, who will emerge shortly before \"Yawm al-Qiyāmah\" (\"the Day of Resurrection\"). The \"Mahdi\" will come shortly before the second coming of Jesus. After he has destroyed ad-Dajjal, his final task will be to become leader of the Muslims. Isa will unify the Muslim \"Ummah\" (the followers of Islam) under the common purpose of worshipping Allah alone in pure Islam, thereby ending divisions and deviations by adherents. Mainstream Muslims believe that at that time Isa will dispel Christian and Jewish claims about him.\n\nA \"hadith\" in Abu Dawud () says:\n\nThe Prophet said: There is no prophet between me and him, that is, Isa. He will descend (to the earth). When you see him, recognise him: a man of medium height, reddish fair, wearing two light yellow garments, looking as if drops were falling down from his head though it will not be wet. He will fight the people for the cause of Islam. He will break the cross, kill swine, and abolish jizyah. Allah will perish all religions except Islam. He will destroy the Antichrist and will live on the earth for forty years and then he will die. The Muslims will pray over him.\nBoth Sunni and Shia Muslims agree that al-Mahdi will arrive first, and after him, Isa. Isa will proclaim al-Mahdi as the Islamic community leader. A war will be fought—the Dajjal against al-Mahdi and Isa. This war will mark the approach of the coming of the Last Day. After Isa slays al-Dajjāl at the Gate of Lud, he will bear witness and reveal that Islam is indeed the true and last word from God to humanity as Yusuf Ali's translation reads: \"And there is none of the People of the Book but must believe in him before his death; and on the Day of Judgment he will be a witness against them.\" A \"hadith\" in Sahih Bukhari () says:\n\"Allah's Apostle said \"How will you be when the son of Mariam descends among you and your Imam is from among you?\" \"\n\nThe Quran denies the crucifixion of Jesus, claiming that he was neither killed nor crucified. The Quran also emphasizes the difference between Allah (God in Arabic) and the Messiah:\n\"Those who say that Allah is the Messiah, son of Mary, are unbelievers. The Messiah said: \"O Children of Israel, worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord... unbelievers too are those who have said that Allah is the third of three... the Messiah, son of Mary, was only a Messenger before whom other Messengers had gone.\"\n\nShi'i Islam, which significantly values and revolves around the 12 spiritual leaders called Imams, differs significantly from the beliefs of Sunni Islam. Unlike Sunni Islam, \"Messianism is an essential part of religious belief and practice for almost all Shi'a Muslims.\" Shi'i Islam believes that the last Imam will return again, with the return of Jesus. According to religious scholar Mona Sidique, \"Shi'is are acutely aware of the existence everywhere of the twelfth Imam, who disappeared in 874. Shi'i piety teaches that the hidden Imam will return with Jesus Christ to set up the messianic kingdom before the final Judgement Day, when all humanity will stand before God. There is some controversy as to the identity of this imam. There are sources that underscore how the Shia sect agrees with the Jews and Christians that Imam Mehdi (al-Mahdi) is another name for Elijah, whose return prior to the arrival of the Messiah was prophesied in the Old Testament. On the other hand, there is also belief from among Shia and Sunni adherents that the imam will be Muhammad.\n\nThe Imams and Fatima will have a direct impact on the judgements rendered that day. This will represent the ultimate intercession.\" There is debate on whether Shi'i Muslims should accept the death of Jesus. Religious scholar Mahmou Ayoub argues \"Modern Shi'i thinkers have allowed the possibility that Jesus died and only his spirit was taken up to heaven.\" Conversely, religious scholar Mona Siddiqui argues that Shi'i thinkers believe Jesus was \"neither crucified nor slain.\" She also argues that Shi'i Muslims believe that the twelfth imam did not die, but \"was taken to God to return in God's time,\" and \"will return at the end of history to establish the kingdom of God on earth as the expected Mahdi.\"\n\nAccording to Ahmadiyya thought, Messiahship is a phenomenon through which a special emphasis is given on the transformation of a people by way of offering suffering for the sake of God instead of giving suffering (i.e. refraining from revenge). Ahmadis believe that this special emphasis was given through the person of Jesus and Mirza Ghulam Ahmad (1835–1908) among others.\n\nAhmadis hold that the prophesied eschatological figures of Christianity and Islam, the Messiah and Mahdi, were in fact to be fulfilled in one person who was to represent all previous prophets.\n\nNumerous hadith are presented by the Ahmadis in support of their view, such as one from Sunan Ibn Majah, which says, \"There is No Mahdi but Jesus son of Mary.\"\n\nAhmadis believe that the prophecies concerning the Mahdi and the second coming of Jesus have been fulfilled in Mirza Ghulam Ahmad (1835–1908), the founder of the Ahmadiyya Movement. Unlike mainstream Muslims, the Ahmadis do not believe that Jesus is alive in heaven, but that he survived the crucifixion and migrated towards the east where he died a natural death and that Ghulam Ahmad was only the promised spiritual second coming and likeness of Jesus, the promised Messiah and Mahdi. He also claimed to have appeared in the likeness of Krishna and that his advent fulfilled certain prophecies found in Hindu scriptures. He stated that the founder of Sikhism was a Muslim saint, who was a reflection of the religious challenges he perceived to be occurring. Ghulam Ahmad wrote \"Barahin-e-Ahmadiyya\", in 1880, which incorporated Indian, Sufi, Islamic and Western aspects in order to give life to Islam in the face of the British Raj, Protestant Christianity, and rising Hinduism. He later declared himself the Promised Messiah and the Mahdi following Divine revelations in 1891. Ghulam Ahmad argued that Jesus had appeared 1300 years after the formation of the Muslim community and stressed the need for a current Messiah, in turn claiming that he himself embodied both the Mahdi and the Messiah. Ghulam Ahmad was supported by Muslims who especially felt oppressed by Christian and Hindu missionaries.\n\n\nThe following works include the concept of a messiah as a leader of a cause or liberator of a people:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57404952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57404952", "title": "Myers-JDC-Brookdale Institute", "text": "Myers-JDC-Brookdale Institute\n\nThe Myers-JDC-Brookdale Institute (MJB) is a Jerusalem-based applied research institute on social policy and human services, serving Israel, the Jewish world, and the international community.\n\nThe Institute’s mission is to identify and study key social issues, and contribute to shaping policy, designing programs and improving services for individuals, families, and communities.\n\nIn 1974, the JDC-Brookdale Institute of Gerontology was established with a grant from the Brookdale Foundation as a partnership between the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (AJJDC) and the Government of Israel.\n\nThe Institute's original focus was on addressing the challenges of an aging society in Israel. Over time, this mandate expanded to include a broad range of social challenges facing Israel, including children and youth at risk, integration of immigrants and other minorities, integrating people with disabilities, employment of disadvantaged populations, and improving the quality of the social service sector.\n\nIn 2004, the Cleveland-based David and Inez Myers Foundation joined the partnership with a $15 million endowment gift. In recognition the Institute was renamed the Myers-JDC-Brookdale Institute.\n\nToday, MJB includes 6 research divisions: Engelberg Center for Children and Youth, Smokler Center for Health Policy Research, Division for Research on Disabilities, Division for Research Employment, Division for Research on Aging, and the Division for Quality in Social Services.\n\nIn 2017, Prof. Michael Hartal was named Executive Director of the Institute. He replaced Prof. Jack Habib, who had been with MJB since its founding.\n\nThe Institute's multi-disciplinary approach is reflected in the diversity of the 120+ research and support staff, who have backgrounds in anthropology, economics, education, gerontology, health, psychology, public policy, social work, sociology, statistics, and more.\n\nMJB’s Governance Committee includes representatives from the Israeli Government (ministries of Finance, Education, Health, Social Services and the Social Security Administration), the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, and the David and Inez Myers Foundation.\n\nAs a partnership between the government and the philanthropic sector, MJB seeks to \"promote the application and impact of the research while ensuring academic independence and objectivity.\"\n\nAt the core of the Institute's work are evaluations of national social initiatives, both at in their development phase and the national dissemination phase.\n\nOver the years, the Institute's studies have contributed to many of the major issues on Israel's public and social policy agenda. Of note:\n\n\nThe Institute also promotes international exchange among researchers and policy makers. It is a co-sponsor of the \"Israel Journal of Health Policy Research.\" MJB is also responsible for the Israel country report to the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies.\n\n"}
{"id": "4249099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4249099", "title": "Noah's Ark Zoo Farm", "text": "Noah's Ark Zoo Farm\n\nNoah's Ark Zoo Farm is a zoo developed on a working farm in Wraxall, North Somerset, west of Bristol, England, which promotes a form of creationism that includes a belief that the biblical story of Noah's Flood was an actual cataclysmic event. In 2009 the zoo was expelled from the British and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums, the main industry regulatory body, \"for bringing the association into disrepute\", but in 2018 it regained membership in the body. The zoo has the largest elephant enclosure in northern Europe.\n\nNoah’s Ark Zoo Farm was conceived by Anthony Bush (b. 1938), the son of a Wiltshire farm manager. Bush attended Monkton Combe School, served a stint as an officer in National Service with the Somerset Light Infantry, and attended Worcester College, Oxford, for a year before deciding to return to farming. In 1960 he became a tenant of Richard Gibbs, Lord Wraxall, at Moat House Farm, near Bristol, which Bush operated as a dairy farm. In 1962 he married Christina James, an art teacher, and they had four children. In 1968 Bush was elected onto the Somerset County Executive Committee of the National Farmers Union, and in 1980, he began a Farming and Wildlife Advisory Group to encourage farmers to conserve wildlife.\n\nAt Monkton Combe, Bush attended Christian Union meetings and \"asked God who I knew was out there, to forgive me and to come into my life, to be involved with everyday stuff, change me and use me\". Bush and wife became active at St. Philip and St. Jacob Church, helping to revive the church with a youth program. In 1967 Bush became a member of the Anglican Church Assembly, and in 1974 he and his wife established the Bristol Family Life Association, which lobbied on behalf of marriage education and against the use of obscenities on television. Later, the Bushes established Marriage Repair, a counselling service. In 1982, Bush became director of Mission England, which organised a Billy Graham evangelistic campaign in 1985 at Ashton Gate Stadium. In 1987, Bush helped found the African relief agency, Send a Cow.\n\nIn 1995 the Bushes purchased Moat House Farm from Wraxall, sold the Friesian herd, and converted the farm's to arable land and sheep raising. Bush began to consider creating a Noah's Ark theme park in 1997; and in 1998, he constructed a barn, a café, a toilet block, and a children's play area. The park opened for a trial run in August 1998 and permanently in 1999. At first it exhibited farm and small domestic animals as well as some exotic species such as alpacas and llamas. The collection later expanded to include tigers, African lions, white rhinos, siamang gibbons, and ring-tailed lemurs. In April 2009, a zoo webcam showed the live birth of a male Brazilian tapir.\n\nIn September 2012, the zoo began building an elephant sanctuary of , and the first elephant arrived in February 2014. Before construction of the sanctuary the Born Free Foundation, which opposes holding elephants in captivity, said the acreage was too small for the purpose. The enclosure consists of a area where the elephants can sleep or shelter from the rain, and a outdoor area with a heated swimming pool. The £1.8m development was partly funded by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and uses solar PV, biomass heating, and rainwater harvesting to provide nearly all power needed to operate the enclosure. An adjacent farm provides most of the food for the elephants.\n\nIn 2015, Noah’s Ark joined the European Endangered Species Programme (EEP), which oversees management and conservation of protected species. The zoo is home to two spectacled bears (also called Andean bears), who arrived in 2016.\n\nBush and the zoo promote belief in a form of creationism as well as the Genesis flood myth and explicate these beliefs at length at \"earthhistory.org.uk\". Bush does not accept flood geology, a Young Earth Creationist belief that the flood described in Genesis 6-8 was an actual event that produced most fossil bearing geological strata; rather he believes the earth to be about 100,000 years old, older than the 6,000 to 10,000 years that Young Earth creationists believe it to be but much younger than its actual age of 4.54 billion years.\n\nPhysical anthropologist Alice Roberts, professor of Public Engagement in Science at the University of Birmingham said the zoo had \"absolutely nothing to do with science education\" but noted of her visit that she saw little evidence of creationism until she entered a \"large barn in the middle of the complex, which houses an auditorium and an impressive indoor children's play area,\" where she found many displays promoting creationism.\n\nThe zoo has been criticised by the British Centre for Science Education for \"contradicting vast swaths of science needed to pass public examinations\" (contrary to its claim that it supported the National Curriculum) and by Ben Goldacre, author of the \"Bad Science\" column of \"The Guardian\". In August 2009, the British Humanist Association (after 2017 Humanists UK) urged tourist boards to stop promoting the zoo on grounds that it would \"undermine education and the teaching of science\", a campaign continued as recently as February 2014. (In June 2015, the BHA named Alice Roberts \"Humanist of the Year\", in part because she had spearheaded its complaint against Noah's Ark Zoo.) In a letter to the Anglican \"Church Times\", the Rev. Michael Roberts, an authority on Darwin and geology and a long-time opponent of the teaching of creationism in schools, argued that the British Humanist Association was justified in criticising the zoo and that \"church groups should have been more forthright in their criticism\".\n\nIn October 2009 the BBC and the Captive Animals Protection Society charged that the zoo's tigers and camels belonged to the now defunct Great British Circus owned by Martin Lacey; and the zoo admitted a number of animals were on loan from Lacey, though none had taken part in any circus performances. In December 2009, BIAZA stripped the zoo of its membership for what it claimed was a refusal of Noah's Ark to provide BIAZA requested information and for bringing \"the association into disrepute.\" In 2018, the zoo regained membership in BIAZA.<https://biaza.org.uk/members/all>.\n\nAlso in 2009, the Western Animal Rights Network (WARN) and the Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS) said that the zoo had culled healthy chickens. CAPS claimed that the zoo regularly culled animals during winter months to reduce costs. The zoo explained that it had euthanised some chickens to protect the quality of its flock. A March 2010 report of an investigation by North Somerset Council called the CAPS allegations \"grossly unfair\", though because zoo inspectors found some failures to comply with the Secretary of State's Standards of Modern Zoo Practice, tighter licence conditions were imposed on the zoo, including inspection by independent veterinarians every six months.\n\n\nThe zoo's hedge maze, planted in 2003, is long.\n"}
{"id": "7660889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7660889", "title": "Persecution of Buddhists", "text": "Persecution of Buddhists\n\nMany Buddhists have experienced persecution because of their faith including unwarranted arrest, imprisonment, beating, torture, or execution. It also may refer to the confiscation or destruction of property, or the incitement of hatred towards Buddhists.\n\nIn 224 CE Zoroastrianism was made the official religion of the Persia, and other religions were not tolerated, thus halting the spread of Buddhism westwards. In the 3rd century the Sassanids overran the Bactrian region, overthrowing Kushan rule, were persecuted with many of their stupas fired. Although strong supporters of Zoroastrianism, the Sassanids tolerated Buddhism and allowed the construction of more Buddhist monasteries. It was during their rule that the Lokottaravada followers erected the two Buddha statues at Bamiyan.\n\nDuring the second half of the third century, the Zoroastrian high priest Kirder dominated the religious policy of the state. He ordered the destruction of several Buddhist monasteries in Afghanistan, since the amalgam of Buddhism and Zoroastrianism manifested in the form of a \"Buddha-Mazda\" deity appeared to him as heresy. Buddhism quickly recovered after his death.\n\nThe first alleged persecution of Buddhists in India took place in the 2nd century BC by King Pushyamitra Shunga. A non-contemporary Buddhist text states that Pushyamitra cruelly persecuted Buddhists. While some scholars believe he did persecute Buddhists based on the Buddhist accounts, others consider them biased because of him not patronising them. Many other scholars have expressed skepticism about the Buddhist claims. Étienne Lamotte points out that the Buddhist legends are not consistent about the location of Pushyamitra's anti-Buddhist campaign and his death: \"To judge from the documents, Pushyamitra must be acquitted through lack of proof.\" Agreeing with him, D. Devahuti states that Pushyamitra's sudden destruction after offering rewards for Buddhist heads is \"manifestly false\". R. C. Mitra states that \"The tales of persecution by Pushyamitra as recorded in \"Divyavadana\" and by Taranatha bear marks of evident absurdity.\"\n\nCentral Asian and North Western Indian Buddhism weakened in the 6th century following the White Hun invasion who followed their own religions such as Tengri and Manichaean. Around 440 CE they conquered Sogdiana then conquered Gandhara and pushed on into the Gangetic Plains. Their King Mihirkula who ruled from 515 CE suppressed Buddhism, destroying monasteries as far as modern-day Allahabad before his son reversed the policy.\n\nPersecution of Buddhism started as early as in the life or soon after the death of King Ashoka. D.N. Jha writes that according to Kashmiri texts dated to 12th century, Ashoka's Son Jalauka was shaivite and was responsible for the destruction of many Buddhist monasteries. The story of Jalauka is essentially legendary, and no independent corroboration of the Kashmir tradition has been discovered. Patanjali, a famous grammarian stated in his \"Mahabhashya\" that Brahmins and Sharamanas (buddhists) were eternal enemies With the emergence of Hindu rulers of Gupta empire Hinduism saw a major revivalism in the Indian subcontinent which challenged Buddhism which was at that time at its zenith. Even though Gupta empire was tolerant towards Buddhism and patronized Buddhist arts and religious institutions, Hindu revivalism generally became a major threat to Buddhism which led to its decline. A Buddhist illustrated palm leaf manuscript from Pala period (one of the earliest Indian illustrated manuscripts to survive in modern times) is preserved in University of Cambridge library. Composed in the year 1015, the manuscript contains a note from the year 1138 by a Buddhist believer called Karunavajra which indicates that without his efforts, the manuscript would have been destroyed during a political struggle for power. The note states that 'he rescued the \"'Perfection of Wisdom\", incomparable Mother of the Omniscient' from falling into the hands of unbelievers (who according to Camillo Formigatti were most probably people of Brahmanical affiliation).\n\nEmperor Wuzong of Tang (814-846) indulged in indiscriminate religious persecution, solving a financial crisis by seizing the property of Buddhist monasteries. Buddhism had developed into a major religious force in China during the Tang period, and its monasteries had tax-exempt status. Wuzong closed many Buddhist shrines, confiscated their property, and sent the monks and nuns home to lay life. Apart from economic reasons, Wuzong's motivation was also philosophical or ideological. As a zealous Taoist, he considered Buddhism a foreign religion that was harmful to Chinese society. He went after other foreign religions as well, all but eradicating Zoroastrianism and Manichaeism in China, and his persecution of the growing Nestorian Christian churches sent Chinese Christianity into a decline from which it never recovered.\n\nLangdarma was a Tibetan King, who reigned from 838-841 CE. He is believed to have been anti-Buddhist and a follower of the Bön religion.\n\nThe Oirats (Western Mongols) converted to Tibetan Buddhism around 1615. The Dzungars were a confederation of several Oirat tribes that emerged suddenly in the early 17th century. The Dzungar Khanate was the last great nomadic empire in Asia. In the 18th century, the Dzungars were annihilated by Qianlong Emperor in several campaigns. About 80% of the Dzungar population, or around 500,000 to 800,000 people, were killed during or after the Zunghar Genocide by Manchu Bannermen and Khalkha Mongols during the Manchu conquest in 1755-1757.\n\nThe Kalmyk Khanate was founded in the 17th century with Tibetan Buddhism as its main religion, following the earlier migration of the Oirats from Dzungaria through Central Asia to the steppe around the mouth of the Volga River. During the course of the 18th century, they were absorbed by the Russian Empire, which was then expanding to the south and east. The Russian Orthodox church pressured many Kalmyks to adopt Orthodoxy. In the winter of 1770-1771, about 300,000 Kalmyks set out to return to China. Their goal was to retake control of Dzungaria from the Qing dynasty of China. Along the way many were attacked and killed by Kazakhs and Kyrgyz, their historical enemies based on intertribal competition for land, and many more died of starvation and disease. After several months of travel, only one-third of the original group reached Dzungaria and had no choice but to surrender to the Qing upon arrival.\n\nQutaybah ibn Muslim, the Arab general of Khorasan conquered a number of territories in Central Asia including Samarkand where he broke a number of images. Several instances of Buddhist shrines being destroyed by the advancing Muslims are recorded though the religion continued to survive in some places for a considerable period of time. Bertolf Spuler cites the writings of Narshakhi while stating that the residents of Bukhara had reconverted from Islam to Buddhism four times until it was conquered by Qutayba in 712-13. A mosque was built in the city in place of a Buddhist monastery. Buddhists continued to live there until the tenth century. Similarly, Buddhism continued to exist in other places like Old Bukhara, Simingan in southern Tukharistan, Bamiyan and Kabul with suburbs inhabited by \"Indians\" which were also home to Buddhists. However, the religion could no longer develop as a power or distribute propaganda and its adherents also had to abandon the conversion of peoples in these regions. Scholars like Richard Nelson Frye have doubted the story of Marshaki, pointing out that unlike its statement, Qutayba ibn Muslim didn't live during the time of Umayyad Caliph Mu'awiya, as this story suggests, but rather much later. In addition to discrimination, emigration, and the conversion of the laity, Buddhism and its monasteries also declined with the Muslims taking over the trade along the Silk Road as well as in Sindh.\n\nDuring their conquest of Sindh, the Arabs brought the non-Muslims into the category of \"ahl al-kitab\", considering them \"ahl al-dhimmah\" (protected subjects) and thus practicing a certain amount of non-interference in their religious lives under the condition that they fulfil a number of obligations that came with this status. Since both Buddhism and Hinduism are literate religions with scriptures, the precedent of assimilating Zoroastrians into the category of \"ahl al-kitab\" was extended to them as well. The \"dhimmis\" were obligated to pay the jizya for following their ancestral religion. The historian Al-Baladhuri notes a decision by Muhammad bin Qasim in relation to a Buddhist vihara and Aror that after conquering the city through a treaty (\"sulh\") he agreed not to kill the people and enter their temple, in addition to imposing kharaj on them. The Buddhists had petitioned the Arabs for the right to restore one of their temples and it was granted by Al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf. However, this decision was later violated by the Pact of Umar and subsequent Muslim law codes which prohibited the restoration of existing non-Muslim religious structures as well as the building of new ones. Despite this fact, Buddhist inscriptions were still being recorded in the eleventh century. Some Buddhists also fled and emigrated from Muslim-ruled areas into other regions. Unlike Brahmanical worship, Buddhism rapidly declined in Sindh after the eighth century and it virtually disappeared by the eleventh century.\n\nThe Arabs conquered Balkh which was a centre of Buddhism. Many people in Balkh were sympathetic to Buddhism after the conquest and they were harshly denounced by adherents of Islamic orthodoxy. The Buddhist monastery of Nava Vihara which had become a symbol of national resistance was damaged under Muawiyah I in 663. The Arabs allowed the non-Muslims to practice their religion as long as they paid the poll-tax called jizya. In addition to the destruction of Buddhist temples, part of the old city was also destroyed during the Arab conquest. Nava Vihara continued to remain open according to historical accounts. Along with it, many other viharas evidently continued to function in Central Asia for at least a century after the Arab conquests. Al-Biruni records the existence of the religion and its monasteries in the early eleventh century. The eighth-century Korean traveller Hui'Chao records Hinayanists in Balkh under Arab rule. The city was reduced to ruins by 705 as a result of frequent revolts.\n\nIt is visible from some copper-plate inscriptions that some Buddhists had moved to other domains. Al-Ma'mun (r. 813-833 A.D.) while visiting Khorasan, launched an attack on Kabul, whose ruler submitted to taxation. The king of Kabul was captured and he then converted to Islam. Per sources, when the Shah submitted to al-Ma'mun, he sent his crown and bejeweled throne, later seen by the Meccan historian al-Azraqi to the Caliph who praised Fadl for \"curbing polytheists, breaking idols, killing the refractory\" and refers to his successes against Kabul's king and \"ispahabad\". Other near-contemporary sources however refer to the artifacts as a golden jewel-encrusted idol sitting on a silver throne by the Hindu Shahi ruler or by an unnamed ruler of \"Tibet\" as a sign of his conversion to Islam.\n\nVarious personages involved in the revival of Buddhism in India such as Anagarika Dharmapala and The Mahabodhi Movement of the 1890s as well as Dr. B. R. Ambedkar hold the Muslim Rule in India responsible for the decay of Buddhism in India.\n\nIn 1193, Qutb-ud-din Aybak, a Turkish commander, seized control of Delhi, leaving defenseless the northeastern territories that were the heart of Buddhist India. The Mahabodhi Temple was almost completely destroyed by the invading Muslim forces. One of Qutb-ud-Din's generals, Ikhtiar Uddin Muhammad Bin Bakhtiyar Khilji, invaded Magadha and destroyed the Buddhist shrines at Nalanda. The Buddhism of Magadha underwent a significant decline under Khilji.\n\nIn 1200 Muhammad Khilji, one of Qutb-ud-Din's generals destroyed monasteries fortified by the Sena armies, such as the one at Vikramshila. Many monuments of ancient Indian civilization were destroyed by the invading armies, including Buddhist sanctuaries near Benares. Buddhist monks who escaped the massacre fled to Nepal, Tibet and South India.\n\nTimur destroyed Buddhist establishments and raided areas in which Buddhism had flourished.\n\nMughal rule also contributed to the decline of Buddhism. They are reported to have destroyed many Hindu temples and Buddhist shrines alike or converted many sacred Hindu places into Muslim shrines and mosques. Mughal rulers like Aurangzeb destroyed Buddhist temples and monasteries and replaced them with mosques.\n\nThe Saffarids had sent looted Buddhist and Hindu icons to the Abbasids as gifts. The Mongol ruler Ghazan called on Buddhists to convert to Islam or leave the Ilkhanate and ordered their temples to be destroyed, but he later adopted a slightly less severe position. Though he had earlier supported their persecution as well as the persecution of other non-Muslims, his religious policies changed after the death of Nowruz with punishments imposed on perpetrators of religious intolerance and attempts to restore relations with non-Muslims. Although the religion survived there, it never recovered from the assault by Ghazan.\n\nThe historical area of what is modern day Xinjiang consisted of the distinct areas of the Tarim Basin and Dzungaria, and was originally populated by Indo-European Tocharian and Iranic Saka peoples who practiced the Buddhist religion. The area was subjected to Turkification and Islamification at the hands of invading Turkic Muslims.\n\nThe Islamic attacks and conquest of the Buddhist cities east of Kashgar was started by the Turkic Karakhanid Satok Bughra Khan who in 966 converted to Islam and many tales emerged about the Karakhanid ruling family's war against the Buddhists, Satok Bughra Khan's nephew or grandson Ali Arslan was slain by the Buddhists during the war. Buddhism lost territory to Islam during the Karakhanid reign around the Kashgar area. A long war ensued between Islamic Kashgar and Buddhist Khotan which eventually ended in the conquest of Khotan by Kashgar.\n\nIranic Saka peoples originally inhabited Yarkand and Kashgar in ancient times. The Buddhist Iranic Saka Kingdom of Khotan was the only city-state that was not conquered yet by the Turkic Uyghur (Buddhist) and the Turkic Qarakhanid (Muslim) states and its ruling family used Indian names and the population were devout Buddhists. The Buddhist entitites of Dunhuang and Khotan had a tight-knit partnership, with intermarriage between Dunhuang and Khotan's rulers and Dunhuang's Mogao grottos and Buddhist temples being funded and sponsored by the Khotan royals, whose likenesses were drawn in the Mogao grottoes. The rulers of Khotan were aware of the menace they faced since they arranged for the Mogao grottoes to paint a growing number of divine figures along with themselves. Halfway in the 20th century Khotan came under attack by the Qarakhanid ruler Musa, and in what proved to be a pivotal moment in the Turkification and Islamification of the Tarim Basin, the Karakhanid leader Yusuf Qadir Khan conquered Khotan around 1006.\n\nThe Taẕkirah is a genre of literature written about Sufi Muslim saints in Altishahr. Written sometime in the period from 1700-1849, the Eastern Turkic language (modern Uyghur) \" Taẕkirah of the Four Sacrificed Imams\" provides an account of the Muslim Karakhanid war against the Khotanese Buddhists, containing a story about Imams, from Mada'in city (possibly in modern-day Iraq) came 4 Imams who travelled to help the Islamic conquest of Khotan, Yarkand, and Kashgar by Yusuf Qadir Khan, the Qarakhanid leader. Accounts of the battles waged by the invading Muslims upon the indigenous Buddhists takes up most of the Taẕkirah with descriptions such as \"blood flows like the Oxus\", \"heads litter the battlefield like stones\" being used to describe the murderous battles over the years until the \"infidels\" were defeated and driven towards Khotan by Yusuf Qadir Khan and the four Imams, but the Imams were assassinated by the Buddhists prior to the last Muslim victory so Yusuf Qadir Khan assigned Khizr Baba, who was born in Khotan but whose mother originated from western Turkestan's Mawarannahr, to take care of the shrine of the 4 Imams at their tomb and after Yusuf Qadir Khan's conquest of new land in Altishahr towards the east, he adopted the title \"King of the East and China\". Due to the Imams deaths in battle and burial in Khotan, Altishahr, despite their foreign origins, they are viewed as local saints by the current Muslim population in the region.\n\nMuslim works such as Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam contained anti-Buddhist rhetoric and polemic against Buddhist Khotan, aimed at \"dehumanizing\" the Khotanese Buddhists, and the Muslims Kara-Khanids conquered Khotan just 26 years following the completion of Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam.\n\nMuslims gouged the eyes of Buddhist murals along Silk Road caves and Kashgari recorded in his Turkic dictionary an anti-Buddhist poem/folk song.\n\nSatuq Bughra Khan and his son directed endeavors to proselytize Islam among the Turks and engage in military conquests. The Islamic conquest of Khotan led to alarm in the east and Dunhuang's Cave 17, which contained Khotanese literary works, was closed shut possibly after its caretakers heard that Khotan's Buddhist buildings were razed by the Muslims, and Khotan had suddenly ceased to be Buddhist.\n\nIn 1006, the Muslim Kara-Khanid ruler Yusuf Kadir (Qadir) Khan of Kashgar conquered Khotan, ending Khotan's existence as an independent state. The war was described as a Muslim Jihad (holy war) by the Japanese Professor Takao Moriyasu. The Karakhanid Turkic Muslim writer Mahmud al-Kashgari recorded a short Turkic language poem about the conquest:\n\nEnglish translation:\n\n<poem>\nWe came down on them like a flood,\nWe went out among their cities,\nWe tore down the idol-temples,\nWe shat on the Buddha's head!\n</poem>\n\nIn Turkic:\n\n<poem>\n\"kälginläyü aqtïmïz\"\n\"kändlär üzä čïqtïmïz\"\n\"furxan ävin yïqtïmïz\"\n\"burxan üzä sïčtïmïz\"\n</poem>\n\nIdols of \"infidels\" were subjected to desecration by being defecated upon by Muslims when the \"infidel\" country was conquered by the Muslims, according to Muslim tradition.\n\nThe Buddhist Uyghurs of the Kingdom of Qocho and Turfan were converted to Islam by conquest during a ghazat (holy war) at the hands of the Muslim Chagatai Khizr Khwaja.\n\nKara Del was a Mongolian ruled and Uighur populated Buddhist Kingdom. The Muslim Chagatai Khan Mansur invaded and used the sword to make the population convert to Islam.\n\nAfter being converted to Islam, the descendants of the previously Buddhist Uyghurs in Turfan failed to retain memory of their ancestral legacy and falsely believed that the \"infidel Kalmuks\" (Dzungars) were the ones who built Buddhist monuments in their area.\n\nBuddhist monks were forced to return to the laity, Buddhist property was confiscated, Buddhist institutions were closed, and Buddhist schools were reorganized under state control in the name of modernizing Japan during the early Meiji period. The state-control of Buddhism was part of Imperial Japanese policy both at home and abroad in Korea and other conquered territories.\n\nThe Government of Myanmar has attempted to control Buddhist institutions through coercive means, including the intimidation, torture, and murder of monks. After monks played an active role in the protest movements against the military dictatorship in 2007, the state cracked down on Buddhist monks and monasteries.\n\nDuring the Northern Expedition, in 1926 in Guangxi, Kuomintang Muslim General Bai Chongxi led his troops in destroying Buddhist temples and smashing idols, turning the temples into schools and Kuomintang party headquarters. It was reported that almost all Buddhist monasteries in Guangxi were destroyed by Bai in this manner. The monks were removed. Bai led a wave of anti foreignism in Guangxi, attacking Americans, Europeans, and other foreigners and missionaries, and generally making the province unsafe for foreigners. Westerners fled from the province, and some Chinese Christians were also attacked as imperialist agents. The three goals of his movement were anti-foreignism, anti-imperialism, and anti-religion. Bai led the anti-religious movement, against superstition. Muslims do not believe in superstition (see Shirk (Islam)) and his religion may have influenced Bai to take action against the Idols in the temples and the superstitious practices rampant in China. Huang Shaoxiong, also a Kuomintang member of the New Guangxi Clique, supported Bai's campaign, and Huang was not a Muslim, the anti religious campaign was agreed upon by all Guangxi Kuomintang members.\n\nDuring the Kuomintang Pacification of Qinghai the Muslim General Ma Bufang destroyed Tibetan Buddhist monasteries with support from the Kuomintang government. Ma served as a general in the National Revolutionary Army, and sought to expand the Republic of China's control over all of Qinghai, as well as the possibility of bringing Tibet back into the Republic by force. When Ma Bufang launched seven expeditions into Golog, killing thousands of Tibetans, the Republic of China government, known as the Kuomintang, supported Ma Bufang. Ma was highly anti-communist, and he and his army wiped out many Tibetans in the northeast and eastern Qinghai, and destroyed Tibetan Buddhist temples.\nThe Muslim Mughal emperor, Aurangzeb, tried to use heavy artillery to destroy the statues. Another attempt to destroy the Bamiyan statues was made by the 18th century Persian king Nader Afshar, who directed cannon fire at them.\n\nThe enormous statues, the male Salsal (\"light shines through the universe\") and the (smaller) female Shamama (\"Queen Mother\"), as they were called by the locals, did not fail to fire the imagination of Islamic writers in centuries past. The larger statue reappears as the malevolent giant Salsal in medieval Turkish tales.\n\nAfghan Muslim King Abdur Rahman Khan destroyed its face during a military campaign against the Shia Hazara rebellion. A Frenchman named Dureau had pictured it in 1847.\n\nThe Bamiyan Buddhas were destroyed by the fundamentalist Islamist Taliban regime in 2001 in defiance of worldwide condemnation. The statues were blown up and fired upon by rockets and gunfire.\n\nExcavators at the Buddhist site of Mes Aynak have been denounced as \"promoting Buddhism\" and threatened by the Taliban and many of the Afghan excavators who are working for purely financial reasons don't feel any connection to the Buddhist artifacts.\n\nSwat Valley in Pakistan has many Buddhist carvings, stupas and Jehanabad contains a Seated Buddha statue. Kushan era Buddhist stupas and statues in Swat valley were demolished by the Taliban and after two attempts by the Taliban, the Jehanabad Buddha's face was dynamited. Only the Bamiyan Buddhas were larger than the carved giant Buddha status in Swat near Mangalore which the Taliban attacked. The government did nothing to safeguard the statue after the initial attempt at destroying the Buddha, which did not cause permanent harm, and when the second attack took place on the statue the feet, shoulders, and face were demolished. Islamists such as the Taliban and looters destroyed much of Pakistan's Buddhist artifacts left over from the Buddhist Gandhara civilization especially in Swat Valley. The Taliban deliberately targeted Gandhara Buddhist relics for destruction. The Christian Archbishop of Lahore Lawrence John Saldanha wrote a letter to Pakistan's government denouncing the Taliban activities in Swat Valley including their destruction of Buddha statues and their attacks on Christians, Sikhs, and Hindus. Gandhara Buddhist artifacts were illegally looted by smugglers. A rehabilitation attempt on the Buddha was made by Luca Olivieri from Italy. A group of Italians helped repair the Buddha.\n\nIn Bangladesh, the persecution of the indigenous tribes of the Chittagong Hill Tracts such as the Chakma, Marma, Tripura and others who are mainly Buddhists, Hindus, Christians, and Animists, has been described as genocidal. The Chittagong Hill Tracts are located bordering India, Myanmar and the Bay of Bengal, and is the home to 500,000 indigenous people. The perpetrators of are the Bangladeshi military and the Bengali Muslim settlers, who together have burned down Buddhist and Hindu temples, killed many Chakmas, and carried out a policy of gang-rape against the indigenous people. There are also accusations of Chakmas being forced to convert to Islam, many of them children who have been abducted for this purpose. The conflict started soon after Bangladeshi independence in 1972 when the Constitution imposed Bengali as the sole official language, Islam as the state religion - with no cultural or linguistic rights to minority populations. Subsequently, the government encouraged and sponsored massive settlement by Bangladeshis in region, which changed the demographics from 98 percent indigenous in 1971 to fifty percent by 2000. The government allocated a full third of the Bangladeshi military to the region to support the settlers, sparking a protracted guerilla war between Hill tribes and the military. During this conflict which officially ended in 1997, and in the subsequent period, a large number of human rights violations against the indigenous peoples have been reported, with violence against indigenous women being particularly extreme.\n\nDuring the 2012 Ramu violence a 25,000-strong mob set fire to at least five temples and dozens of homes throughout the town and surrounding villages after seeing the picture, which they claimed was posted by Uttam Barua, a local Buddhist man, AFP reported.\n\nBengali settlers and soldiers have raped native Jumma (Chakma) women \"with impunity\" with the Bangladeshi security forces doing little to protect the Jummas and instead assisting the rapists and settlers. The settlers are Muslims. The Karuna Bihar Buddhist temple was attacked by Bengali settlers.\n\nThe Ladakh Buddhist Association has said: \"There is a deliberate and organised design to convert Kargil's Buddhists to Islam. In the last four years, about 50 girls and married women with children were taken and converted from village Wakha alone. If this continues unchecked, we fear that Buddhists will be wiped out from Kargil in the next two decades or so. Anyone objecting to such allurement and conversions is harassed.\"\n\nThe destruction of the Buddhist artifacts by Islamists took place on the day in which Mohamed Nasheed was toppled as President in a coup.\n\nBuddhist antiquities were obliterated by Islamist radicals in the National Museum. The Museum was stormed by Islamists who destroyed the Buddhist artifacts.\n\nThe non Muslim artifacts of Buddhist provenance were specifically singled out by the attackers. The destruction was caught on camera.\n\nMost of Maldive's Buddhist physical history was obliterated.\n\nHindu artifacts were also targeted for obliteration and the actions have been compared to the attacks on the Buddhas of Bamiyan by the Taliban.\n\nFebruary 7, 2012 was the date of the anti-Buddhist attack by the Islamists.\n\nThe violence and long lasting tension was reignited on the 28th of May 2012. It was reported that daughter of U Hla Tin, of Thabyechaung Village named Ma Thida Htwe aged 27 was raped then killed by three Muslim men. These men were later arrested.\n\nTensions between Buddhist and Muslim ethnic groups flared into violent clashes in Meiktila, Mandalay Division in 2013. The violence started on 20 March after a Muslim gold shop owner, his wife, and two Muslim employees assaulted a Buddhist customer and her husband in an argument over a golden hairpin. A large Buddhist mob formed and began to destroy the shop. The heavily outnumbered police reportedly told the mob to disperse after they had destroyed the shop.\n\nOn the same day, a local Buddhist monk passing on the back of a motorbike was attacked by four Muslims. According to witnesses, the driver was attacked with a sword, causing him to crash, while the monk was also hit in the head with the sword. Per a witness, one of the men doused the monk woth fuel and burnt him alive. The monk died in the hospital. The killing of the monk caused the relatively contained situation to explode, greatly increasing intensity and violence.\n\nPrimarily Buddhist Thailand has been involved in a fight with Muslim insurgents in the South. Buddhists have been beheaded and clergy and teachers are frequently threatened with death. Shootings of Buddhists are quite frequent in the South, as are bombings, and attacks on religious establishments.\n\nDuring the Kumul Rebellion in Xinjiang in the 1930s, Buddhist murals were deliberately vandalized by Muslims.\n\nBuddhist murals at the Bezeklik Thousand Buddha Caves were damaged by local Muslim population whose religion proscribed figurative images of sentient beings, the eyes and mouths in particular were often gouged out. Pieces of murals were also broken off for use as fertilizer by the locals.\n\nUyghur Muslim opposition to a Buddhist Aspara statue in Ürümqi in Xinjiang was cited as a possible reason for its destruction in 2012. A Muslim Kazakh viewed a giant Buddha statue near Ürümqi as \"alien cultural symbols\".\n\nAfter the defeat of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, acid was thrown on two Sinhalese men. The attack was linked to Tamils.\n\nBuddhist monks have been assaulted in India, particularly by Tamils.\n\nDuring the Sri Lankan Civil War, Buddhists were the victims of many terrorist attacks perpetrated by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, which was made up of mostly Hindus but consisted of Christians too. During this period, the pinnacle of Buddhists; the Temple of the Tooth, where the sacred tooth relic of the Lord Buddha is kept and worshiped was attacked by the LTTE. 17 including a 2-year old infant were killed in the incident.In the Anuradhapura massacre, LTTE cadres drove to the Sri Maha Bodhi shrine and gunned down nuns, monks and civilians as they were worshipping inside the Buddhist shrine. 146 Sinhalese men, women and children were killed in Anuradhapura. The Aranthalawa Massacre was the killing of 33 Buddhist monks and four civilians by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. The sacred Bo tree that relates to the Acetic tree, under which the Buddha attained Buddhahood was also attacked by the said terrorist group, killing around three hundred pilgrims.\n\nThe National Socialist Council of Nagaland has been accused of demanding money and food from Buddhists living along the Assam-Arunachal border. It has also been accused by Buddhists of forcing locals to convert to Christianity. The NSCN is also suspected of burning down the Rangphra temple in Arunachal Pradesh.\n\nThe National Liberation Front of Tripura has shut down and attacked Hindu and Buddhist orphanages, hospitals, temples and schools in Tripura. They have also been accused of force converting Buddhists to Christianity.\n\nA mass scale ethnic riot was initiated by the Baptist Church in Tripura in 1980 by which both Hindu and Buddhist tribes faced systematic ethnic cleansing. Thousands of women kidnapped and then raped and even forced to convert to Christianity. Reports state that the terrorists received aid from international Christian groups. The Christian tribals also received aid from the NLFT. This was the state's worst ethnic riot.\n\nBuddhist Kalmyk people\n\nSome South Korean Buddhists have denounced what they view as discriminatory measures against them and their religion by the administration of President Lee Myung-bak, which they attribute to Lee being part of the Somang Presbyterian Church in Seoul.\n\nThe Buddhist Jogye Order has accused the Lee government of discriminating against Buddhism and favoring Christianity by ignoring certain Buddhist temples but including Christian churches in certain public documents. In 2006, according to the \"Asia Times\", \"Lee also sent a video prayer message to a Christian rally held in the southern city of Busan in which the worship leader prayed feverishly: 'Lord, let the Buddhist temples in this country crumble down!'\" Further, according to an article in \"Buddhist-Christian Studies\": \"Over the course of the last decade [1990s] a fairly large number of Buddhist temples in South Korea have been destroyed or damaged by fire by misguided Christian fundamentalists. More recently, Buddhist statues have been identified as idols, and attacked and decapitated in the name of Jesus. Arrests are hard to effect, as the arsonists and vandals work by stealth of night.\" A 2008 incident in which police investigated protesters who had been given sanctuary in the Jogye temple in Seoul and searched a car driven by Jigwan, executive chief of the Jogye order, led to protests by Buddhists who claimed that police had treated Jigwan as a criminal.\n\nIn March 2009, in an effort to reach out to Buddhists affected by recent events, the President and First Lady participated in a Korean Buddhist conference where he and his wife were seen joining palms in prayer during chanting along with participants. The discomfort among the Buddhists has gradually decreased since then.\n\nUnder British rule, Christians were openly favoured for jobs and promotions.\nRobert Inglis, a 19th-century British Conservative, likened Buddhism to \"idolatry\" during a parliamentary debate over the relationship of \"Buddhist priests\" to the British colonial government, in 1852. During the Sri Lankan Civil War, Buddhists were the victims of many terrorist attacks perpetrated by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, which was made up of mostly Hindus but consisted of Christians too. During this period, the pinnacle of Buddhists; the Temple of the Tooth, where the sacred tooth relic of the Lord Buddha is kept and worshiped was attacked by the LTTE. The sacred Bo tree that relates to the Acetic tree, under which the Buddha attained Buddhahood was also attacked by the said terrorist group, killing around three hundred pilgrims.\n\nAs early as 1953 rumoured allegations had surfaced of discrimination against Buddhists in Vietnam. These allegations stated that Catholic Vietnamese armed by the French had been raiding villages. By 1961, the shelling of pagodas in Vietnam was being reported in the Australian and American media.\n\nAfter the Catholic Ngô Đình Diệm came to power in South Vietnam, backed by the United States, he favoured his relatives and co-religionists over Buddhists. Though Buddhists made up 80% of Vietnam's population, Catholics were given high positions in the army and civil service. Half of the 123 National Assembly members were Catholic. Buddhists also required special government permits to hold large meetings, a stipulation generally made for meetings of trade unions. In May 1963, the government forbade the flying of Buddhist flags on Vesak. After Buddhist protesters clashed with government troops, nine people were killed. In protest, the Buddhist monk Thích Quảng Đức burned himself to death in Saigon. On August 21, the Xá Lợi Pagoda raids led to a death toll estimated in the hundreds.\n\nThe banishment of Buddhist monks from Nepal was part of a government campaign to suppress the resurgence of Theravada Buddhism in Nepal in the early decades of the 20th century. There were two deportations of monks from Kathmandu, in 1926 and 1944.\n\nThe exiled monks were the first group of monks to be seen in Nepal since the 14th century. They were at the forefront of a movement to revive Theravada Buddhism which had disappeared from the country more than five hundred years ago. The Rana regime disapproved of Buddhism and Nepal Bhasa, the mother tongue of the Newar people. It saw the activities of the monks and their growing following as a threat. When police harassment and imprisonment failed to deter the monks, all of whom were Newars, they were deported.\n\nAmong the charges made against them were preaching a new faith, converting Hindus, encouraging women to renounce and thereby undermining family life and writing books in Nepal Bhasa.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge, which was basically Maoist, actively imposed an atheistic agrarian revolution, resulting in the persecution of ethnic minorities and Buddhist monks during their reign from 1975 to 1979. Buddhist institutions and temples were destroyed and Buddhist monks and teachers were killed in large numbers. A third of the nation's monasteries were destroyed along with numerous holy texts and items of high artistic quality. 25,000 Buddhist monks were massacred by the regime. Pol Pot believed that Buddhism was a decadent affectation, and he sought to eliminate its 1,500-year-old mark on Cambodia, while still maintaining the structures of the traditional Buddhist base.\n\nSince the communist revolution, Buddhism was severely restricted and brought under state-control at times. In addition, \"Marxist-Leninist atheism has been widely publicized, resulting in steadily decreasing religious communities\", especially in areas with developed economies. In 1989, less than 12% of the population held religious beliefs. During the Cultural Revolution, Buddhists were actively persecuted and sent for re-education, and temples, statues, and sutras were vandalized and destroyed. In recent years, Buddhism has been undergoing a revival but most Buddhist institutions are within the confines of the state.\n\nAlthough many temples and monasteries have been rebuilt after the cultural revolution, Tibetan Buddhists have largely been confined by the Government of the People's Republic of China. Buddhist monks and nuns have been reported tortured and killed by the Chinese military, according to all human rights groups. There were over 6,000 monasteries in Tibet, and nearly all of them were ransacked and destroyed by the Chinese communists, mainly during the Cultural Revolution. Analysis of a bulk of documents has shown that many Tibetan Buddhist monasteries were destroyed by the Chinese communists before the cultural revolution. Moreover, the \"Chinese Communist Party has launched a three-year drive to promote atheism in the Buddhist region of Tibet\", with Xiao Huaiyuan, a leader in the Chinese Communist Party Propaganda Department in Tibet, stating that it would \"help peasants and herdsmen free themselves from the negative influence of religion. Intensifying propaganda on atheism is especially important for Tibet because atheism plays an extremely important role in promoting economic construction, social advancement and socialist spiritual civilization in the region.\" He further said it would push \"people of all ethnic groups in the region to raise their ideological and ethical quality, to learn a civilized and healthy life style and to strive to build a united, prosperous and civilized new Tibet.\"\n\nBuddhist monks were persecuted in Mongolia during communist rule up until democratization in 1990. Khorloogiin Choibalsan declared 17,000 of the monks to be enemies of the state and deported them to Siberian labor camps, where many perished. Almost all of Mongolia's over 700 Buddhist monasteries were looted or destroyed.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, \"North Korea effectively exterminated all signs of Buddhism\" in the region.\n\nBeing a non-theistic religion, Buddhism initially enjoyed a compatible relationship with the State under the Soviet regime. Under the communists, Buddhism reached its peak in development; a \"Congress of Soviet Buddhists\" was formed under the leadership of Agvan Dordzhiev, and many Buddhists were also members of the League of the Militant Godless. However, after Stalin assumed power, the suppression of religious influences in society, including Buddhism, was increased. During Stalin's purges, thousands of Buddhist lamas and priests were sent to the gulags or executed. However, Soviet authorities grew more conciliatory toward Buddhists, allowing priests and monks to travel to study and establish contacts with Buddhist faithful. By 1998, long after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, adherents were attacked by interior ministry special troops who forcefully dispersed Buddhist monks who were involving themselves in regional politics. The Buddhists were trying to prevent unique Tibetan drawings from being sent on a year-long tour through American cities.\n\nDespite the communist regime's hostility, Buddhism is still widely practiced in Vietnam. According to \"Human Rights News\", \"Vietnam continues to systematically imprison and persecute independent Buddhists as well as followers of other religions.\" The leaders of the Unified Buddhist Congregation of Vietnam, Thích Huyền Quang and Thích Quảng Độ were imprisoned for decades. Thich Nhat Hanh has spoken out about the wiping out of his spiritual tradition in Vietnam.\n\n"}
{"id": "40913247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40913247", "title": "Prabhavakacarita", "text": "Prabhavakacarita\n\nPrabhāvakacarita is a Jain text devoted to history, composed by Prabhācandra, an \"acarya\" of the Svetambara tradition of Jainism in 1277-78. While Prabhāvakacarita is dedicated to the lives of Jain scholars of the Shvetambara tradition, it is often quoted in the context of contemporary history, often dealing with the time of Acharya Hemachandra. It is a major source of the information on the society in that era. Prabhāvakacarita includes a mention of use a parachute in ancient India.\n\nPrabhācandra mentions that he was inspired by the Hemachandra's Parishisthaparvan, which is an appendix to the Trishahsthi-Shalaka-Purusha-Charitra which stops at the account of Vajraswami. Prabhachandra gives accounts of acharyas from the first century of the Vikram era to 13th century, concluding with the account of Hemachandra. It gives an account of 22 acharyas, including Vajraswami, Kalaka, Haribhadra, Bapabhatti, Manatunga, Mahendra Suri (which includes an account of poet Dhanapala) and Hemachandra. It concludes by including a prashati of the author himself.\n"}
{"id": "2215807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2215807", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Beauvais", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Beauvais\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Beauvais, Noyon, and Senlis (Latin: \"Dioecesis Bellovacensis, Noviomensis et Silvanectensis\"; French: \"Diocèse de Beauvais, Noyon et Senlis\") is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church in France. The diocese encompasses the department of Oise in the region of Hauts-de-France. The diocese is a suffragan of the Archdiocese of Reims. The current bishop is Jacques Benoit-Gonnin, appointed in 2010.\n\nThe Diocese of Beauvais was founded in the 3rd century, by St. Lucian (Lucianus, Lucien), according to a story first told in the 9th century. Gregory of Tours, who wrote in the second half of the 6th century, however, never speaks of the diocese of Beauvais or of any of its bishops. Neither does the name of Beauvais appear in the documents of any church council down to 695. \n\nAfter 1015 each Bishop of Beauvais was simultaneously Count of Beauvais, and one of the Peers of France. Count Odo of Beauvais had given all of his lands in his county to Bishop Roger and the Church of Beauvais, with the consent of King Robert; he also made the bishop his heir to the county. The Bishop had a role in the coronation ceremony of the French king, and played a role in politics.\n\nBishop Roger II died during the First Crusade, Philip of Dreux was a participant in the Third Crusade and the Battle of Bouvines, and Pierre Cauchon was the leading judge in the trial of Jeanne d'Arc.\n\nBeginning in 1100, a five year long period of ecclesiastical, social and political discord descended upon Beauvais, involving eventually Bishop Ivo of Chartres, Archbishop Manasses of Reims, two papal legates, Joannes of Saint Anastasia and Benedict of Saint Pudenziana, King Philip I of France, and Pope Paschal II. On the death of Bishop Ansellus of Beauvais in November 1099, it became evident that there were two opposed parties in the business of the election of a successor. One was the majority of the Chapter and the secular clergy of the diocese, who were accommodated to the social system of society and preferred matters as they were; the other was led by the clergy of Saint-Quentin, who were seeking reform and greater rigor, and who looked to Ivo of Chartres, formerly a priest in Saint-Quentin, for advice and support. The Chapter chose as its candidate Étienne de Garlande, fourth son of Guillaume, Seneschal of France, a protegé of the excommunicated King Philip I and his mistress Bertrade, who were no doubt expecting Garlande's aid in solving their matrimonial problems. He was not in holy orders at all, and yet was Dean of Orleans and Archdeacon of Paris. The other candidate, supported by the monks of Saint-Quentin, was Walon (Gualon), abbot of Saint-Quentin. In the election, Étienne obtained exactly enough votes to form a majority.\n\nIt happened that the ecclesiastical Province of Reims was holding a synod at Soissons, and the leaders of the winning party, the Dean and Archdeacons of Beauvais, went to announce the election and request that letters be sent to the King and the Pope on Etienne's behalf, and they petitioned Lambert of Arras, the Papal Visitor in the province to write to Pope Paschal as well. The letter to Lambert seriously misrepresented the facts in stating that the election was nearly unanimous. The losing party enlisted Ivo of Chartres, who made a detailed investigation into the deeds and character of Étienne Garlande. He found that Garlande was not in holy orders, that he was illiterate and addicted to gambling, that he had a bad moral reputation, that he had been excommunicated by the Legate Hugh de Die for public incontenence (which made him ineligible for ecclesiastical office), and that his election had been intrigued at by laymen who were excommunicated. He then wrote both to the papal legates, Joannes and Benedict, and to the Pope himself.\n\nThe Pope took the case, and Étienne had to make the journey to Rome to clear his reputation. He failed, but on his return to France, he extorted a letter of recommendation from Ivo of Chartres. The Pope, however, was not fooled, and quashed the election. A new election was ordered, and Lambert of Arras was ordered to preside at the election. The canonically convoked assembly elected Walon (Gualon) the Abbot of Saint-Quentin. The King, however, refused to recognize the election, and Prince Louis made a statement to the effect that Walon would never be bishop of Beauvais, and that the King should install Étienne immediately, which was done. The Pope, however, ratified the election of Gualon, and issued a mandate to Archbishop Manasses of Reims to consecrate him. The Archbishop was a friend of the Court, though, and had crowned the excommunicated King. He procrastinated in taking action. Gualon, therefore, set out for Rome, where he so impressed the Pope that Paschal appointed him Apostolic Legate to Poland. In the meantime the Church of Beauvais sank into disorder, with two competing jurisdictions, that of the uncanonical and unconsecrated Étienne, and that of the Vicars appointed by the Chapter in the absence of a consecrated bishop. The King raged against the Chapter and exiled several of the Canons, and Ivo of Chartres consoled it with the knowledge that it was canonically justified.\n\nFinally, Ivo worked out a settlement with the King. Prince Louis held a meeting in Beauvais with the Chapter in January 1104, which brought peace to the city. Since the diocese of Paris happened to be vacant, the Pope authorized the transfer of bishop-elect Gualon to the diocese of Paris, and the seat of Beauvais was declared to be vacant. In December the King was reconciled to the Church, and his excommunication was lifted.\n\nA synod was held in Beauvais in 845, in the presence of King Charles the Bald, during a \"sede vacante\" of the See of Beauvais. The synod ratified the election of Hincmar as Archbishop of Reims.\n\nOn 6 December 1114 a Council was held in Beauvais, presided over by the Papal Legate Cardinal Kuno von Erach (Conon, Kono). The Archbishops of Reims, Bourges and Sens and their suffragans participated. The Emperor Henry V was again anathematized, along with the Bishop of Münster and Count Thomas de Marla, who enjoyed raving the areas of Laon, Reims and Amiens. The case of Bishop Geoffroy of Amiens, who had been driven from his city by the burghers, was discussed, and his resignation was submitted. The discovery of Manichaean heretics in the diocese of Soissons was discussed, but action was deferred until the next synod.\n\nCardinal Kuno von Erach held another synod in Beauvais, on 18 October 1120. The purpose was to decide on the sainthood of Bishop Arnulf of Soissons (died 1087). The synod accepted his sanctity and authorized the moving of his remains from the convent of Aldenbourg in the diocese of Tournai to the cathedral of Soissons.\n\nThere is a note in the \"Chronicon Malleacense\" that a council took place at Beauvais in 1124. Nothing at all is known about it.\n\nIn 1160 an important council was convoked at Beauvais by King Louis VII of France. The papal Conclave of 1159 had produced a schism between Pope Alexander III and the puppet of the Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, Octavianus de' Monticelli, Cardinal of S. Cecilia, who called himself Victor IV. The council agreed with the King that Alexander III was the true pope, a judgment that was confirmed in a joint meeting held by Louis VII and Henry II of England at Toulouse in the autumn of 1160.\n\nBeauvais, which was situated close to the frontier between English and French territories, was frequently subjected to attack and siege from the English and their allies, especially the Burgundians.\n\nThe celebrated Battle of Agincourt took place only a few miles north of Beauvais on 25 October 1417.\n\nOn 1 June 1427, Bishop Pierre Cauchon, who was a partisan of Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy, and no supporter of Charles VII, was one of the consecrators of Jacques du Chastellier, the English candidate for the bishopric of Paris. He fled from Beauvais as Charles' armies appeared in the area, led by Jeanne d'Arc (Joan of Arc). Cauchon took refuge in Rouen, where he was induced by the English to sit as judge in the trial of Joan, who had been captured on 23 May 1430. After a contentious trial he pronounced her guilty, and had her turned over to the secular authorities to be burned as an heretic. He also assisted at the coronation of the English King Henry VI in Paris on 17 December 1431.\n\nIn 1452 the case was reopened on orders of Pope Nicholas V by Cardinal Guillaume d'Estouteville, cousin of a former bishop of Beauvais, but the proceedings did not lead to a definitive conclusion. In 1455 they were begun again on orders of the new pope, Calixtus III, and the bishop of Beauvais at the time, Bishop Guillaume de Hellande, as successor of Pierre Cauchon, was required to provide defense attorneys to argue the case for Cauchon's right conduct. The court issued its judgment on 7 June 1456: \"We say, pronounce, decree and declare the said Processes and Sentences full of cozenage, iniquity, inconsequences, and manifest errors, in fact as well as in law. We say that they have been, and are, and shall be—as well as the aforesaid Abjuration, their execution, and all that followed—null, nonexistent, without value or effect.\"\n\nIn 1472 Beauvais was attacked and besieged by forces of the Duke of Burgundy. Their leader, Philippe de Crevecoeur, Sieur d'Esquerdes (des Cordes) launched the attack on 27 June, which broke through the fortifications and seized the faubourg de Saint-Quentin. Bishop Jean de Bar immediately mounted his horse and tried to leave the city, heading for Paris to obtain royal aid, but he was stopped by the defenders, who had orders to allow no one to leave the city. Matters were clarified, and the bishop was in Paris on July 1. He offered the leaders of the commune nearly 1,000 livres which the King had given for the construction of the cathedral. The Seigneur de Tressures had also ridden out and obtained several thousand troops from various sources, including Robert d'Estouteville, Provost of Paris. In the meantime, the church of Saint-Hippolyte, which had been taken by the besiegers, was destroyed by fire, and the episcopal palace, next to the ramparts, took fire in three places, perhaps by arson. Assaults continued through 6 July, at which there was a pause until the 9th. In the third assault, when the Burgundian standard was planted on the ramparts, a courageous Beauvasienne, Jeanne Hachette, grabbed it and threw it back down into the ditch, rallying the citizens to throw back the Burgundians, and even to mount a nighttime attack on the Burgundian camp which killed over 200, many of them officers. After losses of more than 3,000 men, the Duke of Burgundy abandoned the siege on 22 July. Three days later, the bishop celebrated a Mass. The Abbey of Saint-Quentin had been rendered uninhabitable.\n\nIn 875, Bishop Odo, with the consent of King Charles the Bald, as an act of considerable generosity, increased the number of Canons in the Cathedral of Saint-Pierre to fifty. Around the year 1320, the Cathedral was served by a Chapter composed of eight dignities (not 'dignitaries') and forty canons. The dignities were: the Dean (who was also Archdeacon of Bray), the Treasurer, the Archdeacon of Beauvais, the Archdeacon of Belvacinio, the Cantor, the Succentor, the Penitentiary, and the Chancellor. The Dean was elected by the Chapter, the others were episcopal appointments. By 1679 the dignities had been reduced to five.\n\nSix of the churches in Beauvais were also capitular churches: Saint-Nicolas (6 prebends), Saint-Bartholomew (7 prebends), Saint-Michel (13 prebends), Saint-Laurent (7 prebends), Nôtre-Dame du Châtel (12 prebends), and Saint-Vaast (11 prebends). These offices were all benefices, in the gift of the bishop or of the Chapter, and provided a regular income for the incumbents. These offices were a way of rewarding faithful followers. There was also a Collegiate Church at Geberoy (headed by a Dean, with 5 prebends, later 12 prebends).\n\nIn 1516 King Francis I signed at treaty with Pope Leo X, which has come to be called the Concordat of Bologna, in which the King and his successors acquired the right to nominate each and every one of the bishops in France, except those of the dioceses of Metz, Toul and Verdun.\n\nDuring the French Revolution the diocese of Beauvais was suppressed by the Legislative Assembly, under the Civil Constitution of the Clergy (1790). Its territory was subsumed into the new diocese, called 'Oise', which was coterminous with the new civil department of the same name. Oise was made part of the Metropolitanate called the 'Métropole des Cotes de la Manche'. The new Civil Constitution mandated that bishops be elected by the citizens of each 'département', which immediately raised the most severe issues in Canon Law, since the electors did not need to be Catholics and the approval of the Pope was not only not required, but actually forbidden. Erection of new dioceses and transfer of bishops, moreover, was not canonically in the competence of civil authorities or of the Church in France. The result was schism between the 'Constitutional Church' and the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe legitimate bishop of Beauvais, François-Joseph de la Rochefoucauld, declined to take the required oath to the Civil Constitution, and betook himself to Paris, where he was accused and arrested. He was imprisoned in the monastery of the Carmelites, along with his brother, Pierre Louis, who was Bishop of Saintes. Both were massacred on 2 September 1792.\n\nIn 1791 the electors of 'Oise' assembled and elected as their Constitutional Bishop a priest, Jean-Baptiste Massieu, who had been a teacher, first at Vernon, and then at Nancy. He became cure of Cergy near Pontoise in 1782, and was elected to the Estates General for the baillage of Senlis. He was in Paris at the time of his election, serving as an active member of the Ecclesiastical Committee which had drawn up the civil Constitution. He had just been elected secretary of the Legislative Assembly. He was consecrated at Notre-Dame de Paris on 6 March 1791 by Constitutional Bishop Jean-Baptiste Gobel, the seventh constitutional bishop to be consecrated. His behavior became more and more radical, during 1791 and 1792. He voted in favor of the execution of King Louis XVI. He resigned the priesthood and helped to organize the Terror. He married the daughter of the mayor of Givet, and presided at the Festivals of Reason. Complaints against him were so frequent, however, that he was delated to the Committee of Public Safety, and condemned on 9 August 1794. Somehow he escaped the guillotine and was pardoned in October 1794, and given a post as teacher in the school at Versailles. He had no successor in the Constitutional church, which he had helped to make universally loathed in the former diocese of Beauvais.\n\nThe territory of the former diocese of Beauvais was made part of the Diocese of Amiens when legitimate ecclesiastical government was restored in 1802. Church property, which had been confiscated for the public good by the Constitutional Assembly, was not restored. Bishops and priests therefore continued to be dependent upon salaries paid to them by the State, a practice which continued down until the Law of the Separation of the Churches and the State of 1905. The Diocese of Beauvais was re-established in 1822, and the Diocese of Beauvais, Noyon, and Senlis was created in 1851, comprising the territories of all three formerly separate dioceses. Beauvais Cathedral serves as the seat of the enlarged diocese.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4145695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4145695", "title": "Sacrament of Transition", "text": "Sacrament of Transition\n\nSacrament of Transition is a new religious movement based in Slovenia, based on and promoting the sacramental use of the psychoactive plant \"Tabernanthe iboga\" and its psychoactive chemical constituent ibogaine. The founder of Sacrament of Transition is Marko Resinovic. The organization routinely sponsors psychedelic-related conferences and meetings.\n\nSacrament of Transition has representatives from activist organizations such as the Students for Sensible Drug Policy and Million Marijuana March. Other affiliates include Patrick K. Kroupa, whom the group has made a high priest, and Dana Beal, founder of Cures Not Wars, the North American Apostolic Delegate. Discussing addiction and his ibogaine use at the Chapel of Sacred Mirrors in early 2006, Kroupa said that while psychedelics such as LSD might allow a user to become aware of the damage his addiction was doing, \"The flesh doesn't let you forget... But with ibogaine, the Light comes back down with you.\" The Sacrament of Transition actively proselytizes to heroin addicts with the message that ibogaine can help them. Besides the use of ibogaine as a sacrament, the Sacrament of Transition remains a heterodox body, with no other disclosed dogmas. Beal has maintained that Jesus consumed a mixture of ibogaine, Syrian rue, and cannabis during the Last Supper and the Passion.\n\n"}
{"id": "14751869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14751869", "title": "Shalom Buzaglo", "text": "Shalom Buzaglo\n\nShalom Ben Moses Buzaglo () (also Buzagli, Buzaglio) ( 1700 – 1780) was a Moroccan kabbalist born in Marrakesh and filled the position of dayyan. Owing to voyages in the Orient made in his capacity of collector of alms for the relief of the poor in Palestine, he became acquainted with the chief Kabbalists of the period. He also visited Europe, and sojourned for some time in London. He was tortured by the Sultan and left for England in 1745, where he remained until his death.\n\nAlthough his Kabbalistic works bear his name on the title-page, they are merely compilations of teachings attributed to Isaac Luria and Hayyim ben Joseph Vital. Buzaglio took part in the discussion, which arose among many Kabbalists, as to whether Jews should be allowed to undergo vaccination, which had been discovered shortly before that day. Buzaglio pronounced himself in favor of vaccination, but disputed the priority of Jenner in regard to its discovery.\n\n(1) \"Miḳdash Melek\" (The Sanctuary of the King), a commentary on the Zohar, published by Meldola (4 vols., Amsterdam, 1750);\n\n(2) \"Hadrat Melek\" (The Beauty of the King), a commentary on the Zohar, compiled from Isaac Luria and Ḥayyim Vital (2 vols., Amsterdam, 1766; London, 1772);\n\n(3) \"Kisse Melek\" (The Throne of the King), annotations on the Tiḳḳune Zohar (Amsterdam, 1769);\n\n(4) \"Hod Melek\" (The Majesty of the King), commentary on the book Zeni'uta of the Zohar (London, no date);\n\n(5) \"Sefer ha-Zohar\", notes on the Zohar, published together with the text (London, 1772);\n\n(6) \"Kebod Melek\" (The Honor of the King), a collection of Kabbalistic \"derashot\" (London, no date);\n\n(7) \"Ma'aseh she-Hayah Kak-Hayah\" (What Happened Was in This Fashion), report of the proceedings of a lawsuit (London, 1774);\n\n(8) \"Kunṭras Ma'aseh Adonai Ki Nora Hu\" (Fascicle on the Work of God, Which Is Majestic), an appeal to the public concerning the authority of Buzaglio's judgment in a lawsuit, in Hebrew and Judæo-German (London, 1774);\n\n(9) \"Tokaḥat le-Shobabim we-Taḳḳanah le-Shabim\" (Admonition for Transgressors and Rehabilitation for the Repentant), consisting of two letters to Israel Meshullam Solomon, also concerning Buzaglio's lawsuit (London, 1774).\n\nHe authored a number of commentaries on Zohar:\nThis is the first systematic commentary on the Zohar to be published.\n\n\"These were based mainly on Lurianic Kabbalah,\nincluding all the scattered work of Isaac Luria's disciples,\nwhich Buzaglo usually copied word for word,\noccasionally quoting other opinions.\nAlthough this book does not convey the literal meaning of the Zohar,\nit has continuing value for scholars.\"\nEncyclopaedia Judaica. Scholem, Bib. Kabbalistica, 188:15. Vinograd, Amsterdam, 1633. Zedner 163.\n\n"}
{"id": "31530167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31530167", "title": "Syed Mohammad Husaini", "text": "Syed Mohammad Husaini\n\n\"Maulana\" Syed Mohammad Husaini (1931-2013) was a senior Shia cleric and most prominent religious scholar of India. He was belonging to the renowned Qazi family of Banaras. He provided his valuable services to the Islam specially to the Shia community since an early age till last days of his life.\n\nMaulana Husaini started his religious education at Jamia-e-Imania, and completed it at Jamiul-Uloom Jawadia, obtaining the high degree of \"Fakhr-ul-Afazil\". He subsequently contributed to disseminating Islamic education and the teaching of Shia Theology. He achieved the re-establishment of the Jamia-e-Imania Banaras school in 1983.\n\nا\n\n"}
{"id": "3528218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3528218", "title": "The Beautiful People (song)", "text": "The Beautiful People (song)\n\n\"The Beautiful People\" is a song by American rock band Marilyn Manson. It was released as the lead single from the band's second studio album, \"Antichrist Superstar\" in September 1996. Classified as alternative metal, the song was written by frontman Marilyn Manson and Twiggy Ramirez, and was produced by Trent Reznor, Dave Ogilvie and Manson.\n\nThe title of the song comes from Marilyn Bender's 1967 book \"The Beautiful People\", about the lifestyles of the jet set In the context of the album's concept, the song refers to the privileged class of elites whom the titular character, a populist demagogue called \"Antichrist Superstar\", fulminate against. Lyrically, it discusses what Manson refers to as \"the culture of beauty\".\n\nThe single peaked at number 26 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart and remains known as one of Marilyn Manson's most famous and most successful original songs; in a 2004 review, Richard Banks of the BBC called the track \"still the most impressive\" in the band's catalogue, and in 2006 it was ranked at number 28 on VH1's 40 Greatest Metal Songs.\n\n\"The Beautiful People\" was written in 1994, with lyrics by Marilyn Manson and music by Twiggy Ramirez. The original demo version was written in a hotel room while on tour, and recorded to four-track by Manson, Ramirez, and drummer Ginger Fish. Manson recalled to \"Kerrang!\" magazine in May 2005: \"It was somewhere in the South, which is ironic. I remember playing the drum beat on the floor and then having my drummer duplicate that on the drum machine. It happened in one day pretty much\".\n\nThe title of the song comes from Marilyn Bender's 1967 book \"The Beautiful People\", which exposed the world of scandal within the \"jet-set\" lifestyle of the 1960s, and the culture of beauty as it pertained to fashion and politics.\n\nThe song is preceded with a few seconds of backwards-guitar feedback and electronic noise. It includes a heavily distorted spoken sample by Tex Watson, declaring \"[We would] swoop down on the town. . . [and] kill everyone that wasn't beautiful\".\n\nThe song is written in drop D tuning, and is built primarily out of power chords based on the notes of a diminished triad. It also incorporates extensive use of guitar distortion, and the use of palm muting creates a highly rhythmic, driving style amplified by a heavy percussion track. The song's characteristic element is its repetitive drum beat: a five-beat common time pattern played on floor toms, with a shuffle note each measure creating a triplet feel.\n\nSean Beavan, who mixed and co-produced \"Antichrist Superstar\", is credited with \"descending horn guitar\" on the track. Beavan can be heard playing a repeated descending figure with a brass instrument-like sound using a guitar synthesizer.\n\nLyrically, it is entwined with the \"Antichrist Superstar\" album's overarching theme, a semi-narrative examination of the Nietzschean Übermensch. Within this context, \"The Beautiful People\" deals explicitly with the destructive manifestation of the Will to Power (\"There's no time to discriminate / hate every motherfucker that's in your way\"), while also exploring Nietzsche's view of master-slave morality (\"It's not your fault that you're always wrong / The weak ones are there to justify the strong\"), particularly the concept's connection with Social Darwinism and its relation to various political and economic systems such as capitalism and fascism (\"Capitalism has made it this way/Old-fashioned fascism will take it away\").\n\n\"The Beautiful People\" was performed sporadically during the 1995–1996 Smells Like Children Tour, frequently in abbreviated form as part of the \"Portrait of an American Family\" song \"My Monkey\". It was \"officially\" premiered on October 3, 1996, at the State Theatre in Kalamazoo – the second show of the band's Dead to the World Tour.\n\nOn September 4, 1997, Marilyn Manson performed the song as the grand finale of the MTV Video Music Awards. Preceded by a marching band playing \"Hail to the Chief\", Manson entered the stage flanked by mock United States Secret Service agents and, from a microphone-covered podium, delivered a speech to the audience:\n\nManson then threw off his costume, revealing \"a leather corset, leather G-string and fishnet stockings\", and the band delivered a performance of \"The Beautiful People\" that \"Rolling Stone\" called \"riveting\", in spite of the magazine's extremely negative review of the program as a whole. As the show closed, host Chris Rock teasingly yelled for the audience to \"Run to church right now! Get your asses to church, or you're going to Hell!\".\n\nMarilyn Manson and Twiggy Ramirez joined The Smashing Pumpkins at Mountain View, California's Shoreline Amphitheatre for an acoustic performance of \"The Beautiful People\" during the venue's annual Bridge School Benefit on October 18, 1997. Nine Inch Nails also performed \"The Beautiful People\", with frontman Trent Reznor on bass guitar and Marilyn Manson on lead vocals, on May 9, 2000 at Madison Square Garden. Manson had been a surprise guest at the concert, appearing unannounced on stage during Nine Inch Nails' \"Starfuckers, Inc.\"; this performance was filmed and released as a bonus feature on \"And All That Could Have Been\" in 2002. At the 2012 Echo Awards, Rammstein performed the song, with Marilyn Manson standing in for lead singer Till Lindemann. On October 31, 2014 in a special setup on Halloween night, Manson performed the song with Johnny Depp on guitar and Ninja (from Die Antwoord) as a background vocalist, in the club Roxy in West Hollywood.\n\nIn live performances, Manson frequently incorporates the lyric \"How does it feel to be one of the beautiful people?\" from The Beatles' \"Baby, You're a Rich Man\" into the song, either shouted over its instrumental break or as a lead-in to the introductory drums.\n\nIn addition to the version on the \"Antichrist Superstar\" album and the version on the single (which differ only in the length of the introductory noise) a radio edit also exists, which removes the profanity. The phrase \"hate every motherfucker\" has been replaced by the alternate lyric \"hate every other hater\", and the word \"shit\" has been excised. This radio edit is the version used in the music video for \"The Beautiful People\".\n\nThree official remixes of \"The Beautiful People\" have been released. The first, \"The Horrible People\", was created by Danny Saber and appears on the 1997 \"Remix & Repent\" EP; the remix features a fast-tempo drum n bass backing track, and accents the original song's swing jazz-inflected rhythm with brass and piano samples. J. G. Thirlwell's \"The Not-So-Beautiful People\" is a straight industrial reworking of the track, with rhythmic vocal samples and churning, filtered synthesizers. It was used as the opening theme for \"WWF RAW is WAR\" for only a few weeks in March 1997. Later an edited version of the song was used as the opening theme for \"WWE SmackDown!\" from 2001 to 2003, and a remix of it was included on \"WWF Forceable Entry\" and a 10-inch picture disc single of the song.\n\nMarilyn Manson's 2004 greatest hits compilation, \"\", contains a slightly reworked version of the track. The longer introduction from the single version has been restored, and certain musical elements (most notably, an organ-like sound not noticeable in the previously released versions) have been made more pronounced.\n\nIn 1997, MTV News reported that Manson had expressed interest in collaborating with Snoop Dogg to produce a rap version of \"The Beautiful People\". It is unknown if the collaboration ever actually occurred, although in his September 4, 1997 keynote address at the CMJ Music Marathon, the singer referred to the project as \"something I would still love to do\" and blamed the hectic touring schedules of both his own band and the rapper for the delay.\n\nThe song has been made available as downloadable content for \"Guitar Hero 5\" and is included on the \"Rock Band 3\" soundtrack.\n\n Floria Sigismondi directed what has been described as \"the creepiest of creepy videos\" for \"The Beautiful People\". The clip, filmed in the then abandoned Gooderham and Worts distillery in Toronto, Canada, depicts the band performing the song in a classroom-like area decorated with medical prostheses and laboratory equipment. Intercut with these performance clips are scenes of lead singer Marilyn Manson in a long gown-like costume and aviator goggles, wearing stilts and prosthetic makeup which make him appear bald and grotesquely tall; after being placed in this costume by similarly attired attendants, he appears to a cheering crowd through a window in a scene reminiscent of a fascist rally, and later stands in the center of a circle while people march around him giving the Hitler salute. Other fast cut scenes include extreme close-ups of crawling earthworms, mannequin heads and hands, and the boots of people marching; and shots of the individual band members bizarrely costumed, including Manson in back and neck braces, a leather aviator cap and an orthodontic cheek retractor, exposing metallic teeth.\n\nThe video premiered on MTV on September 22, 1996 and was nominated for two 1997 MTV Video Music Awards: Best Rock Video and Best Special Effects.\nThe single was generally praised on its release. AllMusic's Stephen Thomas Erlewine highly praised the song, stating that \"With its mock menace and pummeling metal triplets, it was the first Manson song with an oversized hook -- the kind of song that even the group's detractors couldn't get out of their heads\". In its 1996 review of \"Antichrist Superstar\", \"Rolling Stone\" magazine described \"The Beautiful People\" as \"suspense-filled\", with \"a zombielike, repetitive quality [and] ghostly electronic sounds. . .\", adding that in his vocal delivery, \"Manson hisses his lines, punctuating certain words with a shrill, insane pitch, others with a retching scream\".\n\nIn the United States, the single managed to reach number 29 on the \"Billboard\" Mainstream Rock Tracks chart and number 26 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart. In the UK, it reached number 18 on the UK Singles Chart, peaking on June 7, 1997. In Sweden, it was certified gold. Although the single only peaked at number 42 on the Australian ARIA singles chart, it spent 56 weeks in the top 100 and became the 89th highest-selling single of 1997 in Australia.\n\nAccording to Acclaimedmusic.net \"The Beautiful People\" is the 21st best song of 1996, the 349th greatest song released during the 1990s and the 2,451st greatest of all-time. In 2002, \"Kerrang!\" ranked \"The Beautiful People\" 5th in their \"100 Greatest Singles of All Time\". In 2003, \"Q\" ranked \"The Beautiful People\" 192nd in their \"The 1001 Best Songs Ever\". \"Q\" also included \"The Beautiful People\" under the Metal Tracks category of their \"Ultimate Music Collection\" in 2005. The music video for the single would be nominated in three categories at the 1997 MTV Video Music Awards namely, \"Best Rock Video\", \"Best Art Direction\" and \"Best Special Effects\".\n\nIn 2011, Both the original version and the Scala and Kolacny cover would be used as the theme music for the \"7\" Scarezone at Universal Orlando's Halloween Horror Nights 21 Event\nThe song has been covered by various artists, including the jazz trumpeter Lester Bowie, on his Brass Fantasy's 1999 \"Odyssey of Funk & Popular Music, Volume 1\"; metalcore band Eighteen Visions, on the 2006 compilation \"Punk Goes 90s\"; the Scala & Kolacny Brothers girls' choir on their 2007 album \"One Winged Angel\"; and heavy metal band Soulfly on \"\" and a special edition of their album \"Conquer\".\n\nSamples from \"The Beautiful People\" have been used in two songs of the same title, one by rapper Apathy, one by Christina Aguilera for the \"Burlesque\" soundtrack. Pop punk singer Avril Lavigne sang the song in a medley with her own song \"Bad Girl\" (which features guest vocals from Manson) during The Avril Lavigne Tour in 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMusicians:\n\nProduction:\n\nAs original version, with\n\nAs original version, with\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11242936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11242936", "title": "The Essential Charles Eastman (Ohiyesa)", "text": "The Essential Charles Eastman (Ohiyesa)\n\nThe Essential Charles Eastman (Ohiyesa) (2007, World Wisdom) is a compilation of the writings of Charles Eastman. A 19th-century Native American author and activist, Eastman lived both in the world of the Santee Dakota and the world of contemporary non-Indian America. His writings are of historical significance, providing a glimpse of Native American life during a turbulent time, as well as an explanation of the spiritual traditions of the Sioux people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "906753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=906753", "title": "Tikkun (magazine)", "text": "Tikkun (magazine)\n\nTikkun is a quarterly interfaith Jewish left-progressive magazine and website, published in the United States, that analyzes American and Israeli culture, politics, religion, and history in the English language. The magazine has consistently published the work of Israeli and Palestinian left-wing intellectuals, but also included book and music reviews, personal essays, and poetry. In 2006 and 2011, the magazine was awarded the \"Independent Press Award for Best Spiritual Coverage\" by \"Utne Reader\" for its analysis of the inability of many progressives to understand people's yearning for faith, and the American fundamentalists' political influence on the international conflict among religious zealots. The magazine was founded in 1986 by Michael Lerner and his then-wife Nan Fink Gefen. Since 2012, its publisher is Duke University Press. Beyt Tikkun Synagogue, led by Rabbi Michael Lerner, is loosely affiliated with Tikkun magazine. It describes itself as a \"hallachic community bound by Jewish law\".\n\nThe magazine's title comes from mystical Hebrew concept \"tikkun olam\" (; \"healing or restoring the world\"), emphasizing both humanity's and God's co-responsibility \"to heal, repair and transform the world\".\n\nInitially, Nan Fink Gefen, at the time married to Lerner, devoted financial resources and served as a hands-on publisher until she left as their marriage ended in 1991. In 1997 a fellow 1960s-activist Danny Goldberg, a major music industry figure heavily involved in the ACLU, became co-publisher with his father, Victor. During these years, prominent journalists such as Jack Newfield interviewed national and international leaders such as Mario Cuomo and Haiti's embattled President Aristide to bring more credibility to the growing influence of the magazine. From 2002 through 2011, Lerner's sister, Trish Vradenburg, and her husband served as co-publishers.\n\nFounded in 1986, the magazine's editorial policy was shaped by Nan Fink Gefen, Michael Lerner, and Peter Gabel. According to the founding editorial statement, political concerns of the 1960s civil rights, anti-war, and feminist movements and psychological studies of workers in the 1970s and 1980s were their most direct influences. Among authors who contributed to the magazine's interfaith character were the historian Christopher Lasch, philosopher Cornel West, and Harvey Cox of Harvard Divinity School.\n\nObliquely confronting more conservative American Jewish community's Commentary Magazine, which caused some members of the Editorial Board, including Elie Wiesel, to resign, the magazine introduced itself with prominent ads placed in leading intellectual papers and journals declaring a new voice for the Jewish Left. Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel's legacy of \"prophetic\" Jewish activism has been honored and analyzed from the first issue onward. Some writers who have contributed recently to the magazine include Michael Bader, Noam Chomsky, Shaul Magid (a contributing editor), Benny Morris, Or N. Rose (also a contributing editor), Edward Said, Richard Silverstein, Jim Wallis, and Stephen Zunes. In every issue, it is stated that its articles \"do not necessarily reflect \"Tikkun's\" position on any issue\", and its editor, Rabbi Michael Lerner, has written that he \"often consciously seeks to print articles with which he disagrees\".\n\nIn 2001 the magazine's interfaith activist community's website, the \"Network of Spiritual Progressives\", initially named differently, was established by founders that include \"Sister\" Joan Chittister, a Benedictine nun, and Cornel West, a Princeton University professor of religion, in order to engage readers in broader activism and broaden the magazine's appeal to non-Jewish readers. Challenging the anti-religious and anti-spiritual biases within liberal culture and \"replacing world domination with generosity\" are among the ideas that are supported by the community.\n\nIn 2005 Manfred Gerstenfeld cited an article published by \"Tikkun\" — Joel Kovel’s \"On Left Anti-Semitism and the Special Status of Israel\" (May/June 2003) — as one of two examples of \"essays of Jewish authors using anti-Semitic arguments\". In his article, Kovel described Israel as a racist state that \"automatically generates crimes against humanity and lacks the internal means of correcting them\", adding that such a state \"cannot have that legitimacy which gives it the right to exist\".\n\nIn a 2006 column, Alan Dershowitz wrote that \"\"Tikkun\" is quickly becoming the most virulently anti-Israel screed ever published under Jewish auspices\" and that \"support for \"Tikkun\" is support for the enemies of Israel\". Dershowitz and his books have been the targets of criticism in the pages of \"Tikkun\" (for example: May/June 1997, September/October 1997, November/December 1997, January/February 1999).\n\nIn 1997 former \"Tikkun\" editors accused Lerner of publishing pseudonymous letters to the editor that he himself had written. While many of the letters were laudatory (\"Your editorial stand on Iraq said publicly what many of us in the Israeli peace camp are feeling privately but dare not say.\"), a few were critical (\"Have you gone off your rocker?\"). Lerner admitted that he had written the letters but said his only mistake was not informing readers that the authors' names were pseudonyms.\n\n"}
{"id": "1696901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1696901", "title": "True Will", "text": "True Will\n\nTrue Will is a term found within the mystical system of Thelema, a magical society founded in 1904 with Aleister Crowley's writing of \"The Book of the Law\". It is defined either as a person's grand destiny in life or as a moment-to-moment path of action that operates in perfect harmony with Nature. True Will does not spring from conscious intent, but from the interplay between the deepest Self and the entire Universe. Thelemites in touch with their True Will are said to have eliminated or bypassed their false desires, conflicts, and habits, and accessed their connection with the divine. Theoretically, at this point, the Thelemite acts in alignment with Nature, just as a stream flows downhill, with neither resistance nor \"lust of result\". Crowley's ideas on the subject partly originated with the teachings of Eliphas Levi, whose magical books emphasize the magician finding their magical identity – his or her 'true self', which Levi referred to as the \"True Will\".\n\nThelema roughly means \"will\" in Greek. The phrase \"True Will\" does not appear in \"The Book of the Law\", the central sacred text of Thelema. Nevertheless, Aleister Crowley's various commentaries on the Book routinely postulate that each individual has a unique and incommensurable True Will that determines his or her proper course in life. Crowley's invention appears to be an attempt to explain how some actions may be wrong (or \"false\") when \"There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt\". Actions that conform to True Will are thus considered to be correct, while willed actions that deviate from True Will may nevertheless be wrong. In \"The Book of the Law\" Crowley wrote \"Do What Thou Wilt\". \n\n\"DO WHAT THOU WILT\" can often be misunderstood to mean \"do what you want\". When one says \"do what thou wilt\", this means that the origin of will directs the path. To understand and act upon one's True Will is a sort of \"enlightenment\" to Thelemites. The ultimate goal of a Thelemite would be to understand and perform their True Will. True Will directs the individual towards destiny and forces them into the joy of accomplishing what they were meant to accomplish without \"lust of result\" (outside motivations).\n\nIn Crowley's essay \"The Secret Conference\" (written under the pseudonym \"Gerald Aumont\", and prefaced to \"The Heart of the Master\"), he suggests that a technique must be devised by which a child's True Will may be discovered at birth, or as early as possible in life, in order to permit the correct ordering of society. \n\nIn Crowley's ethical treatise \"Duty\", he identifies True Will with the Nature of the individual. This capitalized \"Nature\" may be compared with the \"Perfect Nature\" of earlier Gnostic systems, which was another term for the personal daimon or augoeides, usually referenced by Crowley as the Holy Guardian Angel. \n\n\"The Message of the Master Therion\" (Liber II) is a document that attempts to delineate the doctrine of True Will. By reference to \"Liber Thisharb\", Liber II suggests a theory of metempsychosis, whereby the individual True Will is the resultant of a person's prior incarnations. But here as elsewhere, Crowley stops short of asserting objective validity for memories of past lives. He recommends developing \"the magical memory\" as a means to an end, and connecting the aspirant's abilities and remembered past with some purpose. By definition, the aspirant's True Will must fit the aspirant's nature.\n\nIn \"De Lege Libellum\" (Liber CL), Crowley defines True Will as the will which \"does not rest content with things partial and transitory, but...proceed[s] firmly to the End\", and in the same passage he identifies that \"end\" as the destruction of oneself in love.\n\n"}
{"id": "23369189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23369189", "title": "World UFO Day", "text": "World UFO Day\n\nWorld UFO Day is an awareness day for people to gather together and watch the skies for unidentified flying objects. The day is celebrated by some on June 24, and others on July 2. June 24 is the date that aviator Kenneth Arnold reported what is generally considered to be the first widely reported unidentified flying object sighting in the United States, while July 2 commemorates the supposed UFO crash in the 1947 Roswell UFO Incident.\n\nThe stated goal of the July 2 celebration is to raise awareness of \"the undoubted existence of UFOs\" and to encourage governments to declassify their files on UFO sightings.\n\n\n"}
