{"id": "40781509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40781509", "title": "1955 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference", "text": "1955 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference\n\nThe 1955 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference was the seventh Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in the United Kingdom in January 1955 and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Sir Winston Churchill.\n\nA sense of international crisis loomed over the conference which occurred during which the First Taiwan Strait Crisis as were other international developments such as the sudden resignation of Soviet Premier Georgy Malenkov and the fall of French prime minister Pierre Mendès France, all of which were discussed. Atomic energy for peaceful purposes, disarmament, and trade and economic development in the Sterling area, and regional defence were also discussed, in particular the defence of South East Asia, the formation of SEATO and in particular the ongoing insurgency in Malaya.\n\nPakistan informed the meeting that it was to become a republic and the meeting affirmed that Pakistan would be welcome to remain in the Commonwealth.\n"}
{"id": "4014773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4014773", "title": "Adjudicator", "text": "Adjudicator\n\nAn adjudicator is someone who presides, judges, and arbitrates during a formal dispute or competition. They have numerous purposes, including preliminary legal judgments, to determine applicant eligibility, or to assess contenders' performance in competitions.\n\nAn adjudicator is someone who presides, judges, and arbitrates during a formal dispute or competition.\n\nAn example is a person who makes a preliminary judgment as to an unemployment insurance claim. An adjudicator makes an initial decision to keep a case from going to court. Although the adjudicator's decision does not have legal weight, the adjudicator has rendered a decision. Although a case can be appealed to a judge, the adjudicator's decision is frequently accepted as the same as what a judge would make, keeping many time-consuming cases out of the court system.\n\nThe term is used to refer to a panel of judges in the process of considering security clearances for the United States government. The panel reviews information from a background investigation and a polygraph and decides whether to grant the clearance. Adjudicators can be a medical review board that makes disability and retirement benefit decisions for Federal employees and military personnel. Adjudicators also exist for immigration benefits.\n\nAn adjudicator (often referred to as a \"judge\"), is a person who gives a critical evaluation of performances in competitions, festivals or talent shows, resulting in the award of marks, medals or prizes.\n\nIn BP debate, an adjudicator weighs arguments and decides rankings in the house. There are different types of adjudicators, each with their respective duties and levels of authority: chair, panelist, and trainee. In the event that the chair is the chief adjudicator of the tournament, they are referred to as \"Speaker\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11144531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11144531", "title": "Apoliticism", "text": "Apoliticism\n\nApoliticism is apathy or antipathy towards all political affiliations. Being apolitical can also refer to situations in which people take an unbiased position in regard to political matters. The \"Collins Dictionary\" defines \"apolitical\" as \"politically neutral; without political attitudes, content, or bias\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56446104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56446104", "title": "Arts Access Aotearoa", "text": "Arts Access Aotearoa\n\nArts Access Aotearoa was established as a charitable trust in 1995 with funding from Creative New Zealand. It was created primarily to meet a key objective of the Arts Council of New Zealand Toi Aotearoa Act 1994: that is, to support \"the availability of projects of merit to communities or sections of the population that would otherwise not have access to them\". Arts Access Aotearoa’s main areas of focus are supporting disabled people to create and participate in art of all kinds; encouraging performing arts companies, venues, producers and artists to increase their accessibility; and facilitating arts-based rehabilitative projects and programmes in prisons. It receives core funding from Creative New Zealand and has a major contract with the Department of Corrections. It also has support and sponsorship from local government, philanthropic trusts and businesses around New Zealand. \nEvery year, it presents the Arts Access Awards in Parliament. Formerly called the Big ‘A’ Awards, and as of 2018 named the Te Putanga Toi Arts Access Awards, they were introduced in 2007 to recognise the contribution of individuals and organisations in providing access to the arts. There are currently seven awards, including a Community Partnership award, a Museum award, two Arts in Corrections awards the Arts Access Artistic Achievement Award for artists with a disability or lived experience of mental ill-health, and an Arts Access Accolade, presented to someone who has made a significant contribution to accessibility.\nThe Arts For All initiative began in late 2010 with the release of \"Arts For All: Ngā toi mō te katoa\", a practical guide about ways that arts organisations, museums and galleries can improve and encourage access. The Arts for All Network was established as an ongoing programme in 2011. Networks have been established in Wellington, Auckland, Canterbury, Otago and Taranaki and bring together representatives from the disability sector, arts and cultural organisations, and venues to share resources and ideas about building new audiences by improving access for disabled people. Since 2011, the programme has seen significant improvements in access: for example, audio described and sign interpreted performances are now a regular feature of many performing arts companies.\n\nA recognised part of the social services in New Zealand, creative spaces provide a space, a sense of community, resources and support for people to produce art or participate in artistic activities such as theatre, dance, visual arts, creative writing and music. Many are exclusively used by people with disabilities or lived experience of mental ill health, while others are open to a broader cross-section of the community such as youth, unemployed people and people in the criminal justice system. It is estimated that there are around 80 or more creative spaces throughout New Zealand. These include Vincents Art Workshop in Wellington, the first such space established in 1985, as well as Artsenta, which opened in Dunedin in 1986.\nArts Access Aotearoa has a long-standing relationship with the Department of Corrections to facilitate and advise on arts projects and programmes in prisons throughout New Zealand. This has resulted in some exciting initiatives such as an exhibition of prison art in Parliament and a week-long theatre workshop and performance in Arohata Prison led by German theatre director Uta Plate. Other successful projects include two quilting groups run by volunteer quilters, and ballet workshops led by the Royal New Zealand Ballet.\n\n"}
{"id": "37303855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37303855", "title": "Blue laws in the United States", "text": "Blue laws in the United States\n\nBlue laws, also known as Sunday laws, are laws designed to restrict or ban some or all Sunday activities for religious reasons, particularly to promote the observance of a day of worship or rest. Blue laws may also restrict shopping or ban sale of certain items on specific days, most often on Sundays in the western world. Blue laws are enforced in parts of the United States and Canada as well as some European countries, particularly in Austria, Germany, Switzerland, and Norway, keeping most stores closed on Sundays.\n\nIn the United States, the U.S. Supreme Court has held blue laws as constitutional numerous times, citing secular bases such as securing a day of rest for mail carriers, as well as protecting workers and families, in turn contributing to societal stability and guaranteeing the free exercise of religion. The origin of the blue laws also partially stems from religion, particularly the prohibition of Sabbath desecration in Christian Churches following the first-day Sabbatarian tradition. Both labour unions and trade associations have historically supported the legislation of blue laws. Most blue laws have been repealed in the United States, although Indiana banned the sale of alcoholic beverages on Sundays until repealed on February 28, 2018, and many states ban selling cars on Sundays.\n\nArizona previously limited alcohol sales hours on Sundays (2 a.m. to 10 a.m.; the other six days of the week alcohol could be purchased starting at 6 a.m.). This law was repealed in 2010.\n\nArkansas has 75 counties, 39 of which are \"dry\", meaning the sale of any alcoholic beverage is prohibited entirely. (Some exceptions are made for private facilities). Private facilities must have licenses, which can be rigorous. Sale of alcoholic beverages on Christmas Day is entirely prohibited, even in private facilities. Alcohol and liquor sales are entirely prohibited on Sunday and Christmas Day. (Some exceptions for private facilities are made for Sundays).\n\nWashington, D.C. allows private retailers (Class A) to sell distilled spirits, but the District Council requires Class A retailers to be closed on Sundays (Class B retailers, such as grocery stores, may sell beer and wine on Sundays). However, in December 2012, the Council voted to repeal the Sunday restriction. The repeal took effect May 1, 2013.\n\nSeveral counties prohibit the sale of alcohol and sex toys on Sunday and during certain hours.\n\nSunday retail alcohol sales in stores were prohibited by the Georgia General Assembly up until 2011. On April 28, 2011, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal signed legislation allowing local communities to vote on whether to allow alcohol sales on Sundays. Sales are still restricted on Sundays before 12:30 p.m. On November 8, 2011, voters in more than 100 Georgia cities and counties voted on a bill that would allow stores to sell alcohol on Sundays. It passed in Valdosta, Atlanta, Savannah and many other cities. Before this, cities and counties of sufficiently large populations such as most of Metro Atlanta already had Sunday alcohol sales at bars and restaurants, with local ordinances to abide by, such as having a certain amount of food sales in order to be opened and serve alcohol. Exceptions were also made by the drink at festivals and large events.\n\nHorse racing is prohibited on Sundays unless authorized by the local municipality.\n\nCar dealerships are closed on Sundays.\n\nCarry-out alcohol sales were strictly prohibited on Sundays until 2011, when the state amended its laws to permit qualified breweries to sell local brews for carryout (generally growlers). In 2018, the law was changed to allow carry-out purchases on Sundays. Restaurants and taverns can generally still serve alcoholic beverages. Alcohol sales are no longer prohibited on New Years Day. In 2010, a change in legislation allowed Indiana residents to purchase alcohol on Election Day. Christmas sales are still prohibited.\nIn the state of Indiana, as of March 1, 2018, Sunday alcohol sales are allowed between noon and 8pm.\n\nIowa Code 322.3 states that a licensed car dealership cannot either directly or through an agent, salesperson, or employee, engage in Iowa, or represent or advertise that the person is engaged or intends to engage in Iowa, in the business of buying or selling at retail new or used motor vehicles, other than mobile homes more than eight feet in width or more than thirty-two feet in length on Sunday.\n\nMaine was the last New England state to repeal laws that prohibited department stores from opening on Sundays. The laws against the department stores opening on Sundays were ended by referendum in 1990. Recent efforts to overturn the laws restricting automobile dealerships from opening on Sunday have died in committee in the Maine legislature. Rep. Don Pilon of Saco has led the effort to get rid of the laws that prohibit automobile dealerships from opening for business on Sundays. Hunting is prohibited on Sundays.\n\nMaine is also one of three states where it is illegal for almost all businesses to open on Thanksgiving, most notably the big department stores.\n\nAlcohol sales remain restricted but allowed between the hours of 1 a.m. and 7 a.m. Monday through Saturday and 1 a.m. and 9 a.m. on Sunday.\n\nIn Maryland, \"a new or used car dealer may not sell, barter, deliver, give away, show, or offer for sale a motor vehicle or certificate of title for a motor vehicle on Sunday\", except in Howard County, Montgomery County, and Prince George's County. Motorcycles are excepted in Anne Arundel County. In the City of Baltimore, a used car dealer may choose to operate on Sunday and not Saturday if it notifies the Motor Vehicle Administration in advance of its intention. Following a public hearing, the Commissioners of Charles County are allowed to authorize sales of motor vehicles on Sunday.\n\nIn Maryland, professional sports teams are prohibited from playing games before 1 p.m. on a Sunday unless a local law or a local ordinance allows it.\n\nMost off-premises alcohol sales were not permitted on Sundays until 2004. Exceptions were made in 1990 for municipalities that were within 10 miles of the New Hampshire or Vermont border. Since 1992, alcohol sales have been allowed statewide from the Sunday prior to Thanksgiving until New Year's Day. In both exceptions sales were not allowed before noon. Since the law changed in 2004, off-premises sales are now allowed anywhere in the state, with local approval, after noon. Retail alcohol sales remain barred on Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and Memorial Day.\n\nMassachusetts also has a \"Day of Rest\" statute that provides that all employees are entitled to one day off from work in seven calendar days.\n\nRetail employees working on Sundays must be paid time-and-a-half.\n\nThe sale of alcohol is banned from 2 a.m. to 7 a.m. every day. The only exception to this rule is New Year's Day, in which case alcohol sales are permitted until 4 a.m. Alcohol sales were likewise banned on Sunday until 12 p.m., and on Christmas from 12 a.m. until 12 p.m., until a repeal in late 2010. Specific localities may petition for exceptions for either on-site or off-site consumption.\n\nAll \"blue laws\" which had restricted Sunday hunting, in specific Lower Peninsula counties, were repealed in 2003.\n\nPrior to the law being repealed in 2017, the sale of alcohol in liquor stores was prohibited statewide on Sundays. As recently as the 2015 legislative session, proposals to allow Sunday liquor sales were defeated regularly. However, in 2015, Sunday growler purchases were made legal. On March 2, 2017, the state legislature passed a law allowing for Sunday Liquor Sales to begin on July 2, 2017. Governor Dayton signed the legislation as soon as it was passed. Liquor stores are not required to be open on Sundays, but those who choose to do so are restricted to the hours of 11 AM and 6 PM.\n\nThe sale of alcohol is prohibited in most of Mississippi on Sundays. Also, liquor sales are prohibited in nearly half of the state's counties.\n\nThe sale of alcohol is prohibited from 1:30 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Saturday through Monday. Alcohol sales on Sunday are allowed from 9:00 a.m. to midnight subject to an additional liquor license fee.\n\nIn 1677, the General Assembly of East New Jersey banned the \"singing of vain songs or tunes\" on Sabbath.\n\nOne of the last remaining Sunday closing laws in the United States that covers selling electronics, clothing and furniture is found in Bergen County, New Jersey. Bergen County, part of the New York metropolitan area, has one of the largest concentrations of enclosed retail shopping malls of any county in the nation; four major malls lie within the county. Paramus in Bergen County, where three of the four major malls are located, has even more restrictive blue laws than the county itself, banning all type of work on Sundays except in grocery stores, gas stations, pharmacies, hotels, restaurants, and other entertainment venues. As recently as 2010, Governor Chris Christie had proposed the repeal of these Blue Laws in his State Budget, but many Bergen County officials vowed to maintain them. Two days later, Christie predicted that his planned repeal would not succeed. Car dealerships are not allowed to be open or do business on Sundays anywhere in the state. In November 2012, Christie issued an executive order to temporarily suspend the blue law due to the effects of Hurricane Sandy. The blue law was suspended on November 11 but was back in effect on November 18.\n\nOn-premise sale is allowed from 7 am. to 2 am. and until midnight for off-premise, except on Sundays; no alcohol is allowed to be sold on or off-premise. Stores can apply for permits to sell on and off-premise on Sunday if their municipality allows it. No sales on Christmas Day.\n\nAlcohol sales for consumption off-premises are not permitted between 3 a.m. and 8 a.m. on Sundays, while on-premises sales are not permitted between 4 a.m. and 8 a.m. on any day. Prior to 2006, off-premises alcohol sales were forbidden until noon on Sundays, and liquor/wine stores were required to be closed the entire day. Because grocery stores are not permitted to carry wine or liquor, the older law essentially meant that only beer and alcoholic malt beverages could be purchased at all on Sundays.\n\nRelatively few parts of New York actually permit alcohol sales at all times permissible under state law; most counties have more restrictive blue laws of their own.\n\nThe NYS Alcoholic Beverage Control Law prohibits the issuance of a full liquor license for establishments on the same street or avenue and within two hundred feet of a building occupied exclusively as a school, church, synagogue or other place of worship. Establishments within of a church or school may obtain a beer and wine license.\n\nNorth Carolina does not allow alcohol sales between 2 a.m. and 7 a.m. Monday through Saturday and between 2 a.m. and either 10:00 a.m. or 12:00 p.m. on Sundays, varying by county. Gun hunting is prohibited on Sundays between 9:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m.\n\nNorth Dakota may have the strictest remaining blue law of the United States. Many goods and items are restricted from being sold between midnight and noon on Sunday, rendering virtually all retailers closed in those hours, including malls and some large retail chains (though it is open Sundays before noon only between Thanksgiving & Christmas Eve); however, some businesses that open 24 hours, like grocery stores, are allowed to be open on Sunday. However, the big retail chain Walmart is closed. Prior to 1967, the law was stricter in that all businesses were closed from 12 a.m. Sunday to 12 a.m. Monday. In 1967, changes more clearly defined which businesses were exempt such as pharmacies, hospitals and restaurants. The changes were made after a 1966 blizzard, after which citizens were not able to purchase some needed goods and services due to the blue law. The law changed once more in 1991 to allow businesses to open at noon on Sunday.\n\nIt is illegal to sell packaged liquor (off-premises sales) on Sundays. Sales also are prohibited on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.\n\nCar dealerships are also closed on Sundays.\n\nOrganized sports competition on Sundays was illegal in Pennsylvania until 1931; when challenged by the Philadelphia A's, the laws were changed permitting only baseball to be played on Sundays. In 1933, Bert Bell, understanding that prerequisites to an NFL franchise being granted to him were changes in the blue laws, played the primary role of convincing then Governor Gifford Pinchot to issue a bill before the Pennsylvanian legislature to deprecate the Blue Laws. The legislature passed the bill in April 1933, paving the way for Philadelphia Eagles to play on Sundays. The law also directed local communities to hold referenda to determine the status and extent of Blue Laws in their respective jurisdictions. On November 7, 1933, the referendum on the Blue Laws passed in Philadelphia and it became law.\n\nRegarding alcohol, wines and spirits are to be sold only in the state owned Fine Wine and Good Spirits stores, where all prices must remain the same throughout the state (county sales tax may cause the price to differ slightly). As of April 2015, 157 of the 603 Fine Wine and Good Spirits stores are open from noon to 5:00 p.m. on Sundays. Beer may only be purchased from a restaurant, bar, licensed beer store, or distributor. Six and twelve packs, along with individual bottles such as 40-ounce or 24-ounce beers, may only be purchased at bars, restaurants, and licensed retailers. For larger quantities one must go to a beverage distributor which sells beer only by the case or keg, or 12-packs, which were added to beer distributors' inventories by state law in 2015. Beverage distributors (which also sell soft drinks) may sell beer and malt liquor, but not wine or hard liquor.\n\nIn 2016, a bill was passed to relax the liquor laws. Updates include allowing grocery stores, convenience stores, hotels, and restaurants to sell take out wine, allowing mail order wine shipments, and allowing 24/7 alcohol sales at casinos. Special licenses are required for businesses to take advantage of these new opportunities. Also Sunday restrictions on the hours at the state owned \"Fine wines and Good Spirits\" stores were eliminated.\n\nHunting is prohibited on Sundays, with the exception of foxes, crows and coyotes.\n\nCar dealerships are also closed on Sunday.\n\nIn addition to alcohol laws varying widely across Tennessee, bartenders are prohibited from allowing alcohol to be consumed on their premises between 3 AM and 10 AM on Sunday, unless the local government has decided not to allow extended hours for alcohol sales, in which case sale before noon is prohibited.\n\nCar dealerships (both new and used) must remain closed on either Saturday or Sunday; the dealer has the option to determine on which day to close.\n\nIn Texas, alcoholic beverage sales are distinguished (and thus blue laws vary) in two different ways:\n\nBeer and wine can be sold for \"off-premises consumption\" by any retailer that can supply and has the proper licenses. A beer and wine seller may sell other non-alcohol items, and is not required to be closed for business during periods when beer and wine cannot be sold.\n\nBeer can be sold between 7 a.m. and midnight Monday–Saturday and on Sunday from midnight to 1 a.m. and again between noon and midnight. On-premises consumption permit holders may sell beer between 10 a.m. and noon but only with a food order. In certain large cities as defined within the Code, beer sales are automatically extended to 2 a.m. on any day of the week; in smaller cities and unincorporated portions of counties such sales can be allowed if authorized by the local governing body.\n\nWine sales are subject to the same rules as beer sales, except sales are allowed until 2 a.m. on Sunday in all cases.\n\nLiquor must be sold at specialized stores only (referred to as \"package stores\" in the statute) and the store must be physically separate from any other business (such as an adjoining convenience store). A package store can sell other items, but the store must be closed at any time when it cannot sell liquor.\n\nLiquor cannot be sold at retail stores during any of the following times:\n\nWholesalers can deliver liquor to retailers at any time except on Sunday or Christmas; however, local distributors can only deliver liquor to retailers between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m. on any day except Sunday, Christmas or any day where the retailer is prohibited from selling liquor.\n\nThere are forms of hunting on Sunday that are illegal, such as deer, turkey, dove and duck, and other forms that are legal. The forms of Sunday hunting that are legal are hunting on licensed hunting preserves, bear hunting, raccoon hunting and fox hunting.\n\nA recent grass roots effort is attempting to bring an end to the last of the blue laws in Virginia. The grass roots effort has centered around a Facebook group called \"Legalize Virginia Sunday Hunting for All.\" During the most recent effort the Sunday hunting bill overwhelmingly passed the Senate only to be voted down by a 4 to 3 vote in Delegate R. Lee Ware's (Committee Chairman Republican Powhatan, Virginia) Natural Resources Subcommittee. During the debate on February 1, 2012, in the Powhatan Today opinion section, Delegate Ware expressed his concern over the dangers surrounding hunting activities in these quotes. \"Bullets travel without regard to property lines—and so do shotgun pellets or slugs or even arrows from powerful-enough bows. And always, for an unsuspecting equestrian, there is the peril of encountering a hunter who misconstrues a horse—or a person—for a deer or any other game.\" \"Equestrians, hikers, bikers, picnickers, bird-watchers, fishermen, canoeists, kayakers: all of these wish, too, to enjoy Virginia’s great outdoors, often on Sunday—and they wish to do so without the threat inevitably posed by the presence of rifle- or shotgun-toting hunters.\"\nThe sale of alcohol for off-premises consumption is prohibited between the hours of 12 a.m. and 6 a.m. daily. State-run Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) stores have limited hours of operation on Sunday.\n\nHistorically, off-premises Sunday sales of spirits were banned, and all liquor stores were closed. On November 8, 1966, Washington state voters adopted Initiative 229, repealing the so-called \"Blue Law,\" which had been enacted in 1909. Consumers still had the option of purchasing beer or wine from grocery stores or on-premises spirits from bars and restaurants. In 2005, the state began allowing off-premises spirits sales in select stores on Sundays from noon to 5 p.m.\n\nOn the election of November 8, 2011, voters passed Initiative 1183, which brought several changes to the liquor distribution and retailing system. The most significant of these changes were the end to the state monopoly on liquor sales and distribution. On June 1, 2012, Washington completed its transition to private liquor sales. Under 1183, spirits may only be sold in premises of at least 10,000 sq ft, generally including grocery stores, warehouse clubs, department stores, and some larger specialty shops.\n\nThe sale of alcohol for both on and off-premises consumption is prohibited between the hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. daily.\n\nNew rule‐making by the Washington State Liquor Control Board (WSLCB) based on alcohol sales hour restrictions is being proposed as the model for state licensed Marijuana sales per initiative I-502 as well.\n\nHunting on Sunday is prohibited in all but 14 of 55 counties.\n\nAlcohol sales are prohibited on Sunday in West Virginia until 1:00 p.m.\n"}
{"id": "25457484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25457484", "title": "Burlington Northern Railroad Co. v. Woods", "text": "Burlington Northern Railroad Co. v. Woods\n\nBurlington Northern Railroad Co. v. Woods, 480 U.S. 1 (1987), was a United States Supreme Court case that applied the precedent of \"Hanna v. Plumer\" to a conflict between state and federal procedural rules for a federal court sitting in diversity.\n\nThe defendant in the original case stayed a damage judgment and went on to lose on appeal. According to an Alabama statute, the defendant would be required to pay a ten percent penalty. Under Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure Rule 38, the penalty was discretionary. Holding the federal rule to be on point and constitutional, the court applied federal rule and gave no penalty.\n"}
{"id": "21193292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21193292", "title": "Catherine Howard", "text": "Catherine Howard\n\nCatherine Howard ( – 13 February 1542) was Queen of England from 1540 until 1541, as the fifth wife of Henry VIII. She (then aged 16 or 17) married him (then 49) on 28 July 1540, at Oatlands Palace, in Surrey, almost immediately after the annulment of his marriage to Anne of Cleves was arranged.\n\nCatherine was stripped of her title as queen within 16 months, in November 1541. She was beheaded three months later, on the grounds of treason for committing adultery while married to Henry, similarly to Anne Boleyn.\n\nCatherine was one of the daughters of Lord Edmund Howard ( – 1539) and Joyce Culpeper ( – ). Her father's sister, Elizabeth Howard, was the mother of Anne Boleyn. Therefore, Catherine Howard was the first cousin of Anne Boleyn, and the first cousin once removed of Lady Elizabeth (later Queen Elizabeth I), Anne's daughter by Henry VIII. As a granddaughter of Thomas Howard, 2nd Duke of Norfolk (1443–1524), Catherine had an aristocratic pedigree. Her father was not wealthy, being a younger son among 21 children and disfavoured in the custom of primogeniture, by which the eldest son inherits all his father's estate.\n\nWhen Catherine's parents married, her mother already had five children from her first husband, Ralph Leigh ( – 1509); she went on to have another six with Catherine's father, Catherine being about her mother's tenth child. With little to sustain the family, her father was often reduced to begging for handouts from his more affluent relatives. After Catherine's mother died in 1528, her father married twice more. In 1531 he was appointed Controller of Calais. He was dismissed from his post in 1539, and died in March 1539. Catherine was the third of Henry VIII's wives to have been a member of the English nobility or gentry; Catherine of Aragon and Anne of Cleves were from continental Europe.\n\nCatherine was probably born in Lambeth in about 1523, but the exact date of her birth is unknown. Soon after the death of her mother (in about 1528), when Catherine was aged about five, she was sent with some of her siblings to live in the care of her father's stepmother, the Dowager Duchess of Norfolk. The Dowager Duchess presided over large households at Chesworth House in Horsham in Sussex, and at Norfolk House in Lambeth where dozens of attendants, along with her many wards—usually the children of aristocratic but poor relatives—resided. While sending young children to be educated and trained in aristocratic households other than their own was common for centuries among European nobles, supervision at both Chesworth House and Lambeth was apparently lax. The Dowager Duchess was often at Court and seems to have had little direct involvement in the upbringing of her wards and young female attendants.\n\nAs a result of the Dowager Duchess's lack of discipline, Catherine became influenced by some older girls who candidly allowed men into the sleeping areas at night for entertainment. The girls were rewarded with food and wine and gifts. Catherine was not as well educated as some of Henry's other wives, although, on its own, her ability to read and write was impressive enough at the time. Her character has often been described as vivacious, giggly and brisk, but never scholarly or devout. She displayed great interest in her dance lessons, but would often be distracted during them and make jokes. She also had a nurturing side for animals, particularly dogs.\n\nIn the Duchess's household at Horsham, in around 1536, Catherine (then aged 13) was repeatedly molested by her music teacher, Henry Mannox (aged 36). He later gave evidence in the inquiry against her. Mannox and Catherine both confessed during her adultery inquisitions that they had engaged in sexual contact, but not actual coitus. When questioned Catherine was quoted as saying, \"At the flattering and fair persuasions of Mannox, being but a young girl, I suffered him at sundry times to handle and touch the secret parts of my body, which neither became me with honesty to permit nor him to require.\"\n\nThe interferences by Mannox came to an end in 1538, when Catherine, now aged 15, moved to the Dowager Duchess's household in Lambeth. There she was pursued by Francis Dereham, a secretary of the Dowager Duchess. They became lovers, addressing each other as \"husband\" and \"wife\". Dereham also entrusted Catherine with various wifely duties, such as keeping his money when he was away on business. Many of Catherine's roommates among the Dowager Duchess's maids of honour and attendants knew of the relationship, which apparently ended in 1539, when the Dowager Duchess found out. Despite this, Catherine and Dereham may have parted with intentions to marry upon his return from Ireland, agreeing to a precontract of marriage. If indeed they exchanged vows before having sexual intercourse, they would have been considered married in the eyes of the Church.\n\nCatherine's uncle, the Duke of Norfolk, found her a place at Court in the household of the King's fourth wife, Anne of Cleves. As a young and attractive lady-in-waiting, Catherine quickly caught Henry's eye. The King had displayed little interest in Anne from the beginning, but on Thomas Cromwell's failure to find a new match for Henry, Norfolk saw an opportunity. The Howards may have sought to recreate the influence gained during Queen Anne's reign. According to Nicholas Sander, the religiously conservative Howard family may have seen Catherine as a figurehead for their fight by expressed determination to restore Roman Catholicism to England. Catholic Bishop Stephen Gardiner entertained the couple at Winchester Palace with \"feastings\".\n\nAs the King's interest in Catherine grew, so did the house of Norfolk's influence. Her youth, prettiness and vivacity were captivating for the middle-aged sovereign, who claimed he had never known \"the like to any woman\". Within months of her arrival at court, Henry bestowed gifts of land and expensive cloth upon Catherine. Henry called her his 'rose without a thorn' and the 'very jewel of womanhood'. The French ambassador, Charles de Marillac, thought her \"delightful\". Holbein's portrait showed a young auburn-haired girl with a characteristically hooked Howard nose; Catherine was said to have a \"gentle, earnest face.\"\n\nKing Henry and Catherine were married by Bishop Bonner of London at Oatlands Palace on 28 July 1540, the same day Cromwell was executed. The marriage was made public on 8 August, and prayers were said in the Chapel Royal at Hampton Court Palace. Henry \"indulged her every whim\" thanks to her \"caprice\".\n\nCatherine was young, joyous and carefree; Mannox had taught her to play the virginals. She was too young to take part in administrative matters of State. Nevertheless, every night Sir Thomas Heneage, Groom of the Stool, came to her chamber to report on the King's well-being. No plans were made for a coronation, yet she still travelled downriver in the royal barge into the City of London to a gun salute and some acclamation. She was settled by jointure at Baynard Castle: little changed at court, other than the arrival of many Howards. Every day she dressed with new clothes in the French fashion bedecked with precious jewels. With ominous foresight the motto adopted read \"Non autre volonte que la sienne\" (No other wish but his), decorated in gold around her sleeves.\n\nThe Queen escaped plague-ridden London in August 1540 when on progress. The royal couple's entourage travelled on honeymoon through Reading and Buckingham. On 29 August the Duke of Grafton arrived for a Council meeting. After the Queen's Chamberlain got drunk and misbehaved, the King was in a bad mood when they moved on to Woking, when his health improved. The King embarked on a lavish spending spree to celebrate his marriage, with extensive refurbishments and developments at the Palace of Whitehall. This was followed by more expensive gifts for Christmas at Hampton Court Palace.\n\nThat winter the King's bad moods deepened and grew more furious. Undoubtedly the pain from his ulcerous legs was agony, but did not make relations any easier at court. He accused councillors of being \"lying time-servers\", and began to regret losing Cromwell. After a dark depressed March, his mood lifted at Easter.\n\nPreparations were in place for any signs of a royal pregnancy, reported by Marillac on 15 April as \"if it be found true, to have her crowned at Whitsuntide.\"\n\nIt was alleged that, in spring 1541, Catherine had already embarked upon a romance with Henry's favourite male courtier, Thomas Culpeper, a young man who \"had succeeded [him] in the Queen's affections\", according to Dereham's later testimony. Culpeper called Catherine \"my little, sweet fool\" in a love letter; she considered marrying him during her time as a maid-of-honour to Anne of Cleves. The couple's meetings were arranged by one of Catherine's older ladies-in-waiting, Jane Boleyn, Viscountess Rochford (Lady Rochford), the widow of Catherine's executed cousin, George Boleyn, Anne Boleyn's brother.\n\nDuring the autumn Northern Progress, a crisis began to loom over Catherine's conduct. People who had witnessed her earlier indiscretions while still a ward at Lambeth contacted her for favours in return for their silence, and many of them were appointed to her royal household. The brother of Mary Lascelles, John Lascelles, tried to convince his sister to find a place within the Queen's royal chamber, however, Mary refused stating she had witnessed the \"light\" ways of Queen Catherine while living together at Lambeth. After hearing this John Lascelles reported such news to Archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas Cranmer, who then interrogated Lascelles' sister and upon doing so became informed of Catherine's previous illicit sexual relations while under the Duchess' care.\n\nCranmer immediately took up the case to be made to topple his rivals—the Roman Catholic Norfolk family. Lady Rochford was interrogated, and from fear of being tortured, agreed to tell all. She told how she had watched for Catherine backstairs as Culpeper had made his escapes from the Queen's room.\nDuring the investigation, a love letter written in the Queen's distinctive handwriting was found in Culpeper's chambers. This is the only letter of hers that still survives (other than her later confession).\n\nOn All Saints' Day, 1 November 1541, the King was to be found in the Chapel Royal, praying as usual for this \"jewel of womanhood\". He received there a warrant of the queen's arrest that described her crimes. On 7 November 1541, Archbishop Cranmer led a delegation of councillors to Winchester Palace, Southwark, to question her. Even the staunch Cranmer found Catherine's frantic, incoherent state pitiable, saying, \"I found her in such lamentation and heaviness as I never saw no creature, so that it would have pitied any man's heart to have looked upon her.\" He ordered the guards to remove any objects that she might use to commit suicide.\n\nEstablishing the existence of a precontract between Catherine and Dereham would have had the effect of terminating Catherine's royal union, but it also would have allowed Henry to annul their marriage and banish her from Court, in poverty and disgrace, without having to execute her. Yet still she steadfastly denied any precontract, maintaining that Dereham had raped her.\n\nCatherine was stripped of her title as queen on 23 November 1541, and imprisoned in the new Syon Abbey, Middlesex, formerly a convent, where she remained throughout the winter of 1541. She was forced by a Privy Councillor to return Anne of Cleves' ring that the King had given her; it was a symbol of her regal and lawful rights. The King would be at Hampton Court, but she would not see him again. Despite these actions taken against her, her marriage to Henry was never formally annulled.\n\nCulpeper and Dereham were arraigned at Guildhall on 1 December 1541 for high treason. They were executed at Tyburn on 10 December 1541, Culpeper being beheaded and Dereham being hanged, drawn and quartered. According to custom, their heads were placed on spikes atop of London Bridge. Many of Catherine's relatives were also detained in the Tower with the exception of her uncle, the Duke of Norfolk, who had sufficiently distanced himself from the scandal by retreating to Kenninghall to write a grovelling letter of apology.\n\nThe Duke of Norfolk's son Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey, a poet, remained a favourite of the King. The Duke, knowing his family had fallen from grace, wrote an apology on 14 December to the King, excusing himself and laying all the blame on his niece and stepmother. All of the Howard prisoners were tried, found guilty of concealing treason, and sentenced to life imprisonment and forfeiture of goods. In time, they were released with their goods restored. The King sank into morbidity and indulged his appetite for food.\n\nCatherine herself remained in limbo until Parliament introduced a bill of attainder on 29 January 1542, which was passed on 7 February 1542. The Royal Assent by Commission Act 1541 made it treason, and punishable by death, for a queen consort to fail to disclose her sexual history to the king within twenty days of their marriage, or to incite someone to commit adultery with her. This solved the matter of Catherine's supposed precontract and made her unequivocally guilty.\n\nWhen the Lords of the Council came for her, she panicked and screamed aloud, as they manhandled her into the waiting barge that would escort her to the Tower on Friday 10 February 1542, her flotilla passing under London Bridge where the heads of Culpeper and Dereham were impaled (and remained until 1546). Entering through the Traitors' Gate she was led to her prison cell. The next day, the bill of attainder received Royal Assent, and Catherine's execution was scheduled for 7:00 am on Monday, 13 February 1542. Arrangements for the execution were supervised by Sir John Gage in his role as Constable of the Tower.\n\nThe night before her execution, Catherine is believed to have spent many hours practising how to lay her head upon the block, which had been brought to her at her request. She died with relative composure, but looked pale and terrified; she required assistance to climb the scaffold. She made a speech describing her punishment as \"worthy and just\" and asked for mercy for her family and prayers for her soul. According to popular folklore, her final words were, \"I die a Queen, but I would rather have died the wife of Culpeper\". However, no eyewitness accounts support this, instead reporting that she stuck to traditional final words, asking for forgiveness for her sins and acknowledging that she deserved to die 'a thousand deaths' for betraying the king, who had always treated her so graciously. Catherine was beheaded with a single stroke of the executioner's axe.\n\nLady Rochford was executed immediately thereafter on Tower Green. Both their bodies were buried in an unmarked grave in the nearby chapel of St. Peter ad Vincula, where the bodies of Catherine's cousins Anne and George Boleyn also lay. Other cousins were also in the crowd, including the Earl of Surrey. King Henry did not attend. Catherine's body was not one of those identified during restorations of the chapel during Queen Victoria's reign. She is commemorated on a plaque on the west wall dedicated to all those who died in the Tower. Upon hearing news of Catherine's execution, Francis I of France wrote a letter to Henry, regretting the \"lewd and naughty [evil] behaviour of the Queen\" and advising him that \"the lightness of women cannot bend the honour of men\".\n\nCatherine has been the subject of contention for modern biographies, \"A Tudor Tragedy\" by Lacey Baldwin Smith (1967), \"Katherine Howard: A Tudor Conspiracy\" by Joanna Denny (2006), \"Katherine Howard: A New History\" by Conor Byrne (2014), and \"Young and Damned and Fair\" by Gareth Russell (2017). Each is more or less sympathetic, though they disagree on various important points involving Catherine's motivations, date of birth, and overall character.\n\nHer life has also been described in the five collective studies of Henry's queens that have appeared since the publication of Alison Weir's \"The Six Wives of Henry VIII\" (1991) — such as David Starkey's \"The Six Wives: The Queens of Henry VIII\" (2003). Several of these writers have been highly critical of Catherine's conduct, if sympathetic to her eventual fate. Baldwin Smith described Catherine's life as one of hedonism, and characterised her as a \"juvenile delinquent\", as did Francis Hackett in his 1929 biography of Henry. Weir had much the same judgement, describing her as an \"empty-headed wanton\". The general trend, however, has been more generous, particularly in the works of Antonia Fraser, Karen Lindsey, David Loades and Joanna Denny.\n\nPainters continued to include Jane Seymour in pictures of King Henry VIII long after she died, mainly because Henry continued to look back on her with favour as the only wife who gave him a son. Most of the artists copied the portrait by Hans Holbein the Younger because it was the only full-sized picture available. After Catherine Howard was executed, even the Howard family removed her picture from their family portrait gallery. Debate continues about the identity of the sitter(s) for these portraits, and there is no portrait conclusively known to be of Henry's fifth queen.\n\nMost historians believe that a round portrait miniature (shown here)—which exists in two versions by Holbein (Royal Collection and Duke of Buccleuch)—is the only surviving image of Catherine painted from life (in the case of the Windsor version). The historian David Starkey dated it (from details of her dress and the technique of the miniature) to the short period when Catherine was queen. In it, she wears the as Jane Seymour in Holbein's panel portrait in Vienna. Records show that these jewels belonged to the Crown, not to any queen personally, and there is no record that they were removed from the treasury and given to anyone else.\n\nThe pearls may tie in with a gift to Catherine from Henry in 1540, and she is the only queen to fit the dating whose appearance is not already known. For female sitters, duplicate versions of miniatures only exist for queens at this period. There are no other plausible likenesses of her to compare to. Both versions have long been documented as of Catherine Howard, since 1736 for the Buccleuch version and 1739 (or at least the 1840s) for the Windsor version.\n\nA Holbein sketch (above) is also traditionally identified as being of Catherine Howard, but this is widely disputed.\n\nThe contemporary Hans Holbein the Younger portrait of a woman in black (Toledo Museum of Art), was identified by Sir Lionel Cust in 1909 as Catherine Two copies of Holbein's original are extant: one at Hever Castle and another owned by the National Portrait Gallery in London. The portrait has long been associated with Henry VIII's young queen; however, the identification of the portrait as Catherine Howard is widely but not universally discounted.\n\nThe text on the portrait, \"ETATIS SVA 21\", indicates that the sitter was 21 years old, an age Catherine Howard never reached. Herbert Norris notes that the sitter is wearing a sleeve which follows a style set by Anne of Cleves, which would date the portrait to after 6 January 1540, when Anne's marriage to Henry VIII took place. The original Holbein is dated to 1535–1540, but the National Portrait Gallery dates their copy to the late 1600s. This would seem to indicate a sitter who was still a connection to be commemorated over a century later (unlike Catherine).\n\nHistorians Antonia Fraser and Derek Wilson believe that the portrait is far more likely to depict Elizabeth Seymour. Antonia Fraser has argued that the sitter is Jane Seymour's sister, Elizabeth, the widow of Sir Anthony Ughtred, on the grounds that the lady bears a resemblance to Jane, especially around the nose and chin, and wears widow's black. Black clothing, however, was expensive, and did not necessarily signify mourning: it was an indication of wealth and status. Derek Wilson observed that \"In August 1537 Cromwell succeeded in marrying his son, Gregory, to Elizabeth Seymour\", the queen's younger sister. He was therefore related by marriage to the king, \"an event worth recording for posterity, by a portrait of his daughter-in-law.\" The painting was in the possession of the Cromwell family for centuries.\n\nAnother possibility is that the portrait shows Henry's Scottish niece, Lady Margaret Douglas, the mother-in-law of Mary, Queen of Scots. In October 1531, Margaret Douglas turned sixteen, and received gifts from the king including a gown of \"tynsen\", possibly gold-coloured cloth. At Christmas of 1535, she gave a miniature portrait of herself to Lord Thomas Howard. Both were imprisoned in the Tower in July 1536, when Margaret Douglas was 20, over their relationship. She left the Tower, and later travelled to Syon Abbey in November 1536 or 1537, just after either her 21st or 22nd birthday. In December 1536 Douglas received a gift from the King. Around this time, she was ill, incurring a medical bill of £14 4s. Thomas Howard was also ill and died in the Tower on the 31st of October 1537. Margaret Douglas died in March 1578, age 63. Her grandson James Stewart became king of both Scotland and England. Other exist, mostly showing her decades after these portraits were painted. \n\nThe portrait shown on this page, attributed to Hans Holbein, dated circa 1535–1540, is exhibited at the Toledo Museum of Art as \"Portrait of a Lady, Probably a Member of the Cromwell Family\" (1926.57). Another version of the portrait, now located at Hever Castle, dating from the 16th century, is exhibited as Queen Catherine Howard. The National Portrait Gallery exhibits a similar painting, \"Unknown Woman, Formerly Known as Catherine Howard\" (NPG 1119), which has been dated to the late 17th century. The National Portrait Gallery remains undecided about the sitter's identity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41205393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41205393", "title": "Civil Justice Reform Act", "text": "Civil Justice Reform Act\n\nThe Civil Justice Reform Act (\"CJRA\", as Title I of the Judicial Improvements Act of 1990, ) is a U.S. federal law enacted in 1990. Federal Judges in the United States have lifetime tenure and, although each district judge is marginally supervised by a chief judge, there was little national oversight of each judge's case management practices. Congress enacted CJRA in response to complaints of significant delays in the resolution of civil litigation in the federal courts; the CJRA was designed to encourage the speedy resolution of civil matters (both cases and motions) by requiring the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts to prepare and publish a semi-annual report showing, by U.S. district judge and magistrate judge, all motions pending more than six months, all bench trials submitted more than six months, all bankruptcy appeals pending more than six months, all Social Security appeal cases pending more than six months, and all civil cases pending more than three years.\n\n"}
{"id": "46951068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46951068", "title": "Combined Court", "text": "Combined Court\n\nThe Combined Court was the legislature of British Guiana until 1928. In its final form, it consisted of a sitting of the Court of Policy together with the elected Financial Representatives.\n\nThe Combined Court was established by the Dutch authorities at a time when the colonies of Berbice, Demerara and Essequibo were under the control of the Netherlands. It originally consisted of a joint sitting of the Court of Policy and the College of Keizers. However, Lieutenant Governor of Demerara Hugh Lyle Carmichael abolished the College of Keizers in 1812, giving its duties to the Financial Representatives. \n\nThe Court of Policy was part-appointed and part-elected by the re-established College of Keizers, whilst the Financial Representatives were elected by the public, although using a severely limited franchise. Its responsibilities included raising and spending public revenue, and from 1855 onwards, setting the salaries of civil servants. \n\nFollowing the 1891 constitutional reforms, the Combined Court consisted had 22 members, six of which were the Financial Representatives now elected by the public in the single member constituencies of Demerara, Essequebo North Western, Essequebo South Eastern, Berbice, Georgetown and New Amsterdam, and the remainder were the 16-member Court of Policy, half of which was elected. The Court of Policy included the Governor, seven government officials (the Attorney General, the Government Secretary, the Immigration Agent General and the Receiver General, together with three other appointees). The eight elected members were elected from seven constituencies by the public; \n\nDemerara East, Demerara West, Essequebo North Western, Essequebo South Eastern, Berbice, City of Georgetown (2 members) and New Amsterdam. The franchise was severely limited. By the 1926 elections only 4.2% of the population were eligible to vote, up from 1.08% in 1921. \n\nElections were held under this system in 1892, 1897, 1901, 1906, 1911, 1916, 1921 and 1926. The Combined Court was abolished in 1928 when a new constitution replaced it with the Legislative Council.\n"}
{"id": "1718533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718533", "title": "Crazy Taxi", "text": "Crazy Taxi\n\nCrazy Taxi is a series of score attack racing video games that was developed by Hitmaker and published by Sega. The first game appeared in arcades in 1999 and was very successful, prompting Sega to port the arcade version to their Dreamcast console in 2000. It is the third best-selling Dreamcast game in the United States, selling over a million copies. The game was later ported to the PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube, and PC with sequels also appearing on the Xbox, Game Boy Advance, and PlayStation Portable systems.\n\nEach game has the player assume the role of a taxi driver who must accumulate money by delivering passengers to their destinations in the fastest time possible, earning tips by performing \"crazy stunts\" before the time runs out. The franchise has been recognized for its innovative gameplay design which is easy to learn but difficult to master, its use of in-game advertising, and its soundtrack music provided by the bands The Offspring and Bad Religion. The core gameplay mechanic has been patented by Sega, leading to at least one lawsuit over similar gameplay in \"\", which has since been settled out of court.\n\n\"Crazy Taxi\" and its sequels are score attack games that all employ the same fundamental rules and mechanics. The player controls one of several taxi drivers in a fictional city, looking for fares and then taking them to their destination in the fastest time possible. The player must perform this while time still remains on an overall gameplay clock. Passengers looking for rides are indicated by an overhead marker that is colored to represent the distance to their intended destination. The color marker ranges from red indicating short trips, to yellow for intermediate distances, and to green indicating long ones. When a passenger is picked up, the player is awarded additional time on the countdown time. Furthermore, a second countdown timer is started, representing how quickly the passenger needs to be at their destination. While a passenger is in the taxi, a large green arrow is shown on the player's HUD that points in the general direction of the passenger's destination to help guide the player through the map.\n\nThe player can use special \"crazy stunt\" moves such as drifts, jumps, and near-misses, and consecutive combos of these, to earn extra money from the passenger during the trip. If the destination is reached in time, the player is paid based on distance driven with a possible time bonus based on how quickly the destination was reached. If the passenger's countdown drops to zero, they will exit the taxi and the player will be required to look for another fare. The game continues in this mode as long as time remains on the clock. Once the clock reaches zero, the game is over, and the player is ranked and rated based on the total earned.\n\nUnlike other arcade games, the player cannot continue from where the previous game ended. The game cannot be played indefinitely; while there are hundreds of potential passengers to pick up and deliver, there are only a limited number of fares in the game. The various passengers scattered throughout the city will randomly appear and disappear throughout the game, but once one is picked up that passenger is unavailable for the rest of that game. The core gameplay in the series has been praised as being \"deceptively complex\"; as stated by the IGN staff for their review of the Dreamcast version of \"Crazy Taxi\":\nStarting with \"Crazy Taxi 2\", the gameplay included the ability to pick up a party of passengers, each having a different destination. The number of passengers in the car multiplies the tip bonuses earned from stunt driving, while the total fare can only be earned once the last passenger is dropped off in time. Additionally, \"Crazy Taxi 2\" introduced a new stunt move called the \"Crazy Hop\" that allowed the player to make the taxi jump to clear some obstacles or reach higher drivable surfaces.\n\nThe console games have also featured a set of mini-games that require the player to meet a certain objective using one or more of the various \"crazy stunts\" within the game. Some of these test the player's handling of a taxi, while others are more exaggerated, such as taxi bowling or pool. Some mini-games require the completion of others before they can be accessed.\n\nPrior to each game session, the player can pick one of several drivers and their associated cars; each car/driver has slightly different performance relating to factors such as speed and turning, that impact the game.\n\nThe original arcade game was developed by Hitmaker as a variation from then-current arcade titles. \"Crazy Taxi\" producer Kenji Kanno noted that the time extension on gameplay was a breakaway of the current \"100 yen for 3 minutes\" that persisted at the time for arcade games, and rewarded players with longer playing times by performing well in the game. In addition to providing a game that could be played in short sessions, Kanno wanted a game to explore the \"daily life and routine\" of a taxi driver. In the development of the Dreamcast version of the original arcade game, the developers included a larger map in addition to the arcade one, as to create a feeling of \"being lost\" and allowing home console players to have fun \"learning the town\". Mini-games were developed for this version as to \"let the player play longer if he improve<nowiki>[d]</nowiki> skill\" by offering challenges that were both fun and educational. Over one hundred different ideas for mini-games were developed by the team but then pared down for the Crazy Box mini-game challenges for the game. The addition of the Crazy Hop in \"Crazy Taxi 2\" came about because the development team noted that \"...in New York – where the basic landscape is quite flat – we had to create 3D space by letting the player drive on the buildings\" and \"We added the Crazy Hop to let the player hop around the roofs of buildings to make short cuts\".\n\nHitmaker had tried to develop an on-line version of \"Crazy Taxi\", to be called \"Crazy Taxi Next\" exclusively for the Xbox, which, besides multiplayer game modes, would have included night and day cycles, each with a different set of passengers and destinations, while reusing and graphically updating the maps from \"Crazy Taxi\" and \"Crazy Taxi 2\". Ultimately, both multiplayer and day/night cycles were dropped and work on \"Crazy Taxi Next\" was transferred to \"Crazy Taxi 3: High Roller\", which included some of the nighttime driving concepts suggested by \"Next\".\n\nKenji Kanno has noted that the gameplay in the \"Crazy Taxi\" series has otherwise not \"evolved\" with each new game \"because basically the whole point of the game is to have a lot of fun in a short period of time, and it's a very concentrated game. So instead of trying to evolve the series necessarily, it's more like taking that concept and putting it in different places – seeing how it works.\" Kanno is considering bringing the title to newer consoles, but would want to be able to include multiplayer features and having a time cycle within the game that would affect passengers' attitudes and the environment of the game.\n\nThrough the series, the cities used within the \"Crazy Taxi\" games have been influenced by real-world cities, including San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York City, and Las Vegas. Certain versions of the \"Crazy Taxi\" game include in-game counterparts of real-world businesses, including Pizza Hut, Kentucky Fried Chicken, FILA, and Tower Records; these were often destination targets for the passengers. Although this is one of the most prominent examples of product placement in video gaming history, it is generally looked upon relatively favorably amongst gamers, perhaps because it gives a sense of realism to the fictional cities in the game. These establishments have been replaced with generic businesses in later games due to licensing difficulties.\n\nThe soundtrack of the \"Crazy Taxi\" series has typically been licensed hard rock and punk rock music. The arcade and initial home console versions include selections from punk rock bands The Offspring and Bad Religion, though these have been removed in both the Game Boy Advance and the PlayStation Portable remakes because of licensing issues. In the case of the Game Boy Advance \"Catch a Ride\", the game uses instrumental music instead of recorded songs.\n\nSega applied for and was awarded U.S. Patent 6,200,138–\"Game display method, moving direction indicating method, game apparatus and drive simulating apparatus\" – in 2001. The mechanics in the \"138 patent\" describe an arcade cabinet similar to Sega's previous arcade game \"Harley-Davidson & L.A. Riders\" (1997), but also describe the arrow navigation system and pedestrian avoidance aspects that were used in \"Crazy Taxi\".\n\nIn 2001, Electronic Arts and Fox Interactive released \"\", which has been labelled a rip-off of the \"Crazy Taxi\" formula by game reviewers. In this game, the player controlled one of \"The Simpsons\" characters as they drive about Springfield, taking passengers to their destinations in the same manner as \"Crazy Taxi\". Sega sued Fox Entertainment, Electronic Arts, and developer Radical Games Ltd. over infringement of the 138 patent. The case, \"Sega of America, Inc. v. Fox Interactive, et al.\", was settled in private for an unknown amount. The 138 patent itself remains valid, and is considered to be one of the most important patents in video game development today.\n\nThe arcade version of \"Crazy Taxi\" was released in 1999, and featured only the San Francisco-inspired map (known as \"Arcade\" in the first console game, and later as \"West Coast\" in sequels). The \"Standard Version\" arcade cabinet included a cockpit seat, steering wheel, a gear shift lever (for forward and reverse gear) and a brake and acceleration pedal; a more compact \"Naomi Cabinet Version\" also existed without the cockpit seat. The arcade game was one of the first to use the Sega NAOMI hardware processor, which is based on the Sega Dreamcast and was unveiled as part of Sega's exhibition at the 1999 Amusement Operators Union exposition in Japan.\n\nThe console/home version of \"Crazy Taxi\" was released for the Dreamcast on January 24, 2000. The Dreamcast and the cabinet arcade version share nearly identical processing hardware, and porting the game to the home console was only made difficult due to the limited internal memory size on the Dreamcast. Sega used \"Crazy Taxi\" to show the power of the Dreamcast's graphical processor, capable of maintaining 60 frame/s throughout play. In addition to the arcade map, this version included the San Francisco-themed city (entitled \"Original\"), as well as additional mini-games (\"Crazy Box\") that can be used to hone the player's taxi handling skills. The new map, much larger than the arcade version, was designed to let the player experience the feeling of \"being lost\" and allow for exploration, something that could not be done on the arcade version, as well letting \"the player enjoy all 3 dimensions.\"\n\nOnce Sega left the hardware market, other companies began to take up some of the franchises, including \"Crazy Taxi\". Acclaim brought the game to the PlayStation 2 on May 21, 2001 and GameCube on November 18, 2001, while Activision and Strangelite ported the game to the PC in 2002; only the PlayStation 2 port was more successful than the Dreamcast version, and the rest didn't do as well. The Dreamcast version of \"Crazy Taxi\" was also playable through emulation via Gametap on PC systems.\n\n\"Crazy Taxi 2\" was released for the Dreamcast on May 28, 2001. The game introduced four cab drivers as well as two new maps inspired based on New York City (\"Around Apple\" and \"Small Apple\"), and added two gameplay features: the mechanics of collecting multiple passengers from a single spot, and the \"Crazy Hop\", allowing the taxi to clear traffic and certain obstacles with short jumps. Additionally, the \"Crazy Box\" mode in the first game was expanded into a \"Crazy Pyramid\" mode.\n\n\"\" was released for the Xbox on July 23, 2002, and later released as a PC title in 2004. The game reuses the original arcade map modified to allow the use of the \"Crazy Hop\" introduced in \"Crazy Taxi 2\", one of the maps from \"Crazy Taxi 2\", and a new map based on Las Vegas (\"Glitter Oasis\"). The game adds an additional four characters to select from. The game allows the player to unlock other modes of transport besides the taxi, including a stroller, a pedal bike and a carriage. The mini-games in \"Crazy Taxi 3\" are featured in a \"Crazy X\" arrangement. An arcade version, entitled \"Crazy Taxi: High Roller\" was created in 2003 using the same three maps as the home console version.\n\n\"\" was ported to the Game Boy Advance by Graphics State and distributed by THQ, and released on April 8, 2003. This version is fundamentally the same as the \"Crazy Taxi\" console versions, featuring the San Francisco and Los Angeles-themed maps but with a smaller selection of mini-games, adapted to play on the portable device using the Graphics State \"Rush\" engine. Specifically, while the city and streets are rendered using 3D graphics, the taxi, passengers, and other traffic are represented by sprites in order to work on the limited GBA hardware. Richard Whittall, creative director for Graphics State, noted that \"Catch A Ride\" was \"about the most technically challenging game you could do on a handheld machine\" at the time of its release.\n\n\"\" was developed by Sniper Studios with support from members of the original Hitmaker \"Crazy Taxi\" design team in Japan and released for the PlayStation Portable on August 7, 2007. The game effectively is a port of both \"Crazy Taxi\" and \"Crazy Taxi 2\" to this system without any changes to the gameplay, but lacking the in-game advertising and the original soundtracks. While the game includes its own soundtrack, the player can use their own music stored on the PSP; as noted by Jeff Hasson of Sniper Studios, \"for those hard core fans that must have The Offspring playing, they have that option with the Custom Music Player.\" The player can also record up to a minute of gameplay footage that can then be shared with friends. The game includes a multiplayer feature over the PSP's ad-hoc wireless system, allowing players to vie for fares within the same map, including the ability to steal passengers from another player. Multiplayer games such as time trials or \"C-R-A-Z-Y\" runs (a variation of the game \"Horse\") can also be played sharing a common PSP, with each player taking turns within the game.\n\n\"Crazy Taxi City Rush\" was announced by Sega in March 2014 as a free-to-play mobile title for iOS and Android systems. \"City Rush\" is a mission-based runner similar in concept to \"Temple Run\", where the player does not have direct control of the speed of the taxi but can use touch motions to swerve in traffic and make turns.\n\n\"Crazy Taxi Tycoon\", previously known as \"Crazy Taxi Gazillionaire\" is another mobile spin-off game released in 2017 for iOS and Android. Unlike other games, this is a top-down endless business management simulator and idle clicker where players run a taxi business and hire drivers to defeat a ridesharing megacorporation called Prestige Mega Corp.\n\nThe original Dreamcast version of \"Crazy Taxi\" was one of the best-selling games for the console. The game was the second largest selling Dreamcast game in the United States in 2000, selling nearly 750,000 units, and is the third best-selling Dreamcast game in the United States with over a million units sold. The game was praised for capturing the arcade flavor, and possibly exceeding it by making the controls and execution of the crazy stunts easier to perform. The game did suffer from \"pop-up\" due to limited draw distances, and loss of frame rate when a large number of cars were on the screen. Critics noted the lack of depth given that it was a port of an arcade game, some difficulties with the destination arrow, and the poor \"Wolfman Jack\" impersonation of the in-game announcer.\n\n\"Crazy Taxi 2\" was well received by reviewers with the new features helping to expand play from the original game, though some thought that more drastic changes could have been made in the sequel. Despite the addition of new maps, the lack of new gameplay elements caused \"Crazy Taxi 3\" to be panned by reviewers. IGN noted in its review for \"Crazy Taxi 3\" that \"It's clear that the creative vibrancy that first imagined the Taxi series has waned considerably.\"\n\nThe ports of the original game to the PS2 and GameCube platforms are not considered as strong as the Dreamcast game. Both were noted to suffer from more \"pop-up\" than the Dreamcast version, as well as poorer controls, despite having the same gameplay features. Graphic problems plagued the \"Crazy Taxi: Catch a Ride\" port to the Game Boy Advance; as IGN stated, \"it's painfully obvious that the hardware just was never meant to push so much.\" Both PC ports for \"Crazy Taxi\" and \"Crazy Taxi 3\" also suffered from graphics problems.\n\nThe PSP ports of \"Crazy Taxi: Fare Wars\" have had a somewhat better reception than other ports. Reviews have complimented the game on the multiplayer additions and the ability to add a custom soundtrack – which led IGN to comment that \"Including this should be a no-brainer, but many PSP titles don't\" – but have noted some graphical glitches, the long loading times, and the lack of the original soundtracks for the games. The reviews of the controls of the game have mixed, with some praising the scheme on the PSP, while others have stated that the controls feel stiff and inconsistent. GameSpot's review noted that the gameplay in \"Crazy Taxi\" does not hold up well compared to more recent racing games across various platforms.\n\nA \"Crazy Taxi\" segment is featured in the \"Sega Carnival\" track in \"Sonic Riders\", including a hidden shortcut allowing racers to receive a ride from taxi driver Axel; a Crazy Taxi extreme gear can be unlocked as well. There is also a minigame based on \"Crazy Taxi\" in the EyeToy game, \"Sega Superstars\", in which players move around and shout to call one of the taxi drivers. B.D. Joe, who has appeared in most games in the series, appears as a playable character in the cross-series racing game, \"Sonic & Sega All-Stars Racing\". Sumo Digital's Steve \"S0L\" Lycett had to get approval from SEGA AM3 in order to use B.D. Joe in the game. He also appeared in the sequel, \"Sonic & All-Stars Racing Transformed\".\n\nSega has attempted to branch the \"Crazy Taxi\" franchise beyond the realm of video games, with varied results.\n\nIn addition to the video arcade games, Sega Enterprises, Inc. (USA) created a \"Crazy Taxi\" themed redemption game which was released in 2003. The player had to roll their coin or token down the sloped playing surface past a moving taxi model in the center of the playing field in order to hit one of eight targets (representing passengers) at the far end. Passengers were worth different points, from which the operator would then set the number of tickets to be won. The game incorporated music and sounds from the video games.\nThere have been two attempts to create a movie based on the \"Crazy Taxi\" franchise. In 2001, Goodman-Rosen Productions acquired the rights for the movie, with Richard Donner lined up to direct the film. Donner had stated \"I loved playing 'Crazy Taxi,' and I realized immediately that it had the potential to be a big summer event movie.\" The movie would have been tied with other merchandise items such as T-shirts and toys, according to Jane Thompson, director of licensing for Sega of America. However, this initial attempt stalled due to an \"absence of plot elements\" according to Movie Insider. After this option expired, Mindfire Entertainment acquired the rights to a \"Crazy Taxi\" movie based on the game franchise in 2002, with an expected release date in mid-2003. However, since then, no further news on the film has been forthcoming.\n\nIn 2003, Sega entered a contract with DSI Toys to produce a remote controlled car in their \"GearHead\" line based on the Crazy Taxi franchise, but DSI filed for chapter 7 bankruptcy later that year. \nSega has formed the production company Stories International and teaming up with Evan Cholfin for film and TV projects based on theirs games with Crazy Taxi as an animated project.\n\n"}
{"id": "35594914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35594914", "title": "Current Law Statutes Annotated", "text": "Current Law Statutes Annotated\n\nCurrent Law Statutes Annotated, published between 1994 and 2004 as Current Law Statutes, contains annotated copies of Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed since 1947 and Acts of the Scottish Parliament passed since 1999. It is published by Sweet & Maxwell in London and by W Green in Edinburgh. It was formerly also published by Stevens & sons in London.\n\nIn 1982, Glanville Williams said that Current Law Statutes Annotated was \"useful\" at the first appearance of an Act. It was not, however, regularly kept up to date by reissues or supplements. Williams said this was a \"defect\". In 1995, Downes called it \"the most useful\" collection of Acts published yearly.\n\nIn 1989, the Law Library Journal said that the annotations in Current Law Statutes Annotated were \"not helpful\". In 1995, Downes said the commentary on important legislation was \"comprehensive\".\n\nPublication of Current Law Statutes began in 1948.\n\nIrish Current Law Statutes Annotated is published by Sweet & Maxwell at Dublin. Publication began in 1984. It contains copies of Acts of the Oireachtas proclaimed since the beginning of 1984, in their English dress.\n\n"}
{"id": "2749252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2749252", "title": "Cyrus Cylinder", "text": "Cyrus Cylinder\n\nThe Cyrus Cylinder () or Cyrus Charter ( \"\") is an ancient clay cylinder, now broken into several pieces, on which is written a declaration in Akkadian cuneiform script in the name of Persia's Achaemenid king Cyrus the Great. It dates from the 6th century BC and was discovered in the ruins of Babylon in Mesopotamia (modern Iraq) in 1879. It is currently in the possession of the British Museum, which sponsored the expedition that discovered the cylinder. It was created and used as a foundation deposit following the Persian conquest of Babylon in 539 BC, when the Neo-Babylonian Empire was invaded by Cyrus and incorporated into his Persian Empire.\n\nThe text on the Cylinder praises Cyrus, sets out his genealogy and portrays him as a king from a line of kings. The Babylonian king Nabonidus, who was defeated and deposed by Cyrus, is denounced as an impious oppressor of the people of Babylonia and his low-born origins are implicitly contrasted to Cyrus' kingly heritage. The victorious Cyrus is portrayed as having been chosen by the chief Babylonian god Marduk to restore peace and order to the Babylonians. The text states that Cyrus was welcomed by the people of Babylon as their new ruler and entered the city in peace. It appeals to Marduk to protect and help Cyrus and his son Cambyses. It extols Cyrus as a benefactor of the citizens of Babylonia who improved their lives, repatriated displaced people and restored temples and cult sanctuaries across Mesopotamia and elsewhere in the region. It concludes with a description of how Cyrus repaired the city wall of Babylon and found a similar inscription placed there by an earlier king.\n\nThe Cylinder's text has traditionally been seen by biblical scholars as corroborative evidence of Cyrus' policy of the repatriation of the Jewish people following their Babylonian captivity (an act that the Book of Ezra attributes to Cyrus), as the text refers to the restoration of cult sanctuaries and repatriation of deported peoples. This interpretation has been disputed, as the text identifies only Mesopotamian sanctuaries, and makes no mention of Jews, Jerusalem, or Judea. The Cylinder has also been referred to by Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the last Shah of Iran as the first declaration of universal human rights, a view rejected by some historians as anachronistic and a misunderstanding of the Cylinder's generic nature as a typical statement made by a new monarch at the beginning of his reign. Neil MacGregor, former Director of the British Museum, has stated that the cylinder was \"the first attempt we know about running a society, a state with different nationalities and faiths—a new kind of statecraft\". It was adopted as a national symbol of Iran by the Imperial State which put it on display in Tehran in 1971 to commemorate 2,500 year celebration of the Persian Empire. On October 14, the Mohammad Reza Shah's sister, Princess Ashraf Pahlavi, presented the United Nations Secretary General U Thant with a replica of the Cylinder. The princess asserted that \"the heritage of Cyrus was the heritage of human understanding, tolerance, courage, compassion and, above all, human liberty\".\n\nThe Assyro-British archaeologist Hormuzd Rassam discovered the Cyrus Cylinder in March 1879 during a lengthy programme of excavations in Mesopotamia carried out for the British Museum. It had been placed as a foundation deposit in the foundations of the Ésagila, the city's main temple. Rassam's expedition followed on from an earlier dig carried out in 1850 by the British archaeologist Austen Henry Layard, who excavated three mounds in the same area but found little of importance. In 1877, Layard became Britain's ambassador to the Ottoman Empire, which ruled Mesopotamia at the time. He helped Rassam, who had been his assistant in the 1850 dig, to obtain a \"firman\" (decree) from the Ottoman Sultan Abdul Hamid II to continue the earlier excavations. The \"firman\" was only valid for a year but a second \"firman\", with much more liberal terms, was issued in 1878. It was granted for two years (through to 15 October 1880) with the promise of an extension to 1882 if required. The Sultan's decree authorised Rassam to \"pack and dispatch to England any antiquities [he] found … provided, however, there were no duplicates\". A representative of the Sultan was instructed to be present at the dig to examine the objects as they were uncovered.\n\nWith permission secured, Rassam initiated a large-scale excavation at Babylon and other sites on behalf of the Trustees of the British Museum. He undertook the excavations in four distinct phases. In between each phase, he returned to England to bring back his finds and raise more funds for further work. The Cyrus Cylinder was found on the second of his four expeditions to Mesopotamia, which began with his departure from London on 8 October 1878. He arrived in his home town of Mosul on 16 November and travelled down the Tigris to Baghdad, which he reached on 30 January 1879. During February and March, he supervised excavations on a number of Babylonian sites, including Babylon itself.\nHe soon uncovered a number of important buildings including the Ésagila temple. This was a major shrine to the chief Babylonian god Marduk, although its identity was not fully confirmed until the German archaeologist Robert Koldewey's excavation of 1900. The excavators found a large number of business documents written on clay tablets buried in the temple's foundations where they discovered the Cyrus Cylinder. Rassam gave conflicting accounts of where his discoveries were made. He wrote in his memoirs, \"Asshur and the land of Nimrod\", that the Cylinder had been found in a mound at the southern end of Babylon near the village of Jumjuma or Jimjima. However, in a letter sent on 20 November 1879 to Samuel Birch, the Keeper of Oriental Antiquities at the British Museum, he wrote, \"The Cylinder of Cyrus was found at Omran [Tell Amran-ibn-Ali] with about six hundred pieces of inscribed terracottas before I left Baghdad.\" He left Baghdad on 2 April, returning to Mosul and departing from there on 2 May for a journey to London which lasted until 19 June.\n\nThe discovery was announced to the public by Sir Henry Rawlinson, the President of the Royal Asiatic Society, at a meeting of the Society on 17 November 1879. He described it as \"one of the most interesting historical records in the cuneiform character that has yet been brought to light,\" though he erroneously described it as coming from the ancient city of Borsippa rather than Babylon. Rawlinson's \"Notes on a newly-discovered Clay Cylinder of Cyrus the Great\" were published in the society's journal the following year, including the first partial translation of the text.\n\nThe Cyrus Cylinder is a barrel-shaped cylinder of baked clay measuring by at its maximum diameter. It was created in several stages around a cone-shaped core of clay within which there are large grey stone inclusions. It was built up with extra layers of clay to give it a cylindrical shape before a fine surface slip of clay was added to the outer layer, on which the text is inscribed. It was excavated in several fragments, having apparently broken apart in antiquity. Today it exists in two main fragments, known as \"A\" and \"B\", which were reunited in 1972.\n\nThe main body of the Cylinder, discovered by Rassam in 1879, is fragment \"A\". It underwent restoration in 1961, when it was re-fired and plaster filling was added. The smaller fragment, \"B\", is a section measuring by . The latter fragment was acquired by J.B. Nies of Yale University from an antiquities dealer. Nies published the text in 1920. The fragment was apparently broken off the main body of the Cylinder during the original excavations in 1879 and was either removed from the excavations or was retrieved from one of Rassam's waste dumps. It was not confirmed as part of the Cylinder until Paul-Richard Berger of the University of Münster definitively identified it in 1970. Yale University lent the fragment to the British Museum temporarily (but, in practice, indefinitely) in exchange for \"a suitable cuneiform tablet\" from the British Museum collection.\n\nAlthough the Cylinder clearly post-dates Cyrus the Great's conquest of Babylon in 539 BC, the date of its creation is unclear. It is commonly said to date to the early part of Cyrus's reign over Babylon, some time after 539 BC. The British Museum puts the Cylinder's date of origin at between 539–530 BC.\n\nThe surviving inscription on the Cyrus Cylinder consists of 45 lines of text written in Akkadian cuneiform script. The first 35 lines are on fragment \"A\" and the remainder are on fragment \"B\". A number of lines at the start and end of the text are too badly damaged for more than a few words to be legible.\n\nThe text is written in an extremely formulaic style that can be divided into six distinct parts:\n\nThe beginning of the text is partly broken; the surviving content reprimands the character of the deposed Babylonian king Nabonidus. It lists his alleged crimes, charging him with the desecration of the temples of the gods and the imposition of forced labor upon the populace. According to the proclamation, as a result of these offenses, the god Marduk abandoned Babylon and sought a more righteous king. Marduk called forth Cyrus to enter Babylon and become its new ruler.\n\nMidway through the text, the writer switches to a first-person narrative in the voice of Cyrus, addressing the reader directly. A list of his titles is given (in a Mesopotamian rather than Persian style): \"I am Cyrus, king of the world, great king, powerful king, king of Babylon, king of Sumer and Akkad, king of the four quarters [of the earth], son of Cambyses, great king, king of Anshan, descendent of Teispes, great king, king of Anshan, the perpetual seed of kingship, whose reign Bel [Marduk] and Nebo love, and with whose kingship, to their joy, they concern themselves.\" He describes the pious deeds he performed after his conquest: he restored peace to Babylon and the other cities sacred to Marduk, freeing their inhabitants from their \"yoke,\" and he \"brought relief to their dilapidated housing (thus) putting an end to their (main) complaints\". He repaired the ruined temples in the cities he conquered, restored their cults, and returned their sacred images as well as their former inhabitants which Nabonidus had taken to Babylon. Near the end of the inscription Cyrus highlights his restoration of Babylon's city wall, saying: \"I saw within it an inscription of Ashurbanipal, a king who preceded me.\" The remainder is missing but presumably describes Cyrus's rededication of the gateway mentioned.\n\nA partial transcription by F. H. Weissbach in 1911 was supplanted by a much more complete transcription after the identification of the \"B\" fragment; this is now available in German and in English. Several editions of the full text of the Cyrus Cylinder are available online, incorporating both \"A\" and \"B\" fragments.\n\nA false translation of the text – affirming, among other things, the abolition of slavery and the right to self-determination, a minimum wage and asylum – has been promoted on the Internet and elsewhere. As well as making claims that are not found on the real cylinder, it refers to the Zoroastrian divinity Ahura Mazda rather than the Mesopotamian god Marduk. The false translation has been widely circulated; alluding to its claim that Cyrus supposedly has stated that \"Every country shall decide for itself whether or not it wants my leadership.\" Iranian Nobel Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi in her acceptance speech described Cyrus as \"the very emperor who proclaimed at the pinnacle of power 2,500 years ago that … he would not reign over the people if they did not wish it\".\n\nThe British Museum announced in January 2010 that two inscribed clay fragments, which had been in the Museum's collection since 1881, had been identified as part of a cuneiform tablet that was inscribed with the same text as the Cyrus Cylinder. The fragments had come from the small site of Dailem near Babylon and the identification was made by Professor Wilfred Lambert, formerly of the University of Birmingham, and Irving Finkel, curator in charge of the Museum's Department of the Middle East.\n\nIn 1983 two fossilized horse bones inscribed with cuneiform signs surfaced in China which Professor Oliver Gurney at Oxford later identified as coming from the Cyrus Cylinder. The discovery of these objects aroused much discussion about possible connections between ancient Mesopotamia and China, although their authenticity was doubted by many scholars from the beginning and they are now generally regarded as forgeries. \n\nThe history of the putative artifact goes back almost a century. The earliest record goes back to a Chinese doctor named Xue Shenwei, who sometime prior to 1928 was shown a photo of a rubbing of one of the bones by an antiquities dealer named Zhang Yi'an. Although not able to view the bones at that time, Xue Shenwei later acquired one of them from another antiquities dealer named Wang Dongting in 1935 and then the second via a personal connection named Ke Yanling around 1940. While Xue did not recognize the script on the bones he guessed at its antiquity and buried the bones for safekeeping during the Cultural Revolution. Then, in 1983 Xue presented the bones to the Palace Museum in Beijing where Liu Jiuan and Wang Nanfang of the State Administration of Cultural Heritage undertook their study. These officials identified the script as cuneiform and asked the Assyriologists Chi Yang and Wu Yuhong to work on the inscriptions. Identification of the source text proceeded slowly until 1985, when Wu Yuhong along with Oxford Assyriologist Stephanie Dalley and Oliver Gurney recognized the text in one bone as coming from the Cyrus Cylinder. One year later Wu Yuhong presented his findings at the 33rd Rencontre Assyriologique and published them in a journal article.\n\nAfter that the second bone inscription remained undeciphered until 2010, when Irving Finkel worked on it. In that same year the British Museum held a conference dedicated to the artifacts. Based on the serious textual errors in the inscription, including the omission of a large number of signs from the Cyrus Cylinder, Wu Yuhong argued the inscriptions were most likely copied from the cylinder while housed in the British Museum or from an early modern publication based upon it. However he acknowledged the remote possibility it was copied in late antiquity. Irving Finkel disputed this conclusion based on the relative obscurity of the Cyrus Cylinder until recent decades and the mismatch in paleography between the bone inscriptions and the hand copies found in early editions from the 1880's. \n\nFinally, after the workshop concluded, an 1884 edition of the Cyrus Cylinder by E. A. Wallis Budge came to Irving Finkel's attention. This publication used an idiosyncratic typeface and featured a handcopy for only a section of the whole cylinder. However the typeface in that edition matched the paleography on the bone inscriptions and the extract of the cylinder published in the book matched that of the bone as well. This convinced Finkel that the bone inscriptions were early modern forgeries and that has remained the majority opinion since then.\n\nAccording to the British Museum, the Cyrus Cylinder reflects a long tradition in Mesopotamia where, from as early as the third millennium BC, kings began their reigns with declarations of reforms. Cyrus's declaration stresses his legitimacy as the king, and is a conspicuous statement of his respect for the religious and political traditions of Babylon. The British Museum and scholars of the period describe it as an instrument of ancient Mesopotamian propaganda.\n\nThe text is a royal building inscription, a genre which had no equivalent in Old Persian literature. It illustrates how Cyrus co-opted local traditions and symbols to legitimize his conquest and control of Babylon. Many elements of the text were drawn from long-standing Mesopotamian themes of legitimizing rule in Babylonia: the preceding king is reprimanded and he is proclaimed to have been abandoned by the gods for his wickedness; the new king has gained power through the divine will of the gods; the new king rights the wrongs of his predecessor, addressing the welfare of the people; the sanctuaries of the gods are rebuilt or restored, offerings to the gods are made or increased and the blessings of the gods are sought; and repairs are made to the whole city, in the manner of earlier rightful kings.\n\nBoth continuity and discontinuity are emphasized in the text of the Cylinder. It asserts the virtue of Cyrus as a gods-fearing king of a traditional Mesopotamian type. On the other hand, it constantly discredits Nabonidus, reviling the deposed king's deeds and even his ancestry and portraying him as an impious destroyer of his own people. As Fowler and Hekster note, this \"creates a problem for a monarch who chooses to buttress his claim to legitimacy by appropriating the 'symbolic capital' of his predecessors\". The Cylinder's reprimand of Nabonidus also discredits Babylonian royal authority by association. It is perhaps for this reason that the Achaemenid rulers made greater use of Assyrian rather than Babylonian royal iconography and tradition in their declarations; the Cylinder refers to the Assyrian king Ashurbanipal as \"my predecessor\", rather than any native Babylonian ruler.\n\nThe Cylinder itself is part of a continuous Mesopotamian tradition of depositing a wide variety of symbolic items, including animal sacrifices, stone tablets, terracotta cones, cylinders and figures. Newly crowned kings of Babylon would make public declarations of their own righteousness when beginning their reigns, often in the form of declarations that were deposited in the foundations of public buildings. Some contained messages, while others did not, and they had a number of purposes: elaboration of a building's value, commemoration of the ruler or builder and the magical sanctification of the building, through the invocation of divine protection.\n\nThe cylinder was not intended to be seen again after its burial, but the text inscribed on it would have been used for public purposes. Archive copies were kept of important inscriptions and the Cylinder's text may likewise have been copied. In January 2010, the British Museum announced that two cuneiform tablets in its collection had been found to be inscribed with the same text as that on the Cyrus Cylinder, which, according to the Museum, \"show that the text of the Cylinder was probably a proclamation that was widely distributed across the Persian Empire\".\nA statue of the cylinder is now on exhibit in Los Angeles on avenue of the stars as a gift from the Persian people to the city of Los Angeles \nThe Cyrus Cylinder bears striking similarities to older Mesopotamian royal inscriptions. Two notable examples are the Cylinder of Marduk-apla-iddina II, who seized the Babylonian throne in 722/1 BC, and the annals of Sargon II of Assyria, who conquered Babylon twelve years later. As a conqueror, Marduk-apla-iddina faced many of the same problems of legitimacy that Cyrus did when he conquered Babylon. He declares himself to have been chosen personally by Marduk, who ensured his victory. When he took power, he performed the sacred rites and restored the sacred shrines. He states that he found a royal inscription placed in the temple foundations by an earlier Babylonian king, which he left undisturbed and honored. All of these claims also appear in Cyrus's Cylinder. Twelve years later, the Assyrian king Sargon II defeated and exiled Marduk-apla-iddina, taking up the kingship of Babylonia. Sargon's annals describe how he took on the duties of a Babylonian sovereign, honouring the gods, maintaining their temples and respecting and upholding the privileges of the urban elite. Again, Cyrus's Cylinder makes exactly the same points. Nabonidus, Cyrus's deposed predecessor as king of Babylon, commissioned foundation texts on clay cylinders – such as the Cylinder of Nabonidus, also in the British Museum – that follows the same basic formula.\n\nThe text of the Cylinder thus indicates a strong continuity with centuries of Babylonian tradition, as part of an established rhetoric advanced by conquerors. As Kuhrt puts it:\n\nThe familiarity with long-established Babylonian tropes suggests that the Cylinder was authored by the Babylonian priests of Marduk, working at the behest of Cyrus. It can be compared with another work of around the same time, the \"Verse Account of Nabonidus\", in which the former Babylonian ruler is excoriated as the enemy of the priests of Marduk and Cyrus is presented as the liberator of Babylon. Both works make a point of stressing Cyrus's qualifications as a king from a line of kings, in contrast to the non-royal ancestry of Nabonidus, who is described by the Cylinder as merely \"maţû\", \"insignificant\".\n\nThe \"Verse Account\" is so similar to the Cyrus Cylinder inscription that the two texts have been dubbed an example of \"literary dependence\" – not the \"direct\" dependence of one upon the other, but mutual dependence upon a common source. This is characterised by the historian Morton Smith as \"the propaganda put out in Babylonia by Cyrus's agents, shortly before Cyrus's conquest, to prepare the way of their lord\". This viewpoint has been disputed; as Simon J. Sherwin of the University of Cambridge puts it, the Cyrus Cylinder and the \"Verse Account\" are \"after the event\" compositions which reuse existing Mesopotamian literary themes and do not need to be explained as the product of pre-conquest Persian propaganda.\n\nThe German historian Hanspeter Schaudig has identified a line on the Cylinder (\"He [i.e. Marduk] saved his city Babylon from its oppression\") with a line from tablet VI of the Babylonian \"Epic of Creation\", \"Enûma Eliš\", in which Marduk builds Babylon. Johannes Haubold suggests that reference represents Cyrus's takeover as a moment of ultimate restoration not just of political and religious institutions, but of the cosmic order underpinning the universe.\n\nThe Cyrus Cylinder's vilification of Nabonidus is consistent with other Persian propaganda regarding the deposed king's rule. In contrast to the Cylinder's depiction of Nabonidus as an illegitimate ruler who ruined his country, the reign of Nabonidus was largely peaceful, he was recognised as a legitimate king and he undertook a variety of building projects and military campaigns commensurate with his claim to be \"the king of Babylon, the universe, and the four corners [of the Earth]\".\n\nThe Assyriologist Paul-Alain Beaulieu has interpreted Nabonidus's exaltation of the moon god Sin as \"an outright usurpation of Marduk's prerogatives by the moon god\". Although the Babylonian king continued to make rich offerings to Marduk, his greater devotion to Sin was unacceptable to the Babylonian priestly elite. Nabonidus came from the unfashionable north of Babylonia, introduced foreign gods and went into a lengthy self-imposed exile which was said to have prevented the celebration of the vital New Year festival. Cyrus's conquest of Babylonia was resisted by Nabonidus and his supporters, as the Battle of Opis demonstrated. Iranologist Pierre Briant comments that \"it is doubtful that even before the fall of [Babylon] Cyrus was impatiently awaited by a population desperate for a 'liberator'.\" However, Cyrus's takeover as king does appear to have been welcomed by some of the Babylonian population. The Judaic historian Lisbeth S. Fried says that there is little evidence that the high-ranking priests of Babylonia during the Achaemenid period were Persians and characterises them as Babylonian collaborators.\n\nThe inscription goes on to describe Cyrus returning to their original sanctuaries the statues of the gods that Nabonidus had brought to the city before the Persian invasion. This restored the normal cultic order to the satisfaction of the priesthood. It alludes to temples being restored and deported groups being returned to their homelands but does not imply an empire-wide programme of restoration. Instead, it refers to specific areas in the border region between Babylonia and Persia, including sites that had been devastated by earlier Babylonian military campaigns. The Cylinder indicates that Cyrus sought to acquire the loyalty of the ravaged regions by funding reconstruction, the return of temple properties and the repatriation of the displaced populations. However, it is unclear how much actually changed on the ground; there is no archaeological evidence for any rebuilding or repairing of Mesopotamian temples during Cyrus's reign.\n\nThe text presents Cyrus as entering Babylon peacefully and being welcomed by the population as a liberator. This presents an implicit contrast with previous conquerors, notably the Assyrian rulers Tukulti-Ninurta I, who invaded and plundered Babylon in the 12th century BC, and Sennacherib, who did the same thing 150 years before Cyrus conquered the region. The massacre and enslavement of conquered people was common practice and was explicitly highlighted by conquerors in victory statements. The Cyrus Cylinder presents a very different message; Johannes Haubold notes that it portrays Cyrus's takeover as a harmonious moment of convergence between Babylonian and Persian history, not a natural disaster but the salvation of Babylonia.\n\nHowever, the Cylinder's account of Cyrus's conquest clearly does not tell the whole story, as it suppresses any mention of the earlier conflict between the Persians and the Babylonians; Max Mallowan describes it as a \"skilled work of tendentious history\". The text omits the Battle of Opis, in which Cyrus's forces defeated and apparently massacred Nabonidus's army. Nor does it explain a two-week gap reported by the Nabonidus Chronicle between the Persian entry into Babylon and the surrender of the Esagila temple. Lisbeth S. Fried suggests that there may have been a siege or stand-off between the Persians and the temple's defenders and priests, about whose fate the Cylinder and Chronicle makes no mention. She speculates that they were killed or expelled by the Persians and replaced by more pro-Persian members of the Babylonian priestly elite. As Walton and Hill put it, the claim of a wholly peaceful takeover acclaimed by the people is \"standard conqueror's rhetoric and may obscure other facts\". Describing the claim of one's own armies being welcomed as liberators as \"one of the great imperial fantasies\", Bruce Lincoln, Professor of Divinity at the University of Chicago, notes that the Babylonian population repeatedly revolted against Persian rule in 522 BC, 521 BC, 484 BC and 482 BC (though not against Cyrus or his son Cambeses). The rebels sought to restore national independence and the line of native Babylonian kings – perhaps an indication that they were not as favourably disposed towards the Persians as the Cylinder suggests.\n\nThe Persians' policy towards their subject people, as described by the Cylinder, was traditionally viewed as an expression of tolerance, moderation and generosity \"on a scale previously unknown\". The policies of Cyrus toward subjugated nations have been contrasted to those of the Assyrians and Babylonians, who had treated subject peoples harshly; he permitted the resettling of those who had been previously deported and sponsored the reconstruction of religious buildings. Cyrus was often depicted positively in Western tradition by sources such as the Old Testament of the Bible and the Greek writers Herodotus and Xenophon. The \"Cyropaedia\" of Xenophon was particularly influential during the Renaissance when Cyrus was romanticised as an exemplary model of a virtuous and successful ruler.\n\nModern historians argue that while Cyrus's behavior was indeed conciliatory, it was driven by the needs of the Persian Empire, and was not an expression of personal tolerance per se. The empire was too large to be centrally directed; Cyrus followed a policy of using existing territorial units to implement a decentralized system of government. The magnanimity shown by Cyrus won him praise and gratitude from those he spared. The policy of toleration described by the Cylinder was thus, as biblical historian Rainer Albertz puts it, \"an expression of conservative support for local regions to serve the political interests of the whole [empire]\". Another biblical historian, Alberto Soggin, comments that it was more \"a matter of practicality and economy … [as] it was simpler, and indeed cost less, to obtain the spontaneous collaboration of their subjects at a local level than to have to impose their sovereignty by force\".\n\nThe Bible records that some Jews (who were exiled by the Babylonians), returned to their homeland from Babylon, where they had been settled by Nebuchadnezzar, to rebuild the temple following an edict from Cyrus. The Book of Ezra (1–4:5) provides a narrative account of the rebuilding project. Scholars have linked one particular passage from the Cylinder to the Old Testament account:\n\nThis passage has often been interpreted as a reference to the benign policy instituted by Cyrus of allowing exiled peoples, such as the Jews, to return to their original homelands. The Cylinder's inscription has been linked with the reproduction in the Book of Ezra of two texts that are claimed to be edicts issued by Cyrus concerning the repatriation of the Jews and the reconstruction of the Temple in Jerusalem. The two edicts (one in Hebrew and one in Aramaic) are substantially different in content and tone, leading some historians to argue that one or both may be a \"post hoc\" fabrication. The question of their authenticity remains unresolved, though it is widely believed that they do reflect some sort of Persian royal policy, albeit perhaps not one that was couched in the terms given in the text of the biblical edicts.\n\nThe dispute over the authenticity of the biblical edicts has prompted interest in this passage from the Cyrus Cylinder, specifically concerning the question of whether it indicates that Cyrus had a \"general\" policy of repatriating subject peoples and restoring their sanctuaries. The text of the Cylinder is very specific, listing places in Mesopotamia and the neighboring regions. It does not describe any general release or return of exiled communities but focuses on the return of Babylonian deities to their own home cities. It emphasises the re-establishment of local religious norms, reversing the alleged neglect of Nabonidus – a theme that Amélie Kuhrt describes as \"a literary device used to underline the piety of Cyrus as opposed to the blasphemy of Nabonidus\". She suggests that Cyrus had simply adopted a policy used by earlier Assyrian rulers of giving privileges to cities in key strategic or politically sensitive regions and that there was no general policy as such. Lester L. Grabbe, a historian of early Judaism, has written that \"the religious policy of the Persians was not that different from the basic practice of the Assyrians and Babylonians before them\" in tolerating – but not promoting – local cults, other than their own gods.\n\nCyrus may have seen Jerusalem, situated in a strategic location between Mesopotamia and Egypt, as worth patronising for political reasons. His Achaemenid successors generally supported indigenous cults in subject territories as an expression of their legitimacy as rulers, thereby currying favour with the cults' devotees. Conversely, the Persian kings could, and did, destroy the shrines of peoples who had rebelled against them, as happened at Miletos in 494 BC following the Ionian Revolt. Historian Ernst Badian has noted regarding the Ionian revolt \"[that] Harpagus 'devastated' all of lower Asia (1.177) is obviously an exaggeration, for the Ionians soon returned to their trading activities.\" The Persians evidently did give permission for its reconstruction, which would have been required given the circumstances of its destruction. However, the Cylinder's text does not describe any general policy of a return of exiles or mention any sanctuary outside Babylonia; the biblical historian Bob Becking concludes that \"it has nothing to do with Judeans, Jews or Jerusalem.\" Peter Ross Bedford argues that the Cylinder \"is thus not a manifesto for a general policy regarding indigenous cults and their worshippers throughout the empire\". Kuhrt comments that \"the purely Babylonian context of the Cylinder provides no proof\" of the historicity of Cyrus's return of the Jewish exiles and the rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem, though Becking links this with the lack of any references to the Jews in surviving Achaemenid texts – an indication that the Persians seem not to have regarded them as being of any great importance.\n\nThe German scholar Josef Wiesehöfer summarizes the widely held traditional view by noting that \"Many scholars have read into […] sentences [from the text of Cylinder] a confirmation of the Old Testament passages about the steps taken by Cyrus towards the erection of the Jerusalem temple and the repatriation of the Judaeans\" and this interpretation was, according to Wiesehöfer, for some scholars a strict belief \"that the instructions to this effect were actually provided in these very formulations of the Cyrus Cylinder\".\n\nThe Cylinder gained new prominence in the late 1960s when the last Shah of Iran called it \"the world's first charter of human rights\". The cylinder was a key symbol of the Shah's political ideology and is still regarded by some commentators as a charter of human rights, despite the disagreement of some historians and scholars.\n\nThe Cyrus Cylinder was dubbed the \"first declaration of human rights\" by the pre-Revolution Iranian government, a reading prominently advanced by Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, in a 1967 book, \"The White Revolution of Iran\". The Shah identified Cyrus as a key figure in government ideology and associated his government with the Achaemenids. He wrote that \"the history of our empire began with the famous declaration of Cyrus, which, for its advocacy of humane principles, justice and liberty, must be considered one of the most remarkable documents in the history of mankind.\" The Shah described Cyrus as the first ruler in history to give his subjects \"freedom of opinion and other basic rights\". In 1968, the Shah opened the first United Nations Conference on Human Rights in Tehran by saying that the Cyrus Cylinder was the precursor to the modern Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nIn his 1971 Nowruz (New Year) speech, the Shah declared that 1971 would be Cyrus the Great Year, during which a grand commemoration would be held to celebrate 2,500 years of Persian monarchy. It would serve as a showcase for a modern Iran in which the contributions that Iran had made to world civilization would be recognized. The main theme of the commemoration was the centrality of the monarchy within Iran's political system, associating the Shah of Iran with the famous monarchs of Persia's past, and with Cyrus in particular. The Shah looked to the Achaemenid period as \"a moment from the national past that could best serve as a model and a slogan for the imperial society he hoped to create\".\n\nThe Cyrus Cylinder was adopted as the symbol for the commemoration, and Iranian magazines and journals published numerous articles about ancient Persian history. The British Museum loaned the original Cylinder to the Iranian government for the duration of the festivities; it was put on display at the Shahyad Monument (now the Azadi Tower) in Tehran. The 2,500 year celebrations commenced on October 12, 1971 and culminated a week later with a spectacular parade at the tomb of Cyrus in Pasargadae. On October 14, the shah's sister, Princess Ashraf Pahlavi, presented the United Nations Secretary General U Thant with a replica of the Cylinder. The princess asserted that \"the heritage of Cyrus was the heritage of human understanding, tolerance, courage, compassion and, above all, human liberty\". The Secretary General accepted the gift, linking the Cylinder with the efforts of the United Nations General Assembly to address \"the question of Respect for Human Rights in Armed Conflict\". Since then the replica Cylinder has been kept at the United Nations Headquarters in New York City on the second floor hallway. The United Nations continues to promote the cylinder as \"an ancient declaration of human rights\".\n\nIn September 2010, former Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad officially opened the Cyrus Cylinder exhibition at the National Museum of Iran. After the Pahlavi era, it was the second time the cylinder was brought to Iran. It was also its longest-running exhibition inside the country. Ahmadinejad considers the Cyrus Cylinder as the incarnation of human values and a cultural heritage for all humanity, and called it the \"First Charter of Human Rights\". The British Museum had loaned the Cyrus Cylinder to the National Museum of Iran for four months.\n\nSome Iranian politicians such as MP Ali Motahari criticized Ahmadinejad for bringing the Cyrus Cylinder to Iran, although Tehran daily \"Kayhan\", viewed as an ultra-conservative newspaper, had opined that the Islamic Republic should never have returned the Cyrus Cylinder to Britain:\n\nAt the time, the Curator of the National Museum of Iran, Azadeh Ardakani, reported approximately 48,000 visitors to the Cylinder exhibition, amongst whom over 2000 were foreigners, including foreign ambassadors.\n\nThe interpretation of the Cylinder as a \"charter of human rights\" has been described by some historians as \"rather anachronistic\" and tendentious. It has been dismissed as a \"misunderstanding\" and characterized as political propaganda devised by the Pahlavi regime. The German historian Josef Wiesehöfer comments that the portrayal of Cyrus as a champion of human rights is as illusory as the image of the \"humane and enlightened Shah of Persia\". D. Fairchild Ruggles and Helaine Silverman describe the Shah's aim as being to legitimise the Iranian nation and his own regime, and to counter the growing influence of Islamic fundamentalism by creating an alternative narrative rooted in the ancient Persian past.\n\nWriting in the immediate aftermath of the Shah's anniversary commemorations, the British Museum's C.B.F. Walker comments that the \"essential character of the Cyrus Cylinder [is not] a general declaration of human rights or religious toleration but simply a building inscription, in the Babylonian and Assyrian tradition, commemorating Cyrus's restoration of the city of Babylon and the worship of Marduk previously neglected by Nabonidus\". Two professors specialising in the history of the ancient Near East, Bill T. Arnold and Piotr Michalowski, comment: \"Generically, it belongs with other foundation deposit inscriptions; it is not an edict of any kind, nor does it provide any unusual human rights declaration as is sometimes claimed.\" Lloyd Llewellyn-Jones of the University of Edinburgh notes that \"there is nothing in the text\" that suggests the concept of human rights. Neil MacGregor comments:\n\nSome historians, as well as writers on human rights, have supported the interpretation of the Cyrus Cylinder as a human rights charter. W.J. Talbott, an American philosopher, believes the concept of human rights is a 20th-century concept but describes Cyrus as \"perhaps the earliest known advocate of religious tolerance\" and suggests that \"ideas that led to the development of human rights are not limited to one cultural tradition.\" The Iranian lawyer Hirad Abtahi argues that viewing the Cylinder as merely \"an instrument of legitimizing royal rule\" is unjustified, as Cyrus issued the document and granted those rights when he was at the height of his power, with neither popular opposition nor visible external threat to force his hand. A former Iranian prime minister, Hassan Pirnia, writing in the early 20th century, characterizes the Cylinder as \"discuss[ing] human rights in a way unique for the era, dealing with ways to protect the honor, prestige, and religious beliefs of all the nations dependent to Iran in those days\".\n\nThe Cyrus Cylinder has been displayed in the British Museum since its formal acquisition in 1880. It has been loaned four times – twice to Iran, between 7–22 October 1971 in conjunction with the 2,500 year celebration of the Persian Empire and again from September–December 2010, once to Spain from March–June 2006, and once to the United States in a traveling exhibition from March–October 2013. Many replicas have been made. Some were distributed by the Shah following the 1971 commemorations, while the British Museum and National Museum of Iran have sold them commercially.\n\nThe British Museum's ownership of the Cyrus Cylinder has been the cause of some controversy in Iran, although the artifact was obtained legally and was not excavated on Iranian soil but on former Ottoman territory (modern Iraq). When it was loaned in 1971, the Iranian press campaigned for its transfer to Iranian ownership. The Cylinder was brought back to London without difficulty, but the British Museum's Board of Trustees subsequently decided that it would be \"undesirable to make a further loan of the Cylinder to Iran.\"\n\nIn 2005–2006 the British Museum mounted a major exhibition on the Persian Empire, \"Forgotten Empire: the World of Ancient Persia.\" It was held in collaboration with the Iranian government, which loaned the British Museum a number of iconic artefacts in exchange for an undertaking that the Cyrus Cylinder would be loaned to the National Museum of Iran in return.\n\nThe planned loan of the Cylinder was postponed in October 2009 following the June 2009 Iranian presidential election so that the British Museum could be \"assured that the situation in the country was suitable\". In response, the Iranian government threatened to end cooperation with the British Museum if the Cylinder was not loaned within the following two months. This deadline was postponed despite appeals by the Iranian government but the Cylinder did eventually go on display in Tehran in September 2010 for a four-month period. The exhibition was very popular, attracting 48,000 people within the first ten days and about 500,000 people by the time it closed in January 2011. However, at its opening, Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad mingled Islamic Republican and ancient Persian symbology which commentators inside and outside Iran criticised as an overt appeal to religious nationalism.\n\nOn November 28, 2012, the BBC announced the first United States tour of the Cylinder. Under the headline “British Museum lends ancient 'bill of rights' cylinder to US”, Museum director Neil MacGregor declared that “The cylinder, often referred to as the first bill of human rights, ‘must be shared as widely as possible’\". The British Museum itself announced the news in its press release, saying \"First declaration of human rights’ to tour five cities in the United States\". According to the British Museum's website for the Cylinder's US exhibition \"CyrusCylinder2013.com\", the tour started in March 2013 and included Washington DC’s Smithsonian's Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco and culminated at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, in October 2013.\n\nThe cylinder, along with thirty two other associated objects from the British Museum collection, including a pair of gold armlets from the Oxus Treasure and the Darius Seal, were part of an exhibition titled 'The Cyrus Cylinder and Ancient Persia – A New Beginning' at the Prince of Wales Museum in Mumbai, India, from December 21, 2013 to February 25, 2014. It was organised by the British Museum and the Prince of Wales Museum in partnership with Sir Dorabji Tata Trust, Sir Ratan Tata Trust and Navajbai Ratan Tata Trust, all set up by luminaries from the Parsi community, who are descendants of Persian Zoroastrians, who hold Cyrus in great regard, as many scholars consider him as a follower of Zoroastrianism.\n\nThe Freedom Sculpture () is a gold and silver statue located on Santa Monica Boulevard in the Beverly Hills, California.\nThe design of the Freedom Sculpture was created by artist and architect Cecil Balmond. It is themed on the Cyrus Cylinder from 2,500 years ago, which is sometimes considered the first declaration of human rights. It commemorates the declaration of Cyrus the Great, King of ancient Iran, granting individual and religious freedoms to those within his empire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "91815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91815", "title": "Debt bondage", "text": "Debt bondage\n\nDebt bondage, also known as debt slavery or bonded labour, is the pledge of a person's services as security for the repayment for a debt or other obligation, where the terms of the repayment are not clearly or reasonably stated, and the person who is holding the debt and thus has some control over the laborer, does not intend to ever admit that the debt has been repaid. The services required to repay the debt may be undefined, and the services' duration may be undefined, thus allowing the person supposedly owed the debt to demand services indefinitely. Debt bondage can be passed on from generation to generation.\n\nCurrently, debt bondage is the most common method of enslavement with an estimated 8.1 million people bonded to labour illegally as cited by the International Labour Organization in 2005. Debt bondage has been described by the United Nations as a form of \"modern day slavery\" and the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery seeks to abolish the practice. \n\nThough most countries in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa are parties to the Convention, the practice is still prevalent primarily in these regions. It is predicted that 84 to 88% of the bonded labourers in the world are in South Asia. Lack of prosecution or insufficient punishment of this crime are the leading causes of the practice as it exists at this scale today.\n\nThough the Forced Labour Convention of 1930 by the International Labour Organization, which included 187 parties, sought to bring organised attention to eradicating slavery through forms of forced labor, formal opposition to debt bondage in particular came at the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery in 1956. The convention in 1956 defined debt bondage under Article 1, section (a):\"Debt bondage, that is to say, the status or condition arising from a pledge by a debtor of his personal services or of those of a person under his control as security for a debt if the value of those services as reasonably assessed is not applied towards the liquidation of the debt or the length and nature of those services are not respectively limited and defined;\"When a pledge to provide services to pay off debt is made by an individual, the employer often illegally inflates interest rates at an unreasonable amount, making it impossible for the individual to leave bonded labour. When the bonded labourer dies, debts are often passed on to children.\n\nAlthough debt bondage, forced labour, and human trafficking are all defined as forms or variations of slavery, each term is distinct. Debt bondage differs from forced labour and human trafficking in that a person consciously pledges to work as a means of repayment of debt without being placed into labor against will.\n\nDebt bondage only applies to individuals who have no hopes of leaving the labor due to inability to ever pay debt back. Those who offer their services to repay a debt and the employer reduces the debt accordingly are not in \"debt bondage\".\n\nIn the 19th century, people in Asia were bonded to labor due to a variety of reasons ranging from farmers mortgaging harvests to drug addicts in need for opium in China. When a natural disaster occurred or food was scarce, people willingly chose debt bondage as a means to a secure life. In the early 20th century in Asia, most laborers tied to debt bondage had been born into it. In certain regions, such as in Burma, debt bondage was far more common than slavery. Many went into bondage to pay off interest on a loan or to pay taxes, and as they worked, often on farms, lodging, meals, and clothing fees were added to the existing debt causing overall debt and interest to increase. These continued added loan values made leaving servitude unattainable.\n\nMoreover, after the development of the international economy, more workers were needed for the pre-industrial economies of Asia during the 19th century. A greater demand for labor was needed in Asia to power exports to growing industrial countries like the United States and Germany. Cultivation of cash crops like coffee, cocoa, and sugar and exploitation of minerals like gold and tin led farm owners to search for individuals in need of loans for the sake of keeping laborers permanently. In particular, the Indian indenture system was based on debt bondage by which an estimated two million Indians were transported to various colonies of European powers to provide labor for plantations. It started from the end of slavery in 1833 and continued until 1920.\n\nImportant to both East and West Africa, pawnship, defined by Wilks as \"the use of people in transferring their rights for settlement of debt,\" was common during the 17th century. The system of pawnship occurred simultaneously with the slave trade in Africa. Though the export of slaves from Africa to the Americas is often analyzed, slavery was rampant internally as well. Development of plantations like those in Zanzibar in East Africa reflected the need for internal slaves. Furthermore, many of the slaves that were exported were male as brutal and labor-intensive conditions favored the male body build. This created gender implications for individuals in the pawnship system as more women were pawned than men and often sexually exploited within the country.\n\nAfter the abolition of slavery in many countries in the 19th century, Europeans still needed laborers. Moreover, conditions for emancipated slaves were harsh. Discrimination was rampant within the labor market, making attainment of a sustainable income for former slaves tough. Because of these conditions, many freed slaves preferred to live through slavery-like contracts with their masters in a manner parallel to debt bondage.\n\nDebt bondage was \"quite normal\" in classical antiquity. The poor or those who had fallen irredeemably in debt might place themselves into bondage \"voluntarily\"—or more precisely, might be compelled by circumstances to choose debt bondage as a way to anticipate and avoid worse terms that their creditors might impose on them. In the Greco-Roman world, debt bondage was a distinct legal category into which a free person might fall, in theory temporarily, distinguished from the pervasive practice of slavery, which included enslavement as a result of defaulting on debt. Many forms of debt bondage existed in both ancient Greece and ancient Rome.\n\nDebt bondage was widespread in ancient Greece. The only city-state known to have abolished it is Athens, as early as the Archaic period under the debt reform legislation of Solon. Both enslavement for debt and debt bondage were practiced in Ptolemaic Egypt. By the Hellenistic period, the limited evidence indicates that debt bondage had replaced outright enslavement for debt.\n\nThe most onerous debt bondage was various forms of \"paramonē\", \"indentured labor.\" As a matter of law, a person subjected to \"paramonē\" was categorically free, and not a slave, but in practice his freedom was severely constrained by his servitude. Solon's reforms occurred in the context of democratic politics at Athens that required clearer distinctions between \"free\" and \"slave\"; as a perverse consequence, chattel slavery increased.\n\nThe selling of one's own child into slavery is likely in most cases to have resulted from extreme poverty or debt, but strictly speaking is a form of chattel slavery, not debt bondage. The exact legal circumstances in Greece, however, are far more poorly documented than in ancient Rome.\n\n\"Nexum\" was a debt bondage contract in the early Roman Republic. Within the Roman legal system, it was a form of \"mancipatio\". Though the terms of the contract would vary, essentially a free man pledged himself as a bond slave \"(nexus)\" as surety for a loan. He might also hand over his son as collateral. Although the bondsman might be subjected to humiliation and abuse, as a legal citizen he was supposed to be exempt from corporal punishment. \"Nexum\" was abolished by the \"Lex Poetelia Papiria\" in 326 BC, in part to prevent abuses to the physical integrity of citizens who had fallen into debt bondage.\n\nRoman historians illuminated the abolition of \"nexum\" with a traditional story that varied in its particulars; basically, a \"nexus\" who was a handsome but upstanding youth suffered sexual harassment by the holder of the debt. In one version, the youth had gone into debt to pay for his father's funeral; in others, he had been handed over by his father. In all versions, he is presented as a model of virtue. Historical or not, the cautionary tale highlighted the incongruities of subjecting one free citizen to another's use, and the legal response was aimed at establishing the citizen's right to liberty \"(libertas)\", as distinguished from the slave or social outcast.\n\nCicero considered the abolition of \"nexum\" primarily a political maneuver to appease the common people \"(plebs)\": the law was passed during the Conflict of the Orders, when plebeians were struggling to establish their rights in relation to the hereditary privileges of the patricians. Although \"nexum\" was abolished as a way to secure a loan, debt bondage might still result after a debtor defaulted.\n\nWhile serfdom under feudalism was the predominant political and economic system in Europe in the High Middle Ages, persisting in the Austrian Empire till 1848 and the Russian Empire until 1861 (details), debt bondage (and slavery) provided other forms of unfree labour.\n\n\n\nThough the figures differ from those of the International Labour Organization, researcher Siddharth Kara has calculated the number of slaves in the world by type, and determined that at the end of 2011 there were 18 to 20.5 million bonded laborers. Bonded laborers work in industries today that produce goods including but not limited to frozen shrimp, bricks, tea, coffee, diamonds, marble, and apparel.\n\nAlthough India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh all have laws prohibiting debt bondage, it is estimated by Kara that 84 to 88% of the bonded laborers in the world are in South Asia. Figures by the Human Rights Watch in 1999 are drastically higher estimating 40 million workers, composed mainly of children, are tied to labor through debt bondage in India alone.\n\nResearch by Kara estimates there to be between 55,000 and 65,000 brick kilns in South Asia with 70% of them in India. Other research estimates 6,000 kilns in Pakistan alone. Total revenue from brick kilns in South Asia is estimated by Kara to be $13.3 to $15.2 billion. Many of the brick kiln workers are migrants and travel between brick kiln locations every few months. Kiln workers often live in extreme poverty and many began work at kilns through repayment of a starting loan averaging $150 to $200. Kiln owners offer laborers \"friendly loans\" to avoid being criminalized in breaking bonded labor laws. Bonded brick kiln laborers, including children, work in harsh and unsafe conditions as the heat from the kiln may cause heat stroke and a number of other medical conditions. Although these laborers do have the option to default on loans, there is fear of death and violence by brick kiln owners if they choose to do so.\n\nAn essential grain to the South Asian diet, rice is harvested throughout India and Nepal in particular. In India, more than 20% of agricultural land is used to grow rice. Rice mill owners often employ workers who live in harsh conditions on farms. Workers receive such low wages that they must borrow money from their employers causing them to be tied to the rice mill through debt. For example, in India, the average pay rate per day was $0.55 American dollars as recorded in 2006. Though some workers may be able to survive minimally from their compensation, uncontrollable life events such as an illness require loans. Families, including children, work day and night to prepare the rice for export by boiling it, drying it in the sun, and sifting through it for purification. Furthermore, families who live on rice mill production sites are often excluded from access to hospitals and schools.\n\nThough there are not reliable estimates of bonded laborers in Sub-Saharan Africa to date from credible sources, the Global Slavery Index estimates the total number of those enslaved in this region is 6.25 million. In countries like Ghana, it is estimated that 85% of people enslaved are tied to labor. Additionally, this region includes Mauritania, the country with the highest proportion of slavery in the world as an estimated 20% of its population is enslaved through methods like debt bondage.\nThe Environmental Justice Foundation found human rights violations in the fisheries on the coasts of South and West Africa including labor exploitation. Exporter fish companies drive smaller businesses and individuals to lower profits, causing bankruptcy. In many cases, recruitment to these companies occurs by luring small business owners and migrant workers through debt bondage. In recruiting individual fishers, fees are sometimes charged by a broker to use ports which opens the debt cycle.\n\nAfter countries began to formally abolish slavery, unemployment was rampant for blacks in South Africa and Nigeria pushing black women to work as domestic workers. Currently, estimates from the International Labour Organization state that between 800,000 and 1.1 million domestic workers are in South Africa. Many of these domestic servants become bonded to labor in a process similar to other industries in Asia. The wages given to servants are often so poor that loans are taken when servants are in need of more money, making it impossible to escape. The hours of working for domestic servants are unpredictable, and because many servants are women, their young children are often left under the care of older children or other family members. Moreover, these women can work up to the age of 75 and their daughters are likely to be servants in the same households.\n\nA 1994 report of Burmese prostitutes in Thailand reports compulsory indebtedness is common for girls in forced prostitution, especially those transported across the border. They are forced to work off their debt, often with 100 percent interest, and to pay for their room, food and other items. In addition to debt bondage, the women and girls face a wide range of abuses, including illegal confinement; forced labor; rape; physical abuse; and more.\n\nThe International Labour Organization (ILO) estimates that $51.2 billion is made annually in the exploitation of workers through debt bondage. Though the employers actively take part in accruing the debt of laborers, buyers of products and services in the country of manufacturing and abroad also contribute to the profitability of this practice.\n\nIn many of the industries in which debt bondage is common like brick kilns or fisheries, entire families are often involved in paying of the debt of one individual, including children. These children generally do not have access to education thus making it impossible to get out of poverty. Moreover, if a relative who still is in debt dies, the bondage is passed on to another family member, usually the children. At the International Labour Organization Convention, this cycle was labeled as the \"Worst Forms of Child Labor.\" Researchers like Basu and Chau link the occurrence of child labor through debt bondage with factors like labor rights and the stage of development of an economy. Although minimum age labor laws are present in many regions with child debt bondage, the laws are not enforced especially with regard to the agrarian economy.\n\nDebt bondage has been described by the United Nations as a form of \"modern day slavery\" and is prohibited by international law. It is specifically dealt with by article 1(a) of the United Nations 1956 Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery. It persists nonetheless especially in developing countries, which have few mechanisms for credit security or bankruptcy, and where fewer people hold formal title to land or possessions. According to some economists, like Hernando de Soto, this is a major barrier to development in these countries. For example, entrepreneurs do not dare to take risks and cannot get credit because they hold no collateral and may burden families for generations to come.\n\nIndia was the first country to pass legislation directly prohibiting debt bondage through the Bonded Labor System (Abolition) Act, 1976. Less than two decades later, Pakistan also passed a similar act in 1992 and Nepal passed the Kamaiya Labour (Prohibition) Act in 2002. Despite the fact that these laws are in place, debt bondage in South Asia is still widespread.\n\nIn India, the rise of Dalit activism, government legislation starting as early as 1949, as well as ongoing work by NGOs and government offices to enforce labour laws and rehabilitate those in debt, appears to have contributed to the reduction of bonded labour there. However, according to research papers presented by the International Labour Organization, there are still many obstacles to the eradication of bonded labour in India.\n\nIn many of the countries like South Africa, Nigeria, Mauritania, and Ghana in which debt bondage is prevalent, there are not laws that either state direct prohibition or appropriate punishment. For example, South Africa passed the Basic Conditions of Employment Act of 1997 which prohibits forced labor but the punishment is up to 3 years of jail. In addition, though many of the countries in Sub-Saharan Africa have laws that vaguely prohibit debt bondage, prosecution of such crimes rarely occurs.\n\n\nContemporary:\n\nOrganisational Reports\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49315", "title": "Default (law)", "text": "Default (law)\n\nIn law, a default is the failure to do something required by law or to appear\nat a required time in legal proceedings.\n\nIn the United States, for example, when a party has failed to file meaningful response to pleadings within\nthe time allowed, with the result that only one side of a controversy has been presented\nto the court, the party who has pleaded a claim for relief and received no response may request entry of default. In some jurisdictions the court may proceed to enter judgment immediately: others require that the plaintiff file a\nnotice of intent to take the default judgment and serve it on the unresponsive party.\nIf this notice is not opposed, or no adequate justification for the delay or lack\nof response is presented, then the plaintiff is entitled to judgment in his favor. Such a judgment is referred to as a \"default judgment\" and, unless otherwise ordered, has the same effect as a judgment entered in a contested case.\n\nIt is possible to vacate or remove the default judgment, depending on the particular state's law.\n\nEntry of default in the United States district courts is governed by Rule 55 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.\n"}
{"id": "17289060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17289060", "title": "Drag-along right", "text": "Drag-along right\n\nDrag-along right (DAR) is a legal concept in corporate law.\n\nUnder the concept, if the majority shareholder(s) of an entity sells their stake, the prospective owner(s) have the right to force the remaining minority shareholders to join the deal. However, the owner must usually offer the same terms and conditions to the minority shareholders as to the majority shareholder(s). Drag-along rights are fairly standard terms in a stock purchase agreement.\n\nThis right protects majority shareholders (allowing them to sell to an owner desiring total control of the entity, without being encumbered by holdout investors) but also protects minority shareholders (who can sell their investment on the same terms and conditions as the majority shareholder). This differs from a tag-along right, which also allows minority shareholders to sell on the same terms and conditions (and requires the new owner to offer them), but does not require them to sell.\n\nDrag-along rights typically terminate upon an initial public offering.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "26224440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26224440", "title": "Ernesto Garzón Valdés", "text": "Ernesto Garzón Valdés\n\nErnesto Garzón Valdés (born February 17, 1927 in Córdoba, Argentina) is an Argentine philosopher.\nHe has been professor of philosophy of law at the universities of Córdoba and La Plata in Argentina and, upon being exiled in Germany during the administration of Isabel Perón and the subsequent dictatorship in Argentina, at the universities of Bonn, Cologne and Mainz. \nHe worked at the embassy of the Republic of Argentina in Bonn as a cultural attaché and as plenipotentiary minister until 1974, when he was expelled from the diplomatic service for political reasons. He then taught legal philosophy at Bonn and Cologne, until he gained a chair in political science at Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz in 1981. He has been visiting professor at various European and Latin-American Universities.\nThe Universities of Córdoba (Argentina), Palermo (Argentina), Valencia (Spain), Helsinki (Finland), Santa Fe (Argentina), Valparaiso (Chile), Alicante (Spain), Buenos Aires, and Pompeu Fabra (Barcelona, Spain) have awarded him with the title of Doctor honoris causa.\n\nBroadly speaking, his work can be described as political theory with foundations in legal philosophy. He is a classic liberal, who especially cares about the universal protection of the individual against despotism of state authorities. This perspective is not only manifested in his disaffirmation of group-related rights, but also in the rejection of cultural relativism. He wants to clearly separate rights from arbitrary definitions made by state authorities. Topics like the relationship between the rule of law and paternalism and tolerance appealed to him even before they received widespread attention. His choice of topics has probably been influenced by his own experiences with Argentine politics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20402646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20402646", "title": "FTC v. Dean Foods Co.", "text": "FTC v. Dean Foods Co.\n\nFTC v. Dean Foods Co., 384 U.S. 597 (1966), is a 1966 decision of the United States Supreme Court holding that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) may sue in federal court to obtain a preliminary injunction to maintain the status quo against the consummation of a merger that the agency persuasively contends violates the antitrust laws.\n\nMore broadly, the \"Dean Foods\" case stands for the proposition that a federal agency may, by invoking the \"All Writs Act,\" seek equitable relief in federal court against a person's threatened action that will substantially interfere with the agency's performance of its statutory duty and thus adversely affect the relevant court's ability to review the agency's ultimate order with respect to the threatened action.\n\nDean Foods and Bowman Dairy, two substantial competitors in the sale of milk in the Chicago area, agreed to a merger. Dean was the second largest firm and Bowman the third or fourth, and together they accounted for 23% of milk sales in the area. The FTC filed an administrative complaint to prevent the merger and sought to maintain the status quo pending completion of administrative hearings by filing a petition with the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction under the All Writs Act.\n\nThe FTC argued that preliminary injunctive relief was needed pending completion of the administrative process in the FTC. According to the agency, otherwise, Dean would eliminate Bowman as a competitive entity by selling off its milk routes, its plants, and its equipment. This would prevent restoration of Dean as an effective competitor if the agency later found the merger unlawful. The FTC maintained that such preemptive action by Dean would effectively deprive the court of appeals of its appellate jurisdiction to review the FTC’s final order, because any order would be meaningless as a practical matter. On that basis, the FTC maintained, the All Writs Act supplied the court of appeals for the area in which the companies operated with jurisdiction to issue preliminary injunctive relief so that a meaningful appeal could later occur.\n\nThe Seventh Circuit dismissed the petition on the ground that the FTC lacked authority to seek such relief (that is, it had no standing to sue), since Congress had not passed any statute giving the FTC specific authority to seek a preliminary injunction. At that point Dean immediately began closing Bowman down and eliminating it as a business.\n\nThe Supreme Court (5-4), in an opinion by Justice Tom C. Clark. recognized that the FTC had several times, without success, asked Congress to pass a law authorizing it to obtain preliminary injunctions in merger cases. The Court said that this did not matter: \"Congress neither enacted nor rejected these proposals; it simply did not act on them.\" In any case, the Court added, nothing has limited the courts' historic powers under the All Writs Act. \"We thus hold that the Commission has standing to seek preliminary relief from the Court of Appeals under the circumstances alleged.\"\n\nJustice Abe Fortas wrote a strong dissent, saying that such awesome power to interfere with mergers should not be entrusted to the FTC without a specific authorization from Congress. Fortas had been legal advisor to Federated Department Stores, Inc, at the time of its four-month fight with the chairman and co-founder of Bullock's, Inc., which had involved an intra-family proxy fight in which such an injunction had been threatened. Federated eventually acquired Bullock's, but it was forced to compromise with the FTC in a consent decree in which Federated agreed to make no more acquisitions until 1970. \n\nThe reasoning of the Court is not limited to the FTC and by its terms would apply with equal force to any other federal agency in similar circumstances. \n\nHowever, the principle may be limited to situations of great urgency. In \"FTC v. PepsiCo, Inc.\", the FTC sought a preliminary injunction against a merger and the Second Circuit denied it. The court said that, under \"Dean Foods\", an injunction can issue only if the Commission can show that \"an effective remedial order, once the merger was implemented, would otherwise be virtually impossible, thus rendering the enforcement of any final decree of divestiture futile.\" The Second Circuit thought that the merger probably violated the antitrust laws but did not believe that effective relief would be “virtually impossible.”\n\nIn \"Sampson v. Murray\", the Supreme Court held \"Dean Foods\" inapplicable to a stay of a GSA dismissal, stating: \"In direct contrast to the claim of the FTC in \"Dean Foods\" that its jurisdiction would be effectively defeated by denial of relief, the Commission here has argued that judicial action interferes with the normal agency processes. And we see nothing in the record to suggest that any judicial review available under the doctrine of \"Service v. Dulles\" would be defeated in the same manner as review in \"Dean Foods\".\"\n\nIn the wake of similar decisions, in 1973 Congress passed specific legislation granting the FTC authority to bring suits in district courts to obtain preliminary injunctions to prevent consummation of mergers pending action before the FTC, under a legal standard requiring likelihoods of success on the merits rather than a defeat of the agency proceeding. In addition, Congress passed the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, which also created administrative clearance procedures having the effect of delaying consummation of mergers while agency evaluation of the competitive impact took place.\n\nIn 1984, the D.C. Circuit relied on \"Dean Foods\" as authority for issuance of an order to compel the FCC to act on a petition that it had allegedly delayed unreasonably in acting upon.\n\n"}
{"id": "43234300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43234300", "title": "Foreign Legal Consultant", "text": "Foreign Legal Consultant\n\nForeign Legal Consultants (Korean: 외국법자문사; Chinese: 外國法諮問士) are lawyers from foreign countries licensed to practice law in South Korea.\n\nBefore becoming a Foreign Legal Consultant, a lawyer must:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071444", "title": "Formal contract", "text": "Formal contract\n\nThe Twelfth Edition of \"Business Law: Text Cases\" (Clarkson, Miller & Cross), says that formal contracts are, \"contracts that require a special form or method of creation to be enforceable.\" It uses negotiable instruments as an example of formal contracts, such as: checks, drafts, promissory notes, and certificates of deposit. These example are all required to have special formation under the Uniform Commercial Code.\n"}
{"id": "10122305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10122305", "title": "Gewerblicher Rechtsschutz und Urheberrecht, Rechtsprechungs-Report", "text": "Gewerblicher Rechtsschutz und Urheberrecht, Rechtsprechungs-Report\n\nGewerblicher Rechtsschutz und Urheberrecht Rechtsprechungs-Report (GRUR-RR) is a monthly intellectual property law journal published in German. It comprises case law decisions \"supplementing the court rulings section\" of the main \"Gewerblicher Rechtsschutz und Urheberrecht\" (GRUR) journal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20685105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20685105", "title": "Gradual Integration", "text": "Gradual Integration\n\nGradual Integration is the name given to a model presented to the European Union in 2005, whereby Turkey, whose potential membership in the EU has met with reluctance on the part of the European countries, would instead be able to gradually reform its economic and social systems in order to promote increased compatibility with the other members. Since December 2004, Turkey is no longer considered a \"third state\", but a candidate for EU accession.\n"}
{"id": "914828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914828", "title": "Hakan Şükür", "text": "Hakan Şükür\n\nHakan Şükür (born 1 September 1971) is a retired Turkish footballer who played as a striker. Nicknamed the \"Bull of the Bosphorus\" and \"Kral\" (king), he spent the majority of his professional career with Galatasaray, being a three-time \"Gol Kralı\" (Goal King, title and award given to the annual top goalscorer of the Süper Lig), representing the club in three different spells and winning a total of 14 major titles.\n\nŞükür represented Turkey a total of 112 times, scoring 51 goals, making him the nation's top goalscorer and 19th in the world at the time of his retirement. One of the most prolific strikers of the modern era, he netted 383 goals throughout his club career as well as the fastest ever in a World Cup, in 2002. He retired from football in 2008, only scoring once in single digits for his main team in 13 seasons; he was renowned for his heading ability.\n\nIn the 2011 general elections, he was elected as an Istanbul MP for the Justice and Development Party. He resigned from the party in December 2013, continuing to serve as an independent.\n\nBorn in Adapazarı, Sakarya Province, Şükür began his football career with local club Sakaryaspor, making his professional debut shortly after his 17th birthday. His first goal came in a match against Eskişehirspor on 26 February 1989: with the match tied 2–2, he entered the pitch as a substitute and scored the winning goal; he went on to score a further 18 Süper Lig goals in his three-year spell with the club.\n\nIn the summer of 1990, Şükür joined fellow first division side Bursaspor. He scored six goals in 27 games in his second season, helping the team to a sixth-place finish, and making his Turkish national team debut shortly after.\n\nSubsequently, Şükür signed for national giants Galatasaray SK. Nicknamed the \"Bull of the Bosphorus\", he scored 19 goals in 30 matches in his first year with the club, helping it win both the league and cup titles, adding 16 and 19, respectively, in the next two seasons and attracting the attention of Torino FC. In 1995 he moved to the Italian club, becoming the second Turkish player to ever play in the Serie A, but returned to his country and Galatasaray in the following winter transfer window, failing to settle and only netting once in the league.\n\nUpon his return to Galatasaray, Şükür regained his scoring form, scoring 16 goals in the league and helping the club win the cup. The following season, he collected 38 goals in the league, tying him for second-most goals scored in a season with Metin Oktay, one goal behind record holder Tanju Çolak; both players were playing for Galatasaray when they broke the record. Şükür also finished third in the ESM Golden Boot rankings with 57 points, behind Mário Jardel (60) and Ronaldo (68). He won the \"Gol Kralı\" award the following two seasons, netting 33 and 18 goals respectively, with the Istanbul side winning the title in all three seasons.\n\nIn the 1999–2000 season, Şükür's last with Galatasaray in his second stint, the team completed a domestic double for the second year in succession, and added the year's UEFA Cup, becoming the first Turkish side to win a European title; in the 4–1 penalty shootout win against Arsenal he scored on his attempt, having netted 10 times in 17 games during the campaign.\nŞükür then moved to Italy again, this time to Inter Milan, scoring six goals in 35 official games. His appearances were limited by the presence of Ronaldo and Christian Vieri in the team's attack and January 2002, after one-and-a-half seasons, he signed with another team in the country, Parma FC, but was unable to produce again, only finding the net three times. Having been released, on 9 December he joined Blackburn Rovers in the Premier League for the remainder of the campaign, signed by former Galatasaray manager Graeme Souness. His spell began with him sustaining a broken leg in training which ruled him out for two months, after which made his debut for the club on 1 March 2003, replacing the injured Egil Østenstad at half time in a 1–0 home win over Manchester City; he scored twice from nine appearances, both goals coming in a 4–0 defeat of Fulham at Loftus Road on 7 April.\n\nŞükür returned to Galatasaray on 7 July 2003, after failing to negotiate a new contract with Blackburn. He scored 12 times in 28 league games in his first season, and 18 in the following, with the team winning the 2005 Turkish cup during that timeframe. Also, on 3 December 2003, he found the net twice in a 2–0 home defeat of Juventus F.C. for the 2003–04 UEFA Champions League. In November 2003, to celebrate UEFA's Jubilee, he was selected as Turkey's Golden Player by the Turkish Football Federation, as their most outstanding player of the past 50 years.\n\nIn the 2005–06 season, Şükür again scored in double digits (ten) as Galatasaray again won the league. After helping the club win a record-tying seventeenth first division title in 2007–08, netting 11 goals, he decided to retire from the game, aged nearly 37. Subsequently, he often appeared as a television pundit on TRT. During his career, he scored 38 goals in all European competitions.\n\nŞükür won his first cap for Turkey in a friendly with Luxembourg in March 1992 – his debut being awarded by German manager Sepp Piontek – scoring his first international goal in his next match, against Denmark, and totalling six in his first 11 appearances. He netted seven in qualification for UEFA Euro 1996 and started all of the matches at the finals in England, in which they were eliminated in the group stage without scoring a single goal.\n\nŞükür scored eight times in qualification for the 1998 FIFA World Cup: half of those in a 6–4 home win over Wales on 20 August 1997, but Turkey did not reach the play-offs. At Euro 2000 he netted twice for the quarterfinalists, in a 2–0 group stage win against co-hosts Belgium.\n\nDuring the 2002 World Cup, held in South Korea and Japan, Şükür scored once for Turkey in seven matches as the national team finished in third place. On 29 June he scored the fastest ever goal in a FIFA World Cup, netting against South Korea 10.8 seconds into the third-place play-off (3–2 win).\n\nOf his 112 senior appearances, Şükür captained Turkey in 30. After appearing in some Euro 2008 qualifiers, notably scoring four against Moldova in a 5–0 win in Frankfurt, Germany, he was not selected for the finals, his last game being a 0–1 home loss to Greece at the age of 36 (17 October 2007).\n\nŞükür is of Albanian origin. Both his parents are immigrants from Yugoslavia, his father being born in Pristina, and his mother in Skopje. His surname is spelled \"Shykyr\" in Albanian. His first wife, Esra Elbirlik, married him in a ceremony broadcast live on television, initiated by prime minister Tansu Çiller and performed by mayor of Istanbul Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.\n\nThe coupled divorced after four months, and Elbirlik and her family died in the 1999 İzmit earthquake. Şükür fathered three children with his second spouse, Beyda.\n\nOn 18 June 2011, Şükür was elected as a Member of Parliament to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the 2011 general elections, from the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP), representing the 2nd electoral district of Istanbul Province.\n\nOn 16 December 2013, Şükür, known for his links to the Islamic Gülen movement of the Turkish cleric Fethullah Gülen, resigned from his position in protest after the interdiction of the group's \"dershane\" system, and decided to continue working as an independent MP. He subsequently went on to work as a football pundit for Turkish Radio and Television Corporation; \n\nIn February 2016, Şükür was charged with insulting president Erdoğan on Twitter. In August, a warrant was issued for his arrest as he was charged with \"being a member of an armed terror group\".\n\nIn November 2017, Şükür fled Turkey, where he took up self-exile in San Francisco, California. He is currently planning to become a restauranteur in Palo Alto.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13487", "title": "Hermann Göring", "text": "Hermann Göring\n\nHermann Wilhelm Göring (or Goering; ; 12 January 1893 – 15 October 1946) was a German political and military leader as well as one of the most powerful figures in the Nazi Party (NSDAP) that ruled Germany from 1933 to 1945. A veteran World War I fighter pilot ace, he was a recipient of the \"Pour le Mérite\" (\"The Blue Max\"). He was the last commander of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 1 (Jasta 1), the fighter wing once led by Manfred von Richthofen.\n\nAn early member of the Nazi Party, Göring was among those wounded in Adolf Hitler's failed Beer Hall Putsch in 1923. While receiving treatment for his injuries, he developed an addiction to morphine which persisted until the last year of his life. After Hitler became Chancellor of Germany in 1933, Göring was named as Minister Without Portfolio in the new government. One of his first acts as a cabinet minister was to oversee the creation of the Gestapo, which he ceded to Heinrich Himmler in 1934. Following the establishment of the Nazi state, Göring amassed power and political capital to become the second most powerful man in Germany. He was appointed commander-in-chief of the Luftwaffe (air force), a position he held until the final days of the regime. Upon being named Plenipotentiary of the Four Year Plan in 1936, Göring was entrusted with the task of mobilizing all sectors of the economy for war, an assignment which brought numerous government agencies under his control and helped him become one of the wealthiest men in the country. After the Fall of France in 1940, he was bestowed the specially created rank of \"Reichsmarschall\", which gave him seniority over all officers in Germany's armed forces.\n\nBy 1941, Göring was at the peak of his power and influence, and Hitler designated him as his successor and deputy in all his offices. As the Second World War progressed, Göring's standing with Hitler and with the German public declined after the Luftwaffe proved incapable of preventing the Allied bombing of Germany's cities and resupplying surrounded German forces in Stalingrad. Around that time, Göring increasingly withdrew from the military and political scene to devote his attention to collecting property and artwork, much of which was taken from Jewish victims of the Holocaust. Informed on 22 April 1945 that Hitler intended to commit suicide, Göring sent a telegram to Hitler requesting permission to assume control of the Reich. Considering his request an act of treason, Hitler removed Göring from all his positions, expelled him from the party, and ordered his arrest.\n\nAfter the war, Göring was convicted of conspiracy, crimes against peace, war crimes and crimes against humanity at the Nuremberg trials. He was sentenced to death by hanging, but committed suicide by ingesting cyanide the night before the sentence was to be carried out.\n\nGöring was born on 12 January 1893 at the Marienbad Sanatorium in Rosenheim, Bavaria. His father, Heinrich Ernst Göring (31 October 1839 – 7 December 1913), a former cavalry officer, had been the first Governor-General of the German protectorate of South-West Africa (modern-day Namibia). Heinrich had three children from a previous marriage. Göring was the fourth of five children by Heinrich's second wife, Franziska Tiefenbrunn (1859–15 July 1943), a Bavarian peasant. Göring's elder siblings were Karl, Olga, and Paula; his younger brother was Albert. At the time that Göring was born, his father was serving as consul general in Haiti, and his mother had returned home briefly to give birth. She left the six-week-old baby with a friend in Bavaria and did not see the child again for three years, when she and Heinrich returned to Germany.\n\nGöring's godfather was Dr. Hermann Epenstein, a wealthy Jewish physician and businessman his father had met in Africa. Epenstein provided the Göring family, who were surviving on Heinrich's pension, first with a family home in Berlin-Friedenau, then in a small castle called Veldenstein, near Nuremberg. Göring's mother became Epenstein's mistress around this time, and remained so for some fifteen years. Epenstein acquired the minor title of Ritter (knight) von Epenstein through service and donations to the Crown.\n\nInterested in a career as a soldier from a very early age, Göring enjoyed playing with toy soldiers and dressing up in a Boer uniform his father had given him. He was sent to boarding school at age eleven, where the food was poor and discipline was harsh. He sold a violin to pay for his train ticket home, and then took to his bed, feigning illness, until he was told he would not have to return. He continued to enjoy war games, pretending to lay siege to the castle Veldenstein and studying Teutonic legends and sagas. He became a mountain climber, scaling peaks in Germany, at the Mont Blanc massif, and in the Austrian Alps. At sixteen he was sent to a military academy at Berlin Lichterfelde, from which he graduated with distinction. (During the Nuremberg war-crimes trials In 1946, psychologist Gustave Gilbert measured him as having an intelligence quotient (IQ) of 138.)\n\nGöring joined the Prince Wilhelm Regiment (112th Infantry) of the Prussian army in 1912. The next year his mother had a falling-out with Epenstein. The family was forced to leave Veldenstein and moved to Munich; Göring's father died shortly afterwards. When World War I began in August 1914, Göring was stationed at Mulhouse with his regiment.\n\nDuring the first year of World War I, Göring served with his infantry regiment in the area of Mülhausen, a garrison town less than 2 km from the French frontier. He was hospitalized with rheumatism, a result of the damp of trench warfare. While he was recovering, his friend Bruno Loerzer convinced him to transfer to what would become, by October 1916, the \"Luftstreitkräfte\" (\"air combat forces\") of the German army, but his request was turned down. Later that year, Göring flew as Loerzer's observer in \"Feldflieger Abteilung\" 25 (FFA 25) – Göring had informally transferred himself. He was discovered and sentenced to three weeks' confinement to barracks, but the sentence was never carried out. By the time it was supposed to be imposed, Göring's association with Loerzer had been made official. They were assigned as a team to FFA 25 in the Crown Prince's Fifth Army. They flew reconnaissance and bombing missions, for which the Crown Prince invested both Göring and Loerzer with the Iron Cross, first class.\n\nAfter completing the pilot's training course, Göring was assigned to \"Jagdstaffel\" 5. Seriously wounded in the hip in aerial combat, he took nearly a year to recover. He then was transferred to \"Jagdstaffel\" 26, commanded by Loerzer, in February 1917. He steadily scored air victories until May, when he was assigned to command \"Jagdstaffel\" 27. Serving with \"Jastas\" 5, 26, and 27, he continued to win victories. In addition to his Iron Crosses (1st and 2nd Class), he received the Zähringer Lion with swords, the Friedrich Order, the House Order of Hohenzollern with swords third class, and finally, in May 1918, the coveted \"Pour le Mérite\". According to Hermann Dahlmann, who knew both men, Göring had Loerzer lobby for the award. He finished the war with 22 victories. A thorough post-war examination of Allied loss records showed that only two of his awarded victories were doubtful. Three were possible and 17 were certain, or highly likely.\n\nOn 7 July 1918, following the death of Wilhelm Reinhard, successor to Manfred von Richthofen, Göring was made commander of the famed \"Flying Circus\", \"Jagdgeschwader\" 1. His arrogance made him unpopular with the men of his squadron.\n\nIn the last days of the war, Göring was repeatedly ordered to withdraw his squadron, first to Tellancourt airdrome, then to Darmstadt. At one point, he was ordered to surrender the aircraft to the Allies; he refused. Many of his pilots intentionally crash-landed their planes to keep them from falling into enemy hands.\n\nLike many other German veterans, Göring was a proponent of the Stab-in-the-back legend, the belief which held that the German Army had not really lost the war, but instead was betrayed by the civilian leadership: Marxists, Jews, and especially the Republicans, who had overthrown the German monarchy.\n\nGöring remained in aviation after the war. He tried barnstorming and briefly worked at Fokker. After spending most of 1919 living in Denmark, he moved to Sweden and joined Svensk Lufttrafik, a Swedish airline. Göring was often hired for private flights. During the winter of 1920–1921, he was hired by Count Eric von Rosen to fly him to his castle from Stockholm. Invited to spend the night, Göring may at this time have first seen the swastika emblem, which Rosen had set in the chimney piece as a family badge.\n\nThis was also the first time that Göring saw his future wife; the count introduced his sister-in-law, Baroness Carin von Kantzow (\"née\" Freiin von Fock). Estranged from her husband of ten years, she had an eight-year-old son. Göring was immediately infatuated and asked her to meet him in Stockholm. They arranged a visit at the home of her parents and spent much time together through 1921, when Göring left for Munich to take political science at the university. Carin obtained a divorce, followed Göring to Munich, and married him on 3 February 1922. Their first home together was a hunting lodge at Hochkreuth in the Bavarian Alps, near Bayrischzell, some from Munich. After Göring met Adolf Hitler and joined the Nazi Party (NSDAP) in 1922, they moved to Obermenzing, a suburb of Munich.\n\nGöring joined the Nazi Party in 1922 after hearing a speech by Hitler. He was given command of the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA) as the \"Oberster SA-Führer\" in 1923. He was later appointed an \"SA-Gruppenführer\" (Lieutenant General) and held this rank on the SA rolls until 1945. At this time, Carin—who liked Hitler—often played hostess to meetings of leading Nazis, including her husband, Hitler, Rudolf Hess, Alfred Rosenberg, and Ernst Röhm. Hitler later recalled his early association with Göring:\n\nHitler and the Nazi Party held mass meetings and rallies in Munich and elsewhere during the early 1920s, attempting to gain supporters in a bid for political power. Inspired by Benito Mussolini's March on Rome, the Nazis attempted to seize power on 8–9 November 1923 in a failed coup known as the Beer Hall Putsch. Göring, who was with Hitler leading the march to the War Ministry, was shot in the leg. Fourteen Nazis and four policemen were killed; many top Nazis, including Hitler, were arrested. With Carin's help, Göring was smuggled to Innsbruck, where he received surgery and was given morphine for the pain. He remained in hospital until 24 December. This was the beginning of his morphine addiction, which lasted until his imprisonment at Nuremberg. Meanwhile, the authorities in Munich declared Göring a wanted man. The Görings—acutely short of funds and reliant on the good will of Nazi sympathizers abroad—moved from Austria to Venice. In May 1924 they visited Rome, via Florence and Siena. Göring met Mussolini, who expressed an interest in meeting Hitler, who was by then in prison.\n\nPersonal problems continued to multiply. By 1925, Carin's mother was ill. The Görings—with difficulty—raised the money in the spring of 1925 for a journey to Sweden via Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Danzig (now Gdańsk). Göring had become a violent morphine addict; Carin's family were shocked by his deterioration. Carin, who was ill with epilepsy and a weak heart, had to allow the doctors to take charge of Göring; her son was taken by his father. Göring was certified a dangerous drug addict and was placed in Långbro asylum on 1 September 1925. He was violent to the point where he had to be confined in a straitjacket, but his psychiatrist felt he was sane; the condition was caused solely by the morphine. Weaned off the drug, he left the facility briefly, but had to return for further treatment. He returned to Germany when an amnesty was declared in 1927 and resumed working in the aircraft industry. Hitler, who had written \"Mein Kampf\" while in prison, had been released in December 1924. Carin Göring, ill with epilepsy and tuberculosis, died of heart failure on 17 October 1931.\n\nMeanwhile, the NSDAP was in a period of rebuilding and waiting. The economy had recovered, which meant fewer opportunities for the Nazis to agitate for change. The SA was reorganised, but with Franz Pfeffer von Salomon as its head rather than Göring, and the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) was founded in 1925, initially as a bodyguard for Hitler. Membership in the party increased from 27,000 in 1925 to 108,000 in 1928 and 178,000 in 1929. In the May 1928 elections the NSDAP only obtained 12 seats out of an available 491 in the Reichstag. Göring was elected as a representative from Bavaria. The Great Depression led to a disastrous downturn in the German economy, and in the 1930 election, the NSDAP won 6,409,600 votes and 107 seats. In May 1931, Hitler sent Göring on a mission to the Vatican, where he met the future Pope Pius XII.\n\nIn the July 1932 election, the Nazis won 230 seats to become far and away the largest party in the Reichstag. By longstanding tradition, the Nazis were thus entitled to select the President of the Reichstag, and elected Göring to the post.\n\nThe Reichstag fire occurred on the night of 27 February 1933. Göring was one of the first to arrive on the scene. Marinus van der Lubbe—a Communist radical—was arrested and claimed sole responsibility for the fire. Göring immediately called for a crackdown on Communists.\n\nThe Nazis took advantage of the fire to advance their own political aims. The Reichstag Fire Decree, passed the next day on Hitler's urging, suspended basic rights and allowed detention without trial. Activities of the German Communist Party were suppressed, and some 4,000 Party members were arrested. Göring demanded that the detainees should be shot, but Rudolf Diels, head of the Prussian political police, ignored the order. Some researchers, including William L. Shirer and Alan Bullock, are of the opinion that the NSDAP itself was responsible for starting the fire.\n\nAt the Nuremberg trials, General Franz Halder testified that Göring admitted responsibility for starting the fire. He said that, at a luncheon held on Hitler's birthday in 1942, Göring said, \"The only one who really knows about the Reichstag is I, because I set it on fire!\" In his own Nuremberg testimony, Göring denied this story.\n\nDuring the early 1930s, Göring was often in the company of Emmy Sonnemann, an actress from Hamburg. They were married on 10 April 1935 in Berlin; the wedding was celebrated on a huge scale. A large reception was held the night before at the Berlin Opera House. Fighter aircraft flew overhead on the night of the reception and the day of the ceremony, at which Hitler was best man. Göring's daughter, Edda, was born on 2 June 1938.\n\nWhen Hitler was named chancellor of Germany in January 1933, Göring was appointed as minister without portfolio, Minister of the Interior for Prussia, and Reich Commissioner of Aviation. Wilhelm Frick was named Reich Interior Minister. Frick and head of the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) Heinrich Himmler hoped to create a unified police force for all of Germany, but Göring on 30 November 1933 established a Prussian police force, with Rudolf Diels at its head. The force was called the \"Geheime Staatspolizei\", or Gestapo. Göring, thinking that Diels was not ruthless enough to use the Gestapo effectively to counteract the power of the SA, handed over control of the Gestapo to Himmler on 20 April 1934. By this time, the SA numbered over two million men.\n\nHitler was deeply concerned that Ernst Röhm, the chief of the SA, was planning a coup. Himmler and Reinhard Heydrich plotted with Göring to use the Gestapo and SS to crush the SA. Members of the SA got wind of the proposed action and thousands of them took to the streets in violent demonstrations on the night of 29 June 1934. Enraged, Hitler ordered the arrest of the SA leadership. Röhm was shot dead in his cell when he refused to commit suicide; Göring personally went over the lists of detainees—numbering in the thousands—and determined who else should be shot. At least 85 people were killed in the period of 30 June to 2 July, which is now known as the Night of the Long Knives. Hitler admitted in the Reichstag on 13 July that the killings had been entirely illegal, but claimed a plot had been under way to overthrow the Reich. A retroactive law was passed making the action legal. Any criticism was met with arrests.\n\nOne of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, which had been in place since the end of World War I, stated that Germany was not allowed to maintain an air force. After the 1926 signing of the Kellogg–Briand Pact, police aircraft were permitted. Göring was appointed Air Traffic Minister in May 1933. Germany began to accumulate aircraft in violation of the Treaty, and in 1935 the existence of the Luftwaffe was formally acknowledged, with Göring as Reich Aviation Minister.\n\nDuring a cabinet meeting in September 1936, Göring and Hitler announced that the German rearmament programme must be sped up. On 18 October, Hitler named Göring as Plenipotentiary of the Four Year Plan to undertake this task. Göring created a new organisation to administer the Plan and drew the ministries of labour and agriculture under its umbrella. He bypassed the economics ministry in his policy-making decisions, to the chagrin of Hjalmar Schacht, the minister in charge. Huge expenditures were made on rearmament, in spite of growing deficits. Schacht resigned on 8 December 1937, and Walther Funk took over the position, as well as control of the Reichsbank. In this way, both of these institutions were brought under Göring's control under the auspices of the Four Year Plan. In July 1937, the Reichswerke Hermann Göring was established under state ownership – though led by Göring – with the aim of boosting steel production beyond the level which private enterprise could economically provide.\n\nIn 1938, Göring was involved in the Blomberg–Fritsch Affair, which led to the resignations of the War Minister, \"Generalfeldmarschall\" Werner von Blomberg, and the army commander, General Werner von Fritsch. Göring had acted as witness at Blomberg's wedding to Margarethe Gruhn, a 26-year-old typist, on 12 January 1938. Information received from the police showed that the young bride was a prostitute. Göring felt obligated to tell Hitler, but also saw this event as an opportunity to dispose of Blomberg. Blomberg was forced to resign. Göring did not want Fritsch to be appointed to that position and thus be his superior. Several days later, Heydrich revealed a file on Fritsch that contained allegations of homosexual activity and blackmail. The charges were later proven to be false, but Fritsch had lost Hitler's trust and was forced to resign. Hitler used the dismissals as an opportunity to reshuffle the leadership of the military. Göring asked for the post of War Minister, but was turned down; he was appointed to the rank of \"Generalfeldmarschall\". Hitler took over as supreme commander of the armed forces and created subordinate posts to head the three main branches of service.\nAs minister in charge of the Four Year Plan, Göring became concerned with the lack of natural resources in Germany, and began pushing for Austria to be incorporated into the Reich. The province of Styria had rich iron ore deposits, and the country as a whole was home to many skilled labourers that would also be useful. Hitler had always been in favour of a takeover of Austria, his native country. He met on 12 February 1938 with Austrian chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg, threatening invasion if peaceful unification was not forthcoming. The Nazi party was made legal in Austria to gain a power base, and a referendum on reunification was scheduled for March. When Hitler did not approve of the wording of the plebiscite, Göring telephoned Schuschnigg and Austrian head of state Wilhelm Miklas to demand Schuschnigg's resignation, threatening invasion by German troops and civil unrest by the Austrian Nazi Party members. Schuschnigg resigned on 11 March and the plebiscite was cancelled. By 5:30 the next morning, German troops that had been massing on the border marched into Austria, meeting no resistance.\n\nAlthough Joachim von Ribbentrop had been named Foreign Minister in February 1938, Göring continued to involve himself in foreign affairs. That July, he contacted the British government with the idea that he should make an official visit to discuss Germany's intentions for Czechoslovakia. Neville Chamberlain was in favour of a meeting, and there was talk of a pact being signed between Britain and Germany. In February 1938, Göring visited Warsaw to quell rumours about the upcoming invasion of Poland. He had conversations with the Hungarian government that summer as well, discussing their potential role in an invasion of Czechoslovakia. At the Nuremberg Rally that September, Göring and other speakers denounced the Czechs as an inferior race that must be conquered. Chamberlain met with Hitler in a series of meetings that led to the signing of the Munich Agreement (29 September 1938), which turned over control of the Sudetenland to Germany. In March 1939, Göring threatened Czechoslovak president Emil Hácha with the bombing of Prague. Hácha then agreed to sign a communique accepting the German occupation of the remainder of Bohemia and Moravia.\n\nAlthough many in the party disliked him, before the war Göring enjoyed widespread personal popularity among the German public because of his perceived sociability, colour and humour. As the Nazi leader most responsible for economic matters, he presented himself as a champion of national interests over allegedly corrupt big business and the old German elite. The Nazi press was on Göring's side. Other leaders, such as Hess and Ribbentrop, were envious of his popularity. In Britain and the United States, some viewed Göring as more acceptable than the other Nazis and as a possible mediator between the western democracies and Hitler.\n\nGöring and other senior officers were concerned that Germany was not yet ready for war, but Hitler insisted on pushing ahead as soon as possible. The invasion of Poland, the opening action of World War II, began at dawn on 1 September 1939. Later in the day, speaking to the \"Reichstag\", Hitler designated Göring as his successor as Führer of all Germany, \"If anything should befall me\", with Hess as the second alternate. Big German victories followed one after the other in quick succession. With the help of the Luftwaffe, the Polish Air Force was defeated within a week. The \"Fallschirmjäger\" seized vital airfields in Norway and captured Fort Eben-Emael in Belgium. Göring's Luftwaffe played critical roles in the Battles of the Netherlands, Belgium and France in May 1940.\n\nAfter the Fall of France, Hitler awarded Göring the Grand Cross of the Iron Cross for his successful leadership. During the 1940 Field Marshal Ceremony, Hitler promoted Göring to the rank of \"Reichsmarschall des Grossdeutschen Reiches\" (Reich Marshal of the Greater German Reich), a special rank which made him senior to all field marshals in the military, including the Luftwaffe. As a result of his promotion, he was then the top ranking soldier of all Germany until the end of the war. Göring had already received the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross on 30 September 1939 as Commander in Chief of the Luftwaffe.\n\nThe UK had declared war on Germany immediately after the invasion of Poland. In July 1940, Hitler began preparations for an invasion of Britain. As part of the plan, the Royal Air Force (RAF) had to be neutralized. Bombing raids commenced on British air installations and on cities and centres of industry. Göring had by then already announced in a radio speech, \"If as much as a single enemy aircraft flies over German soil, my name is Meier!\", something that would return to haunt him, when the RAF began bombing German cities on 11 May 1940. Though he was confident the Luftwaffe could defeat the RAF within days, Göring, like Admiral Erich Raeder, commander-in-chief of the \"Kriegsmarine\" (navy), was pessimistic about the chance of success of the planned invasion (codenamed Operation Sea Lion). Göring hoped that a victory in the air would be enough to force peace without an invasion. The campaign failed, and Sea Lion was postponed indefinitely on 17 September 1940. After their defeat in the Battle of Britain, the Luftwaffe attempted to defeat Britain via strategic bombing. On 12 October 1940 Hitler cancelled Sea Lion due to the onset of winter. By the end of the year, it was clear that British morale was not being shaken by the Blitz, though the bombings continued through May 1941.\n\nIn spite of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, signed in 1939, Nazi Germany began Operation Barbarossa—the invasion of the Soviet Union—on 22 June 1941. Initially the Luftwaffe was at an advantage, destroying thousands of Soviet aircraft in the first month of fighting. Hitler and his top staff were sure that the campaign would be over by Christmas, and no provisions were made for reserves of men or equipment. But, by July, the Germans had only 1,000 planes remaining in operation, and their troop losses were over 213,000 men. The choice was made to concentrate the attack on only one part of the vast front; efforts would be directed at capturing Moscow. After the long, but successful, Battle of Smolensk, Hitler ordered Army Group Centre to halt its advance to Moscow and temporarily diverted its Panzer groups north and south to aid in the encirclement of Leningrad and Kiev. The pause provided the Red Army with an opportunity to mobilize fresh reserves; historian Russel Stolfi considers it to be one of the major factors that caused the failure of the Moscow offensive, which was resumed in October 1941 with the Battle of Moscow. Poor weather conditions, fuel shortages, a delay in building aircraft bases in Eastern Europe, and overstretched supply lines were also factors. Hitler did not give permission for even a partial retreat until mid-January 1942; by this time the losses were comparable to those of the French invasion of Russia in 1812.\n\nHitler decided that the summer 1942 campaign would be concentrated in the south; efforts would be made to capture the oilfields in the Caucasus. The Battle of Stalingrad, a major turning point of the war, began on 23 August 1942 with a bombing campaign by the Luftwaffe. The Sixth Army entered the city, but because of its location on the front line, it was still possible for the Soviets to encircle and trap it there without reinforcements or supplies. When the Sixth Army was surrounded by the end of November in Operation Uranus, Göring promised that the Luftwaffe would be able to deliver a minimum of 300 tons of supplies to the trapped men every day. On the basis of these assurances, Hitler demanded that there be no retreat; they were to fight to the last man. Though some airlifts were able to get through, the amount of supplies delivered never exceeded 120 tons per day. The remnants of the German Sixth Army—some 91,000 men out of an army of 285,000—surrendered in early February 1943; only 5,000 of these captives survived the Russian prisoner of war camps to see Germany again.\n\nMeanwhile, the strength of the US and British bomber fleets had increased. Based in Britain, they began operations against German targets. The first thousand-bomber raid was staged on Cologne on 30 May 1942. Air raids continued on targets further from England after auxiliary fuel tanks were installed on US fighter aircraft. Göring refused to believe reports that American fighters had been shot down as far east as Aachen in winter 1943. His reputation began to decline.\n\nThe American P-51 Mustang, with a combat radius of over when using underwing drop tanks, began to escort the bombers in large formations to and from the target area in early 1944. From that point onwards, the Luftwaffe began to suffer casualties in aircrews it could not sufficiently replace. By targeting oil refineries and rail communications, Allied bombers crippled the German war effort by late 1944. German civilians blamed Göring for his failure to protect the homeland. Hitler began excluding him from conferences, but continued him in his positions at the head of the Luftwaffe and as plenipotentiary of the Four Year Plan. As he lost Hitler's trust, Göring began to spend more time at his various residences. On D-Day (6 June 1944), the Luftwaffe only had some 300 fighters and a small number of bombers in the area of the landings; the Allies had a total strength of 11,000 aircraft.\n\nAs the Soviets approached Berlin, Hitler's efforts to organise the defence of the city became ever more meaningless and futile. His last birthday, celebrated at the \"Führerbunker\" in Berlin on 20 April 1945, was the occasion for leave-taking for many top Nazis, Göring included. By this time, Carinhall had been evacuated, the building destroyed, and its art treasures moved to Berchtesgaden and elsewhere. Göring arrived at his estate at Obersalzberg on 22 April, the same day that Hitler, in a lengthy diatribe against his generals, first publicly admitted that the war was lost and that he intended to remain in Berlin to the end and then commit suicide. He also stated that Göring was in a better position to negotiate a peace settlement. In 1941—a week after the start of the Soviet invasion—Hitler had issued a decree naming Göring his successor in the event of his death.\n\nOKW operations chief Alfred Jodl was present for Hitler's rant, and notified Göring's chief of staff, Karl Koller, at a meeting a few hours later. Sensing its implications, Koller immediately flew to Berchtesgaden to notify Göring, who feared being accused of treason if he tried to take power. On the other hand, if he did nothing, he feared being accused of dereliction of duty. After some hesitation, Göring reviewed his copy of the 1941 decree naming him Hitler's successor. It not only placed Göring first in the line of succession, but also stated that, if Hitler ever lost his freedom of action, Göring had complete authority to act on Hitler's behalf as his deputy. After conferring with Koller and Hans Lammers, the state secretary of the Reich Chancellery, Göring concluded that, by remaining in Berlin to face certain death, Hitler had incapacitated himself from governing. All agreed that Göring therefore had a clear duty to take power in Hitler's stead. He was also motivated by fears that his rival, Martin Bormann, would seize power upon Hitler's death and would have him killed as a traitor. With this in mind, Göring sent a carefully worded telegram asking Hitler for permission to take over as the leader of Germany, stressing that he would be acting as Hitler's deputy. He added that, if Hitler did not reply by 22:00 that night (23 April), he would assume that Hitler had indeed lost his freedom of action, and would assume leadership of the Reich.\n\nThe telegram was intercepted by Bormann, who convinced Hitler that Göring was a traitor and that the telegram was a demand to resign or be overthrown. Hitler sent a reply to Göringprepared with Bormann's helpinforming him that, unless he resigned immediately, he would be executed for high treason. Soon afterward, Hitler removed Göring from all of his offices and ordered Göring, his staff, and Lammers placed under house arrest at Obersalzberg. Bormann made an announcement over the radio that Göring had resigned for health reasons.\n\nBy 26 April, the complex at Obersalzberg was under attack by the Allies, so Göring was moved to his castle at Mauterndorf. In his last will and testament, Hitler expelled Göring from the party and formally rescinded the decree making him his successor. He then appointed Karl Dönitz, the Navy's commander-in-chief, as president of the Reich and commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Hitler and his wife, Eva Braun, committed suicide on 30 April 1945, a few hours after a hastily arranged wedding. Göring was freed on 5 May by a passing Luftwaffe unit, and he made his way to the US lines in hopes of surrendering to them rather than to the Soviets. He was taken into custody near Radstadt on 6 May by elements of the 36th Infantry Division of the US Army. This move likely saved Göring's life; Bormann had ordered him executed if Berlin had fallen.\n\nGöring was flown to Camp Ashcan, a temporary prisoner-of-war camp housed in the Palace Hotel at Mondorf-les-Bains, Luxembourg. Here he was weaned off dihydrocodeine (a mild morphine derivative)—he had been taking the equivalent of three or four grains (260 to 320 mg) of morphine a day—and was put on a strict diet; he lost . His IQ was tested while in custody and found to be 138. Top Nazi officials were transferred in September to Nuremberg, which was to be the location of a series of military tribunals beginning in November.\n\nGöring was the second-highest-ranking Nazi official tried at Nuremberg, behind Reich President (former Admiral) Karl Dönitz. The prosecution levelled an indictment of four charges, including a charge of conspiracy; waging a war of aggression; war crimes, including the plundering and removal to Germany of works of art and other property; and crimes against humanity, including the disappearance of political and other opponents under the \"Nacht und Nebel\" (Night and Fog) decree; the torture and ill-treatment of prisoners of war; and the murder and enslavement of civilians, including what was at the time estimated to be 5,700,000 Jews. Not permitted to present a lengthy statement, Göring declared himself to be \"in the sense of the indictment not guilty\". \n\nThe trial lasted 218 days; the prosecution presented their case from November through March, and Göring's defencethe first to be presentedlasted from 8 to 22 March. The sentences were read out on 30 September 1946. Göring, forced to remain silent while seated in the dock, communicated his opinions about the proceedings using gestures, shaking his head, or laughing. He constantly took notes and whispered with the other defendants, and tried to control the erratic behaviour of Hess, who was seated beside him. During breaks in the proceedings, Göring tried to dominate the other defendants, and he was eventually placed in solitary confinement when he attempted to influence their testimony. Göring told US psychiatrist Leon Goldensohn that the court was \"stupid\" to try \"little fellows\" like Funk and Kaltenbrunner instead of letting Göring take all the blame on himself. He also claimed that he had never heard of most of the other defendants before the trial.\n\nCaptain Gustave Gilbert, a German-speaking US intelligence officer and psychologist, interviewed Göring and the others in prison during the trial. Gilbert kept a journal, which he later published as \"Nuremberg Diary\". Here he describes Göring on the evening of 18 April 1946, as the trials were halted for a three-day Easter recess:\n\nOn several occasions over the course of the trial, the prosecution showed films of the concentration camps and other atrocities. Everyone present, including Göring, found the contents of the films shocking; he said that the films must have been faked. Witnesses, including Paul Koerner and Erhard Milch, tried to portray Göring as a peaceful moderate. Milch stated it had been impossible to oppose Hitler or disobey his orders; to do so would likely have meant death for oneself and one's family. When testifying on his own behalf, Göring emphasised his loyalty to Hitler, and claimed to know nothing about what had happened in the concentration camps, which were under Himmler's control. He gave evasive, convoluted answers to direct questions and had plausible excuses for all his actions during the war. He used the witness stand as a venue to expound at great length on his own role in the Reich, attempting to present himself as a peacemaker and diplomat before the outbreak of the war. During cross-examination, chief prosecutor Robert H. Jackson read out the minutes of a meeting that had been held shortly after Kristallnacht, a major pogrom in November 1938. At the meeting, Göring had plotted to confiscate Jewish property in the wake of the pogrom. Later, David Maxwell-Fyfe proved it was impossible for Göring not to have known about the Stalag Luft III murdersthe shooting of fifty airmen who had been recaptured after escaping from Stalag Luft IIIin time to have prevented the killings. He also presented clear evidence that Göring knew about the extermination of the Hungarian Jews.\n\nGöring was found guilty on all four counts and was sentenced to death by hanging. The judgment stated:\n\nGöring made an appeal asking to be shot as a soldier instead of hanged as a common criminal, but the court refused. Defying the sentence imposed by his captors, he committed suicide with a potassium cyanide capsule the night before he was to be hanged.\n\nOne theory as to how Göring obtained the poison holds that US Army Lieutenant Jack G. Wheelis, who was stationed at the Nuremberg Trials, retrieved the capsules from their hiding place among Göring's personal effects that had been confiscated by the Army and handed them over to the prisoner, after being bribed by Göring, who gave him his gold watch, pen, and cigarette case. In 2005, former US Army Private Herbert Lee Stivers, who served in the 1st Infantry Division's 26th Infantry Regimentthe honour guard for the Nuremberg Trialsclaimed he gave Göring \"medicine\" hidden inside a fountain pen that a German woman had asked him to smuggle into the prison. Stivers later said that he did not know what was in the pill until after Göring's suicide.\n\nGöring's body, as with those of the men who were executed, was displayed at the execution ground for the witnesses of the executions. The bodies were cremated at Ostfriedhof, Munich, and the ashes were scattered in the Isar River.\n\nGöring's name is closely associated with the Nazi plunder of Jewish property. His name appears 135 times on the OSS Art Looting Investigation Unit (ALIU) Red Flag Names List compiled by US Army intelligence in 1945-6 and declassified in 1997.\n\nThe confiscation of Jewish property gave Göring the opportunity to amass a personal fortune. Some properties he seized himself or acquired for a nominal price. In other cases, he collected bribes for allowing others to steal Jewish property. He took kickbacks from industrialists for favourable decisions as Four Year Plan director, and money for supplying arms to the Spanish Republicans in the Spanish Civil War via Pyrkal in Greece (although Germany was supporting Franco and the Nationalists).\n\nGöring was appointed Reich Master of the Hunt in 1933 and Master of the German Forests in 1934. He instituted reforms to the forestry laws and acted to protect endangered species. Around this time he became interested in Schorfheide Forest, where he set aside as a state park, which is still extant. There he built an elaborate hunting lodge, Carinhall, in memory of his first wife, Carin. By 1934, her body had been transported to the site and placed in a vault on the estate. The main lodge had a large art gallery where Göring displayed works that had been plundered from private collections and museums around Europe from 1939 onward. Göring worked closely with the \"Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg\" (Reichsleiter Rosenberg Taskforce), an organisation tasked with the looting of artwork and cultural material from Jewish collections, libraries, and museums throughout Europe. Headed by Alfred Rosenberg, the task force set up a collection centre and headquarters in Paris. Some 26,000 railroad cars full of art treasures, furniture, and other looted items were sent to Germany from France alone. Göring repeatedly visited the Paris headquarters to review the incoming stolen goods and to select items to be sent on a special train to Carinhall and his other homes. The estimated value of his collection—numbering some 1,500 pieces—was $200 million.\n\nGöring was known for his extravagant tastes and garish clothing. He had various special uniforms made for the many posts he held; his \"Reichsmarschall\" uniform included a jewel-encrusted baton. Hans-Ulrich Rudel, the top \"Stuka\" pilot of the war, recalled twice meeting Göring dressed in outlandish costumes: first, a medieval hunting costume, practicing archery with his doctor; and second, dressed in a red toga fastened with a golden clasp, smoking an unusually large pipe. Italian Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano once noted Göring wearing a fur coat that looked like what \"a high grade prostitute wears to the opera.\" He threw lavish housewarming parties each time a round of construction was completed at Carinhall, and changed costumes several times throughout the evenings.\n\nGöring was noted for his patronage of music, especially opera. He entertained frequently and sumptuously, and hosted elaborate birthday parties for himself. Armaments minister Albert Speer recalled that guests brought expensive gifts such as gold bars, Dutch cigars, and valuable artwork. For his birthday in 1944, Speer gave Göring an oversize marble bust of Hitler. As a member of the Prussian Council of State, Speer was required to donate a considerable portion of his salary towards the Council's birthday gift to Göring without even being asked. \"Generalfeldmarschall\" Erhard Milch told Speer that similar donations were required out of the Air Ministry's general fund. For his birthday in 1940, Italian Foreign Minister Count Ciano decorated Göring with the coveted Collar of Annunziata. The award reduced him to tears.\n\nThe design of the \"Reichsmarschall\" standard, on a light blue field, featured a gold German eagle grasping a wreath surmounted by two batons overlaid with a swastika. The reverse side of the flag had the \"Großkreuz des Eisernen Kreuzes\" (\"Grand Cross of the Iron Cross\") surrounded by a wreath between four Luftwaffe eagles. The flag was carried by a personal standard-bearer at all public occasions.\n\nThough he liked to be called \"der Eiserne\" (the Iron Man), the once dashing and muscular fighter pilot had become corpulent. He was one of the few Nazi leaders who did not take offence at hearing jokes about himself, \"no matter how rude\", taking them as a sign of popularity. Germans joked about his ego, saying that he would wear an admiral's uniform with rubber medals to take a bath, and his obesity, joking that \"he sits down on his stomach\". One joke claimed that he had sent a wire to Hitler after his visit to the Vatican: \"Mission accomplished. Pope unfrocked. Tiara and pontifical vestments are a perfect fit.\"\n\nJoseph Goebbels and Himmler were far more antisemitic than Göring, who mainly adopted that attitude because party politics required him to do so. His deputy, Erhard Milch, had a Jewish parent. But Göring supported the Nuremberg Laws of 1935, and later initiated economic measures unfavourable to Jews. He required the registration of all Jewish property as part of the Four Year Plan, and at a meeting held after Kristallnacht was livid that the financial burden for the Jewish losses would have to be made good by German-owned insurance companies. He proposed that the Jews be fined one billion marks.\n\nAt the same meeting, options for the disposition of the Jews and their property were discussed. Jews would be segregated into ghettos or encouraged to emigrate, and their property would be seized in a programme of Aryanization. Compensation for seized property would be low, if any was given at all. Detailed minutes of this meeting and other documents were read out at the Nuremberg trial, proving his knowledge of and complicity with the persecution of the Jews. He told Gilbert that he would never have supported the anti-Jewish measures if he had known what was going to happen. \"I only thought we would eliminate Jews from positions in big business and government\", he claimed.\n\nIn July 1941, Göring issued a memo to Reinhard Heydrich ordering him to organise the practical details of the Final Solution to the \"Jewish Question\". By the time that this letter was written, many Jews and others had already been killed in Poland, Russia, and elsewhere. At the Wannsee Conference, held six months later, Heydrich formally announced that genocide of the Jews was now official Reich policy. Göring did not attend the conference, but he was present at other meetings where the number of people killed was discussed.\n\nGöring directed anti-partisan operations by Luftwaffe security battalions in the Białowieża Forest between 1942 and 1944 that resulted in the murder of thousands of Jews and Polish civilians.\n\nGöring's younger brother Albert despised Nazism, and offered active resistance to the regime, including helping prisoners escape from concentration camps. He was arrested four times, but Hermann secured his release each time. Hermann's daughter Edda told \"The Guardian\" that Albert \"could certainly help people in need himself financially and with his personal influence, but as soon as it was necessary to involve higher authority or officials, then he had to have the support of my father, which he did get.\"\n\n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "32989337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32989337", "title": "Indian Slavery Act, 1843", "text": "Indian Slavery Act, 1843\n\nThe Indian Slavery Act, 1843, also known as Act V of 1843, was an act passed in British India under East India Company rule, which outlawed many economical transactions associated with slavery.\n\nThe act states how the sale of any person as a slave was banned, and anyone buying or selling slaves would be booked under the Indian Penal Code with an offence carrying strict punishment.\n\nSome East India Company officials opposed the act, citing Hindu and Muslim customs and maintaining the fact that the act would be seen as interference in traditional social structures. Evangelical politicians who had led successful slavery abolition campaigns in the West Indies prevailed and the Act was implemented.\n\nHistorians are divided on whether the Act was able to exclude caste and slavery. The condition of workers in tea plantations in Tamil Nadu and Assam were compared to that of African, West Indian counterparts who worked in sugar plantations. Lack of alternatives meant tea plantation workers had become indentured labourers despite the Act, which historian Amalendu Guha maintained was a new form of slavery.\n\nA 1996 Human Rights Watch report refers to Manjari Dingwaney's book, \"Unredeemed Promises: The Law and Servitude\", and states -\nVarious forms of debt bondage co-existed with formal slavery, and while the British abolished slavery legislatively through the Anti-Slavery Act of 1843, large numbers of former slaves traded their status for that of perpetually bonded servitude. This was in part due to the fact that the British did not abolish debt-bondage; instead, they regulated it.\n\nACT No. V. OF 1843\nAn Act for declaring and amending the Law regarding the condition of Slavery within the Territories of the East India Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "35037300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35037300", "title": "International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Co-operation", "text": "International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Co-operation\n\nInternational Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Co-operation (OPRC) is an international maritime convention establishing measures for dealing with marine oil pollution incidents nationally and in co-operation with other countries. As of November 2018, there are 112 state parties to the convention.\n\nOPRC Convention was drafted within the framework of the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and adopted in 1990 entering into force in 1995. In 2000 a Protocol to the Convention relating to hazardous and noxious substances was adopted.\n\nIn accordance with this Convention and its Annex, States-Parties to the 1990 Convention undertake, individually or jointly, to take all appropriate measures to prepare for and respond to oil pollution incidents.\n\nThe Convention applies to:\n\nThe Convention does not apply to warships, naval auxiliary or other ships owned or operated by a State and used only on government non-commercial service. However, Parties to the Convention ensure by the adoption of appropriate measures that such ships act in a manner consistent with the Convention.\n\nShips are required to carry a shipboard oil pollution emergency plan, in accordance with the provisions adopted by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) for this purpose. These plans are subject, while in a port or at an offshore terminal under the jurisdiction of a Party, to inspection by officers duly authorized by that Party.\n\nOperators of offshore units under the jurisdiction of the Parties are required to have oil pollution emergency plans, which are co-ordinated with the national system for responding to oil pollution incidents, approved in accordance with procedures established by the competent national authority.\n\nAuthorities or operators in charge of sea ports and oil handling facilities under the jurisdiction of Parties are also required to have oil pollution emergency plans or similar arrangements which are co-ordinated with the national oil pollution response system).\n\nIn accordance with the Convention masters or other persons having charge of ships flying the flag of a Party and persons having charge of offshore units under the jurisdiction of a Party are required to report without delay any event on their ship or offshore unit involving a discharge or probable discharge of oil:\n(i) in the case of a ship, to the nearest coastal State;\n\n(ii) in the case of an offshore unit, to the coastal State to whose jurisdiction the unit is subject.\nMasters or other persons having charge of ships flying the flag of a party and persons having charge of offshore units under the jurisdiction of a Party are also required to report without delay in a similar way any observed event at sea involving a discharge of oil or the presence of oil.\n\nPersons having charge of sea ports and oil handling facilities under the jurisdiction of a Party are required to report without delay any event involving a discharge or probable discharge of oil or the presence of oil to the competent national authority.\n\nParties to the Convention are required to instruct its maritime inspection vessels or aircraft and other appropriate services or officials to report without delay any observed event at sea or at a sea port or oil handling facility involving a discharge of oil or the presence of oil to the competent national authority or to the nearest coastal State; and\nrequest the pilots of civil aircraft to report without delay any observed event at sea involving a discharge of oil or the presence of oil to the nearest coastal State).\n\nEach Party is under obligation to establish a national system for responding promptly and effectively to oil pollution incidents. Such system comprises:\n\nAlso, the system includes a national contingency plan for preparedness and response outlining the organizational relationship of the various involved bodies, public or private, taking into account guidelines developed by the IMO.\n\nIn addition, each Party, either individually or through bilateral or multilateral co-operation and in co-operation with the oil and shipping industries, port authorities and other relevant entities, has to establish: \n\nParties are required to co-operate and provide advisory services, technical support and equipment for the purpose of responding to an oil pollution incident upon the request of any Party affected or likely to be affected by such incident. The financing of the costs for such assistance is based on the provisions set out in the Annex to the Convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20528687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20528687", "title": "Iranian labor law", "text": "Iranian labor law\n\nIranian labor law describes the rules of employment in Iran. As a still developing country, with an authoritarian government, Iran is considerably behind by international standards. It has failed to ratify the two basic Conventions of the International Labour Organization on freedom of association and collective bargaining, and one on abolition of child labor. Countries such as the US and India have also failed to ratify many of these Conventions and a mere 14 other Conventions, only 2 since the Islamic Revolution.\n\nThe basic sources of Iranian labor law are,\n\n\nThe first constitution of Iran, passed in 1906, granted basic rights to the people of Persia through articles eight to twenty five, establishing equality before the law for everyone, and the right to form and join societies (anjumans) and associations (ijtimá'át). The Parliament (Majlis) and the Senate waited 16 years to pass the Civic Servants Employment Act of 1922. It gave protection to laborers and Civic servants. In 1923, the governor of Sistan and Baluchestan ordered a decree in nine articles to protect carpet makers’ rights, including working hours, leaves, and minimum age. It was the first national document of labor rights. In 1928, Parliament passed the Civil Law (Ghanon-e Madanei) which addressed employment contracts. This law divides the employer and employee relations into two categories by benchmarking the French Law. Independent contractors (e.g. carpenters, doctors, lawyers, and plumbers) who control their own work are accountable for their profit and lost. Next, servants who are being paid by an employer to perform specific tasks, but do not have full control of their work and act upon the employer’s instructions and orders.\n\nIn 1936, the cabinet issued regulations on minimum hygiene conditions in factories, which was the first attempt to regulate employer-employee relationships. On May 18, 1946, the Council of Ministers passed the labor bill. The first labor minister was appointed that same year which improved the systematization of labor relations and personnel management. Yet, the working conditions, despite the legislation, were entirely at the whim of enterprise owners because the laws were not enforced and the Labor Ministry was weak. Employers could do virtually as they wished with no consequences and they barred formation of labor unions.\n\nIn 1951, a committee was appointed by the ministry of labor to translate various countries labor laws and the international ILO Conventions to Persian in order to do a comparative study and draft a labor law. This effort did not lead to proposal of labor law. Then, from 1952 to 1957, various committees established by the ministry of labor and foreign consultants including a Belgian consultant and general secretary of the Middle East labor institute were invited to finalize the draft of labor law, which finally in 1959 voted and passed by the Parliament \"Majils\". This law was practiced until 1990.\nThe next phase of labor legislation began with the Shah’s \"White Revolution\" \"Enghlab Sefied\" in 1962. It provided generous welfare and social improvements, such as profit sharing, employee stock ownership plans, company housing, minimum wage, and an improved Social Security Act. All were paid for with revenue from high oil prices. Nevertheless, many private sector owners opposed the new initiatives that infringed on their power. New personnel practices were introduced, including payroll administration with time management, job descriptions, job classifications and evaluations, and organizational hierarchies, mainly in large companies and government-run industries. In the 1960s, progressive private sector entrepreneurs, such as the Ladjevardi family in the Behshar Industrial group, introduced job classifications; personnel policies and procedures, and automated payroll systems following the recommendations of the Iranian National Oil Company’s foreign advisors.\n\nFollowing the Islamic revolution and the new constitution, this enchanted many with idealistic promises. The new constitution addressed work and labor topics in eleven areas through various articles summarized as the following:\n\n\nA new era of labor legislation, shaped after the new Islamic constitution, recognized progress had occurred following the establishment of the first Islamic Workers Council or (Shora-e Islami Karagaran). This provided workers rights similar to those of European workers, but under the umbrella of Islam.\n\nDuring the first two decades of the revolution, the Workers Council influenced many of the personnel management tasks including recruitments, selection, promotion, job evaluation, salary structure, productivity bonus, health and safety and many more tasks (even providing employees with a daily milk and food ration). Added to these were establishing and operating factory grocery stores and housing cooperatives. Ironically, many of these tasks became official ink of the 1990 Islamic Republic of Iran Labor law.\n\nThe end of the Iran-Iraq war marked the start of economic liberation, as well as, a gain of the reformists in Parliament. In this period, a new private sector emerged, challenging the utopian labor laws and regulations. With this, the 1990 labor law was pro-labor and expensive to administer. Management had to seat labor representatives on the company’s board of directors, which was unprecedented in the traditional management style of Iranian private sector, in addition to enforcement many welfare and mandatory benefit.\n\nThe first dent in the labor law came about with the introduction of temporary employment contracts that allowed employers to hire employees under a one-year contract with the ability to be reissued year after year after a settlement of the annual \"end of services\" benefit. The Ministry of Labor issued a communiqué in March 1994 stating that employment under the \"fixed terms\" contracts was legal.\n\nThe government created an ambitious development plan aimed at liberalizing and boosting the economy overnight. The plan contributed in creating a passive labor law. Then, in 2004, the reformists in the Sixth Parliament and the conservatives in the Guardian Council succeeded in reaching an agreement to amend the Labor Law to exempt firms with five or fewer workers from some of its provisions. This provided small entrepreneurs with more freedom in their employment practices.\n\nFinally, in 2006, in response to growing pressures from the private sector for labor law reform, the Ministry of Labor drafted an amendment to deconstruct the \"free market\". A new law is under consideration based on these amendments.\n\nThere is a minimum national wage applicable to each sector of activity fixed by the Supreme Labor Council which is revised annually. In 2010 the minimum wage, determined by the Supreme Labor Council, was about US$303 per month (US$3,636 per year). Membership in the social security system for all employees is compulsory. The national poverty line for Tehran in the year ending March 20, 2008 was $9,612 per year and the national average was $4,932.\n\nAlthough Iranian workers have, in theory, a right to form labor unions, there is, in actuality, no union system in the country. Workers are represented ostensibly by the Workers' House, a state-sponsored institution that nevertheless attempts to challenge some state policies. Guild unions operate locally in most areas but are limited largely to issuing credentials and licenses. The right of workers to strike is generally not respected by the state, and since 1979 strikes have often been met by police action.\n\nThe comprehensive Labor Law covers all labor relations in Iran, including hiring of local and foreign staff. The Labor Law provides a very broad and inclusive definition of the individuals it covers, and written, oral, temporary and indefinite employment contracts are all recognized.\n\nThe Iranian Labor Law is very employee-friendly and makes it extremely difficult to lay off staff. Employing personnel on consecutive six-month contracts is illegal, as is dismissing staff without proof of a serious offense. Labor disputes are settled by a special labor council, which usually rules in favor of the employee.\n\nThe Labor Law provides the minimum standards an employer must adhere to when forming an employment relationship. The minimum age for workers in Iran is 15 years, but large sectors of the economy (including small businesses, agricultural concerns, and family-owned enterprises) are exempted.\n\nTo have a valid contract concluded under the Law, the following provisions must be included:\n\n\nThe employer may require the employee to be subject to a probationary period. However, the probation time may not exceed one month for unskilled workers and three months for skilled and professional workers. During the probation period, either party may immediately terminate the employment relationship without cause or payment of severance pay. The only caveat being that if the employer terminates the relationship, he must pay the employee for the entire duration of the probation period.\n\nThe fact that the employment contract can be suspended by an employee under certain conditions presents yet another challenge to employers. What this allows is suspension of the employment contract under the following conditions:\n\n\nOnce the conditions giving rise to the suspension of the contract are removed, the employer must allow for return of the employee to work. If the position is filled or eliminated, the employer is obligated to provide a similar position for the employee. Failure to do the above is considered wrongful discharge and subject to legal action.\n\nThe Law allows for termination of the employment contract only under the following instances:\n\n\nThe employer is bound to pay benefits under all of the above scenarios according to the years of service.\n\nAn employee may only be dismissed upon approval of the Islamic Labor Council or the Labor Discretionary Board. Grounds for dismissal include an employee's neglect in carrying out his/her duties or violation of disciplinary by-laws of the employer. The employer must have provided written prior notice of the employee's violations. If the board is not convinced that the employee's dismissal is justified, the employer must reinstate the employee. Once an employee is dismissed, the employer is obligated to provide the legal severance package.\n\nThe Law mandates the following compensation for terminated, disabled and suspended employee:\n\n\nThe workweek in Iran is based on a 44-hour week. Typically, employees work from Saturday to Wednesday (8 hours per day) and half a day on Thursday (4 hours). Any hours worked beyond these will entitle the employee to overtime. The Law mandates a payment of 40% above the hourly wage to employees for any accrued overtime. The employee must consent to overtime work.\n\nEmployees are entitled to leave on all official state holidays (approximately 22 days a year) and \"Fridays\". Any employee working during these holidays will be entitled to overtime pay. Additionally, employees are entitled to one-month holiday per annum. The annual leave for those employees engaged in hard and hazardous employment shall be five weeks per annum. Employees are entitled to save up to 9 days of their annual leave.\n\nIn case of termination, disability or redundancies, employees must be compensated for any accrued leave. Finally, employees are entitled to 3 days of paid vacation for marriage or death of a spouse, father, mother or child.\n\nWomen employees are entitled to 90 days of maternity leave. The employee's salary during maternity leave will be paid according to the provisions of the Social Security Act. Maternity leave must be considered part of an employee's service record. Employers must provide returning employees with the same position.\n\nThe Law forbids employment of foreign nationals without a proper work permit. Diplomats, United Nations employees and foreign press reporters are exempt from this requirement. A work permit to a foreign national will be issued only if the following conditions are met:\n\n\nWork permits will be issued, renewed or extended for a maximum period of one year. Moreover, no exit visa will be granted to the foreign national unless the national has paid all due taxes, duties, etc. (More info: Employment of Foreign Nationals in Iran)\n\nA new law provides that workshops with less than five employees will not be subject to the labor laws.\n\nThe Iranian constitution entitles Iranians to basic health care, and most receive subsidized prescription drugs and vaccination programs. An extensive network of public clinics offers basic care at low cost, and general and specialty hospitals operated by the Ministry of Health provide higher levels of care. In most large cities, well-to-do persons use private clinics and hospitals that charge high fees. Specialized medical facilities are concentrated in urban areas, but rural communities have relatively good access to primary care physicians at clinics in villages, where the government-sponsored primary health care system has raised the level of health education and prenatal care since the late 1990s.\n\nIran has a comprehensive social protection system with some 28 social insurance, social assistance, and disaster relief programs benefiting large segments of the population. These programs include training and job-search assistance, health and unemployment insurance, disability, old-age and survivorship pensions, and in kind- or in-kind transfers including subsidies (e.g., housing, food, energy), rehabilitation and other social services (e.g. long-term care services for the elderly), and even marriage and burial assistance.\n\nDespite significant achievements in human development and poverty reduction, serious challenges to growth call for reform. While labor-market pressures continue to increase because of demographic dynamics and increased participation of women in the labor force, Iran’s economy is still unable to generate enough needed jobs to absorb the new flows into the labor market and at the same time reduce unemployment extensively.\n\nIn addition to income tax, employers are required to contribute to the State Social Security Fund and the Employment Fund. For social security and unemployment insurance, the employee pays 7% of salary (between the ages of 18-65), employer (20 to 23%), the State (3%). Independent workers pay 12-18%, depending on the type of coverage sought. In 2003 the minimum standard pension was 50 percent of the worker’s earnings but not less than the amount of the minimum wage.\n\nThe social security makes it possible to ensure the employees against unemployment, the disease, old age (retirement pension), the occupational accidents. Iran did not legislate in favour of a universal social protection, but in 1996, the Center of the statistics of Iran estimates that more than 73% of the Iranian population is covered by a Social Security. The Organization of the social security, managed by the Ministry of social protection, delivers also family benefits and of maternity under certain conditions. Iran spent 22.5 percent of its 2003 national budget on social welfare programs. More than 50 percent of that amount covered pensions.\n\nWelfare programs for the needy are managed by more than 30 individual public agencies and semi-state organizations called Bonyad, as well as by several private non-governmental organizations. In 2003 the government began to consolidate its welfare organizations in an effort to eliminate redundancy and inefficiency.\n\n\nby Author, Teheran, Iran: Ketab Kaneh Kanj Danesh\n\n"}
{"id": "59564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59564", "title": "Judiciary", "text": "Judiciary\n\nThe judiciary (also known as the judicial system or the court system) is the system of courts that interprets and applies the law in the name of the state. The judiciary can also be thought of as the mechanism for the resolution of disputes. Under the doctrine of the separation of powers, the judiciary generally does not make statutory law (which is the responsibility of the legislature) or enforce law (which is the responsibility of the executive), but rather interprets law and applies it to the facts of each case. However, in some countries the judiciary does make common law, setting precedent for other courts to follow. This branch of the state is often tasked with ensuring equal justice under law.\n\nIn many jurisdictions the judicial branch has the power to change laws through the process of judicial review. Courts with judicial review power may annul the laws and rules of the state when it finds them incompatible with a higher norm, such as primary legislation, the provisions of the constitution or international law. Judges constitute a critical force for interpretation and implementation of a constitution, thus \"de facto\" in common law countries creating the body of constitutional law. For a people to establish and keep the 'Rule of Law' as the operative norm in social constructs great care must be taken in the election or appointment of unbiased and thoughtful legal scholars whose loyalty to an oath of office is without reproach. If law is to govern and find acceptance generally courts must exercise fidelity to justice which means affording those subject to its jurisdictional scope the greatest presumption of inherent cultural relevance within this framework. \n\nIn the US during recent decades the judiciary became active in economic issues related with economic rights established by constitution because \"economics may provide insight into questions that bear on the proper legal interpretation\". Since many countries with transitional political and economic systems continue treating their constitutions as abstract legal documents disengaged from the economic policy of the state, practice of judicial review of economic acts of executive and legislative branches have begun to grow.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Supreme Court of India for almost a decade had been encouraging public interest litigation on behalf of the poor and oppressed by using a very broad interpretation of several articles of the Indian Constitution. Budget of the judiciary in many transitional and developing countries is almost completely controlled by the executive. This undermines the separation of powers, as it creates a critical financial dependence of the judiciary. The proper national wealth distribution including the government spending on the judiciary is subject of the constitutional economics.\nIt is important to distinguish between the two methods of corruption of the judiciary: the state (through budget planning and various privileges), and the private.\n\nThe term \"judiciary\" is also used to refer collectively to the personnel, such as judges, magistrates and other adjudicators, who form the core of a judiciary (sometimes referred to as a \"bench\"), as well as the staffs who keep the system running smoothly. In some countries and jurisdictions, judiciary branch is expanded to include additional public legal professionals and institutions such as prosecutors, state lawyers, ombudsmen, public notaries, judicial police service and legal aid officers. These institutions are sometimes governed by the same judicial administration that governs courts, and in some cases the administration of the judicial branch is also the administering authority for private legal professions such as lawyers and private \"notary\" offices.\n\nAfter the French Revolution, lawmakers stopped interpretation of law by judges, and the legislature was the only body permitted to interpret the law; this prohibition was later overturned by the Napoleonic Code.\n\nIn civil law juridictors at present, judges interpret the law to about the same extent as in common law jurisdictions – however it is different from the common law tradition which directly recognizes the limited power to make law. For instance, in France, the \"jurisprudence constante\" of the Court of Cassation or the Council of State is equivalent in practice with case law. However, the Louisiana Supreme Court notes the principal difference between the two legal doctrines: a single court decision can provide sufficient foundation for the common law doctrine of \"stare decisis\", however, \"a series of adjudicated cases, all in accord, form the basis for \"jurisprudence constante\".\" Moreover, the Louisiana Court of Appeals has explicitly noted that \"jurisprudence constante\" is merely a secondary source of law, which cannot be authoritative and does not rise to the level of \"stare decisis.\"\n\n\nJapan's process for selecting judges is longer and more stringent than the process in the United States and in Mexico. Assistant judges are appointed from those who have completed their training at the Legal Training and Research Institute located in Wako. Once appointed, assistant judges still may not qualify to sit alone until they have served for five years, and have been appointed by the Supreme Court of Japan. Judges require ten years of experience in practical affairs, as a public prosecutor or practicing attorney. In the Japanese judicial branch there is the Supreme Court, eight high courts, fifty district courts, fifty family courts, and 438 summary courts.\n\nJustices of the Mexican Supreme Court are appointed by the President of Mexico, and then are approved by the Mexican Senate to serve for a life term. Other justices are appointed by the Supreme Court and serve for six years. Federal courts consist of the 21 magistrates of the Supreme Court, 32 circuit tribunals and 98 district courts. The Supreme Court of Mexico is located in Mexico City. Supreme Court Judges must be of ages 35 to 65 and hold a law degree during the five years preceding their nomination.\n\nUnited States Supreme Court justices are appointed by the President of the United States and approved by the United States Senate. The Supreme Court justices serve for a life term or until retirement. The Supreme Court is located in Washington, D.C. The United States federal court system consists of 94 federal judicial districts. The 94 districts are then divided into twelve regional circuits. The United States has five different types of courts that are considered subordinate to the Supreme Court: United States bankruptcy courts, United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, United States Court of International Trade, United States courts of appeals, and United States district courts.\n\nImmigration courts are not part of the judicial branch; immigration judges are employees of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, part of the United States Department of Justice in the executive branch.\n\n"}
{"id": "11852565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11852565", "title": "Legal aspects of file sharing", "text": "Legal aspects of file sharing\n\nFile sharing is the practice of distributing or providing access to digital media, such as computer programs, multimedia (audio, images and video), documents or electronic books. It involves various legal aspects as it is often used to exchange intellectual property that is subject to copyright law or licensing.\n\nFile hosting services may be used as a means to distribute or share files without consent of the copyright owner. In such cases one individual uploads a file to a file hosting service, which others may download. Legal history is documented in case law.\n\nFor example in the case of Swiss-German file hosting service RapidShare, in 2010 the US government's congressional international anti-piracy caucus declared the site a \"notorious illegal site\", claiming that the site was \"overwhelmingly used for the global exchange of illegal movies, music and other copyrighted works\". But in the legal case \"Atari Europe S.A.S.U. v. Rapidshare AG\" in Germany (Legal case: OLG Düsseldorf, Judgement of 22 March 2010, Az I-20 U 166/09 dated 22 March 2010) the Düsseldorf higher regional court examined claims related to alleged infringing activity and reached the conclusion on appeal that \"most people utilize RapidShare for legal use cases\" and that to assume otherwise was equivalent to inviting \"a general suspicion against shared hosting services and their users which is not justified\". The court also observed that the site removes copyrighted material when asked, does not provide search facilities for illegal material, noted previous cases siding with RapidShare, and after analysis the court concluded that the plaintiff's proposals for more strictly preventing sharing of copyrighted material – submitted as examples of anti-file sharing measures RapidShare might have adopted – were found to be \"unreasonable or pointless\".\n\nIn January 2012 the United States Department of Justice seized and shut down the file hosting site Megaupload.com and commenced criminal cases against its owners and others. Their indictment concluded that Megaupload differed from other online file storage businesses, suggesting a number of design features of its operating model as being evidence showing a criminal intent and venture.\n\nA secondary liability case in Australia, under Australian law, was \"Universal Music Australia Pty Ltd v Sharman License Holdings Ltd\" [2005] FCA 1242 (5 September 2005). In that case, the Court determined that the Kazaa file sharing system had \"authorized\" copyright infringement. The claim for damages was subsequently settled out of court.\n\nIn the case of AFACT v iiNet which was fought out in the Federal Court, an internet service provider was found not to be liable for the copyright infringement of its users. The case did not, however, create a clear precedent that Australian ISPs could never be held liable for the copyright infringement of their users by virtue of providing an internet connection. AFACT and other major Australian copyright holders have stated their intention to appeal the case, or pursue the matter by lobbying the government to change the Australian law.\n\nThe legality of file sharing in Canada is disputed, although in practice, file sharing is tolerated. In addition, in the 2004 case of BMG Canada Inc. v. John Doe, the court decided that both downloading music and putting it in a shared folder available to other people online were legal in Canada. It has led to harsh criticism from organizations like International Federation of the Phonographic Industry:\nThe People's Republic of China is known for having one of the most comprehensive and extensive approaches to observing web activity and censoring information in the world. Popular social networking sites such as Twitter and Facebook cannot be accessed via direct connection by its citizens. Mainland China requires sites that share video files to have permits and be controlled by the state or owned by state. These permits last for three years and will need renewal after that time period. Web sites that violate any rules will be subject to a 5-year ban from providing videos online. One of the country's most used file sharing programs, BTChina got shut down in December 2009. It was shut down by the State Administration of Radio Film and Television for not obtaining a license to legally distribute media such as audio and video files. Alexa, a company that monitors web traffic, claims that BTChina had 80,000 daily users. Being one of the primary file sharing websites for Chinese citizens, this shutdown affected the lives of many internet users in China. China has an online population of 222.4 million people and 65.8% are said to participate in some form of file-sharing on websites.\n\nOn 5 June 2014, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) ruled that making temporary copies on the user's screen or in the user's cache is not, in itself, illegal. The ruling relates to the British Meltwater case settled on that day.\n\nThe judgement of the court states: \"Article 5 of Directive 2001/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society must be interpreted as meaning that the copies on the user’s computer screen and the copies in the internet ‘cache’ of that computer’s hard disk, made by an end-user in the course of viewing a website, satisfy the conditions that those copies must be temporary, that they must be transient or incidental in nature and that they must constitute an integral and essential part of a technological process, as well as the conditions laid down in Article 5(5) of that directive, and that they may therefore be made without the authorisation of the copyright holders.\"\n\nThe Boy Genius Report weblog noted that \"As long as an Internet user is streaming copyrighted content online ... it’s legal for the user, who isn’t willfully [sic] making a copy of said content. If the user only views it directly through a web browser, streaming it from a website that hosts it, he or she is apparently doing nothing wrong.\"\n\nIn November 2009, the European Parliament voted on changes to the Telecoms Package. With regard to file-sharing, MEPs agreed to compromise between protecting copyright and protecting user's rights. A European Parliament statement reads \"A user's internet access may be restricted, if necessary and proportionate, only after a fair and impartial procedure including the user's right to be heard.\" EU members were given until May 2011 to implement these changes into their own laws.\n\nIn Germany, file sharing is illegal and even one copyrighted file downloaded through BitTorrent can trigger €1000 fines or more. The GEMA also used to block many YouTube videos.\n\nIn response to copyright violations using peer to peer file sharing or BitTorrent the content industry has developed what is known as a graduated response, or \" three strikes system\". Consumers who do not adhere to repeated complaints on copyright infringement, risk losing access to the internet. The content industry has thought to gain the co-operation of internet service providers (ISPs), asking them to provide subscriber information for IP addresses identified by the content industry as engaged in copyright violations. Consumer rights groups have argued that this approach denies consumers the right to due process and the right to privacy. The European Parliament passed a non-binding resolution in April 2008 admonishing laws that would require ISPs to disconnect their users and would prevent individuals from acquiring access to broadband.\n\nIn a number of European countries attempts to implement a graduated response have led to court cases to establish under which circumstances an ISP may provide subscriber data to the content industry. In order to pursue those that download copyrighted material the individual committing the infringing must be identified. Internet users are often only identifiable by their Internet Protocol address (IP address), which distinguishes the virtual location of a particular computer. Most ISPs allocate a pool of IP addresses as needed, rather than assigning each computer a never-changing static IP address. Using ISP subscriber information the content industry has thought to remedy copyright infringement, assuming that the ISPs are legally responsible for the end user activity, and that the end user is responsible for all activity connected to his or hers IP address.\n\nIn 2005 a Dutch court ordered ISPs in the Netherlands not to divulge subscriber information because of the way the Dutch content industry group had collected the IP addresses (Foundation v. UPC Nederland). According to Dutch law ISPs can only be ordered to provide personal subscriber data if it is plausible that an unlawful act occurred, and if it is shown beyond a reasonable doubt that the subscriber information will identify the person who committed the infringing act. In Germany court specifically considered the right to privacy and in March 2008 the German Federal Constitutional Court ruled that ISPs could only give out IP address subscription information in case of a \"serious criminal investigation\". The court furthermore ruled that copyright infringement did not qualify as a serious enough offense. Subsequently, in April 2008, the Bundestag (German parliament) approved a new law requiring ISPs to divulge the identity of suspected infringers who infringe on a commercial scale. Similarly, in Sweden, a controversial file sharing bill is awaiting the Riksdag’s approval. The law, which would enter into effect on 1 April 2009, would allow copyright holders to request the IP addresses and names of copyright infringement suspects in order to take legal action against them. The copyright holders, though, should present sufficient evidence of harm to justify the release of information regarding the Internet subscribers. In Italy, the courts established that criminal liability does not extend to file sharing copyrighted material, as long as it is not done for commercial gain. Ruling on a case involving a copyright holder who employed a third party to collect IP addresses of suspected copyright infringers, the Italian Data Protection Authority ruled in February 2008 that the systematic monitoring peer-to-peer activities for the purpose of detecting copyright infringers and suing them is prohibited.\n\nIn October 2009, France's highest constitutional court approved the HADOPI law, a \"three-strikes law\"; however, the law was revoked on 10 July 2013 by the French Government because the punitive penalties imposed on copyright infringers was considered to be disproportionate.\n\nIn May 2010, Irish internet provider Eircom have announced they will cut off the broadband connection of subscribers suspected of copyright infringement on peer-to-peer file sharing networks. Initially, customers will be telephoned by Eircom to see if they are aware of the unauthorized downloads. When customers are identified for a third time they will lose their internet connection for 7 days, if caught for a fourth time they will lose their internet connection for a year.\n\nFile sharing in Japan is notable for both its size and sophistication. The Recording Industry Association of Japan claims illegal downloads outnumber legal ones 10:1.\n\nThe sophistication of Japan's filesharing is due to the sophistication of Japanese anti-filesharing. Unlike most other countries, filesharing copyrighted content is not just a civil offense, but a criminal one, with penalties of up to ten years for uploading and penalties of up to two years for downloading. There is also a high level of Internet service provider cooperation. This makes for a situation where file sharing as practiced in many other countries is quite dangerous.\n\nTo counter, Japanese file sharers employ anonymization networks with clients such as Perfect Dark (パーフェクトダーク) and Winny.\n\nIn June 2011, the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission has ordered the blocking of several websites including The Pirate Bay and several file-hosting websites via a letter dated 30 May to all Malaysian ISPs for violating Section 41 of the Copyright Act 1987, which deals with pirated content.\n\nMexican law does not currently address non-commercial file sharing, although Mexican legislators have considered increasing penalties for unauthorized file sharing. Broadband usage is increasing in Mexico, and Internet cafes are common. Due to the relative lack of authorized music distribution services in Mexico, filesharing continues to dominate music access. According to the recording industry in 2010, Internet sharing of music dominated approximately 90% of the total music market in Mexico with peer to peer networks the most dominant form of music copyright infringement.\n\nAccording to Dutch law reproduction of a literary, science, or art work is not considered a violation on the right of the creator or performing artist when all of the following conditions have been met:\n\n\nSuch a copy is called a 'thuiskopie' or home copy.\n\nSince 1991, following a decision by the Ministry of Justice, there is an organization which guarantees that artists and rights holders get a compensation for copies of their works made for private use. This compensation is levied indirectly through a surcharge on information carriers such as blank CD's, blank DVD's, MP3 Players, and, since 2013, hard drives and tablets.\n\nFile sharing in North Korea is done by hand with physical transport devices such as computer disk drives, due to lack of access to the Internet. It is illegal, due to regime attempts to control culture. Despite government repression, file sharing is common, as it is in most other countries.\n\nBecause official channels are heavily dominated by government propaganda and outside media is banned, illegally traded files are a unique view into the outside world for North Koreans. The most shared media is from South Korea; k-pop and soap operas.\n\nIn March 2009, South Korea passed legislation that gave internet users a form of three strikes for unlawful file sharing with the intention of curbing online theft.\nThis is also known as graduated response.\nAs the number of cases of unauthorized sharing increases, the proportion of youth involved has increased. As file shares are monitored, they are sent messages instructing them to stop. If their file sharing continues, their internet connection may be disconnected for up to six months.\nThe force behind this movement is the Korean National Assembly’s Committee\non Culture, Sports, Tourism, Broadcasting & Communications (CCSTB&C). With help from local internet service providers, the CCSTB&C have gained\naccess and formed communication channels to specific file sharing users.\n\nIn a series of cases, Spanish courts have ruled that file sharing for private use is legal.\nIn 2006, the record industry's attempts to criminalize file sharing were thwarted when Judge Paz Aldecoa declared it legal to download indiscriminately in Spain, if done for private use and without any intent to profit, and the head of the police's technology squad has publicly said \"No pasa nada. Podéis bajar lo que queráis del eMule. Pero no lo vendáis.\" (\"It's ok. You can download whatever you want with eMule. But don't sell it.\"). There have been demonstrations where the authorities have been informed that copyrighted material would be downloaded in a public place, the last of which took place on 20 December 2008. No legal action was taken against the protestors. In another decision from May 2009, a judge ruled in favor of a person engaged in the private, non-commercial file-sharing of thousands of movies, even though the copying was done without the consent of the copyright owners.\n\nThe Spanish Supreme Court has ruled that personal data associated with an IP address may only be disclosed in the course of a criminal investigation or for public safety reasons. (Productores de Música de España v. Telefónica de España SAU).\n\nIt has been reported that Spain has one of the highest rates of file-sharing in Europe. Over a twelve-month period there were 2.4 billion reported downloads of copyrighted works including music, video games, software and films in Spain. Statistics for 2010 indicate that 30% of the Spanish population uses file-sharing websites, double the European average of 15%.\n\nRecord labels would have it that this has had a negative impact on the industry, with investment drying up, according to IFPI head John Kennedy. In 2003, for instance, 10 new Spanish artists appeared in the top 50 album chart, but in 2009 not a single new Spanish artist featured in the same chart. Album sales dropped by two-thirds over a period of five years leading up to 2010. \"Spain runs the risk of turning into a cultural desert ... I think it's a real shame that people in authority don't see the damage being done.\"\n\nHowever, the Spanish Association of Music Promoters (APM) states that \"Music is alive,\" as despite the decrease in record sales the revenues from concert ticket sales has increased 117% over the last decade, from €69.9 million to €151.1 million in 2008. The number of concerts doubled from 71,045 in 2000 to 144,859 in 2008, and the number of people attending concerts increased from 21.8 million in 2000 to over 33 million in 2008.\n\nDespite the troubles weathered by the entertainment industry, file sharing and torrent websites were ruled legal in Spain in March 2010. The judge responsible for the court ruling stated that \"P2P networks are mere conduits for the transmission of data between Internet users, and on this basis they do not infringe rights protected by Intellectual Property laws\".\n\nOn 20 September 2013, the Spanish government approved new laws that will take effect at the beginning of 2014. The approved legislation will mean that website owners who are earning \"direct or indirect profit,\" such as via advertising links, from pirated content can be imprisoned for up to six years. Peer-to-peer file-sharing platforms and search engines are exempt from the laws.\n\nSince January 2015, Vodafone Spain blocks thepiratebay.org as requested by the Ministry of Interior. And since 29 March 2015 thepiratebay is blocked on multiple URLs from all ISPs\n\nAround 2010, the UK government's position was that action would help \"drive the UK’s vital creative and digital sectors to bolster future growth and jobs.\" According to a 2009 report carried out by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry \"95 per cent of music downloads are unauthorised, with no payment to artists and producers\". Market research firm Harris Interactive believed there to be 8.3 million file sharers in the UK. Moreover the BPI claimed that in 1999 UK music purchases totaled £1,113 million but had fallen to £893.8 million in 2008. The Digital Economy Act 2010 received Royal Assent on 9 April 2010. But subsequently its main provisions were never legislatively passed.\n\nPrevious cases in the UK have seen internet users receive bills of £2500 for sharing music on the internet.\n\nThe Digital Economy Bill proposed that internet service providers (ISPs) issue warnings by sending letters to those downloading copyrighted files without authorization. Following this, the bill proposed that ISPs slow down or even suspend internet access for repeat offenders of unauthorized file sharing. The bill aimed to force internet service providers to disclose the identities of those offenders as well as making conditions for the regulation of copyright licensing. The Digital Economy Bill incorporated a graduated response policy despite the alleged file sharer not necessarily having to be convicted of copyright offences. The bill also introduced fines of up to £50,000 for criminal offences relating to copyright infringement – for example if music is downloaded with intent to sell. The high penalty is considered to be \"proportionate to the harm caused to UK industries\". An appeals process exists whereby the accused can contest the case however, the concern has been expressed that this process will be costly and that, in requiring the individual to prove their innocence, \"the bill reverses the core principles of natural justice\". Similarly, a website may be blocked if it is considered that it \"has been, is being, or is likely to be\" used in connection with copyright infringement meaning that a site does not actually have to be involved in copyright infringement – rather \"intent\" must be proved.\n\nThe Act was seen as controversial, and potentially creating serious repercussions for both file sharers and internet service providers. The bill was met with a mixed response. Geoff Taylor of the BPI claims the bill is \"vital\" for the future of creative works in the UK. The Conservative party spokesman for Culture and Media stated that those downloading should be given a criminal record. Conversely, the Liberal Democrat party spokesman for Culture and Media claimed the bill was \"reckless and dangerous\" stating that children could unwittingly be file sharing causing an entire family to lose their internet connection. In addition to this, there was concern that hackers may access internet connections to download files and leave the bill payer responsible. Specific concerns raised included:\n\nThe bill provoked protests in many forms. The Guardian reported that hundreds were expected to march outside the House of Commons on 24 March 2010. Moreover, an estimated 12,000 people sent emails to their MPs, through the citizen advocacy organization 38 degrees. 38 degrees objected to the speed with which the bill was rushed through parliament, without proper debate, due to the imminent dissolution of parliament prior to a general election. In October 2009 TalkTalk launched its Don't Disconnect Us campaign asking people to sign a petition against the proposal to cut off the internet connections of those accused of unauthorized file sharing. By November 2009 the petition had almost 17,000 signatories and by December had reached over 30,000. The Pirate Party in the UK called for non-commercial file sharing to be legalized. Formed in 2009 and intending to enter candidates in the 2010 UK general election, the Pirate Party advocates reform to copyright and patent laws and a reduction in government surveillance.\n\nThe Code which would implement these sections of the Act was never passed into law by Parliament, and no action was taken on it after around 2013.\n\nThe Digital Economy Act 2017 updates the anti-infringement provisions of existing laws, creates or updates criminal copyright breach provisions, and provides for a wider range of sentencing for criminal infringement.\n\nIn Sony Corp. v. Universal Studios, 464 U.S. 417 (1984), the Supreme Court found that Sony's new product, the Betamax (the first mass-market consumer videocassette recorder), did not subject Sony to secondary copyright liability because it was capable of substantial non-infringing uses. Decades later, this case became the jumping-off point for all peer-to-peer copyright infringement litigation.\n\nThe first peer-to-peer case was \"A&M Records v. Napster\", 239 F.3d 1004 (9th Cir. 2001). Here, the 9th Circuit considered whether Napster was liable as a secondary infringer. First, the court considered whether Napster was contributorily liable for copyright infringement. To be found contributorily liable, Napster must have engaged in \"personal conduct that encourages or assists the infringement.\" The court found that Napster was contributorily liable for the copyright infringement of its end-users because it \"knowingly encourages and assists the infringement of plaintiffs' copyrights.\" The court analyzed whether Napster was vicariously liable for copyright infringement. The standard applied by the court was whether Napster \"has the right and ability to supervise the infringing activity and also has a direct financial interest in such activities.\" The court found that Napster did receive a financial benefit, and had the right and ability to supervise the activity, meaning that the plaintiffs demonstrated a likelihood of success on the merits of their claim of vicarious infringement. The court denied all of Napster's defenses, including its claim of fair use.\n\nThe next major peer-to-peer case was \"MGM v. Grokster\", 545 U.S. 913 (2005). In this case, the Supreme Court found that even if Grokster was capable of substantial non-infringing uses, which the Sony court found was enough to relieve one of secondary copyright liability, Grokster was still secondarily liable because it induced its users to infringe.\n\nIt is important to note the concept of blame in cases such as these. In a pure P2P network there is no host, but in practice most P2P networks are a hybrid (see \"Computer science perspective\" below). This has led groups such as the RIAA to file suit against individual users, rather than against companies. The reason that Napster was subject to violation of the law and ultimately lost in court was because Napster was not a pure P2P network but instead maintained a central server which maintained an index of the files currently available on the network.\n\nAround the world in 2006, an estimated five billion songs, equating to approximately 38,000 years in music were swapped on peer-to-peer websites, while 509 million songs were purchased online. The same study which estimated these findings also found that artists that had an online presence ended up retaining more of the profits rather than the music companies.\n\nIn November 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives introduced the Secure Federal File Sharing Act, which would, if enacted, prohibit the use of peer-to-peer file-sharing software by U.S. government employees and contractors on computers used for federal government work. The bill has died with the adjournment of 111th Congress.\n\nA copyright in the United States consists of the exclusive rights enumerated under 17 USC 106. When having to do with pictures, music, literature or video, these exclusive rights include:\n1. The right to reproduce or redistribute the picture, music, lyrics, text, video, or images of a video.\n2. The right to distribute the picture, music, lyrics, text, video, or images of a video.\n3. The right to produce derivative works of the copyrighted work.\n4. The right to perform the work publicly.\n5. The right to display the work publicly.\n6. The right to transmit the work through the use of radio or digital transition. \nIn summary, these exclusive rights cover the reproduction, adaptation, publication, performance, and display of a copyrighted work (subject to limitations such as fair use).\n\nAnyone who violates the exclusive rights of copyright has committed copyright infringement, whether or not the work has been registered at the copyright office. If an infringement has occurred, the copyright owner has a legal right to sue the infringer for violating the terms of their copyright. The monetary value of the lawsuit can be whatever a jury decides is acceptable.\n\nIn the case of file sharing networks, companies claim that peer-to-peer file sharing enables the violation of their copyrights. File sharing allows any file to be reproduced and redistributed indefinitely. Therefore, the reasoning is that if a copyrighted work is on a file sharing network, whoever uploaded or downloaded the file is liable for violating the copyright because they are reproducing the work without the authorization of the copyright holder or the law.\n\nThe fundamental question, \"what use can a P2P file-sharing network's customers make of the software and of copyrighted materials without violating copyright law\", has no answer at this time, as there has been almost no dispositive decision-making on the subject.\n\nThis issue has received virtually no appellate attention, the sole exception being \"BMG Music v. Gonzalez\", a decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which held that where a defendant has admitted downloading and copying song files from other users in the P2P network without permission of the copyright holders, she cannot claim that such copying is a \"fair use\". Since \"Gonzalez\" involves a defendant who had admitted to actual copying and downloading of songs from other unauthorized users, it is of limited applicability in contested cases, in that it relates solely to the reproduction right in 17 USC 106(1), and has no bearing on the 17 USC 106(3) distribution right.\n\nA series of cases dealing with the RIAA's \"making available\" theory has broad implications, not only for the subject of P2P file sharing but for the Internet at large. The first to receive a great deal of attention was \"Elektra v. Barker\", an RIAA case against Tenise Barker, a Bronx nursing student. Ms. Barker moved to dismiss the complaint, contending, among other things, that the RIAA's allegation of \"making available\" did not state any known claim under the Copyright Act. The RIAA countered with the argument that even without any copying, and without any other violation of the record companies' distribution rights, the mere act of \"making available\" is a copyright infringement, even though the language does not appear in the Copyright Act, as a violation of the \"distribution\" right described in 17 USC 106(3). Thereafter, several \"amicus curiae\" were permitted to file briefs in the case, including the MPAA, which agreed with the RIAA's argument, and the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), the U.S. Internet Industry Association (USIIA), and the Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA), which agreed with Ms. Barker. The US Department of Justice submitted a brief refuting one of the arguments made by EFF, but did not take any position on the RIAA's \"making available\" argument, noting that it had never prosecuted anyone for \"making available\". The \"Elektra v. Barker\" case was argued before Judge Kenneth M. Karas in Manhattan federal court on 26 January 2007, and decided on 31 March 2008.\n\nThe decision rejected the RIAA's \"making available\" theory but sustained the legal sufficiency of the RIAA's pleading of actual distribution and actual downloading. Additionally, the Court suggested to the RIAA that it might want to amend its complaint to include a claim for \"offering to distribute for purposes of distribution\", but gave no guidance on what type of evidence would be required for an \"offer\". The Court's suggestion that merely \"offering\" to distribute could constitute a violation of the Act has come under attack from William Patry, the author of the treatise Patry on Copyright.\n\nThree other decisions, also rejecting the RIAA's \"making available\" theory, came from more unexpected sources.\n\nThe \"Barker\" decision was perhaps rendered anticlimactic by the decision of Judge Janet Bond Arterton, from the District of Connecticut, handed down six weeks earlier, in \"Atlantic v. Brennan\", rejecting the RIAA's application for a default judgment. \"Brennan\", like \"Barker\", rejected the RIAA's \"making available\" theory, but unlike \"Barker\" it found the RIAA's specificity on the other issues to be insufficient, and it rejected the conceptual underpinnings upon which Judge Karas based his \"offer to distribute\" idea.\n\nAnd \"Barker\" was perhaps overshadowed by the decision of Judge Gertner, rendered the same day as the \"Barker\" decision, in quashing a subpoena served on Boston University to learn the identity of BU students, in \"London-Sire v. Doe 1\". Here too the Court rejected the RIAA's \"making available\" theory, but here too—like \"Atlantic\" but unlike \"Elektra\" – also rejected any possible underpinning for an \"offer to distribute\" theory.\n\nAnd then came the decision of the District Judge Neil V. Wake, in the District of Arizona, in \"Atlantic v. Howell\". This 17-page decision – rendered in a case in which the defendant appeared \"pro se\" (i.e., without a lawyer) but eventually received the assistance of an \"amicus curiae\" brief and oral argument by the Electronic Frontier Foundation—was devoted almost exclusively to the RIAA's \"making available\" theory and to the \"offer to distribute\" theory suggested by Judge Karas in \"Barker\". \"Atlantic v. Howell\" strongly rejected both theories as being contrary to the plain wording of the Copyright Act. The Court held that \"Merely making a copy available does not constitute distribution...The statute provides copyright holders with the exclusive right to distribute \"copies\" of their works to the public \"by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by rental, lease, or lending.\" 17 U.S.C. ...106(3). Unless a copy of the work changes hands in one of the designated ways, a \"distribution\" under ...106(3) has not taken place.\" The Court also expressly rejected the 'offer to distribute' theory suggested in \"Barker\", holding that \"An offer to distribute does not constitute distribution\".\n\nThe next critical decision was that in \"Capitol v. Thomas\", which had received a great deal of media attention because it was the RIAA's first case to go to trial, and probably additional attention due to its outsized initial jury verdict. The RIAA had prevailed upon the trial judge to give the jurors an instruction which adopted its \"making available\" theory, over the protestations of the defendant's lawyer. Operating under that instruction, the jury returned a $222,000 verdict over $23.76 worth of song files. Almost a year after the jury returned that verdict, however, District Judge Michael J. Davis set the verdict aside, and ordered a new trial, on the ground that his instruction to the jurors—that they did not need to find that any files were actually distributed in order to find a violation of plaintiffs' distribution right—was a \"manifest error of law\". The Judge's 44-page decision agreed with \"Howell\" and \"London-Sire\" and rejected so much of \"Barker\" as intimated the existence of a viable \"offer to distribute\" theory.\n\nThere may be indications that the RIAA has been jettisoning its \"making available\" theory. In a San Diego, California, case, \"Interscope v. Rodriguez\", where the Judge dismissed the RIAA's complaint as \"conclusory\", \"boilerplate\", \"speculation\", the RIAA filed an amended complaint which contained no reference at all to \"making available\". In subsequent cases, the RIAA's complaint abandoned altogether the \"making available\" theory, following the model of the \"Interscope v. Rodriguez\" amended complaint.\n\nIn its place, it is apparently adopting the \"offer to distribute\" theory suggested by Judge Karas. In the amended complaint the RIAA filed in \"Barker\", it deleted the \"making available\" argument—as required by the judge—but added an \"offer to distribute\" claim, as the judge had suggested. It remains to be seen if it will follow that pattern in other cases.\n\nSecondary liability, the possible liability of a defendant who is not a copyright infringer but who may have encouraged or induced copyright infringement by another, has been discussed generally by the United States Supreme Court in \"MGM v. Grokster\", which held in essence that secondary liability could only be found where there has been affirmative encouragement or inducing behavior. On remand, the lower court found Streamcast, the maker of Morpheus software, to be liable for its customers' copyright infringements, based upon the specific facts of that case.\n\nUnder US law \"the Betamax decision\" (Sony Corp. of America v. Universal City Studios, Inc.), holds that copying \"technologies\" are not \"inherently\" illegal, if substantial non-infringing use can be made of them. Although this decision predated the widespread use of the Internet, in \"MGM v. Grokster\", the U.S. Supreme Court acknowledged the applicability of the Betamax case to peer-to-peer file sharing, and held that the networks could not be liable for merely providing the technology, absent proof that they had engaged in \"inducement.\"\n\nIn 2006 the RIAA initiated its first major post-Grokster, secondary liability case, against LimeWire in Arista Records LLC v. Lime Group LLC, where the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York held that LimeWire induced copyright infringement and granted a permanent injunction against LimeWire.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) seeks to protect and expand digital rights through litigation, political lobbying, and public awareness campaigns. The EFF has vocally opposed the RIAA in its pursuit of lawsuits against users of file sharing applications and supported defendants in these cases. The foundation promotes the legalization of peer-to-peer sharing of copyrighted materials and alternative methods to provide compensation to copyright holders.\n\nIn September 2008 the organization marked the 5th 'anniversary' of the RIAA's litigation campaign by publishing a highly critical, detailed report, entitled \"RIAA v. The People: Five Years Later\", concluding that the campaign was a failure.\n\nSeveral months later, it was reported that the RIAA was suspending its litigation campaign, followed by a report that it had fired the investigative firm SafeNet (formerly MediaSentry) operating on its behalf. Some of the details of the reports, including claims that the RIAA had actually stopped commencing new lawsuits months earlier, and that its reason for doing so was that it had entered into tentative agreements with Internet service providers to police their customers, proved to be either inaccurate or impossible to verify and RIAA's claim not to have filed new cases \"for months\" was false.\n\nA study ordered by the European Union found that illegal downloading \"may\" lead to an increase in overall video game sales because newer games charge for extra features or levels. The paper concluded that piracy had a negative financial impact on movies, music, and literature. The study relied on self-reported data about game purchases and use of illegal download sites. Pains were taken to remove effects of false and misremembered responses.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12244079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12244079", "title": "Maritime Security Regimes", "text": "Maritime Security Regimes\n\nMaritime Security Regimes are codes and conventions of behavior agreed upon by coastal states to provide a degree of security within territorial waters and on the high seas.\n\nOne of the best known International Maritime Regimes is the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, or UNCLOS. While UNCLOS is only one of many regimes, or sets of rules, laws, codes and conventions that have been created to regulate the activities of private, commercial and military users of our seas and oceans, it provides the legal framework for further maritime security cooperation. Most maritime regimes, including UNCLOS, have been created through the United Nations International Maritime Organization (IMO) in consultation with its member states, and refer to navigation, resource allocation and ownership, prevention of pollution and environmental protection. The United States has not yet ratified UNCLOS (see United States non-ratification of the UNCLOS) but it does adhere to its conventions, and has been the driving force behind other maritime security initiatives, including PSI, CSI, ISPS Code and counter-piracy agreements to address piracy against commercial shipping in the Gulf of Aden, Horn of Africa region. The United States has also led attempts to expand current bilateral maritime policing, counter narcotics trafficking agreements, whereby regional states in the Caribbean participate in a Caribbean Regional Maritime Agreement (CRA) - (long name: Agreement Concerning Co-operation in Suppressing Illicit Maritime and Air Trafficking in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances in the Caribbean Area).\n\nWhere maritime security regimes can differ from other maritime regimes, is that they are created to enable effective policing beyond the jurisdictional constraints of the territorial sea, which ranges from to from the high-water mark of a coastal state (see UNCLOS).\n\nComplications arise when a navy, coast guard, coastwatch, maritime police force, or other agency wishes to intercept (or 'interdict') vessels suspected of carrying out illegal activities, such as piracy against ships, smuggling or there is potential for an act of terrorism. If a suspect vessel is registered, or 'flagged', with a state other than the state of the pursuing authorities, then in most cases the pursuing authorities must gain the permission of the 'flag' state prior to boarding. If the suspect vessel crosses into the territorial waters of another state, possibly a third state, which is not the home state of the pursuing authorities, then permission must be sought from the territorial state prior to intercepting or boarding.\n\nHowever, if a prior agreement has been arranged with one or more coastal states, then this can simplify and speed up the process and can make the difference between suspects being detained or not. If several states within a maritime region (such as the Caribbean Sea or Southeast Asia) can come to agreement on 'hot pursuit' and boarding of suspect vessels, then this will reduce time that must otherwise be spent seeking permission.\n\nUNCLOS, Article 111 states that: \"The hot pursuit of a foreign ship may be undertaken when the competent authorities of the coastal State have good reason to believe that the ship has violated the law and regulations of that State. Such pursuit must be commenced when the foreign ship or one of its boats is within the internal waters, the archipelagic waters, the territorial sea, or the contiguous zone if the pursuit has not been interrupted...The right of hot pursuit ceases as soon as the ship pursued enters the territorial sea of its own State or of a third State.\"\n\nWhile there is a broad school of thought and considerable academic literature on 'regimes' (see Regime theory), less is known about Maritime Security Regimes as an academic field, or set of theories in its own right. Another related area that requires further research is Regional Maritime Security Regimes, for while there do exist international regimes such as UNCLOS (1988), SUA (1988), ISPS code (2004) there is a trend toward regionalism in maritime security, and exclusion of a strong hegemony to administer it. The CRA is an example of a comprehensive multilateral regional maritime agreement. the CRA arose out of a need to respond to the growing prevalence of drug trafficking through the Caribbean Sea. Initially bi-lateral agreements between Caribbean states sought to address the delays that occurred when suspects fled into the territorial sea and beyond the jurisdiction of the United States Coast Guard (USCG). These comprehensive agreements sought, among other things, to allow law enforcement officers of one state to be 'sea-rider' LEDETS aboard vessels of the territorial states to reduce lengthy permission-seeking processes. The CRA refers to existing international convention found within the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (1988). Article 17 of the UN Drugs Convention states:\n\n\"1. The Parties [states] shall co-operate to the fullest extent possible to suppress illicit traffic by sea, in conformity with the international law of the sea.\"\n\nMaritime Security in its commercial and military forms has been the primary reason for Naval presence in areas with high shipping traffic but low levels of policing. Notable areas have historically included the Caribbean Sea, and currently include piracy on the West Coast of Africa Nigeria, the East Coast of Africa, particularly the Horn of Africa, Gulf of Aden and Somalian Coast; the South China Sea, and until 2007, Southeast Asia's Strait of Malacca and Singapore Strait. Security Regimes were developed during the Cold War, with the SALT I and SALT II but maritime regimes that protect the rights and free passage of commercial and other maritime traffic have been under development since colonial powers sought to protect resources and trade routes from South and Southeast Asia to Europe. Academic literature on Maritime Security Regimes is minimal, although material relating to regional maritime policing, and anti-piracy agreements such as UN Security Resolutions 1816 (2008) and 1846 (2008) suggest this is increasingly significant area of research.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32405268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32405268", "title": "Michael Gargiulo", "text": "Michael Gargiulo\n\nMichael Thomas Gargiulo (born February 15, 1976) is an American alleged serial killer who may have killed as many as ten women.\n\nGargiulo is accused of brutally stabbing three women to death and attempting to murder a fourth.\n\nHe is a native of Glenview, Illinois, where he stabbed his neighbor, 18-year-old Tricia Pacaccio to death on her backdoor step. Her corpse was found by her father the morning after on August 14, 1993. She was stabbed 47 times. Gargiulo moved to Los Angeles in 1998, allegedly to escape scrutiny from police in Illinois. And, quite clearly, to continue repeating his interest in mutilating women.\n\nGargiulo is accused of three murders in Southern California between 2001 and 2008. On February 21, 2001, he allegedly stabbed Ashley Ellerin 47 times to death in her home in Hollywood. Ashley was left to die with \"a gaping wound to her neck, so deep that only her spinal cord kept her head from being severed. The rest of her body was covered with deep puncture wounds—to her chest, stomach, and back—some up to six inches deep. One of the blows \"actually penetrated the skull and took out a chunk of skull like a puzzle piece.\" Ellerin was dating Ashton Kutcher at the time and they had planned to go to a post-Grammy-Award party the night she was killed. He allegedly stabbed his neighbor, Maria Bruno, to death at her home in El Monte, California, on December 1, 2005. She was stabbed 17 times. He is charged with the attempted murder of his neighbor, Michelle Murphy, in her home in Santa Monica on April 28, 2008. She fought off the attack, and blood matching Gargiulo's DNA was found at the scene.\n\nGargiulo was arrested by the Santa Monica Police Department on June 6, 2008. On July 7, 2011 Gargiulo was charged with the first degree murder of Tricia Pacaccio. Although Gargiulo is charged in the two California murders as well as the Pacaccio murder in Chicago, police have not linked him to any other murders. Gargiulo allegedly told authorities in the Los Angeles County Jail that just because 10 women were killed — and his DNA was present — doesn't mean he murdered anyone, leading investigators to believe that there are more victims.\n\nMedia in Los Angeles dubbed Gargiulo the \"Hollywood Ripper\" as well as the \"Chiller Killer.\"\n\nGargiulo is being held at Los Angeles County Jail awaiting a capital murder trial. A pre-trial hearing was held June 9, 2017 in Los Angeles Superior Court with his trial scheduled to begin in October 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "57894682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57894682", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Marshall Islands)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Marshall Islands)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice, Immigration and Labor of the Marshall Islands is a ministry of the government of the Marshall Islands. The role of the ministry is to promote the safety of its citizens, oversee the administration of the Attorney General, prosecute criminal cases, defend the federal government from any civil suits and oversee, incorporate and charter approved corporations.\n\nIn 2017, the ministry's name was changed from the Ministry of Justice to its current name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28685358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28685358", "title": "Moyen-Congo constitutional referendum, 1958", "text": "Moyen-Congo constitutional referendum, 1958\n\nA referendum on the new Constitution of France was held in Moyen-Congo on 28 September 1958 as part of a wider referendum held across the French Union. The new constitution would make the territory an autonomous republic within the French Community, and was approved by 99% of voters. The Territorial Assembly proclaimed the Republic of the Congo on 28 November 1958, and the country became independent two years later.\n"}
{"id": "45966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45966", "title": "No first use", "text": "No first use\n\nNo first use (NFU) refers to a pledge or a policy by a nuclear power not to use nuclear weapons as a means of warfare unless first attacked by an adversary using nuclear weapons. Earlier, the concept had also been applied to chemical and biological warfare.\n\nChina declared its NFU policy in 1964, and has since maintained this policy. India articulated its policy of no first use of nuclear weapons in 2003.\n\nNATO has repeatedly rejected calls for adopting NFU policy, arguing that pre-emptive nuclear strike is a key option, in order to have a credible deterrent that could compensate for the overwhelming conventional weapon superiority enjoyed by the Soviet Army in the Eurasian land mass. In 1993, Russia dropped a pledge against first use of nuclear weapons made in 1982 by Leonid Brezhnev. In 2000, a Russian military doctrine stated that Russia reserves the right to use nuclear weapons \"in response to a large-scale conventional aggression\".\n\nChina became the first nation to propose and pledge NFU policy when it first gained nuclear capabilities in 1964, stating \"not to be the first to use nuclear weapons at any time or under any circumstances\". During the Cold War, China decided to keep the size of its nuclear arsenal small rather than compete in an international arms race with the United States and the Soviet Union.<ref name=\"S/1995/265\"></ref> China has repeatedly re-affirmed its no-first-use policy in recent years, doing so in 2005, 2008, 2009 and again in 2011. China has also consistently called on the United States to adopt a no-first-use policy, to reach an NFU agreement bilaterally with China, and to conclude an NFU agreement among the five nuclear weapon states. The United States has repeatedly refused these calls.\n\nIndia first adopted a \"No first use\" policy after its second nuclear tests, Pokhran-II, in 1998. In August 1999, the Indian government released a draft of the doctrine which asserts that nuclear weapons are solely for deterrence and that India will pursue a policy of \"retaliation only\". The document also maintains that India \"will not be the first to initiate a nuclear first strike, but will respond with punitive retaliation should deterrence fail\" and that decisions to authorise the use of nuclear weapons would be made by the Prime Minister or his 'designated successor(s)'. According to the National Research Development Corporation, despite the escalation of tensions between India and Pakistan in 2001–2002, India remained committed to its nuclear no-first-use policy. India is in the process of developing a nuclear doctrine based on \"credible minimum deterrence\".\n\nIn a speech at the National Defence College on October 21, 2010 by India's then National Security Advisor, Shivshankar Menon, the wording was changed from \"no first use\" to \"no first use against non-nuclear weapon states\", although some argued that this was not a substantive change but \"an innocent typographical or lexical error in the text of the speech.\" India's current PM Modi has in the run up to the recent general elections reiterated commitment to no first use policy. In April 2013, Shyam Saran, convener of the National Security Advisory Board, affirmed that regardless of the size of a nuclear attack against India, be it a tactical nuclear weapon or a strategic nuclear weapon, India will retaliate massively. This was in response to reports that Pakistan had developed a tactical battlefield nuclear weapon, in an attempt to nullify an Indian \"no first use\" retaliatory doctrine.\n\nPakistan, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States, and France say they will use nuclear weapons against either nuclear or non-nuclear states only in the case of invasion or other attack against their territory or against one of their allies. Historically, NATO military strategy, taking into account the numerical superiority of Warsaw Pact conventional forces, assumed that the use of tactical nuclear weapons would have been required in defeating a Soviet invasion.\n\nAt the 16th NATO summit in April 1999, Germany proposed that NATO adopt a no-first-use policy, but the proposal was rejected.\n\nRussia describes its entire military doctrine as defensive (see Military doctrine of 2010).\nWith regard to nuclear weapons specifically, Russia reserves the right to use nuclear weapons:\nThe new military doctrine of 2014 does not depart from this stance.\n\nIn March 2002, British defence secretary Geoff Hoon stated that the UK was prepared to use nuclear weapons against \"rogue states\" such as Iraq if they ever used \"weapons of mass destruction\" against British troops in the field. This policy was restated in February 2003. In April 2017 Defence Secretary Michael Fallon confirmed that the UK would use nuclear weapons in a \"pre-emptive initial strike\" in \"the most extreme circumstances\". Fallon stated in a parliamentary answer that the UK has neither a 'first use' or 'no first use' in its nuclear weapon policy so that its adversaries would not know when the UK would launch nuclear strikes. \n\nThe United States has refused to adopt a no-first-use policy, saying that it \"reserves the right to use\" nuclear weapons first in the case of conflict. The U.S. doctrine for the use of nuclear weapons was revised most recently in the Nuclear Posture Review, released April 6, 2010. The 2010 Nuclear Posture review reduces the role of U.S. nuclear weapons, stating that, \"The fundamental role of U.S. nuclear weapons, which will continue as long as nuclear weapons exist, is to deter nuclear attack on the United States, our allies, and partners.\" The U.S. doctrine also includes the following assurance to other states: \"The United States will not use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear weapons states that are party to the NPT and in compliance with their nuclear non-proliferation obligations.\"\n\nFor states eligible for this assurance, the United States would not use nuclear weapons in response to a chemical or biological attack, but states that those responsible for such an attack would be held accountable and would face the prospect of a devastating conventional military response. Even for states not eligible for this assurance, the United States would consider the use of nuclear weapons only in extreme circumstances to defend the vital interests of the United States or its allies and partners. The Nuclear Posture Review also notes, \"It is in the U.S. interest and that of all other nations that the nearly 65-year record of nuclear non-use be extended forever.\"\n\nThis supersedes the doctrine of the Bush administration set forth in \"Doctrine for Joint Nuclear Operations\" and written under the direction of Air Force General Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The new doctrine envisions commanders requesting presidential approval to use nuclear weapons to preempt an attack by a nation or a terrorist group using weapons of mass destruction. The draft also includes the option of using nuclear weapons to destroy known enemy stockpiles of nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons.\n\nIn August 2016, President Obama reportedly considered adopting a 'No First Use' policy. The President was persuaded by several Cabinet officials that 'No First Use' would rattle U.S. allies, and decided not to take up the policy.\n\nIn 2017, there were efforts to either require congressional approval for a preemptive nuclear strike or to ban it altogether and impose an NFU policy.\n\nPakistan has a no first attack policy in place since 1971. This policy was reiterated after the nuclear tests in 1998. Pakistan has vowed never to invade or attack another country under any circumstances. Pakistan's foreign minister Shamshad Ahmad had warned that if Pakistan is ever invaded or attacked, it will use \"any weapon in its arsenal\" to defend itself.\n\nPakistan refuses to adopt a \"no-first-use\" doctrine, indicating that it would launch nuclear weapons even if the other side did not use such weapons first. Pakistan's asymmetric nuclear posture has significant influence on India's decision ability to retaliate, as shown in 2001 and 2008 crises, when non-state actors carried out deadly terrorist attacks on India, only to be met with a relatively subdued response from India. A military spokesperson stated that \"Pakistan's threat of nuclear first-use deterred India from seriously considering conventional military strikes.\"\n\nPakistan's National Security Advisor Sartaj Aziz defended the policy of first use. Aziz stated that Pakistan's first use doctrine is entirely deterrent in nature. He explained that it was effective after the 2001 Indian Parliament attack and argued that if Pakistan had a no-first use policy, there would have been a major war between the two countries.\n\nAlthough Israel does not officially confirm or deny having nuclear weapons, the country is widely believed to be in possession of them. Its continued ambiguous stance puts it in a difficult position since to issue a statement pledging 'no first use' would confirm their possession of nuclear weapons.\n\nIsrael has said that it \"would not be the first country in the Middle East to formally introduce nuclear weapons into the region.\"\n\nIf Israel's very existence is threatened, some speculate that Israel would use a \"Samson Option,\" a \"last resort\" deterrence strategy of massive retaliation with nuclear weapons, should the State of Israel be substantially damaged and/or near destruction. According to Israeli historian Avner Cohen, Israel's policy on nuclear weapons, which was set down in 1966, revolves around four \"red lines\" which could lead to an Israeli nuclear response:\n\n\nWhile Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un stated that North Korea would \"not use nuclear weapons first unless aggressive hostile forces use nuclear weapons to invade on our sovereignty\" during the 7th Congress of the Workers' Party of Korea in 2016, it had, just two months prior, threatened a pre-emptive attack against the United States using nuclear weapons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38431033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38431033", "title": "North Carolina Jury Selection Policies", "text": "North Carolina Jury Selection Policies\n\nThe North Carolina jury selection policies govern a process used to find a panel of jurors who will be fair and impartial to both sides during a trial. North Carolina jury selection policies are documented in the North Carolina General Statutes § 9-1 through 9-9. These policies were originally passed in 1967, and they were revised in 2011. Jury selection is the procedure whereby persons from the community are called to court, questioned by the litigants as to their qualifications to serve as a juror and then either selected or rejected to serve as a juror. \n\nNorth Carolina selects jurors through the use of voir dire, which permits involved parties to ask questions of potential jurors for the purpose of determining whether or not these jurors should serve on the case. Voir dire has aims to get potential jurors speaking about themselves and to elicit truthful and complete answers from potential jurors. \n\nTo begin the process, North Carolina General Statute § 9-1 requires that (no later than July 1, 1967), each county shall appoint a jury commission of three members. One member of the commission shall be appointed by the senior regular resident superior court judge, one member by the clerk of superior court, and one member by the board of county commissioners. These members serve for a term or two years, and appointees may be reappointed to successive terms. The three-member committee chooses jurors from a master list that they compile using the policies that are given in G.S. § 9-1 through 9-9., \n\nDuring every odd-numbered year, the jury commission is charged with the duty of preparing a master list of prospective jurors who are qualified to serve beginning on January 1 of the next year. The master list must be created from a record of all the registered voters and persons with drivers license records. The jury commission may also use names from other lists as long as those lists are deemed reliable by that commission. Once this list is created, the commission must merge the names from each source used and randomly select the desired number of names for the master jury list. This process may be carried out using electronic data processing equipment in the counties that have the necessary equipment to do so. The jury commission shall continue to make decisions as to mental or physical competency of prospective jurors. In order to ensure random selection of names from the master list, the list is to be sorted into random order before the first panel is drawn, and after the first panel, names may be selected sequentially from the randomized list without having to be further randomized. \n\nThe process for preparing the master jury list must be recorded and approved by the commission, and these documents must be made available to the public for inspection in the office of the clerk of court. After the master jury list is prepared, the name of each qualified person selected for the list shall be recorded and alphabetically arranged. The office of the clerk of court is charged with maintaining the alphabetized list along with a statement of the sources used and procedures followed in preparing the list. The alphabetized list must be kept under lock and key, but it shall be made available for public inspection during regular office hours. The clerk of court may elect to store an electronic copy of the alphabetized list for the county. However, public access to juror information shall be limited to the alphabetized list of the names with no access to the addresses, which are confidential and not subject to discloser without an order of the court. \n\nAt least 30 days prior to any district or superior court cases that require a jury, either the clerk, assistant clerk, or deputy clerk must prepare a randomized list of potential jurors from the master jury list. The number of names on this randomized list must be equal to the number of jurors required for the scheduled session or sessions. In order to account for jurors whose duty has been deferred until this session, the clerk of superior court may decide to decrease the number of names on the randomized list. For each week of superior court sessions, the senior resident superior court judge for the district(s) shall specify the number of jurors to be drawn. For each week of district court jury session, the chief district judge of the district court district in which the county is located shall specify the number of jurors to be drawn. The clerk of superior court then may either prepare and issue the summons from that office or may deliver the printed list of summonses or list of names and addresses of jurors to the sheriff, who will then issue the summonses in accordance with the provisions of G.S, 9-10(a). The persons who are summoned may serve as jurors in either the superior court or district court or both for the week specified, and they will be discharged at the end of the weekly session(s), unless they are involved with a trial of a case, in which case they will be discharged when the trial is completed..\n\nAccording to the North Carolina General Statutes, all persons are qualified to serve as jurors and to be included on the master jury list who are citizens of the State and residents of the county. Also, prospective jurors will qualify who have not served as jurors during the preceding two years, who are 18 years of age or over, who are physically and mentally competent, who can hear and understand the English language. In addition, those who have not been convicted of a felony or having pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to an indictment charging a felony (or if convicted of a felony or having pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to an indictment charging a felony have had their citizenship restored pursuant to law), and who have not been adjudged non compos mentis. Anyone who does not qualify under these terms are subject to challenge for cause.\n\nJury service is a public duty, which means that jury service is the solemn obligation of all qualified citizens. For that reason, excuses from the discharge of this responsibility should be granted only for reasons of compelling personal hardship or because requiring service would be contrary to the public welfare, health, or safety. After a citizen applies for excusal from service, each chief district court judge shall receive, hear, and pass on applications for excuses from jury duty prior to the date on which the jury session convenes. The time and place for which applications for excuses will be heard must be publicly announced, and prospective jurors must be informed of this time and place. In North Carolina counties in which a trial court administrator is in place, the trial court administrator may be assigned the duty of reviewing applications for excuses from service. If a prospective juror is excused from duty at that time, that juror may be required to serve as a juror in a subsequent session of court, at which time that juror would be considered the same as if he were regularly summoned for service. \n\nAny person summoned as a juror who is 72 years or older and who wishes to be excused, deferred, or exempted may make the request without appearing in person by filing a signed statement on the ground of the request with the chief district court judge pursuant to G.S. 9-6(b), at any time five business days before the date upon which the person is summoned to appear. Anyone who is summoned as a juror who has a disability that could interfere with that person's ability to serve as a juror and who wishes to be excused, deferred, or exempted may make the request without appearing in person. The person must file a signed statement of the ground of the request, and this statement must include a brief explanation of the disability that interferes with the person's ability to serve as a juror. The statement must be filed with the chief district court judge of that district or the district court judge or trial court administrator who is designated by the chief district court judge pursuant to G.S. 9-6(b), and this must be done five business days before the date on which the person is summoned to appear. \n\nIt is possible for a person to request either a temporary or permanent exemption (under G.S. 9-6(c)), and it is up to the judge or trial court administrator to accept or reject either in the exercise of discretion conferred by G.S. 9-6(b). This includes the substitution of a temporary exemption for a requested permanent exemption. If the chief district court judge or the judge or trial court administrator (designated by G.S. 9-6(b) rejects the request for exemption, the prospective juror must immediately be notified of that decision by the trial court administrator or the clerk of court, and this can be done by telephone, letter, or in person. \n\nThe names of individuals who have been summoned for jury service as well as the dates on which the individuals have served must be noted on the master jury list. This information will be kept for two years, and those individuals will be exempt from jury service for two years from the date on which they were discharged from their prior service. \n"}
{"id": "27432229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27432229", "title": "Northern Virginia Criminal Justice Training Academy", "text": "Northern Virginia Criminal Justice Training Academy\n\nThe Northern Virginia Criminal Justice Training Academy is a law enforcement training facility located in Ashburn, Virginia. It serves 17 agencies in Virginia and Washington, D.C., and is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies (CALEA). It offers training for entry-level police officers, sheriff's deputies, and 9-1-1 dispatchers; as well as advanced training for veteran officers in subjects such as identity theft investigations, leadership, and hostage negotiation.\n\nThe Northern Virginia Criminal Justice Training Academy was established in 1965 as the Northern Virginia Police Academy. In 1971 the Virginia Department of Criminal Justice Services certified the Northern Virginia Police Academy as an approved Training School. The name of the academy was changed to its current name in 1977. In 1993 the Northern Virginia Criminal Justice Training Academy moved from Arlington, Virginia to its present location in Ashburn. The academy was certified by the CALEA in 1995, and re-certified in 1998 and 2001. It was accredited by the CALEA in 2004, and re-accredited in 2007 and 2010. The current executive director is William C. O'Toole.\n\nThe academy staff consists of 17 permanent, non-sworn employees and 18 sworn employees and one non-sworn employee from its member agencies.\n\nOfficers from the following seventeen agencies receive their basic training at the academy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58295320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58295320", "title": "Notebook scandal", "text": "Notebook scandal\n\nThe notebook scandal or graft scandal (called \"cuadernos de las coimas\" in Spanish, \"bribery notebooks\") took place in Argentina in 2018. It was started by the driver Óscar Centeno, who had worked for public officials during the presidencies of Néstor and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, and denounced an organized corruption scheme. According to notes that he had kept in personal notebooks, he had frequently carried bags filled with US dollars to several locations, including public buildings and even the personal house of Cristina Kirchner. Those bags would be payments for bribes.\n\nSeveral businessmen named in the notebooks were detained, and then confessed such payments to turn state's evidence. According to their testimonies, the Kirchners extorted them into paying bribes. José López, a politician detained a couple of years before, agreed to confess to the judge his role in it.\n\nAs an Argentine Senator, Cristina Kirchner has parliamentary immunity, which protects her from arrest and search and seizure operations unless the Argentine Senate agrees to it. Judge Bonadio asked the Senate for such a search at Cristina Kirchner's houses, but most senators of the Justicialist Party stayed outside so that the voting failed for lack of quorum. A large demonstration outside the Congress was followed by a new vote, that agreed to the search. The search did not find any money, but found the remains of a bank vault and a stolen car.\n\nÓscar Centeno was the driver of Roberto Baratta, an official of the Ministry of Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services, under minister Julio de Vido, during the presidency of Néstor Kirchner (2003–2007) and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner (2007–2015). He filled several notebooks with details of places and hours of several trips he made to transport bags of cash. Those bags would have been provided to the national government by businessmen benefited with large contracts. The notebooks cover the 2005–2015 period. All the briberies mentioned in the notebooks amount to US$53 million, but the investigators consider that the actual operations may be closer to US$160 million.\n\nHilda Horovitz, the former wife of Centeno, was interviewed by the \"Noticias\" magazine. She explained that her husband wrote the notebooks for a potential extortion of Baratta, in case he may eventually try to fire him. She mentioned that Centeno had a fluent relation with Néstor Kirchner, and saw Cristina Kirchner in a less frequent manner.\n\nThe notebooks came to light thanks to a secret informant that provided them to the newspaper \"La Nación\". Journalist Diego Cabot investigated them, but refused to run a scoop, gave photocopies of the notebooks to the judiciary, and returned the notebooks. As of August 2018, the identity of the informant and the current location of the original notebooks has not been disclosed.\n\nÓscar Centeno was detained when the case started. He confirmed his authorship of the notebooks, and declared himself guilty, and asked to turn state's evidence. The Argentine \"ley del arrepentido\" (), sanctioned in 2016, allows for those involved in corruption cases to receive leniency if their testimony helps to advance in the investigation of the case or get evidence against criminals of a higher hierarchy in the crime. The case is investigated by judge Claudio Bonadio.\n\nSeveral businessmen were detained as a result of the case, such as Carlos Wagner, leader of the Argentine Construction Chamber, and Gerardo Ferreyra from Electroingeniería. The Techint group was raided in search of evidences. Francisco Rubén Valenti, director of Impsa, had left the country two days before and was detained when he returned. As of August 25, the case caused 26 high-profile arrests, and 15 are still in prison. Wagner declared that the 20% of the price of construction deals was a bribery that was paid to the government official that approved it. A similar system would have been used with public transportation contractors, whose fees were kept at a reduced price and the state paid subsidies for the rest; 5% of such subsidies were briberies for government officials. Claudio Uberti, from an agency that oversees highway concessions, declared that every holder of a concession had to pay them US$150 monthly. Other businessmen declared that they had to pay such bribes simply to be allowed to keep working.\n\nThe sweep of detentions scared most of the involved businessmen, who quickly declared themselves guilty and provided testimony in exchange of leniency. According to the testimonies, the businessmen were forced to pay the bribes. The case is investigated as a criminal conspiracy composed by public officials, and led by Néstor and Cristina Kirchner.\n\nJosé López, a former official of the ministry of Federal Planning, had been detained in 2016 when he was caught trying to hide bags containing millions of dollars in a convent. Since his detention, he had only given vague and scant answers about the source of that money. When the scandal started, he agreed to give a full testimony and turn state's evidence. The judge accepted it, and he was removed from the prison in Ezeiza (shared with other convicted officials of the Kirchner regime) to an undisclosed location. López also pointed to Néstor and Cristina Kirchner as the masterminds of the operation.\n\nThe prosecutors of the case asked for a search and seizure raid at the houses of Cristina Kirchner. She has a house at the Recoleta neighbourhood of Buenos Aires, another one at Río Gallegos, Santa Cruz, and another at El Calafate. Unlike the other suspects, Kirchner enjoys parliamentary immunity as a member of the Argentine Senate. The Senate had already refused to retract her immunity on an unrelated case. The search was not expected to find money, but to compare the internal building design with the details mentioned in the notebooks. The Senate was scheduled to vote on the judicial request, but the absence of many Peronist senators did not allow it, as there was not enough quorum to start deliberations. This caused a demonstration attended by tens of thousands of people. A new vote removed Kirchner's immunity unanimously. Kirchner blamed the president Mauricio Macri for the whole event, claiming that it was a set up, and compared herself with the Brazilian Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, held prisoner as a result of a Brazilian judicial case about corruption.\n\nThe raid revealed an armored door inside the wardrobe at the Recoleta house, and that the El Calafate house had a dismantled bank vault. A golden car, that had been reported as stolen, was also found within the premises and taken by the police. Some folders included intelligence about people opposed by the Kirchners, such as the \"Clarín\" newspaper, the family of the late prosecutor Alberto Nisman and even judge Bonadio himself. Other objects, like the presidential sash and cane, were confiscated on the assumption that they belong to the president of Argentina office and must be returned afterwards. Bonadio returned them, ruling that they belong to the person, and although it is customary that they donate them to museums, it is not mandatory. The police also found and removed an item of hand-written mail from the 19th-century national hero José de San Martín to the Chilean Bernardo O'Higgins. According to a national law, such pieces of historical values are considered a national heritage and the undeclared possession is considered a crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19006234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19006234", "title": "Pendent party jurisdiction", "text": "Pendent party jurisdiction\n\nIn the United States federal courts, pendent party jurisdiction refers to a court's power to adjudicate a claim against a party who would otherwise not be subject to the jurisdiction of the federal courts, because the claim arose from a common nucleus of operative fact.\n\nOne well-known example of this is when a federal court adjudicates a state law claim asserted against a third party which is part of a case brought to it under its federal question jurisdiction. This was the situation in \"Finley v. United States\", , in which the Supreme Court found that a grant of jurisdiction over a claim involving certain parties did not extend to additional claims involving different parties. \"Finley\" was superseded by \"Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Services\", 545 U.S. 546, in which the Supreme Court noted that Congress overturned the result in \"Finley\" by enacting 28 U.S.C. § 1367. \n\nPendent party jurisdiction is a form of supplemental jurisdiction covered by . Subsection (b) prohibits parties from being joined in a federal case brought under the diversity jurisdiction of the federal courts (where diversity is the sole basis of federal court jurisdiction), if joining such parties would eliminate complete diversity.\n"}
{"id": "27326663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27326663", "title": "Philippine Green Building Council", "text": "Philippine Green Building Council\n\nThe Philippine Green Building Council (PHILGBC) is a national non-stock, non-profit organization that promotes the sharing of knowledge on green practices to the property industry to ensure a sustainable environment. It was organized to serve as a single voice in the promotion of holistic and market-based green building practices, to facilitate the sharing of green building information and practices in the building industry, and to serve as a non-partisan venue for the development of the BERDE Green Building Rating System.\n\nIn early 2006, a group of environmental advocates and business leaders convened to form PHILGBC with the realization that an organization is needed to promote greener buildings and coordinate efforts to sustainability. Incorporated in 2007, PHILGBC has been campaigning for the transformation of design, construction and management methods of the industry into practices that are environmentally and socially responsible, safe and healthy, and a prosperous environment that improves the quality of life.\n\nPHILGBC is an Emerging Member of the World Green Building Council (WorldGBC) and a member of the WorldGBC - Asia Pacific Network. The Council is also a member organization of the International Initiative for a Sustainable Built Environment (iiSBE), and a global partner of the GLOBE Alliance.\n\nThe Building for Ecologically Responsive Design Excellence (BERDE) Program was developed by PHILGBC as an appropriate response to the Philippine building industry’s need to proactively address the negative impacts of climate change in the property sector.\n\nThe BERDE Green Building Rating System is developed under the BERDE Program. It is a tool to measure, verify and monitor performance of buildings above and beyond existing mandatory building and environmental regulations and standards. The rating tool is consensus driven and is achieved through a multi-stakeholder consultation and collaboration process. BERDE Assessment and Certification is credible, unbiased, balanced and impartial and is achieved through a third party certification process conforming with international standards.\n\nBERDE is recognized as the National Voluntary Green Building Rating System of the Philippines through the Philippine Energy Efficiency Project: Efficient Building Initiative (PEEP-EBI) of the Department of Energy.\n\nStarted in 2007, Building Green is the series of conferences of the Philippine Green Building Council that highlights the current green practices of the industry. It features the latest innovative trends in building products, architecture, engineering and construction as initiated by the industry's best and brightest minds. The conference series was started as a venue for green building dialogue and to further develop and promote BERDE, as the National Green Building Rating System.\n\n"}
{"id": "12932227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12932227", "title": "Rubberwood", "text": "Rubberwood\n\nRubberwood is a light-colored medium-density tropical hardwood obtained from the Pará rubber tree (\"Hevea brasiliensis\"), usually from trees grown in rubber plantations. Rubberwood is commonly advertised as an \"environmentally friendly\" wood, as it makes use of plantation trees that have already served a useful function.\n\nRubberwood is also known as plantation hardwood, parawood, or \"Hevea\" for the genus that the tree belongs to. In 2002, the Malaysian Ministry of Primary Industries marketed it under the name \"Malaysian Oak\".\n\nAlthough it had been used on a small scale before, its use for furniture making has become much more common in recent decades with the development of chemical treatments to protect the wood against fungal and insect attacks. There are extensive rubber plantations with mature trees, especially in southeast Asia; the earlier practice was to burn the tree at the end of its latex-producing cycle.\n\nCurrently, rubber plantation trees are generally harvested for wood after they complete the latex producing cycle, when they are 25 to 30 years old. When the latex yields become extremely low, the trees are then felled, and new trees are usually planted. This makes rubberwood 'eco-friendly' in that the wood is harvested from a renewable source.\n\nRubberwood is susceptible to fungal and insect attack that limited its use in the past. However, in the 1980s, the development of chemical treatment processes allowed the wood to be more widely used for furniture making and frames. Today, rubberwood is generally treated soon after sawing by pressurized immersion in boron preservatives, followed by kiln-drying to diffuse the chemicals and to control moisture content.\n\nRubberwood has a dense grain that is easily controlled in the kiln drying process. Rubber-wood has very little shrinkage making it one of the more stable construction materials available for furniture, toys and kitchen accessories. It is easily worked, and takes on stains uniformly. As with all hardwoods, rubberwood comes in varying degrees of quality.\n\nIt is not suitable for outdoor use, as rain can leach the protective chemicals from the wood, exposing it to fungus and insect attacks. Excessive moisture will also cause the wood to warp and rot.\n\n"}
{"id": "51164309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51164309", "title": "Stratton's Independence, Ltd. v. Howbert", "text": "Stratton's Independence, Ltd. v. Howbert\n\nStratton's Independence, Ltd. v. Howbert, 231 U.S. 399 (1913), was a case before the U.S. Supreme Court that addressed the question of corporate taxation.\n\nThe case was argued on October 21, 1913, and decided on December 1, 1913.\n\nStratton's Independence, Limited, a British corporation that owned and operated mines in Colorado, sued in a district court to recover taxes it had paid under protest in accordance with the provisions of the Corporation Tax Act of 1909. During the year 1909, the firm had had gross sales of $284,682.85 and costs of $190,939.42, resulting in a profit of $93,743.43. In 1910, the figures had been similar. \n\nStratton's contended that the mining and sale of ore was an essentially different sort of activity than manufacturing, because it involved the depletion and sale of capital, and should therefore not be taxed in the same way, because taxing the sale of ore amounted to taxing capital.\n\nJustice Pitney, in the majority opinion, stated that the case raised three questions. The first was whether or not the Corporate Tax Act applied to mining corporations. The second question raised was whether or not proceeds from mining activities constituted \"income\" by the definition of the act. The final question related to whether or not ore sales were considered income and therefore if the mining corporation could deduct the value of the ore in place before it was mined as depreciation. The court answered the first two questions in the affirmative, but not the third. Mining, Justice Pitney argued, is generally comparable to manufacturing, and is certainly a business; hence, the gains from this activity should be considered income for the purposes of taxation.\n\nChief Justice White, Justice McKenna, and Justice Holmes dissented on the third question.\n\nThe case represented one of the Supreme Court's early attempts to define the term “income.”\n\nJustice Pitney's description of income as “the gain derived from capital, from labor, or from both combined” has been widely quoted, as has his comment that “the corporation tax act of 1909 was not intended to be and is not, in any proper sense, an income tax law.”\n\nThe case has been cited (unsuccessfully) in such cases as \"Hill v. United States\" and \"Cameron v. Internal Revenue Service, in support of the argument that a tax on an individual's income is unconstitutional, even though the decision in Stratton did not rule either corporate or individual income tax unconstitutional.\n"}
{"id": "7269619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7269619", "title": "Strike suit", "text": "Strike suit\n\nA strike suit is a lawsuit brought by a single person or group of people with the purpose of gaining a private settlement before going to court that would be less than the cost of the defendant's legal costs. Such suits frequently appear where the defendant is a considerably larger entity than the plaintiff, such as a corporation or an estate.\n\nCompany shareholders sometimes use strike suits as a means of addressing perceived failures by or discontentment with the company while avoiding becoming embroiled in litigation themselves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2436470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2436470", "title": "Struck jury", "text": "Struck jury\n\nA struck jury is a multi-step process of selecting a jury from a pool. First potential jurors are eliminated for hardship. Second jurors are eliminated for cause by conducting voir dire until there is a pool available that is exactly the size of the final jury (including required alternates) plus the number of peremptory challenges available to each side. Then the two sides exercise their peremptory challenges on the remaining pool, usually alternating. This procedure \"has its roots in ancient common law heritage\".\n\nCommentators have offered the following (and other) advantages of a struck jury over a \"strike and replace\" jury:\n\nIn older usage, and still in some jurisdictions a struck jury entails the formation of a jury pool of men who possess special qualifications to judge of the facts of a case. This was a common provision in U.S. insanity cases in the late 19th century. This usage is more often called a special jury. It derives in part from the nomenclature in use in England in the 18th century.\n\nThere were four different non-standard types of jury in England while operating under common law. The first three were first recognized by Parliament in 1730 under the general term \"special jury\". The fourth was known by the Latin phrase \"jury de medietate linguae\"\nThese were:\nThe special jury was used most extensively from 1770 to 1790, roughly during Lord Mansfield's tenure as Lord Chief Justice of the Court of King's Bench, and declined thereafter. The first statutory requirements for special jurors were introduced in the County Juries Act of 1825, which required such jurors to be merchants, bankers, esquires, or persons of higher degree. The special jury was eliminated by statute books in 1949, excepting the \"City of London special jury\" that remained available until 1971 for commercial trials in the King's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice. The last case using a special jury occurred in London in 1950. The \"jury de medietate linguae\" were abolished in the Naturalization Act of 1870, which also gave foreigners the right to serve on juries.\n\nThis method may be used in many U.S. states. In some states it may be used for both criminal and civil cases, in other states for only one of the two kinds. In at least the state of Washington, it is the default method of choosing a jury. Some courts of appeals in the U.S. have determined that a struck jury offers greater opportunity to shape the final jury than the more common \"sequential\" (also known as \"strike and replace\" or \"jury box\") method, where peremptory challenges can only be issued against those jurors already seated, with no knowledge of the replacement.\n\nThe use of this system in murder cases, when properly enabled by statute, was held by the Supreme Court of the United States to be constitutional in Brown v. New Jersey, .\n\nSome methods of implementing a struck jury have handled waived challenges by eliminating the last identified member of the juror pool. In discrimination cases, this has been treated as identical to specifically challenging that juror. As a result, the now preferred method of handling waived challenges is to let the other side finish its challenges and then randomly eliminate jurors to get to the number needed.\n\nIn New Zealand, the special jury has become obsolete and is no longer used. The need to provide special expertise through selection of jurors was eliminated by the introduction of expert witnesses, expert advisors to the judge, and administrative tribunals. The \"jury de medietate linguae\" from English common law was used for cases where a Māori was accused of a crime until it was abolished in 1961.\n\nIn 1735, John Peter Zenger, a newspaper publisher, was arrested and tried for libel against the governor of New York, which was then a colony of England. His first two lawyers were disbarred for attempting to turn the trial into an indictment of the governor. The judge appointed as lawyer John Chambers, who was a placeman of the governor. He then moved for a struck jury. The first panel created was not properly prepared by the clerk out of the book of potential jurors, and was overturned by the judges before use. The second was properly prepared, but the clerk or sheriff subsequently reordered the names to put a partisan of the governor as the foreman, which was also overturned. After the local attorney completed the process of getting an unbiased jury, Andrew Hamilton took over the defense, and won an acquittal on the grounds that the printed statements were true. Based on the law at the time, this was also an example of jury nullification.\n"}
{"id": "2541442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2541442", "title": "The Job (police newspaper)", "text": "The Job (police newspaper)\n\nThe Job is the official newspaper of London's Metropolitan Police Service.\n\nThe newspaper was first published on the 11 November 1967 and was initially published by the Public Relations Department of the Metropolitan Police. Up until March 2006, the paper was published every two weeks by Trident Communications, on behalf of the Metropolitan Police. In 2006, the contract to publish \"The Job\" was won by Square One Publishing.\n\nIt is now a free monthly magazine primarily intended for officers and police staff.\n\n"}
{"id": "1109974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1109974", "title": "Trademark attorney", "text": "Trademark attorney\n\nA trademark attorney (U.S. spelling) or trade mark attorney or agent (UK spelling) is a person who is qualified to act in matters involving trademark law and practice and provide legal advice on trade mark and design matters. \n\nIn many countries, most notably the United Kingdom, trade mark attorneys are a separate recognized legal profession, along with solicitors and barristers, and are recognized as lawyers under the Legal Services Act 2007. In other jurisdictions, such as the United States, the profession is less clearly defined, with trademark attorneys being part of the general legal profession. In other words, they are attorneys at law who specialize in trade mark matters. In many countries, trademark attorneys have rights of audience before intellectual property courts, and benefit from attorney–client privilege. Unless they are also members of the general legal profession, as they are in the United States, their right to appear in Court is usually limited to trademark matters.\n\nA trademark attorney frequently begins his or her career by joining a firm of trademark attorneys, or a firm of Intellectual Property attorneys with departments specializing in patent law, trademark law, and copyright law. Increasingly however, large multi-discipline law firms are establishing trademark practices. Trademark attorneys are also employed by large companies which have enough trademark interests to need an attorney just to deal with their own matters. \n\nThe responsibilities of a trademark attorney include advising on the adoption and selection of new trademarks; filing and prosecuting applications to register trademarks; advising on the use and registration of trademarks; handling trademark oppositions, revocations, invalidations and assignments; carry out searches; and advising on trademark infringement matters.\n\nTrademark attorneys are often regulated as a profession, in which case they must pass a series of examinations, comply with other requirements, and observe professional ethics and standards in order to maintain formal registration (under the \"Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988\" and \"Trade Marks Act 1994\" in the UK, for instance).\n\nThis is typically the position in Commonwealth jurisdictions such as Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, where only qualified individuals may hold themselves out as being trade mark attorneys. In such cases the qualification is known as an \"exclusive\" or \"protected\" title. The minimum educational requirements to enter the profession in such cases are GCSE A, B or C grade in five approved subjects, and GCE 'A' level in two approved subjects, or their equivalents. Candidates with certain degrees, such as law, may be eligible for exemption in some Foundation Papers of the qualifying examination (and will usually find it easier to find a job as a trainee).\n\nThere is no exclusive title in other jurisdictions such as the United States, where no specialized examinations are required in order to qualify and practice as a trademark attorney. In the United States, any attorney who is licensed to practice law in any state can represent individuals and companies in trademark matters before the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). This stems from the view that an attorney is capable of practicing law in any field with a minimum level of competence as shown by passing a state bar exam. \n\nIn the United States, any attorney who is licensed to practice law in any state can represent individuals and companies in the United States Trademark Office. Many trademark attorneys have undergraduate degrees in a variety of fields such as business administration, marketing, liberal arts rather than in the science or engineering field which a Patent Attorney must have in order to practice in the United States Patent Office. Furthermore, a patent attorney must pass a special exam in order to represent individuals and companies in the Patent Office while a trademark attorney does not. \nIn addition, the examiners who review all trademark applications filed with the Trademark Office are also licensed attorneys and their official title is Trademark Examining Attorney. They also do a trademark search of the federal trademark records to determine if the trademark applied for is confusingly similar to a registered or a prior pending application. So when one files a trademark application they will be dealing with an attorney not an office clerk. For that reason alone, it is wise for one to have a trademark attorney representing them in the prosecution of a trademark application.\n\nIn India a registered trademark agent or attorney can file and appear before the Trademark Examiner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35004629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35004629", "title": "Transmutation agreement", "text": "Transmutation agreement\n\nA transmutation agreement is a postnuptial agreement that changes the character of the spouses’ property from community to separate, or vice versa. It may be used to change the character of property to be acquired in the future, as well as property that the spouses own at the time of the agreement. Spouses are free to alter the character of property in this manner, provided that all statutory requirements are met. The principal limitation on transmutation agreements between spouses is that (i) they must be fair and based on full disclosure of the pertinent facts, and (ii) they must not be a fraudulent transfer of assets.\n\nWhile postnuptial agreements are generally subject to the same notice and recording rules as premarital agreements, the rules for transmutation agreements are slightly different. A transmutation of real property is not effective with respect to third parties who are without notice of the transmutation unless the transmutation instrument is recorded. While recording is not a prerequisite to the validity of the transmutation as between the spouses, it is a prerequisite in making the transmutation effective with respect to third parties who are otherwise without notice. This requirement is consistent with the fact that transmutations are subject to the laws governing fraudulent transfers.\n\nTransmutation agreements have certain tax implications. For income tax purposes, if spouses file a joint return, then characterization of property as community or separate is irrelevant, as all income is aggregated. However, if spouses file a separate return, then each spouse must report his or her one-half share of community income, and his or her separate income. Because transmutation agreements change the nature of the property (including earnings and other income), they have the greatest income tax impact on separate tax returns.\n\nTransfers of property between spouses are generally nonrecognition events for income tax purposes, as they are always considered to be gifts with carryover basis. There are a couple of exceptions: (i) transfer to a spouse who is a nonresident alien at the time of the transfer; (ii) transfer in trust, to the extent that the sum of the liabilities assumed, plus the liabilities to which the property is subject, exceeds the total adjusted basis of the property; or (iii) transfer in trust, of an installment obligation.\n\nThe more important tax aspect of a transmutation agreement is the effect that it has on basis step-up (or step-down) at death. If the spouses had held the property separately in joint tenancy with a right of survivorship, the surviving spouse would automatically receive his or her half of the property by operation of law through the original joint tenancy title, and not through inheritance or any other type of succession after death. Consequently, his or her basis would not be stepped up if the property has appreciated, but instead would remain at the original cost basis.\n\nThus, while transmutation agreements are generally desirable from an asset protection standpoint, they may have adverse tax consequences, because of the loss of one-half of basis step up. This can be offset by the fact that spouses may enter into a transmutation agreement at any time, during marriage. Accordingly, while the spouses are working or practicing their profession (and they are exposed to risks) they can enter into a transmutation agreement and transfer certain assets to the low-risk spouse. When the spouses retire and risks dissipate, the spouses can enter into another transmutation agreement and convert their separate property back to community, regaining the full step up.\n"}
{"id": "39836702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39836702", "title": "Treaty of Limits (Mexico–United States)", "text": "Treaty of Limits (Mexico–United States)\n\nThe Treaty of Limits between the United Mexican States and the United States of America is an 1828 treaty between Mexico and the United States that confirmed the borders between the two states. The Treaty of Limits was the first treaty concluded between the two countries.\n\nThe Treaty of Limits was concluded on 12 January 1828 at Mexico City. Joel Roberts Poinsett signed the treaty for the United States and Sebastián Camacho and José Ignacio Esteva for Mexico. The treaty recognized the Mexico–U.S. boundary that had been established by the 1819 Adams–Onís Treaty between Spain and the U.S.\n\nThe Treaty of Limits was ratified by Mexico and the U.S. and it entered into force on 5 April 1832. The treaty was amended in 1831 and again in 1835. After the Republic of Texas became independent from Mexico, the U.S. and Texas signed an 1838 treaty confirming the boundary from the Treaty of Limits.\n\nHowever, when the U.S. recognized the independence of the Republic of Texas in 1836, Mexico regarded it as a violation of the Treaty of Limits; this sentiment was made worse by the 1845 annexation of Texas, which led to the Mexican–American War. After the war, the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo established a new boundary between the two countries and thereby replaced the Treaty of Limits.\n\nIn \"United States v. Texas\" (), a case involving a dispute between Texas and the United States over Greer County, the United States Supreme Court held that the Adams–Onís Treaty and the Treaty of Limits, as accepted by the Republic of Texas, definitively set the boundary between Texas and the Oklahoma Territory of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "9565040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9565040", "title": "United States v. Sioux Nation of Indians", "text": "United States v. Sioux Nation of Indians\n\nUnited States v. Sioux Nation of Indians, 448 U.S. 371 (1980), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that: 1) the enactment by Congress of a law allowing the Sioux Nation to pursue a claim against the United States that had been previously adjudicated did not violate the doctrine of separation of powers; and 2) the taking of property that was set aside for the use of the tribe required just compensation, including interest.\n\nThe Fort Laramie Treaty of April 29, 1868, pledged that the Great Sioux Reservation, including the Black Hills, would be \"set apart for the absolute and undisturbed use and occupation of the Indians.\" By the terms of the treaty, cession of any part of the reservation required a new treaty executed and signed by at least three fourths of all the adult male Indians occupying the land. The Sioux's right to hunt in some unceded territories were protected by the Fort Laramie Treaty as well. The Fort Laramie Treaty ended the Powder River War of 1866–1867, a series of military engagements in which the Sioux tribes, led by chief Red Cloud, fought to protect the integrity of earlier-recognized treaty lands from the incursion of white settlers.\n\nThe 1868 treaty brought peace for a few years, but in 1874 an exploratory expedition under General George A. Custer entered the Black Hills to investigate rumors of gold. \"Custer's florid descriptions of the mineral and timber resources of the Black Hills, and the land's suitability for grazing and cultivation... received wide circulation, and had the effect of creating an intense popular demand for the 'opening' of the Hills for settlement.\" Initially the U.S. military tried to turn away trespassing miners and settlers. Eventually however President Grant, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Secretary of War, \"decided that the military should make no further resistance to the occupation of the Black Hills by miners.\" These orders were to be enforced \"quietly,\" and the President's decision was to remain \"confidential.\"\n\nAs more and more settlers and gold miners invaded the Black Hills the Government concluded that the only practical course was to take the land from the Sioux, and appointed a commission to negotiate the purchase. The negotiations failed, and so the US resorted to military force. They used as a pretext to declare the Sioux Indians \"hostile,\" their failure to obey an order to return from an off-reservation hunting expedition in the dead of winter when travel was impossible. The consequent military expedition to remove the Sioux from the Black Hills included an attack on their village on the Little Bighorn River led by General Custer. The attack culminated in the victory of Chiefs Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse over the 7th Cavalry Regiment now known as Custer's Last Stand.\n\nThat victory was short-lived. Those Indians who survived subsequent battles to surrender to the Army were interned on a reservation, and deprived of their weapons and horses, \"leaving them completely dependent for survival on rations provided them by the Government.\" In August 1876, Congress enacted a bill cutting off appropriations \"made for the subsistence\" of the Sioux, unless they ceded the Black Hills to the United States. A commission headed by George Manypenny presented the Sioux with a new treaty and they signed, under threat of starvation. But only a few leaders signed, not the 3/4 majority of all Indian males on the reservation as required under the Fort Laramie Treaty.\n\nAfter the \"Army's withdrawal from its role as enforcer of the Fort Laramie Treaty\" the previous year and its subsequent return to prepare for a military campaign against the Sioux, Bill S590 was introduced to authorize \"a peaceful settlement\" with the Sioux Nation for the Black Hills. A proposed \"five-member commission\" would have asked the Sioux Nation to relinquish the \"entire reservation\" given to them under the Fort Laramie Treaty. From most \"congressional and pioneer views\" this was the \"easy and practical method\" of securing the Blacks Hills.\n\nS590 was approved by the Senate with a vote of thirty to eight, with language that implied that the commission could acquire the entire reservation and relocate the Sioux. In the House Committee on Indian Affairs, it was amended to specify that \"nothing in this bill could be construed or twisted to allow for the removal of the Sioux Nation to Indian Territory.\" Peace efforts or \"attempts to purchase the Blacks hills\" could still proceed. Missourians praised the action since it would have kept the Sioux far from their borders.\n\nHowever, after the Battle of the Little Big Horn public opinion turned against the Sioux and congress refused to address the bill. When asked why, congressman Omar Dwight opined that congress felt the need to “find out whether the Sioux have captured all our army before we go treating with them.” \n\nS590 went on to die in committee and congress approved the Indian Appropriations Bill of 1876 instead. It “illegally denied the Sioux all further appropriation and treaty-guaranteed annuities” until they gave up the Black Hills.\n\nThe Sioux never accepted the legitimacy of the forced deprivation of their Black Hills reservation. In 1920 lobbyists for the Sioux persuaded Congress to authorize a lawsuit against the United States in U S Claims Court. The Sioux filed a petition in 1923, but the Claims Court dismissed the case in 1942, holding that the Court could not second guess whether their compensation under the 1877 Agreement reached by the Manypenny Commission - which served as the basis for the 1877 Act of Congress - was adequate. The Sioux (and many other tribes) continued lobbying Congress for a forum for their claims, and in 1946 Congress created an independent federal agency, the Indian Claims Commission, to \"hear and determine all tribal grievances\" including the Sioux claim.\n\nThe Sioux lost their first hearing before the Indian Claims Commission \"due to the failings of their former counsel,\" but on appeal to the U S Claims Court, the Court directed the Commission to take new evidence, which it did in 1958. Then ensued what the Supreme Court called \"a lengthy period of procedural sparring\" —1958 until 1972—when finally the Commission ruled in favor of the Sioux, awarding damages for the deprivation of the land, but not interest. On appeal the Government did not contest the Commission's holding that it had \"acquired the Black Hills through a course of unfair and dishonorable dealing for which the Sioux were entitled to damages.\" In effect the Government was disputing only whether the Sioux could collect 100 years' worth of interest. The Claims Court ruled that its previous 1942 dismissal of the Sioux Fifth Amendment taking case was \"res judicata\" (a case already decided), \"whether rightly or wrongly,\" thus denying the opportunity to seek 100 years' worth of interest.\n\nThe case returned to the Indian Claims Commission to determine minor leftover issues about the value of rights-of-way and government offsets. In the meantime, in 1978 Sioux lobbyists persuaded Congress to pass yet another law conferring authority on the Claims Court to hear the Sioux case, this time without regard to \"res judicata\". That meant the Sioux could re-litigate the claim as a Fifth Amendment taking, to collect 100 years' worth of interest. Finally, under its new authorizing statute, the Claims Court held the Sioux had suffered a taking cognizable under the Fifth Amendment, and were entitled to the value of the land as of the 1877 taking which was $17.1 million, the value of gold prospectors illegally took out of the land computed at $450,000, and 100 years' worth of interest at 5% per year which would be an additional $88 million.\n\nThis holding the Government appealed, and the U.S. Supreme Court granted its petition for certiorari.\n\nJustice Blackmun delivered the Court's opinion in which six other justices joined. Justice White concurred in part, and Justice Rehnquist dissented.\n\nThe first and the main issue in the case, was whether Congress transgressed against the separation of powers by directing the Claims Court to reconsider the Sioux claim, this time without regard to \"res judicata.\" The Supreme Court concluded Congress could indeed waive \"res judicata\" and resurrect an adjudicated claim against the government, under its constitutionally conferred power to \"pay the nation's debts,\" including \"moral debts.\"\n\nThe second issue was whether the Sioux had already received just compensation for their land, and the Court affirmed the Claims Court's decision that they never had. The Court recognized a tension between Congress's duty to serve as a benevolent trustee for Indians, and the power to take their land. \"Congress can own two hats, but it cannot wear them both at the same time,\" said the opinion. While reaffirming earlier decisions that Congress has \"paramount authority over the property of the Indians,\" the Court concluded that Congress acts properly only if it \"makes a good faith effort to give the Indians the full value of the land,\" which here it had failed to do. In conclusion the Supreme Court ordered \"just compensation to the Sioux Nation, and that obligation, including an award of interest, must now, at last, be paid.\"\n\nAssociate Justice William Rehnquist was the lone dissenter in this case. Rehnquist felt Congress overstepped the bounds of separation of powers by intruding upon the finality of a judicial decision when it \"reviewed a prior decision of an Art. III court, eviscerated the finality of that judgment, and ordered a new trial in a pending case.\" Rehnquist also disagreed that the initial Court of Claims decision in 1942 was wrong. He endorsed the view that the Sioux already had been adequately compensated for their land. Rehnquist's dissent suggests that it is \"quite unfair to judge by the light of 'revisionist' historians or the mores of another era actions that were taken under pressure of time more than a century ago.\"\n\nThe Sioux have declined to accept the money, because acceptance would legally terminate Sioux demands for return of the Black Hills. The money remains in a Bureau of Indian Affairs account accruing compound interest. the Sioux interest on their money has compounded to over 1 billion dollars.\n\nIn lieu of accepting the payment outlined in the court settlement, Sioux leaders created the Black Hills Steering Committee, a political group consisting of members from each Sioux tribe that coalesced around the shared goal of pressuring congress to enact legislation that would reestablish Sioux sovereignty over the Black Hills territory. Under the leadership of Gerald Clifford, the designated coordinator of legislative efforts, Sioux representatives spent two years negotiating the exact terms of their demands. The final legislative draft written by the Steering Committee called for the creation of a new reservation within the same territory acquired by the United States in 1877 that once constituted the Great Sioux Reservation, and totaled an approximate 7.3 million acres. However, the Sioux would only receive direct title over 1.2 million acres of federal land, as the State of South Dakota and private residents were permitted to retain ownership over their land. The legislation would also reestablish water and mineral rights to the Sioux in the reapportioned territory and restore tribal jurisdiction. It also included provisions that ensured the exemption of the territory under Sioux control from all federal, local, and state taxes.\n\nThe Steering Committee succeeded in bringing this legislation to congress when Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey signed on as a sponsor and introduced it on July 17, 1985. The new Sioux Nation Black Hills Act, or \"Bradley Bill\" as it was more commonly known, was staunchly opposed by the South Dakota delegation. The bill ultimately died in congress without ever being brought up for a vote.\n\nBradley tried to reintroduce the legislation in 1987, however, internal political divisions amongst the representatives on the Black Hills Steering Committee diffused the momentum behind it. Steering Committee member Red Cloud proposed that the new legislative effort be led by Phil Stevens, a businessman from California who claimed Sioux ancestry, instead of Clifford. Stevens claimed that the Bradley Bill was not sufficient and demanded in addition to the restoration of 1.3 million acres of territory, a sum of $3.1 billion in compensation and the guarantee of future rents on an additional 73 million acres that were included in the original Treaty of 1868 at a value of one dollar per acre to be paid each year. Stevens’ proposal earned him widespread support among many Sioux representatives, however, others in the Clifford camp were weary and criticized him for focusing too much on money rather than the return of Sioux land. Senator Bradley decided to hold back on the new bill until a resolution was reached for this internal dispute. Ultimately, Stevens proved unable to secure any congressional support behind his alternative proposal, and the momentum behind the initial push behind the Bradley Bill was lost.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2055958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2055958", "title": "Vibration white finger", "text": "Vibration white finger\n\nVibration white finger (VWF), also known as hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS) or dead finger, is a secondary form of Raynaud's syndrome, an industrial injury triggered by continuous use of vibrating hand-held machinery. Use of the term \"vibration white finger\" has generally been superseded in professional usage by broader concept of HAVS, although it is still used by the general public. The symptoms of vibrating white finger are the vascular component of HAVS.\n\nHAVS is a widespread recognized industrial disease affecting tens of thousands of workers. It is a disorder that affects the blood vessels, nerves, muscles, and joints, of the hand, wrist, and arm. Its best known effect is vibration-induced white finger (VWF), a term introduced by the Industrial Injury Advisory Council in 1970. Injury can occur at frequencies between 5 and 2000 Hz but the greatest risk for fingers is between 50 and 300 Hz. The total risk exposure for hand and arm is calculated by the use of ISO 5349-1, which stipulates maximum damage between 8–16 Hz and a rapidly declining risk at higher frequencies. The ISO 5349-1 frequency risk assessment does not match the estimated risks for vibration-induced white finger well.\n\nExcessive exposure to hand arm vibrations can result in various patterns of diseases casually known as HAVS or VWF. This can affect nerves, joints, muscles, blood vessels or connective tissues of the hand and forearm:\n\n\nIn extreme cases, the sufferer may lose fingers. The effects are cumulative. When symptoms first appear, they may disappear after a short time. If exposure to vibration continues over months or years, the symptoms can worsen and become permanent.\n\nThe symptoms were first described by Professor Giovanni Loriga in Italy in 1911, although the link was not made between the symptoms and vibrating hand tools until a study undertaken by Alice Hamilton MD in 1918. She formed her theory through following the symptoms reported by quarry cutters and carvers in Bedford, Indiana. She also discovered the link between an increase in HAV symptoms and cold weather as 1918 was a particularly harsh winter.\n\nThe first scale for assessing the condition, the Taylor-Pelmear scale, was published in 1975, but it was not listed as a prescribed disease in the United Kingdom until 1985, and the Stockholm scale was introduced in 1987. In 1997, the UK High Court awarded £127,000 in compensation to seven coal miners for vibration white finger. A UK government fund set up to cover subsequent claims by ex-coalminers had exceeded £100 million in payments by 2004.\n\nThe Control of Vibration at Work Regulations 2005, created under the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974. is the legislation in the UK that governs exposure to vibration and assists with preventing HAVS occurring.\n\nGood practice in industrial health and safety management requires that worker vibration exposure is assessed in terms of acceleration, amplitude, and duration. Using a tool that vibrates slightly for a long time can be as damaging as using a heavily vibrating tool for a short time. The duration of use of the tool is measured as trigger time, the period when the worker actually has their finger on the trigger to make the tool run, and is typically quoted in hours per day. Vibration amplitude is quoted in metres per second squared, and is measured by an accelerometer on the tool or given by the manufacturer. Amplitudes can vary significantly with tool design, condition and style of use, even for the same type of tool.\n\nIn the UK, Health and Safety Executive gives the example of a hammer drill which can vary from 6m/s² to 25m/s². HSE publishes a list of typically observed vibration levels for various tools, and graphs of how long each day a worker can be exposed to particular vibration levels. This makes managing the risk relatively straightforward. Tools are given an Exposure Action Value (EAV, the time which a tool can be used before action needs to be taken to reduce vibration exposure) and an Exposure Limit Value (ELV, the time after which a tool may not be used).\n\nIn the United States, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health published a similar database where values for sound power and vibrations for commonly found tools from large commercial vendors in the United States were surveyed. Further testing is underway for more and newer tools.\n\nThe effect of legislation in various countries on worker vibration limits has been to oblige equipment providers to develop better-designed, better-maintained tools, and for employers to train workers appropriately. It also drives tool designers to innovate to reduce vibration. Some examples are the easily manipulated mechanical arm (EMMA) and the suspension mechanism designed into chainsaws.\n\nAnti vibration gloves are traditionally made with a thick and soft palm material to insulate from the vibrations. The protection is highly dependent on frequency range, most gloves provide no protection in palm and wrist below ~50Hz and in fingers below ~400Hz. Factors such as high grip force, cold hands or vibration forces in shear direction can have a reducing effect and or increase damage to the hands and arms. Gloves do help to keep hands warm but to get the desired effect, the frequency output from the tool must match the properties of the vibration glove that is selected. Anti Vibration gloves in many cases amplify the vibrations at frequencies lower than those mentioned in the text above.\n\nA simpler system, known as re-active monitoring, may be used by, for example, monitoring rates of usage of consumable items. Such a system was introduced by Carl West at a fabrication workshop in Rotherham, England. In this system, the vibration levels of the angle grinding tools in use was measured, as was the average life of a grinding disk. Thus by recording numbers of grinding disks used, vibration exposure may be calculated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11493664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11493664", "title": "William F. Patry", "text": "William F. Patry\n\nWilliam F. Patry (born January 1, 1950 in Niskayuna, New York) is an American lawyer specializing in copyright law. He studied at the San Francisco State University, where he obtained a B.A. in 1974 and an M.A. in 1976, and then at the University of Houston, where he graduated with a J.D. in 1980. He was admitted to the bar in Texas in 1981, in the District of Columbia in 2000, and in New York in 2001.\n\nPatry served as a copyright counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives in the early 1990s, where he participated in the elaboration of the copyright provisions of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act. Patry also worked as a policy planning advisor to the Register of Copyrights, and held a post as Professor of Law at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law. He is also the author of an eight volume treatise on U.S. copyright law entitled \"Patry on Copyright\". Patry is Senior Copyright Counsel at Google.\n\nOn August 1, 2008, Patry announced the termination of his blog, giving as reasons both the unwillingness of too many people to treat it as the personal blog that it was and the sad state of copyright law.\n\nIn 2009 he published \"Moral Panics and the Copyright Wars\", and temporarily resumed blogging in support of the book.\n\nBooks:\n\n\nPapers:\n\n\n\n\n"}
