{"id": "44225639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44225639", "title": "Akiva Aryeh Weiss", "text": "Akiva Aryeh Weiss\n\nAkiva Arieh Weiss, also spelled Aryeh (1868-1947), was the initiator and founder of a Jewish settlement, Ahuzat Bayit, established in 1909 in Ottoman Palestine, which grew to become \"the first Hebrew city\", Tel Aviv, today Israel's main economic hub.\n\nWeiss, a jeweler and watchmaker, was born in the Russian Empire. He immigrated from Russian Poland to Palestine in 1906.\n\nAs president of the then newly established building cooperative named simply \"Ahuzat Bayit\", Hebrew for Building Society, Weiss presided over the 1909 real estate lottery in which 66 Jewish families drew numbers written on seashells to determine the allocation of lots in the about-to-be established city of Tel Aviv.\n\nWeiss was a founder of the textile industry in Mandatory Palestine, and built the earliest textile factory, the Lodzia House.\n\nOne of Weiss' visions which became reality was the establishment of a Jewish diamond industry in Palestine.\n\nThe cornerstone of Weiss's Tel Aviv house at #2 Herzl Street was laid in 1909. Originally a single-story structure, the upper floor was added in the 1920s. The house was restored between 1996 and 2011.\n"}
{"id": "13603220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13603220", "title": "Albert Kookesh", "text": "Albert Kookesh\n\nAlbert Matthew Kookesh, Jr. (born 1948) is a former member of the Alaska Senate. He represented District C as a Democrat from 2005 through January 2013. Previously he was a member of the Alaska House of Representatives from 1997 through 2005.\n\nKookesh received his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Washington in 1976 and is a commercial fisherman, also owning and operating a lodge and market. He is on the board of directors of the Sealaska Corporation and is a co-chair of the Alaska Federation of Natives. His earlier professional positions included Business Manager, Executive VP, and Acting President/CEO for Kootznoowoo Inc.\n\nIn 2010 a legislative review found Kookesh to be in violation of state ethics policies following allegations that he used political influence to keep a city council from opposing a lands bill pushed by the Native corporation by which he is employed. He lost the 2012 election to fellow incumbent Bert Stedman after the Alaska Redistricting Board placed him in a district that was vastly different from his former bush district.\n\n"}
{"id": "39890996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39890996", "title": "Alikhan Shavayev", "text": "Alikhan Shavayev\n\nAlikhan Aslanovich Shavayev (; born 5 January 1993) is a Russian football midfielder who currently plays as central midfielder for FC Baltika Kaliningrad.\n\nHe made his debut in the Russian National Football League for PFC Spartak Nalchik on 6 August 2012 in a game against FC Ural Sverdlovsk Oblast.\n\nHe is the younger brother of Amirkhan Shavayev.\n\n"}
{"id": "41438129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41438129", "title": "Appachu Ranjan", "text": "Appachu Ranjan\n\nM. P Appachu Ranjan (born 11 September 1957) is an Indian politician who was the Former Minister for Youth Services and Sports in Karnataka, a state in Southern India. He is a leader of the BJP in Karnataka and a fifth time Member of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly from Madikeri Constituency in Kodagu district, Karnataka. He belongs to the Kodava Hindu community.\n\nMandepanda Poovaiah Appachu Ranjan was born on 11 September 1957 in a village called Chembebellur in Virajpet Taluk of Kodagu District. His parents were Poovaiah and Kamavva of the Mandepanda family. He completed his Pre-University College education and Bachelor of Arts from Vivekananda College, Puttur. He is married to Shyla Appachu and has 2 sons and a daughter. A good sportsman, Ranjan was the member of college hockey and football teams. In 1997, he won the best sportsman award in a sports tourney organised for South Indian MLAs.\n\nHe entered politics in the year of 1978 as a member of the then Janatha Party and after being active in public life as the member of the Kumbur School Development Management Committee, president of the Madapur VSSSN, correspondent of the Chennamma Junior College in Madapur, director of the Kodagu District Coffee Growers Society in Madikeri, member of the Kushalnagar APMC, he was formally elected as a mandal panchayat member. He held various posts over the years amassing immense experience in the field of managing Co-operative and Agricultural organizations.\n\nMr. Ranjan’s major foray into politics came in 1980 when he was elected president of the BJP youth wing in Madapur. He occupied the post of the Somwarpet taluk BJP president from 1986 to 1991 and later served as the president of the Kodagu BJP unit from 1991 to 1995. It was during his tenure that the BJP stormed the Congress bastion in Kodagu to win all three Assembly segments, others being D.S. Madappa (Madikeri) and H.D. Basavaraj (Virajpet). Somwarpet constituency was done away with during the delimitation after which Kodagu was reduced to Madikeri and Virajpet constituencies.\n\nMr. Ranjan won the Assembly elections for the first time from Somwarpet in 1994 serving till 1999. He won again for the second time from the same constituency in 1999 to stay till 2004. However, he lost to B.A. Jivijaya of the Congress (now with JD(S)) in the next election (2004). Mr. Ranjan came back in the 2008 elections winning from Madikeri constituency. He once again retained the seat by a margin of 4629 votes in 2012 despite an Anti-Incumbency wave against the BJP in the state. He retained the seat again in 2018 by winning by a margin of 16015 votes. Thus he has been elected five times as MLA, thrice from Madikeri and twice from Somwarpet.\n\nHe rose to prominence by being the chairman of the Privilege Committee and Petition Committee of the legislature. He served as the chairman of the Karnataka State Sports Authority in 2008 as also Karnataka Land Army Corporation Limited in the same year. Mr. Ranjan is a member of the State BJP Executive Committee and was in charge of Mysore division. In 2012, he was inducted as Cabinet Minister for Youth Services and Sports in Jagadish Shettar’s cabinet and was made the District in-charge minister of Kodagu District. Another highlighted feature of his political career is Hadi Vasthavya in 2011; he became the first M.L.A of Karnataka to stay in forest-covered areas and remote villages to understand and solve the issues of people living in highly backward regions. He stayed in Balegundi ST Colony, Taluk SC Colony ChikkaBandara, and in a remote village in Kothnalli.\n\nHe headed the joint house committee to probe into the ruckus created by some of the Opposition members during the trust vote of the BJP government on October 11, 2010 was set up by the then House Speaker K.G.Bopaiah. In its 287-page report tabled in the House, the panel headed by him recommended suspension of Rahim Khan, Kakaso Panduranga Patil, U T Khader, N A Harris, (all Congress) B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, H C Balakrishna, C S Puttaraju, M T Krishnappa (all JD-S) for one year. It recommended suspension of B K Sangamesh, Suresh Gowda, P M Ashok, H P Manjunath, (all Congress), Bandeppa Kashempur, K Raju and K P Bache Gowda (all JD-S) for six months. It was a controversial recommendation and created a standoff in the Assembly. It is one of the few house committees that dewelled into indiscipline in a State Assembly.\n\nHe was inducted into Jagadish Shettars cabinet as Minister for Youth Services and Sports on July 12, 2012. He was instrumental in drafting the Youth policy and recommending the Sports policy. Vivekanada Youth Policy was unveiled for the first time and various youth retreat center were established. As Sports Minister, Karnataka ‘s highest sportsperson award “the Ekalayva award” was changed to be given on the basis of marks and merit rather than recommendation. As District Incharge Minister of Kodagu, his top priority was in Health, Education, Road & Transports, House for the Homeless and Environment. During his tenure, Government permissions were given to Engineering College in Kushalnagar, Sainik School in Kudige, Mangalore University Branch in Aluvara, Kushalnagar, and a Medical College was recommended as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "3179641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3179641", "title": "Audrey Santo", "text": "Audrey Santo\n\nAudrey Marie Santo (December 19, 1983 – April 14, 2007), often referred to as Little Audrey, was an American young woman from Worcester, Massachusetts through whom miracles were said to have happened after she suffered severe brain damage in a near-drowning accident.\n\nAudrey Santo was the youngest of four children born to Linda and Steve Santo. On August 9, 1987, three-year-old Audrey was playing outside in the driveway with her four-year-old brother Stephen. When Stephen came inside alone, Linda and her twelve-year-old son, Matthew, went to look for Audrey and found her face down in the backyard swimming pool. Matthew dived in and pulled Audrey from the pool, and she was rushed to the hospital.\n\nAudrey remained in a coma for about three weeks, in intensive care. According to Linda Santo, doctors recommended she be placed in an institution, but the family wanted her at home. In November, almost four months following the accident, Audrey was brought home.\n\nAudrey's father Steve Santo left the family during the weeks after the accident. He returned years later, only to leave again.\n\nOnce she returned home, Audrey required 24-hour nursing care, provided by her devoted family and a team of nurses provided by the Massachusetts Commission for the Blind. She breathed through a ventilator and was on a feeding tube for sustenance, taking only communion wafers by mouth.\n\nAudrey's family contended that she was in a state called akinetic mutism — unable to speak and with limited movement, but fully alert and awake. However, Edward Kaye, the pediatric neurologist who treated her for eight years following the accident, told a \"Washington Post\" reporter that \"the cell death is about as bad as you can get and still be alive. Her EEGs are profoundly abnormal. She has brain stem activity, but very, very little above the brain stem.\" A coma specialist, Ed Cooper, brought in by Linda Santo to help Audrey communicate with her hands, told CBS's \"48 Hours\" in 1999, \"If she can become consistent with movements of her hands, down for 'yes,' up for 'no,' or vice versa, it would be meaningful. Right now it's inconsistent.\"\n\nThe Santo family is Catholic. About a year after the accident, Linda took Audrey to Međugorje, a popular pilgrimage site in the then Yugoslavia, where the Virgin Mary is said to have appeared periodically to six local Catholics since 1981. This was a difficult and expensive journey with an incapacitated four-year-old child, but Linda believed it would result in Audrey being healed, even bringing a pair of sandals for Audrey to use once she was restored to health.\n\nAudrey was present at one of the alleged apparitions. According to her mother, she seemed to be aware, and nodded her head as if to say 'yes'. Linda states that Audrey communicated directly with the Virgin Mary and agreed to become a victim soul. In Catholic popular spirituality, a \"victim soul\" is someone who willingly takes on the suffering of others.\n\nAudrey subsequently went into cardiac arrest and almost died, requiring a medical evacuation back to the United States. Her mother interpreted the child's heart failure as due to the apparition site's proximity to \"the biggest abortion clinic in Yugoslavia\".\n\nAfter the family returned from Međugorje, numerous miracles were purported to have occurred in Audrey's bedroom and within the house. The claimed miracles in Audrey's home included icons weeping blood or oil, a bleeding statue of Jesus, blood appearing spontaneously in a tabernacle and on consecrated communion wafers, oil dripping down the walls of the garage, and the Virgin Mary appearing in cloud formations overhead. Linda Santo and a nurse have also claimed that Audrey sometimes bore the stigmata, although this has never been shown in a photograph. Miraculous healings were attributed to Audrey and people with various diseases or injuries claim to have been cured either by visiting Audrey's house or by intercessory prayer offered by others at Audrey's house.\n\nAs word spread about Audrey, hundreds of visitors began coming to pray for healing near Audrey's bedside. Eventually, the family set up visiting hours and built a window in Audrey's bedroom wall through which visitors could view her. The window was later removed by order of the bishop. Audrey was also on several occasions taken to a nearby college stadium or a large church, for a mass at which she could be viewed by the public.\n\nStarting with one painting, and spreading to include many paintings and icons within the home, oil was said to exude from many objects near Audrey, and to spontaneously fill containers. No one ever claimed to have seen the moment of onset of such an event, only the already-oiled item. The oil was collected in cups and given to visitors on cotton balls.\n\nA test commissioned by \"The Washington Post\" from Microbac Laboratories of Pittsburgh found that sample contained 80 percent corn or soybean oil, and 20 percent chicken fat. Another test done by \"20/20\" found a sample of the oil to be 75% olive oil, and other tests found different or inconclusive results. Linda Santo agreed in response to a reporter's questioning that it was impossible to prove someone did not apply the oil to the statues, but insisted that she had not done so.\n\nDuring several masses at which Audrey was present, what seemed to be human blood appeared on consecrated communion wafers, or \"hosts,\" although as with the oil no one claims they saw the moment the blood appeared. A substance that appeared to be blood also appeared in a chalice at the Santo home, and a statue of Mary appeared to cry blood.\n\nThere have been no published accounts of tests on the blood. In the \"Washington Post\" story, the reporter says that Audrey's pediatrician, John Harding, intended to examine the blood-smeared communion wafer under a microscope but felt that would be blasphemous and decided to use a magnifying glass instead. No findings from this examination are mentioned. In the same story, Linda Santo is quoted as saying, \"'If there weren't four bleeding hosts,' she asks, 'if there was just a child in a bed, would anyone pay attention to this?'\"\n\nMany people have claimed that visiting Audrey, praying for her intercession, or having others pray or visit on their behalf has resulted in miraculous healing, including Joey Parolisi of Methuen, Massachusetts who claims his mother's prayer at Audrey's bedside healed his injury, although his physician stated that Joey had always had a 75% chance of recovering. A Rhode Island mother also claims that an intercessory prayer to Audrey saved her choking daughter. A woman with metastatic breast cancer, Andrea Pearson attributed her improvement to Audrey, although her oncologist attributed the improvement to a medication she had just started taking; Pearson's cancer later spread to the brain.\n\nAudrey once had a rash similar to a rash usually experienced by those undergoing chemotherapy for cancer, although Audrey never underwent such therapy. Those around her believed this was evidence that, as a \"victim soul\", she had taken on the suffering of some visitor with cancer.\n\nIn 1999, the Bishop of Worcester at the time, Daniel P. Reilly, released his preliminary findings on the case. In that report, the Bishop said that \"The most striking evidence of the presence of God in the Santo home is seen in the dedication of the family to Audrey.\"\n\nAs for the purported miracles, he said \"I want to underscore that any paranormal occurrences are not miraculous in and of themselves\".\n\nHe also stated in regard to the claim that Audrey was a purported \"Victim Soul\", \"We must proceed quite cautiously here, since this term is not commonly used by the Church except for Christ himself who became the victim for our sins and transgressions on the cross.\" The report further states that \"The term \"victim soul\" is not an official term in the Church. It was used in some circles in the 18th and 19th century when there was a fascination with suffering and death.\"\n\nAnd with regard to the many pilgrims who were praying to Audrey while she was still alive, he said \"praying to Audrey is not acceptable in Catholic teaching.\" Further, it was stated that \"One should only pray for Audrey. Our faith teaches us to pray to God and to pray for the intercession of the saints. Therefore, the distribution of a \"Prayer to Audrey\" should cease immediately.\"\n\nIn the case of the purported miracle oil, his report stated: \"We must be careful not to identify this oil as \"holy oil,\" which could be used to anoint a person. The Sacrament of the Anointing of the Sick, which can only be celebrated by a priest or bishop, uses oil blessed by the bishop at the Mass of Chrism, and is given to those who are seriously ill.\"\n\nWhile the Bishop's report does not confirm any of the alleged miracles and cautions against some of the beliefs being promoted, it had nothing but praise for the care Audrey had received from her family. The bishop lauded the \"excellent care the family gives to their daughter. This has manifested itself in her physical condition, for example, she has not apparently had bedsores in the eleven years she has been confined to her bed.\" He celebrated their \"constant love and devotion to their daughter is a miracle in the broad sense of the word. They have always recognized the human dignity of their daughter, despite the circumstances.\"\n\nAbove quotes taken from the \"Diocese Issues Interim Findings on Miraculous Claims, Statement by Most Rev. Daniel P. Reilly, Bishop of Worcester\".\n\nA nonprofit foundation is pursuing the process of sainthood for Audrey. The Bishop of Worcester, Robert J. McManus, gave official recognition to the foundation, allowing them to present their application to the Vatican, while remaining neutral himself as to whether Audrey should be a saint.\n\nBeatification and canonization will require at least two fully documented and authenticated miracles. The board of directors of the Audrey Santo Foundation asked in a web update on August 12, 2013 that \"if anyone has specific knowledge of any such miracles, they must come forward [so] that the proper protocol is followed.\"\n\nWhether or not her healing miracles are real, she herself did not receive any such healing, and was bedridden and unable to talk or move until her death on April 14, 2007 from cardio-respiratory failure. Family, friends and clergy were at her side. The vigil was held April 17, 2007 and the funeral mass on April 18, 2007, both at St. Paul's Cathedral in Worcester, Massachusetts. The public was allowed to attend these two events, but the burial was private.\n\n"}
{"id": "200734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200734", "title": "Bell hooks", "text": "Bell hooks\n\nGloria Jean Watkins (born September 25, 1952), better known by her pen name bell hooks, is an American author, feminist, and social activist. The name \"bell hooks\" is derived from that of her maternal great-grandmother, Bell Blair Hooks.\n\nThe focus of hooks' writing has been the intersectionality of race, capitalism, and gender, and what she describes as their ability to produce and perpetuate systems of oppression and class domination. She has published over 30 books and numerous scholarly articles, appeared in documentary films, and participated in public lectures. She has addressed race, class, and gender in education, art, history, sexuality, mass media, and feminism.\n\nIn 2014, she founded the bell hooks Institute at Berea College in Berea, Kentucky.\n\nhooks was born in Hopkinsville, a small, segregated town in Kentucky, to a working-class family. Her father, Veodis Watkins, was a custodian and her mother, Rosa Bell Watkins, was a homemaker. She had five sisters and one brother. An avid reader, she was educated in racially segregated public schools, and wrote of great adversities when making the transition to an integrated school, where teachers and students were predominantly white. She later graduated from Hopkinsville High School in Hopkinsville, Kentucky. She obtained her BA in English from Stanford University in 1973, and her MA in English from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1976.\n\nIn 1983, after several years of teaching and writing, she completed her doctorate in literature at the University of California, Santa Cruz, with a dissertation on author Toni Morrison.\n\nhooks' teaching career began in 1976 as an English professor and senior lecturer in Ethnic Studies at the University of Southern California. During her three years there, Golemics, a Los Angeles publisher, released her first published work, a chapbook of poems titled \"And There We Wept\" (1978), written under her pen name, \"bell hooks\". She adopted her maternal great-grandmother's name as a pen name because her great-grandmother \"was known for her snappy and bold tongue, which [she] greatly admired\". She put the name in lowercase letters \"to distinguish [herself from] her great-grandmother.\" She said that her unconventional lowercasing of her name signifies what is most important is her works: the \"substance of books, not who I am.\"\n\nShe taught at several post-secondary institutions in the early 1980s and 1990s, including the University of California, Santa Cruz, San Francisco State University, Yale, Oberlin College and City College of New York. South End Press published her first major work, \"Ain't I a Woman?: Black Women and Feminism\" in 1981, though it was written years earlier, while she was an undergraduate student. In the decades since its publication, \"Ain't I a Woman?\" has gained widespread recognition as an influential contribution to feminist thought.\n\n\"Ain't I a Woman?\" examines several recurring themes in her later work: the historical impact of sexism and racism on black women, devaluation of black womanhood, media roles and portrayal, the education system, the idea of a white-supremacist-capitalist-patriarchy, the marginalization of black women, and the disregard for issues of race and class within feminism. Since the publication of \"Ain't I a Woman?\", she has become eminent as a leftist and postmodern political thinker and cultural critic. She targets and appeals to a broad audience by presenting her work in a variety of media using various writing and speaking styles. As well as having written books, she has published in numerous scholarly and mainstream magazines, lectures at widely accessible venues, and appears in various documentaries.She is frequently cited by feminists as having provided the best solution to the difficulty of defining something as diverse as \"feminism\", addressing the problem that if feminism can mean everything, it means nothing. She asserts an answer to the question \"what is feminism?\" that she says is \"rooted in neither fear nor fantasy... 'Feminism is a movement to end sexism, sexist exploitation and oppression.\n\nShe has published more than 30 books, ranging in topics from black men, patriarchy, and masculinity to self-help, engaged pedagogy to personal memoirs, and sexuality (in regards to feminism and politics of aesthetic/visual culture). A prevalent theme in her most recent writing is the community and communion, the ability of loving communities to overcome race, class, and gender inequalities. In three conventional books and four children's books, she suggests that communication and literacy (the ability to read, write, and think critically) are crucial to developing healthy communities and relationships that are not marred by race, class, or gender inequalities.\n\nShe has held positions as Professor of African-American Studies and English at Yale University, Associate Professor of Women's Studies and American Literature at Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio, and as Distinguished Lecturer of English Literature at the City College of New York.\n\nIn 2002, hooks gave a commencement speech at Southwestern University. Eschewing the congratulatory mode of traditional commencement speeches, she spoke against what she saw as government-sanctioned violence and oppression, and admonished students who she believed went along with such practices. This was followed by a controversy described in the \"Austin Chronicle\" after an \"irate Arizonian\" had criticized the speech in a letter to the editor. The newspaper reported that many in the audience booed the speech, though \"several graduates passed over the provost to shake her hand or give her a hug\".\n\nIn 2004, she joined Berea College in Berea, Kentucky, as Distinguished Professor in Residence, where she participated in a weekly feminist discussion group, \"Monday Night Feminism\"; a luncheon lecture series, \"Peanut Butter and Gender\"; and a seminar, \"Building Beloved Community: The Practice of Impartial Love\".\n\nHer 2008 book, \"belonging: a culture of place\", includes a candid interview with author Wendell Berry as well as a discussion of her move back to Kentucky.\n\nShe has undertaken three scholar-in-residences at The New School. Mostly recently she did one for a week in October 2014. She engaged in public dialogues with Gloria Steinem, Laverne Cox, and Cornel West.\n\nThose who have influenced hooks include African-American abolitionist and feminist Sojourner Truth (whose speech \"Ain't I a Woman?\" inspired her first major work), Brazilian educator Paulo Freire (whose perspectives on education she embraces in her theory of engaged pedagogy), Peruvian theologian and Dominican priest Gustavo Gutiérrez, psychologist Erich Fromm, playwright Lorraine Hansberry, Buddhist monk Thich Nhat Hanh, African-American writer James Baldwin, Guyanese historian Walter Rodney, African-American black nationalist leader Malcolm X, and African-American civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. (who addresses how the strength of love unites communities). hooks says of Martin Luther King Jr.'s notion of a beloved community, \"He had a profound awareness that the people involved in oppressive institutions will not change from the logics and practices of domination without engagement with those who are striving for a better way.\"\n\nIn her 1994 book \"Teaching to Transgress: Education as the Practice of Freedom,\" hooks writes about a transgressive approach in education where educators can teach students to \"transgress\" against racial, sexual, and class boundaries in order to achieve the gift of freedom. To educate as the practice of freedom, bell hooks describes it as \"a way of teaching in which anyone can learn.\" Hooks combines her practical knowledge and personal experiences of the classroom with feminist thinking and critical pedagogy. Hooks investigates the classroom as a source of constraint but also a potential source of liberation. She argues that teachers' use of control and power over students dulls the students' enthusiasm and teaches obedience to authority, \"confin[ing] each pupil to a rote, assembly-line approach to learning.\" She advocates that universities should encourage students and teachers to transgress, and seeks ways to use collaboration to make learning more relaxing and exciting. She describes teaching as a performative act and teachers as catalysts that invite everyone to become more engaged and activated. Performative aspect of learning \"offers the space for change, invention, spontaneous shifts, that can serve as a catalyst drawing out the unique elements in each classroom.\" Hooks also dedicated a chapter of the book to Paulo Freire, written in a form of a playful dialogue between herself, Gloria Watkins and her writing voice, bell hooks. In the last chapter of the book, hooks raised the critical question of eros or the erotic in classrooms environment. According to hooks, eros and the erotics do not need to be denied for learning to take place. She argues that one of the central tenets of feminist pedagogy has been to subvert the mind-body dualism and allow oneself as a teacher to be whole in the classroom, and as a consequence wholehearted.\n\nIn 2004, ten years after the success of Teaching to Transgress, bell hooks published \"Teaching Community: A Pedagogy of Hope\". In this book, hooks offers advice about how to continue to make the classroom a place that is life-sustaining and mind expanding, a place of liberating mutuality where teacher and student together work in partnership. Hooks writes that education as a practice of freedom enable us to confront feelings of loss and restore our sense of connections and consequently teaches us how to create community. Hooks locates hope in places of struggle where she witnessed individuals positively transforming their lives and the world around them. For hooks educating is always a vocation rooted in hopefulness.\n\nAfter many disputes with ex-boyfriends about the nature of love, bell hooks published \"\" in 2000. She explains how her past two long-term boyfriends were foiled by \"patriarchal thinking\" and sexist gender roles, so neither relationship ever really had a chance. She continuously wanted to recommend a book for the men to read, but could not find one that would clearly make her point to support her argument. For this reason, she decided to write her own, which would go into depth about her true feelings towards love.\nIn this book, hooks combines her personal life experiences, along with philosophical and psychological ideas, to shape her thesis and discuss her main concepts. She criticizes the way in which love is used in today's society. To further explain, how we use the word without much meaning, when referring to how much we like or enjoy our favorite ice cream, color, or game. Hooks is very disturbed by the fact that our culture has lost the true meaning of love, and believes it is because we have no shared definition. For this reason, the first chapter of her book primarily focuses on what she thinks the definition of love is, which she explains includes components such as care, affection, trust, respect, honesty, communication, and commitment. She proposes that if we all came to the agreement that love is a verb rather than a noun, then we would all be happier. Hooks believes love is more of an interactive process. It is not about what we just feel, but more about what we do. She states, \"So many people think that it's enough to say what they feel, even if their actions do not correspond to what they are feeling\". Bell hooks strongly clarifies why society needs to adopt a universal definition of love.\n\nbell hooks began her book with a series of spiritual messages, which include biblical verses to support her definition of love. She claims that a standard definition of love must include spiritual growth for one's self and others. Although she refers to biblical messages, she does not promote religion in her book; on the contrary, she encourages spiritual thinking. Hooks identifies flaws with relationships nowadays since there is a loose understanding about love. She shares personal experiences about fearing rejection and emotional pain. As a result, she acknowledges lacking full commitment and expressing vulnerability because of the fear of not receiving those things in return, so giving care and affection are the minimal expectations she had in her relationships. However, those love components were not enough. Hooks introduces the necessity of practicing self-love and care to sustain healthy relationship with a concrete understanding of love.\n\nOverall, this book sheds some light on what hooks sees as the modern day abandonment of love and what it means for people of today to experience love. One argument she proposes is how love cannot exist in the middle of a power struggle. Hooks goes as far as to present a number of problems she finds with our modern ideals of love and proposes their possible solutions. She includes the propositions of full reconstruction and transformation of modern-day love based on \"affection, respect, recognition, commitment, trust and care\" (Nonfiction Book Review). Hooks also points out what she sees to be the roots of the problems regarding modern day love, those being gender stereotypes, domination, control, ego, and aggression (Nonfiction Book Review).\n\nAnother argument hooks discusses is one in which she describes how starting from a very young age, boys and girls are constantly being knocked down and told to fit into the tiny boxes of characteristics that are expected of them. Hooks points out that the boy is denied his right to show, or even have, any true feelings. To further explain, she uses men in the American culture as an example, and describes how they have been socialized to mistrust the value and power of love. While the girl is taught that the most important thing she can do is change herself and her own feelings, with the hopes of attracting and pleasing everyone else. These unfair expectations lead boys and girls to grow up into men and women who are convinced that lies are the way to go, and no one should be showing their truest feelings to each other. This leads to the paradox hooks points out because in order to have a functional, and healthy loving relationship, honesty is a natural requirement. In bell hooks's own words, \"Lies may make people feel better, but they do not help them to know love\". Another central argument in hooks's \"All About Love\" is the way in which it is almost impossible for women to find happiness in what she sees as a brutal culture where men are taught to worry more about sexual satisfaction and performance than actually loving someone. This reality pointed out by hooks, paired with the fact that women focus so strongly on obtaining themselves a partner, leads to most relationships being completely one sided. In this case, the men are emotionally satisfied, and the women are left without any true happiness. Hooks points out that despite these evident problems in modern-day love culture, love can be revived, and this is what she is arguing throughout her book.\n\nBell hooks wrote this book to inform the world how we can change the way we think about love, our culture, and one another. She teaches us ways to love in a face of a planet of love-lessness. Her New Visions demonstrate how love is possible, and stress that all love is important—romantic, friendship, our love of strangers, and community.\n\nNoting a lack of diverse voices in popular feminist theory, bell hooks published the book \"\" in 1984. In this book, she argues that those voices have been marginalized, and states: \"To be in the margin is to be part of the whole but outside the main body.\" Hooks argued that if feminism seeks to make women equal to men, then it is impossible because in Western society, not all men are equal. She claimed, \"Women in lower class and poor groups, particularly those who are non-white, would not have defined women's liberation as women gaining social equality with men since they are continually reminded in their everyday lives that all women do not share a common social status.\"\n\nShe used the work as a platform to offer a new, more inclusive feminist theory. Her theory encouraged the long-standing idea of sisterhood but advocated for women to acknowledge their differences while still accepting each other. Hooks challenged feminists to consider gender's relation to race, class, and sex, a concept known as intersectionality. She also argues for the importance of male involvement in the equality movement, stating that, in order for change to occur, men must do their part. Hooks also calls for a restructuring of the cultural framework of power, one that does not find oppression of others necessary.\n\nPart of this restructuring involves allowing men into the feminist movement, so that there is not a separationist ideology, so much as an incorporating camaraderie. Additionally, she shows great appreciation for the movement away from feminist thought as led by bourgeois white women, and towards a multidimensional gathering of both genders to fight for the raising up of women. This shifts the original focus of feminism away from victimization, and towards harboring understanding, appreciation, and tolerance for all genders and sexes so that all are in control of their own destinies, uncontrolled by patriarchal, capitalist tyrants.\n\nAnother part of restructuring the movement comes from education; bell hooks points out that there is an anti-intellectual stigma among the masses. Poor people do not want to hear from intellectuals because they are different and have different ideas. As bell hooks points out though, this stigma against intellectuals leads to poor people who have risen up to become graduates of post secondary education, to be shunned because they are no longer like the rest of the masses. In order for us to achieve equality, people must be able to learn from those who have been able to smash these stereotypes. This separation leads to further inequality and in order for the feminist movement to succeed, they must be able to bridge the education gap and relate to those in the lower end of the economic sphere. If they are able to do this, then there will be more success and less inequality.\n\nIn \"Rethinking The Nature of Work\", bell hooks goes beyond discussing work and raises a pertinent question that feminists may need to ask themselves. \"Many Women active in feminist movement do not have radical political perspectives and are unwilling to face these realities, especially when they, as individuals, gain economic self-sufficiency within the existing structure.\"\n\nIn her book \"Reel to Real\", hooks discusses the effect that movies have on any given individual, with specific emphasis on the black female spectator. She argues that, although we know that movies are not real life, \"no matter how sophisticated our strategies of critique and intervention, [we] are usually seduced, at least for a time, by the images we see on the screen. They have power over us, and we have no power over them.\"\n\nHooks focuses on problematic racial representations. Bell hooks has written a number of essays and articles, and in \"Reel to Real\" she describes her experiences growing up watching mainstream movies as well as engaging in the media. Hooks believes that to engage in film was to engage in the negation of black female representation in the media. hooks states, \"Representation is the 'hot' issue right now because it's a major realm of power for any system of domination. We keep coming back to the question of representation because identity is always about representation\".\n\nAsserting that for her, the \"gaze\" had always been political, bell hooks explains how growing up she began to grow curious as to how much influence black parents were given as a result of black slaves being punished for looking at their white owners. She wondered how much had been absorbed and carried on through the generations to shift not only parenting, but spectatorship as well. In what is described as an \"oppositional gaze\", hooks explains the sometimes overwhelming desire to look and thus stating that by looking, actually declares a defiantly, \"Not only will I stare, I want my look to change reality.\" The cinema became a place of critical analysis and a place where black men could view narratives starring white women without the risk of being lynched or murdered for being perceived as a threat.\n\nAlthough much of the criticism aimed at hooks is in regard to politics, liberals and conservatives alike have critiqued her informal style of writing. After the release of her first book, \"Ain't I a Woman: Black Women in Feminism\", hooks's writing was criticized as \"ahistorical [and] unscholarly\"; many complained about the absence of footnotes. Hooks does not provide a bibliography for any of her work, making it difficult to find the editors and publication information for the pieces listed under the \"notes\" section of her work. In \"Theory as Liberatory Practice,\" hooks explains that her lack of conventional academic format was \"motivated by the desire to be inclusive, to reach as many readers as possible in as many different locations as possible\".\n\nIn \"Remembered Rapture: The Writer at Work; By bell hooks; Mother to Mother,\" Nicole Abraham criticizes hooks's unconventional format rationalization. Abraham suggests that, if her rationalization for not providing footnotes and bibliographic information in her writing is that it will help her reach a broader (presumably a less academic) audience, hooks either assumes the average person has \"no real interest or knowledge about who really wrote what ideas and where we can look for more thoughts on similar subjects\" or \"she mean[s] that we are lazy readers who have not the sophistication to grapple with the complications of an endnote.\"\n\n\n\nThroughout the book the author explores various manifestations of her central contentions - that early feminist theory and practice was limited in scope, and that true feminist movement has the potential to vastly improve the lives of men and women alike\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4645444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4645444", "title": "Bezmiâlem Sultan", "text": "Bezmiâlem Sultan\n\nBezmiâlem Sultan (fully \"Devletlu İsmetlu Bezmiâlem Valide Sultan Aliyyetü'ş-Şân Hazretleri\"; 1807 – 2 May 1853) (\"Bezm-î Âlem or Bazim-î Âlam\", meaning \"feast of the world\") was the second wife of Ottoman Sultan Mahmut II, and the mother of Sultan Abdülmecit I of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nMajority of sources note that she was a Georgian whose birthname was Suzi. She was educated by Esma Sultan, a sister of Mahmut II.\n\nShe is said to have been buxom and a bath attendant before entering the imperial harem. She had a beautiful face and extraordinary white and beautiful hands. She was married to Sultan Mahmud II in 1822. As mother of Sultan Abdülmecit I, she was Valide Sultan from 1839 to 1853. One source says Mahmud II died of alcoholism, rather than tuberculosis, and she is reported to have convinced Abdülmecit I to destroy his father's wine cellars. She was thirty one and was still young enough to despise and mistrust the elder non statesman who had made himself minister. She advised her son to allow Hüsrev to incur the odium of seeking terms from M. Ali but urged him to resist the Grand Vizier's attempts to advance his nominees to important offices of the state. Abdülmecit duly played for time, awaiting Reşit's return from England before taking any major decisions on policy. His mother had given sound counsel. So shrewd was her judgement of men and their motives that the Valide Sultan continued to influence the choice of ministers until shortly before her death fourteen years later. Bezmialem also recommended Reşit to Abdülmecit because she believed he understood what Mahmut had been seeking to achieve in his reform programme.\n\nShe was popular and respected as Valide Sultan and she also exerted political influence. It is noted that her son and his ministers consulted her on the affairs of state. Like other influential Ottoman women, she was a patron of arts and architecture. Amongst notable structures she commissioned are Kasr-i Dilküşa (Dilküşa Summer Palace) at the Yıldız Palace complex, Bezm-î-Âlem Valide Sultan Fountain, and Dolmabahçe Mosque in Istanbul. Her burial place is located at Divanyolu Street inside the tomb of Mahmut II in Istanbul.\n\n"}
{"id": "4153604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4153604", "title": "Billy Zoom", "text": "Billy Zoom\n\nBilly Zoom (born Tyson Kindell on February 20, 1948, in Savanna, Illinois) is an American guitarist, best known as one of the founders of the punk rock band X. He is an Orange, CA, resident and owns the Billy Zoom Custom Shop near Old Towne Orange. At 68-years-old, Zoom was diagnosed in 2015 with an aggressive form of bladder cancer and began immediate treatment. He has since stated that he is \"cancer-free\" but will continue receiving chemotherapy treatments.\n\nThe son of a Big Band woodwinds player, Kindell began playing a variety of instruments, including violin, accordion, piano, clarinet, tenor, alto, and baritone saxophones, flute, banjo, and guitar.\n\nUpon moving to Los Angeles in the 1960s, he worked as a session guitarist while attending technical school for training in electronics repair. He has an insider's reputation as an expert in the maintenance, restoration, and modification of vintage tube amplifiers, and Combo Organs. He has performed custom technical work on the amps for a host of electric guitarists and bassists.\n\nAlthough best known as guitarist and founding member of punk rock band X, Zoom has also worked with rockabilly legend Gene Vincent, The Blasters, Etta James, Big Joe Turner, Mike Ness, and dozens of other major recording artists. On stage, he is known for his wide-legged stance, big grin and tendency to make eye contact with audience members. He adopted this presence in reaction to many guitarists whose body histrionics and facial expressions gave the impression that they were playing very difficult parts on their instruments. Zoom wanted to make everything look easy.\n\nIn June 2008, in honor of his contributions to both the world music community and the legacy of Gretsch guitars, Gretsch unveiled the G6129BZ Billy Zoom Custom Shop Tribute Silver Jet.\n\n"}
{"id": "512661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512661", "title": "Canonization of Joan of Arc", "text": "Canonization of Joan of Arc\n\nJoan of Arc (1412–1431) was formally canonized as a saint of the Roman Catholic Church on 16 May 1920 by Pope Benedict XV in his bull \"Divina Disponente\", which concluded the canonization process that the Sacred Congregation of Rites instigated after a petition of 1869 of the French Catholic hierarchy. Although pro-English clergy had Joan burnt at the stake for heresy in 1431, she was rehabilitated in 1456 after a posthumous retrial. Subsequently she became a folk saint among French Catholics and soldiers inspired by her story of being commanded by God to fight for France against England. Many French regimes encouraged her cult, and the Third Republic was sympathetic to the canonization petition prior to the 1905 separation of church and state.\n\nAs with other saints who were excommunicated or investigated by ecclesiastic courts, such as Athanasius, Teresa of Ávila, and John of the Cross, Joan was put on trial by an Inquisitorial court. In her case, the court was influenced by the English, which occupied northern France, leading to her execution in the marketplace of Rouen. When the French retook Rouen in 1449, a series of investigations were launched. Her now-widowed mother Isabelle Romée and Joan's brothers Jéan and Pierre, who were with Joan at the Siege of Orleans, petitioned Pope Nicholas V to reopen her case. The formal appeal was conducted in 1455 by Jean Bréhal, Inquisitor-General of France, under the aegis of Pope Callixtus III. Isabelle addressed the opening session of the appellate trial at Notre Dame with an impassioned plea to clear her daughter's name. Joan was exonerated on 7 July 1456, with Bréhal's summary of case evidence describing her as a martyr who had been executed by a court which itself had violated Church law. In 1457, Callixtus excommunicated the now-deceased Bishop Pierre Cauchon for his persecution and condemnation of Joan. \n\nThe city of Orléans had commemorated her death each year beginning in 1432, and from 1435 onward performed a religious play centered on the lifting of the siege. The play represented her as a divinely-sent savior guided by angels. In 1452, during one of the postwar investigations into her execution, Cardinal d'Estouteville declared that this play would merit qualification as a pilgrimage site by which attendees could gain an indulgence.\n\nNot long after the appeal, Pope Pius II, who died in 1464, wrote an approving piece about her in his memoirs.\n\nJoan was utilized as a symbol of the Catholic League, a group organized to fight against Protestant groups during the Wars of Religion. An anonymous author wrote a biography of Joan's life, stating that it was compiled \"By order of the King, Louis XII of that name\" in circa 1500. \n\nJoan's cult of personality was opposed by the leaders of the French Revolution as she was a devout Catholic who had served the monarchy. They banned the yearly celebration of the lifting of the siege of Orleans, and Joan's relics, including her sword and banner, were destroyed. A statue of Joan erected by the people of Orléans in 1571 (to replace one destroyed by Protestants in 1568) was melted down and made into a cannon. \n\nRecognizing he could use Joan for his nationalist purposes, Napoleon allowed Orléans to resume its yearly celebration of the lifting of the siege, commissioned Augustin Dupré to strike a commemorative coin, and had Jean-Antoine Chaptal inform the mayor of Orléans that he approved of a resolution by the municipal council for Edme-François-Étienne Gois to erect his statue of Joan: \"The illustrious career of Joan of Arc proves that there is no miracle French genius cannot perform in the face of a threat against national freedom.\" Gois's work was relocated to Place Dauphiné in 1855, replaced with a statue of Joan by Denis Foyatier. \n\nAlthough Nicolas Lenglet Du Fresnoy and Clément Charles François de Laverdy are credited with the first full-length biographies of Joan, several English authors ironically sparked a movement which lead to her canonization. Harvard University English literature professor Herschel Baker noted in his introduction to \"Henry VI\" for \"The Riverside Shakespeare\" how appalled William Warburton was by the depiction of Joan in \"Henry VI, Part 1\", and that Edmond Malone sought in \"Dissertation on the Three Parts of Henry VI\" (1787) to prove Shakespeare had no hand in its authorship (1974; p. 587). Charles Lamb chided Samuel Taylor Coleridge for reducing Joan to \"a pot girl\" in the first drafts of \"The Destiny of Nations\", initially part of Robert Southey's \"Joan of Arc\". She was the subject of essays by Lord Mahon for \"The Quarterly Review\", and by Thomas De Quincey for \"Tait's\". In 1890, the Joan of Arc Church was dedicated to her.\n\nAs Joan found her way further into popular culture, the Government of France commissioned Emmanuel Frémiet to erect a statue of her in the Place des Pyramides -- the only public commission of the state from 1870 to 1914. The French Navy dedicated four vessels to her: a 52-gun frigate (1820); a 42-gun frigate (1852); an ironclad corvette warship (1867); and an armored cruiser (1899). Philippe-Alexandre Le Brun de Charmettes's biography (1817), and Jules Quicherat's account of her trial and rehabilitation (1841-1849) seemed to have inspired canonization efforts.\n\nIn 1869, to celebrate the 440th anniversary of Joan lifting the Siege of Orléans, Félix Dupanloup, Bishop of Orleans, invited the bishops whose dioceses included the towns which Joan entered or liberated during her career to Orléans . Supported by Henri-Alexandre Wallon, Dupanloup submitted a petition, signed by the attending dignitaries, to Pope Pius IX for Joan to be canonized, but the Franco-Prussian War postponed further action.\n\nIn 1874, depositions began to be collected, received by Cardinal Luigi Bilio in 1876. Dupanloup's successor, Bishop Pierre-Hector Coullié, directed an inquest to authenticate her acts and testimony from her trial and rehabilitation. On January 27, 1894, the Curia (Cardinals Benedetto Aloisi-Masella, Angelo Bianchi, Benoît-Marie Langénieux, Luigi Macchi, Camillo Mazzella, Paul Melchers, Mario Mocenni, Lucido Parocchi, Fulco Luigi Ruffo-Scilla, and Isidoro Verga) voted unanimously that Pope Leo XIII sign the \"Commissio Introductionis Causæ Servæ Dei Joannæ d'Arc\", which he did that afternoon. \n\nHowever, the path to sainthood did not go smoothly. On 20 August 1902, the papal consistory rejected adding Joan to the Calendar of saints, citing: she launched the assault on Paris on the birthday of Mary, mother of Jesus; her capture (\"proof\" her claim that she was sent by God was false); her attempts to escape from prison; her abjure after being threatened with death; and doubts of her purity. On 17 November 1903, the Sacred Congregation of Rites met to discuss Joan's cause at the behest of Pope Pius X. A decree proclaiming Joan's heroic virtue was issued on 6 January 1904 by Cardinal Serafino Cretoni, and Pius proclaimed her venerable on 8 January. The Decree of the Three Miracles was issued on 13 December 1908, and The Decree of Beatification was read five days later, which was issued formally by the Congregation of Rites on 24 January 1909.\n\nThe beatification ceremony was held on 18 April 1909, presided by Cardinals Sebastiano Martinelli and Mariano Rampolla. Bishop Stanislas Touchet performed the Mass. Cardinals Serafino Vannutelli, Pierre Andrieu, Louis Luçon, Coullié, Girolamo Maria Gotti, José Calassanç Vives y Tuto, then-Monsignor Rafael Merry del Val, Bishop John Patrick Farrelly, Bishop Thomas Kennedy, Monsignor Robert Seton, Count Giulio Porro-Lambertenghi (grandson of Luigi Porro Lambertenghi) with tribunes from The Knights of Malta, The Duke of Alençon and The Duke of Vendôme, then-Archbishop William Henry O'Connell, and The Duke of Norfolk attended. Pius—who was determined that the ceremony would not be used by Legitimists to attack the Third Republic—venerated the relics that afternoon, flanked by 70 French prelates.\n\nHer beatification approximately coincided with the French invention of the Janvier transfer engraving machine (also called a die engraving pantograph), which facilitates the creation of minted coins and commemorative medallions. This invention, together with the already well-established French sculptural tradition, added another element to Joan's beatification: a series of well-made religious art medals featuring scenes from her life.\n\nIn 1911, Edmond Richer's \"La premiére histoire en date de Jeanne d'Arc: histoire de la Pucelle d'Orléans\", written between 1625 and 1630, was published in two volumes in 1911 by Henri and Jules Desclée.\n\nDuring World War I, French troops carried her image into battle with them. During one battle, they interpreted a German searchlight image projected onto low-lying clouds as an appearance by Joan, which bolstered their morale greatly. [see: \"The Maid of Orléans: The Story of Joan of Arc Told to American Soldiers\" by Charles Saroléa, Georges Crès & Cie (1918)]\n\nHer canonization was held on 16 May 1920. Over 60,000 people attended the ceremony, including 140 descendants of Joan's family. Dignitaries included: Vendôme, Lambertenghi with The Knights of Malta, now-Bishop O'Connell, Gabriel Hanotaux, Princess Zinaida Yusupova, Princess Irina Alexandrovna, Prince Feodor Alexandrovich, The Duke of Braganza, The Count de Salis-Soglio, Rafael Valentín Errázuriz, Diego von Bergen, Bishop John Patrick Carroll, Archbishop Edward Joseph Hanna, Bishop Daniel Mary Gorman, Bishop Paul Joseph Nussbaum, the student body of The American College of Rome, and now-Cardinal Merry del Val, who greeted Pope Benedict XV as Benedict entered St. Peter's Basilica to preside over the rites. The Latin bull of Pope Benedict XV effecting her canonization was \"Divina Disponente\" of the same date. Approximately 100,000 persons celebrated at Westminster Cathedral and French churches throughout London.\n\nIn the 18 May 1920 \"Le Matin\", former President of France Raymond Poincaré wrote that Joan's canonization \"fulfills the last part of her mission in bringing together forever in the sacredness of her memory\" one-time mortal enemies England and France: \"In her spirit, let us remain united for the good of Mankind\".\n\nJoan of Arc's feast day is 30 May. Although reforms in 1968 moved many medieval European saints' days off the general calendar in order to make room for more non-Europeans, her feast day is still celebrated on many local and regional Church calendars, especially in France. Many Catholic churches around the globe have been named after her in the decades since her canonization.\n\nShe has become especially popular among Traditional Catholics, particularly in France—both because of her obvious connection to this country as well as the fact that the Traditional Catholic movement is strongest there. This movement within the church, which includes those few orders and societies which refused to accept the changes made by the Second Vatican Council, has compared the 1988 excommunication of Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre (one of the founders of the Society of Saint Pius X) to Joan of Arc's excommunication by a corrupt pro-English bishop in 1431.\n\n"}
{"id": "47666622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47666622", "title": "Dolly Akers", "text": "Dolly Akers\n\nDolly Akers or Dolly Smith Cusker Akers (March 23, 1901 – June 5, 1986) was an Assiniboine woman who was the first Native American elected to the Montana Legislature and first woman elected to the Tribal Executive Board of the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes on the Fort Peck Indian Reservation.\n\nDolly Smith Cusker Akers was born in Wolf Point, Montana to Assiniboine tribal member Nellie Trexler and Irish-American William Smith. She grew up on the Fort Peck Reservation. As a teenager, she attended an Indian boarding school, the Sherman Institute in Riverside, California. After she graduated at age sixteen, she returned to Montana and married George Cusker in 1917. The couple ranched near Poplar and had one daughter, Alvina. George Cusker died in 1941 and in 1944, Dolly married John Akers. She was widowed a second time in 1959. She died in Helena in 1986.\n\nIn 1923, Cusker accompanied two tribal representatives, Bear Hill and Dave Johnson, to Washington, D.C., as a translator to lobby for school funding. While there, she also advocated that Indians be given universal citizenship. The Indian Citizenship Act was passed in 1924. Not all Indians supported passage of this act, which provided voting rights for Native Americans, because they feared that it was another step toward assimilation and that it undermined tribal sovereignty.\n\nDolly's husband George Cusker served on the Tribal Council Executive Board; she often attended in his stead. Ultimately, she was appointed to the board in her own right.\n\nIn 1932 Cusker was elected to the state house as a Democrat (she later became a Republican). She became the first American Indian to serve in the Montana legislature and was the only woman serving in the 1933-34 legislative session. She was appointed to the Federal Relations Committee and was a special representative of the governor to the U.S. Secretary of Interior.\n\nAkers remained politically engaged for her entire life. She visited Washington, D.C., 57 times as a tribal delegate and was a member of the Fort Peck Tribal Council off and on for forty years. Her career was not without controversy. For example, in 1959, she was removed from the tribal council by a vote of 279 to 189 and \"barred forever from holding office and representing the Fort Peck Sioux and Assinniboine tribes.\" That vote was later overturned.\n\nAkers frequently challenged the Indian Bureau's management of tribal resources, believing that tribes (and individual Indians) should be permitted to manage their own affairs just as non-Indians could. \"Why should Indian people,\" she asked in 1952, \"be forced to live under a law made some 80 years ago? That is the year in which the Indian Commissioner referred to Indians as ‘wild beasts!’\"\n\nHer belief in Indian autonomy led her to support the controversial policy of Termination, that advocated \"terminating\" the U.S. government's treaty obligations to tribes in order to encourage individual Indians to integrate into the larger Euro-American society. Looking back on her career, she was most proud of successfully lobbying for a regulation permitting tribes to hire their own legal counsel and the 1968 Indian Civil Rights Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "56879753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56879753", "title": "Erasmo Janer Gironella", "text": "Erasmo Janer Gironella\n\nJosé Erasmo Janer Gironella (1833-1911) was a Spanish entrepreneur and politician. As a businessman he is considered a member of the textile-industry-related Catalan bourgeoisie, which enjoyed peak of its power in the mid-19th century; Janer represented this group during its declining phase. Politically he earned his name as a Carlist and headed the Catalan branch of the party between 1902 and 1910.\n\nSome scholars consider the Janer family past an illustration of social history in Catalonia, its rise and decline demonstrating patterns of change within the local ruling strata. Erasmo's paternal grandfather Domingo Janer Sunyer (1762-1807) was son to a provincial doctor and commenced his career as a petty merchant from Esparreguera; rising to prosperity, he was ennobled in 1795. He married heiress to an emergent Gónima textile fortune; both died prematurely. Their only son and the future father of Erasmo, (1791-1862), inherited the hugely successful business in 1821; at that time it was crowned with the largest European textile factory which employed some 1,200 workers. Himself representative of a new strata of commerce and industry tycoons which started to surpass landed aristocracy and old urban bourgeoisie, in the mid-19th century Janer Gónima brought the family to business and political climax. Member of executive boards of countless economic organizations, he held key positions in municipal administration, served as alcalde of Barcelona in 1846 and as a provincial deputy in the 1850s. In the mid-19th century he shut down the textile factory and re-focused the family business on finance, railways and commerce.\n\nIn 1813 Janer Gónima married Josefa Gironella Ayguals, daughter to another Barcelona textile industry tycoon. The couple had 5 or 7 children; out of two sons, it was José Erasmo who became heir to the family wealth. At unspecified time though probably in the 1840s he frequented the Piarist college of St. Anthony in Barcelona, to complete education while studying law at Universidad de Barcelona and graduating most likely in the mid-1850s. Gradually getting engaged in running the family business, in 1864 José Erasmo married Dolores Milá de la Roca Vilaseca; her family, also ennobled merchants, became landowners rather than engaged in potentially profitable but risky urban ventures. Basking in inherited opulence the couple settled in the Janer family residence in Barcelona, in the iconic building known as . \n\nJosé Erasmo and Dolores had 7 children, though only two of them married: the second oldest son and the family heir became a locally known historian and writer, while Mercedes wed a Carlist politician Dalmacio Iglesias. Another daughter María de los Angeles became a Carlist propagandist. José Erasmo and Dolores had 5 grandchildren; both grandsons were youth Carlist activists during the Second Republic years and requeté volunteers during the Civil War. The older one, Erasmo Janer Duran, was executed by the Republicans; the younger one, Enrique Janer Duran, survived the war to become a lawyer; since the early 1940s till the late 1970s he held various mid-range positions in the Barcelona city council, from secretary of the ayuntamiento to teniente auditor, jefé de sección and head of the transport department. As neither Erasmo nor Enrique had sons, the Janer line has extinguished. The nephews of José Erasmo, and , became known in local Catalan realm respectively as a writer and as a painter.\n\nAs heir to the former mayor of Barcelona and son to one of the most potent men in the city Janer was destined to become a public figure, yet political preferences of his ancestors are not entirely clear. Historians note that as tycoons of new bourgeoisie the Janers and the Gónimas were Liberals, while the Gironellas were even related to the revolutionary exaltado version of Spanish liberalism. One source claims that during the First Carlist War his father joined the liberal Barcelona juntas while another one states that in the mid-1840s he was a Traditionalist, which might point to not an unusual conservative evolution of certain section of the . One author notes that Janer himself sort of neared Traditionalist outlook during his academic years, yet his first public engagements did not demonstrate such a penchant. In the late 1850s and early 1860s he was noted for engagement in various institutions related to local business, recorded as member of and an insurance company \"La Providencia\" or sitting in the board of Asociación de Socorros y Protección a la Clase Obrera y Jornalera and in Junta de Patronato of his Barcelona borough. One source claims he initially practiced as a lawyer.\n\nIn the mid-1860s Janer was first noted running for public office, as propietario and haciendario competing for the concejal post in the Barcelona ayuntamiento; there is no confirmation of his success. It seems that during final years of the Isabelline monarchy he neared the entourage of the then capitán general of Catalonia and the Conservative politician, ; Janer used to address him in public homage letters and was nominated by Pezuela to the last Isabelline city council, where he was sitting as the youngest concejal until the body was dissolved during the 1868 revolution.\n\nOne author claims that Janer passed from Conservative to Carlist position when faced with the revolutionary developments of the late 1860s. Some sources maintain he fielded his candidature in elections to the Constituent Assembly of 1869 and indeed in 1871 he was already reported as nominated by the regional Carlist junta as their representative in the Cortes elections from Sant Feliu de Llobregat, the bid which proved unsuccessful. In 1872 Janer became president of Círculo Católico-Monárquico in Barcelona and entered the provincial party executive, noted as member of the Barcelona Junta Provincial Católico-Monárquica. In the council he was sitting with his father-in-law, Manuel Milá de la Roca, and forged the lifelong friendship with the junta leader and later Catalan Carlist leader, Luis de Llauder y Dalmases. Following outbreak of the Third Carlist War Janer found himself the target of Republican persecutions and had to flee the city a number of times. Eventually with his family he sought exile in France and settled in Saint Jean de Luz. According to one source he joined a small team, led by Tírso de Olazábal and busy procuring arms for the Carlist troops; it is likely that taking advantage of his wealth, Janer contributed financially.\n\nIt is not clear whether Janer's massive property was embargoed during the war, whether he suffered any other persecutions and when he returned to Barcelona after the Carlist military defeat. A number of sources point vaguely to the late 1870s when claiming that together with Milá de la Roca and Llauder Janer was among co-founders of a new Carlist daily which would remain in print for the following 60 years, \"\". In 1879 he entered the Barcelona ayuntamiento yet duration of his term is not known; except a 1888 spell in Junta Municipal it proved to be a unique Janer's episode in official administration. In the 1880s he was noted rather for looking after his family enterprises, especially in Caja de Ahorros. However, some scholars claim that he demonstrated neither interest nor skills in commercial activities and that during his tenure the family business went into decline; some go as far as to claim that to sustain the Carlist cause he kept selling off his private property or even that he ruined his fortune with the legitimist zeal. Janer was also known for engagement in numerous public initiatives, often flavored with charity: he held executive or presidential positions in Junta de Obra, Junta de la Beneficiencia in his Nuestra Señora del Carmen parish, Real Archicofradía de la Virgén de los Dolores, Junta Local de Salvament de Náufrags and various makeshift committees, e.g. the body assisting victims of the 1885 earthquake in Andalusia.\n\nIn the 1880s Carlism did not exist as organized structures present in the Spanish public life; the movement languished as a set of loose quasi-political initiatives flavored with Traditionalist spirit and intransigent religiosity. Part of this strategy was mobilizing support by means of mass pilgrimages; Janer contributed as member of the Barcelona Junta Organizativa branch, which co-ordinated the 1882 romería to Rome. Adhering to the same line he used to sign various public letters denouncing perceived injustice to the Catholics and secular course of the government, e.g. the entire Janer family subscribed to a 1883 document which protested curtailment of Catholic rights; in 1884 he emerged as leader of the Catalan branch of Asociación Católica. Stress on religious features, focus on Traditionalist values and de-emphasizing of dynastical threads was very much the vision of the Carlist political leader and later his son Ramón. Janer seemed on perfect terms with both despite the fact that the Nocedalistas, known also as Integrists, were increasingly on collision course with the claimant Don Carlos; as late as in 1886 Janer took part in a homage banquet honoring Ramón Nocedal. However, when in 1888 the Integrists broke away from Carlism to form their own Traditionalist organization Janer decided to stay loyal to his king; in 1889 he was already lambasted by the Integrists as the sidekick of Llauder.\n\nFollowing the Integrist secession Carlism abandoned its quasi-political format of the 1880s and assumed a decisively more active political stance; the nationwide structures started to emerge, initially styled as committees celebrating 1,400 years since the . In Catalonia the organization was headed by Llauder, yet Janer – together with Manuel de Torrents – was nominated its vice-president, effectively the second-in-command in the regional party infrastructure. However, his contribution to Carlist buildup seems meager. Though Carlist candidates started to take part in electoral campaigns and under the new nationwide leadership of Marqués de Cerralbo the movement took shape of an organized modern political party, there is little information on Janer's public activity in the early 1890s. Despite consolidation and growth of Catalan Carlism under the regional leadership of Llauder, Janer neither stood as candidate in elections nor was recorded as active in supporting electoral campaigns. While de Cerralbo was striving to implement a new formula of mass mobilization Janer seemed attached rather to old-style patterns and at best took part in closed-door party feasts, like the one in 1893. His popular initiatives stuck to the pilgrimage format, e.g. when organizing workers' romería to Rome in 1894 or signing homage letter to the papal nuncio; the document protested the governmental secularization policy.\n\nIn 1895 Janer was officially confirmed by de Cerralbo as vice-president of the Catalan Carlist organization, yet he still remained in the shadow of Llauder. He was barely mentioned when new party círculos in the region were being opened, typically noted when presiding over official banquets or entertaining royal Carlist figures, e.g. the second wife of the claimant Berthe do Rohan, who visited Barcelona in 1896. Though historiographic studies either on Catalan or nationwide Carlism of the 1890s barely mention his name, de Cerralbo was apparently satisfied with Janer's contribution to the cause; Jefe Delegado addressed him with effusive letters of gratitude and thanked him for electoral efforts; press of the era provides little evidence of such support. Actually, it seems that in the late 1890s the Catalan Carlism was vibrant yet increasingly leaderless and disorganized. Since 1898 due to his poor health Llauder's leadership became largely theoretical, while the movement was plagued by personal squabbles, emerging social radicalism, urban pistolerismo, Catalanist sympathies and insurrectional currents. None of the sources consulted mentions Janer when discussing the local . The press noted that in the very first years of the 20th century the Catalan Carlism was led by 3 competitive juntas: 1) the old one headed by Llauder, 2) the new one appointed by recently nominated Jefe Delegado Matiás Barrio and headed by Duque de Solferino, and 3) the one associated with , headed by Janer; this claim is not confirmed by other sources. Following the death of Llauder and despite rumors pointing to Solferino, following Janer's visit to Don Carlos' residence in Venice in 1902 the claimant nominated him the new Catalan leader.\n\nJaner's tenure fell on a period when Catalan Carlism was challenged by massive social and political change, the decade which shifted the region's centre of gravity from rural traditional hinterland to the coastal strip, dominated by new urban classes. The rising Catalanist and anti-establishment tide gave rise to Solidaridad Catalana; on the one hand the Carlists were attracted by its opposition to the Restoration regime, on the other they were estranged by Republican, nationalist and secularist features of the alliance. Janer, who in 1903-1905 limited himself to making appointments and presiding over party feasts, in 1906 gave in to the pressure of pro-Solidaridad Carlists like Solferino and and permitted access to the pact. His key concern was that only authorized individuals were allowed to stand on joint electoral lists and that the move did not go beyond a temporary tactical cooperation. Faced with anti-Solidaridad opposition in the party ranks he enforced discipline yet it seems he kept vacillating himself. Carlist access was rewarded with great success in the 1907 elections but it seems that Janer had few regrets when the alliance fell apart in 1908, even though debates persisted until 1909.\nAnother problem Janer had to face as a regional leader was the insurrectional tide, rising among the Catalan Carlists. Though the 1900 preparations boiled down to few isolated attempts some sections of the party kept gearing up for a violent overthrow of the regime. Janer called for discipline and tried to marginalize the radicals; when in 1906 they staged a , easily crushed by the government forces, Janer first disauthorised the action and then expulsed the insurrectionists from the party, again in full agreement with the claimant. However, the dissent was mounting, fuelled also by personal squabbles and issues related to tactical alliances with the Alfonsists; to enforce discipline at times Janer opted for dissolution of municipal or even provincial party jefaturas. A few local party heavyweights like Tamarít grumbled against Janer and some, like Solferino, resigned in protest.\n\nJaner seemed overwhelmed by problems and apparent decomposition of the party in Catalonia; he first tried to step down in 1906, but his resignation was not accepted by the claimant; in 1908 he again handed over his resignation, also to no avail. Contemporary press noted that Janer was a great Christian, grand citizen and by all means an extraordinary person, but neither a good leader nor an impressive politician, tending to inactivity and with scarce faith in the cause. He is not recorded as engaged in heated debates shaping the nationwide Carlist politics. In 1910 Janer eventually got his resignation accepted by the new Carlist king Don Jaime, who appointed Solferino his successor. The reason quoted was Janer's poor health and indeed it seems that his life force deteriorated, especially after the 1910 death of his wife. Following resignation he mostly withdrew into privacy and in public remained engaged only in family business, until death performing managerial duties in Caja de Ahorros.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37309876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37309876", "title": "Eugene Chen", "text": "Eugene Chen\n\nEugene Chen or Chen Youren (; July 2, 1878, San Fernando, Trinidad – 20 May 1944, Shanghai), known in his youth as Eugene Bernard Achan, was an overseas Chinese lawyer who in the 1920s became Sun Yat-sen's foreign minister. He was known for his success in promoting Sun's anti-imperialist foreign policies.\n\nChen's father, Chen Guangquan, was known as Joseph Chen or Achan. He was of Hakka ancestry from Meixian. After taking part in the Taiping Rebellion against the Manchu dynasty, he fled to the French West Indies where he met his wife, Mary Longchallon (Marie Leong), also a Chinese immigrant. Chen, as well as the Longchallon family, had been required by the French authorities to accept the Catholic faith as a condition of immigration.\n\nEugene was the oldest of Chen Guangquan and Mary Longchallon's three sons. Both parents of Eugene Chen were Chinese immigrants to Trinidad. His wife Aisy was of African and French blood.\n\nAfter attending a Catholic school, St Mary's College, Trinidad, Chen qualified as a barrister and became known as one of the most highly skilled solicitors in the islands. The family did not speak Chinese at home; and, since there were no Chinese schools, he also did not learn to read Chinese. It was later said of him that his library was filled with Dickens, Shakespeare, Scott, and legal books, that he \"spoke English as a scholar\"; \"except for his color, neither his living nor his habits were Chinese\".\n\nChen eventually left the island to live in London, where he heard Sun Yat-sen speak at a rally against the Manchu government in China. Sun persuaded him to come to China and contribute his legal knowledge to the new Republic in 1912. Chen took the Trans-Siberian Railroad, and shared the journey with Wu Lien-te, a physician born in Malaysia. Learning that Chen had no Chinese name, Wu suggested \"Youren\" as the equivalent of \"Eugene\".\n\nAfter Sun was forced to flee to Japan in 1913, Chen remained in Peking, where he began a second career in journalism. Chen edited the bilingual \"Peking Gazette\" 1913-1917, then founded the \"Shanghai Gazette\", the first of what Sun envisioned as a network of newspapers across China. Chen had given up his initial support for Yuan Shikai and became a strong critic of the government, accusing it of \"selling China\", for which offence he was imprisoned. In 1918, Chen joined Sun in Canton to support the southern government, which he helped to represent at the Paris Peace Conference, where he resisted Japanese and British plans for China. In 1922, Chen became Sun's closest adviser on foreign affairs, and developed a leftist stance of anti-imperialist nationalism and support of Sun's alliance with the Soviet Union.\n\nChen's diplomacy led one historian to call him \"arguably China's most important diplomat of the 1920s and instrumental in the rights recovery movement.\" Chen welcomed Sun's alliance with the Soviet Union, and worked harmoniously with Michael Borodin, the chief Soviet and foreign policy adviser to Sun Yat-Sen on the reorganization of the Nationalist Party at Canton in 1923. After Sun's death, Chen was elected to the Central Executive Committee of Kuomintang, Nationalist Minister for Foreign affairs at Canton, and Ruler of Hankow, all being achieved in 1926 he was forced to resign in April 1927. Over the next two years, Chen lodged vigorous and articulate protests over continued imperialist policies with the American and British governments, as well as negotiating with the British authorities over the massive labor strikes in Hong Kong. When Chiang Kai-shek's Northern Expedition appeared on the verge of unifying the country, Chen joined the rival Nationalist government at Wuhan. In January 1927, the Nationalists at Wuhan forcibly took control over the foreign concession there, and when violent crowds also took the foreign concession at Kiukiang, foreign warships gathered at Shanghai. Chen's negotiations with the British led to confirmation of Chinese control of the two concessions and this success was hailed as the start of a new revolutionary foreign policy. The situation soon reversed. The foreign powers retaliated for the deadly xenophobic attacks on foreigners by elements of the National Revolutionary Army in Nanking, and Chiang Kai-shek launched White Terror attacks on leftists in Shanghai. Chen sent Borodin, his sons Percy Chen and Jack Chen, and the American leftist journalist Anna Louise Strong in an automotive convoy across Central Asia to Moscow. He, his daughters Si-lan and Yolanda,Mme. Sun Yat-sen, and the American journalist Rayna Prohme traveled from Shanghai to Vladivostok, and once again by Trans-Siberian Railway to Moscow.\nLife in Moscow from 1928 was far from easy. After an initial warm public reception, Stalin showed little tolerance for living symbols of the Soviet failure in China. Chen and Mme. Sun were frustrated in their attempts to establish a leftist Chinese front, and soon left Moscow. After a period of exile he went to Hong Kong before being appointed Foreign Minister by General Chiang Kai-Shek in 1931. After brief service with governments in China which challenged the Nanking government, Chen was finally expelled from the Kuomintang for serving as Foreign Minister in the Fukien Rebellion of 1934. He again took refuge in Paris, but returned to Hong Kong after the outbreak of the war with Japan. He was taken to Shanghai in the spring of 1942 in hopes of persuading him to support the Japanese puppet government, but he remained loudly critical of that \"pack of liars\" until his death in May, 1944, at the age of 66.\n\nIn 1899, Chen married Agatha Alphosin Ganteaume (1878–1926), known as Aisy, a French Creole whose father owned one of the largest estates in Trinidad. They had eight children, four of whom survived childhood: Percy Chen (1901-1986), a lawyer, worked with his father for many years; Sylvia (Silan) Chen (1905-1996), an internationally known dancer, married the American film historian Jay Leyda; Yolanda (Yulen) Chen (1913-2006), who stayed in the USSR for the rest of her life and came to the prominence as a camerawoman; and Jack Chen (1908-1995), who made an international reputation as a journalistic cartoonist during the Sino-Japanese War, and who wrote A Year In Upper Felicity, an account of his experience in the countryside during the Cultural Revolution. In 1958 Jack married Chen Yuan-tsung.\n\nAisy died of breast cancer in May 1926. Chen and Georgette Chen were married in 1930 and remained together until his death in 1944.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10299612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10299612", "title": "Florence, Lady Phillips", "text": "Florence, Lady Phillips\n\nDorothea Sarah Florence Alexandra, Lady Phillips (née Ortlepp; 14 June 1863 – 23 August 1940) was a South African art patroness and promoter of indigenous culture. She was married to Sir Lionel Phillips, 1st Baronet, a mining magnate and politician and was known by one of her middle names, Florence.\n\nFlorence Ortlepp was born in Cape Town in 1863, the only daughter of Albert Frederick Ortlepp, a Colesberg land surveyor and naturalist, and Sarah Walker. She received her education at Rondebosch and later in Bloemfontein. Lionel Phillips met her on the diamond-diggings and married her in 1885. They moved to Johannesburg in 1889. She travelled extensively from 1887, but returned hurriedly to be with her husband during his trial following the Jameson Raid. After his sentence, reprieve and exile, they left for London and established a home in Grosvenor Square while maintaining a country house at Tylney Hall in Hampshire. While the couple lived in London, Florence acquired a keen interest in art and bought numerous works by artists of the time, including William Orpen, William Rothenstein, Walter Sickert, Philip Wilson Steer, Camille Pissarro, Claude Monet and Alfred Sisley. She presented many of these works to the Johannesburg Art Gallery, which she actively helped to establish.\n\nOn a visit to South Africa in 1905, she commissioned Rudolf Marloth to undertake his Flora of South Africa, a mammoth work published in 6 volumes between 1913 and 1932. \nAfter resettling in Johannesburg, she started acquiring paintings with a view to eventually founding an art gallery, which after many difficulties took shape as the Johannesburg Art Gallery. She played a leading role in projects aimed at cultivating and preserving the local artistic heritage. She persuaded Sir Max Michaelis to donate his considerable collection of 17th century Dutch and Flemish paintings to the city of Cape Town. She headed a movement to preserve and restore the Koopmans-De Wet House in Cape Town and was an enthusiastic collector of Africana furniture, both for her own home and public institutions. She was instrumental, with Prof. G.E. Pearse, in establishing a Faculty of Architecture at the University of the Witwatersrand.\n\nIn 1913 her book \"A Friendly Germany: Why Not?\" was published pleading for friendly relations between England and Germany. She was of the opinion that Britain and Germany should unite against the self-determination movement amongst the Asians and Africans, which she referred to as \"The Black and the Yellow Perils\".\n\nFlorence and Lionel Phillips eventually settled at the farm Vergelegen near Somerset West in 1924. Here they devoted their spare time to encouraging the preservation of national heritage culture and artefacts. They also sponsored immigrants through the 1820 Settlers Memorial Association and a number of other public causes. Many of the Randlords and their wives commissioned portraits of themselves from leading European society portraitists of the time. The living room of the Vergelegen Manor House is adorned by a youthful and opulent portrayal of Florence by the Italian artist Giovanni Boldini, while a more mature and sombre rendering by the British portraitist Sir William Nicholson is to be seen in the Music Room. The Boldini portrait was presented by Lady Phillips to the SA National Gallery in the 1930s.\n\nShe died in 1940 at Vergelegen, Somerset West. She and her husband are buried in the Brixton Cemetery in Johannesburg. They had two sons and a daughter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4999734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4999734", "title": "Foxy Grandpa", "text": "Foxy Grandpa\n\nFoxy Grandpa was an American gag-a-day newspaper comic strip featuring an eponymous character, created by cartoonist Carl E. Schultze drawing under the name of “Bunny.”\n\n\"Foxy Grandpa\" made its first appearance on January 7, 1900. The strip initially ran in the \"New York Herald\", but it moved to the \"New York American\" on February 16, 1902. \n\nSelchow and Righter licensed \"Foxy Grandpa\" for the Foxy Grandpa Hat Party Game (similar to Pin the Tail on the Donkey) after 1900. Between 1901 and 1917, \"Foxy Grandpa\" was published in books, more than 30 volumes from four different publishers. The strip was also adapted to Broadway shows and early silent films (with Foxy Grandpa played by stage performer Joseph Hart). In 1912, the strip was briefly distributed by the C. J. Mar Syndicate, but it was dropped in 1918.\n\nIn the typeset \"Foxy Grandpa's Stories\", distributed by Newspaper Feature Syndicate, Foxy Grandpa was the narrator, appearing in a one-panel cartoon at the top of each column. This feature lasted through the 1920s and well into the 1930s. In 1929, the strip appeared in America's first comics periodical, \"The Funnies\".\n\nThe strip revolved around Foxy Grandpa, an elderly gentleman, with two mischievous grandsons (Chub and Bunt) who constantly try to trick him. Foxy Grandpa, however, always managed to get the better of the two boys, combining brains with a perverse sense of humor, while demonstrating skills at acrobatics, illustration and construction of various small devices.\n\nThe comic was drawn in text comic style, with the text and dialogue written underneath the images. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55361373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55361373", "title": "George Rae (banker)", "text": "George Rae (banker)\n\nGeorge Rae (1817-1902) was a British banker and stockbroker based in Birkenhead. He is most notable for his patronage of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood and his commissioning and acquisition of works by Ford Madox Brown, Arthur Hughes and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. His commissions included Rossetti's \"The Beloved\", commissioned in 1863 for £300 but only completed two years later.\n"}
{"id": "13757982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13757982", "title": "Henry Hurwitz Jr.", "text": "Henry Hurwitz Jr.\n\nHenry Hurwitz Jr. (December 25, 1918 – April 14, 1992), was a physicist at General Electric Company who pioneered the theory and design of nuclear power plants and helped engineer the reactor for the Seawolf nuclear submarine.\n\nHe was born in Manhattan on December 25, 1918. He graduated from Cornell University in 1938, with an M.S. in physics. He then went to Harvard University in 1939 and received a Ph.D. in quantum mechanics in 1941. His first marriage ended in divorce.\n\nIn 1943 he was recruited by Hans Bethe to help Edward Teller's staff of researchers at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico develop the thermonuclear reactions for the hydrogen bomb. In 1946, Hurwitz became one of the first scientists to work at GE's Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory in Schenectady, New York. In 1947 he transferred to the GE Research and Development Center to become manager of the Nucleonics and Radiation Branch. His team of scientists used advanced theta-pinch techniques to harness fusion reactions.\n\nIn 1955, a year after Fortune Magazine named him as one of the top 10 scientists in U.S. industry, Hurwitz contributed to establishing the first atomic containment sphere for GE. The development advanced industry-wide safety protocols for enclosing nuclear reactors.\n\nHis interest in electronic devices, computer applications, and chemical engineering prompted GE to recognize Hurwitz's accomplishments in 1975 by naming him a Coolidge Fellow, the GE R&D Center's highest honor. Hurwitz also is noted for his efforts to raise awareness about the dangers of Radon, and later received the Glenn T. Seaborg Medal in 1989 from the American Nuclear Society.\n\nHe died on April 14, 1992 in Schenectady, New York of cancer, at age 73.\n\n"}
{"id": "39780848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39780848", "title": "Ho Iat Seng", "text": "Ho Iat Seng\n\nHo Iat Seng (; born 12 June 1957 in Macau) is a member of Legislative Assembly of Macau. He is also a member of the 9th, 10th, 11th & 12th Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, and a Member of the Chief Executive of Macau from 2004 to 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1681651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681651", "title": "James Ross (Canadian lawyer)", "text": "James Ross (Canadian lawyer)\n\nJames Ross (9 May 1835 – 20 September 1871) was a Metis journalist, lawyer, and member of the provisional government established by Louis Riel during the Red River Rebellion of 1869 – 1870. He graduated with honours from the University of Toronto in 1857. He also received a Master of Arts from the same university later in 1865. He was the Métis son of Scottish immigrant author and Hudson's Bay Company fur trader/administrator Alexander Ross and Sarah (Timentwa),an Okanagan tribal woman. James married Margaret Smith in Toronto on 18 May 1858.\n\nRoss represented the views of the anglophone community in the Red River Colony, defusing tensions between the French- and English-speaking delegates of the Métis National Committee. He served on the Convention of Forty (January 25, 1870 to February 10, 1870) as a representative of St. John's Parish. Ross served as translator of the speeches of the French delegates, and also served on the \"Committee of Six\" responsible for drafting the \"List of Rights\" that were presented to the Government of Canada during the negotiations that led to the Manitoba Act of 1870 and the entry of the province of Manitoba into the Canadian Confederation. James Ross died of tuberculosis on September 20, 1871. \n\n"}
{"id": "248715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248715", "title": "John French, 1st Earl of Ypres", "text": "John French, 1st Earl of Ypres\n\nField Marshal John Denton Pinkstone French, 1st Earl of Ypres, (28 September 1852 – 22 May 1925), known as Sir John French from 1901 to 1916, and as The Viscount French between 1916 and 1922, was a senior British Army officer. Born in Kent to an Anglo-Irish family, he saw brief service as a midshipman in the Royal Navy, before becoming a cavalry officer. He achieved rapid promotion and distinguished himself on the Gordon Relief Expedition. French had a considerable reputation as a womaniser throughout his life and his career nearly ended when he was cited in the divorce of a brother officer whilst in India in the early 1890s.\n\nFrench became a national hero during the Second Boer War. He won the Battle of Elandslaagte near Ladysmith, escaping under fire on the last train as the siege began. He then commanded the Cavalry Division, winning the Battle of Klip Drift during a march to relieve Kimberley. He later conducted Counter-insurgency operations in Cape Colony.\n\nDuring the Edwardian Period he commanded I Corps at Aldershot, then served as Inspector-General of the Army, before becoming Chief of the Imperial General Staff (CIGS, the professional head of the British Army) in 1912. During this time he helped to prepare the British Army for a possible European War, and was also one of those who insisted, in the so-called “cavalry controversy”, that cavalry still be trained to charge with sabre and lance rather than only fighting dismounted with firearms. During the Curragh incident he had to resign as CIGS after promising Hubert Gough in writing that the Army would not be used to coerce Ulster Protestants into a Home Rule Ireland.\n\nFrench’s most important role was as Commander-in-Chief (C-in-C) of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) for the first year and a half of the First World War. He had an immediate personality clash with the French General Charles Lanrezac. After the British suffered heavy casualties at the battles of Mons and Le Cateau (where Smith-Dorrien made a stand contrary to French's wishes), French wanted to withdraw the BEF from the Allied line to refit and only agreed to take part in the First Battle of the Marne after a private meeting with the Secretary of State for War, Lord Kitchener, against whom he bore a grudge thereafter. In May 1915 he leaked information about shell shortages to the press in the hope of engineering Kitchener’s removal. By summer 1915 French’s command was being increasingly criticised in London by Kitchener and other members of the government, and by Haig, Robertson and other senior generals in France. After the Battle of Loos, at which French's slow release of XI Corps from reserve was blamed for the failure to achieve a decisive breakthrough on the first day, H. H. Asquith, the British Prime Minister, demanded his resignation. Haig, who was formerly French's trusted subordinate and who had saved him from bankruptcy by lending him a large sum of money in 1899, replaced him.\n\nFrench was then appointed Commander-in-Chief, Home Forces for 1916–18. This period saw the country running increasingly short of manpower for the Army. Whilst the Third Battle of Ypres was in progress, French, as part of Lloyd George’s manoeuvres to reduce the power of Haig and Robertson, submitted a paper which was critical of Haig's command record and which recommended that there be no further major offensives until the American Expeditionary Force (AEF) was present in strength. He then became Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in 1918, a position he held throughout much of the Irish War of Independence (1919–1922), in which his own sister was involved on the republican side. During this time he published \"1914\", an inaccurate and much criticised volume of memoirs.\n\nFrench's family was related to the French/De Freyne family which had gone to Wexford in the fourteenth century and had substantial estates at Frenchpark, Roscommon. French always regarded himself as \"Irish\", although his branch of the family had lived in England since the eighteenth century.\n\nHis father was Commander John Tracey William French, RN, of Ripple Vale in Kent (born 1808, died 1854), who had fought at Navarino and under Napier in support of Dom Pedro in the Portuguese Civil War. His mother was Margaret Eccles from Glasgow, who, after suffering a breakdown after her husband's death, was eventually institutionalised after being diagnosed as insane. She died in 1867, leaving French to be brought up by his sisters. He was educated at a Harrow preparatory school and Eastman's Royal Naval Academy at Portsmouth before joining the Royal Navy in 1866.\n\nHe joined the Royal Navy because it gave him a chance to leave home four or five years earlier than the Army. From August 1866 he trained on board the three-decker battleship HMS \"Britannia\" at Dartmouth. He obtained only an \"average\" certificate, which required him to do a further six months training on board another ship—the frigate HMS \"Bristol\" at Sheerness from January 1868—before qualifying as a midshipman.\n\nIn 1869, he served as a midshipman on HMS \"Warrior\", commanded by Captain Boys, an old friend of French's father. She patrolled in the English Channel and off Spain and Portugal. While in Lisbon, French was able to hire horses and ride over Wellington’s old battlefields. During his service, he also witnessed the accidental sinking of HMS \"Captain\". He resigned from the Royal Navy in November 1870, as he was discovered to be acrophobic and to suffer from seasickness.\n\nFrench joined the Suffolk Artillery Militia in November 1870, where he was expected to put in about two months a year with the regiment. He initially failed his exams (mathematics and foreign languages) for a regular commission, and had to hire a new tutor, losing the fees he had paid in advance to the previous one.\n\nHe was commissioned as a lieutenant in the 8th King's Royal Irish Hussars on 28 February 1874, a prestigious regiment whose officers often drank claret for breakfast, but there is no evidence that he ever served with them. He transferred to the 19th Hussars on 11 March 1874, possibly as it was cheaper—following the sale of the family home at Ripple Valley French’s private income of £1,000 per annum was enough to cover the £500–£600 required by his new regiment. He was posted to Aldershot Command, which then contained a division (three infantry brigades and one cavalry) under Sir Hope Grant. He became an expert hunter and steeplechaser, permanently damaging the little finger of his right hand in a fall.\n\nThe 19th Hussars were posted to Ireland in June 1876. In September 1877 French was one of two lieutenants who persuaded seventy drunk and mutinous troopers, who had armed themselves with sticks and threatened \"murder\" if infantry pickets were sent after them, to return to barracks (the ringleaders were subsequently imprisoned—they had been protesting at an unpopular commanding officer, who remained in command for another sixteen months). In the autumn of 1880 the 19th were deployed by rail to Ballinrobe and Lough Mask, to protect labourers ricking hay at the height of the Captain Boycott disturbances. An Irishman hamstrung French’s horse with a sickle while he was sitting on it.\n\nHe became adjutant of his regiment on 1 June 1880. At that time the 19th Hussars had only one major, but as three different men held that rank in three years (1877–80) the resulting turnover of officers brought French his promotion to captain on 16 October 1880.\n\nHe became adjutant of the Northumberland Hussars on 1 April 1881. While in Northumberland he missed out on active service: the 19th Hussars took part in the occupation of Egypt and Battle of Tel el-Kebir (13 September 1882), but French's applications to rejoin his regiment were rejected by the War Office. An increase in the number of majors in the 19th Hussars brought French promotion to that rank on 3 April 1883. These promotions (captain at the age of 28, major at 30) were relatively rapid.\n\nFrench was initially expected to rejoin his regiment when they returned to Ireland, but the emergence of the Mahdi in the Sudan required them to remain in the theatre, fighting Mahdist forces in the eastern Sudan near Suakin. French eventually rejoined the regiment when they returned to Cairo in October 1884.\n\nFrench took part in the Sudan expedition to relieve Major General Charles Gordon in 1884. He was second-in-command to his friend Lieutenant Colonel Percy Barrow, with the cavalry which accompanied Brigadier General Sir Herbert Stewart as he took the short route across 176 miles of desert (the other British force under Major General Earle marched the long way along the bend of the Nile). Most of the cavalry work was in reconnaissance and warding off Dervish raids, although they did—at a walk—pursue the retreating enemy after the Battle of Abu Klea in January 1885. By the time they reached the Nile the horses had not been watered for between 56 and 72 hours. During the retreat back across the desert via Jakdul—the expedition had reached Khartoum too late to save Gordon—Major French led a rearguard of thirteen men, again warding off Dervish attacks and impressing Redvers Buller and Sir Garnet Wolseley.\n\nHe was promoted to lieutenant colonel on 7 February 1885. Once again, this was an unusually early promotion, and he was appointed second-in-command of the 19th Hussars. His experience of handling cavalry with scarce water would stand him in good stead in South Africa. In January 1886 he briefly acted as Commanding Officer when Colonel Barrow died. but French was considered too young for the position, and Colonel Boyce Combe was transferred in from the 10th Hussars.\n\nFrom June 1886 to April 1888 French was stationed at Norwich with the regiment. He became Commanding Officer of the 19th Hussars—still aged only 36—on 27 September 1888. He impressed Evelyn Wood by his initiative in organising his regiment into squadrons commanded by majors.\n\nHe was promoted brevet colonel (7 February 1889), and was posted to India in September 1891. There, at cavalry camp during an exercise in November 1891, he first met Captain Douglas Haig, with whose career his own was to be entwined for the next twenty-five years. French became Assistant Adjutant-General of Cavalry in 1893.\n\nIn India serving initially at Secunderabad and Bangalore, French worked closely with George Luck, a noted trainer of cavalry, albeit with perhaps an excessive emphasis on parade-ground drill. French commanded a brigade of Indian Cavalry on manoeuvres near Lahore in January 1893. He seems not to have acquired the deep affection for India common in officers who served there.\n\nFrench’s wife did not accompany him to India (they seem to have lived apart for a while after his return from Egypt, although if so they must have been reconciled as his daughter Essex was conceived in 1886). When commanding the 19th Hussars in India French was cited for adultery with the wife of a brother officer during his leave (inevitably christened \"French leave\" by his colleagues) in the Indian hills; he was lucky this did not terminate his career. There were also unsubstantiated rumours that French had had affairs with the daughter of an Anglo-Indian railway official and also, earlier in his career, with his commanding officer’s wife. A later tale, that he had once been the lover of the Irish nationalist Maud Gonne, appeared in Mary Colum's \"Life and the Dream\" (1947), although his biographer comments that it \"lacks firm evidence.\"\n\nHe was on half-pay in 1893–95, possibly as a result of the Indian divorce scandal, and reduced to bicycling with his sons as he could not afford to keep horses. According to his son Gerald he would hop alongside the bicycle as he never mastered the art of mounting it.\n\nTwo years on half pay would normally have meant compulsory retirement but in autumn 1894 he temporarily commanded a cavalry brigade under Lieutenant General Sir James Keith-Fraser on the manoeuvres in the Vale of the White Horse in Berkshire. French commented that the role of modern cavalry was not to \"cut and hack and thrust\" but rather to herd the enemy within range of friendly artillery. His handling of the brigade was seen as one of the few successful parts of the manoeuvres, and Luck replaced Keith-Fraser as Inspector General. The introduction of cavalry brigades was also an innovation, supported by French.\n\nBuller got him a job as Assistant Adjutant-General at Army Headquarters on 24 August 1895, writing a new cavalry training manual (in practice extensively assisted by Captain Douglas Haig). However, Buller had been Adjutant-General since 1890, and French’s appointment coincided with Luck’s arrival as Inspector-General, suggesting that Luck’s influence was more important. Ian Beckett agrees, adding that French was also a protege of the influential General Evelyn Wood.\n\nFrench went on to be Commander of the 2nd Cavalry Brigade at Canterbury on 1 May 1897 and Commander of the 1st Cavalry Brigade at Aldershot Command on 12 January 1899.\n\nHaig, recently returned from the Sudan War, was French's brigade-major at Aldershot. French was promoted temporary major-general early in 1899. There were some accusations that these promotions, for a man whose career had so recently nearly ended, relied too much on powerful patrons. Early in 1899, at his own request, French borrowed £2,500, in a formal contract with interest, from Haig. He was within 24 hours of bankruptcy—which would have required him to resign his commission—after unwise investments in South African mining shares (Transvaal Golds), which crashed in value as war loomed. Richard Holmes believed the loan was never repaid, but Haig's biographer Walter Reid believes that the loan was probably repaid in 1909.\n\nFrench embarked from Southampton for the Second Boer War on 23 September 1899, inviting Haig to share his cabin. War had not yet officially been declared when French put to sea. British troops were being sent in the hope of intimidating President Kruger of the Transvaal into granting voting rights to the Uitlanders—non-Boer settlers—which would break the Boer stronghold on political power. It had the opposite effect, as the Boers issued their own ultimatum on 9 October, while the British troops were still at sea, in the hope of provoking an anti-British rising by the Boers of the British-ruled Cape Colony. He was appointed both a major-general on the staff and a local major-general.\n\nFrench arrived at Cape Town on 11 October. He had expected to command a cavalry brigade under Lieutenant General White in Natal, White also had the equivalent of a division of infantry but Colonel Brocklehurst was appointed to this command, while French and Haig were ordered to Natal \"for the present,\" which they guessed correctly meant that they were to take charge of the Cavalry Division when Buller’s Army Corps arrived. After steaming to Durban French and Haig arrived in Ladysmith at 5.40am on 20 October, just as hostilities were beginning.\n\nOn the morning of his arrival, French was ordered to investigate reports that the Boers had taken Elandslaagte, north-east of Ladysmith, cutting communications with Major General Symon’s force at Dundee. Taking with him the 5th Lancers, six squadrons of Natal Carbineers and Natal Mounted Rifles, a battery of field artillery and a brigade of infantry under Colonel Ian Hamilton, he made contact with the Boers at 13.00 that day. White was initially cautious but on 21 October, having learned of Symons’ victory at Talana the previous day, he permitted French to attack. Concerned at French’s lack of experience at commanding infantry, White initially proposed that his chief of staff Maj-Gen Hunter take command, but Hunter advised that French should be left in command. White himself came merely to observe, satisfied that the infantry were in Hamilton’s capable hands. French enjoyed numerical superiority of around 3:1.\n\nElandslaagte saw British cavalry charge with the lance, cutting down fleeing Boers amid gory scenes described by one British officer as \"most excellent pig-sticking\". This was portrayed as proving the continued relevance of old-fashioned cavalry charges, but in fact owed much to special circumstances: the success of Hamilton’s preceding infantry attack, and the fact that the charge was carried out at dusk. French celebrated the anniversary of this small battle for the rest of his life. At the time it was seized on by the press in Britain.\n\nThat night White ordered all British forces to fall back on Ladysmith, where it was soon clear that they were about to be besieged by the combined Transvaal and Orange Free State forces. French spent much of the 26 and 27 October patrolling around the advancing Boer forces. On 30 October his cavalry fought dismounted at Lombard’s Kop north-east of Ladysmith; this was the right flank of three unsuccessful actions—the others being Nicholson’s Nek and an infantry action at Long Hill in the centre which ended in near-rout—fought by White’s troops on \"Mournful Monday\".\n\nAlthough French pointed out that cavalry were unlikely to be of much use in a besieged town, White refused him permission to break out. On 2 November, after he had spent the morning on a raid on a Boer laager, French received orders to leave Ladysmith. French and Haig escaped under fire on the last train out as the Boer siege began; Boers tore up the track minutes after the train passed. Steaming from Durban on 3 November, he arrived at Cape Town on 8 November, meeting with Buller, whose Army Corps was then arriving.\n\nFrench was initially ordered to assemble the Cavalry Division at Maitland, near Cape Town. Now a local lieutenant general like Buller's other four division commanders, he was then ordered to take command of forces covering the Colesberg area, filling in the gap between Methuen's division (operating at Orange River Station, with a view to relieving Kimberley and Mafeking) and Gatacre’s Division at Stormberg. On 18 November he went up to De Aar, nearer the front, to confer with Maj-Gen Wauchope, in charge of the lines of communication.\n\nFrench arrived at Naawpoort on the afternoon of 20 November, and personally led a reconnaissance the following morning. The Boer force of General Schoeman had been reinforced by local Boers, and French, not strong enough to attack Arundel directly, conducted an active defence. At one stage, in late November and until 14 December, he was also required to extend his forces east to Rosmead to protect the railway to Port Elizabeth on the coast. A Boer penetration here would have cut off Cape Colony from Natal. French was proud of having achieved \"moral ascendancy\" (keeping the initiative, in modern parlance) over the Boers despite his force of 2,000 men being outnumbered by two to one. French's subordinate Colonel T.C. Porter won a small action near Vaal Kop on 13 December, but the Boers captured that place on 16 December, causing French to go forward and take personal command. Around this time he offered to cancel his plans to advance on Colesberg and lend his cavalry to Methuen, who had been defeated at Magersfontein, but this was rejected as there was insufficient water even for Methuen's own horses in the Modder River sector.\n\nBetween Field Marshal Frederick Roberts' appointment as Commander-in-Chief on 17 December 1899 (following the defeats of Black Week) and arrival at Cape Town on 10 January, French was the only senior British commander to conduct active operations. Although Schoeman’s force had grown further in size, he had lost the confidence of his subordinates and, after a Boer council of war, fell back on a strong position surrounded by hills at Colesberg (29 December) just as French had been preparing to outflank him. French instead (1 January 1900) pinned down the Boer forces and turned their right flank (the British left). The fighting went on until 25 January, with French several times attempting to turn the Boer flanks but pulling back as his forces ran into resistance.\n\nFrench did not succeed in capturing Colesberg, but he had prevented a Boer invasion of the Cape and tied down Boer forces which might have been used elsewhere. Amery's \"Times History\", highly critical of British generalship during this period, later wrote of his \"almost unbroken series of successes\", showing grasp of tactics and skill at throwing every available man into battle at the exact right moment. Cavalry—often fighting dismounted—never made up more than half of his force, and were usually outnumbered three-to-one by Boer cavalry. There were some accusations that French was a glory-hunter.\n\nFrench was one of the few senior officers to be retained by Roberts. Roberts summoned French to Cape Town on 29 January to inquire about expenditure of horses and ammunition around Colesberg. The plan for the Relief of Kimberley, as the \"Official History\" later put it, \"only incidentally disclosed\" in the meeting. French came away with the impression that he had \"only with difficulty persuaded (Roberts and Kitchener) on 29 January to send the Cavalry Division and himself in command of it\". Given that he received written orders on 30 January, this is unlikely to have been the case, but French’s insecurity was increased by this turn of events—not only did he belong to the wrong faction in the Army—the followers of Wolseley and Buller—now in eclipse, but he had up until now been denied command both of the cavalry brigade in Natal and the Cavalry Division (instead being given \"ad hoc\" forces to command in both cases).\n\nFrench was affectionate about \"dear old Bobs\" but sometimes took a dim view of his military abilities. He correctly predicted that the centralisation of transport would lead to a collapse in supply arrangements. French disliked Nicholson, under whose control Roberts had centralised all transport, and retained autonomy for Cavalry Division transport.\n\nUnlike Roberts, French and Haig believed that cavalry should still be trained to charge with cold steel as well as to fight dismounted with firearms. They appreciated the value of good colonial troops and trained Mounted Infantry, but had already (according to Haig's letter to his sister 8 December 1899) insisted that the New Zealand Mounted Rifles fix bayonets to their carbines to use as lances, and were sceptical about the Colonial \"Skallywag\" units which Roberts was raising. Roberts also appointed the Earl of Erroll as Assistant Adjutant-General (AAG) of the Cavalry Division, with Haig, to whom Buller had promised the job, as his deputy—French did his best to bypass Erroll and work through Haig. On 31 January French returned to the Colesberg front to break up his old command, leaving Maj-Gen R.A.P. Clemens to cover the Colesberg area with a mixed force.\n\nKitchener ordered French (10 February) \"The cavalry must relieve Kimberley at all costs … If it fails neither I nor the Field Marshal can tell what the effect on the Empire may be\". French promised Roberts (10 February) that if he were still alive he would be in Kimberley, where the civilian population was urging Colonel Kekewich to surrender, in five days.\n\nFrench’s Cavalry Division consisted of three cavalry brigades and two brigades of mounted infantry, although the latter did not accompany them when they broke camp at 3 am on 11 March—a separate provisional brigade of mounted infantry was provided instead. Roberts gave an inspirational speech to French’s brigade and regimental commanders. Rather than cross the Modder River directly (Kimberley lay around 25 miles north-east), they made an envelopment move: first over 20 miles south to Ramdam, then about 15 miles east to seize the Riet River Crossings, then about 25 miles (roughly north-north-east) to Klip Drift on the Modder, then another 20 miles north-west to Kimberley. This was to be accomplished across arid land in five days, with much of the travel by moonlight as it was the middle of summer. French carried only six days’ rations for the men and five days’ forage for the horses.\n\nThe force left Ramdam at 2 am on 12 February, with only 4,000 horsemen rather than the 8,000 he had expected to have, but French felt he had to push on rather than wait for straggling units to catch up (the brigades’ staffs were all new, and brigadiers only joined their units in the course of the march). De Kiel’s Drift on the Riet was seized by mid afternoon—French ordered his cavalry to gallop for it as soon as he saw the way was clear—but the crossing was soon in what Haig called \"an indescribable state of confusion\" as Roberts had neglected to order priority for Cavalry Division baggage. Kitchener, arriving in the evening, ordered French to seize Waterval Drift, another crossing a few miles to the northwest where he had left a brigade masking a small Boer force under de Wet. Although this was done, the advance could not be resumed until 10.30am—with the sun high in the sky—on 13 February, and accompanied by five baggage wagons which had managed to get through the logjam at De Kiel’s Drift.\n\nFrench’s division moved in line of squadron columns across a five-mile wide front, halting between 12.30 and 1 pm at the well at Blauuwboschpan, where he left a garrison to hold until the infantry arrived. He brushed aside a small Boer force (perhaps 300 men) which attempted to block his path to the Modder River, but concerned that he might be attacked from the east by de Wet’s main force, moved quickly at 2 pm to seize the crossings at Rondeval and Klip Drift (he aimed to at least threaten two crossings to avoid the delay which had happened at De Kiel's Drift). By 5 pm he was able to send a galloper to Roberts with the message that he was across the Modder. He had lost only three men wounded, although 40 horses had died of exhaustion and over 500 were incapable of further work. French then had to wait a day while Kelly-Kenny’s 6th Infantry Division made a forced march from the Riet Crossings to the Modder Crossings, during which time Cronje, believing French’s advance to be a feint, missed an opportunity to reinforce the area.\n\nEquipped with three days' supplies, French resumed his advance at 9.30am on 15 February. At Abon’s Dam, five miles north of the Modder, French sent his cavalry, supported by the fire of 56 guns, charging up a valley between two Boer held ridges. The charge was led by the 9th and 16th Lancers. The Boer riflemen, perhaps 600 in number, were able to achieve little at ranges of 1,000 yards.\n\nAmery's \"Times History\" later wrote \"the charge at Klip Drift marks an epoch in the history of cavalry\", arguing that French had \"divined\" that a cavalry charge made with \"reckless, dare-devil confidence\" could cut through a line of \"unseen\" enemy infantry who could have resisted a cautious attack by British infantry. The \"Official History\" called it \"the most brilliant stroke of the war\". He was also later praised by the cavalry writer Erskine Childers and by the German history of the campaign, which cited Klip Drift as evidence that cavalry could still charge infantry armed with magazine rifles. These claims were exaggerated. French had attacked a thinly-held part of the line, under cover of artillery fire and dust clouds, inflicting only 20 Boer casualties to sword and lance (as opposed to 60 at Elandslaagte). French himself saw it as a triumph of the cavalry spirit rather than a charge with cold steel \"per se\".\n\nFrench entered Kimberley at 6 pm on 15 February, and was entertained at the Sanatorium by Cecil Rhodes, who soon persuaded him to relieve Kekewich, the military commander of the town. Holmes cites this as an evidence of French’s tendency to take against people based only on superficial evidence.\n\nFrench was congratulated by Roberts, and Queen Victoria praised the cavalry’s \"brilliant success\". For his success with the relief, French was promoted for distinguished service in the field on 21 February 1900, from substantive colonel to supernumerary major-general, and to local lieutenant-general. Although French was later criticised for attacking the Boers around Kimberley on 16 February, Roberts’ orders to pursue the retreating Cronje did not reach him owing to a cut telegraph line, and there is no evidence that Roberts made further efforts to contact him, although French heliographed to request orders.\n\nOrders to pursue Cronje were hand-delivered to French at 10 pm on 16 February. French had only 1,500 mounted men and 12 guns fit for duty after their recent exertions—one regiment recorded (17 February) that only 28 of its horses could \"raise a trot\"—but, setting out at 3 am on 17 February, he and Broadwood led an advanced guard on a forced march, twice as fast as Cronje’s force, to intercept them at 10 am as they tried to cross the Modder at Vendutie Drift (a distance of around 30 miles from Kimberley). Outnumbered three to one, and with another 2,000 Boers close by, French held his position long enough for the British infantry (6th and 9th Divisions) to catch up with Cronje’s army at Paardeberg.\n\nFrench was too far away to interfere in the Battle of Paardeberg, although he sent a message urging caution—Kitchener ignored this and launched a disastrous frontal assault (18 February). French spent the day holding off Boers who attempted to reinforce Cronje’s force. French also prevented the main Boer field army from escaping across the Modder River after the battle.\n\nCronje at last surrendered his field army to Roberts on 27 February. On the morning of Klip Drift French had had 5,027 horses, but by 28 February exhaustion had reduced this number to 3,553. As Roberts prepared to advance on Bloemfontein, French was now (6 March) ordered to take his division and two Mounted Infantry Brigades and swing seventeen miles around the left flank of the Boer position at Poplar Grove on the Modder River, while Roberts’ main force prepared to attack them from the front. Although French now had 5,665 horses again, many of these were of poor quality and sick, and he was short of fodder (horses were entitled to 3 lb of fodder per day, less than half of what they were getting a month earlier). On the basis of incorrect information from Colonel Richardson, Director of Supplies, who had not realised that sick horses were also entitled to fodder, Roberts gave French a dressing-down in front of his brigadiers, for consuming too many supplies. This was probably a turning point in their relationship.\n\nFrench led his men out of camp at 3 am on 7 March, amid confusion as Kelly-Kenny’s Division, which was supposed to follow his, had started an hour earlier owing to unclear orders. The moon had set and French had to halt between 5 am and 5.45 am to await daybreak. By 7 am he had reached Kalkfontein Dam, a march of 12 miles, and spent 45 minutes watering his horses. By 7.30am the Boers began to retreat from their position. Roberts later blamed French for failing to cut them off (and missing a chance to capture President Kruger). French argued that his horses were too weak to do more than trot, and that he was not strong enough as Kelly-Kenny’s men had not yet arrived. He concentrated his Division for a pursuit, but even then was beaten off by the Boer rearguard. The \"Official History\" supported French’s decision, although some felt that French was giving less than wholehearted co-operation after his unjustified public rebuke over the fodder issue. Holmes suggests that French carried out a plan in which he had no confidence because of Roberts' reputation for ruthlessness with unsatisfactory officers.\n\nFrench and Haig were sceptical about the riding abilities of Mounted Infantry, and felt that Roberts was wasting too many horses on them (Haig letter to his sister 16 March 1900) and that the cavalry had been \"practically starving\" since 11 February. Bloemfontein fell on 13 March, and soon suffered an outbreak of typhoid. In an implicit criticism of Roberts, French recorded (22 March 1900) that there \"would be a grand opportunity for a great strategist at the head of affairs\". With Roberts’ main army immobilised by disease at Bloemfontein, de Wet was still active making raids around the British periphery. Roberts eventually (20 March) sent French with a single cavalry brigade and some guns and Mounted Infantry in a vain attempt to intercept Olivier’s column (numbering 6,000–7,000 men) at Thabanchu. French made another raid to Karee Siding (29 March)—but until the middle of April he devoted most of his energies to inspecting the horses, many of them Argentinian, with which his division was being remounted.\n\nFrench was summoned to see Roberts (5 April 1900), who told him (5 April 1900) that the fighting at Poplar Grove proved that the future lay with Mounted Infantry. French wrote to Colonel Lonsdale Hale, former Professor at Staff College, (12 April 1900) for speaking out for the idea of cavalry against the \"chatter and cackle\" of its opponents, quoting the opinion of a German officer that Mounted Infantry were too poor at riding to fight effectively. French also clashed with Edward Hutton (14 April) when he asked for French’s cavalry to be used to relieve his mounted infantry on outpost duty.\n\nOn the march to Pretoria (early May 1900) French’s three brigades made up the left wing of Roberts’ main thrust. (Other thrusts were by Mahon and Hunter over the Bechuanaland border, by Buller up from Natal and a semi-independent command under Hamilton, which might have been French’s had he not been out of favour.) French lost another 184 of his still unacclimatised horses making— on Roberts’ orders —a forced march to the Vet River.\n\nBotha was now making a stand along the River Zand, in front of the Orange Free State’s temporary capital at Kroonstad. French was ordered to encircle Botha from the left, accompanied by Hutton’s Mounted Infantry, while Broadwood struck from the right. Roberts over-ruled French’s wish to make a wide encirclement and ordered a shallower one—this lost the advantage of surprise, and Botha pulled his forces back so that French ran into strong resistance on 10 May. Roberts now ordered French to pull back and make a deeper encirclement as he had originally proposed, with a view to cutting the railway behind Kroonstad. However, French’s cavalry were now too tired, after an advance of forty miles, to achieve much, and Botha’s army escaped. The \"Times History\" later praised French’s rapidity of movement but criticised him—unfairly in Holmes’ view—for failure to concentrate his forces.\n\nRoberts halted in Kroonstad to repair the railway and refit between 12 and 22 May. New horses arrived for French, but a third of them were unfit for action, and French and Hutton were only able to muster 2,330 effectives. French and Hamilton were now sent to threaten Johannesburg from the left.\n\nRoberts entered Johannesburg (31 May) and Pretoria (5 June), although without pressing Botha to a decisive battle in either case. French correctly dismissed talk of victory as premature, and continued to spend much of his time inspecting remounts—the job of Director of Remounts at Stellenbosch had been given to an incompetent and manic depressive officer, who eventually shot himself. French played a key role at the victory over Louis Botha at Diamond Hill (11–12 June) in the north-east Transvaal. French, leading one of his own brigades in the usual encircling movement, came under heavy fire—a medical major was shot at his side—but held his position despite Roberts’ permission to withdraw.\n\nIn mid-July French operated against de Wet’s guerrilla force around Pretoria, although he did not understand that this was an autonomous force, and advised Roberts that the best defence would be to continue to attack Botha’s main army. French was then recalled to take part in another attack on Botha’s army, but once again Roberts vetoed French’s proposal of a deeper encirclement (on the British right this time), allowing Botha’s army to escape.\n\nIn late July 1900 Pole-Carew, commander of 11th Division, refused to accept French’s orders. French at first asked to be relieved of responsibility for Pole-Carew’s sector, but matters were patched up after what French described as a \"somewhat stormy\" meeting.\n\nBy August 1900 the Boer forces had been pushed into the northeast Transvaal. French was holding a position beyond Middelburg, maintaining moral ascendancy over the enemy by active probing and patrolling as he had around Colesberg earlier in the year. Roberts’ plan was to push slowly eastward along the Delagoa Bay railway connecting Pretoria with the sea, while he ordered French to co-operate with Buller as he marched up from Natal. French wrote (24 August) \"We sadly want someone in Chief Command here\". Roberts at first refused French permission to concentrate the Cavalry Division for an outflanking move towards Barberton, an important Boer depot, and when he at last gave permission in late August Botha’s force had retreated too far to be encircled as French had intended. Barberton is surrounded by 3,000 feet mountains, and French once again made a bold encircling move—first (9 September) south from the railway to Carolina, deceiving the Boer commandos that he intended to move southwest. He then moved back, and personally led his 1st Cavalry Brigade up a bridle path through the mountains ready to attack Barberton from the west. As soon as Scobell, who had been sent around with two squadrons of the Greys, heliographed that he had cut the railway, French led his men down into the town. Scobell captured £10,000 in gold and notes, while French telegraphed to Roberts: \"Have captured forty engines, seventy wagons of stores, eighty women all in good working order\". Boer sniping from the hills ceased after French threatened to withdraw his men and shell the town.\n\nThe war seemed over as Kruger left the country on 11 September 1900 (he sailed to the Netherlands from Portuguese Lourenco Marques on 19 November 1900). French was promoted from supernumerary to substantive major-general on 9 October 1900, whilst continuing to hold the local rank of lieutenant-general.\n\nFrench’s colonials were sent home and replaced by regular Mounted Infantry. Roberts told French (31 October, 10 November) that the Cavalry Division was to be broken up, although he would retain \"nominal command\", and gave him command of Johannesburg Area, a triangle encompassing Johannesburg-Klerksdorp-Vereeninging. On 11 November Roberts summoned French to discuss the question of cavalry armament.\n\nOn 13 December 1900 Smuts and de la Rey attacked a British force at Nooitgedacht. On 17 December 1900 Kritzinger and Herzog invaded Cape Colony, hoping to stir up rebellion among the Cape Boers (who were legally British subjects). Although Kitchener had a paper strength of 200,000 men in early 1901, so many of these were tied down on garrison duty that French had only 22,000 men, of whom 13,000 were combatants, to fight 20,000 Boer guerrillas.\n\nBy April 1901, after three months campaigning, French’s eight columns had captured 1,332 Boers and 272,752 farm animals. French was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath (KCB), for his role in the conventional phases of the war (the award was dated 29 November 1900 and gazetted in April 1901, but French did not receive the decoration itself until an audience with King Edward VII at Buckingham Palace on 8 August 1902).\n\nOn 1 June 1901 Kitchener ordered French to take command in Cape Colony. He was ordered to use \"severity\" (italics in the original) against captured rebels—this was intended to complement lenient treatment for those who surrendered voluntarily. French (8 June) ordered the President of the Standing Court Martial to be ready to proceed \"with the utmost rigour\". Milner had already warned French at the time of the Colesberg operations (30 December 1899) not to treat every Cape Boer as a rebel unless it was proven so. French, who had lost several friends during the war, believed that stern measures would help end matters more quickly. On 8 July 1901 he gave short shrift for a deputation which sought clemency for some rebels sentenced to execution. French even forced the inhabitants of Middelburg to watch one hanging, incurring a concerned inquiry from St John Brodrick (Secretary of State for War), who was also vainly urging Kitchener to greater leniency.\n\nDuring this period of the war—conducting \"drives\" across the country for Boer guerrillas, and eventually dividing up the country with barbed wire and imprisoning Boer civilians in camps—French had to struggle with out-of-date information, and trying to maintain communications between British forces by telegraph, heliograph and dispatch rider. Kritzinger was driven out of the Cape in mid-August 1901, and Harry Scobell captured Lotter’s commando (5 September 1901). On 7 September Smuts defeated a squadron of Haig’s 17th Lancers at Elands River Poort. Gideon Scheepers was captured (11 October).\n\nFrench had a serious personality clash with the ascetic Kitchener, worsened by both men’s obstinacy; French would later have a poor relationship with Kitchener during the First World War. Although he had been unimpressed by his handling of Paardeberg, he seems to have broadly welcomed his appointment as Commander-in-Chief, not least because he was not as opposed as Roberts to the \"arme blanche\". In August 1900 Kitchener praised French to the Duke of York (later King George V) and wrote to Roberts that French was \"quite first rate, and has the absolute confidence of all serving under him, as well as mine\".\n\nKitchener wrote to Roberts praising French for the capture of Lotter’s commando, but by 17 January 1902 he wrote to Roberts \"French has not done much lately in the colony. I cannot make out why, the country is no doubt difficult but I certainly expected more.\" After meeting French at Nauuwport Kitchener recorded (14 February 1902) \"he was quite cheerful and happy about progress made, though it appears to me slow\". Ian Hamilton, now Kitchener’s chief of staff, wrote that French was \"very much left to his own devices …he was one of the few men that Kitchener had trusted to do a job on his own\".\n\nKitchener later wrote of French \"his willingness to accept responsibility, and his bold and sanguine disposition have relieved me from many anxieties\". Kitchener wrote of him to Roberts: \"French is the most thoroughly loyal, energetic soldier I have, and all under him are devoted to him—not because he is lenient, but because they admire his soldier-like qualities\".\n\nRoberts (now Commander-in-Chief of the Forces in London) ordered French to convene a committee to report on cavalry tactics; French replied (15 September 1901) that he was consulting his regimental commanders, and accepted that cavalry should fight dismounted with firearms, but that they needed a new and better sword. French was appointed (23 October 1901) to command 1st Army Corps at Aldershot, in place of the disgraced Buller. French wrote to thank Roberts, to whose recommendation he guessed – correctly – that he owed the job, but also wrote to Buller, stressing that he had not been \"offered\" the position, but had been appointed to it by the King (i.e. suggesting that he had had little option but to accept).\n\nThe report on cavalry tactics (8 November 1901) demanded an effective rifle for cavalry rather than the existing carbine, but only as a \"secondary\" weapon. Roberts (10 November 1901) ordered cavalry to give up their steel weapons for the duration of the campaign, over the protests of French who argued that this was making the Boers tactically bolder. In early November 1901 French, who was by now reliant on methodical operations and excellent Field Intelligence, was infuriated by Kitchener’s attempt to micromanage operations. In March French had expected the war to drag on until September 1902, but Kritzinger was captured in mid-November. French continued to lobby about cavalry tactics, agreeing (21 February 1902) with the Mounted Infantry expert Maj-Gen Edward Hutton that it was \"the bullet that kills\" but that the important matter was \"the moral power of cavalry\".\n\nThe war ended at the start of June 1902, after over a month of negotiations. French was ordered to return home on the same ship as Lord Kitchener;\nthey returned to Southampton on 12 July 1902, and received an enthusiastic welcome with thousands of people lining the streets of London for their procession through the city. At the peace he was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG) in recognition of his services in South Africa, an unusual award for a soldier. He also received honorary degrees from Oxford and Cambridge Universities and the freedom of a number of cities and livery companies.\n\nIn September 1902, French accompanied Lord Roberts and St John Brodrick, Secretary of State for War, on a visit to Germany to attend the German army maneuvers as guest of the Emperor Wilhelm. \n\nFrench took office as Commander-in-Chief of 1st Army Corps at Aldershot Command, from 15 September 1902. He was promoted to permanent lieutenant general for distinguished service in the field on 31 October 1902. He attracted the attention of Lord Esher when he testified before the Elgin Commission. Esher reported to the King (27 February 1903) that he regarded French as the outstanding soldier of his generation, both as a field commander but also as a thinker. However, Balfour (Prime Minister) blocked French’s appointment to the Esher Committee.\n\nFrench was proposed as a potential Chief of Staff in 1903–04. Esher wrote \"he has never failed\" while Admiral Fisher—who stressed French’s excellent record in South Africa, his skill as a judge of men, and his openness to army-navy operations—wrote \"plump for French and efficiency\", although with growing friction over war planning, Fisher hoped that French would be an ally in opposing Army plans for deploying an expeditionary force to Europe. French’s appointment was—to his relief, as he did not relish having to fight with Arnold-Forster over his mooted reforms—vetoed by King Edward VII, who thought him too junior for the post. Esher pressed Neville Lyttelton, who was appointed instead, to give French as free a hand as possible.\n\nFrench had been insisting since January 1904 that, irrespective of what reforms the War Secretaries Brodrick or Arnold-Forster were pushing through, I Corps should be the Army’s main strike force with at least one of its divisions kept up to strength for service overseas, and managed to force his view through the Army Council in August 1904. French may have privately shared the doubts which others had about his intellectual capacity, but Esher wrote of him that his grasp of strategy and tactics broadened, and, although naturally gregarious, he became more aloof and solitary as he prepared himself for high command. In 1904 French urged the adoption of the 18 pounder field gun on Esher. He also recognised the importance of howitzers. At the 1904 Manoeuvres French commanded an \"invasion force\" which advanced inland from Clacton—many horses and supplies were lost, which apparently persuaded French that an enemy would find it hard to invade Britain successfully. In October 1904 French won Fisher’s approval with a paper on the strategic importance of the Dardanelles.\n\nFrench threatened resignation unless his aide de camp Major Algy Lawson, who had not attended Staff College, was appointed Brigade-Major of the 1st Cavalry Brigade. He suspected a War Office plot led by the rising staff officers Henry Rawlinson and Henry Wilson, whom at this stage he distrusted. Despite being advised by Esher that this was not a sufficiently serious matter to justify such obstinacy, French got his way (December 1904) by threatening to appeal to the King. He also got his way over a similar matter involving Esher’s son Lt Maurice Brett, who served as French’s ADC, and on this occasion did approach the King’s secretary (February 1905).\n\nFrench was given General Officer Commanding-in-Chief status at Aldershot on 1 June 1905. He was on the Committee of Imperial Defence in 1905, possibly because of his willingness to consider amphibious operations including at various times, in the Baltic and on the Belgian Coast. Philpott discusses French's significant influence on pre-war strategic planning. He generally confined his advice to practical questions such as the difficulties of keeping horses at sea for long periods. French had a poor regard for staff officers and had poor relations with the general staff. At one meeting of the CID he became scarlet and speechless with rage while listening to Lyttelton proposing that Egypt could be defended by warships in the Suez Canal.\n\nOn 19 December 1905 and 6 January 1906, as a result of the First Moroccan Crisis, French was one of a four-man committee convened by Esher to discuss war planning: the options were purely naval operations, an amphibious landing in the Baltic, or a deployment of an expeditionary force to France. At the second meeting French presented a plan for deployment to France or Belgium ten days after mobilisation, possibly mobilising on French territory to save time. Although French helped to draw up deployment plans as asked, it is not entirely clear from the surviving documents that he wholeheartedly supported such a commitment to France (\"WF\"—\"With France\"—as this scheme was known) until he was eventually persuaded by Henry Wilson, and he did not entirely rule out an amphibious landing in the Baltic. He also maintained an interest in a possible deployment to Antwerp.\n\nFrench generally had good relation with Haldane, the new Secretary of State for War, but lobbied him against cutting two Guards battalions (the Liberals had been elected on a platform of retrenchment). In February 1906 French told Major General Grierson (Director of Military Operations) that he was to be Commander-in-Chief of the BEF during the next war, with Grierson as his chief of staff. He had meetings with Grierson throughout March until the Moroccan crisis was resolved. French told the \"Daily Mail\" (12 May 1906) that a force of trained volunteers would deter an enemy invasion. In June 1906 French still believed that another war scare might come soon, and in July he attended French Army manoeuvres in Champagne, by which he was impressed, although he was less impressed by the Belgian Army. On this trip he was accused of giving unauthorised interviews to the French press, after uttering what Grierson called \"a few platitudes\" to the \"Figaro\" correspondent.\n\nHaldane confirmed to Esher (26 September 1906) that French was to be Commander-in-Chief of the BEF during the next war. He visited France unofficially in November 1906 in an attempt to improve his French, although he never became fluent in the language. A Special Army Order of 1 January 1907 laid down that in the event of war Britain would send an Expeditionary force of six infantry and one cavalry division to assist the French. French was promoted to full general on 12 February 1907. In the summer of 1907 he entertained General Victor Michel, French Commander-in-Chief designate, at Aldershot to observe British manoeuvres.\n\nFrench testified to the Elgin Commission that cavalry should be trained to shoot but that the sword and lance should remain their main weapons. Hutton wrote to French (1 April 1903) that cavalry should retain some shock capacity but that the real issue was recruiting \"professional\" officers in place of the present rich and aristocratic ones. French strongly disagreed, although he remained on friendly terms with Hutton and recognised that the expense of being a cavalry officer deterred many able young men. The Adjutant-General's memorandum (10 March 1903) recommended the retention of the sword—which Roberts had wanted replaced by an automatic pistol—but not the lance. Roberts also chaired a conference on the topic six months later, at which Haig was the leading traditionalist. Haig's heavily traditional \"Cavalry Training\" appeared in 1904, leaning heavily on the 1898 Cavalry Drill Book which he had helped French to write, although with a \"reforming\" preface by Roberts.\n\nIn response to a request from Arnold-Forster, French submitted a memorandum (7 March 1904) arguing that cavalry still needed to fight the old-fashioned way as a European War would begin with a \"great cavalry battle\". He also sent a copy to the King. In response to Roberts’ claim that he wanted to give cavalry the ability to act independently, French wrote in the margin that the campaigns of early 1900 \"had\" seen cavalry acting independently, although he replied politely that their differences were not as great as Roberts seemed to think. Roberts had the support of Kitchener (who thought cavalry should be able to seize and hold positions, but not to roam about the battlefield looking for enemy cavalry), but he was away as Commander-in-Chief, India. French was supported by Baden-Powell (Inspector-General of Cavalry), Sir Francis Grenfell (who commented that he had not spoken to any junior officer who agreed with Roberts) and Evelyn Wood. In February 1905, after Roberts' removal as Commander-in-Chief, the Army Council authorised the publication of Haig’s \"Cavalry Training\" but without Roberts’ preface, although the lance was declared abolished as a weapon of war—a decision ignored by French, who allowed his lancer regiments at Aldershot to carry the lance in field training.\n\nThe first edition of the \"Cavalry Journal\" appeared in 1906, promoted by C.S. Goldman, an admirer of French. It was put on an official basis in 1911. \nLieutenant General Friedrich von Bernhardi's \"Cavalry in Future Wars\" was published in 1906, with a preface by French, repeating his arguments that cold steel gave the cavalry moral superiority, and that the next war would see an opening clash of cavalry. French also claimed that Russian cavalry in the Russo-Japanese War had come off worse as they were too willing to fight dismounted—this was the opposite of the truth. The new edition of \"Cavalry Training\" in 1907 reaffirmed that cold steel was the main weapon of the cavalry. However, at the end of the 1908 Manoeuvres French criticised cavalry’s poor dismounted work, and—to Haig’s annoyance—declared that the rifle was cavalry’s main weapon. He also noted that infantry lacked a doctrine for the final stages of their attack, as they closed with the enemy—something which was to prove a problem in the middle years of the Great War. The lance was formally reinstated in June 1909. However, in his 1909 Inspection Report French again criticised cavalry’s poor dismounted work.\n\nAlthough French believed that the \"cavalry spirit\" gave them an edge in action, his tendency to identify with his subordinates—in this case the cavalry, whose identity seemed under threat—and to take disagreements personally caused him to be seen as more of a reactionary than was in fact the case. In the event, cavalry would fight successfully in 1914: the \"cavalry spirit\" helped them to perform well on the Retreat From Mons, while they were still capable of fighting effectively on foot at First Ypres.\n\nThere was general agreement that the greater size of battlefields would increase the importance of cavalry. The publication of Erskine Childers’ \"War and the Arme Blanche\" (1910) with a preface by Roberts went some way to reinstating the reformers’ case. Childers argued that there had been only four real cavalry charges in South Africa, inflicting at most 100 casualties by cold steel, but acknowledged that French, \"our ablest cavalry officer\", disagreed with him. However, in September 1913 the Army Council decreed that Mounted Infantry would not be used in future wars and the two existing Mounted Infantry brigades were broken up.\n\nAfter extensive lobbying by Esher, and with King Edward VII’s support, French was selected as Inspector-General of the Army in November 1907. The appointment was announced on 21 December 1907. Irish MP Moreton Frewen demanded – apparently in vain – a Court of Inquiry into French's dismissal of his brother Stephen Frewen from command of the 16th Lancers during the Boer War, pointing out to Haldane that French was \"an adulterer convicted in a court of law\", for which offence \"Haldane’s late chief\" had \"drum(med) his late chief\" out of public life. French was also appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order in 1907.\n\nFrench openly opposed conscription, thinking Roberts' demand for a conscript army to defend against German invasion \"absurd\". He was generally supportive of the new Territorial Army, although he had some doubts about the effectiveness of Territorial Artillery. In 1907–08 he sat on a CID committee to consider the risk of German invasion—it was decided to retain two divisions at home as a deterrent to invasion, until the Territorial Force was ready. At the August 1908 manoeuvres, French's poor report ended the military career of Harry Scobell, who commanded the Cavalry Division on the exercise, despite being well connected, a personal friend of French, and a successful commander from the South African campaigns. French’s reports showed great interest in trenches, machine guns and artillery. He also believed strongly that peacetime drill, both for infantry and for cavalry, was necessary to prepare men for combat discipline. In the winter of 1908–09 French served on the \"Military Needs of the Empire\" sub-committee of the CID, which reaffirmed the commitment to France in the event of war. He was advanced to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath in the King's Birthday Honours 1909. French courted unpopularity with some infantry officers by urging a doubling in the size of infantry companies. In the winter of 1909–10 he toured British troops in the Far East, and in the summer of 1910 he inspected the Canadian Army, at the request of the Canadian Dominion administration. He declined to express an opinion on the mooted introduction of conscription in Canada, replying that the existing system of voluntary recruitment had not been tested for long enough yet.\n\nThis period also saw the beginning of the feud between French and Smith-Dorrien, his successor at Aldershot with whom he had been on relatively cordial terms at the end of the Boer War. Smith-Dorrien annoyed French by insisting that cavalry improve their musketry, by abolishing the pickets which trawled the streets for drunken soldiers, by more than doubling the number of playing fields available to the men, by cutting down trees, and by building new and better barracks. By 1910 the feud was common knowledge throughout the Army. Smith-Dorrien, happily married to a young and pretty wife, also objected to French’s womanising.\n\nFrench was made an Aide-de-Camp General to the King on 19 June 1911. The Second Moroccan Crisis was occasion for French to push again for greater Army-Navy co-operation. Admiral Fisher, recently retired as First Sea Lord, wrote (20 August 1911) that French had been to see him \"as the tool of Sir William Nicholson. I told him to go to Hell.\" On 23 August Henry Wilson carried a CID meeting with a lucid presentation of the Army’s plans for deployment to France; Admiral Wilson’s plans to land on the Baltic Coast were rejected. French spoke to the Navy Club that year on the need for co-operation between the two services. The autumn 1911 manoeuvres were cancelled, supposedly because of shortage of water but in reality because of the war scare. French accompanied Grierson and the French military attaché Victor Huguet to France for talks with de Castelnau, Assistant Chief of the French General Staff (Wilson—Director of Military Operations since August 1910—had already been over for talks in July). On the journey, French talked of how Douglas and Paget would command armies under him in the event of war, with Grierson as chief of staff. Plans for British deployment were especially welcome as French war plans were in a state of flux, with Joffre having been appointed commander-in-chief designate on 28 July. After his return from France in 1911 French inspected German cavalry manoeuvres in Mecklenburg, and was summoned from his bath to receive the Order of the Red Eagle. On presenting him with a signed photograph of himself the Kaiser told him: \"You may have seen just how long my sword is: you may find it just as sharp\".\n\nIn January 1912 French attended the annual staff conference at Staff College, and was impressed by the quality of the discussion. However, he lectured staff officers that they should not consider themselves the superiors of regimental officers, but that their job was to provide the commander with impartial advice and then endeavour to carry out his wishes.\n\nHe became Chief of the Imperial General Staff (\"CIGS\"—professional head of the Army) on 15 March 1912 although he neither had staff experience nor had studied at Staff College. On his first day as CIGS (16 March 1912) he told his three directors (Wilson—Director of Military Operations, Murray—Director of Military Training and Kiggell—Director of Staff Duties) that he intended to get the Army ready for war. French was receptive to Wilson’s wishes to explore co-operation with Belgium (although in the end the Belgian Government refused to co-operate and remained strictly neutral until the outbreak of war). French had initially been suspicious of Wilson as a Roberts protégé, but in 1906 had supported Wilson’s candidacy for Commandant of Staff College. By 1912 Wilson had become French’s most trusted adviser. On 8 November 1912, with the First Balkan War causing another war scare, Wilson helped French draw up a list of key officers for the Expeditionary Force: Haig and Smith-Dorrien were to command \"armies\", Allenby the cavalry division, and Grierson was to be chief of staff.\n\nIn February 1913 Repington wrote a series of articles in \"The Times\" demanding conscription for home defence. The Prime Minister himself led the CID \"Invasion Inquiry\", on which French sat. The conclusions, which were not reached until early 1914, were that two divisions should be retained at home, reducing the size of the BEF. (French and Roberts had agreed with one another that one division would have sufficed.)\n\nIn April 1913, French told Wilson that he expected to serve as CIGS (extending his term by two years) until 1918, and to be succeeded by Murray. In April 1913 King George V told Seely that he was to make French a field marshal in the next honours. He received the promotion on 3 June 1913.\n\nFrench's efforts \"to get the Army ready for war\" were hampered by budgetary constraints, and he was unsuited by temperament or experience for the job. French caused controversy by passing over four generals for promotion in the autumn of 1913, and angered some infantry officers by forcing through the changes to infantry battalions so that they comprised four large companies commanded by majors rather than eight small companies commanded by captains. French lobbied Seely for an increase in pay and allowances for officers, to widen the social base from which officers were recruited—this was enacted from 1 January 1914.\n\nIn the summer of 1913 French, accompanied by Grierson and Wilson, again visited French manoeuvres in Champagne. After the September 1913 Manoeuvres Repington wrote in \"The Times\" that French had found it difficult to defeat even a skeleton army. Since 1904 French himself had to act as Director of the Annual Manoeuvres, so that although other officers had the chance to learn to handle divisions, he himself had little chance to learn to handle a force of \"several\" divisions. This lack of training may well have been factor in his poor performance in August 1914. The BEF senior officers (French, Haig, Wilson, Grierson and Paget who had replaced Smith-Dorrien by then) met to discuss strategy on 17 November 1913. In his diary Wilson praised \"Johnnie French\" for \"hitting out\" at the Royal Navy over their poor transport arrangements, but recorded his concerns at French's lack of intellect and hoped there would not be a war just yet.\n\nWith Irish Home Rule about to become law in 1914, the Cabinet were contemplating some form of military action against the Ulster Volunteers (UVF) who wanted no part of it, and who were seen by many officers as loyal British subjects. In response to the King's request for his views (the King had also written to the Prime Minister), French wrote (25 September 1913) that the army would obey \"the absolute commands of the King\", but he warned that some might think \"that they were best serving their King and country either by refusing to march against the Ulstermen or by openly joining their ranks\" although he stressed that he wanted to act firmly against dissidents within the army. In December 1913, in his memorandum \"Position of the Army with Regard to the Situation in Ulster\", French recommended that Captain Spender, who was openly assisting the UVF, be cashiered \"pour decourager les autres\".\n\nWith political negotiations deadlocked and intelligence reports that the Ulster Volunteers (now 100,000 strong) might be about to seize the ammunition at Carrickfergus Castle, French only agreed to summon Paget (Commander-in-Chief, Ireland) to London to discuss planned troop movements when Seely (Secretary of State for War) repeatedly assured him of the accuracy of intelligence that UVF might march on Dublin. French did not oppose the deployment of troops in principle but told Wilson that the government were \"scattering troops all over Ulster as if it were a Pontypool coal strike\".\n\nAt another meeting on 19 March French told Paget not to be \"a bloody fool\" when he said that he would \"lead his Army to the Boyne\", although after the meeting he resisted lobbying from Robertson and Wilson to advise the Government that the Army could not be used against Ulster. That evening French was summoned to an emergency meeting at 10 Downing Street (he was requested to come in via the garden, not the front door) with Asquith, Seely, Churchill (First Lord of the Admiralty), Birrell (Chief Secretary for Ireland) and Paget, where he was told that Carson, who had stormed out of a Commons debate, was expected to declare a provisional government in Ulster. French was persuaded by Asquith to send infantry to defend the artillery at Dundalk, and by Seely that a unionist coup was imminent in Ulster. No trace of Seely's intelligence survives. Seely reassured French, who was worried about a possible European war, that \"large mobile forces of the Regular Army\" would not be sent to Ireland unless needed, but he was sure that Ulster would support Britain in that event.\n\nThe result was the Curragh incident, in which Hubert Gough and other of Paget's officers threatened to resign rather than coerce Ulster. French, advised by Haldane (Lord Chancellor) told the King (22 March) that Paget should not have asked officers about \"hypothetical contingencies\" and declared that he would resign unless Gough, who had confirmed that he would have obeyed a direct order to move against Ulster, was reinstated.\n\nFrench suggested to Seely that a written document from the Army Council might help to convince Gough's officers. The Cabinet text stated that the Army Council were satisfied that the incident had been a misunderstanding, and that it was \"the duty of all soldiers to obey lawful commands\", to which Seely added two paragraphs, stating that the Government had the right to use \"the forces of the Crown\" in Ireland or elsewhere, but had no intention of using force \"to crush opposition to the Home Rule Bill\". Gough insisted on adding a further paragraph clarifying that the Army would not be used to enforce Home Rule \"on Ulster'\", to which French added in writing \"This is how I read it. JF CIGS\". He may have been acting in the belief that the matter needed to be resolved quickly after learning from Haig that afternoon that all the officers of Aldershot Command would resign if Gough was punished.\n\nAsquith publicly repudiated the \"peccant paragraphs\" (25 March). Wilson, who hoped to bring down the government, advised French to resign, as an officer could not be seen to break his word, even at the behest of politicians. Asquith at first wanted French to stay on as he had been \"so loyal and well-behaved\", but then changed his mind despite French drawing up two statements with Haldane, claiming that he had been acting in accordance with Haldane's statement in the House of Lords on 23 March. Seely also had to resign. French resigned on 6 April 1914.\n\nFrench had been made to look naive and overly-friendly to the Liberal government. Most officers were Conservative and Ulster Unionist sympathisers, but, with a few exceptions (Kitchener and Wilson's party sympathies were well known), took pride in their loyalty to the King and professed contempt for party politics. French was thought by Margot Asquith to be a \"hot Liberal\". By 1914, he was a personal friend of the Liberal ministers Winston Churchill and Jack Seely and was friendly to Seely when the minister's first wife died in childbirth in August 1913. Meanwhile, Sir Edward Grey wrote \"French is a trump, and I love him\". After 1918 French became a Home Ruler, but at this stage he simply thought his duty to be ensuring that the Army obeyed the government's orders.\n\nAs far back as 20 April 1913, Wilson recorded his concerns that French's friendship with Seely and unexpected promotion to Field Marshal were bringing him too close to the Liberals. Throughout the affair French resisted pressure from Wilson to warn the government that the Army would not move against Ulster, and he had an acrimonious telephone conversation (21 March) with Field Marshal Roberts in which he was told that he would share the blame if he collaborated with the Cabinet's \"dastardly\" attempt to coerce Ulster; French for his part blamed Roberts for stirring up the Incident. Esher, who had written of French (22 March 1914) that he was \"too much in the hands of the politicians\", approved of his resignation, as did H.A. Gwynne, who throughout the crisis had pressed French to tell the Cabinet that the Army would not coerce Ulster, and Godfrey Locker-Lampson MP.\n\nWhile sorting out some papers for his successor Charles Douglas French told Wilson (3 April) that Asquith had promised him command of the BEF in the event of war, although nobody realised how quickly this would come. Margot Asquith wrote that he would soon be \"coming back\", suggesting that Asquith may have promised to appoint French Inspector-General. Churchill described him as \"a broken-hearted man\" when he joined the trial mobilisation of the fleet in mid-July. French was still seen as a potential Commander-in-Chief of the BEF, although even in early August French himself was uncertain that he would be appointed.\n\nThe \"Precautionary Period\" for British mobilisation began on 29 July, the day after Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia. French was summoned by Sir Charles Douglas (CIGS) and told (30 July) he would command the British Expeditionary Force (BEF). There was no other serious candidate for the position. He was first briefly re-appointed Inspector-General of the Army (1 August). Sir John spent much of 2 August in discussions with French Ambassador Paul Cambon. British mobilisation began at 4 pm on 4 August. Until Germany invaded Belgium it was unclear whether Britain would join in the war, but she did so at midnight on 4 August.\n\nFrench attended the War Council at 10 Downing Street (5 August), and there presented the War Office plans (drawn up by Wilson) to send the BEF to Maubeuge, although he also suggested that as British mobilisation was lagging behind France's it might be safer to send the BEF to Amiens (also the view of Lord Kitchener and Lt.-General Sir Douglas Haig). French also suggested that the BEF might operate from Antwerp against the German right flank, similar to schemes which had been floated in 1905–06 and reflecting French's reluctant acceptance of the continental commitment. This suggestion was dropped when Churchill said the Royal Navy could not guarantee safe passage. Kitchener, believing the war would be long, decided at Cabinet (6 August) that the BEF would consist of only 4 infantry divisions (and 1 cavalry); French believing the war would be short, demanded 5 infantry divisions but was over-ruled at another War Council that afternoon. Embarkation began on 9 August.\n\nOn 12 August, French, Murray, Wilson and the French liaison officer Victor Huguet met at French's house at Lancaster Gate and agreed to concentrate at Maubeuge, and after another meeting with Kitchener (who had had an argument with Wilson on 9 August—given Wilson's influence over French this served to worsen relations between French and Kitchener), who still preferred to concentrate further back at Amiens, they left to obtain the Prime Minister's agreement.\n\nFrench crossed to France on 14 August. President Poincaré, meeting French on 15 August, commented on his “quiet manner … not very military in appearance” and thought that one might mistake him for a plodding engineer rather than a dashing cavalry general. French told Poincare that he would not be ready until 24 August, not 20 August as planned. French also met Messimy (French War Minister) and Joffre (16 August). Sir John's orders from Kitchener were to co-operate with the French but not to take orders from them, and given that the tiny BEF (about 100,000 men, half of them regulars and half reservists) was Britain's only army, to avoid undue losses and being exposed to \"forward movements where large numbers of French troops are not engaged\" until Kitchener had had a chance to discuss the matter with the Cabinet.\n\nThe Siege of Liège ended when the last of the Belgian fortresses fell on 16 August and most of the remaining Belgian troops were soon besieged in Antwerp, opening Belgium to the German advance. Previously ardent and bombastic, French became hesitant and cautious, giving different answers about the date when the BEF could be expected to begin operations in the field.\n\nAt his meeting with Joffre (16 August) French had been advised to hurry up and join in Lanrezac's offensive, as he would not wait for him to catch up.\nFrench met General Charles Lanrezac, commanding the French Fifth Army on his right, at Rethel (17 August)—they were met by Lanrezac's Chief of Staff Hely d'Oissel, with the words: \"At last you’re here: it’s not a moment too soon. If we are beaten we will owe it to you\". They conferred in private despite the fact that Lanrezac spoke no English and Sir John could speak little French, Wilson being eventually called over to translate. French asked whether the German advance forces spotted at Huy would cross the Meuse River (a reasonable question, as a westward crossing of the Meuse exposed the BEF to encirclement from the west)—his inability to pronounce the name \"Huy\" caused Lanrezac to exclaim in exasperation that the Germans had probably \"come . . . to fish\"; French understood the tone but not the meaning, and Wilson tactfully translated that the Germans would indeed cross the river. French informed Lanrezac that his forces would not be ready until 24 August, three days later than promised. The French cavalry under André Sordet, which Sir John had previously asked Joffre in vain to be placed under his command, were further north trying to maintain contact with the Belgians. Sir John, concerned that he had only four infantry divisions rather than the planned six, wanted to keep Allenby's cavalry division in reserve and refused Lanrezac's request that he lend it for reconnaissance in front of the French forces (Lanrezac misunderstood that French intended to use the British cavalry as mounted infantry). French and Lanrezac came away from the meeting with a poor relationship. At the time French wrote in his diary that Lanrezac was \"a very capable soldier\", although he claimed otherwise in his memoirs \"1914\". Besides their mutual dislike he believed Lanrezac was about to take the offensive, whereas Lanrezac had in fact been forbidden by Joffre to fall back and wanted the BEF moved back further to clear roads for a possible French retreat.\n\nFrench's friend General Grierson, GOC II Corps, had died suddenly on the train near Amiens and French returned to GHQ on 17 August, to find that Kitchener had appointed Lieutenant General Sir Horace Smith-Dorrien to command, knowing that French disliked him, rather than Plumer (French's choice) or Hamilton (who asked for it).\n\nSpears arrived at GHQ (21 August) and reported to Wilson (French was out visiting Allenby) that Lanrezac did not want to leave his strong position (behind the angle of the Rivers Sambre and Meuse) and \"had declaimed at length on the folly of attack\". Holmes believes French was receiving very bad advice from Wilson at this time, in spite of good air and cavalry intelligence of strong German forces. French set out for Lanrezac's HQ (22 August) but by chance met Spears on the way, who told him that Lanrezac was in no position to attack after losses the previous day at the Battle of Charleroi, which Sir John did not quite believe and that Lanrezac was out at a forward command post. Brushing aside Spears' arguments that another meeting with Lanrezac would help, French cancelled his journey and returned to GHQ; \"relations with Lanrezac had broken down\", writes Holmes, because Sir John saw no point in driving for hours, only to be insulted once again in a language he did not quite understand.\n\nFrench was then visited again over dinner by Spears, who warned him that the BEF was now ahead of the main French line, with a gap of between the British right and Lanzerac's left, exposing the BEF to potential encirclement. Spears was accompanied by George Macdonogh, who had deduced from air reconnaissance that the BEF was facing three German corps, one of which was moving around the BEF left flank, (only three French territorial divisions were to the left of the BEF; Sordet's French cavalry corps was on its way to the British left but its horses were exhausted). Sir John cancelled the planned advance. Also that evening a request arrived from Lanrezac, that the BEF attack the flank of the German forces which were attacking Fifth Army, although he also—contradicting himself—reported that the BEF was still in echelon behind his own left flank, which if true would have made it impossible for the BEF to do as he asked. French thought Lanrezac's request unrealistic but agreed to hold his current position for another 24 hours.\n\nDespite the events of the previous evening, French had—perhaps under the influence of Henry Wilson—reverted to the belief that an advance might again be possible soon. French's and Smith-Dorrien's accounts differ about the conference at 5.30 am on 23 August. French's account in his memoirs \"1914\" stated that he had become doubtful of the advance and warned his officers to be ready to attack or retreat, which agrees largely with his own diary at the time, in which he wrote that he had warned Smith-Dorrien that the Mons position might not be tenable. When \"1914\" was published, Smith-Dorrien claimed that French had been \"in excellent form\" and had still been planning to advance. However, in his own memoirs Smith-Dorrien admitted that French had talked of either attacking or retreating, although he claimed that it had been he who had warned that the Mons position was untenable. Edmonds in the \"Official History\" agreed that French had probably been prepared either to attack or to retreat.\n\nFrench at first believed that the German attacks at Mons were merely trying to \"feel\" the British position and drove off to Valenciennes to inspect a French brigade. On his return he sent a letter to Lanrezac in which he talked of resuming the attack the following day. Wilson had \"calculated\" that the BEF was faced only by one German corps and a cavalry division, and was allowed to draw up orders for an attack the next day. Although Macdonogh warned that the BEF was faced by at least two German corps, French did not cancel the planned advance until a message from Joffre (7 pm) warned that he was faced by at least three German corps, although he still ordered Smith-Dorrien to try to hold his ground. At midnight Spears arrived with the news, which disgusted Sir John, that Lanrezac was falling back, and the French Third and Fourth Armies were also falling back after being defeated at Virton and Neufchateau. Murray summoned the Corps Chiefs of Staff at around 1 am on 24 August and ordered them to retreat. Even after Mons, French still thought that a deeper Allied thrust into Belgium would have disrupted the German advance.\n\nVon Kluck sent von der Marwitz's II Cavalry Corps (3 cavalry divisions) around the British west flank to prevent a British retreat on the Channel ports. Sir John French sent a message (24 August), with an unmistakable tone of pique, to Lanrezac, which Spears insisted on writing down, warning that the BEF might have to retreat southwest towards Amiens on its lines of communication, although it is unclear that this would actually have been practicable if the Germans had actually been moving in force around the British left flank. However, Sir John agreed to Joffre's request that the BEF, now numbering 5 divisions as it had been joined by the 4th Infantry Division, would instead fall back on Cambrai if it had to, so that the BEF could still protect the French left flank. Joffre also sent a further two French reserve divisions to the British left flank, the beginning of the redeployment of French forces which would see Maunoury's Sixth Army form around Amiens and then fight near Paris. French considered, but rejected, the option of sheltering the BEF in the fortified town of Maubeuge, partly out of instinct that the Germans were hoping to tempt him into allowing himself to be besieged there and partly because he remembered that Edward Hamley had likened Bazaine allowing himself to be besieged in Metz in 1870 to a shipwrecked man taking hold of the anchor. French himself issued no direct written orders between 11.15 pm on 21 August and 8.25 pm on 24 August; Terraine argued that this, along with his absence during the battle of Mons (although on the German side von Kluck also played little direct role in the battle), marks the point when he and GHQ began to disengage from active command of the BEF, leaving Smith-Dorrien and Haig in effective control of their corps.\n\nGHQ moved back from Le Cateau to St Quentin on 25 August. French had a long discussion with Murray and Wilson (25 August) as to whether, the BEF should stand and fight at Le Cateau, a position which had been chosen for \"both\" I and II Corps to hold after they had retreated on either side of the Forest of Mormal. II Corps had been harried by German forces as it retreated west of the forest and Wilson and Murray were concerned about the risk of encirclement from the left. Sir John did not agree but wanted to fall back as agreed with Joffre, and hoped that the BEF could pull out of the fight altogether and refit behind the River Oise. Besides concern for his men, he was also worried that he was exposing his small force to the risk of destruction which Kitchener had forbidden. Wilson issued orders to Smith-Dorrien to retreat from Le Cateau the next day.\n\nFrench was awakened at 2 am on 26 August with news that Haig's I Corps was under attack at Landrecies, and ordered Smith-Dorrien (3.50 am) to assist him. Smith-Dorrien replied that he was \"unable to move a man\". This angered French as he was, at that time, fond of Haig. French was woken from his sleep again at 5 am with the news that Smith-Dorrien had decided to stand and fight at Le Cateau, as the Germans would otherwise be upon him before he had a chance to retreat. Insisting that the exhausted Murray not be woken, French telegraphed back that he still wanted Smith-Dorrien to \"make every endeavour\" to fall back but that he had \"a free hand as to the method\", which Smith-Dorrien took as permission to make a stand. French's diary and memoirs omit mention of this telegram. Sir John also sent a message to Lanrezac at 5 am, asking him to assist Haig (on Smith-Dorrien's right), which he agreed to do, although in the event his help was not needed. On waking properly, French ordered Wilson to telephone Smith-Dorrien and order him to break off as soon as possible. Wilson ended the conversation by saying \"Good luck to you. Yours is the first cheerful voice I've heard in three days.\"\n\nFrench and his staff believed that the Cavalry Division had been completely destroyed at Le Cateau (it had in fact suffered no more than 15 casualties) and that 5th Division had lost nearly all its guns, destroying II Corps as a fighting unit (in fact units reassembled after the retreat). French later (30 April 1915) told Haig that he should have had Smith-Dorrien court-martialled after Le Cateau. In his memoirs French later claimed that Smith-Dorrien had risked destruction of his corps and lost 14,000 men and 80 guns (actual losses of each were around half of this number). However, it has also been argued that the vigorous defensive action at Le Cateau relieved the pressure and allowed the troops to re-organise, gather up their supplies, and make a fighting withdrawal.\n\nOn the morning of 26 August, while the Battle of Le Cateau was in progress, Sir John had a hostile meeting with Joffre and Lanrezac at St Quentin. This meeting, held at Joffre's insistence, was the second and last time Sir John met Lanrezac, who attended only reluctantly. He complained of Lanrezac's behaviour, to which Lanrezac \"merely shrugged\" and gave a vague and academic reply. Joffre talked of his \"Instruction Generale No 2\" which talked of a new French Sixth Army forming around Amiens, but although this had been received by GHQ during the night French had not been shown it (Holmes blames Wilson, who had taken charge of the staff as Murray had had a complete collapse). French insisted that he must retreat further, although he agreed to press Kitchener to send the remaining British division bringing the BEF up to six infantry divisions, to France rather than to Belgium. Joffre stayed for lunch (Lanrezac declined to do so), at which the atmosphere improved as he confessed that he too was dissatisfied with Lanzerac. Joffre was surprised at the \"rather excited tone\" in which Sir John criticised Lanrezac, unlike his calm demeanour of a few days' earlier, and came away deeply concerned at the obvious personal friction between French and Lanrezac, but also at Sir John's reluctance to stand and fight.\n\nGHQ fell back to Noyon (26 August). Huguet reported to Joffre (10.15 pm on 26 August) that the British had been defeated at Le Cateau and would need French protection to recover cohesion; he also reported that although the BEF's fighting spirit was undaunted, the British \"Government\" might order the BEF to retreat to Le Havre. Colonel Brecard, another liaison officer attached to the British staff, reported that two out of the five British divisions were destroyed and that, in Wilson's view, the BEF would need a week to refit. Sir John warned Huguet that there would be \"bitterness and regret\" in England over British losses, and Joffre, who had decided to order an attack by Fifth Army to take the pressure off the BEF, visited Sir John at Noyon on 27 August and gave him a message congratulating the BEF for its efforts protecting Fifth Army's flank. In fact Smith-Dorrien's staff were making intense efforts to hold II Corps together, although at a meeting (held at 2 am on 27 August, as Smith-Dorrien had found GHQ's present location with great difficulty) French accused him of being overly optimistic. GHQ moved back to Compiegne on 28 August, although Sir John was able to visit his troops on the march for the first time since 25 August, telling men who were resting on the ground of Joffre's message.\n\nFrench refused Haig permission to join in an attack by Lanrezac, who wrote of French's \"bad humour and cowardice\". Even Spears felt Sir John was in the wrong here. The BEF also did not join in Lanrezac's attack on German Second Army at Guise (29 August). Joffre, who had spent the morning with Lanrezac, was concerned by rumours that the BEF might retreat towards the Channel Ports. He visited French in the afternoon, urging him to hold his place in the line promising that Russian successes would soon allow the Allies to attack. However, French insisted that his forces needed 48 hours of absolute rest, and Murray, whom Joffre noticed had been tugging at French's tunic throughout this, then showed an intelligence report of the strength of the German forces facing the BEF. After Joffre had departed in bad humour, French received an incorrect report that Fifth Army was falling back behind the Oise, and issued orders for the BEF to fall back to Rethondes-Soissons; when he received fresh reports that the French were holding their positions after all he replied that it was too late to cancel his orders. Sir John's opinion of Lanrezac was so low that he did not believe reports of his success at Guise (29 August) until he had sent Seely to interview the French corps commanders.\n\nThe BEF was doing little fighting on 29 August and on 30 August had no contact with the enemy at all, and on that day III Corps (4th Division and 19th Infantry Brigade) became operational under Pulteney. On 31 August the BEF engaged in only a few minor cavalry skirmishes. Losses had indeed been high by Boer War standards, and Sir John, believing them to be greater than they were, and that the Kaiser was making an especial effort to destroy the BEF, believed he was carrying out the \"letter and spirit\" of Kitchener's instructions to avoid undue loss without Cabinet authority.\n\nSpears later wrote of French's coolness and calmness on 30 August, although he also recorded that French no longer took much interest in matters unless they directly impinged on the BEF. Nonetheless a few hours after a meeting with Joffre, Sir John telegraphed him that the BEF would have to leave the line entirely and retreat behind the Seine for up to ten days to refit, tracing supply from St Nazaire and moving the forward base to Le Mans rather than Amiens. Kitchener heard of these plans from the Inspector-General of Communications, and when he demanded an explanation (Sir John's previous messages had been optimistic) French sent a long telegram (31 August) saying he had told Joffre that the BEF was unable to remain in the front line and that he wanted the BEF to move back behind the Seine, and that would take eight days if done at a pace which would not fatigue the troops unduly. He added (contradicting himself somewhat) that he would have preferred Joffre to resume the offensive, but that Joffre was giving the BEF's inability to join in as a reason for not doing so. He thought that the French Army had \"defective higher leading\".\n\nOn 31 August Sir John received messages from Joffre and President Poincare (relayed via Bertie, the British Ambassador) asking him not to withdraw. Joffre pointed out that the Germans were already shifting forces to the East. Kitchener demanded further details, and after showing French's previous message to the Cabinet telegraphed again warning that it was the manner and length of the retreat which concerned the Cabinet. Sir John then replied that the \"shattered condition\" of II Corps had reduced his offensive capability and that the BEF could not withstand an attack by so much as a single German corps. He wrote: \"I do not see why I should again be called upon to run the risk of absolute disaster in order a second time to save (the French).\" He also argued that the best solution would be for the French to counterattack and so \"close the gap by uniting their inward flanks\", although he agreed to halt at Nanteuil, which he expected the BEF to reach the following day, if the French halted their own retreat. Kitchener, authorised by a midnight meeting of whichever Cabinet Ministers could be found, left for France for a meeting on 1 September.\n\nThey met, together with Viviani (French Prime Minister) and Millerand (now French War Minister). Huguet recorded that Kitchener was \"calm, balanced, reflective\" while Sir John was \"sour, impetuous, with congested face, sullen and ill-tempered\". On Bertie's advice Kitchener dropped his intention of inspecting the BEF. They moved to a separate room, and no independent account of the meeting exists. French admitted that Kitchener had taken exception to his tone, and that he had assured him that this was simply in his mind. In his diary Sir John wrote \"we had rather a disagreeable time. I think K found he was making a mistake\". In \"1914\" French later claimed that he had told Kitchener that although he valued his he would not tolerate any interference in his executive authority so long as he remained in command, and that they \"finally came to an amicable understanding\". Terraine dismisses as absurd Sir John's later claims that he resented being called away from GHQ (given that no battle was in progress, and that he had played little directing part in either of the two battles fought so far), and that an inspection of the BEF (by Kitchener, Britain's most celebrated soldier at the time) might have disheartened the men by the implied challenge to French's authority. Terraine suggests that Sir John was more anxious to prevent Kitchener from inspecting the BEF as he might have seen for himself that they were less \"shattered\" than he claimed, and that Haig and Smith-Dorrien might have criticised him if given a chance to speak privately to Kitchener. After the meeting Kitchener telegraphed the Cabinet that the BEF would remain in the line, although taking care not to be outflanked, and told French to consider this \"an instruction\". French had a friendly exchange of letters with Joffre.\n\nFrench had been particularly angry that Kitchener had arrived wearing his Field Marshal's uniform. This was how Kitchener normally dressed at the time, but French felt that Kitchener was implying that he was his military superior and not simply a cabinet member. Tuchman argued that French was particularly conscious of this, as he was known for his own quirks of dress. At Asquith's behest Churchill attempted to act as mediator, exchanging letters with French (4 September), who replied that Kitchener was \"a fine organiser but he never was and he never will be a Commander in the field\". By the end of the year French thought that Kitchener had \"gone mad\" and his hostility had become common knowledge at GHQ and GQG. In \"1914\" French claimed that Kitchener had come to Paris to try to stop him retreating, which was untrue—it was the manner of the retreat, without consultation with Britain's allies, which was the problem.\n\nOn 1 September, while French and Kitchener were meeting, the British fought a small engagement at Néry. The gap between I and II Corps was finally closed for the first time since 25 August, but GHQ had to be evacuated from Dammartin in a hurry under threat from German cavalry, General Macready being left behind in the confusion and General Robertson having to hastily wrap up in newspaper a leg of mutton he had been about to eat.\n\nFrench was pleased at Lanrezac's dismissal (3 September), thinking at first that he had been arrested, and his Military Secretary reported to the King that \"the fat pompous political general\" had been sacked. Franchet d'Esperey, Lanzerac's successor, immediately sent a telegram to Sir John signed \"Franchet d'Esperey KCVO\" promising co-operation.\n\nOn return to GHQ, now at Melun, from visits to troops, including a talk with Haig who agreed with him that the troops needed rest and replacements (4 Sep) he found his staff had agreed to two plans. Murray had been visited by Gallieni (Military Governor of Paris) and Maunoury (French Sixth Army, and currently under Gallieni's command) and had drawn up plans for an attack suggested by them. Wilson, on Sir John's orders, had travelled to meet Franchet d'Esperey and had agreed to the plan which became the basis for Joffre's \"Instruction Generale No 6\". Gallieni was still planning, with Joffre's initial agreement, to attack south, not north, of the Marne, so the result of Murray's orders was that the BEF should fall back another day's march, putting it 15 miles south of where Joffre wanted it to be for his new plan. Sir John at first intended to study the situation before making up his mind.\n\nJoffre sent a copy of his plan to GHQ and asked Millerand to lobby the British Government. Hearing at last that Sir John was willing to co-operate, Joffre arrived for a meeting with French at (2 pm on 5 September). According to Spears' account, he explained his plan (in French), ending by clasping his hands together tightly enough to hurt them and begging \"Monsieur le Maréchal, c'est la France qui vous supplie\" (\"Field Marshal, France is begging you\"). Sir John listened with tears rolling down his reddening cheeks and, unable to find the words in French, replied \"Damn it, I can't explain. Tell him that all that men can do our fellows will do\". When Murray protested that the BEF could not be ready as soon as Joffre hoped, Joffre replied that Sir John's word was good enough for him. Joffre and Gamelin recorded Joffre's words slightly differently in their memoirs, as: \"il y a que l'honneur de l'Angleterre\" (\"the honour of England (sic) is at stake\"), but Spears' account more closely matches the contemporary diaries of Wilson and Clive, and so is in Prete's view more likely to be correct. Although Joffre had dealt tactfully with Sir John (he later claimed in his memoirs that his visit to Melun had simply been to congratulate Sir John on his willingness to co-operate), at a time when he sacked three of his own army commanders (including Lanrezac), ten corps commanders, and thirty-eight divisional commanders— Neillands writes that \"one cannot help wonder\" whether French would not have suffered the same fate had he reported directly to Joffre. Joffre believed at the time that the BEF were technically under his orders and that French's uncooperativeness was because the British government were too weak to insist that he obey orders. French was conscious that he was Joffre's senior in rank and had more combat experience.\n\nThe BEF advanced to take part in the First Battle of the Marne on the morning of 6 September, Sir John's mood marred by a telegram from Kitchener urging him to co-operate with Joffre. This was the result of Joffre's appeal to Millerand, and Joffre repaired the damage by praising the performance of French and the BEF to Kitchener. The BEF began its advance from 20 km behind where Joffre had wanted it. Franchet d’Esperey, to the right of the BEF, was repeatedly demanding a quicker advance, and at 3.30pm Sir John ordered Haig (I Corps, on the BEF right) to resume his advance, but by nightfall Haig was still 12 km away from his objective, having lost only 7 men killed and 44 wounded. The BEF advanced further on 7 September. Lord Ernest Hamilton recorded that “in the strict sense there was no battle … the fighting … was desultory”. Charteris, Haig’s intelligence adviser, thought the advance “absurdly slow” and noted that the cavalry moved \"behind\" the infantry. When the BEF reached the Petit Morin on 8 September, Marwitz’s German cavalry broke off and retreated further, only for the BEF to halt because of a heavy thunderstorm. Joffre urged that it was “essential” that the BEF advance further. By 8 September, despite outnumbering the enemy by 10:1, the BEF had advanced just 40 km in three days.\n\nOn 9 September Sir John, arriving on the spot in person, ordered I Corps to halt as soon as they had reached the main road, a mere 5 miles from the river (at midday Haig, who had halted for four hours after crossing the river after seeing aerial reconnaissance of German forces opposite him, probably Ilsemann’s 5th German Cavalry Division, not IX Corps baggage train as he believed, had just given orders to resume the advance). This prevented I Corps from taking Kraewel’s detachment from the east flank, which would have helped II Corps, which had halted after encountering a mixed brigade at Montreuil-sur-Lions, and was now fighting uphill through woods. On the left Pulteney’s engineers did not have enough pontoons to cross the Marne (70–90 metres wide), and by nightfall half of 4th Division’s battalions crossed on a makeshift floating bridge. The cavalry (\"Gough’s Command\" on the left flank, Allenby’s 1st Cavalry Division on the right, each maintaining contact with the adjacent French forces) was in Hew Strachan’s words “entirely out of the equation”. Sewell Tyng notes that the BEF had “exercised no effective intervention” in the battle and “remained no more than a threat which was never translated into decisive action”, although Herwig points out that the men were exhausted after the long retreat, that the French cavalry performed no better and yet the advance – into the gap between the German First and Second Armies – had a decisive effect on the German commanders.\n\nSir John initially thought (14 September) that the enemy was only \"making a determined stand\" on the Aisne. He urged the importance of entrenching wherever possible (23 September) and stressed (25 September) that heavy artillery would be necessary going forward.\n\nAfter lobbying by Churchill, who was keen to bring the Channel Ports under British control, and by Wilson, French lobbied Joffre (27 September) for the BEF, which was less heavily gunned and more mobile than a similarly-sized French Army, to disengage and try to move around the Allied left flank, part of the outflanking movements known as the Race to the Sea. Joffre agreed in principle, although he had private doubts about having no French troops between the BEF and the sea and later came to believe that this move had, by using up scarce rail capacity for ten days, prevented him from reinforcing Lille and had allowed the Germans to capture it.\n\nThroughout September and October 1914 French warned Kitchener that his forces were running dangerously short of shells, at one point being rationed to 20 rounds per gun per day. French was impressed by the first 9.2-inch howitzers, but very conscious of German artillery superiority, and wrote to Kitchener (24 September) \"Krupp is our most formidable enemy at present\". French took a keen interest in the development of mortars and grenades, although during his time as Commander-in-Chief more were produced at the BEF's own workshops than in the UK. He also pressed the War Office for more machine guns, believing that a battalion needed at least six or seven (as opposed to two at the start of the war).\n\nThe Germans opened fire on the Antwerp outer forts (28 September) and over the opposition of French and Joffre the British 7th Division was earmarked for Antwerp (1 October) instead of for the BEF. Rawlinson's force at Antwerp was not placed under Sir John's command until 9 October, but managed to escape to the southwest the following day. French, who did not get on with Rawlinson, was once again suspicious that Kitchener was attempting to usurp operational control of the BEF.\n\nAfter a temporary stay in Abbeville for five days, GHQ was established in St Omer (13 October) where it was to remain for the rest of French's tenure. When asked to help shore up the Belgian line on his left French said (16 October 1914) \"he would be d-----d if he would be dictated to by Foch who had better mind his own business\".\n\nFrench had thought in mid-October of establishing an \"entrenched camp\" large enough to hold the entire BEF around Boulogne, but was soon persuaded by Foch and Wilson to move around the German flank towards Roulers, rebuking Rawlinson, his command now numbered IV Corps, for failing to take Menin (18 October). The following day he ordered Rawlinson to move on Menin (SE of Ypres) and Haig's I Corps to move on Roulers (NE of Ypres), despite reports that there were at least 3 ½ German corps facing Haig. Sir John had believed the Germans were running out of men (19 Oct), but instead the BEF ran into German forces also trying to turn the Allied flank. At a meeting on 21 October Joffre refused (\"his face instantly became quite square\") to lend him enough men to construct a fortified camp around Boulogne; Joffre instead ordered a French corps (under d'Urbal, whom French was pleased to find was \"the old Murat type of beau sabreur\") to the BEF's left, and French ordered the BEF to hold its positions.\n\nFrench at first reported to Kitchener that the German attacks by Fourth and Sixth Armies were their \"last card\" and the BEF were holding them off. He was unimpressed by Smith-Dorrien telling him (midnight on 25 October) that his Corps \"might go during the night\", although he did send reinforcements. Generals Macdonogh and Radcliffe later testified to the Official Historian Edmonds in the early 1920s that French \"believed what he wished to believe\" and \"never could believe that the Germans were not at their last gasp\". He thought \"everything was going splendidly\" and \"the Germans were exhausted\" until warned of the arrival of German reinforcements, at which point he (allegedly) grew angry and banged his fist on the table shouting \"How do you expect me to carry out my campaign if you carry on bringing up these blasted divisions?\"\n\nFalkenhayn now ordered a new attack south of Ypres, between Gheluveld and Ploegsteert Wood, by \"Army Group Fabeck\". IV Corps was broken up (27 October) and Rawlinson and his staff sent home to supervise the arrival of 8th Division. French still expected to attack, turning the German western flank, on 29 October, and even after the Germans had pressed I Corps hard SE of Ypres that day (he later claimed in \"1914\" to have realised that the BEF could now do no more than hold its ground, but he in fact issued orders for the flanking attack to go ahead on 30 October). Sir John supervised the arrangement of reinforcements from Smith-Dorrien and Dubois' French corps to Haig's and Allenby's hard pressed forces at Ypres (30 October). Once again, the British planned to counterattack, but French was roused from his sleep (12.30 am on 31 October) by Foch, who warned him that his staff had spotted a gap in the British lines at Hollebeke Chateau; Foch advised him to \"hammer away, keep on hammering\" and promised to send a further 8 French battalions and 3 batteries. Sir John spent the crisis day of 31 October visiting Allenby and Gough, and was with Haig when they learned that a single battalion of the Worcesters had retaken Gheluveld (\"The Worcesters saved the Empire\" French later wrote). He then met Foch at the town hall at Ypres to warn him that he had no more reserves apart from \"the sentries at his gate\"—the next day (1 November) Haig's I Corps held its ground, with cooks, grooms and drivers pressed into the line, and aided by French counterattacks which drew off German reserves. The line stabilised, although there was a final day of crisis on 11 November.\n\nThe fighting at Ypres, the last before major trenching began, destroyed the last of the original BEF. Since the outbreak of war the BEF had suffered 90,000 casualties, 58,000 of them in October and November, compared to an initial infantry strength (the first seven divisions) of 84,000. Of those who had landed in August, an average of one officer and thirty men per battalion remained. French was particularly disturbed at the lack of company commanders, and extremely reluctant to send trained officers and NCOs home to train the New Armies.\n\nSir John was unable to get away during the Battle of Ypres to attend the Dunkirk conference (1 November) between Kitchener and Joffre, Foch and Millerand. There Kitchener offered to replace French with Ian Hamilton, but Joffre declined, saying this would be bad for BEF morale and he worked \"well and cordially\" with Sir John. Foch told Wilson of this (5 November). French sent Captain Freddy Guest to complain to the Prime Minister, who refused to believe it, and both Asquith and Churchill wrote French reassuring letters. French went to see Foch (6 November) to thank him for his \"comradeship and loyalty\". This did not stop him writing to Kitchener (15 November) that \"\"au fond\", they are a low lot, and one always has to remember the class these French generals come from\". French talked of inciting H.A. Gwynne to start a press campaign against Kitchener.\n\nOver lunch (21 November) Haig noted that French looked unwell—French told him he thought he had had a heart attack and had been ordered to rest by his doctors. The King visited France (30 November –5 December) and passed on his concerns that the Germans were about to invade Britain with 250,000 men, a rumour which French assumed to have been concocted by Kitchener. French's aides made inquiries—apparently in vain—about an increase in \"table money\" (expenses for entertaining visiting dignitaries) on top of his official salary of £5,000 per annum.\n\nIn late November and early December the Germans moved forces to the East, and French expected the Russians to defeat them soon. In December he offered limited assistance to French attacks, out of affection for Foch and fear that Joffre would otherwise complain to Kitchener, and despite his concerns that the ground on Smith-Dorrien's front was too wet. Foch said of French (8 December 1914) \"How he likes to cry, this Baby\".\n\nThe Foreign Office (9 December) formally asked the French government for the BEF to move to the coast where it could co-operate with the Royal Navy and the Belgian Army, but this was rejected by Millerand on Joffre's advice, and Foch regarded the plan \"with the greatest contempt\", although on a visit to GHQ (11 December) he found Sir John only mildly in favour. A German counterattack (20 December) mauled the Indian Corps, who could not handle the cold, so badly that they had to be pulled into reserve.\n\nFrench was still dissatisfied with Murray's performance as BEF Chief of Staff, but Asquith and Kitchener (20 December) forbade him to replace Murray with Wilson. The BEF was split into Haig's First Army (I, IV and Indian Corps) and Smith-Dorrien's Second Army (II and III Corps and 27th Division), effective 25 December. Allenby's Cavalry Corps and Rimington's Indian Cavalry Corps continued to report directly to French.\n\nAt the Chantilly Conference (27 December 1914) French agreed with Joffre that the British Cabinet was mad. They discussed the relative merits of shrapnel and high-explosive shell, and events on the Eastern Front. Joffre told Sir John of his plans for twin offensives at Arras and Rheims in 1915, the former offensive to be assisted by the BEF, and then a further thrust towards the Rhine from Verdun and Nancy. He agreed that the British could take over line up to the coast but only as further reinforcements arrived, which would not be until much later in 1915.\n\nFrench had hoped to incorporate the Belgian Army into the BEF, but the King of the Belgians vetoed this (2 January). French instead demanded that the New Armies be sent out as battalions and incorporated into existing units (perhaps with battalions combining to form regiments like in continental armies). All the senior commanders agreed that to have the New Armies fighting under their own inexperienced division and corps staff would be folly.\n\nFrench was further irritated by an \"incomprehensible\" letter from Kitchener (2 January) stating that no more troops should remain on the Western Front than were necessary to hold the line, and seeking GHQ's views as to which other theatres British troops should be redeployed. French replied that given sufficient resources he could break the German front, that to attack Turkey would be \"to play the German game\" and that he preferred an advance into Serbia via Salonika, or preferably an attack to clear the Belgian Coast, and that if Russia collapsed the government would have no choice but to send all available troops to France. French also had Murray hand-deliver a copy of this letter to the Prime Minister, earning French a rebuke from Kitchener for not using the normal channels of communication.\n\nThe War Council (7–8 January) discussed French's demand that 50 Territorial or New Army battalions be sent to France, but in the face of Kitchener's strong opposition it was agreed instead to examine the possibilities of other fronts. French, having sent Wilson and Murray on ahead to raise support, himself lobbied the War Council (13 January), informing them that he was stockpiling ammunition, expected only 5,000–8,000 casualties in his forthcoming offensive, and that the Germans were short of manpower and would have reached the end of their resources by November 1915. Although he expected Joffre's offensives in 1915 to be successful, he \"relied on the Russians to finish the business\". Kitchener agreed, but the War Council was then swayed by Churchill arguing for an attack on the Dardanelles, and it was agreed to send French only two Territorial Divisions by mid February.\n\nThe mooted Flanders Offensive was then cancelled altogether after further lobbying of Kitchener by Joffre and Millerand, who visited England especially to demand that the BEF instead take over more French line. Sir John agreed (15 January), as soon as he was reinforced, to relieve two French corps north of Ypres to allow Joffre to build up French reserves for his own offensive. Murray was sent off sick for a month (24 January) and French demanded his resignation, despite Murray insisting that he only needed to take a few days off. Robertson replaced him.\n\nSir John believed (13 February) that the Russian withdrawals were \"only a strategic move\" designed to overextend the Germans. He ordered Haig to prepare for an attack at Aubers Ridge, rather than an attack by Smith-Dorrien at Messines-Wytschaete Ridge, as he had more confidence in both Haig and his troops than he had in Smith-Dorrien. GHQ then learned (16 February) that Joffre wanted de Maud'huy's French Tenth Army to attack at Vimy, with which attack Haig was ordered to co-ordinate his efforts.\n\nAt the War Council (9 February) French learned that the regular 29th Division was to be sent to Salonika rather than to France as he had been promised. Joffre wrote a letter of complaint (19 February) that the BEF might not be carrying out Sir John's promise to take over more line; in reply French summoned the liaison officer Victor Huguet to complain of Joffre's claims that the British had \"demanded\" French participation in the offensive and that they had more men per mile of trench than the French did (much of the French front, as Sir John pointed out, required smaller garrisons as it was of less tactical importance or rougher terrain).\n\nSir John complained (21 February 1915) that Joffre \"treated him like a corporal\", although he thought the French \"gloriously brave\". When he had calmed down he sent Robertson and Wilson to smooth things over with Joffre, writing that Joffre's rude letter had probably been written by \"some upstart young French staff officer\". Even so Joffre was angered by French's formal reply (23 February) and thought that he ought to be able to carry out the planned relief as he was receiving the 46th (Territorial) Division. Haig visited de Maud'huy (28 February) and learned that he would be lending only limited artillery support to the offensive. Joffre told GHQ (7 March) that the offensive must be postponed. Millerand wrote to Kitchener to complain, enclosing another letter of complaint from Joffre. Kitchener (3 March) forwarded both letters to Sir John, along with a letter of complaint of his own (which French described as \"might be written by an old woman … silly trash\"). Joffre thought French (6 March 1915) a \"liar\" and \"a bad comrade\".\n\nFrench genuinely hoped for a breakthrough at Neuve Chapelle (10–12 March 1915) and personally briefed the cavalry commanders Allenby and Rimington beforehand, although, aware of the effect of modern firepower on cavalry, he cautioned Rimington against getting too close to the enemy. He believed that victory would prove to Kitchener that British efforts should be concentrated on the Western Front, and that it would be merely a prelude to a much larger Battle of Lille. French moved to a forward headquarters at Hazebrouck during the battle.\n\nA renewed attack was planned for 22 March, but French was told by Lieutenant-General Maxwell (QuarterMaster General) that sufficient shell was available only for a bombardment half the intensity of Neuve Chapelle, and he was warned by du Cane of defective fuses causing guns to explode (14 March). To some extent the shell shortage was an excuse, as French was also critical of planning errors in First Army's attack. Kitchener told Asquith (18 March) that French was \"not really a scientific soldier; a good capable leader in the field, but without adequate equipment and expert knowledge for the huge task of commanding 450,000 men.\"\n\nFrench's almost daily letters to his mistress in 1915 reveal his wish to see Kitchener sacked, his concern at lack of High Explosive shells, his ambivalent relations with the French (although sympathetic at the political interference which French generals suffered), his anger (shared with many other Western Front generals) at the way scarce men and shells were being sent to Gallipoli, and his belief that the German advance into Russia in 1915 would ultimately fail; he hoped that Germany would sue for peace by the summer of 1915 or spring 1916.\n\nJoffre once again (24 March) renewed negotiations for an Anglo-French offensive in Artois, and once again asked Sir John to relieve the two French corps north of Ypres. He agreed to do so by 20 April, prior to another attack by Haig's First Army. It was still unclear whether or when New Army divisions would be deployed to France.\n\nFrench was rebuked by the King for an interview with the Havas News Agency (24 March), in which he had warned that the war would be long (Northcliffe warned him that this would encourage \"slackers\" at home). French wrote to Northcliffe (25 March) thanking him for his view that efforts should be concentrated on the Western Front rather than dissipated to other fronts as Kitchener wanted. French gave an interview to \"The Times\" (27 March) calling for more ammunition.\n\nFrench breakfasted with Kitchener (31 March) who told him that he and Joffre were \"on ... trial\" over the next five weeks, and that the Allied governments would reinforce other theatres unless they made \"substantial advances\" and \"br[oke] the German line\". There were rumours in both British and French circles, probably baseless, that Kitchener coveted French's job for himself. French also objected (2 April 1915) to rumours that Joffre was trying to put the BEF under Foch's command.\n\nA GHQ Memorandum (4 April) on the lessons of Neuve Chapelle emphasised registration of artillery. The French had achieved better results at Vimy by a long and methodical bombardment. French and Kitchener discussed ammunition (14 April). By April 1915 the BEF had grown to 900,000 men in 28 divisions.\n\nFrench continued to be dissatisfied at Smith-Dorrien's grip on his army and in March was concerned that the rate of sickness was running at three times the rate in Second Army as in First.\n\nThe Germans attacked (22 April) ground which Smith-Dorrien had recently taken over from the French, using poison gas, causing some French units to break on the British flank. Sir John spurred on Smith-Dorrien in costly counterattacks, but thought the French had made \"a horrible mistake\" and \"Joffre … really deceived me\" in holding the line so thinly. French was angry (26 April 1915) that French troops had broken under German gas attack, commenting that French troops had also failed to hold their positions in the retreat of 1914. Smith-Dorrien suggested withdrawing to the so-called \"GHQ Line\". French privately agreed, but was angered that the suggestion came from Smith-Dorrien. Plumer was the given responsibility for the Ypres Salient (27 April). Smith-Dorrien was finally relieved of command of Second Army (6 May).\n\nOn 2 May French, who appears to have persuaded himself that a short sharp bombardment might work once again, assured Kitchener that \"the ammunition will be all right\", a declaration which Kitchener passed on to Asquith. This caused Asquith to claim in a public speech that there was no munitions shortage in the BEF.\n\nThe attack at Aubers Ridge, against stronger German positions, (9 May) failed. French watched the battle from a ruined church and attributed the failure to lack of HE shelling (\"it's simple murder to send infantry against these powerfully fortified entrenchments until they've been heavily hammered\" he wrote to his mistress). He returned to GHQ to find an order to send shells to Gallipoli, although after protest replacement shells were sent from the UK within days.\n\nFighting still continued at Ypres, and Sir John was under pressure from Joffre to renew the attack at Aubers Ridge. Although he would have preferred (10 May) to stand on the defensive until more High Explosive was available, he agreed to Joffre's pressure to take over more French line and renew the attack. Haig also (11 May) favoured a \"long methodical bombardment\".\n\nAfter Aubers Ridge Repington sent a telegram to \"The Times\" blaming lack of High Explosive shell, which despite being heavily censored by Macdonogh was printed after Brinsley Fitzgerald assured him Sir John would approve. French had, despite Repington's denial of his prior knowledge at the time, supplied Repington with information, and Fitzgerald and Freddy Guest were sent to London to show the same documents to Lloyd George and the Opposition leaders Bonar Law and Balfour. Repington's article appeared in \"The Times\" (14 May 1915). Kitchener wrote to French that day that Repington should not be allowed out with the Army, to which French replied that Repington was a personal friend and he (French) \"really ha(d) no time to attend to these matters\".\n\nKitchener, reluctant to deploy the volunteer New Armies to the Western Front, wired French (16 May 1915) that he would send no more reinforcements to France until he was clear the German line could be broken, although at the end of May he agreed to send two divisions to keep Joffre happy. King George V wrote of French at this time to his uncle the Duke of Connaught: “I don’t think he is particularly clever and he has an awful temper” (23 May 1915). Another offensive at Festubert began on the night of 15–16 May and dragged on until 27 May. Some ground was gained (1,000 yards over a 3,000 front) and the Germans had to rush in reserves. French was still optimistic that with sufficient High Explosive a breakthrough for cavalry could be achieved. Whigham (BEF Sub-Chief of Staff) \"was very sick as (at French's behest) he had to cancel & then rewrite his orders\" (Wilson Diary 27 May 1915).\n\nThe Shells Scandal contributed to the fall of the Liberal Government. Although French's involvement was widely rumoured, many, including the Prime Minister, refused to believe it. At the time Esher and others thought a clique of people were acting in what they believed to be French's interests; Margot Asquith and Lord Selbourne suspected French's American friend George Moore. French later claimed in \"1914\" that he had leaked information to Repington to \"destroy the apathy of a Government which had brought the Empire to the brink of disaster\". By the time he wrote \"1914\" he had come to regard Asquith and Haig as responsible for his removal at the end of 1915, but at the time French was still on good terms with Asquith and wrote to him (20 May 1915, the day before the \"Daily Mail\" attacked Kitchener, and whilst Asquith was forming his new coalition government) urging him \"as a friend\" to sack Kitchener. Holmes believes French's object was to bring down Kitchener rather than the whole government.\n\nJoffre often wrote to Kitchener complaining about French. Sidney Clive noted (6 June 1915) that meetings between French and Joffre could be counterproductive as \"the former is irritable & the latter silent\" and that it was best if their staffs agreed on plans beforehand before putting them before the two generals. French thought French War Minister Millerand \"a damned socialist little cad\" (7 June 1915).\n\nJoffre planned once again for attacks by the BEF and French Tenth Army, combined with another French offensive in Champagne. Cavalry, and infantry in buses, were to be ready to exploit as far as Mons and Namur. He wrote to GHQ (12 June) that the ground at Loos (where a British attack could unite with a French attack on Vimy Ridge) was \"particularly favourable\", although Haig reported (23 June) that the planned ground at Loos was unsuitable for an attack. French visited London (23 June) to talk to Kitchener, with Robertson, whose relations with French were breaking down, remaining behind. At a conference at Chantilly (24 June) French and Joffre agreed that further attacks on the Western Front were needed (to do otherwise was \"unfair to Russia, Serbia and Italy\") and that they should ask their governments to send all available troops to France rather than other fronts.\n\nAsquith had a lengthy discussion (26 June) about the desirability of sacking French. Wilson thought him \"ridiculously optimistic about the German state of collapse\" and \"convinced that the Boches are coming near the end of their reserves\" (diary 28 June 1915) while General Haldane thought him \"obstinate and unreasonable\" (Haldane Diary 30 June 1915). After a \"long talk\" with Robertson (1 July) the King became convinced that French should be removed. Margot Asquith warned French (2 July) that his aides Freddy Guest and Brinsley Fitzgerald (whom she thought \"wonderfully unclever\") were making trouble between himself and Kitchener. Kitchener also opposed a major British offensive (Calais Conference, 6 July). Sir John expressed his concern that, although a successful attack was possible, his artillery had less than the 17 rounds per day which he deemed necessary. He was initially sceptical of Haig's reluctance to attack and inspected the ground himself (12 July). Although he felt that the high ground already in British hands would provide good observation, he broadly concurred with Haig's analysis. Robertson also opposed the attack.\n\nHaig discovered (14 July) that the King had lost confidence in French, and discussed the matter with Kitchener. Wilson noted that relations between French and Robertson were breaking down by the summer, and suspected (correctly) that Robertson was blackening French's reputation by sending home documents which French had refused to read or sign. French told Clive (20 July) to inform GQG that ammunition shortage only permitted \"holding\" attacks and then (25 July) announced that there would be no attack at all. However, after an unsatisfactory meeting with Foch the previous day, he wrote a personal letter to Joffre (28 July) leaving the decision in his hands, although he noted concerns in his diary that night that the French attack at Arras would not be \"decisive\". He also noted (diary, 29 July) that the French were annoyed at British strikes and failure to bring in conscription, and might make a separate peace if Britain did not pull her weight, and may also have agreed to the attack because he had learned that his own job was under threat. Kitchener, who had changed his mind, eventually (19 August) ordered the attack to proceed.\n\nFrench went sick in September, Robertson acting as Commander-in-Chief BEF. Both GHQ and First Army persuaded themselves that the Loos attack could succeed, perhaps as the use of gas, whose use by the Germans at Second Ypres had been condemned by Sir John, would allow a decisive victory. Sir John decided to keep a strong reserve consisting of the Cavalry Corps, the Indian Cavalry Corps and Haking's XI Corps, which consisted of the Guards Division and two New Army Divisions (21st and 24th) just arrived in France. French was privately doubtful that a breakthrough would be achieved and was concerned that in the event of failure the government would want to \"change the bowler\" (letters to Winifred 18 and 21 September). Haig (and Foch) wanted the reserves close to hand to exploit a breakthrough on the first day; French agreed to deploy them closer to the front but still thought they should be committed on the second day (Haig wrote (diary 2 October) \"It seems impossible to discuss military problems with an unreasoning brain of this kind\").\n\nWanting to be closer to the battle, French moved to a forward command post at Lilliers, less than 20 miles behind First Army's front. He left Robertson and most of his staff behind at GHQ and had no direct telephone link to First Army. Haig's infantry attacked at 6.30 am on 25 September and he sent an officer by car requesting release of the reserves at 7 am—he did not hear until 10.02 am that the divisions were moving up to the front. French visited Haig between 11 –11.30 and agreed that Haig could have the reserve, but rather than using the telephone he drove to Haking's Headquarters and gave the order personally at 12.10 pm. Haig then heard from Haking at 1.20 pm that the reserves were moving forward, but by the time the men, already exhausted from an overnight march in the rain, reached the front line through the chaos of the battlefield they were committed against strengthened German positions the following morning.\n\nJoffre sent a letter of congratulation (26 September)—Clive sensed that Joffre did not really believe the British attack would succeed but wanted it kept going as a diversion from Champagne, although after complaints from Sir John that the French Tenth Army were not doing enough Foch ordered them to take over some line from the British around Loos. Sir John was still keen for a concerted Anglo-French attack, telling Foch (28 September) that a gap could be \"rushed\" just north of Hill 70, although Foch felt that this would be difficult to co-ordinate and Haig told him that First Army was not in a position for further attacks at the moment. Charteris wrote that \"Sir John French is played out. The show is too big for him and he is despondent.\" Even French's trusted secretary Edward Fitzgerald recorded (5 October 1915) that French's \"sudden moods are weird and marvellous but we never now even have explanations\".\n\nHaig told Haldane (9 October) that French's handling of the reserves had lost the battle. Kitchener demanded an explanation (11 October). Haig told Rawlinson (10 and 22 October 1915) he could no longer be loyal to French after Loos. Haig also wrote to GHQ (21 October) claiming that fresh forces could have pushed through with little opposition between 9 am and 11 am.\n\nTo French's annoyance the King arrived in France (21 October) to sample opinion for himself—French met him at Boulogne but was summoned to London for talks with Kitchener and the Dardanelles Committee. Gough and Haking visited the King after tea (24 October) and told him \"everyone has lost confidence in the C-in-C\" while over dinner that evening Haig told the King that French was \"a source of great weakness to the Army, and no one had any confidence in him any more\".\n\nRobertson, visiting London in early October, had discussed French's replacement with Murray (now CIGS) and the King. After he returned to France and conferred with Haig, Haig recorded (diary 24 October) \"I ha(ve) been more than loyal to French and did my best to stop all criticism of him or his methods … I ha(ve) come to the conclusion that it (i)s not fair to the Empire to retain French in command. Moreover, none of my officers commanding corps had a high opinion of Sir John's military ability or military views; in fact \"they had no confidence in him\". Robertson quite agreed and left me saying \"he knew how to act, and would report to Stamfordham\" \". Robertson thought (24 October) that French's \"mind was never the same for two consecutive minutes\" and that his ideas were \"reckless and impossible\" and that he had poor relations with Joffre.\n\nFrench's friends in London reported that Asquith still wanted French to remain in office but Bonar Law was opposed; Wilson claimed that \"cordial relations with the French\" were Sir John's trump card and lobbied Carson in his favour. Walter Long reported that French's dismissal had never been openly discussed by the War Council, but Charles Callwell recorded that Asquith, Grey and Lloyd George were overheard by the waiters discussing it in a railway restaurant car. French himself believed that Kitchener's departure on a tour of the Mediterranean would save him.\n\nGHQ suggested that according to Haking's own report the reserves had been held up by \"avoidable delay\" and pointed out the futility of \"pushing reserves through a narrow gap\". Haig denied that there had been any \"avoidable delay\" and Haking now changed his mind and sent a new report (27 October) blaming the slowness of his troops' march on their inexperience. French's despatch was published (2 November) claiming that the reserves had been released at 9.30 am (the telephone log does show a call from GHQ at this time). Haig, who wrote to his wife that the despatch was \"full of lies\", demanded amendments and another interview between French and Haig ensued. Even though Charteris doubted that the quicker arrival of the reserves would have made much difference, the dispute revolved around the deployment and release of the reserves, rather than why Haig had demanded their release into a battle he thought already lost. Robertson told the King (27 October) that Haig should replace French. French's policies were attacked in the House of Lords (9 November) and again on 16 November when Lord St Davids complained of \"the presence of ladies\" at GHQ.\n\nHaig sent copies of the relevant orders and a critique of GHQ's conduct of the battle to his wife, who showed them to Stamfordham (10 November) for the King to see. Robertson was working against French, telling Haig (15 November) that \"the first thing is to get you in command\". The Prime Minister discussed the matter with the King and Kitchener (both of whom thought French not up to the job, although Kitchener thought the time not right for a change), and, on 23 November, Haig. Asquith then asked Esher to convey to French in person the news that he must resign, but that he was being offered a peerage and the newly created job of Commander-in-Chief Home Forces. However, French insisted on seeing Asquith again (29 November) at which meeting Asquith told him that he must take the first step and that he was not being \"recalled\" (sacked). French's official critique of Haig's performance at Loos finally reached the War Office on 1 December. He wrote to Asquith (2 December) suggesting that Kitchener be removed to be replaced by a civilian Secretary of State to avoid friction with the new job of Commander-in-Chief Home Forces, and writing that he would await Asquith's decision on this point. He returned to France (3 December), but Asquith had been exchanging further letters with Stamfordham and they agreed that French must now be pressed to quit. Walter Long telephoned French (4 December) passing on the Prime Minister's message that he \"must\" resign.\n\nKitchener told Esher (4 December) that the government intended to appoint Robertson Commander-in-Chief of the BEF, but Haig was appointed instead. French's resignation, recommending Robertson as successor, reached Asquith on the morning of 6 December. It was announced in the press on 17 December and took effect at noon on 18 December. French and Haig had an awkward handover meeting (Fitzgerald told Wigram that Haig \"never for one moment unbent\"), at which French requested that Winston Churchill be given command of a battalion (Haig had no objection). French was cheered onto the boat home by an escort of 19th Hussars.\n\nFrench returned to England to be appointed Commander-in-Chief of the British Home Forces in December 1915, and in January 1916, he was created Viscount French of Ypres and of High Lake in the County of Roscommon. Robertson prevented him having the same powers as the old Commander-in-Chief of the British Army or having a seat on the Army Council.\n\nDespite estimates that the Germans could land up to 170,000 men, French thought an invasion unlikely unless the Germans had first won on the Western Front, and favoured fighting on the coast rather than a strong central reserve. He was energetic about inspecting defences, and appealed to Asquith to obtain the services of Arthur Paget and Bruce Hamilton.\n\nAfter discussions in February and March 1916 with Chief Secretary Augustine Birrell—who did not believe press talk of an armed Irish uprising but wanted more troops as a deterrent—Friend (Commander-in-Chief, Ireland) and Wimborne (Lord Lieutenant) French said that he could spare only a single cavalry brigade as reinforcements, and later offered an extra reserve infantry brigade, although in the event Friend declined (7 April) to make formal application for the brigade to be sent. French thought little more could be done unless the government changed its assessment of the threat.\n\nFrench's term of office saw the suppression in 1916 of the Easter Rising, which briefly coincided with a German invasion scare. An intelligence report on 21 April warned of collaboration between the Irish and the Germans, causing French to mutter \"I don't believe a word of it\". French received news of the insurrection at noon on 24 April 1916 (Easter Monday), and at once sent two infantry brigades to Ireland and put other formations on standby—the Admiralty warned that the German fleet was out. Woken at 4 am on 25 April with the news that the Germans were shelling Lowestoft, French ordered the commanders of the two Home Defence Armies to prepare for action and ordered two divisions in the Midlands to be prepared to move to the coast. Later that day he was informed that Macready had been deputed to handle the War Office's side of the Irish uprising. French rejected Kitchener's suggestion that he go to Ireland that very evening and take personal command, a decision with which the Prime Minister concurred (despite their previous antagonism, French recorded that Kitchener \"expressed no annoyance at my visit to the PM!\"). The military authorities reported from Dublin that they had the situation well in hand.\n\nOn the evening of 26 April, told that the government had decided to send out a new general to Ireland, French selected Maxwell (who had been military governor of Pretoria) from a shortlist of two. French had already told Asquith that he had ordered the 60th Division to be ready to move, but would not send it without the concurrence of the General Staff. On 27 April, French visited Robertson who agreed with him that to send more troops to Ireland would be \"playing the German game\". However, the next day after visits from Midleton (on instructions from Asquith) and Carson French agreed to send three extra battalions, as well as the cavalry brigade from Aldershot which Maxwell now requested. The rebellion was crushed by 29 April. On 3 May Asquith recorded his concerns that the shooting of rebels might antagonise Irish opinion, but French, despite having been advised by John Redmond that Sinn Féin had little support outside Dublin and that the Army should not use more than minimal force, passed on these concerns with the caveat that he would not interfere with Maxwell's actions. In the opinion of one biographer French's views had not moved on since his hanging of the Cape Colony Boers, and he bears some responsibility for the shootings.\n\nFrench became increasingly critical of Haig's Western Front Offensives. One biographer writes that \"French's office at Horse Guards became a clearing house for gossip from France\". French was critical of the choice of Rawlinson to command the Somme and in August 1916 Robertson warned Haig that \"Winston, French and various \"degommed people\" are trying to make mischief\".\n\nIn October 1916 Lloyd George (then War Secretary) sought French's advice about recent press criticism of British artillery and discipline, then sent him to France to sound out the opinion of the French generals about why the French had gained ground with fewer losses on the Somme. Foch (C-in-C French Army Group North) refused to be drawn, although he confessed to Wilson that Haig's methods invited criticism, and Haig refused to meet him, sending an aide Lt-Col Alan Fletcher, telling him \"I would not receive Viscount French in my house. I despise him too much personally for that, but he would receive every attention due to a British Field Marshal\". Haig and Robertson were both concerned that Lloyd George might appoint French CIGS in Robertson's place. On 25 November 1916 the King summoned French to Buckingham Palace and warned him to stop criticising Haig. In January 1917 French refused an invitation from Derby to dine with Haig, but on 22 June, after pressure from the King, a meeting was arranged for French and Haig to bury the hatchet, at which, by Haig's account, French confessed that in his bitterness at being removed from command he had \"said things then which he was ashamed of now\". Haig, according to his own diary, congratulated him for \"speaking out like a man\" and they shook hands as they parted, but their rapprochement was short-lived.\n\nFrench took on responsibility for air defence, although he agreed with Repington that it was \"a damnosa hereditas\". He was frequently lobbied by local groups for better air defences. In January 1917 anti-aircraft guns were reallocated to anti-submarine warfare. After the Gotha raids in July 1917 French was able to make a fuss at the War Cabinet (Robertson complained he could not get a word in edgeways) and show letters he had written urging greater priority for air defence. A War Cabinet sub-committee was set up, nominally chaired by the Prime Minister but effectively run by J. C. Smuts, and French urged that air be treated as a separate department going forward (which eventually became the RAF). More guns and fighter squadrons were provided, and Brigadier E.B. Ashmore was appointed to command London's air defence, reporting to French.\n\nIn July 1917, French asked to advise the War Cabinet, fully aware that this was breaking the monopoly of advice on which Robertson insisted. Lloyd George had French and Wilson to lunch in August, then on 11 October 1917, following the precedent of Asquith's War Council of August 1914, they were invited to the War Cabinet and invited to give their opinions (a note from Hankey asking French to submit his paper via the CIGS was apparently ignored). French's paper criticised GHQ's inflated estimates of German casualties compared to War Office figures, pointed out that there was no firm evidence that German losses were commensurate with Allied, and that any further Western Front Offensive \"has become more of a \"gamble\" than anything else we have undertaken\" and that any future plans and forecasts by Haig should be most carefully examined. He recommended the \"Petain solution\" (i.e. standing mainly on the defensive on the Western Front until the Americans arrived in force) and urged the creation of an Allied Supreme War Council. Wilson, who was more amenable to Western front offensives, made some handwritten amendments to French's paper as well as submitting one of his own.\n\nHankey met French and Wilson on 24 October and urged them to reconsider, concerned that if Robertson resigned the Conservatives might bring down the government. French refused, saying Haig was \"always making the same mistake\" and \"we shall do no good until we break down the Haig-Robertson ring\". Hankey thought that \"there was envy, hatred and malice in the old boy's heart as he spoke\". Haig regarded French's paper as \"the outcome of a jealous and disappointed mind\".\n\nAlthough French was responsible for training, the demands of the Western Front left him very short of fit troops. There were about 1.5 million troops in the UK, but many of these were in hospital, in training, too young (under 19), too old or medically unfit for combat. At the start of 1917 French had a defensive force of 470,000 men, of whom 232,459 (including ten infantry divisions) were \"mobile\" reserves and 237,894 on beach and anti-aircraft defence. By January 1918 the total had been reduced to 400,979, of whom 190,045 (eight divisions) were \"mobile\". In January 1918 Robertson favoured breaking up four divisions to send 50,000 reinforcements to France, leaving the remaining four divisions consisting mainly of \"lads\" under 19. There were around 16,000 \"mobile\" troops in Ireland, not counting the 62,000 \"infantry performing a gendarme role\" (in Terraine's description). There were around 600,000 Category \"A\" men in Britain, of whom in the event 372,000 were sent to France between January and November 1918 when the government were doing all they could to reinforce the BEF—by May 1918 even troops with medical grade of B1 were sent to France.\n\nFrench's reputation had recovered (by this time, writes Holmes, \"the losses of Loos looked almost nostalgically trivial\") and he had come to be regarded as one of the government's leading advisers. In spring 1918 French wrote Lloyd George a long letter complaining of how Haig had intrigued against him in 1915, including criticising him to his subordinates, and how Haig and Robertson had (allegedly) conspired to gain military supremacy over the civil power. French was pleased at the removal of Robertson and Derby early in 1918, and during the German Spring Offensive urged that Haig be sacked and replaced by Plumer. In May 1918 he again suggested to Wilson (now CIGS) that Haig be appointed his successor as Commander-in-Chief Home Forces.\n\nFrench noted that Irish divisions could no longer be kept up to strength by voluntary recruitment, and in March 1918, when the Cabinet planned to extend conscription to Ireland, French claimed that \"opinion was about evenly divided\" on the issue, and thought it would remove \"useless and idle youths—between 18 and … 25\"—and would cause opposition but not \"bloodshed\". In the event the threat of Irish conscription provoked great opposition, even from the Catholic Church, and contributed to the growth in support for Sinn Féin.\n\nLloyd George intended to replace the Lord Lieutenant—normally something of a figurehead position, with real power exercised by the Chief Secretary—with three \"Justices\": James Campbell, unionist Lord Chief Justice of Ireland, Midleton and French himself. The three men met on 30 April 1918 and jointly demanded immediate conscription and martial law in Ireland. When Lloyd George refused, Campbell declined any further involvement and Lloyd George also dropped Midleton when the latter demanded the right to \"advise on policy\". French eventually accepted appointment as sole Lord Lieutenant in May 1918 on condition it was as a \"Military Viceroy at the Head of a Quasi-Military Government\". French also arranged for Shaw, his chief of staff at Horse Guards, to replace Mahon as Commander-in-Chief, Ireland and that Irish Command should become a separate command, rather than under Home Forces.\n\nFrench also set up an Executive Council and a Military Council to which senior officers of the Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC) and Dublin Metropolitan Police (DMP) were sometimes invited. He also set up an Advisory Council, with the support of the King, Haldane and Carson, which he hoped might contain representatives of all strands of Irish opinion. But in practice its members were all well-connected wealthy men, Sinn Féin were not involved despite Haldane's hopes and the proposal angered the existing administrators at Dublin Castle. The body provided useful advice on commercial and industrial questions, and advised that Home Rule could work as a federation of separate assemblies in Belfast and Dublin (also French's view), but ceased to meet regularly after April 1919.\n\nFrench was convinced that the Sinn Féin leaders had little support amongst the majority of the Irish people. He wanted Home Rule to be implemented, provided the violence was stopped first. In July 1917 he had been pleased to be given a \"vociferous\" welcome by the women of Cork, but less so in Dublin and Galway. In 1917 he had bought a country house at Drumdoe in Frenchpark, County Roscommon, but in practice was seldom able to visit the place as the situation in Ireland deteriorated.\n\nOn the night of 17/18 May 1918 French had Sinn Féin leaders arrested and documents were seized, but even supporters like Repington and Macready were disappointed at the lack of clear evidence of collaboration with the Germans and the flimsy legal grounds for the arrests, which caused endless legal wrangles. Michael Collins and Cathal Brugha escaped arrest and increased their own power in the vacuum created by the arrest of more moderate leaders.\n\nThe Irish Volunteers and Sinn Féin were proclaimed \"dangerous organisations\" in certain areas (3 July 1918), with meetings banned except under permit, and West Cork was declared a Special Military Area in late September. French obtained a cash bonus for Irish policemen, and pressed for them to receive decorations. He also came down hard on senior Irish police officers whom he thought useless, threatening resignation unless the Inspector-General of the RIC, Brigadier-General Joseph Byrne, was removed.\n\nFrench, who like many generals of his generation believed that the government owed a moral duty to those who had served, urged that a \"Comrades of the Great War (Ireland)\" be set up to prevent returning Irish war veterans joining the Sinn Féin-dominated \"Soldiers' Federation\"—he also recommended that soldiers be given cash and land grants, perhaps in \"Soldiers' Colonies\". This plan was stymied by cash shortage and inter-departmental infighting.\n\nFrench clashed with the Chief Secretary Edward Shortt over his insistence that he exercise executive authority in Dublin, and when Lloyd George formed a new government in January 1919 Shortt was replaced by the more pliable Ian Macpherson. French was appointed to the British Cabinet (now restored to normal size after the war had ended), but while in Ireland liaised with the Cabinet not through the Chief Secretary as would have been usual but through the Colonial Secretary, his friend Walter Long.\n\nFrench also secured the appointment of Sir James Macmahon as Under-Secretary at Dublin Castle. Macmahon was Roman Catholic, which caused Walter Long and to some extent French himself concerns that this would increase the power of the Hierarchy over Irish government. In practice Macmahon was frozen out of decision-making by Macpherson while French was ill with pneumonia between February and April 1919, and despite warnings from French of administrative chaos at Dublin Castle it was not until 1920 that the highly able John Anderson was appointed as Joint Under-Secretary with Macmahon.\n\nThe shooting dead of two Catholic constables of the RIC in an ambush at Soloheadbeg, County Tipperary (21 January 1919) caused French to call off tentative talks between Haldane and the recently elected Irish Dáil (Haldane blamed Walter Long who was opposed to the talks). \n\nFrench and Macpherson wanted Sinn Féin declared illegal and pressed for a free hand to deal with the militants, although the issue received little priority while Lloyd George was away at Versailles in the first half of 1919. Sinn Féin was declared illegal on 5 July 1919 after District Inspector Hunt was killed in broad daylight, in Thurles (23 June). By October 1919 French was urging the imposition of martial law. By December he was furious at the government's lack of support (like being asked to \"fight with one arm tied up\") and their insistence that the RIC buy army surplus vehicles (the Army was reducing dramatically in size after World War I) on the open market instead of simply being given them.\n\nShaw was sceptical about the legality of martial law and thought it might be impractical in cities like Dublin and Cork. French was advised that 15 army battalions and 24 cycle units (half a battalion in size) were needed to keep order, but British strength did not reach these levels until the summer of 1920. In November 1919, Irish Command listed its minimum requirement as 25,000 \"bayonet strength\"—at the time there were just over 37,000 troops in Ireland, many of them non-combatants. Even in January 1920 only 34 battalions were available, rather than the 36 required. This was symptomatic of the Army as a whole, which was trying to meet global commitments while demobilising. British military strength in Ireland reached 51 battalions during the martial law period early in 1921.\n\nIRA intimidation caused traditional RIC sources of information to dry up. By late 1919, with French's approval, the RIC was recruiting in England: first the \"Black and Tans\", then the Auxiliary Division (ex army officers with the powers of police sergeants) from July 1920.\n\nFrench had been receiving death threats since January 1919, which he believed were a sign that government measures were having an effect. On 19 December 1919 an IRA unit of 11 volunteers, including Seán Treacy, Seamus Robinson, Seán Hogan, Paddy Daly, Joe Leonard, Martin Savage, and Dan Breen (who later said that the threats were not based on \"personal animosity\") sought to ambush French as he returned from Ashtown railway station (he was returning by train from Drumdoe) to the Vice-Regal Lodge in Phoenix Park, Dublin.\n\nSavage, Kehoe and Breen were interrupted by a RIC officer as they pushed a hay-cart halfway across the road blocking the path of French's car. He was dragged off the road after one of them lobbed a grenade at him, which did not go off but knocked him unconscious. When the convoy appeared minutes later, the IRA concentrated their attack on the second car on the basis of incorrect intelligence: French was actually in the first car. In the ensuing crossfire Breen was shot in the leg, and Savage was killed by a bullet in the neck. French's own bodyguard was wounded, and he was saved in part by the quick thinking of his driver. A grenade, which would almost certainly have killed him, exploded in the back seat of the second car.\n\nThe Cabinet agreed that the Irish Government could impose martial law whenever it pleased—although in the event this did not happen for almost another year, by which time executive authority had been returned to London. Suspects could now be interned under DORA 14B on warrants signed by the Chief Secretary and French pressed Macpherson, who had been shocked by the attempted assassination, to intern as many as possible, although he advised against interning politicians like Arthur Griffith \"simply for making seditious speeches\".\n\nPolitical support from London for internment wavered. French opposed the release of hunger strikers under the \"Cat and Mouse\" Act and wanted them simply left to die, but eventually in April 1920, under pressure from London, the hunger strikers were released on parole.\n\nFrench lost a good deal of executive power as substantial control over Irish affairs was given back to a new Chief Secretary, Hamar Greenwood, in April 1920, with Macready as the new Commander-in-Chief, not Robertson whom French did not want. French again urged the introduction of martial law in Ireland and the use of Ulster Volunteers as peacekeepers in Southern Ireland. Wilson and Macready expected French to be sacked in the spring of 1920. Wilson wrote: \"Poor little man he is so weak and pliable and then has such inconsequential gusts of illogical passion. He is an Imperialist, a Democrat, a Home Ruler all at the same time. Poor man\", although Wilson also thought him \"brave as a lion\". H. A. L. Fisher thought French in July 1920 \"a shadow of his former self and quite useless\".\n\nFrench had supported the use of armoured cars and aircraft in Ireland. Shaw had recommended one air squadron per province (i.e. four) in an \"Entrenched Air Camp\", but only one squadron was available and it was unclear exactly what they could do. By June 1920 the military situation had escalated considerably and French suggested that they should be permitted to strafe and bomb freely into areas from which civilians had been removed. \n\nFrench resigned as Lord Lieutenant of Ireland on 30 April 1921 and was replaced by Lord Edmund Talbot, a Catholic.\n\nFrench was president of The Ypres League, a veterans' society for those who had served at the Ypres Salient. He was also colonel of the 19th Hussars from 14 February 1902 (retaining this position when French persuaded Wilson to amalgamate them with the 15th to become the 15th/19th The King's Royal Hussars), colonel of the 1st Battalion, The Cambridgeshire Regiment from 22 April 1909 and colonel-in-chief of the Royal Irish Regiment from 26 March 1913, succeeding Wolseley . The Royal Irish Regiment was disbanded along with the four other Southern Irish regiments, in 1922. He was Colonel of the Irish Guards from June 1916.\n\nStung by press attacks in February 1917 (a Smith-Dorrien interview in the \"Weekly Despatch\"—\"How the Old Army Died\"— and a book \"The Retreat from Mons\" by Major Corbett-Smith—Smith-Dorrien had worked on the proofs), French published his memoirs \"1914\", ghosted by the journalist Lovat Fraser, in April and May 1919. The unauthorised publication of the book technically laid him open to prosecution as he was holding office as Lord Lieutenant of Ireland at the time. The King was angered, and Bonar Law warned French that the government could not defend him if the House of Commons demanded his resignation as Irish Viceroy. Smith-Dorrien as a serving officer was not permitted to reply. Haig, Asquith and Bertie complained of inaccuracies and it was attacked by Sir John Fortescue in the \"Quarterly Review\" as \"one of the most unfortunate books ever written\". Smith-Dorrien, in a private written statement, called \"1914\" \"mostly a work of fiction and a foolish one too\".\n\nFrench left an uncompleted autobiography, which was used by Gerald French in his 1931 life of his father. In 1972 the ownership of French's war diaries was disputed following the bankruptcy of the 3rd Earl of Ypres.\n\nFrench retired from the British Army in April 1921 and was elevated to the Earldom of Ypres in June 1922.\n\nDrumdoe was looted early in 1923, for which French received an apology and a promise of an armed guard for the place from Governor-General T.M. Healy. Despite a gift of £50,000 in 1916, and receiving field marshal's half pay, owning two properties in Ireland which he could not use left French again short of money, although he did not improve matters by staying often at the Hôtel de Crillon in Paris. He left £8,450 (net total) in his will.\n\nFrench lived at 94 Lancaster Gate, London, which provided a useful base for his amorous activities, on which he often embarked together with a wealthy American friend, George Moore. In August 1923 Lord Beauchamp offered him the honorary post of Captain of Deal Castle, which gave him a home in Britain once again.\n\nFrench died from cancer of the bladder at Deal Castle on 22 May 1925, aged 72. On 25 May, his body was taken by motor hearse from Deal to London for cremation at Golders Green Crematorium. The ashes then remained overnight in the Guard's Chapel at Wellington Barracks until the funeral service at Westminster Abbey in the evening of 26 May. After the service, French's remains were escorted by a military procession to Victoria Station in which six battalions of infantry, one battery of artillery, eight squadrons of cavalry and a detachment from the Royal Navy were present. The burial at Ripple was conducted as a private service. \n\nThe procedure of burying ashes in an urn was still unfamiliar at the time, and his urn was transported in a coffin during the funeral ceremonies. Before the funeral, an estimated 7,000 people filed past his coffin during the first two hours it lay in state, many of them veterans of the retreat from Mons. Haig, Robertson, Hamilton and Smith-Dorrien (who had travelled from France to pay his respects to a man with whom he had clashed badly) were pall bearers at his funeral at Westminster Abbey—the first of a major First World War leader. His ashes were buried at Ripple five days after his death.\n\nFrench was \"a man about whom there were extremes of opinion, ranging from loyalty and affection to disgust\". He had a hot temper and swings of mood, would address friends effusively as \"dear old boy\", and was a womaniser and often short of money. He wore an unusually long tunic which emphasised his relatively short stature. He was—at least during the Boer War—idolised by the public and during the First World War was loved by his men in a way that Douglas Haig never was. French was also an avid reader of Dickens, from whose works he was able to recite long passages from memory.\n\nOpinions vary as to French's military abilities. Edward Spears, then a subaltern liaising between French and Lanrezac, later wrote of the former: \"You only had to look at him to see that he was a brave, determined man ... I learnt to love and to admire the man who never lost his head, and on whom danger had the effect it has on the wild boar: he would become morose, furious for a time, harsh, but he would face up and never shirk. He knew only one way of dealing with a difficulty, and that was to tackle it ... If he had once lost confidence in a man, justly or unjustly, that man could do no right in his eyes. He was as bad an enemy as he was a good friend ... once he had lost confidence in (Lanrezac) he ignored him and acted as if he and his Army did not exist.\" Spears also recorded that at a conference with Joffre on 30 August 1914 French, the back of his tunic wet with sweat from riding hard to reach the meeting, was \"one of the coolest and calmest people at GHQ\". This was at the time when he had decided that the BEF would have to retreat behind the Seine to refit.\n\nFrench was severely criticised by those close to Haig, including General Sir Hubert Gough, who thought him \"an ignorant little fool\" (in a letter of 29 January 1916. He was more charitable in his 1954 memoirs \"Soldiering On\" (p. 127)) and Duff Cooper in Haig's Official Biography. The Official Historian Edmonds called him \"only 'un beau sabreur' of the old fashioned sort—a vain, ignorant and vindictive old man with an unsavoury society backing\" and claimed that French once borrowed Sir Edward Hamley's \"Operations of War\" from the War Office library but could not understand it. His admiring biographer Cecil Chisholm (1914) claimed that as a young officer French had had a reputation as a reader of military books (Jomini, von Schmidt), a claim treated with some scepticism by Holmes, although Beckett uses it to cast doubt on Edmonds' \"magnificently malicious\" story, pointing out that he remembered enough of Hamley's doctrines not to take shelter in Maubeuge after the Battle of Mons, although Spears later wrote that had Hamley not employed such a penetrating metaphor it might not have lodged in French's mind.\n\nGeneral Macready (in 1919) thought French \"one of the most lovable men I have ever met … one of the most loyal and true-hearted individuals you are ever likely to come across\". Field Marshal Chetwode, reflecting on the hostility between Haig and his former patron French, wrote that \"French was a man who loved life, laughter and women … a man who might have done big things in open warfare. He was a lucky general and inspired the greatest confidence in his troops\" and that Haig was his opposite in most of these respects. Churchill (in \"Great Contemporaries\") wrote that French was \"a natural soldier\" who lacked Haig’s attention to detail and endurance, but who had \"deeper military insight\" and \"would never have run the British army into the same long drawn-out slaughters\". Seely and Esher thought highly of him. Haldane thought he had \"been a great Commander-in-Chief, a soldier of the first order, who held the Army as no other could\". Lloyd George praised him as \"a far bigger man\" than Haig and regretted that he \"had fallen by the daggers of his own colleagues\", although perhaps as an ally against Haig in 1916–18.\n\nFrench was ridiculed as \"a weak-willed man of medium height\" by Alan Clark in the widely read \"The Donkeys\" (1961). His modern biographer Richard Holmes wrote that \"he remains … a discredited man\" but \"history has dealt too harshly\" with him. He argues that French was an emotional man who was deeply moved by casualties and identified too closely with his soldiers, even in August 1914. Holmes quotes with approval John Terraine's verdict that French was the most distinguished English cavalry leader since Oliver Cromwell, and argues that although he did not achieve victory, his personality inspired the BEF in 1914 (this was acknowledged at the time by Robertson and by Smith-Dorrien, who informed the King's adviser Wigram (6 November 1914) that in situations where other men would have panicked \"Sir John is unmoved and invariably does the right thing\"). Holmes acknowledges that French's qualities were marred by his \"undisciplined intellect and mercurial personality\", but concludes by quoting Churchill's verdict that \"French, in the sacred fire of leadership, was unsurpassed\".\n\nBrian Bond described French as \"a brave fighting general who proved out of his professional depths\" in 1914–15. Ian Senior offers a critical view of French in 1914: although he was \"essentially a generous and warm-hearted man\" as seen in his pre-Marne meeting with Joffre, his \"excitable temperament, uncertain judgement based on rumour and personal experience and his tendency to over-exaggerate problems did not suit him to be in command of the army. At best, his more questionable decisions led to a lack of support for his ally at critical moments in the campaign; at worst, they threatened to wreck Joffre’s carefully laid plans for the counteroffensive.\" Senior is critical of his vetoing — out of excessive concern to avoid BEF losses — of Haig’s orders to attack on 29 August, his decision to pull the BEF out of the line on 30 August, only a few hours after promising to assist Fifth Army by delaying his retreat, and his countermanding of Haig's order to advance on 9 September. He also criticises him for his lack of any realistic appraisal of the state of II Corps after Le Cateau, and \"lack of urgency\" in advance at the Marne, and writes that French would not have cooperated without the \"brutal\" intervention of Lord Kitchener.\n\nMax Hastings is even less kind, arguing that French used his instructions from Kitchener (to husband the strength of the BEF and to avoid major engagements without French participation unless given Cabinet authority) as an excuse for \"pusillanimity\". He criticises him for lack of \"grip\" and for \"moral collapse\" during the retreat after Le Cateau, and describes him as \"a poltroon\", although also pointing out that his failings were no worse than those of many French and German generals in that campaign.\n\nRichard Holmes argues that French had no consistency in his strategic ideas, as was shown at the War Council in August 1914 when he proposed deploying the BEF to Antwerp. Ian Beckett does not wholly agree with Holmes, arguing that French was consistent in December 1914 – January 1915 in wanting to promote what he saw as Britain's strategic interests by deploying Territorial and New Army Divisions in an offensive along the Belgian Coast to seize Zeebrugge, although he also remarks that such plans were not unique to French, as they continued to find favour with Haig in 1916–17, and that French's hopes for amphibious landings in the Baltic or North Sea had little practicality at this stage.\n\nIn his memoirs \"1914\" French wrote \"no previous experience ... had led me to anticipate a war of positions. All my thoughts … were concentrated upon a war of movement.\" Although French's memoirs are often unreliable this passage is confirmed by what he wrote to Lt-Gen Edward Hutton in December 1914 that the war had become \"a siege ... on a gigantic scale\". Ian Beckett argues that in this respect, and in his recognition of the importance of artillery as early as the Battle of the Aisne in September 1914, French's tactical views were \"marginally more flexible\" than those of Haig, who continued to nurse hopes of breakthrough and decisive victory until several years later.\n\nIn 1875, French married Isabella Soundy, the daughter of a tradesman. Subalterns of that era were not expected to marry and French's first marriage may well have been kept secret from his regiment: his regiment is recorded incorrectly on the marriage certificate as \"12th Hussars\", a regiment that did not exist at the time. They divorced in 1878 with Isabella as a co-respondent and said to have been paid off by French's wealthy brother-in-law, John Lydall. The divorce could have ruined his career if widely known. Lydall had already paid off French's debts on a previous occasion, and later broke off relations with him when he attempted to borrow money again. Later still, when French's name was seen on newspaper headlines (most likely during the Curragh incident), he was observed to stomp off down the street muttering \"sorry fellow, Jack French\".\n\nFrench married Eleanora Selby-Lowndes in 1880. Eleanore, one of seven sisters known as the \"Belles of Bletchley\", was somewhat older than he was. His first son John Richard Lowndes was born in Northumberland in 1881. A daughter was accidentally suffocated by her nurse in 1882. His second son Gerald was born in December 1883. Neither Eleanore, nor his daughter Essex (born late 1886, died 1979), were ever aware of his first marriage. French gave away his niece Georgina Whiteway (daughter of his sister Caroline) in 1903 when she married Fitzgerald Watt, French’s stockbroker. Watt became, in uniform, his ADC as Inspector-General, then Private Secretary when CIGS, then trusted aide in the First World War.\n\nAs Inspector-General in the Edwardian Period French appears to have been largely separated from his wife, but she appears to have still loved him, and her children sided with her. In 1905, French purchased 20 Park Mansions from Watt as a base in London. He met George Moore, a wealthy American, in about 1909 and in 1910 they took a large house together at 94 Lancaster Gate as a base for partying and womanising. Eleanore did not accompany him to Ireland (officially, as it was too dangerous). From 1922, French re-established relations with his son Gerald, who began writing to defend his father's reputation in the 1930s, and his last publication was \"The French-Kitchener Dispute: A Last Word\" in 1960. Gerald French died in 1970.\n\nFrench had six sisters. One sister, Catherine Harley, by then a widow, led a group of British nurses on the Salonika Front and was killed by shellfire at Monastir in March 1917. Another sister was the suffragette, anti-war campaigner and Irish nationalist Sinn Féin member Charlotte Despard, a Catholic convert. During the Irish War of Independence, while her brother the Lord Lieutenant was directing operations against Sinn Féin, Despard, together with Maud Gonne and others, was through the Women's Prisoners' Defence League supporting republican prisoners.\n\nBeginning in January 1915 French had an affair with Mrs Winifred Bennett, the wife of a British diplomat and former mistress of one of his own officers, Jack Annesley, who was killed near Ypres in November 1914. French wrote to her almost daily, sometimes signing himself \"Peter Pan\" and on the eve of Neuve Chapelle he wrote to her \"Tomorrow I shall go forward with my war cry of 'Winifred'\". She was tall and elegant, and the disparity in their heights caused great amusement.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAfter the Colesberg Operations (early 1900) the following verse was published about him:\n\n<poem>There's a general of 'orse which is French,\nYou've 'eard of 'im o' course, fightin' French,\n'E's a daisy, e's a brick, and e's up to every trick,\nAnd 'e moves amazin' quick, don't yer French?\n'E's so tough and terse\n'E don't want no bloomin' nurse\nand 'E ain't had one reverse\nAve yer, French?</poem>\n\nDuring the Boer War, the press lionised him as \"Uncle French\" and \"the shirt-sleeved general\", writing of how he smoked a briar pipe and enjoyed being mistaken for a private soldier.\n\nAt the beginning of the First World War a supporter of French, Arthur Campbell Ainger, tried, with little success, to popularise a marching song in honour of French. The words read:\n\n<poem>Do you ken John French with his khaki suit\nHis belt and gaiters and stout brown boot\nAlong with his guns and his horse and his foot\nOn the road to Berlin in the morning.</poem>\n\nField Marshal French was played by Laurence Olivier in Richard Attenborough's World War I satire film \"Oh! What A Lovely War\" (1969). Ian Beckett writes that French and Wilson are portrayed almost as \"a comic duo\" in the film. By this time, although Terraine's \"Mons: Retreat to Victory\" (1960), Alan Clark's \"The Donkeys\" (1961), and A. J. Smithers' \"The Man Who Disobeyed\" (a 1970 biography of Smith-Dorrien) kept up some interest in French, he was already becoming a somewhat forgotten figure as popular interest from the 1960s onwards concentrated on the Battle of the Somme, inevitably focussing attention on Douglas Haig.\n\nIn Russian the word \"french\" (френч), a type of four-pocketed military tunic, is named after John French.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8315517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8315517", "title": "John R.F. Jeffreys", "text": "John R.F. Jeffreys\n\nJohn Robert Fisher Jeffreys (25 January 1916 – 13 January 1944) was a British mathematician and World War II codebreaker.\n\nA research fellow at Downing College, Cambridge, Jeffreys joined the codebreaking efforts at Bletchley Park in September 1939 alongside fellow Cambridge mathematicians Gordon Welchman, with whom he had previously worked closely, and Alan Turing. These three, together with Peter Twinn and working under Dilly Knox, formed the research section working on the German Enigma machine, and were housed in \"The Cottage\" at Bletchley Park.\n\nJeffreys was put in charge of a small section manufacturing perforated sheets for use in the cryptanalysis of the Enigma, a task which took over three months, completed on 7 January 1940. One type were the Zygalski sheets, known as \"Netz\" at Bletchley Park, a technique revealed to the British by Polish cryptologists. Another type, named \"Jeffreys sheets\", were different, and were a \"catalogue of the effect of any two Enigma rotors and the reflector\". Jeffreys's perforated sheets were used by Polish cryptologists in exile in France to make the first wartime decryption of an Enigma message on 17 January 1940.\n\nIn early 1940, a section called \"Hut 6\" — named after the building in which it was initially housed — was created to work on solving German Army and Air Force Enigma messages. Jeffreys was chosen to run the hut alongside Welchman. Jeffreys was in charge of \"Sheet-Stacking and Machine Room activities\", while Welchman handled \"Registration, Intercept Control, Decoding, and relations with the intelligence people in Hut 3\".\n\nIn May 1940, Jeffreys took a vacation, but became ill and was diagnosed with tuberculosis and diabetes. He died in January 1944.\n\nGordon Welchman later recalled:\n\n"}
{"id": "763507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763507", "title": "Jonathan Lerman", "text": "Jonathan Lerman\n\nJonathan Lerman (born 1987) is an American autistic savant outsider artist. He was born in Queens, NY, and currently resides in the upstate New York suburb of Vestal.\n\nHe began to lapse into long silences at the age of two, and the next year he was diagnosed with autism. His IQ is purported to be 53. His artistic bent appeared at the age of 10 years in the form of charcoal-drawn faces—both people he knows and those he imagines. In 1999, he had his own solo exhibition at the KS Art gallery in New York City.\n\nHe has had personal exhibitions, and has also exhibited his work alongside others. He was also the subject of the MTV television program True Life in the episode \"True Life: I Have Autism\" to describe his life as an autistic savant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5845859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5845859", "title": "Józef Zabiełło", "text": "Józef Zabiełło\n\nJózef Zabiełło h. Topór (; c. 1750 – 9 May 1794 in Warsaw, Poland) of was a nobleman (\"szlachcic\") in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. Great Łowczy of Lithuanian from 1775, konsyliarz of Permanent Council from 1782, deputy of Samogitia to the Great Sejm and Field Hetman of Lithuania from 1793, he was infamous for his support of the Russian Empire in the last years of the Commonwealth.\n\nSon of Antoni Zabiełło and Zofia Niemirowicz-Szczytt h. Jastrzębiec. Opponent of the Constitution of May 3 and deputy marshal of the Targowica Confederation. after the Polish–Russian War of 1792 for his support of the Russian cause he was selected by Russians to be a Field Hetman of Lithuania and deputy to the Grodno Sejm, the last Sejm of the Commonwealth, infamous for being forced by Russians to sign the act of the second partition. During the Kościuszko Uprising he was apprehended by the revolutionaries in the aftermath of the Warsaw Uprising. After it was revealed that he had been receiving a steady pension from the Russian embassy for several years, he was sentenced to hanging as a traitor and executed on 9 May 1794.\n"}
{"id": "18270537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18270537", "title": "Kendall Jagdeosingh", "text": "Kendall Jagdeosingh\n\nKendall Jagdeosingh (born May 30, 1986 in Manzanilla) is a Trinidadian footballer who currently plays for Ayutthaya in Thai League 3\n\nJagdeosingh began his career in his native Trinidad, playing four seasons for North East Stars and Caledonia AIA in the TT Pro League.\n\nJagdeosingh joined the Puerto Rico Islanders in the USL First Division in 2007. He helped the Islanders win the 2008 USL First Division regular season title and progressed to the semi finals of the CONCACAF Champions League 2008–09.\n\nOn February 16, 2011, Jagdeosingh signed with Rochester Rhinos of the third division USL Pro league. The contract is for one year with a club option for 2012.\n\nIn March 2012, Jagdeosing signed with Chainat F.C. alongside fellow Trinidad national Yohance Marshall.\n\nJagdeosingh played for the Trinidadian national U-20 U-21 U-23 team, and was part of the Trinidad squad which competed at the 2007 CONCACAF Gold Cup. He also participated in several of Trinidad's early qualifying games for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. and qualifying games for the 2014 fifa World Cup and an international friendly against Finland on January 22, 2012\n\n\n"}
{"id": "445631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445631", "title": "Kris Aquino", "text": "Kris Aquino\n\nKristina Bernadette Cojuangco Aquino (born 14 February 1971) is a Filipino talk show host, actress and producer. She has hosted talk shows and game shows, and has also starred in films and television series. She is the youngest daughter of the slain senator Benigno Aquino Jr. and Corazon Aquino, who served as the 11th President of the Philippines. Her brother is Benigno S. Aquino III, who served as the 15th President of the Philippines.\n\nAquino's debut film appearance was in \"\". She is also known for her roles in the 2004 films \"Feng Shui\" and \"So... Happy Together\". Her movie \"Sukob\" was the highest-grossing Filipino film of 2006. She is widely known as the Queen of Talk in Philippine show business, and is a philanthropist who advocates for lupus awareness, children's rights, LGBT rights, culture and art appreciation, freedom of expression, and democratic reforms.\n\nAquino was born in Quezon City, Philippines, to Corazon Cojuangco-Aquino and Benigno S. Aquino, Jr. who was, at the time, a senator of the Ferdinand Marcos regime. The youngest of five children, her siblings are: Maria Elena \"Ballsy\" A. Cruz, Aurora Corazon \"Pinky\" A. Abellada, former Philippine President Benigno Simeon C. Aquino III, and Victoria Elisa \"Viel\" A. Dee. She is the cousin of actress and equestrienne Mikee Cojuangco, and the niece of Philippine Olympic Committee president Jose \"Peping\" Cojuangco, Jr. She has Chinese, Spanish, and Kapampangan ancestry. When she was a baby, her father was arrested and jailed; her mother raised Aquino and her siblings.\n\nDuring the 1978 parliamentary elections when her jailed father was a candidate, the seven-year-old Aquino was a stand-in for him at campaign rallies. She was featured on the front page of \"The New York Times\" and on the cover of \"Time Magazine\". Aquino spent most of her elementary school days in the United States, where the Aquino family was in exile. When she was 12 years old, her father was assassinated on the tarmac of the Manila International Airport. Kris Aquino returned to the Philippines and attended rallies against the Marcos regime.\n\nAfter the Philippine Revolution of 1986, which removed President Marcos from power, the teenage Aquino began guesting stints on television dramas and comedies, as well as talk shows. She made her film debut with actor-comedian Rene Requiestas in \"\", which was a blockbuster hit. Aquino had a commercially steady career, and managed to score an acting nomination for \"The Fatima Buen Story\". She starred in a film based on a true-to-life murder, the Vizconde massacre. Its financial success, and numerous starring appearances in crime films of the same vein, earned her the nickname \"Massacre Queen\" by newspaper critics.\n\nAquino finished her elementary school education at the Poveda Learning Center (now Saint Pedro Poveda College) in Mandaluyong City. She went to high school at the Colegio San Agustin-Makati, where she was classmates with Pinky Webb and Karen Davila. She graduated from the Ateneo de Manila University in 1992 with a Bachelor of Arts in English Literature.\n\nWith her movie career slowing, Aquino shifted her sights to a television career as a talk show host and gossiper with the launching of the talk show \"Kris\". It was produced by Viva Television on Channel 4 (at that time named PTV, it was transferred to GMA Network, which had a partnership with Viva, and after Viva's contract with PTV ended). It was on GMA Network's showbiz oriented talk show \"Startalk\", which she co-hosted with Boy Abunda and Lolit Solis, that her hosting skills attracted attention.\n\nAfter GMA and Viva dropped her, she went back to ABS-CBN, where she was offered a contract and launched \"Today with Kris Aquino\". from 2002 to 2004, she hosted the talk show \"Morning Girls with Kris and Korina\", alongside known broadcast journalist Korina Sanchez, which was intended to last for only two weeks, but went on for 16 months. In 2007, she officially left \"The Buzz\" and \"Pilipinas, Game Ka Na Ba?\" after giving birth to her second son, James Bimby. She was replaced by Edu Manzano on \"Pilipinas, Game KNB?\". According to Aquino, she had to give up her hosting stint on the shows to devote more time to her live-in partners. She may not have wanted to return to \"The Buzz\" because she no longer wanted to work with former co-host Cristy Fermin.\n\nIn the October 2008 issue of \"YES! Magazine\", Aquino was named the leading celebrity endorser, ranking number one among the 20 favorite celebrity endorsers.\n\nAquino hosted the \"Philippine franchise\" of \"Deal or No Deal\", which is part of ABS-CBN's primetime lineup. It ended its first season on 23 February 2007. The second season of the game show started on 11 June 2007. On 5 May 2008, she appeared on the US version as part of a \"Deal or No Deal\" \"around the world\" event which was hosted by Howie Mandel where an American contestant was taken to an international location, and played the game in that country, with the local models and host assisting Mandel. She hosts \"Boy & Kris\", a morning talk show that replaced \"Homeboy,\" together with Boy Abunda, and \"Be Bench\", a model search show together with Piolo Pascual. Nestor Torre, a critic of the entertainment industry in the Philippines, posted that Aquino took a lot of risks when she chose to give up her two former shows. He pointed out that giving up \"The Buzz\" and \"Pilipinas, Game KNB?\" deprived her of the major exposure that those two popular shows afforded her. He noted that it is much more difficult to launch new shows successfully than to resume hosting programs that are already popular.\n\nShe hosted another TV franchise, \"Wheel of Fortune\", which replaced \"Kapamilya, Deal or No Deal\". She said in an interview that she was a huge fan of the US version and was thrilled to bring the show back to her country. (\"Wheel of Fortune\" had already had one 2001-2002 run in the Philippines, which was hosted by Rustom Padilla and Victoria Wonderheim.) She hosted \"Showbiz News Ngayon\" during its newest season. In October 2008, after former \"The Buzz\" co-host Cristy Fermin was suspended by ABS-CBN, the Kapamilya network asked Aquino to once again host the top-rated, showbiz-oriented talk show with Boy Abunda and Ruffa Gutierrez. After much controversy, Aquino hosted \"The Buzz\" again beginning on 26 October 2008.\n\nShe officially left \"Showbiz News Ngayon\" In 2010, and \"The Buzz\" In 2010, after being an on-and-off main host of the show for 10 years. The reason she gave for leaving the show was that she would be spending time with her family and sought to prevent any issues while her brother Benigno Aquino III was in office as president of the Philippines. Despite taking a leave for her family, she hosted ABS-CBN's new noontime variety show called \"Pilipinas Win Na Win\", but left after two months at the decision of the management. In late 2011, Aquino returned and hosted her new morning talk show titled \"Kris TV\" on ABS-CBN. On the first anniversary of the show, the management, and Aquino invited Chiz Escudero as co-host and special guest. She would later take a break from showbiz following a dispute with James Yap, her ex-husband.\n\nOn 8 March 2016, Aquino announced that she would be leaving ABS-CBN on 23 March, due to health issues and to spend more time with her family.\n\nAquino got her start in film with the help of Regal Films, one of the oldest film companies in the Philippines, appearing in \"\". Her early film appearances include the Pido Dida series, in which she was paired with comedian Rene Requiestas and earned her first box office queen award. She later shifted to roles in massacre films, including \"Vizconde Massacre\", \"Myrna Diones Story\", \"Elsa Castillo-Ang Katotohanan\", and \"Humanda Ka Mayor\".\n\nShe first drew praise for her acting in \"The Fatima Buen Story\". She eventually won a supporting actress award for the movie \"Mano Po\" (2002 Regal Films), in which she portrayed a weak-willed and submissive scion of a wealthy Filipino-Chinese clan. She appeared in the 2004 film \"So... Happy Together\". The most commercially successful movies in her career include \"Feng Shui\", a Star Cinema production that featured Chinese influences and omen. \"Feng Shui\", which was made during the wave of \"Asian-style horror\" flicks that spread throughout the continent after 2002's \"The Ring\", made P137 million. It was the highest grossing Filipino movie of 2004, and the second most successful movie overall that year, next to \"Spider-Man 2\", which earned more than P225 million. In 2006, \"Sukob\", another horror thriller, became the highest grossing Filipino film of all time surpassing \"Ang Tanging Ina\", \"Anak\", and \"Feng Shui\".\n\nAquino had her share of box office bombs. Her 2003 movie with actor Robin Padilla, \"You and Me Against the World\", was an outright box office flop. Made for P25,000,000 and released immediately after Aquino won acting awards for her performance in 2002's \"Mano Po\", \"You and Me Against the World\" made only P4,389,005. The film's producers lost an estimated P23,000,000, even accounting for home videos. Because \"You and Me Against the World\" failed to attract an audience, several movie theaters pulled the film and replaced it with another film. Some theaters reportedly did this on the movie's second day of play.\n\nIn June 2012, \"Kimmy Dora\" Part 2 was finally showing in all theaters nationwide in the Philippines, produced by Star Cinema of ABS-CBN and directed by Bb. Joyce Bernal. Aquino portrayed a particular role in the movie sequence. Some parts of the movie were filmed in Seoul, South Korea.\n\nShe is executive editor of a bimonthly magazine called \"K! The Kris Aquino Magazine\". In December 2009, Aquino showcased her home collection called \"K Everyday\". In partnership with ABS-CBN Licensing, \"K Everyday\" features cooking, kitchen-wares, plastic, and stationery collections.\n\nOn 16 April 2017, she announced via her Instagram account that she will be starring in a \"big Hollywood studio movie about to start filming.\" This movie turned out to be \"Crazy Rich Asians\", in which she played the role of Princess Intan.\n\nAquino had a live-in relationship with married actor Phillip Salvador, with whom she has a son named Joshua. In 2003, she dated comedian John Lemuel Garces.\n\nAquino was married to Philippine Basketball Association professional player James Yap in a civil marriage ceremony on 10 July 2005. The following year, she announced on \"The Buzz\" that she was pregnant. In April 2007, Aquino gave birth to her first son by Yap, James Carlos \"Bimby\" Aquino Yap, Jr., in Makati City. In 2006, a former medical clinic receptionist stated that Yap had had an extra-marital affair with her. In 2010, Aquino announced that she had separated from Yap, citing personal reasons, and stated she was seeking a divorce. \n\nOn 21 March 2013, Aquino appeared in a 30-minute interview with \"TV Patrol\" to announce her resignation from all of her ABS-CBN shows in order to spend time with her youngest son. \n\nAquino later stated that Yap threatened her, and she filed a temporary protection order on 20 March 2013.\n\nAside from her TV and movie career, Aquino owns and manages several businesses. She co-owns Lena Restaurant and Sencillo, a Mexican restaurant, as well as Roberto Antonio, an upscale flower shop with business partner Boy Abunda. \n\nShe founded a boutique and agency in partnership with Abunda and other personalities including Nonon del Carmen and Agnes Maranan. The boutique and agency was named MAD (an acronym for their surnames). She co-owns Sierra Madre Water. Aquino also owns numerous fast food store franchises such as Jollibee and Chowking and owns Nacho Bimby (aka Potato Corner) - a company that's under his youngest son's namesake. \n\nIn 2013, Aquino established a film and television production company, and film distributor called Kris Aquino Productions (or K Productions).\n\nIt is managed by Star Cinema, the country's largest motion picture company, which has produced most of the highest grossing Filipino films of all time. Its debut film was \"Instant Mommy\" starring Eugene Domingo. She produced her son's debut movie, \"My Little Bossings\", in 2013.\n\nStarting in 2010, she had already begun co-producing Star Cinema films in which she starred, including \"Dalaw\" (2010), \"Segunda Mano\" (2011), and \"Sisterakas\" (2012). Feng Shui 2 was the last movie produced by K Productions in 2014.\n\nIn 2015, Aquino started producing vlogs on her own website, specifically cooking and travel vlogs.\n"}
{"id": "9672920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9672920", "title": "Lady Cochrane Sursock", "text": "Lady Cochrane Sursock\n\nYvonne, Lady Cochrane (\"née\" Sursock) is a philanthropist, a prominent public figure and advocate of the arts in Lebanon, and a member of the historic Sursock family.\n\nShe was born on May 18, 1922, the only daughter of Alfred \"Bey\" Sursock, a Lebanese aristocrat, and \"Donna\" Maria Theresa Serra di Cassano, the daughter of Francesco Serra, 7th Duke of Cassano. In 1946, she married Sir Desmond Cochrane, 3rd Baronet. \n\nShe was president of the committee and general manager of the Sursock Museum in Beirut from 1960 until 1966. She founded the Association for the Protection of the Natural Sites and Ancient Buildings (French: \"Association pour la protection des sites et anciennes demeures\"; APSAD) in Lebanon and was its president from 1960 until 2002. \nHer work today focuses on projects that seek to reduce Lebanese emigration and to support people in their villages of origin, by creating jobs for them in the fields of agriculture, textiles and handcrafts. She is also involved in the protection of the natural environment in Lebanon and in the preservation of the country's unique architectural and cultural heritage.\n\nShe is the owner of Sursock House, plus a broad swath of property along Rue Sursock, up to the trendy Rue Gouraud.\n\n"}
{"id": "56582593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56582593", "title": "Laënnec Hurbon", "text": "Laënnec Hurbon\n\nLaënnec Hurbon (sometimes anglicised as Laennec Hurbon; born 1940) is a Haitian sociologist and writer specialised in the relationships between , culture and politics in the Caribbean region. He is an ex-priest turned researcher and writer.\n\nHurbon was born in Jacmel, a commune in southern Haiti. He is Doctor of Theology (Institut Catholique de Paris) and Sociology (Sorbonne University), director of research at CNRS and professor at the Quisqueya University in Port-au-Prince, of which he is one of the founding members. Today he focuses on the relationships between religion, culture and politics in the Caribbean region and has written many books on Haitian Vodou.\n\nHis notable publications are the (1972) and (1987), which have been described as “two classics” of the author; and the “small ‘big book’” – (1993, US ed. – \"Voodoo: Search for the Spirit\"), which is a heavily illustrated pocket book from Éditions Gallimard’s “Découvertes” collection. He also edited a collective work entitled (2014).\n\nRooted in the history of Haiti, Laënnec Hurbon presents us Vodou in this small but copiously illustrated book, entitled (lit. \"The Mysteries of Vodou\"; US edition – \"Voodoo: Search for the Spirit\"; UK edition – \"Voodoo: Truth and Fantasy\"), which Christiane Veauvy—a researcher at CNRS—calls it \"a great achievement\", and \"the iconography is of exceptional beauty\", in her article dedicated to this book. After so many persecutions—those of the slave society, the Catholic Church, the racism, the horror sensations because of devils and zombies, also of Haitian authorities after the , even though Vodou has supported the freedom to slaves—after the drastic political exploitation by François Duvalier, Vodou remains \"one of the most inalienable cultural resources of Haitian people\". The book also suggests the complex role played by Vodou in the fall of Duvalier's dictatorship.\n\nThe plan of the work is dictated by this historico-political perspective, there are seven chapters: Ⅰ, \"The Great Crossing\"; Ⅱ, \"Voodoo Hidden in the Hell of Slavery\"; Ⅲ, \"Campaigns Against Sorcery\"; Ⅳ, \"The Spirit of the 'Lwa'\"; Ⅴ, \"The Cult of the Dead\"; Ⅵ, \"'Manjé-Lwa', 'Dansé-Lwa': The Services\"; Ⅶ, \"An Astonishing Survival\". The first three chapters trace the history of Vodou in Haiti from \"the great crossing\" to the time of the American occupation (1915–1934) and the advent of Duvalier (chap. Ⅲ), going through the period when \"Vodou hidden in the hell of slavery\" (chap. Ⅱ). It is only then that Hurbon systematically exposes the beliefs and practices of Vodou as a system articulating a mythology, rituals and standards of behaviour (chaps. Ⅳ–Ⅵ).\n\nThe last chapter is devoted to the \"astonishing survival\" of Vodou. Hurbon addresses the issue of the establishment of Protestant sects that \"by passing off all the \"lwa\" as evil or satanic forces, the message of the Protestant sects revives the fantasy of sorcery\", and also questions whether \"Voodoo has a tendency to draw its worshippers towards the past, placing them under the authority of tradition (symbolized by the dead, the ancestors, the \"lwa\") rather than more flexible rules, subject to modern rational thinking?\" Whatever the case may be, Vodou is \"a piece of worldwide cultural patrimony\", and a civilisation \"extending from Africa to the Americas\". The following \"Documents\" section containing a compilation of excerpts which is divided into six parts: 1, The devil, voodoo and the missionaries; 2, The antisuperstitious campaigns; 3, How the \"lwa\" show themselves to humans; 4, For the rehabilitation of voodoo; 5, Voodoo in art; 6, People travel, so do spirits. These are followed by a glossary, chronology, further reading, list of illustrations and index. With this work, the reader can have a complete and excellent point about Vodou in its many dimensions.\n\nThe book is profusely illustrated with colour plates—drawings, photographs, Haitian paintings, etc.—so it could also serve indirectly as a study of Haitian Vodou iconography. It has been translated into American and British English, Korean, Russian and Spanish. Professor Patrick Bellegarde-Smith notes that the original French edition printed many of the black and white photographs in the \"Documents\" section on better paper than the English edition; and also the mistranslation of the term by using \"Voodoo\" instead of \"Vodou\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30159657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30159657", "title": "Leonora Sansay", "text": "Leonora Sansay\n\nLeonora Sansay (December 11, 1773 – 1821) was an American novelist. She was the author of \"Secret History; or, The Horrors of St. Domingo, in a Series of Letters Written by a Lady at Cape Francois to Col. Burr, late Vice-President of the United States, Principally During the Command of General Rochambeau\" (Philadelphia, 1808) and \"Laura\" (Philadelphia, 1809), and possibly three other novels: \"Zelica: The Creole\" (London, 1820); \"The Scarlet Handkerchief\" (London, 1823); and \"The Stranger in Mexico\" (not extant).\n\nShe was born Honora Davern in Philadelphia on December 11, 1773 to Rosa and William Davern, the latter of whom died at sea a few weeks after her birth, probably in January 1774. On Valentine's Day 1779, her mother married a Philadelphia innkeeper named William Hassel (sometimes Hassal); Sansay's stepfather maintained Hassal's Tavern (or The Half Moon — a generic name for an English pub), which was located across from the State House (Independence Hall), where local politicians and members of Congress often met informally.\n\nRosa and William Hassel had two children of their own, Sansay's half-siblings, Mary (born November 12, 1781) and William (born December 24, 1784). Incidentally, it was Mary who has often been mistakenly credited with the authorship of \"Secret History\" and \"Laura\" (the mistake derives from the name of the author-character of \"Secret History,\" also named Mary). (For Leonora's and siblings' birth dates, Rosa & Hassel's marriage, and other early biographical details, see Jennifer Van Bergen, \"Reconstructing Leonora Sansay\".)\n\nAt some point in the mid- to late 1790s (she shows up in the Philadelphia City Directory for 1796 as \"Eleonora Hassel, Gentlewoman\"), Sansay met Aaron Burr, who became her confidant and patron. (Sansay stated that she met him after the death of her fiancé, who had left a letter leaving her and their unborn child \"to his protection.\" While there are scattered references in \"Secret History\" to Leonora's son, it is unknown what became of her child, if indeed she did have one.) Some scholars believe Burr and Sansay were lovers, but this is contested by Van Bergen. Burr continued to play an important role in Sansay's life until she disappeared from the historical record.\n\nLeonora writes in \"Secret History\" that Burr convinced her to marry Louis Sansay (\"St. Louis\"), then a New York merchant having fled his plantation in Saint-Domingue (now Haïti), a French colony subject to a massive slave uprising that would ultimately end with the declaration of Haitian Independence in 1804. In early 1802, Louis Sansay made plans to return to Haiti to reclaim his property. He sent Leonora to visit Burr in Washington to obtain letters of recommendation and a passport for Louis. Corroborating the purpose of Leonora's visit, Burr also wrote to his cousin, Pierpont Edwards:\n\nLouis Sansay wrote Burr several letters during the time Leonora stayed in Washington with Burr. In these letters, Louis asked that, \"considering the affection and the attachment that you always have attested for [Leonora]\", Burr would \"employ yourself for us ... to obtain for me at the expense of the French government my passage [to Haiti] and that of my wife, my daughter and of my two servants by making him see that I am without means.\" Louis thanked Burr for \"all the kindnesses that you were willing to show for her and for me\" and informed Burr that he was taking Leonora with him to Haiti (despite the dangers there), that he hoped Burr would urge her to return to New York as soon as possible to set sail with Louis, \"as it is impossible for me to be happy without her possession very near.\"\n\nEach subsequent letter after Louis' first one manifested increasing anxiety on his part about Leonora. Finally, on April 2, Louis wrote Burr with \"horrible anxiety\" about Leonora, saying it had been nine days and he had received only one letter from her, claiming he feared she was ill, but contradicting himself by charging her with \"flightineses and fickleness\" and claiming \"I tremble that her intention is to abandon me.\" Declaring he would \"sacrifice even my life rather than to see her in the possession of another,\" Louis begged Burr \"to reassure my heart, which is broken with pain,\" \"to urge her to come back as promptly as possible.\" Trying to convince Burr that he only had \"her happiness and mine\" at heart, Louis promised to bestow $12,000 dollars upon her (even though in his 3/22 letter, he had stated that \"after all the misfortunes that I endured, sir, recently and my resources being almost exhausted\") if Burr could manage to get her to go to Haiti with him.\n\nLeonora returned to Louis and the couple embarked for Haiti in late May or early June. From Haiti, Sansay continued corresponding with Burr; these letters form the basis for Sansay's first book, \"Secret History\". They describe the final days of French rule on the island.\n\nAfter departing Haiti, Leonora and Louis lived for a time in Cuba. But when his \"intolerable and groundless jealousy\" grew to the point where \"[i]n every man that approached me he saw a rival\" and when he \"came home [one night] in a transport of fury, dragged me from my bed, said it was his intention to destroy me, and swore that he would render me horrible by rubbing aqua-fortis [nitric acid] in my face,\" Leonora left him, escaping in the dark of night to a remote village 12 miles away.\n\nEventually Sansay made her way to Jamaica and back to Philadelphia. She next played a part in Burr's alleged 1806–07 conspiracy, for which he was indicted (and acquitted) for high misdemeanor and treason in 1807. Sansay appears in a March 1, 1808 news item in \"The Richmond Enquirer\" under one of her pseudonyms, Madame D'Auvergne, an apparent francisation of her birth name (Davern). (See Thomas Abernethy, \"Burr Conspiracy\" (1954), p. 270 - Robert T. Spence testified he had sailed from Philadelphia to New Orleans \"with Bollman, Alexander, and a Madame D'Auvergne, alias Nora Haskel\"]. See also Davis, \"Private Journal of AB,\" Mrs. --- to Burr, 11-6-1808, 1:78-79 - \"Just before I left New-Orleans I received a present of elegant medals from my friend in Mexico.\" Architect Benjamin Latrobe also noted Leonora's presence in New Orleans: Benjamin H. Latrobe, \"The Correspondence and Miscellaneous Papers of Benjamin Henry Latrobe,\" John C. Van Horne and Lee W. Formwalt, eds., Papers Of Benjamin Henry Latrobe Series, Series 4, 1805-1810. (New Haven, 1987), 2:259 - He wrote to Lewis DeMun in New Orleans: \"If you see M. D'Avergne [sic], say every thing that the sincerest respect would prompt.\")\n\nAfter the Burr trial, Sansay returned again to Philadelphia and wrote and published \"Secret History; or, The Horrors of St. Domingo, in a Series of Letters Written by a Lady at Cape Francois to Col. Burr, late Vice-President of the United States, Principally During the Command of General Rochambeau\". The following year, Sansay's \"Laura\" appeared in print from the same press, Bradford & Inskeep. She set up a flower manufacturing business with the help of Eric Bollman.\n\nSansay makes periodic appearances in Burr's correspondence, though the vast majority of these letters have been lost. Burr shared her letters with Jeremy Bentham while in exile in Europe after his acquittal.\n\nFurther references to Leonora may be found under the names \"Clara\" and \"Mme. D'Auvergne\" in Burr's \"Private Journal\" at: 1:30 [Eric Bollman to AB, 8-11-1808]; 1:78 [Mrs. --- to Burr <Phila.>, 11-6-1808](also in Drexler, pp. 231–32); 1:84-85 [Bollman to AB, 11-12/1808, corroborates Mrs. --- 11-6 letter]; 1:146 [Burr journal entry, 1-20-1809]; 1:149 [Burr journal entry, 2-1-1809; Davis footnote identifying Clara as \"Madame D'Auvergne, but better known as Leonora Sansay, author of the Horrors of St. Domingo\"]; 1:170 [AB to Jeremy Bentham, 1-23-1809]; 1:242 [Theodosia Burr Alston to AB, 5-31-1809]; 2:440-46 [Mrs. L****** to AB (Phila.), 7-29-1812 - refers to Bollman](also in Drexler, pp. 232–35).\n\nMore references are in M.L. Davis \"Memoirs of AB\": 2:175 [Mrs. ****** to AB, 2-9-1802 - 2 months before her departure for Haiti; not ascertained to be from LS]; 2:323 [AB to TBA, 7-10-1804 - letters of Clara sometimes \"L\" - shortly before Burr's duel]; 2:326 [AB to Joseph Alston, 7-10-1804, \"Madame Sansay, too well known under the name of Leonora, has claims on my recollection.\"]. See also Charles Burdett, \"Margaret Moncrieffe: The First Love of Aaron Burr\" (1860), pp. 428–37, reprinted in Michael J. Drexler's edition of \"Secret History\" and \"Laura,\" pp. 223–31. And Mary-Jo Kline, \"Political Correspondence & Public Papers of Aaron Burr\" (1983) 2:70, AB to Pierpont Edwards, 3-20-1802.\n\nInteresting apochrypha: A notation on the flyleaf of an original edition of \"Secret History\" (1808) in the Library Company of Philadelphia, reads (partly accurate, partly inaccurate): \"[T]his book was written by Miss Hassal[.] Her Father kept the Sign of ye 1/2 Moon opposite ye State House. -- She had a Sister who married one of ye Indian's [Creole?] on a Visit here in 1791. -- She went with them but I believe was never hea[r]d from after.\" Maxwell Struthers Burt wrote in \"Philadelphia: Holy Experiment\" (1947) that Sansay was \"mysterious and will remain mysterious,\" adding \"Discreet historians have abandoned her in despair on the principles that if you ignore something it won't bite you\" (p. 236).\n\nTwo other novels may be attributed to Sansay: \"Zelica, the Creole\" (1820) and \"The Scarlet Handkerchief\" (1823). Both were published in London, but indicate that they were transmitted from America. The flyleaf for \"Zelica, the Crole\" advertises the author's other works as follows: \"In the press, by the same author, The Scarlet Handkerchief, 3 vols. The Stranger in Mexico, 3 vols. Which, with Zelica, the Creole, now published, from a Series of Novels that have been transmitted to the Publisher from America\" Likewise, \"The Scarlet Handkerchief\" credits \"An American, also the author of Zelica, the Creole\" as its author. The third novel, \"A Stranger in Mexico\", is promoted, though no copies have been found. It is unknown why or when Sansay traveled to England, but she appears to have died there. Her interment on November 12, 1821 in the Parish of Newent, County of Gloucester is recorded in the Church of England Burials.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57425205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57425205", "title": "Li Landi", "text": "Li Landi\n\nLi Landi (; born 2 September 1999), also known as Landy Li, is a Chinese actress.\n\nLi was enrolled in the Central Academy of Drama in 2018, after placing second in the National Higher Education Entrance Examination.\n\nLi debuted at the age of 10, starring in the movie \"Aini Shugeleshui\". \n\nLi first gained attention with her role in the family drama \"Chinese Style Relationship\" (2016). The following year, she took on lead roles in the youth drama \"All About Secrets\" and \"Wu Xin: The Monster Killer 2\", which gained her increased recognition. Li subsequently appeared in the campus drama \"My Huckleberry Friends\" as Yu Zhouzhou, and romance drama \"Never Gone\" as the younger version of the female protagonist; receiving positive reviews for her performance.\n"}
{"id": "59999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59999", "title": "Lola Montez", "text": "Lola Montez\n\nMarie Dolores Eliza Rosanna Gilbert, Countess of Landsfeld (17 February 1821 – 17 January 1861), better known by the stage name Lola Montez (), was an Irish dancer and actress who became famous as a \"Spanish dancer\", courtesan, and mistress of King Ludwig I of Bavaria, who made her Countess of Landsfeld. She used her influence to institute liberal reforms. At the start of the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states, she was forced to flee. She proceeded to the United States via Switzerland, France and London, returning to her work as an entertainer and lecturer.\n\nLola's mother, Eliza(beth) Oliver was the child of Charles Silver Oliver, a former High Sheriff of Cork and member of Parliament for Kilmallock in County Limerick. Their residence was Castle Oliver. In December 1818, Ensign Edward Gilbert met Eliza Oliver when he arrived with the 25th Regiment. They were married on 29 April 1820, and Lola was born the following February, refuting persistent rumours that her mother was pregnant with her at the time of the wedding. The young family made their residence at King House in Boyle, County Roscommon, until early 1823, when they journeyed to Liverpool, thence departing for India on 14 March.\n\nAs with many other aspects of her life, discrepant reports of the birth of Eliza Gilbert have been published. For many years, it was accepted that she was born in the city of Limerick, as she herself claimed, possibly on 23 June 1818; this year was graven on her headstone. However, when her baptismal certificate came to light in the late 1990s, it was established that Eliza Rosanna Gilbert was actually born in Grange, County Sligo, on 17 February 1821. She was baptized at St Peter's Church in Liverpool on 16 February 1823, while her family was \"en route\" to her father's post in India.\n\nShortly after their arrival in India, Edward Gilbert died of cholera.\n\nHer mother, who was now 19, married another officer, Lieutenant Patrick Craigie, the following year. Craigie quickly came to care for a young Eliza, but her spoiled and half-wild ways concerned him greatly.\n\nEventually, it was agreed she would be sent back to Britain to attend school, staying with Craigie's father in Montrose, Scotland, at first. But the \"queer, wayward little Indian girl\" rapidly became known as a mischief-maker. On one occasion, she stuck flowers into the wig of an elderly man during a church service; on another, she ran through the streets naked.\n\nAt the age of ten, Eliza was moved on again – this time to Sunderland, England. When her stepfather's older sister, Catherine Rae, set up a boarding school in Monkwearmouth with her husband, Eliza joined them to continue her education.\n\nEliza's determination and temper were to become her trademarks. Her stay in Sunderland lasted only a year, as she was then transferred to a school in Camden Place (now Camden Crescent), Bath for a more sophisticated education.\n\nIn 1837, 16-year-old Eliza eloped with Lieutenant Thomas James, and they married. The couple separated five years later, in Calcutta, and she became a professional dancer under a stage name.\n\nShe had her London debut as \"Lola Montez, the Spanish dancer\" in June 1843, but she had been recognized as \"Mrs. James\". The resulting notoriety hampered her career in England and she departed for the continent, where she had success in Paris and Warsaw. At this time, she was almost certainly accepting favours from a few wealthy men, and was regarded by many as a courtesan.\n\nIn 1844, Lola made a personally disappointing Parisian stage début as a dancer in Fromental Halévy's opera, \"Le lazzarone\". She met and had an affair with Franz Liszt, who introduced her to the circle of George Sand. After performing in various European capitals, she settled in Paris, where she was accepted in the rather Bohemian literary society of the time, being acquainted with Alexandre Dumas père, with whom she was rumoured to have had a dalliance. In Paris she would meet Alexandre Dujarier, \"owner of the newspaper with the highest circulation in France, and also the newspaper's drama critic.\" Through their romance Montez revitalized her career as a dancer. Later on, after the two had their first quarrel over Lola's attendance to a party, Dujarier would attend the party and then in a drunken state offend Jean-Bapiste Rosemond de Beauvallon. Dujarier would be challenged to a duel by de Beauvallon and would be shot and killed.\n\nIn 1846, she arrived in Munich, where she was discovered by and became the mistress of Ludwig I of Bavaria. The rumour was, at the time they met, Ludwig had asked her in public if her bosom was real, to which her response was to tear off enough of her garments to prove that it was. She soon began to use her influence on the King and this, coupled with her arrogant manner and outbursts of temper, made her unpopular with the local population (particularly after documents were made public showing that she was hoping to become a naturalized Bavarian citizen and be elevated to nobility). Despite the opposition, Ludwig made her Countess of Landsfeld on his next birthday, 25 August 1847. Along with her title, he granted her a large annuity.\n\nFor more than a year, she exercised great political power, which she directed in favor of liberalism, against the conservatives and the Jesuits. Her influence became so great that the ultramontane administration of Karl von Abel was dismissed because that minister objected to her being made Countess Landsfeld. The students of the university were divided in their sympathies, and conflicts arose shortly before the outbreak of the revolutions of 1848, which led the King, at Lola's instigation, to close the university. In March 1848, under pressure from a growing revolutionary movement, the university was re-opened, Ludwig abdicated, and Montez fled Bavaria, her career as a power behind the throne at an end. It seems likely that Ludwig's relationship with Montez contributed greatly to the fall from grace of the previously popular king.\n\nAfter a sojourn in Switzerland, where she waited in vain for Ludwig to join her, she made one brief excursion to France and then removed to London in late 1848. There she met and quickly married George Trafford Heald, a young army cornet (cavalry officer) with a recent inheritance. But the terms of her divorce from Thomas James did not permit either spouse's remarriage while the other was living, and the beleaguered newly-weds were forced to flee the country to escape a bigamy action brought by Heald's scandalized maiden aunt. The Healds resided for a time in France and Spain, but within two years, the tempestuous relationship was in tatters, and George reportedly drowned. In 1851 she set off to make a new start in the United States, where she was surprisingly successful at first in rehabilitating her image.\n\nFrom 1851 to 1853, she performed as a dancer and actress in the eastern United States, one of her offerings being a play called \"Lola Montez in Bavaria\". In May 1853, she arrived at San Francisco. Her performances there created a sensation, but soon inspired a popular satire, \"Who's Got the Countess?\". She married Patrick Hull, a local newspaperman, in July and moved to Grass Valley, California, in August. Her marriage soon failed; a doctor named as in the divorce suit brought against her was shortly after murdered.\n\nMontez remained in Grass Valley at her little house for nearly two years. The restored Home of Lola Montez went on to become California Historical Landmark No. 292. Montez served as an inspiration to another aspiring young entertainer, Lotta Crabtree, to whom she provided dancing lessons. Lotta's parents ran a boarding house in Grass Valley, and Lotta soon attracted the attention of her neighbor Montez, who encouraged Lotta's enthusiasm for performance.\n\nIn June 1855, Montez departed for a tour of Australia to resume her career by entertaining miners at the gold diggings during the gold-rush of the 1850s, arriving at Sydney on 16 August 1855.\n\nHistorian Michael Cannon claims that \"In September 1855 she performed her erotic Spider Dance at the Theatre Royal in Melbourne, raising her skirts so high that the audience could see she wore no underclothing at all. Next day, the \"Argus\" thundered that her performance was 'utterly subversive to all ideas of public morality'. Respectable families ceased to attend the theatre, which began to show heavy losses.\" At Castlemaine in April 1856, she was \"rapturously encored\" after her Spider Dance in front of 400 diggers (including members of the Municipal Council who had adjourned their meeting early to attend the performance), but drew the wrath of the audience by insulting them following some mild heckling.\n\nShe earned further notoriety in Ballarat when, after reading a bad review in \"The Ballarat Times\", she allegedly attacked the editor, Henry Seekamp, with a whip. The \"Lola Montes Polka\" (composed by Albert Denning) is rumored to have been inspired by this event; however, the song was published in 1855 and the incident with Seekamp occurred months later in February 1856.\n\nShe departed for San Francisco on 22 May 1856. On the return voyage her manager was lost after going overboard.\n\nLola failed in attempts at a theatrical comeback in various American cities. \n\nShe arranged in 1857 to deliver a series of moral lectures in Britain and America written by Rev. Charles Chauncey Burr.\n\nShe spent her last days in rescue work among women. In November 1859, the \"Philadelphia Press\" reported that Lola Montez was \n\nliving very quietly up town, and doesn't have much to do with the world's people. Some of her old friends, the Bohemians, now and then drop in to have a little chat with her, and though she talks beautifully of her present feelings and way of life, she generally, by way of parenthesis, takes out her little tobacco pouch and makes a cigarette or two for self and friend, and then falls back upon old times with decided gusto and effect. But she doesn't tell anybody what she's going to do.\n\nBy then she was showing the tertiary effects of syphilis and her body began to waste away. She died at the age of 39 on 17 January 1861. She is buried in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York, where her tombstone states: \"Mrs. Eliza Gilbert / Died 17 January 1861\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16023076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16023076", "title": "Luis Farell", "text": "Luis Farell\n\nLuis Farell Cubillas (September 27, 1902 – July 17, 1977) was a Mexican Air Force combat pilot during the Revolution of the 1920s. He fought against Adolfo de la Huerta, the Yaqui rebels, General Arnulfo R. Gomez, against the Cristeros and accomplished several bombing and strafing missions against the military coup headed by General José Gonzalo Escobar and the revolt by General Saturnino Cedillo. Farell retired from active service as a Division General while being Sub-Chief of the Mexican Air Force.\n\nFarell Cubillas was born in San Pedro de las Colonias, Coahuila, Mexico, being son of Consuelo Cubillas Gutiérrez – a native of Santander, Spain- and the jeweler Enrique Farell Solá – a native of Lerida, Catalonia, Spain. Luis Farell had 11 siblings, including the senior politician Arsenio Farell Cubillas.\n\nLuis Farell attended school in Mexico City and in February 1911 at the age of 9 years and along with 30,000 spectators, Farell witnessed the aerial exhibition of the Moisant brothers with Blériot airplanes carried out in the fields of Balbuena in Mexico City. In 1920, at the age of 18 years, Farell graduated as accountant just after the military-political events that caused the fall of President Venustiano Carranza. This rebellion had three important leaders: General Alvaro Obregón, General Plutarco Elías Calles and Adolfo de la Huerta.\nIn August 1920, the President Adolfo de la Huerta hired three famous veteran and foreign pilots of World War I with the purpose of training Mexican pilots in modern tactics and organizing a functional air force. The foreign instructors were the American Ralph O'Neill, the German Fritz Bieler and the French instructor Joe Ben Lievre. Ralph O'Neill was designated as Chief Instructor of the Military school of Aviation and under orders of General Gustavo Salinas; the Mexican instructors were Alberto Carranza, Horacio Ruiz Gaviño and the brothers Juan Pablo Aldasoro and Eduardo Aldasoro.\n\nWhen the Mexican government announced recruitment of aviators for the new Mexican Air Force, Farell applied on July 12, 1920, and enrolled as a cadet on November 11, 1920. This was a time at which, given the shortage produced by the war in Europe, Mexico had only 18 airplanes: four \"Brown Special\" biplanes and some TNCA made in Mexico. O'Neill reported to General Calles that most of the fleet available (13 airplanes in good condition and 5 in disrepair) had to be replaced since they were obsolete and worn away. Therefore, Mexico acquired some English Avro 504K and Avro 504J airplanes, which later would be made in Mexico with the name \"Avro Anáhuac.\" In addition, in May 1920 Mexico acquired thirteen twin-engine bombers Farman F.50.\n\nLuis Farell graduated on April 24 of 1922 with the degree of Lieutenant and was initially assigned to the 'Observation and Bombing Squadron'. His lower scores were fencing and English language, while his higher scores were use of firearms and landings to the mark with obstructions.\nOn January 11, 1925, he was commissioned to become a flight instructor and on May 24, 1926, he travelled to the United States to undergo a special aeronautics course in the military school located in Brooks Field, Texas.\n\nOn December 7 of 1923, ex-President Adolfo de la Huerta launched a military coup later called the \"delahuertista rebellion\" against the government of President Alvaro Obregón. The situation was extremely critical because along with de la Huerta, about sixty percent of the army revolted, including various high ranking Generals across Mexico.\nMexico quickly reequipped and reorganized the military aviation and, with the help of the United States, it received new combat airplanes consisting of several de Havilland DH-4B with Liberty motor, armed with Lewis and Vickers machine guns and able to carry bombs.\nDuring December 10–21 of 1923, Farell’s squadron made explorations and bombings on San Marcos, Aguascalientes, San Carlos Fortress in Perote, Veracruz and Puente de Ixtla, Morelos. Then, Farell attacked enemy convoys in Iguala, Pachuca and intermediate locations in company of his friend Squadron Commander Roberto Fierro VIllalobos.\n\nOn December 11, 1923, the important city of Puebla was taken by enemy forces and, eleven days later on December 22, and in company of pilot and artilleryman Lieutenant Guillermo Monroy, Farell bombed and machine-gunned the forts of Loreto, Guadalupe and San Juán, as well as enemy positions in the city of Puebla. He later moved on to attack rebels operating in the southern states of Tabasco, Oaxaca and Chiapas, where their engine failed and crashed in the dense jungle; fortunately, they were unharmed. In a lucky turn of events Farell and Monroy were rescued by Mayan natives and brought to a nearby town.\n\nIn January 1924, Farell began his duties in the north-western front against the Generals Enrique Estrada and Manuel Macario Diéguez, who controlled most of Chihuahua, Jalisco, Guanajuato, Michoacán and Durango states. Luis Farell made explorations, strafing and bombings on enemy bases in the cities of Pénjamo, Yuriria and Moroleón in the state of Guanajuato; and in Michoacán, he attacked positions in the cities of Morelia, Panindícuaro and intermediate points of opportunity.\nFrom January 14 to February 6, 1924, Luis Farell made several bombings and strafing as artilleryman of Colonel Ralph O'Neill on the state of Colima.\n\nOn February 4 of 1924, Luis Farell was promoted to Squadron Commander of the \"First Squadron, Second Regiment\" and, on February 9, 1924, he took part in the critical battle of Ocotlán, in Jalisco, a decisive and cruel battle in which Generals Joaquín Amaro and Lázaro Cárdenas lead 10,000 troops against the forces commanded by rebel General Salvador Alvarado. Since the Lerma River divided to the troops of both sides, the artillery and the Air Force were indispensable during the early hours of combat: At 07:00AM Farell's squadron flew the first of two missions, bombing and strafing the enemy until ran out of ammunition. After raising an improvised bridge, the federal forces won the battle and took several prisoners.Three days later, the federal forces easily recovered the city of Guadalajara, where Estrada's headquarter was based, but he managed to escape to Cuba, while and Diéguez escaped to the south, where he was arrested and executed.\n\nOn February 12, 1924, Farell mounted several attacks on the state of Colima, where was still some resistance. During the campaign in the northwest, Farell served under the orders of General Salinas, Colonel Ralph O’Neill, Majors Rafael Montero Ramos, Rafael Ponce de León and Alfredo Lezama Álvarez. Some fellow fliers were men like Alfonso Cruz Rivera, Roberto Fierro Villalobos, Pablo Sidar, Emilio Carranza, Eliseo Martín del Campo, Guillermo Monroy, Manuel Solís, Julián Nava Salinas, Francisco Espejel, Alberto Vieytez, Ricardo Díaz Gonzáles and Luís Rojas, among others.\n\nFor his valuable participation against the Adolfo de la Huerta coup, General Lázaro Cardenas, who was present at his aerial attacks, promoted Luis Farell to the degree of Captain because of “special merits during battle”.\n\nPredicting more insurrections, on January 11, 1925 Farell was assigned to take a flight instructor course and train new pilots.\n\nDuring 1926 and 1927, Mexico found itself immersed in a wave of violent territorial, religious and military armed rebellions, which required the Mexican Air Force to quickly deploy its forces and provide air support wherever the federal army requested them.\n\nWhen President Plutarco Elías Calles pushed for the creation of the ‘Mexican Apostolic Catholic Church’, independent of Rome, a conflict untied that, would unleash a widespread religious war known as the Cristero War. Luis Farell served in multiple missions in this war from 1926 to 1929 while flying combat missions mostly in the states of Jalisco, Guanajuato and Michoacán.\n\nDuring this long conflict, Farell flew alongside his friends Alfonso Cruz Rivera, Roberto Fierro and other airmen.\n\nBetween 1926 and 1927 and while under the command of brigadier General Antonio Rios Zertuche, Major Roberto Fierro and Colonel Samuel Carlos Rojas, Luis Farell completed several missions against the Yaqui Indian rebels in the state of Sonora. Along with world-famous pilot Emilio Carranza, Farell flew several air-to-ground attacks over the Bacatete mountains of Sonora. It was during one of these missions that Emilio Carranza crashed and required of face reconstruction. During this campaign, Farell flew the airplanes de Havilland DH-4B # 2, 5, the Avro 504 # 59, 61, 65, 77, the Douglas O-2C # 1, 3 and the \"Lincoln\" biplane # 5.\nSeveral years after this campaign, Farell expressed to his family the moral difficulties of having battled against these indigenous people, whom demanded by the force that previous territorial treaties were implemented.\n\nIn May 1927, while General Obregón seemed keen to impose the presidency for second time to General Calles, Arnulfo R. Gómez launched an armed rebellion against both Obregón and Calles, as reelection has always been unconstitutional in Mexico. His command posts were located in the cities of Puebla and Veracruz, where he brought about 2000 very well armed federal deserters.\n\nOnce the Mexican Air Force was revamped, Farell was assigned a squadron and, from October 6–11 he flew 7 consecutive missions in Veracruz, helping the army defeat Arnulfo Gomez's forces. Wasting no time, Farell’s squadron was assigned to return west and renew attacks against the Cristeros in the states of Jalisco, Guanajuato and Michoacán, as the Cristeros' numbers had increased to an estimated 15,000.\n\nWhile Farell was flight-testing a new Mexican aircraft called \"Baja California-1\" on March 3 of 1929 a serious military coup took place, led by General José Gonzalo Escobar and heeded by various Generals. In these days, the air force's remaining airplanes consisted of worn and shot Bristol F.2 Fighter, Bristol Boarhound, de Havilland DH-4B and Douglas O-2C, a force that was not suitable to defeat Escobar's power. In this context, the government of Mexico convinced the USA to promote the peace south of its border and quickly make available twelve new OU-2M Corsair with the 400 hp Wasp engine, nine Douglas O-2M, four \"Stearman C3B\" and six Waco 10. Only two weeks after making the request, the USA government agreed and Farell and other pilots travelled to Brownsville, Texas and New York City to pick up the new aircraft.\n\nIt is recorded that Luis Farell flew a total of 52 combat hours over the states of Nuevo León, Coahuila, Durango and Chihuahua, when he was wounded by a bullet. On March 19, 1929, while in company of Lieutenant Colonel Pablo Sidar, Roberto Fierro, Ismael Aduna, Luis Boyer, Arturo Jiménez Nieto, Antonio Cárdenas Rodríguez, Carlos Rovirosa, Rodolfo Torres Rico and Gustavo León, Luis Farell attacked enemy positions in Benavides, Coahuila and the following five days, from 20 - 25 of March, he bombed telegraph lines, bridges, locomotives and the railroad out of the city of Jiménez, Chihuahua in order to cut the enemy’s escape and communications. Finally, on March 25, 1929 Farell’s squadron attacked Escobar’s operation centers in the cities of Escalon and Jiménez, and while making a low altitude strafing run with a WACO aircraft, he was shot in both legs.\nThe battle for the city of Jiménez was immediately reported by telegram to the President by the Lieutenant Colonel Rodolfo Tostado Loaiza, a ‘Head of Presidential Guard’ monitoring the campaign:\n\nA detailed report was made the following day and it reveals that in fact, Luis Farell piloted the airplane and the artilleryman was Captain Ismael Aduna. Farell was able to return to his base and land safely. Once the bleeding was controlled, he was flown to the \"Hospital Francés\" in Mexico City, where Erasmo González Ancira, a military physician, reported that the projectile entered his left calf, fragmented 12 cm of the fibula bone and passed only 2 cm from the femoral artery of his right thigh.\n\nThree days after Farell was shot, Escobar was defeated by General Calles in Jiménez City, where he took about 6000 prisoners. This rebellion was quite serious, since a third of the officials and nearly 30,000 soldiers rebelled; In two months, more than 2000 men were killed.\n\nBecause of his actions in battle, on April 5 of 1929, Farell he was promoted to Major for having flown hundreds of missions and for having engaged the enemy in battle at least 50 times. In addition, the President appointed him to the Estado Mayor Presidencial, a prominent Presidential Guard staff.\n\nA few days after leaving the hospital, on June 21. 1929, Luis Farell got married to Miss Ana Samaniego Castillo, and on August 12, the President presented him with a Waco model 10 biplane.\n\nIn 1932, Farell served in the First and Second Air Regiments flying the Chance-Vought Corsair O2U-2M, Corsair O2U-4A, Douglas O-2M and the \"Bristol Fighters\". Then, Farell was appointed as Chief of the Civil Aviation Department and proceeded to head a committee to upgrade civil aviation policies and procedures.\n\nOn January 1, 1934, the newly elected President Lázaro Cárdenas again appointed him as 'Jefe del Estado Mayor Presidencial' and in November 1934, was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel of the Air Force.\nDuring 1935, he was in charge of the Military Aeronautics Department and in 1936, he was appointed as Director of the Military School of Aviation, a charge that he performed until October 1945.\n\nIn May 1938, the Governor of San Luis Potosi, General Saturnino Cedillo, declared himself in rebellion against Cardenas’ government and, President Cárdenas travelled to San Luis Potosi to personally mount the campaign against the revolt.\n\nLuis Farell and an old friend, Coronel Alfredo Lezama Álvarez, organized a mixed fleet of 17 aircraft and flew several missions, engaging the enemy assertively when spotted. Cedillo quickly realized he had no chance in open fields against the air force and ran to the Huasteca hills, where his men dispersed abandoning him.\n\nDuring this confrontation, Farell flew the new V-99M Corsairs which had the capacity to carry bombs and were equipped with the 550 hp Pratt & Whitney R-1340-T1H-1 Wasp engine and two Colt 0.30 machine guns, one fixed at the front and one for the artilleryman. He also flew the Fleet 21-M biplanes.\nCedillo was shot by ground federal forces in 1939.\n\nDuring World War II, Mexico received a large number of aircraft to patrol the Gulf of Mexico coast against German submarines and Luis Farell coordinated the pilot training. Farell also formed part in the officials' selection to comprise the Mexican Escuadron 201 which saw action in Philippines during 1945.\n\nFarell was promoted to colonel in January 1939 and to brigadier general in February 1944. In 1946, he was assigned to direct the Military Personnel Department. In 1955, Farell was awarded the \"Cruz de Guerra\" medal along with fellow pilots Gustavo León González, Alfonso Cruz Rivera and David J. Borja Guajardo.\n\nIn 1959, Guatemala President Miguel Ydígoras Fuentes ordered his P-51 Mustangs to attack five Mexican fishing vessels in contested waters. Soon after that incident, Roberto Fierro and Luis Farell were appointed Chief and Sub-Chief of the Mexican Air Force, respectively. At this time, Mexico had no natural enemies and was dedicated to industrial growth, not to a military buildup. The conflict was resolved with diplomacy. Farell and Fierro concluded that the Mexican Air Force could not confront the powerful P-51 Mustang aircraft if required again, so they purchased a Canadian fleet of Vampire MK-3 jets made available by the USA, and Lockheed T-33 jets from the USA. Farell applied himself at establishing a system that would never leave Mexico in such vulnerable position again — a difficult task given the limited budget available.\n\nFarell retired from active service in August 1965 with the rank of division general. He died in Mexico City on July 17, 1977, at age of 74. He left behind his wife Ana and four sons: Jaime, Guillermo, Bernardo and Luis.\n\nFarell's military history file is available to be viewed through \"Sistema de Solicitudes de Información a la Administración Pública Federal\" (SISI) at .\n"}
{"id": "1443064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1443064", "title": "Madge Gill", "text": "Madge Gill\n\nMadge Gill (1882–1961), born Maude Ethel Eades, was an English outsider and visionary artist.\n\nBorn an illegitimate child in East Ham, Essex, (now Greater London), she spent much of her early years in seclusion and was placed in an orphanage at the age of 9, because her family couldn't stand the embarrassment. She was subsequently sent to Canada, at 14 years old, along with other orphans, to work on a farm, where she stayed until she was 18 before moving back to East Ham to live with her aunt, who introduced her to Spiritualism and astrology. During that time, she found work as a nurse at Whipps Cross Hospital, in Leytonstone. At the age of 25, she married her cousin, Thomas Edwin Gill, a stockbroker. Together they had three sons with their second, Reginald, dying of the Spanish flu. The following year she gave birth to a stillborn baby girl and almost died herself, contracting a serious illness that left her bedridden for several months and blind in her left eye.\n\nAfter recovering from her illness in 1920, Gill now thirty-eight, took a sudden and passionate interest in drawing, creating thousands of mediumistic works over the following 40 years, most done with ink in black and white. The works came in all sizes, from postcard-sized to huge sheets of fabric, some over long. She claimed to be guided by a spirit she called \"Myrninerest\" (my inner rest) and often signed her works in this name. However, she experimented with a wide variety of media including knitting, writing, weaving, and crochet work. Extremely prolific, she was capable of completing dozens of drawings in a single night. The figure of a young woman in intricate dress appeared thousands of times in her work, and is often thought to be a representation of herself or her lost daughter, and in general female subjects dominate her work. Her drawings are characterised by geometric chequered patterns and organic ornamentation, with the blank staring eyes of female faces and their flowing clothing interweaving into the surrounding complex patterns. In 1939, she exhibited one of her works at the Whitechapel Gallery. It was probably one of her largest works, measuring at 40 meters wide, covering an entire wall in the gallery. She continued to exhibit her work each year at the Whitechapel Gallery up until 1947.\n\nShe rarely exhibited her work and never sold any pieces out of fear of angering \"Myrninerest\". After her first son, Bob, died in 1958 she started drinking heavily and stopped drawing. Following her death in 1961, thousands of drawings were discovered in her home; the collection is owned by the London Borough of Newham and is in the care of the borough's Heritage and Archives Service. Her work has been exhibited internationally at venues including The Los Angeles County Museum of Art, USA (1992), Manor Park Museum, London (1999), The Whitechapel Gallery, London (2006), Slovak National Gallery, Bratislava (2007), Halle Saint Pierre (Musée d'Art Brut & Art Singulier), Paris (2008, 2014), Kunsthalle Schirn, Frankfurt a.M. (2010), Collection de l'Art Brut, Lausanne (2005, 2007).\n\nFrom October 5, 2013 to January 26, 2014, Gill's work was displayed at the Orleans house Gallery.\n\nA major trilogy of exhibitions, showing over 600 of Gill's work, many previously unseen, took place at The Nunnery Gallery in London. It opened in May 2012 and lasted until January 2013.\n\nSome of her drawings are on permanent view in The Viktor Wynd Museum of Curiosities, Fine Art & Natural History, whilst others are held by the London Borough of Newham Heritage Service.\n\nMadge Gill, like many outsider artists, has continually been gaining fame since her death in 1961. Her work is part of the permanent collection at the Collection de l'Art Brut in Lausanne, Switzerland, one of the central venues for the exhibition and support of outsider art.\n\nIn 2013, admirer David Tibet, himself an outsider artist, published an antiquarian-style book solely devoted to her work, the first of its kind.\n\nOn 8th March 2018 a blue plaque commemorating Gill was erected at 71 High Street, Walthamstow, where she was born in 1882 and lived until 1890.\n\n"}
{"id": "53370439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53370439", "title": "Maxine Lewis", "text": "Maxine Lewis\n\nMaxine Lewis is a producer, talent scout, and event planner for Harlem's Amateur Night (Showtime at the Apollo). She was Percy Sutton's spokeswoman.\n\nShe has worked for the Apollo theatre for decades as a producer for Showtime at the Apollo, and Apollo Kids at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. She has been an organizer for over 21 years for the 154/153 streets' Extended Family Reunion in Harlem, an event that brings residents from the neighborhood and residents that used to live in the area in July of each year.\nShe was born and raised in Harlem, New York City.\n\nMaxine Lewis is a Special Events Producer for Diamonds in the Rough Independent Entertainment from 1986 to till the present (31 years).\n\nPercy Sutton was the founder of Inner City Broadcasting Corporation. Which bought the Apollo Theatre in 1981. They rescued the Apollo Theatre from bankruptcy Court. The theatre was refurbished. She served as Percy Sutton's Executive Assistant for 19 years.\n\nIn 1992, Maxine organized and produced a memorial tribute for tap dancer Charles Coles known as Charles \"Honi\" Coles at the Apollo Theatre. She began working for Inner City Broadcasting Corporation in 1982. In 1984 she became the talent coordinator for amateur segments for Showtime at the Apollo and later segment producer for \"Apollo Kids\" segments for over 14 years. She traveled across the country looking for talent to be showcased. Some well known artists that she showcased were: Lyfe Jennings, Jermaine Paul, Ne-Yo, Jazmine Sullivan,\nLauren Hill, Canton Jones, Jessica Care Moore, and more. She has a featured segment on 90.3 WHCR FM radio for Street Corner Resources giving information and updates about resources and activities for adults.\nShe has been a community volunteer serving food for years for Thanksgiving and Christmas at the National Action Network in Harlem. She is a member of Perfecting Faith Church in Freeport, Long Island, where she utilizes her skills for community service in special events organizing and public relations work.\n\n2015 - Senior Citizen's Day by the New York State Office for the Aging for her community work honored for Community Service.\n\n2015 - Senator Díaz of the Bronx, New York City presents a Senior Citizen of the Year proclamation to Maxine Lewis \n\n2014 - Fannie Lou Hamer Honoree: for her work at the National Action Network National Crisis Manager (North Jersey Chapter)\n"}
{"id": "3895214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3895214", "title": "Michel Rolland", "text": "Michel Rolland\n\nMichel Rolland (born December 24, 1947 in Libourne, France) is a Bordeaux-based oenologist, with hundreds of clients across 13 countries and influencing wine style around the world. \"It is his consultancies outside France that have set him apart from all but a handful of his countrymen.\" It is frequently addressed that his signature style, which he helps wineries achieve, is fruit-heavy and oak-influenced, a preference shared by influential critic Robert Parker.\n\nRolland owns several properties in Bordeaux, including Château Bertineau Saint-Vincent in Lalande de Pomerol, Château Rolland-Maillet in Saint-Émilion, Château Fontenil in Fronsac, and Château La Grande Clotte in Lussac-Saint-Émilion as well as joint venture partnerships with Bonne Nouvelle in South Africa, Val de Flores in Argentina, Rolland Galarreta in Spain and Yacochuya (Salta) and Clos de los Siete in Argentina. \n\nBorn into a wine making family, Rolland grew up on the family's estate Château Le Bon Pasteur in Pomerol. After high school, Rolland enrolled at Tour Blanche Viticultural and Oenology school in Bordeaux with his father's encouragement. Excelling in his studies, he was one of five student chosen by director Jean-Pierre Navarre to evaluate the program's quality against that of the prestigious Bordeaux Oenology Institute. Rolland later enrolled in the Institute, where he met his wife and fellow oenologist, Dany Rolland, and graduated as part of the class of 1972.\n\nAt the Institute, Michel Rolland studied under the tutelage of renowned oenologists Pierre Sudraud, Pascal Ribéreau-Gayon, Jean Ribéreau-Gayon, and Émile Peynaud. Rolland has said these men were a great influence upon him and considers them the \"Fathers of Modern Oenology.\"\n\nIn 1973, Rolland and his wife bought into an oenology lab on the Right Bank of Bordeaux in the town of Libourne. They took over full control of the lab in 1976 and expanded it to include tasting rooms. By 2006 the Rolland's lab employed 8 full-time technicians, analyzing samples from nearly 800 wine estates in France each year. Rolland's two daughters, Stéphanie & Marie, also work at the lab.\n\nMichel Rolland's first clients included the Bordeaux Châteaux Troplong Mondot, Angélus, and Beau-Séjour Bécot. An early setback was the loss of two Saint-Émilion first growths, Château Canon and Château La Gaffelière, due to conflict in style with the owners and Rolland. According to Rolland, the loss \"calmed him down\" and brought him out of an awkward stage in his early career. Twenty years later, the two chateaux returned to be part of the more than 100 wineries who employ Michel Rolland as their consultant.\n\nIn his book \"Noble Rot: A Bordeaux Wine Revolution\", William Echikson writes that before Michel Rolland became consultant to Château Lascombes, it \"produced about 500,000 bottles of mediocre wine, about half of which was sold not as Lascombes itself, but as the inferior Chevalier de Lascombes.\" Today, Echikson contends, that even the Chevalier (the second wine of the estate) is better than the old full-fledged Lascombes.\n\nRolland features prominently in the critical 2004 documentary \"Mondovino\" by Jonathan Nossiter as an agent of wine globalization. In \"Mondovino\", Rolland is seen on several occasions advising his clients to microoxygenate their wines, including a scene at Château Le Gay in Bordeaux. Since the film, Rolland has said that he is \"not a fan of microoxygenation. The film suggests I am. Some of my clients inquire about it. It can help in special conditions — if the tannins are fierce or hard, micro-oxygenation can make them softer and rounder. In certain countries with certain terroir, like Chile or Argentina, I may use it.\" James Suckling, formerly of \"Wine Spectator\", notes in an article about Rolland that \"He is not a proponent of micro-oxidation in wine-making as some suggest, and never has been\".\n\nMichel Rolland is also a wine making consultant for the Amphorae Winery in Israel (marketed as Makura in the United States) and has started signing his name to their premium Makura series. He visits Amphorae and their vineyards once a year and has his assistants throughout the year help implement his practices adopted by Amphorae's wine making team at the winery and in their vineyards.\n\nRolland is among the wine personalities satirised next to Robert Parker in the 2010 \"bande dessinée\" comic book, \"\".\n\nFrom his consulting work and media presence, Michel Rolland has influenced many aspects of both the French and global wine industry. Among the prominent wine personalities that have been influenced by Rolland is the Rhone wine producer Jean-Luc Colombo.\n\nRolland's first projects outside of Bordeaux were in California. He now consults for many highly regarded Napa Valley wineries. These include:\n\n\nRolland holds decisive roles (such as owner, cellar master, oenologist, consultant) in a number of chateaux in Bordeaux. These include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28339159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28339159", "title": "Mochi (Cheyenne)", "text": "Mochi (Cheyenne)\n\nMochi (\"Buffalo Calf\"; c. 1841 – 1881) was a Southern Cheyenne woman of the \"Tse Tse Stus\" band and the wife of Chief Medicine Water. Mochi, then a 24-year-old, was a member of Black Kettle's camp and was present on the morning of November 29, 1864, when John Chivington and over 650 troops of the First Colorado Cavalry, Third Colorado Cavalry and a company of the 1st Regiment New Mexico Volunteer Cavalry attacked Black Kettle's winter camp at Sand Creek on the plains of eastern Colorado Territory (referred to as the Sand Creek Massacre).\n\nDuring the unprovoked attack, Mochi witnessed her mother being shot in the forehead and killed by a U.S. soldier who had entered their tipi. According to her account, he then attempted to rape her, prompting her to shoot and kill him with her grandfather's rifle. She then fled the camp with the other survivors trying to evade Chivington's men. After the massacre, she became a warrior and engaged in raiding and warfare for the next 11 years.\n\nMochi fought alongside her husband in numerous battles and raids and was the only Native American woman to be incarcerated by the United States Army as a prisoner of war.\n\nOn August 24, 1874, in present day Meade County, Kansas, Mochi, Medicine Water and the other members of their band were involved in the massacre of a surveying party led by Capt. Oliver Francis Short, who had fought in the Union Army during the American Civil War. Short, his 14-year-old son Truman, and four other members of the party were killed, with three of them being scalped.\n\nOn the morning of September 11, 1874, in Kansas, Chief Medicine Water and his band, including Mochi, attacked John German and his family as they were breaking camp. The family had camped along the stagecoach route which followed the Smoky Hill River while en route to Fort Wallace.\n\nGerman, his wife Liddia (Cox), son Stephen Wise, and daughters Rebecca Jane, and Joanna Cleveland were killed and scalped, with Mochi killing Liddia with a tomahawk blow to the skull. After plundering the camp and setting fire to the wagon, the band took German's four youngest daughters captive. They were Catherine Elizabeth, age seventeen; Sophia Louisa, twelve; Julia Arminda, seven; and Nancy Addie, five.\n\nJulia and Addie were traded to Grey Beard's band and were liberated after an attack on his camp on November 8, 1874, by a column led by Lieut. Frank Baldwin. Catherine and Sophia were released in March when Chief Stone Calf and most of the Southern Cheyenne surrendered at Fort Leavenworth, in Kansas.\n\nMochi and her husband Medicine Water were among 35 Cheyenne singled out for incarceration in the east. They were among a larger contingent of Plains tribe members to be sent east; in addition to the Cheyenne there were 27 Kiowa, 11 Comanche, and 1 Caddo. Two of the Cheyenne died en route, including Grey Beard, who was thwarted in a suicide attempt only to be shot and killed trying to escape.\n\nAfter being incarcerated at Fort Sill in Indian Territory, they were taken in eight prison wagons to Fort Leavenworth and then loaded in a special train for the journey to St. Augustine, Florida. In St. Augustine, Mochi and the others were incarcerated in an old coquina stone fort built by the Spanish in the 17th century. The fort, originally named the Castillo de San Marcos, was renamed Fort Marion by the Americans.\n\nMochi and the others would remain in captivity at the fort under the supervision of Captain Richard Pratt until 1878. Upon her release she returned to Oklahoma and died in 1881, in what is present day Clinton, Oklahoma.\n"}
{"id": "14604822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14604822", "title": "Natasha Ramsahai", "text": "Natasha Ramsahai\n\nNatasha Ramsahai (born in Scarborough, Ontario) is a Canadian Meteorologist who currently works as an on-air Meteorologist for 680 All News Radio and City\"News\" in Toronto. She earned an honours B.Sc in Environmental Science at University of Toronto Scarborough in 1998. She then went on to earn her masters degree in Earth and Space Science (Meteorology) from York University in 2001.\n\nPreviously, she worked at CBLT-TV's \"CBC News at Six\" from 2005 to 2007 and at CBC News Network until February 2011. She also worked as a behind-the-scenes operational forecaster for Canada's The Weather Network (1999-2001), and she provided on-air weather forecasts on CBC Radio One's morning show, Metro Morning (2002) in Toronto and at Toronto 1 (2003).\n\nNatasha was not only the first Meteorologist ever hired by the CBC, she was also the first female on-air Meteorologist in the city of Toronto starting in 2001.\n\nShe was born to Indo-Trinidadian_and_Tobagonian parents from Trinidad and Tobago.\n\n"}
{"id": "9661790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9661790", "title": "Notorious (2004 TV series)", "text": "Notorious (2004 TV series)\n\nNotorious is an American documentary television series that profiles the lives of infamous individuals in history. The series aired on The Biography Channel.\n\nMost episodes of \"Notorious\" are rehashes of the similar television shows \"American Justice\" and \"Mobsters\", both series that were originally broadcast on A&E, Biography Channel's sister channel. The only difference between the series is the introduction of the episodes and the lead-in after commercials.\n"}
{"id": "44541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44541", "title": "Phoolan Devi", "text": "Phoolan Devi\n\nPhoolan Devi (10 August 1963 – 25 July 2001), popularly known as \"Bandit Queen\", was an Indian bandit and later a Member of Parliament.\n\nBorn into a poor family in rural Uttar Pradesh, Phoolan endured poverty as a child and had an unsuccessful marriage before taking to a life of crime. Having developed major differences with her parents and her husband alike, the teenage Phoolan sought escape by running away and joining a gang of bandits. She was the only woman in that gang, and her relationship with one gang member, coupled with other minor factors, caused a gunfight between gang members. Phoolan's lover was killed in that gunfight. The victorious rival faction, who were Rajputs, took Phoolan to their village of Behmai, confined her in a room, and took turns to rape her repeatedly over several days. After escaping (or being let off), Phoolan rejoined the remnants of her dead lover's faction, took another lover from among those men, and continued with banditry. A few months later, her new gang descended upon the village of Behmai to exact revenge for what she had suffered. As many as twenty-two Rajput men belonging to that village were lined up in a row and shot dead by Phoolan's gang. Her victims were men who were known to have previously repeatedly gang raped her.\n\nHer act of revenge - the Behmai massacre was potrayed by the press as an act of righteous rebellion. The respectful sobriquet 'Devi' was conferred upon her by the media and public at this point.\n\nPhoolan evaded capture for two years after the Behmai massacre before she and her few surviving gang-members surrendered to the police in 1983. She was charged with 48 crimes, including multiple murders, plunder, arson and kidnapping for ransom. Phoolan spent the next eleven years in jail, as the various charges against her were tried in court. In 1994, the state government headed by Mulayam Singh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party summarily withdrew all charges against her, and Phoolan was released. She then stood for election to parliament as a candidate of the Samajwadi Party and was twice elected to the Lok Sabha as the member for Mirzapur. In 2001, she was shot dead at the gates of her official bungalow (allotted to her as MP) in New Delhi by former rival bandits whose kinsmen had been slaughtered at Behmai by her gang. The 1994 film \"Bandit Queen\" (made around the time of her release from jail) is loosely based on her life until that point.\n\nPhoolan was born into the Mallah (boatmen) caste, in the small village of Ghura Ka Purwa (also spelled Gorha ka Purwa) in Jalaun District, Uttar Pradesh. She was the fourth and youngest child of Moola and her husband Devi Din Mallah. Only she and one older sister survived to adulthood.\n\nPhoolan's family were very poor. The major asset owned by them was around one acre (0.4 hectare) of farmland with a large but very old Neem tree on it. When Phoolan was eleven years old, her paternal grandparents passed away in quick succession and her father's elder brother became the head of the family. His son, Maya Din Mallah, proposed to cut down the Neem tree which occupied a largish patch of their one-acre farmland. He wanted to do this because the Neem tree was old and not very productive, and he wished to cultivate that patch of land with more profitable crops. Phoolan's father acknowledged that there was some sense to this act, and agreed to it with mild protest. However, the teenage Phoolan was incensed. She felt that since her father had no sons (only two daughters), her uncle and cousin were asserting sole claim on the family's farmland inherited from the paternal grandfather. She confronted her much older cousin, taunted him publicly, called him a thief and repeatedly and, over a period of several weeks, showered abused and taunts upon him. One of the things attested about Phoolan by nearly every source is the fact that she had a very foul tongue, and routinely used abuses which are never uttered by women in any strata of Indian society. Phoolan also attacked her cousin physically when he berated her for abusing him and making accusations against him. She then gathered a few village girls and staged a \"Dharna\" (sit-in) on the land, and did not budge even when the family elders tried to use force to drag them home. She was eventually beaten unconscious with a brick.\n\nA few months after this incident, Phoolan's family arranged for her to marry a man named Puttilal Mallah, who lived several hundred miles away and was three times her age. She suffered continuous beatings and sexual abuse at the hands of her husband and after several attempts at running away was returned to her family in 'disgrace'.\n\nIn retailiation for the public and private humiliations heaped on him, and in order to teach her a lesson, Maya Din went to the local cops and accused Phoolan of stealing small items belonging to him, including a gold ring and a wrist-watch. The cops, who belonged to nearby villages, knew Phoolan and her family well, and they did what the family wanted. They kept Phoolan in jail for three days, physically abused her, and then let her off with a warning to behave better in future and live quietly without quarreling with her family or with others. Phoolan never forgave her cousin for this incident.\n\nAfter Phoolan was released from jail, her parents once again wanted to send her to her husband. They approached Phoolan's in-laws with the plea that she was now sixteen years of age and therefore old enough to begin cohabiting with her husband. They initially refused to take Phoolan back. However, they were themselves very poor, Phoolan's husband was now twenty-eight years old, and it would be very difficult to find another bride for him, especially with one wife still living. Divorce was simply out of the question in that society. After Phoolan's family offered generous gifts, they finally agreed to take her back. Phoolan's parents performed the ceremony of \"gauna\" (after which a married woman begins to cohabit with her husband), took Phoolan to her husband's house and left her there.\n\nWithin a few months, Phoolan, this time no longer a virgin, again returned to her parents. Shortly afterwards, her in-laws returned the gifts that Phoolan's parents had given them and sent word that under no circumstances would they accept Phoolan back again. This was in 1979 and Phoolan was only a few months past her sixteenth birthday. She later claimed in her autobiography that her husband was a man of \"very bad character.\" A wife leaving her husband, or being abandoned by her husband, is a serious taboo in rural India, and Phoolan was marked as a social outcast.\n\nThe region where Phoolan lived (Bundelkhand) is even today extremely poor, arid and devoid of industry; most of the able-bodied men migrate to large cities in search of manual work. During the period in question, industry was depressed even in the large cities, and daily life was a grim engagement with subsistence farming in a dry region with poor soil. It was not unusual for young men to seek escape from fruitless labour in the fields by running away to the nearby ravines (the main geographical feature of the region), forming groups of bandits, and plundering their more prosperous neighbours in the villages or passing townspeople on the highways.\n\nShortly after her final sojourn in her husband's house, and in the same year (1979), Phoolan fell in with one such gang of dacoits. How exactly this happened is unclear; some say that she was kidnapped by them because her \"spirited temperament,\" estrangement from her own family and outspoken rejection of her husband had attracted the attention of the bandits, while others say that she \"walked away from her life.\" In her autobiography, she merely says \"kismet ko yehi manzoor tha\" (\"it was the dictate of fate\") that she become part of a gang of bandits.\n\nWhether it was kidnapping or her own folly, Phoolan had immediate cause for regret. The gang leader, Babu Gujjar, who was of the Gujjar caste, wanted to have sex with her. He playfully courted her for a few days, but when she would not yield, he attempted to rape her one night. At this juncture, Phoolan was saved from rape by Vikram Mallah, the second-in-command of the gang, who belonged to Phoolan's own Mallah caste. In the altercation connected to the rape attempt, Vikram Mallah killed Babu Gujjar. The next morning, he assumed leadership of the gang.\n\nUndaunted by the fact that Vikram already had a wife and that she likewise had a husband, Phoolan and Vikram began cohabiting together. A few weeks later, the gang attacked the village where Phoolan's husband lived. Phoolan herself dragged him out of his house and stabbed him in front of the villagers. The gang left him lying almost dead by the road, with a note warning older men not to marry young girls. The man survived, but carried a scar running down his abdomen for the rest of his life. Due to this incident, and because he legally remained Phoolan's husband, the man was never able to marry again. He lived his life as a recluse because most people in the village began avoiding his company out of fear of the bandits.\n\nPhoolan learned how to use a rifle from Vikram, and participated in the gang's activities across Bundelkhand, which straddles the border between Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. These activities consisted of attacking and looting villages where upper-caste people lived, kidnapping relatively prosperous people for ransom, and committing occasional highway robberies which targeted flashy cars. Phoolan was the only woman member of that gang of dacoits. After every crime, she would visit a Durga temple and thank the Goddess for her protection. The gang's main hideouts were in the ravines of the Chambal River.\n\nSometime later, Shri Ram and Lalla Ram, two upper-caste Rajput brothers who had been caught by the police, were released from jail and came back to the gang. They were outraged to hear of the murder of Babu Gujjar, their former leader, and held Phoolan responsible for inciting the act. They berated her for being a divisive wanton, and she answered them back with her characteristic foulness of tongue. Shri Ram then held her by the cuff of the neck and slapped her hard, and a scuffle ensued. Phoolan seized this opportunity to allege that Shri Ram had touched her breasts and molested her during the scuffle. As leader of the gang, Vikram Mallah berated Shri Ram for attacking a woman and made him apologise to Phoolan. Shri Ram and his brother smarted under this humiliation, which was exacerbated by the fact that Phoolan and Vikram both belonged to the Mallah caste of boatmen, much lower even that the Gujjar caste of milkmen and peasants to which Babu Gujjar had belonged, and vastly lower than the land-owning Rajput caste to which they themselves belonged.\n\nWhenever the gang ransacked a village, Shri Ram and Lalla Ram would make it a point to beat and insult the Mallahs of that village. This displeased the Mallah members of the bandit gang, many of whom left the gang. On the other hand, around a dozen Rajputs joined the gang at the invitation of Shri Ram and Lalla Ram, and the balance of power gradually shifted in favour of the Rajput caste. Vikram Mallah then suggested that the gang be divided into two, one comprising mainly Rajputs and the other mainly Mallahs. Shri Ram and Lalla Ram refused this suggestion on the grounds that the gang had always included a mixture of castes during the days of Babu Gujjar and his predecessors, and there was no reason to change. Meanwhile, the other Mallahs were also not happy with Vikram Mallah. The fact that he alone had a woman cohabiting with him incited jealousy; some of the other Mallahs had bonds of kinship with Vikram's actual wife; and Phoolan's tongue did not endear her to anyone who interacted with her. A few days after the proposal for division had been floated, a quarrel ensued between Shri Ram and Vikram Mallah. Apparently, Shri Ram made a disdaining comment about Phoolan's morals, and Vikram responded with comments about Shri Ram's womenfolk. A gunfight ensued. Vikram and Phoolan, with not a single supporter, managed to escape in the dark. However, they were later tracked down and Vikram Mallah was shot dead. Phoolan was taken by the victorious faction to the Rajput-dominated village of Behmai, home to Shri Ram, Lalla Ram and several of the new Rajput recruits.\n\nAccording to legend, Vikram taught Phoolan, \"If you are going to kill, kill twenty, not just one. For if you kill twenty, your fame will spread; if you kill only one, they will hang you as a murderess.\"\n\nPhoolan was locked up in a room in one of the houses in Behmai village. She was beaten and raped by several men over a period of three days. She then managed to escape, after three weeks of captivity, with the help of a low-caste villager of Behmai and two Mallah members from Vikram's gang, including Man Singh Mallah.\n\nPhoolan and Man Singh soon became lovers and joint leaders of a gang composed solely of Mallahs. The gang carried out a series of violent raids and robberies across Bundelkhand, usually (but not always) targeting upper-caste people. Some say that Phoolan targeted only the upper-caste people and shared the loot with the lower-caste people, but the Indian authorities claim this is a myth; there is no evidence of Phoolan or her partners in crime sharing money with anyone, whether low-caste or otherwise.\n\nSeven months after her escape from Behmai, Phoolan returned to the village to seek revenge. On the evening of 14 February 1981, at a time when a wedding was in progress in the village, Phoolan and her gang marched into Behmai dressed as police officers. Phoolan demanded that her tormentors be produced, along with all the valuables in the village. However, most of the able-bodied men had gone to the city in search of manual work, and even after an exhaustive search, only two Rajput members of the former gang of bandits were found. These two men were not among those who had raped Phoolan; they were merely former members of Vikram Mallah's gang who belonged to the Rajput caste. Indeed, they were old comrades-in-arms of Phoolan, Vikram Mallah, Babulal Gujjar, Shri Ram and Lalla Ram.\n\nPhoolan is said to have been frustrated that no actual culprit had been apprehended. Nevertheless, she had by this time developed a deep hatred for the entire caste of Rajputs, a few of whose members had protested the killing of Babulal Gujjar, then challenged the leadership of his murderer Vikram Mallah, deposed and killed Vikram Mallah and raped Phoolan herself over a period of weeks. Phoolan therefore ordered her gang members to line up each and every man belonging to the Rajput caste that they could lay their hands on in Behmai village. This included Rajputs who belonged to other villages and towns who had come to attend the wedding in the village. The Rajput men were lined up and then, at Phoolan's order, they were shot dead by Phoolan and her gang members. Twenty-two Rajput men, were summarily killed. Later, Phoolan would try to absolve herself in court by claiming that she herself had not opened fire or killed a single person.\n\nThe Behmai massacre provoked outrage across the country. V. P. Singh, the then Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, resigned in the wake of the Behmai killings. A massive police manhunt was launched which however failed to locate Phoolan. It began to be said that the manhunt was not successful because Phoolan had the support of poor people in the region; stories on the Robin Hood model began circulating in the media. Phoolan began to be called the Bandit Queen, and she was glorified by sections of the Indian media as an intrepid and undaunted woman, the underdog struggling to survive in the world. The very flaws in her character and personality were interpreted as being manifestations of the suffering she had supposedly undergone at the hands of a feudal and patriarchal system. It was at this time that Phoolan, known until then by only one name, received the respectful sobriquet \"Devi\" from a reverent media and came to be known as \"Phoolan Devi.\"\n\nTwo years after the Behmai massacre, the police had still not captured Phoolan. The Indira Gandhi Government decided to negotiate a surrender. By this time, Phoolan was in poor health and most of her gang members were dead, some having died at the hands of the police, some others at the hands of rival gangs. In February 1983, she agreed to surrender to the authorities. However, she said that she didn't trust the Uttar Pradesh Police and insisted that she would only surrender to the Madhya Pradesh Police. She also insisted that she would lay down her arms only before the pictures of Mahatma Gandhi and the Hindu goddess Durga, not to the police. She laid down four further conditions:\n\nAn unarmed police chief met her at a \"rendezvous\" in the Chambal ravines. They traveled to Bhind in Madhya Pradesh, where she laid down her rifle before the portraits of Gandhi and Goddess Durga. The onlookers included a crowd of around 10,000 people and 300 policemen, apart from the then chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Arjun Singh. Other members of her gang also surrendered at the same time with her.\n\nPhoolan was charged with as many as \"forty-eight\" crimes, including thirty charges of dacoity (banditry) and kidnapping. Her trial was delayed for eleven years, during which time she remained in prison as an undertrial. During this period, she was operated on for ovarian cysts and underwent a hysterectomy. The doctor of the hospital reportedly joked that \"We don't want Phoolan Devi breeding more Phoolan Devis\". She was finally released on parole in 1994 after intercession by Vishambhar Prasad Nishad, the leader of the Nishadha community (another name for the \"Mallah\" community of boatmen and fisherfolk). The Government of Uttar Pradesh, led by Mulayam Singh Yadav, withdrew all cases against her. This move sent shock-waves across India and became a matter of public discussion and controversy.\n\nThis time around Phoolan got married to Ummed Singh. Ummed Singh fought 2004 and 2009 election on Indian National Congress's ticket. In 2014 he contested election on Bahujan Samaj Party's ticket. Phoolan's sister Munni Devi later accused him of being involved in Phoolan's murder.\n\nOn 15 february 1995, Phoolan Devi and her husband Ummed Singh embraced Buddhism at the famous Buddhist site Deekshabhoomi.\n\nIn 1995, one year after her release, Phoolan was invited by Dr. Ramadoss (founder of Pattali Makkal Katchi) to participate in the conference about alcohol prohibition and women Pornography. This was her first conference after her release which began her Indian politics. However, Phoolan stood for election to the [11th Lok Sabha] from the Mirzapur constituency in [Uttar Pradesh]. She contested the election as a member of the Samajwadi Party of Mulayam Singh Yadav, whose government had withdrawn all cases against her and summarily released her from prison. She won the election and served as an MP during the term of the 11th Lok Sabha (1996–98). She lost her seat in the 1998 election but was re-elected in the 1999 election and was the sitting member of parliament for Mirzapur when she was assassinated.\n\nAt 1:30 p.m. IST (08:30 UTC) on 25 July 2001, Devi was shot dead by three masked gunmen outside of her Delhi bungalow. She was hit nine times on the head, chest, shoulder and right arm. Her personal security guard, Balinder Singh, was shot in his right chest and right arm, who returned fire with a 9-mm service pistol when the gunmen fled the scene in a Maruti 800 car. They abandoned the car mid-way and boarded an auto rickshaw. The police recovered a Webley & Scott pistol and an improvised firearm, a IOF .32 Revolver from the spot, along with nine empty and 15 live rounds, from the car.\n\nDevi was taken to a nearby hospital but was declared dead. The prime suspect, Sher Singh Rana, later surrendered to the police. Rana allegedly claimed to have murdered Devi in revenge for the upper-caste men she gunned down in the Behmai massacre. In the latest ruling, on 14 August 2014, the court sentenced Rana to life in prison and a fine.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the murder, the police were accused of incompetence in their handling of the case. It was alleged that a party worker picked up revolvers that had been dumped by the killers and hid them. Three other people staying in her house were accused of knowing about the revolvers. The revolvers then disappeared before the police could conduct forensic tests on them.\n\nSher Singh Rana, the main accused, was convicted by Delhi court on August 8, 2014. However, the other ten accused were acquitted. Rana was convicted of the offences under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (common intention) under the IPC. The judge had fixed August 12, 2014, as the date for arguments and pronouncement of sentence. On August 14, 2014 Rana was sentenced to a life term by a Delhi.\n\nShekhar Kapur made a movie \"Bandit Queen\" (1994) about Phoolan Devi's life up to her 1983 surrender, based on Mala Sen's 1993 book \"India's Bandit Queen: The True Story of Phoolan Devi\". Although Phoolan Devi is a heroine in the film, she fiercely disputed its accuracy and fought to get it banned in India. She even threatened to immolate herself outside a theater if the film were not withdrawn. Eventually, she withdrew her objections after the producer Channel 4 paid her £40,000. The film brought her international recognition. Author-activist Arundhati Roy in her film review entitled, \"The Great Indian Rape Trick\", questioned the right to \"restage the rape of a living woman without her permission\", and charged Shekhar Kapur with exploiting Phoolan Devi and misrepresenting both her life and its meaning.\n\nIn 1985 another low budget Bengali movie Phoolan Devi (1985 film) was released loosely based on Phoolan's life. This film was directed by Ashok Roy and starred by Suresh Oberoi, Rita Bhaduri and Joy Banerjee.\n\nAlthough she was illiterate, Phoolan composed her autobiography entitled \"The Bandit Queen of India: An Indian Woman's Amazing Journey From Peasant to International Legend\", with the help of international authors Marie-Therese Cuny and Paul Rambali.\n\n\nBooks on Phoolan Devi\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "8066438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8066438", "title": "Raymond Hamers", "text": "Raymond Hamers\n\nRaymond Hamers is a professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel (Brussels, Belgium). He discovered a special type of antibodies called single-domain antibodies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2677811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2677811", "title": "Richard Paul Evans", "text": "Richard Paul Evans\n\nRichard Paul Evans (born October 11, 1962) is an American author, best known for writing \"The Christmas Box\" and, more recently, the Michael Vey series.\n\nEvans graduated from Cottonwood High School in Murray City, Utah. He graduated with a B.A. degree from the University of Utah in 1984.\n\nWhile working as an advertising executive he wrote a Christmas story for his children. Unable to find a publisher or an agent, he self-published the work in 1993 as a paperback novella entitled \"The Christmas Box\". He distributed it to bookstores in his community. The book became a local bestseller, prompting Evans to publish the book in this region.\n\nThe next year \"The Christmas Box\" hit #2 on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list, inciting an auction for the publishing rights among the world's top publishing houses. Evans signed a publishing deal with Simon & Schuster, who paid him $4.2 million in an advance.\n\nReleased in hardcover in 1995, \"The Christmas Box\" became the first book to simultaneously reach the number-one position on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list for both paperback and hardcover editions. That same year, the book was made into a television movie of the same title, starring Richard Thomas and Maureen O'Hara.\n\nEvans has subsequently written 36 nationally best-selling books, including some for children, with conservative Christian themes and appealing to family values. His 1996 book \"Timepiece\" was made into a television movie featuring Naomi Watts, James Earl Jones, and Ellen Burstyn, as were \"The Locket\" (1998), which starred Vanessa Redgrave; \"A Perfect Day\" (2006), which starred Rob Lowe and Christopher Lloyd; \"The Mistletoe Promise\" (2016), which starred Jaime King and Luke Macfarlane; and \"The Mistletoe Inn\" (2017), which starred Alicia Witt and David Alpay.\n\nDuring the spring of 1997, Evans founded Christmas Box House International, an organization devoted to building shelters and providing services for abused and neglected children. As of 2017, more than 35,000 children have been served by Christmas Box House facilities.\n\nEvans, a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, lives in Salt Lake City, Utah with his wife Keri, five children, and one grandson.\n\nHe founded the group \"Tribe of Kyngs\" to combat feelings of isolation among men and the belief that \"masculinity is no longer valued\". Initiation into the group includes a coronation ceremony.\n\nIn 2018, it was revealed that Evans would not be invited back to FanX, a Salt Lake comic convention, due to allegations that he had kissed a female author on the cheek.\n\nIn an interview that aired Tuesday on KUTV-Channel 2 in Salt Lake City, Evans criticized some in the #metoo movement, stating, \"These trends tend to swing too far the other way where innocent men are being caught up in, and we’re in a culture where it’s a war on men.” He told reporter Chris Jones that “there is a war on men\" and that men are under attack, oppressed by a changing culture, victims of an extremist feminist agenda, adding, \"There are books written that say, again, that men should be taken out, that they should account for no more than 10 percent of the population. Well, that makes men feel like Jews in Nazi Germany.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25358129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25358129", "title": "Roberto V. Pesqueira", "text": "Roberto V. Pesqueira\n\nRoberto V. Pesqueira Morales (1882 – 1966) was a Mexican politician who was elected twice to the Chamber of Deputies and was commissioned by President Venustiano Carranza to work as a confidential agent in the United States and secure diplomatic recognition to his regime.\n\nPesqueira was born in Arizpe, Sonora. His older brother, Ignacio, went on to serve as Governor of Sonora. Roberto joined Francisco I. Madero's Anti-Reelectionist Party in 1910 and was elected federal deputy representing the first district of Sonora in 1913, but refused to serve in the Chamber of Deputies after the consummation of Victoriano Huerta's on 20 February 1913, and decided to join the revolutionary forces instead.\n\nHe was elected federal deputy once again in 1917 and acquired oil fields some years later. In February 1923 he wrote a letter to President Álvaro Obregón, alerting him of some irregularities detected in his foreign competitors; in particular, the Huasteca Oil Company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43233241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43233241", "title": "Ruy Barbosa Popolizio", "text": "Ruy Barbosa Popolizio\n\nRuy Barbosa Popolizio (December 2, 1919 – June 8, 2014) was a Chilean businessman, politician, and oenologist. Barbosa served as the Minister of Agriculture from September 26, 1963, until November 3, 1964, as well as the Minister of National Assets briefly from September to November 1963. He later became the dean of the University of Chile from 1968 until 1969.\n\nBarbosa Popolizio died in Santiago, Chile, on June 8, 2014, at the age of 94.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "42202812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42202812", "title": "Slimane Azem", "text": "Slimane Azem\n\nSlimane Azem (September 19, 1918 – January 31, 1983) was an Algerian singer and poet, born in Agouni Gueghrane (kabylie region),that composed hundreds of songs in more than 40 years of artistic life. A great connoisseur and admirer of the poet Si Mohand, Slimane Azem included in his songs different isefra (traditional poetry) by this author.\n\nSlimane Azem was born September 19, 1918 at Agouni Gueghrane, a small village located on the foothills of Djurdjura. Nothing predestined this son of a poor farmer to a musical career. A rather mediocre student, he had a passion for the La Fontaine's Fables that would later influence his writings and compositions. At the age of 11, he became a farm worker for a colonist in Staouéli, a small resort near Algiers (the very beach were the French army landed in 1830). In 1937, he landed at Longwy as part of the Service du travail obligatoire and found work in a steel mill operation before being mobilized during the \"Phoney War\" in Issoudun. In 1940, he was discharged and went to Paris where he was hired as an assistant electrician in the Paris Métro. In 1942, Slimane was in Paris. The capital fascinated him and yet the work was hard. He was accustomed to life in the village in the great outdoors, but was now confined in tunnels and underground eight hours a day in the metro. Two years later, he underwent deportation by German troops in the Rhineland and remained there until its liberation in 1945, by the Americans.\n\nHaving received death threats during the independence of Algeria, the singer was fled to France in 1962. He then became a legendary voice that Kabyles expatriates could only listen to on Radio Paris in his \"quart d'heure kabyle\" (fifteen minutes Kabyle daily) show. Azem was, in fact, banned from airing in his own country and his music circulated only clandestinely, his name could only be read in lowercase in brief, daily of his country. In 1970 he was awarded a gold disc along with the singer Noura, imposing it as one of the best French sales. At the same time he became member of the SACEM, the club of famous French stars. In Paris, he won a stewardship coffee in the 15th arrondissement. He took the opportunity to interpret there his first compositions. Noticed and encouraged by Mohamed El Kamel, former member of Bachtarzi ensemble (named after Mahieddine Bachtarzi), he persevered in singing. Slimane finally recorded his first album with the song \"A muh muh has\". For all those Kabyles dealing with homesickness, his records were highly sought after at Madame Sauviat, the only record store that sold at that time albums of Maghrebi and Oriental artists. This woman, of Auvergne origin, whose heirs now keep the shop on Boulevard de la Chapelle, presented Slimane to the record company Pathé-Marconi.\n\nDuring the '70s, he made comic duets with the famous and sang \"Algérie, mon beau pays\" (Algeria, my beautiful country) and \"Carte de Résidence\" (Residence Card) in French. Over the recordings, Slimane Azem conquered a wide community audience through his lyrics parables where he staged animals and arises as a singer politically engaged. Then his inspiration declined.\n\nHe would later write a song in tribute to the Berber Spring, \"Ɣef Teqbaylit yuli was\" (On Kabylia rises the day).\n\nHe never denied his peasant roots and spent much of his earnings in buying a farm in Moissac (Tarn-et-Garonne), where he spent six months a year cultivating his nostalgia in his fig and olive tree plantations. Slimane feared death in exile. It finally occurred a January 28, 1983 on his farm.\n\nSince 2008, the city of Moissac decided to honor the old Berber singer giving a town square that bears his name. In December 2013, the city of Paris decided to honor him too with a square in the 14th arrondissement. The plate was not visible however until 2014.\n\nHe was the brother of Ouali Azem, Member of Parliament from 1958 to 1962 under the French Fifth Republic.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52713375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52713375", "title": "Stanley B. Weaver", "text": "Stanley B. Weaver\n\nStanley B. Weaver (May 23, 1925 – November 11, 2003) was an American funeral director and politician.\n\nBorn in Harrisburg, Illinois, Weaver graduated from Urbana High School in Urbana, Illinois. He served in the United States Army Air Forces during World War II. He went to Michigan State University and University of Illinois. Weaver graduated from the Indiana College of Mortuary Science and was a funeral director in Urbana, Illinois. Weaver served as mayor of Urbana, Illinois from 1957 to 1969. He then served in the Illinois House of Representatives from 1969 to 1971 and was a Republican. From 1971 until 2003, Weaver served in the Illinois State Senate. Weaver died of cancer in Urbana, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "6080929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6080929", "title": "Sundari", "text": "Sundari\n\nSundari ( ) was a wandering ascetic. She is known as having been persuaded by her colleagues to help them denounce the Buddha due to their jealousy of his fame and honor. They instructed her to wander around Jetavana in close quarters to the Buddha and his disciples. She was later killed and her body was paraded in the streets. The evil ascetics falsely accused the Buddhist sangha for killing Sundari.\n\nAfter seven days, the public became aware that the sangha was not responsible for Sundari's death. The Buddha's innocence restored, he proclaimed the importance of honesty and patience in the face of slander, as well as the retribution one reaps for dishonesty.\n\n"}
{"id": "36814603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36814603", "title": "The Denial of the Historicity of Jesus in Past and Present", "text": "The Denial of the Historicity of Jesus in Past and Present\n\nDie Leugnung der Geschichtlichkeit Jesu in Vergangenheit und Gegenwart (English: The Denial of the Historicity of Jesus in Past and Present) was a 1926 book in German by Arthur Drews on Christ myth theory. \nThe book is a historical review of some 35 major deniers of Jesus historicity (radicals, mythicists) covering the period 1780 – 1926, and was meant to be Drews’s response to Albert Schweitzer's \"Quest of the Historical Jesus\" of 1906. Drews’s book was in fact presented in the guise of \"Quest of the non-Historicity of Jesus\", with its own historical review of the key Jesus deniers.\n\nAs Schweitzer erected himself as the champion of \"historicists\", Drews stood up in opposition as the champion of \n\"radicals\" and \"Jesus historicity deniers\". They were later labelled \"mythicists\" by the media, a name never used by Drews, but popularized in the early 1940s by the British writers A.D. Howell Smith, in his book \"Jesus Not A Myth\" (1942) and Archibald Robertson in his book \"Jesus: Myth or History?\" (1946). This new label was convenient in opposing \"mythicists\" versus \"historicists\". \n\nDrews gives the most prominent place to David Strauss, who reduced all the supernatural events of the New Testament stories to the role of myths; and to Bruno Bauer, the first professional scholar who \"denied the historicity of Jesus\", argued the \"priority of Mark\" as \"inventor of the Gospel story\" and the \"fiction of Jesus's existence\", rejected all of Paul's epistles as \"non genuine\", and emphasized the input of Greco-Roman ideas (especially the \"Stoicism\" of Seneca) in the New Testament documents. Both Strauss and Bauer were forced to abandon University life at a young age.\nAmong those Jesus deniers, Arthur Drews was especially influenced by the following thinkers: \n\nSpace is dedicated to the major advocates of the \"School of (Comparative) History of Religions\", flourishing in Germany (\"Die Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\") and the United Kingdom. German orientalist Peter Jensen, an expert on Semitic Languages and Babylonian literature, in \"Das Gilgamesch-Epos in der Weltliteratur\", (Part I, 1906 & Part II, 1928) [\"The Epic of Gilgamesh in World Literature\"], had analyzed the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", and found parallels in all later ANE myths, including the Hebrew Tanakh, Moses and Isaiah, thus impacting on the authenticity of the Christian Gospels and destroyed the unique character of the Jesus story. Alfred Jeremias (1864–1935), another expert in ANE languages and mythology, had published \"The Epic of Gilgamesh\" (1891) and advocated \"panbabylonism\", the thesis that sees the Ancient Hebrew stories directly derived from Babylonian mythology. The English summary (by Klaus Schilling) of \"The Denial of the Historicity of Jesus\" describes Jeremias's views:\n[Jeremias] only admitted Chaldean origin of early Judaism, but couldn't deny that there was some sort of impact from old Babylon in the New Testament. The Babylonian-Chaldean worldview is about the most astralmythical and astrological worldview found in history of cultures; the terms 'astrological' and 'Chaldean' were used synonymously by many authors since Hellenic times. In this sense Jeremias continued the works of Volney and Dupuis... The Christian calendar tells the story of the astral redeemer king, the 12 apostles are akin to the zodiac, and the 4 Gospels are akin to the cardinal points of the world.\n\nDrews was closely connected to what was called the school of Dutch “Radical Criticism”, which not only denied the existence of Jesus Christ, the authenticity of Paul's epistles, and also the very historicity of Paul. Drews reviews the inputs from the key scholars:\n\nThe attention to Drews and the Dutch School was revived by Hermann Detering and his Website, \"Radikalkritik\" in German and English.\n\nDrews gives credit to the two French pioneers, Charles-François Dupuis and Comte de Volney, both imbued with an astral-mythical interpretation of Jesus and Christianity.\n\nDrews does mention the broad impact of Ernest Renan (1823–1892), with his immensely popular Romanticist \"Vie de Jesus\" (1863, \"Life of Jesus\"), in implanting serious doubts among the bourgeoisie. But Drews is less impressed by Renan as a scholar than Schweitzer was, who had devoted a full chapter (13) to the French \"theology historian\", a space equal to that devoted to Bauer.\n\nThe prevailing term then was \"radicalism\", and Drews lends special attention to the adherents of Radicalism in Germany, the US, France, and England, and to a few other scholars, now less well remembered, but who made an insightful contribution in their time. Drews includes in his survey:\n\n\nWith the Dane Georg Brandes, Drews ends his review in 1925, establishing the first historical list of the key radical/mythicists. This list has been brought up to date and expanded by later writers.\n\nIn his final conclusions (\"English summary\" of the book, by Klaus Schilling), Drews emphasized that deniers (radicals, mythicists) \"do not form a movement\" (a so-called \"denial party\") trying to “unite” them against an entity called “Christianity”:\nDrews describes the social consequences of a denial of historicity, and explains why so many theologians and secular researchers stick to historicity, though \"the ahistoricity of Jesus is scientifically as sure as\" that of Romulus and Remus, or the seven legendary kings of Rome. The consequences are generally underestimated.It is quite understandable that the \"denial party\" is unique only in that point [of the \"non-historicity\", \"Ahistorizität\"], and otherwise offers \"a variety of diverging explanations\" [each denier has his own independent hypothesis]. The church has done everything for 2000 years to \"obscure and hide away the origins of Christianity\", so that there’s no way to get any further without speculative hypotheses.\nIt is obvious that no serious researcher could claim the historicity of Jesus, unless it were the savior of the dominating religion of the prevailing culture. So there’s \"nothing but Christian prejudice\" which keeps even secular researchers from admitting non-historicity... [emphasis added]\n"}
{"id": "25761895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25761895", "title": "Thomas Fearn", "text": "Thomas Fearn\n\nThomas Fearn (November 15, 1789 – January 16, 1863) was an American politician who served as a Deputy from Alabama to the Provisional Congress of the Confederate States from February until April 1861, when he resigned from office.\n\nThomas Fearn was born on November 15, 1789, in Pittsylvania County, Virginia, and later moved to Alabama. He served in the War of 1812 and as a member of the Alabama state legislature. Before the American Civil War, he was a practicing physician in Hunstville, Alabama, and served as a physician under Andrew Jackson. He was the father-in-law of William Taylor Sullivan Barry. In 1861, he was a Deputy to the Provisional Congress of the Confederate States, representing the state of Alabama.\n\n"}
{"id": "10927893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10927893", "title": "Tun Sri Lanang", "text": "Tun Sri Lanang\n\nTun Muhammad bin Tun Ahmad, better known as Tun Sri Lanang, was the Bendahara (Grand Vizier) of the royal Court of Johor Sultanate who lived between the 16th and 17th centuries. He served under two Sultans of Johor, namely; Sultan Ali Jalla Abdul Jalil Shah II (1570–1597) and Sultan Alauddin Riayat Shah III (1597–1615) and also advisers to 3 Acheh sultans namely; Sultan Iskandar Muda (until 1636), Sultan Iskandar Thani (1636–1641) and Sultana Tajul Alam Safiatuddin Shah (1641–1675). He had two honorific titles throughout his lifetime; as the Bendahara of Johor, \"Bendahara Paduka Raja Tun Mohamad\", while he was given the title of \"Orang Kaya Dato' Bendahara Seri Paduka Tun Seberang\" after settling in Aceh.\n\nTun Sri Lanang was born in 1565 in Seluyut, Johore, and was descended from Tun Tahir, a brother of Bendahara Tun Mutahir of Malacca. There are not many records about his period as Bendehara in Johore. However, during the rule of Sultan Alauddin Riayat Shah III, he shouldered a heavier burden on the affairs of the state as the Sultan is a weak ruler. He shared the responsibility with the Sultan's brother Raja Abdullah (later to become Sultan Abdullah Maayah Shah which reigns between 1615 to 1623).\n\nDuring the period the Dutch were attacking the Portuguese for the port of Malacca. The Dutch signed a friendship treaty with the Johore Sultanate (in 1606) with Tun Sri Lanang as a representative. Tun Sri Lanang refused the Dutch request of helping the Dutch to blockade the port of Malacca preferring the Dutch do it themselves.\n\nIn 1612, at the request of Raja Abdullah to pen the \"Malay Annals\" to ensure \" ... all the adat, the rules and the ceremonies of the Malay Sultans and Rajas to be heard by our descendants and is made known all utterances so that it may benefit them\". At this time, under the orders of Sultan Alauddin Riaayat Shah, Tun Sri Lanang oversaw the editorial and compilation process of the Malay Annals, better known as \"Sejarah Melayu\" in Malay.\n\nIn 1613, Acheh attacked Johor and in the battle of Batu Sawar. Johore was defeated and the Royal Family and Tun Sri Lanang was captured and brought to Aceh. The Bendaharaship was continued by his descendants. His notable descendants include Bendehara Tun Habib Abdul Majid and the Raja Temenggung of Muar.\n\nAfter a brief \"reeducation\" in Aceh, the Johor Royal Family was returned to Johor. Tun Sri Lanang elected to stay in Acheh. He became advisor to the third Sultan of Acheh and was bestowed an Acheh honorific title. He was awarded a personal fief in Samalanga, Aceh in 1613 and held the title \"Uleebalang of Samalanga\". He died in 1659 in Samalanga.\n\nSome of Tun Sri Lanang's descendants ruled as the Uleebalang of Samalanga until 1949, when Indonesia was formed in the same year. Many of his descendants were fervent nationalists including the female warrior Pocut Meuligo, Teuku Muhammad Daud, Teuku Abdul Hamid Azwar and Teuku Hamzah Bendehara. Some of his descendants carry the \"Bedahara\" suffix to their names indicating their ancestry.\n\nHis legacy is not only the rewriting and compiling of the magnum opus \"Sejarah Melayu\" but also includes the strongly Islamic flavor of Samalanga. Samalanga is also known as \"Kota Santri\", or \"Town of Medrassas\" is the centre of Islamic propagation in Acheh until today. Samalanga was also among the last town to fall to the Dutch during the time of the last Sultan of Acheh, Sultan Muhammad Daud Shah and also one of his strongholds.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1158529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1158529", "title": "Willis Harman", "text": "Willis Harman\n\nWillis W. Harman (August 16, 1918 – January 30, 1997) was an American engineer, futurist, and author associated with the human potential movement. He was convinced that late industrial civilization faced a period of major cultural crisis which called for a profound transformation of human consciousness. Over a career lasting some four decades, he worked to raise public awareness on the subject through his writings and to foster relevant research through the nonprofit research institute SRI International, the Institute of Noetic Sciences (IONS), and the World Business Academy (WBA). He served as president of IONS for two decades, and he was a cofounder of the WBA. His many books include volumes coauthored with the futurist Howard Rheingold, who put forward similar views, and the mythologist Joseph Campbell.\n\nWillis W. Harman was born in Seattle, Washington on August 16, 1918. His father was a hydroelectric engineer and his mother was a music teacher. He attended the Western Washington College of Education before moving on to graduate from the University of Washington in 1939 with a B.S. degree in electrical engineering. \n\nAfter graduation, he worked for General Electric and then joined the Navy as an electrical officer. He was stationed on the USS Maryland (BB-46) but was ashore at his home near Pearl Harbor during the 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor. After the end of World War II, Harman received his M.S. in physics and Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Stanford University.\n\nHarman taught for several years at the University of Florida before joining the Stanford faculty in 1952 to teach physics and electrical engineering.\nIn 1954, he attended a summer seminar on ethics, meditation, and the spiritual life that had a transformative effect on both his thinking and his career. He later said of this experience that it \"opened up vast areas I didn't even know were there. It completely changed my concept of what is important in education, and in time led to various activities in the field of humanistic psychology.\" \n\nHarman became convinced that Western culture was facing a spiritual and moral crisis stemming from the ravages of industrialism and its economic logic, which he came to call the \"World Macroproblem\". As Harman saw it, \"If you look at the assumptions underlying our economic system – especially the ones regarding the prerogatives of ownership – and then you look at the goals we humans have about how we want to live our lives, there is no compatibility. The assumptions can never lead to the goals.\" In his view, this crisis that called for development of both an \"ecological ethic\" and a \"self-realization ethic\". In short, society needed to transform its institutions to support the personal development of individual human beings within an environment of limited resources. Because Harman considered humans an integral part of the natural world, he saw individual self-realization and environmental sustainability as synergistic rather than contradictory paths forward. Harman also recognized the large (and often problematic) role that unconscious processes play in human culture and foresaw that work was needed to better understand how such processes might be harnessed in positive ways.\n\nHarman incorporated his new perspective in a popular Stanford graduate seminar called \"The Human Potential\" that covered topics ranging from meditation to psychoactive drugs to parapsychology.\n\nIn 1980, he was appointed a regent of the University of California by then governor Jerry Brown. He served as a regent for ten years.\n\nHarman eventually left Stanford to become a senior social scientist at SRI International and the director of SRI's Educational Policy Research Center. There he initiated a research program focused on solving the problems posed by uncontrolled industrial development. This work led to his 1976 book \"An Incomplete Guide to the Future\", with its vision of a transindustrial society. Unlike many futurists, Harman did not believe that the future was predictable simply by projecting current trends; consequently, a hallmark of his work is his ability to conceive ideas about the future that don't clearly stem from present tendencies. \n\nAt SRI, Harman recruited Alfred Matthew Hubbard to the Alternative Futures Project, one of the goals of which was to introduce business and thought leaders to LSD. \n\nHarman was invited by astronaut Edgar Mitchell to join the Institute of Noetic Sciences (IONS) in Sausalito in 1973, the year it was founded. He went on to serve as its president from 1978 until his death in 1997. He described IONS' mission as bringing science and religion back together, though in ways that would require fundamental changes in both. \n\nHarman was in charge of \"Global Mind Change\", then one of four major IONS programs. Besides supporting Harman's 1988 book of the same title, it sponsored citizen tours of the USSR and other activities.\n\nIn 1987, Harman cofounded the World Business Academy with Rinaldo Brutoco and other businesspeople. The WBA grew out of his conviction that business would play a critical role in the period of profound social transformation that Harman foresaw. Its goal was to foster smoother change by helping business leaders assume new roles of social responsibility.\n\nIn 1941, Harman married Charlene Reamer, who survived him. They had three daughters (Billie, Mary, and Susan) and a son, Dean.\n\nHarman died of brain cancer.\n\n\n\n"}
