{"id": "48356202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48356202", "title": "Al Falah University", "text": "Al Falah University\n\nAl Falah University or AFU, (Arabic: جامعة الفلاح) in the heart of the Emirate of Dubai, United Arab Emirates, determined to become one of the nation's leading institutions of Higher Education, currently offers accredited undergraduate and postgraduate degree programs. Established in 2015, AFU has three Colleges: College of Business Administration, College of Law and College of Mass Communication. In its commitment to constantly improve the curriculum, AFU constantly surveys the market needs for professionals in various disciplines to amend the programs offered by the institution.\n\nApproved and licensed by the UAE Ministry of Education, Al Falah University’s College of Business Administration offers four majors at undergraduate level and four majors at postgraduate level. College of Mass Communication offers three majors at undergraduate level and College of Law offers one major at undergraduate level.\n\n"}
{"id": "4880236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4880236", "title": "Alternatives", "text": "Alternatives\n\nFounded in 1994, Alternatives, Action and Communication Network for International Development, is a non-governmental, international solidarity organization based in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nAlternatives works to promote justice and equality amongst individuals and communities worldwide. Active in over 35 countries, Alternatives supports local, community-based initiatives working towards the greater economic, social, and political rights of people and communities affected by poverty, discrimination, exploitation, and violence.\n\nThe organization publishes the \"Le Journal des Alternatives\" newsletter, a publication inserted every three months in Montreal's French paper \"Le Voir\". Alternatives also publishes the Alternatives International Journal, a monthly publication in English distributed electronically.\n\nAlternatives Montreal is the headquarters of an International Federation consisting of nine NGOs spread across the world. Alternative-Niger, Alternatives Asia (New Delhi), Alternative Information Center (Jerusalem), Forum Macrocain des Alternatives Sud, , Institut Alternatives Terrazul, Khanya College, and Teacher Creativity Center.\n\nAlternatives knows that, through the development of sustainable societies, another world is possible. This belief is grounded in the engagement, experience, and values of Alternatives' members and the social movements to which they belong.\n\n• In this world, women, men and children will live in dignity and respect, and will equitably share the power and resources they need to live and thrive.\n\n• In this world, the diversity of peoples and persons will be respected, as will the human, civil, economic, social, and cultural rights of all of its inhabitants.\n\n• In this world, solidarity, cooperation, respect for the environment, participatory democracy, and peace will be the pillars that hold it aloft.\n\n• In this world, founded upon sustainable, just, and democratic social and economic development, construction has already begun at a local, national, and global level.\n\nAlternatives' mission statement (2009) reads: \"Strengthened by our vision and national and international experience, Alternatives is an organization that works for solidarity, justice, and equity the world over. Alternatives' aim is to help the networking, building, and promoting of innovative initiatives in popular and social movements that are fighting for economic, social, political, cultural and environmental rights.\"\n\nThe organization says that it wants to \"strengthen citizen action and reinforce the contribution of social movements in the construction of sustainable societies.\"\n\nAlternatives is present in Latin America, Africa, Europe and the Middle East, as well as Central, South and Southeast Asia.\n\nAlternatives Montreal is the headquarters of a federation consisting of nine NGOs spread across the world. Alternative-Niger, Alternatives Asia (New Delhi), Alternative Information Center (Jerusalem), Forum Macrocain des Alternatives Sud, , Institut Alternatives Terrazul, Khanya College, and Teacher Creativity Center.\n\nIn each of these regions, the organization works in direct partnership with groups of women and men who are struggling for progress, respect and justice; as well as the peace and sustainable development of their community, their environment, and their region.\n\nAlternatives supports network creation between groups so that they can benefit from their shared experiences and successes. Network formation is crucial since it allows for a deepened analysis and comprehension of the conflicts affecting their communities from the outside.\n\nAlternatives' and its partners' international solidarity projects are centered upon:\n\nAlternatives has been criticised as a political organisation supporting \"left-leaning causes\" through taxpayer funds, provided by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The Conservative government noted that the Alternatives' board includes \"supporters of Hezbollah and Hamas, such as Ali Mallah, vice-president of the Canadian Arab Federation.\" In addition, the government was reported to have been concerned regarding a 2008 \"education camp\" at Saint-Alphonse de Rodriguez in Quebec, was attended by \"500 motivated militants\" from Lebanon, Iraq, and Venezuela.\n\nAlternatives organizes overseas youth internship programs (such as Alternatives' NetCorps program), with the aim of developing a sense of solidarity and curiosity about other regions within youth. These internships emphasize understanding Third World realities and encouraging actions that will advance Alternatives' message of justice. Thanks to the internships, hundreds of young people have had the opportunity to participate in uncommon professional, cultural, and human experiences.\n\nAlternatives' Internships Program for 2009-2010 offers internships funded by the Québec Sans Frontières Program of Québec's Ministère des relations internationales.\n\nThe 2009-2010 Program offered 4 types of internships, under the following 3 themes:\nBolivia: Andale! An environmental voice for workers in Bolivia\n\nEcuador: Documentaries for the rights of youth and children in Ecuador\nMali: Roots around the world : urban agriculture in Bamako\nCameroon: When communities take the information highway : education in Yaoundé\n\nAlso, one position of the OCI program of Québec Sans Fronitères was available at Alternatives' offices in Montreal:\nAssistant to the Québec sans frontières (QSF) program : from Africa to the Americas\n\nAs part of the Youth Eco Internship program of YMCA of Canada, Alternatives offered 2 internship positions in Montreal:\nAssistant to the environment and urban agriculture program\nUrban agriculture mobilization and education officer\n\nAlternatives is an organization that produces and participates in many conferences, that publishes a newspaper and several Web sites, and that organizes educational and informational activities.\n\nThe Alternatives newspaper, a monthly compendium of international, national, and cultural news, has a distribution of 50,000, creating a window of alternative information on the world.\n\nWhether in Quebec, Canada, or the world, Alternatives works to raise public awareness of international and local policy debates and keep people informed of the links between them. Through its information and educational campaigns, reflecting our concerns with equality and justice for the South, Alternatives goes beyond the general public to reach policymakers. At the local level, our work involves environmental concerns, participatory democracy, out-reach and solidarity programs with immigrant communities and the promotion of pro-social policies.\n\nFor the last 16 years, Alternatives has been hosting the Journées Alternatives, a three-day retreat with Alternatives volunteers at Camp Papillon de St-Alphonse de Rodriguez. The retreat promotes reflection, engagement and education and has hundreds of participants yearly.\n\nSince 2003, Alternatives has funded and promoted promotes a rooftop gardens project, which has been exploring new ways to interact with urban man-made environment and the food cycle, for a greener city and healthier communities. The Rooftop Garden Project is a combination of hydroponic cultivation, permaculture, organic agriculture and collective gardening. It has inspired numerous initiatives in Québec, Canada and elsewhere in the world.\n\nThe new green community spaces have been designed as collective gardens, making participation possible in both public and private areas. This is founded in a desire to offer some simple food production models that are affordable, environmentally friendly and easy to adapt for use in both the South and the North, in a response to growing urbanization, pollution and growing urban poverty.\n\nIn 2008, the Rooftop Garden Project earned the highest environmental distinction in Quebec, the Phénix de l’environnement, and received the 2008 National Urban Design Award from the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada, the Canadian Institute of Planners (CIP) and the Canadian Society of Landscape Architects (CSLA) for its collaborative project with McGill University's Minimum Cost Housing Groupe and Santropol Roulant.\n\nAlternatives garners its financial support from a combination donors and members, as well as partner organizations working alongside Alternatives including major unions and church groups, International Organizations and governments.\n\nIndividuals across Canada contribute to Alternatives either as donors, members, or by subscribing to the newspaper.\n\nMany activists, journalists, and public figures from Quebec, Canada, and the world support Alternatives. Among these are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2385231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2385231", "title": "Austrian Students' Association", "text": "Austrian Students' Association\n\nThe Austrian Students' Union\" by statutory body (, ÖH\"') is the general students' representative body in Austria and serves as the students' government by federal law. The ÖH is member of European Students' Union.\n\nMembership in the ÖH is compulsory for every university student in Austria, including PhD candidates.\n\nThe statutes of the ÖH are regulated in a federal law, the \"Hochschülerinnen und Hochschülerschaftsgesetz\" (HSG).\n\nThe Students Union is structured into:\n\nBiannually, there are general elections. Turnout declined from about 70% in 1965 to 28.29% in the elections of 2007.\n\nThe HSG also includes regulations on the funding of the ÖH and its parts and the duties and rights of the students representatives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51626078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51626078", "title": "Bella Miranda", "text": "Bella Miranda\n\nBella Miranda is an American life coach to several famous people.\n\nMiranda was born in Texas, United States. Miranda is an advisor, executive business coach, executive strategic coach and life coach to a wide array of influential people in Fortune 100 companies, space industries, world leaders, CEOs, boards of directors and the entertainment industry. She is a captivating public speaker and author of her upcoming book based on her training philosophies and success.\n\nMiranda is currently working with certain commercial and private space companies to help the human population become an interplanetary species. Miranda is currently a sponsor for Association of Spaceflight Professionals, is on the patrons board and observer on the board of directors for the Commercial Spaceflight Federation. Miranda sits on the advisory board for Space For Humanity and is an executive advisor for Arch Mission. Miranda has been featured in \"Forbes\", \"Huffington Post\" and more for her teachings and successes.\n"}
{"id": "14056375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14056375", "title": "British Schools Museum", "text": "British Schools Museum\n\nThe British Schools Museum is an educational museum based in original Edwardian and Victorian school buildings in Hitchin in Hertfordshire, England. The museum complex is made up of Grade II listed school buildings housing infants, girls and boys schools with houses for Master and Mistress. It includes a monitorial schoolroom based on the educational theories of Joseph Lancaster for 300 boys, which opened in 1837, and a rare galleried classroom, dating from 1853.\n\nThe first school on the site was a schoolroom for 200 boys and 100 girls. It was founded in 1810 by local lawyer William Wilshere in a disused malthouse. This schoolroom was the first monitorial school for the sons of the poor in Hertfordshire. Teaching was based on Joseph Lancaster's methods of monitorial teaching. He developed a system in which large numbers of younger scholars could be taught by older scholars under the supervision of the master (for boys) or mistress (for girls). This method continued until the Revised Code of 1862 that brought in the Pupil Teacher method of teaching. The monitorial system was changed as it was the general consensus that having children teach other children, when they are not well educated themselves, proved to be problematic. The Pupil Teacher method involved an older scholar being given training and being paid to teach. The government hoped that this would increase the number of teachers in the future, using a system that could be described as an apprenticeship in teaching.\n\nThe school grew steadily and to such an extent that in 1837 a new schoolroom was built that could hold 300 boys. This was completed in 1838, and the original school in the converted malthouse then included an infants school as well as the girls'. HM Inspector of Schools Matthew Arnold visited the school in 1852 and reinforced the 1849 recommendation of inspector J D Morrell that the boys' school would benefit from a new classroom. A new Gallery classroom for 110 pupils was completed in February 1854.\nIn 1857, it was decided by the School's Board of Trustees to completely rebuild the Girls' and Infants' School. The new building was completed in 1858 together with adjoining houses for the Master and Mistress. When Matthew Arnold paid a return visit to the school in 1867 he reported that the new buildings were \"excellent\".\n\nBy 1904 additional classrooms were needed because of the growing number of pupils, and these were built in 1905, but by 1929 the school was too small (and quite worn out!) and the Boys' and Girls Schools transferred to the new Wilshere Dacre School in the town. The Infants School carried on in the original buildings, but because of the number of evacuees who were sent to Hitchin at the outbreak of World War II the school reverted to a Junior Mixed Infants School in 1940. This school continued on the site until 1969, when it closed, but the buildings were taken over by North Hertfordshire College as the Queen Street Activities Centre.\n\nThe buildings were listed as Grade II in 1975 for their importance as a site of historic school architecture. Mrs Jill Grey, a local educational historian, opened a small museum in one of the Edwardian classrooms. In July 1990 North Herts College left the site and Hertfordshire County Council put the buildings up for sale. The Hitchin British Schools Trust was formed and by 1994 were successful in purchasing the buildings. The Trust, mainly through the efforts of volunteers, has restored the schoolrooms to reflect their original condition, and work continues to improve them. The museum is visited by adults and groups of children from all over the country who are interested in seeing how their ancestors were taught.\n\nThe BBC filmed scenes from the 2010 children's television series \"Just William\" at Hitchin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36972738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36972738", "title": "Business School of Russian-Armenian Slavonic University (RAU)", "text": "Business School of Russian-Armenian Slavonic University (RAU)\n\nRussian-Armenian University Business School (RAU Business school) (; ), founded in 2008, is the graduate business school of Russian-Armenian (Slavonic) University in Yerevan, Armenia. The school offers a variety of educational programs like MBA programs and many Professional Courses.\n\nIn 2016 RAU Business school entered the international ranking list of Eduniversal of the best business schools in the world.\n\nRAU Business School was formally established as a separate unit in 2008. Business School is a dynamically evolving, licensed educational institution in the field of business education, was a member of the Central and East European Management Development Association (CEEMAN), which employ modern approach to the methodology and quality in business education.\nThe Business School offers academic postgraduate as well as professional business training and development programs. BS provides innovation-oriented business education and adheres to the best international standards in business education. The professors and teaching staff of the Business School are local and regional experts in their respective fields with both theoretical and practical knowledge and experience.\nDuring last three years Business School has established partner relations with several esteemed and world known institutions such as: University of Glasgow (Scotland); SBS Swiss Business School (Switzerland); Stockholm School of Economy (Riga branch); ISET (Georgia); Central European University (Slovakia); International University (Vienna); and many others in Kazakhstan, Ukraine, and more than 40 biggest universities in Russia. \n\nBusiness School of the Russian-Armenian University entered the international ranking list of Best Business Schools among 1000 institutions in 154 countries according to the independent global ranking agency Eduniversal.\nThe 2016 rankings results were announced during the 9th International Convention held on November 28 - December 1 in Perth, Australia.\nRAU Business School was awarded 2 Palmes of Excellence out of the 5 leagues. The School mapped its way to success due to its strong regional influence and significant international ties.\n\n\nFormation and development of an effective system of business education in Armenia, which will be much more correspond to the local market needs and would be able to provide best professional trainings, retraining and qualification improvement of managerial staff.\n\nRAU Business School offers a variety of educational programs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4114583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4114583", "title": "Carl Bereiter", "text": "Carl Bereiter\n\nCarl Bereiter is an education researcher, professor emeritus at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, University of Toronto known for his research into knowledge building.\n\nHis areas of research are:\n\n\nCarl Bereiter is one of the pioneers of Computer supported collaborative learning (CSCL).\nIn collaboration with Marlene Scardamalia, he introduced and developed the theory of \"knowledge building\". He is one of the main researchers of Computer Supported Intentional Learning Environments (CSILE), the first networked system for collaborative learning. The second generation of product was renamed Knowledge Forum.\n\nBereiter is one of the founders and leading researchers of the Institute for Knowledge Innovation and Technology, (IKIT). His educational contributions, along with those of Ludwig Wittgenstein, Martin Heidegger, Jean Piaget, Lev Vygotsky, Michel Foucault, Howard Gardner, and others, are profiled in Fifty Modern Thinkers on Education.\n\nHe became well known for a 1966 proposal cowritten with Siegfried Engelmann on the persistent gap between inner city and middle class children in educational achievement that appeared in \"Teaching Disadvantaged Children in the Preschool\". This position came to be called the cultural deficit hypothesis. This provoked a response by William Labov encapsulated in a much reprinted paper called \"The logic of non-standard English.\" that argued that cultural and linguistic difference rather than deficit lay behind much of the gap. Bereiter has claimed that he was misread by his critics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "497231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497231", "title": "Carnegie library", "text": "Carnegie library\n\nA Carnegie library is a library built with money donated by Scottish businessman and philanthropist Andrew Carnegie. A total of 2,509 Carnegie libraries were built between 1883 and 1929, including some belonging to public and university library systems. 1,689 were built in the United States, 660 in the United Kingdom and Ireland, 125 in Canada, and others in Australia, South Africa, New Zealand, Serbia, Belgium, France, the Caribbean, Mauritius, Malaysia, and Fiji.\n\nAt first, Carnegie libraries were almost exclusively in places where he had a personal connection - namely his birthplace in Scotland and the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania area, his adopted home-town. Yet, beginning in the middle of 1899, Carnegie substantially increased funding to libraries outside these areas.\n\nIn later years few towns that requested a grant and agreed to his terms were refused. By the time the last grant was made in 1919, there were 3,500 libraries in the United States, nearly half of them built with construction grants paid by Carnegie.\nThe first of Carnegie's public libraries, Dunfermline Carnegie Library was in his birthplace, Dunfermline, Scotland. It was first commissioned or granted by Carnegie in 1880 to James Campbell Walker and would open in 1883. The locally quarried sandstone building displays a stylized sun with the carved motto \"Let there be light\" at the front entrance.\n\nThe first library in the United States to be commissioned by Carnegie was in 1886 in his adopted hometown of Allegheny, Pennsylvania (now the North Side of Pittsburgh). In 1890, it became the second of his libraries to open in the USA. The building also contained the first Carnegie Music Hall in the World.\n\nThe first Carnegie library to open in the United States was in Braddock, Pennsylvania, about 9 miles up the Monongahela river from Pittsburgh, and home to one of the Carnegie Steel Company's mills in 1889. It was the second Carnegie Library in the United States to be commissioned, 1887, and was the first of just four libraries that he fully endowed. An 1893 addition doubled the size of the building and included the third Carnegie Music Hall in the United States.\nInitially Carnegie limited his support to a few towns in which he had an interest. These would be in Scotland and the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania area. In America, 6 out of the first 7, 7 of the first 10, and 9 of the first 13 libraries he commissioned are all found in Southwestern Pennsylvania. Architectural critic Patricia Lowry wrote \"to this day, Carnegie's free-to-the-people libraries remain Pittsburgh's most significant cultural export, a gift that has shaped the minds and lives of millions.\"\n\nUntil 1898, only one library was commissioned in America outside Southwestern Pennsylvania—a library in Fairfield, Iowa, commissioned in 1892. As the first time that Carnegie had funded a library in which he had no personal ties, it helped initiate the funding model that would be used by Carnegie for thousands of additional libraries.\n\nBeginning in 1899, his foundation funded a dramatic increase in the number of libraries.\nThis coincided with the rise of women's clubs in the post-Civil War period, which were most responsible for organizing efforts to establish libraries, including long-term fundraising and lobbying within their communities to support operations and collections. They led the establishment of 75–80 percent of the libraries in communities across the country.\n\nCarnegie believed in giving to the \"industrious and ambitious; not those who need everything done for them, but those who, being most anxious and able to help themselves, deserve and will be benefited by help from others.\" \nUnder segregation black people were generally denied access to public libraries in the Southern United States. Rather than insisting on his libraries being racially integrated, Carnegie funded separate libraries for African Americans. For example, in Houston he funded a separate Colored Carnegie Library. The Carnegie Library in Savannah, Georgia, opened in 1914 to serve black residents, who had been excluded from the public library. The privately organized Colored Library Association of Savannah had raised money and collected books to establish a small Library for Colored\nCitizens. Having demonstrated their willingness to support a library, the group then petitioned for and received funds from Carnegie. Future U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas wrote in his memoirs that he frequently used it as a boy, before the library system was desegregated.\n\nMost of the library buildings were unique, constructed in a number of styles, including Beaux-Arts, Italian Renaissance, Baroque, Classical Revival, and Spanish Colonial. Scottish Baronial was one of the styles used in Carnegie's native Scotland. Each style was chosen by the community, although as the years went by James Bertram, Carnegie's secretary, became less tolerant of designs which were not to his taste. Edward Lippincott Tilton, a friend often recommended by Bertram, designed many of the buildings. The architecture was typically simple and formal, welcoming patrons to enter through a prominent doorway, nearly always accessed via a staircase. The entry staircase symbolized a person's elevation by learning. Similarly, outside virtually every library was a lamppost or lantern, meant as a symbol of enlightenment.\n\nCarnegie’s grants were very large for the era and his library philanthropy is one of the largest philanthropic activities, by value, in history. Small towns received grants of $10,000 that enabled them to build large libraries that immediately were among the most significant town amenities in hundreds of communities.\n\nBooks and libraries were important to Carnegie, beginning with his early childhood in Scotland and his teen years in Allegheny/Pittsburgh. There he listened to readings and discussions of books from the Tradesman's Subscription Library, which his father helped create. Later in Pennsylvania, while working for the local telegraph company in Pittsburgh, Carnegie borrowed books from the personal library of Colonel James Anderson, who opened his collection to his workers every Saturday. Anderson, like Carnegie, resided in Allegheny.\n\nIn his autobiography, Carnegie credited Anderson with providing an opportunity for \"working boys\" (that some said should not be \"entitled to books\") to acquire the knowledge to improve themselves.\nCarnegie's personal experience as an immigrant, who with help from others worked his way into a position of wealth, reinforced his belief in a society based on merit, where anyone who worked hard could become successful. This conviction was a major element of his philosophy of giving in general, and of his libraries as its best known expression.\n\nNearly all of Carnegie's libraries were built according to \"the Carnegie formula,\" which required financial commitments from the town that received the donation. Carnegie required public support rather than making endowments because, as he wrote: \n\nCarnegie required the elected officials—the local government—to:\n\n\nCarnegie assigned the decisions to his assistant James Bertram. He created a \"Schedule of Questions.\" The schedule included: Name, status and population of town, Does it have a library? Where is it located and is it public or private? How many books? Is a town-owned site available? Estimation of the community's population at this stage was done by local officials, and Bertram later commented if the population counts he received were truly accurate, \"the nation's population had mysteriously doubled\".\n\nThe impact of Carnegie's library philanthropy was maximized by his timing. His offers came at a peak of town development and library expansion in the US. By 1890, many states had begun to take an active role in organizing public libraries, and the new buildings filled a tremendous need. Interest in libraries was also heightened at a crucial time in their early development by Carnegie's high profile and his genuine belief in their importance.\n\nIn Canada in 1901, Carnegie offered more than $2.5 million to build 125 libraries. Most cities at first turned him down—then relented and took the money.\n\nThe first five Carnegie libraries followed a closed stacks policy, the method of operation common to libraries at that time. Patrons requested a book from a library staffer, who would fetch the book from closed stacks off limits to the public, and bring it to a delivery desk.\n\nTo reduce operating costs, Carnegie created a then revolutionary open-shelf or self-service policy beginning with the Pittsburgh neighborhood branches that opened after the main branch. This streamlined process allowed open access to shelves by patrons. Carnegie's architects designed the Pittsburgh neighborhood branches so that one librarian could oversee the entire operation.\n\nTheft of books and other items was a major concern in this era before electronic anti-theft devices. Thus the library's circulation desk—which replaced the delivery desk used in traditional closed stacks libraries—was strategically positioned just inside the front door. Bigger and more daunting than those used in modern libraries, these desks spanned almost the width of the lobby and acted as a physical and psychological barrier between the front entrance and the book room. Decades later, Joyce Broadus, the manager of Pittsburgh's Homewood branch, was credited with dubbing this design of the front desk \"the battleship.\"\n\nThe first of these 'open stack' branches was in the neighborhood of Lawrenceville—the sixth Carnegie library to open in America. The next was in the West End branch—the eighth Carnegie library to open in America. Patricia Lowry describes\n\nlocated just beyond the lobby, the circulation desk – no longer a delivery desk – took center stage in Lawrenceville, flanked by turnstiles that admitted readers to the open stacks one at a time, under the librarian's watchful eye. To thwart thievery, the stacks were arranged in a radial pattern. On each side of the lobby were a general reading room and, for the first time in a library anywhere, a room for children... The reading rooms were separated by walls that became glass partitions above waist level—the better to see you with, my dear.\n\nWalter E. Langsam, an architectural historian and teacher at the University of Cincinnati wrote \"The Carnegie libraries were important because they had open stacks which encouraged people to browse ... People could choose for themselves what books they wanted to read.\" This open stacks policy would eventually be adopted by the libraries that previously had opened with a closed stacks policy.\n\nCarnegie established charitable trusts which have continued his philanthropic work. However, even before his death they had reduced their involvement in the provision of libraries. There has continued to be support for library projects, for example in South Africa.\n\nIn 1992, \"The New York Times\" reported that, according to a survey conducted by George Bobinksi, dean of the School of Information and Library Studies at the State University at Buffalo, 1,554 of the 1,681 original buildings in the United States still existed, with 911 still used as libraries. Two-hundred seventy-six were unchanged, 286 had been expanded, and 175 had been remodeled. Two-hundred forty three had been demolished while others had been converted to other uses.\n\nWhile hundreds of the library buildings have become museums, community centers, office buildings, residences, or are otherwise used, more than half of those in the United States still serve their communities as libraries over a century after their construction, many in middle- to low-income neighborhoods. For example, Carnegie libraries still form the nucleus of the New York Public Library system in New York City, with 31 of the original 39 buildings still in operation. Also, the main library and eighteen branches of the Pittsburgh public library system are Carnegie libraries. The public library system there is named the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh.\nIn the late 1940s, the Carnegie Corporation of New York arranged for microfilming of the correspondence files relating to Andrew Carnegie's gifts and grants to communities for the public libraries and church organs. They then discarded the original materials. The microfilms are open for research as part of the Carnegie Corporation of New York Records collection, residing at Columbia University Rare Book and Manuscript Library. Archivists did not microfilm photographs and blueprints of the Carnegie Libraries. The number and nature of documents within the correspondence files varies widely. Such documents may include correspondence, completed applications and questionnaires, newspaper clippings, illustrations, and building dedication programs.\n\nUK correspondence files relating to individual libraries have been preserved in Edinburgh (see the article List of Carnegie libraries in Europe).\n\nBeginning in the 1930s, some libraries were meticulously measured, documented and photographed under the Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) program of the National Park Service, and other documentation has been collected by local historical societies. In 1935, the centennial of his Carnegie's birth, a copy of the portrait of him originally painted by F. Luis Mora was given to libraries he helped fund. Many of the Carnegie libraries in the United States, whatever their current uses, have been recognized by listing on the National Register of Historic Places. The first of these, in Braddock, Pennsylvania, was designated a National Historic Landmark in March 2012.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48080791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48080791", "title": "Consortium for Computing Sciences in Colleges", "text": "Consortium for Computing Sciences in Colleges\n\nThe Consortium for Computing Sciences in Colleges (CCSC) is a nonprofit organization divided into ten regions that roughly match geographical areas in the United States. The purpose of the consortium is to: \"promote, support and improve computing curricula in colleges and universities; encompass regional constituencies devoted to this purpose; and promote a national liaison among local, regional and national organizations devoted to this purpose\". Predominantly these colleges and universities are oriented toward teaching, rather than research.\n\nCCSC regions include:\n\n\nConferences are typically held annually by region, and include presentation of peer-reviewed papers, as well as student papers, posters, and programming contests, workshops, and special sessions for innovative assignments and approaches in the area of computer science technology and education. \n\nCCSC publishes the Journal of Computing Sciences in Colleges, containing the proceedings of each annual regional conference. The journal is distributed to approximately 600 faculty members from 350 colleges and universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "53382193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53382193", "title": "Council for the Defense of Historical, Archaeological, Artistic and Tourist Heritage", "text": "Council for the Defense of Historical, Archaeological, Artistic and Tourist Heritage\n\nThe Council for the Defense of Historical, Archaeological, Artistic and Tourist Heritage (), or CONDEPHAAT, protects, values and communicates information about cultural heritage in the State of São Paulo, Brazil. This includes monuments, buildings, natural areas, and historical areas, amongst other things. The Council was started in 1968. It is linked with SEC-SP.\n"}
{"id": "7618071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7618071", "title": "Divie Bethune McCartee", "text": "Divie Bethune McCartee\n\nDivie Bethune McCartee (Simplified Chinese: 麦嘉缔) (1820–1900) was an American Protestant Christian medical missionary, educator and U.S. diplomat in China and Japan, first appointed by the American Presbyterian Mission in 1843.\n\nIn 1845 he organized the first Protestant church on Chinese soil. He later served as United States Consul at Ningbo, China and was also judge of the \"mixed court\" at Shanghai. His career in Japan led him to be a professor in the Imperial University at Tokyo, and he was also Secretary of the Chinese legation there. His prolific writings covered Asiatic history, linguistics, natural science, medicine and politics in the publications of the American Geographical Society, the American Oriental Society and other associations.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, the oldest son of Dr. Robert McCartee of New York, Divie McCartee entered Columbia University, New York City, at the age of 14 and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania Medical School at 20. In June 1843 while engaged in the practice of medicine in Philadelphia, he received a message from the Board of Foreign Missions of the Church that he was needed to go to China as a pioneer and medical missionary. After consulting with members of his family, he agreed to go.\n\nMcCartee sailed for China in 1843 and arrived in Ningbo, Zhejiang, China in 1844. He began working primarily in medicine and evangelism. He was likely the first Protestant missionary, and certainly the first physician, to reside on Chinese soil following the First Opium War. He soon mastered the Chinese language, and his linguistic skills would be put to a variety of future uses. He opened a mission at Ningbo, one of the five ports opened to foreign trade and intercourse by the Treaty of Nanking in 1842.\n\nIn 1845 he organized the first Protestant church on Chinese soil. It was there that he married fellow missionary, Juana M. Knight in 1853. She was the first single Presbyterian woman to travel to China.\n\nIn 1868 or 1869, the McCartees adopted Kin Yamei (1864–1934), the daughter of Christian colleagues who succumbed to disease when she was two years old. She became the first Chinese woman doctor educated abroad.\n\nIn addition to his medical work, he became an adviser and interpreter for American officials and was later vice-consul in Chefoo (present-day Yantai) and Shanghai. McCartee acted in place of an American Consul until a regular consular service was set up in 1857. In this capacity in May 1861, at the request of United States Flag-Officer Stribling, he entered Nanjing, across the battle lines and helped persuade the \"Heavenly King\", Hong Xiuquan of the Taipings to promise \"non-molestation not only to Americans and Christians, but to all Chinese in their employ.\" By this effort large numbers of native Christians and their friends were rescued when the Taiping army entered Ningbo.\n\nIn 1862 he was appointed vice-consul to Japan. As such he was the first Protestant missionary to work there. His tract translated into Japanese was the first Protestant literature in Japan.\n\nThe McCartees returned to Ningpo in 1865 to resume their missionary work. In 1872, they were transferred to the Shanghai mission but resigned shortly thereafter so that Dr. McCartee could join the Shanghai consular staff as interpreter and assessor to the Mixed Court.\n\nIn 1872, when the coolies of the Peruvian ship ‘’Maria Luz’’ were freed by the Japanese government upon his suggestion, a commission was appointed from Beijing to proceed to Tokyo to bring home the freed men, and McCartee was nominated secretary and interpreter, receiving for his services a gold medal and complimentary letters. While on this Chinese government assignment to Japan, McCartee remained in Tokyo as professor of law and science at the Imperial University (now Tokyo University), curator of the botanical gardens, and later secretary to the Chinese Legation there until 1877.\n\nIn 1879 he advised Ulysses S. Grant, the former U.S. president, mediating on the Ryukyu Islands, although both China and Japan rejected his compromise.\n\nMcCartee returned to the United States in 1880, and in 1882 visited Hawaii on business connected with Chinese immigration. In 1885, Dr. McCartee was appointed consul to the Japanese legation in Washington, DC. Two years later the McCartees were reappointed by the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions to the Japan Mission, where they served until Dr. McCartee's retirement in 1899. That year he returned to the U.S.A. as an invalid and died in San Francisco the following year.\n\nDivie McCartee devoted nearly forty years of his life to work among the Chinese and Japanese. The Chinese Government gave him a gold medal in recognition of his services in connection with the suppression of the Macau coolie traffic, and later he received the title of Consul General for services in the Chinese legation. From the Japanese Government he received the decoration of the Fifth Order of the Rising Sun. He left a wife and four brothers-Peter, Robert, George, and Charles McCartee. His remains were buried at Newburgh (city), New York.\n\nThe Presbyterian Historical Society in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has a collection of Divie Bethune McCartee's correspondence.\n\nThe University of Pennsylvania's Rare Book and Manuscript Library has a collection of handwritten notes by McCartee on Chinese and Japanese archaeology, geography, natural history, philology and other topics.\n\nThe Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University has zoological specimens sent from China by McCartee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26039331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26039331", "title": "European Platform for Rehabilitation", "text": "European Platform for Rehabilitation\n\nThe European Platform for Rehabilitation (EPR) is a network of European providers of rehabilitation services to people with disabilities and other disadvantaged groups. EPR members deliver services in the fields of vocational training and education, reintegration of service users into the open labour market and improvement of their employability, physical rehabilitation and social care.\n\nThe Platform was first established in 1993 by rehabilitation centres in France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. Its secretariat is located in Brussels, Belgium.\n\nThe European Platform for Rehabilitation operates a range of services in the areas of professional development, research and innovation and public affairs. EPR is also active in the field of quality of services, and has developed its own quality system: EQUASS (European Quality Assurance for Social Services).\nEPR is a member of the Social Platform and has a seat at the EU’s High Level Group on Disability as well as participatory status with the Council of Europe. EPR receives structural funding under the European Commission Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013, and is involved in a number of projects funded by the European Commission.\n\nThe European Platform for Rehabilitation is currently involved in the \"Assistive Technologies and Inclusive Solutions for All (ATIS4all)\" project funded by EU´s Policy Support Programme - Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme. ATIS4all project aims to improve the accessibility of assistive technology (AT) for all. Its main objective is to encourage an open discussion in order that a greater sharing of knowledge and expertise among key experts and users takes place. This is to be done while assuring the key principle that Human Rights are to be enjoyed equally by all people, including those with disabilities, the elderly and those from disadvantaged backgrounds. The project started in January 2011, and is expected to last for three years. EPR takes part in the project consortium, along with other major European organisations and stakeholders in the field of assistive technologies and integration. The ATIS4all open European collaborative web portal, collecting information about Assistive Technologies and inclusive solutions for all has been launched. ATIS4all network invites interested parties to visit and register to the portal and to join as “supporters” i.e. any organisation working in any field related to ICT-AT and inclusive solutions.\n\nEPR’s membership is separated into two types: Full and Associate. :\n\nFull members:\n\nAssociate members:\n\n"}
{"id": "38500388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38500388", "title": "Fachwirt", "text": "Fachwirt\n\nA Fachwirt is a higher professional certification in Germany allocated to level 6 of the European Qualifications Framework, where it was translated to Business Management Specialist. \n\nTo facilitate appreciation of the Fachwirt internationally, the Association of German Chambers of Industry and Commerce (\"Deutscher Industrie- und Handelskammertag\", DIHK) proposed \"Bachelor Professional\" as the English translation. However, due to the danger of confusion with academic degrees, this motion was rejected by the German state ministers of education. Yet, this has not stopped the IHK institutions from issuing certificates in English that show the title \"Bachelor Professional\" in big letters, with only a small note at the bottom of the page that it is not an university degree. However, owners of the certificate must be very careful not to come into conflict with § 132a Abs. 2 of the German criminal code by using the title in relation to someone located in Germany. Applying for a position solely outside of Germany with the certificate is arguably not affected, however (and is the original purpose of the translation). A legally grey area may be the use of the title on career networks on the Internet (which is actually quite common), where both German and foreign companies are targeted at the same time.\n\nThe Fachwirt provides a form of continuing professional development, which is usually pursued following an apprenticeship and at least one year of professional experience in a recognized occupation. The final examinations, regulated by the German Vocational Training Act, are carried out by specialized committees of the German Chambers of Commerce and Industry (DIHK). Learning objectives, defined by DIHK created frameworks, require knowledge in business administration as well as practical and theoretical skills in a particular industrial sector (e.g. \"Handelsfachwirt\" for Trade and Commerce, \"Verkehrsfachwirt\" for Transport Management, \"Fachwirt im Sozial- und Gesundheitswesen\" for Social and Health Services). \n\nAlthough not a prerequisite for admission to the final exams, training courses are offered by several, primarily private educational institutions. Depending on the specialization, the curricula suggest coursework of 400 to 800 hours, which is taught in 6 to 24 month of full-time or part-time study, respectively, comparable to almost a full term at university which carries 30 ECTS representative of 900 hours of course work.\n"}
{"id": "12291444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12291444", "title": "Federation of Estonian Student Unions", "text": "Federation of Estonian Student Unions\n\nThe Federation of Estonian Student Unions (, EÜL) is a federation of Estonian student unions. It was founded on 23 November 1991, shortly after Estonia regained independence. EÜL as umbrella organization currently represents over 95% of Estonian students.\n\nEÜL works closely together with Riigikogu (the parliament), the government, different ministries, higher education institutions and other partners. EÜL is also a leading NGO in Estonia and sometimes also represents students in schools, youth in general or just NGOs in different committees. EÜL is recognised as a partner by the Ministry of Education and Research. EÜL is a member of European Students' Union.\n\nEÜL’s main decision body is the EÜL Board where all member student bodies are represented. Membership of EÜL is voluntary for a student body but all Estonian students are automatically members of their higher education institution (HEI) student body. There are no membership fees for the students for belonging to student unions or student bodies. EÜL also has a council of 9 members, who is elected by the board every 2 years.\n\nThe Board decides main future plans and policies, adopts the plan of work, is in charge of the budget and elects the Executive Committee (EC) and other committees. The 40-45 member Board is elected by the local unions, all students of all members are eligible to be elected as member of the council or the board. Each member of EÜL shall have 1 member and additional 1-member on EÜL Board for every 2000 students (e.g., a HEI with 6200 students has 4 members on EÜL Board). The Board assembles regularly 5 to 6 times per year.\n\nThe Executive Committee currently consists of 2 people with a 2-year mandate – the Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson.\n\nSince 2000 EÜL ECs have usually had a mandate of one year. From 2006 to 2007 was a transition period in which the start of the mandate was pushed from January to July to be more compatible with local unions democratic cycle thus the mandate for Executive Committees was longer than 12 months.\n\nIn February 2009 the Board decided change the mandate of the EC to two full years beginning from 1 July 2009. Concurrently with that, the EC will consist of only the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. This is aimed at more professional leadership in EÜL. The Executive Committee is heading EÜL secretariat and EÜL foundations which consists of 12 to 20 employees and project managers working in the EÜL office.\n\nOther structures in EÜL are the advisory board which advises the EC on strategical decisions and on extraordinary financial issues, and the Internal Audit Committee which supervises the EC and makes sure that EÜL governance is complying with the law and the decisions of the Board.\n\nEÜL also distributes the International Student Identity Card which is an identity card for students, teachers and youth in general. The ISIC card is the main source of revenue for EÜL.\n\nEÜL is a member of Nordiskt Ordförande Möte (NOM), European Students' Union (ESU) and Network of Estonian Non-profit Organisations (EMSL).\n\n"}
{"id": "22753804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22753804", "title": "Goodyear Polymer Center", "text": "Goodyear Polymer Center\n\nThe Goodyear Polymer Center (commonly referred to as \"the polymer building\") is a 146,000 sq. ft. research facility, located at the University of Akron, in Akron, Ohio. It consists of 12-story and 9-story towers connected by glass-enclosed walkways that serve as areas for informal interaction. It is the 8th tallest building in Akron. \n\nIt contains eight large polymer synthesis groups, computer simulation and modeling capabilities, a microscopy suite, molecular and morphological characterization labs, surface analysis facilities, and thermal analysis and mechanical properties testing equipment.\n\nThe Goodyear Polymer Center houses both the Department of Polymer Science and the Institute of Polymer Science. The building houses classrooms, approximately 60 labs, 20 faculty offices, and 25 offices with 200 modules arranged in clusters for students and researchers. It contains the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Center, the Paul J. Flory Reading Room, The International Rubber Science Hall of Fame portrait gallery, The Applied Polymer Research Center, and the 213-seat Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company Auditorium.\n\n"}
{"id": "43297628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43297628", "title": "Govt. Polytechnic Nilokheri", "text": "Govt. Polytechnic Nilokheri\n\nGuru BrahamaNand Ji Govt. Polytechnic Institute Nilokheri (Urdu: گرو برهماند جی سرکاری بهتكنيك سستھان نلوكھےڑي, \nHindi:गुरु ब्रहमानंद जी राजकीय बहुतकनीक संसथान, निलोखेड़ी Punjabi ਗੁਰੂ ब्रह्ममानंद जी राजकीय ਬਹੁਕਨੀਕ ਸੰਸਥਾ, ਨੀਲੋਕੇੜੀ) is a co-educational institution of higher learning located in the town of Nilokheri in the Karnal region of Haryana. The Institute was established in 1947, by Govt. of India. It was re-established in 1951 is affiliated with the Haryana State Board of Technical Education (HSBTE), Panchkula and approved by All India Council of Technical Education, New Delhi (AICTE) and the Department of Technical Education, Govt. of Haryana (DTE). It is one of the best in North India. Diploma holders from this institute serve in various Govt. Organization and Institution all over India.\n\nThe Guru BrahmaNand Ji Govt. Polytechnic Institute Nilokheri is one of the premier Technical Institutions in the country with an international repute. The Institute is situated at a distance of 143 km. from Delhi on National Highway-I towards north. This Institute was originally located at Rasool (West Punjab) as Govt. school of Engg. After partition, it was shifted to Chhachhrauli (Distt. Yamunanagar) and subsequently to Nilokheri in 1951. Nilokheri Polytechnic, Nilokheri established by the Govt. of India in 1947, was already in existence. Both these institutes kept running simultaneously till 1958 when these were merged on recommendation of Govt. of India and named as Punjab Polytechnic, Nilokheri with the reorganizing of the State on 1 November 1966, this institute was renamed as Haryana Polytechnic, Nilokheri, it was again renamed as Govt. Polytechnic Nilokheri, and recently it is renamed as Guru BrahmaNand Ji Govt. Polytechnic Institute Nilokheri. It was a part of the scheme called \"Mazdoor Manzil\" aimed at self-sufficiency for the rural-cum-urban township in all the essential requirements of life.\n\nGuru Brahamanand Ji Govt. Polytechnic Institute Nilokheri is affiliated with the Haryana State Board of Technical Education (HSBTE), Panchkula and approved by All India Council of Technical Education, New Delhi (AICTE) and the Department of Technical Education, Govt. of Haryana (DTE).\n\nGuru Brahamanand Ji Govt. Polytechnic Institute Nilokheri offers post Tenth Class diplomas in the following three-year engineering programs:\n\nInstitution also imparts training to artisans and unskilled personnel run under 100% Centre Sponsored Community Development through Polytechnic (CDTP) Scheme and courses Creation of Employment Generation Opportunities (CEGO). These courses help in up gradation of skill and generation of employment. \n\nThe Institute is conducting testing of cement, concrete and soils for Govt. Deptts., Semi-Govt. Deptts., Public Sector Agencies and Private Sector Agencies. Department has the expertise to handle various Civil Works.\n\nThe diploma holders from this institute have found employment in various Govt. Deptts, Public and Pvt. Enterprises such as; Railways, MES, IITs, CPWD, PWD (B & R), PWD Irrigation, PWD (Public Health), Pollution Control Board, Housing Boards, HUDA, HSEB, MITC, Panchayat Raj, and some has started their own enterprises. Students of this institute have also been able enter other countries as well i.e. Eritrea, Dubai etc.\n\nTo celebrate alumnus of the institute alumni meet are organised as like in the year 2008 and 2018.\n\nThis institute also has National Cadet Corps scheme for better development of students enriching their overall personality.\n\nThere are two hostels for the accommodation of diploma students. \n\nA new building has been constructed for the diploma students. This new building was started its academics for the first year students in the session 2016-17. Its construction started in 2009 and was completed in 2013.\n\nThe Government Engineering College, Nilokheri (Hindi: राजकीय अभियांत्रिकी महाविद्यालय, निलोखेड़ी ) (abbreviated GECN)is a public government engineering institution located in Nilokheri. It is among the two engineering college run by the government in Haryana, the other being Government Engineering College.\n\nThe concept of the diploma institute at Nilokheri as an engineering college was first introduced in year 2000.\nThe college building was previously used by the students of Govt. Polytechnic Nilokheri was granted the status of Engineering college in 2016. The college was inaugurated by Manohar Lal Khattar, who was the Chief Minister of Haryana. It was established to facilitate and promote studies and research in emerging areas of Engineering education with focus on new frontiers of technology and to achieve excellence in the connected fields. \nThe Guru BrahmaNand Ji Govt. Polytechnic Nilokheri (GBNGPN) formerly known as the Govt. Polytechnic Nilokheri (GPN)'s classes of Diploma Ist year were shifted out en-block to mark the beginning of GEC Nilokheri at its campus in new building. The Guru BrahmaNand Ji Govt. Polytechnic Nilokheri (GBNGPN) is thus the mother institution of GEC Nilokheri.\n"}
{"id": "11338253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11338253", "title": "Henry Alan Skinner", "text": "Henry Alan Skinner\n\nHenry Alan Lawson Skinner born Erin, Ontario on September 26, 1899 was a Canadian anatomist and classical scholar who wrote \"The Origin of Medical Terms\", published by The Williams & Wilkins Company, Baltimore in 1949. He received his M.B from Toronto, and was appointed assistant professor of Anatomy at the University of Western Ontario in 1929. By 1963 he had risen to Professor and Head of the Department of Anatomy at Western Ontario.\n"}
{"id": "50082604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50082604", "title": "Hi uTandem", "text": "Hi uTandem\n\nHi uTandem, also known as uTandem, is a free language exchange mobile app. It helps people to connect with other language learners in order to carry out face-to-face language exchange sessions and also offers learners lists of businesses in the field of language learning or language exchange.\n\nHi uTandem is built around the concept of language exchange, which is a method of language learning based on mutual oral linguistic exchange between partners. Ideally, each partner is a native speaker of the language they are helping their counterpart to learn. The app designed for users to chat with other users and translate messages, find suitable language partners and to locate language schools, bars, cafés and language exchange groups around them.\n\nHi uTandem was released in January, 2016. The initial idea was conceived by Alberto Rodríguez as part of a team of eight Spanish youngsters. Hi uTandem belongs to the company Velvor Tech S.L., founded by the same members and registered in Ronda (Spain).\n\nHi uTandem was listed on the Top 4 Apps to Learn Languages list by ElPlural.com and since its launch it has been featured in numerous online and physical sources, including 20 minutos, Europapress, ABC Andalucía and Telefónica's Think Big Blog.\n"}
{"id": "31632621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31632621", "title": "IDEA Fairness Restoration Act", "text": "IDEA Fairness Restoration Act\n\nThe IDEA Fairness Restoration Act is an American legislative proposal first introduced in the United States House of Representatives on November 14, 2007 as H.R.4188. The bill was most recently reintroduced on March 17, 2011 in the Senate as S.613 and in the House as H.R. 1208 The primary sponsors are Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA), Chair of the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee, Congressmen Chris Van Hollen (D-CT), and Congressman Pete Sessions (R-TX). The bill would enable parents of children with disabilities to recover their expert witness fees in due process hearings under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).\n\nWhen a school district fails its legal obligations to students with disabilities, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act permits the parent to seek a hearing before an impartial hearing officer. A school district may also request a due process hearing against parents. Hearings are rare. Only 5 in 10,000 students seek a hearing. \n\nExpert witnesses have a critical role at due process hearings. They provide the technical expertise about the student’s disability and the care and educational services the student needs in the classroom. \n\nIn 1986, Congress passed the Handicapped Children’s Protection Act, allowing parents who prevail in due process hearings and litigation under the IDEA to recover their legal fees and costs. The language was modeled on similar provisions in the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e-5k). Congress’ Joint Conference Committee Report explained that the courts would have discretion to award attorneys’ fees as part of the costs of litigation. It noted that “The conferees intend that the term ‘attorneys’ fees as part of the costs’ include reasonable expenses and fees of expert witnesses and the reasonable costs of any test or evaluation which is found to be necessary for the preparation of the parent or guardian’s case in the action or proceeding.” The statute also directed the GAO to study the costs to parents, including costs of “attorneys and\nconsultants” in IDEA proceedings. \n\nIn 2006, however, the Supreme Court decided the case of Arlington Central School Dist. Bd. of Ed. v. Murphy. The Court ruled that because the statutory text of the IDEA did not explicitly state that expert witness fees were covered, parents could not recover them. The Court reasoned that because the IDEA was enacted under the Spending Clause of the Constitution, Article I, Section 8, the law must “unambiguously” give notice in its statutory text that parents could recover fees. This meant Congress had to declare in the body of the statute that parents could recover expert witness fees. The IDEA Fairness Restoration Act will amend the statutory text of the IDEA to permit recovery of expert witness fees. Until Congress does, parents must pay their own expert witness fee expenses, even when they prevail.\n\nThe IDEA permits parents who prevail in IDEA cases to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees. The IDEA Fairness Restoration Act will enable them to also recover the reasonable costs of expert witnesses. It will amend Section 615(i)(3) of the IDEA by adding the following at the end, “Inclusion of expert witness fees and other expenses as attorneys' fees. In this paragraph, the term ‘attorneys' fees’ shall include the fees of expert witnesses, including the reasonable costs of any test or evaluation necessary for the preparation of the parent or guardian's case in the action or proceeding.”\nParents can recover expert witness fees only when they prevail, and the school system has been found, after an impartial hearing, to have wrongfully denied a child an appropriate education as defined in IDEA. fees. Parents cannot recover fees if they do not prevail.\n\nThe bill will align the IDEA with other civil rights statutes that permit recovery of expert witness fees, including Title VII, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Several federal laws permit recovery of expert witness fees, including Voting Rights Act of 1965, Consumer Product Safety Act, Toxic Substances Control Act, Petroleum Marketing Practices Act, Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud Abuse and Prevention Act, Endangered Species Act, the Patent and Copyright Acts, PROTECT Act, Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, Presidential and Executive Office Accountability Act, and the Whistleblower Protections for Contractor Employees of Department of Defense, Coast Guard, and National Aeronautics and Space Administration Act.\n\nWhen Senator Harkin introduced the bill, he explained the reasons for enactment. He said, “This critical legislation will remove the financial barrier that families, especially low- and middle-income families, face as they pursue their children's rights to the free, appropriate public education they deserve and are entitled to under the Fourteenth Amendment...There are . . .times when schools have not fulfilled their responsibilities to provide an appropriate education. In these cases, IDEA provides parents the right to challenge the schools through mediation and due process. To make their argument, families often need access to expert witnesses who can assess the student's needs and testify about whether the current IEP meets those needs. These expert witnesses are a resource that many families cannot afford, but without access to them, families may be unable to make their case. ” A 2002 study found that more than 1/3 of children with disabilities lived in households with incomes of $25,000 or less, compared to 24% of the general population, and 2/3 of children with disabilities lived in families that earned less than $50,000 a year.\n\nThe IDEA Fairness Restoration Act was first introduced the House of Representatives in 2007 by Congressman Van Hollen and Congressman Sessions. The bill was introduced again in 2009. The bill was most recently re-introduced on March 17, 2011, in both the House and Senate as S.613 and H.R. 1208.\n\n"}
{"id": "52920699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52920699", "title": "Institut français en Inde", "text": "Institut français en Inde\n\nThe Institut français en Inde is part of the worldwide network of \"French institutes\". The Delhi office is the only in India, the Pondichery antenna of the institute being a research facility more than a cultural centre.\n\nThis French Institute was inaugurated on 29 March 2012 by Mr Xavier Darcos, then president of the French Institute alliance.\nHowever, French cultural activities in Delhi have existed under various forms before the official opening of the institute. Before 2012, all cultural activities related to the French embassy were supervised by Culturesfrance.\n\nThe French Institute entertains close links with the French Embassy in India, the local Alliance Française and other French-teaching establishments like the Lycée Français de Delhi.\n\nThe Lycée français de Delhi and the Centre for Social Research and Humanities are also based within its walls. \nIt is located next to the 5 stars hotel 'Taj Mahal', the Parsi cemetery and a few hundred meters from the Rajpath and India Gate\n\nThe institute’s cultural center participates actively to the local and national art scene, by organising dozens of cultural events every year, on a local, regional or national basis. It also participates to external events, within the promotion of friendly ties between France and other francophone countries and India.\n\nIn addition to these events, the center offers regular French classes and international certifications of proficiency in French (such as DELF, DALF, DELF Junior, DELF Pro, TCF and TEF).\n\nThe French Institute - New Delhi is also engaged in giving online access to learning material; it created http://india.salledesprofs.org/, in order to give French teachers in India better access to approved teaching resources.\n\nIt cooperates intimately with Indian universities to propose joint courses to Indian and French students alike. In 2011 alone, 2500 Indian students chose to study in France via the joint programs created by the Institut français.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7020311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7020311", "title": "International Mathematical Olympiad selection process", "text": "International Mathematical Olympiad selection process\n\nThis article describes the selection process, by country, for entrance into the International Mathematical Olympiad.\n\nThe International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) is an annual mathematics olympiad for students younger than 20 who have not started at university.\n\nEach year, participating countries send at most 6 students. The selection process varies between countries, but typically involves several rounds of competition, each progressively more difficult, after which the number of candidates is repeatedly reduced until the final 6 are chosen.\n\nMany countries also run training events for IMO potentials, with the aim of improving performance as well as assisting with team selection.\n\nIn Argentina, the Olimpíada Matemática Argentina is organized each year by Fundación Olimpíada Matemática Argentina. All students that took and passed the National Finals (fifth and last round of the competition) exams, usually held in November; and were born before July 1 21 years ago, are allowed to take two new written tests to be selected for IMO, usually in May. From the results of that tests, six titular students and a number of substitutes are selected to represent Argentina at the International Mathematical Olympiad.\n\nIn Australia, selection into the IMO team is determined by the Australian Mathematics Trust and is based on the results from four exams:\n\nThe Australian Mathematics Olympiad (AMO) is held annually in the second week of February. It is composed of two four-hour papers held over two consecutive days. There are four questions in each exam for a total of eight questions. Entry is by invitation only with approximately 100 candidates per year.\n\nA month after the AMO, the Asian Pacific Mathematics Olympiad is held (APMO) and the top 25 from the AMO are invited to sit the exam. It is a four and a half hour exam with five questions.\n\nThe top 12 students from the AMO and APMO (along with another 12 or so junior students) are then invited to a ten-day camp held in Sydney in the April school holidays. During this camp, two four-and-a-half hour \nselection exams are held, each with four questions. The top six candidates along with a reserve are then announced as part of the team based on their results in the four exams.\n\nIn 2011, there were three selection exams, each with three questions in four-and-a-half hours to better simulate the conditions of the IMO.\n\nThe selection process is organised by Bangladesh Mathematical Olympiad.\nThere are three levels of selection in Bangladesh. In first two levels the students participate in four academic categories: primary, junior, secondary and higher secondary.\n\n\nThe Brazilian participants are selected in a two phase process:\n1st. The contestants that are awarded medals or honorable mentions in the Brazilian Mathematical Olympiad (OBM) (Olimpíada Brasileira de Matemática)of the year before the IMO are selected to participate in a training process to the IMO.\n2nd. The contestants take a series of tests, which have IMO-like level, and the top students are invited to join the Brazilian team that goes to IMO.\n\nThe Belgian team is bilingual. The Dutch-speaking community selects three participants during the Vlaamse Wiskunde Olympiade. The French-speaking community selects their three participants through the Olympiade Mathématique Belge and additional tests at training weekends.\n\nHigh school students must first write the Canadian Open Mathematics Challenge, which takes place around November. If they score high enough in the COMC(normally 70+), they will be invited to write the Canadian Mathematics Olympiad (CMO), Asian Pacific Mathematics Olympiad (APMO), and unofficially write the USAMO.\n\nThe students with the top scores (conditions permitting) will make the Canadian team and travel to the location of the IMO in that year. Although the team is made up of students from all over Canada, Toronto and its suburbs have produced the most people for the team due to its high population density. The Canadian Mathematical Society is the organization which selects team leaders and members for the IMO team.\n\nIn mainland China, high school students have the annual National Highschool Mathematics Competitions, held on the second Sunday of September. A few competitors of each province with best scores, usually the top 3 to 5( but for these strong provinces, it can be about 15, such as Beijing), will be invited to participate in the China Mathematics Olympiads. Approximately the top 60 competitors of CMO will have a training campus; After two tests, the top 15 competitors in the campus will stay and take another four. Then, the 6 students with top scores will form the Chinese team. China has been very successful in recent twenty years at the IMO.\n\nIn Colombia the selection and preparation of students for math competitions is organized by Olimpiadas Colombianas de Matemáticas. The process begins with the regional competitions which are held in October and November. The best students of these competitions are invited to the January Training Session. In early March the National Competition or Olimpiada Colombiana de Matemáticas begins. It consists of a sequence of four examinations: the classificatoria, the selectiva, the semifinal and the ronda final. The latter contains a (prior) training session and then two days of IMO-style papers.\n\nEvery Colombian high school student can take part in the first \"classifying\" examination but afterwards students are invited to compete according to their results on the previous examination. The three best students of the three different high school levels of the final round examination are the winners of the Colombian Math Olympiad. Although in principle students of the lower levels may be selected to go to the IMO, it generally takes many years before they can compete with students of the highest level or nivel superior. After the National Competition the twenty best students of each level are invited to the June Training Session where students undergo the IMO selection process.\n\n\"Hrvatsko matematičko društvo\" invites about 20 contestants who performed best at the national level (national level competition is separated by age) to the Croatian Mathematical Olympiad (\"Hrvatska matematička olimpijada\", HMO) which consists of 2 days, 4 problems each. The best ~10 are invited to the IMO test, the rest to the MEMO test. The best six at the IMO test and HMO combined are selected for IMO.\n\nIn Cuba the selection process consists (depending on regional conditions of availability of resources, participants and organizers) six levels. Competitions are held to select the best candidates from each school, then from each municipality, then from each province who then are allowed to take part in the National Competition (\"Concurso Nacional\" in Spanish). The gold and silver medals (around 20 participants) take a number of further exams closer to the level of International competitions. Thirteen of these are selected to form the National Pre-Selection that trains for up to three months taking also exams out of which the best 6 are selected to form the National team. In a number of years the lack of financial support has allowed only the first member of the team to actually travel and compete in the International mathematical Olympiad. \n\nIn Cyprus Four provincial competitions and a National (Pancyprian) competition are held every year. During this procedure 30 students are selected and Four Team Selection Tests are held to determine who will be the six member of national team for IMO\n\n\nAfter successfully completing the school and regional rounds, roughly 50 best participants are invited to the national round, where 10 best students are selected to participate in a week-long selection campus. Each day they solve a set of 3-4 problems, taken mainly from the past national olympiads of various countries. On the last day they have to find the answers (this time in form of a number) to rather large set of shorter problems under significant time-pressure. After that the team is selected and before the actual IMO, it competes in traditional Czech-Slovak-Polish Mathematical Contest where the participants can practise their skill under almost identical conditions to IMO.\n\nIn Denmark a national contest open to all high school students is held every year called \"Georg Mohr-Konkurrencen\" (the Georg Mohr Contest) named after a Danish mathematician. The top 20 of this contest are then invited to another contest where the final team is selected.\n\nThe Association Animath, and more precisely the prepares and selects the French IMO team. Students who succeed at a preselection test can get from Animath a year-long training, after which the team is selected by an IMO-like test.\n\nIMO team selection in Germany is based on the main national mathematical competitions: The Bundeswettbewerb Mathematik (BWM, the former west German olympiad), the Deutsche Mathematik-Olympiade (DeMO, the former east German olympiad), and Jugend forscht (a research competition). Students successful in any of these competitions (e. g. a prize in the second round of the BWM) write two 3-hour exams at their schools, and the 16 best scorers of these exams are invited to a training program consisting of five seminars, where lectures are given and seven team selection tests are written - 4-hour exams determining the actual IMO contestants (additional tests are possible if the team is not uniquely determined after the seven exams).\n\n\nHong Kong first joined IMO in 1988.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the International Mathematical Olympiad Preliminary Selection Contest is held every year. Around 60 students are selected to receive further training, after three phases of which six students will be selected as the Hong Kong team members, and six will be selected as reserve members. The further training is also known as phase four training.\n\nIceland first joined the IMO in 1985.\n\nIn Iceland, the Icelandic Mathematical Olympiad for Secondary School Students (Stærðfræðikeppni Framhaldsskólanema) was first held in the winter of 1984-1985, and his been an annual occurrence ever since. It is hosted by the Icelandic Mathematical Organization and the Natural Sciences's Teacher Association. Its goals include increasing the interest of Icelandic secondary school students towards mathematics, and other fields built on a mathematical foundation.\n\nThe contest is held in two parts every winter. First, a qualifier held in October of every year on two difficulty levels; upper level, and lower level. The lower level is intended for first year secondary school students, and the upper level for older students. Those who do well in the qualifier are invited to the final competition, held in March.\n\nAlongside honours and awards, the top students are selected to perform in various mathematical olympiads, including the Baltic Way, the Nordic Mathematical Contest, and the International Mathematical Olympiad.\n\n\nIn Indonesia, National Mathematical Olympiad is held as a part of National Science Olympiad (Olimpiade Sains Nasional), and has been held annually since 2002. About 100-120 students who pass the province-level test will be eligible to participate in the National Mathematical Olympiad, which is held in August or September. About thirty students are chosen to get into the first training camp, which is held at October through November. About half of them will go to second training camp and participate in the Asian Pacific Mathematics Olympiad. At the end, six students are selected to represent the country. The selection depends on the results of regular tests held every week in every training camp, IMO simulation test and APMO.\n\nIn Ireland, the top scorers in the Junior Certificate (a state exam taken around the age of 15-16) are invited by the various universities to take part in the Irish Mathematical Olympiad. The IrMO is held simultaneously in May in each of these universities. The test consists of two three-hour papers, each containing five questions, run on the same day. The top six students are selected for the national team.\n\nIn Italy, the Mathematical Olympiad is held every year; the full selection process is made up of four stages:\nThe six-person team competing in the IMO is determined by summing up the scores of four different competitions: the senior national stage, held each September in Pisa, the Balkan selection test held each February in Pisa (also selecting the team competing in the BMO and in the RMM) composed by two papers with three problems, four and a half hours each, and then the national stage and the May stage held in Pisa.\n\nIn Japan, Japan Mathematical Olympiad(JMO) is held every year. JMO has two rounds: the first one in January and the second one in February. The best 20 scorers in JMO are invited to the spring training camp in March. The top six students in several tests at this camp are selected for the national team.\n\nIn Latvia a national contest open to all high school students takes place each year. The best participants of regional contests are allowed to participate in the national olympiad held in Riga. The top students are further tested to select the national team.\n\nThe selection is based on the Olimpiad Matematik Kebangsaan, OMK (National Mathematical Olympiad) and the subsequent training camps. Top OMK performers are selected to attend the training camps, and the final IMO representatives are selected based on the students' performance in the camps and race.\n\nThe selecting process in Mexico has 3 stages and is organized by the Mexican Mathematical Olimpiad. At first stage, each of the 31 states and the Distrito Federal select a team of up to 6 students (10 in the case of the Distrito Federal) which will represent the state in the national contest. The contest is held once at year, in the month of November.\nAccording to the results of this contest, at least 16 students are selected, who will continue to the second stage of the selecting process, the national trainings, which are held from November to April in which the group of 16 students gets reduced to approximately 10.\nIn May the third stage of the contest is held, in which the six students that will represent Mexico in the next IMO. In similar process the teams for the Centroamerican and Caribbean Mathematical Olimpiad (OMCC) and Iberoamerican Mathematical Olimpiad (OIM) are selected. In March the test for the APMO is solved.\n\nIn the Netherlands the selecting process consists of three rounds.\n\n\nThe first selection is based on the September Problems, where the top 24 students are selected and invited to a residential one week training camp. At the end of the camp, approximately 12 students are selected as a squad. The squad receives regular assignments to complete every few weeks as well as sitting the British Maths Olympiad, Australian Maths Olympiad and the APMO. The final six candidates plus one reserve are later selected based on results of the assignments and these tests.\n\nIn Norway, the Niels Henrik Abels Matematikkonkurranse is held each year. The first selection, usually in September, consist of a multiple-choice exam with 20 problems. One is given 5 points for each correct answer, 1 point for each unanswered problem and 0 point for a wrong answer. Approximately 10% of the competing students are selected for the second selection, which is held in February. The examination consist of 10 problems, giving 10 points for each correct answer, who are integers between zero and one thousand. 20 students are then selected for a final four-hour-long examination consisting of four problems. While usually the 3 best students are automatically chosen for the final team, the rest 3 are decided by their results in the Nordic Mathematical Contest, which they will compete in afterwards.\n\nIn Pakistan, selection for the IMO participants is quite similar to that in other countries. The process starts one and a half year before a particular IMO; and a test (also known as NMTC - National Mathematics Talent Contest) is taken by the high school students which is organized by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan. The test is held in January and the results are announced by April or May. About fifty students out of a 4000 are selected which are called by Abdus Salam School of Mathematics, Government College University, Pakistan - usually in September. The fifty selectees are taught at the school for a week or two and are then tested at the last two days of the camp. This process, involving the top 50, is known as First Camp. Based on the performance in the test, about 20 students are further selected for the Second Camp, and the rest are dropped. These 20 students are joined by 30 students (from NMO - National Mathematics Olympiad) in the Second Camp. Ten students from the 50 are then selected, again based on their performance in a test. Third Camp is the final camp, and 5 are screened out of these 10. These would be the finalised participants for IMO.\n\nAlternatively, high school students from all over Pakistan take NMO (National Mathematics Olympiad) which is organized by Abdus Salam School itself. About 30 are selected which join the NMTC top 20 students in Second Camp. This test is held after the result of the First Camp of NMTC is announced. Students who do not qualify the First Camp of NMTC can still take the NMO if they wish to come to the Second Camp.\n\nSometimes, the selection process may involve more than three camps and the number of students selected per camp can vary from the figures provided above.\n\n\nThe selection process starts with the Philippine Mathematical Olympiad (PMO), which includes a regional level, an area level, and a national level. The top twenty students in the national level of PMO will be invited to a one-month training camp. The top students (at most six) in the selection tests given during this training camp will make up the IMO team.\n\nIn Portugal, there are four selection steps. The three first are the exams of the Portuguese Mathematics Olympiad and the last is composed of several exams made by Projecto Delfos, who also prepares the students for international competitions.\n\nIn Romania those that enter the Romanian National Team on Mathematical Olympiad are selected from four rounds: School, City, County and National. In the case of Bucharest, being some 5 times larger than the largest county, as well as having larger schools, the rounds are: school, sector (a borough, roughly), city and national. From the first two rounds the advancing pupils are chosen using a minimum grade threshold (usually 8.00/10.00). From the city/county round advance the top five (fewer in certain cases), with a playoff round organised if necessary. The national round offers fifteen medals (five of each colour). A team (plus reserve) is selected from the medal winners, usually following a playoff round.\n\nRussia has very extensive system of selecting and training participants for IMO. Different aspects of solving mathematical problems are studied and revealed: combinatorics, logics, structural arrangement and proofs. All problems are evaluated from 7 points. Top participants obtain certificates of 3 degrees (\"1st\", \"2nd\" and \"3rd diploma\") and often additional \"commendable certificates\". Totally up to half of participants (in the last 3 rounds) gain diplomas.\n\nThe official rounds (each picking about 1/3 top of the previous) are: School, Borough, Region, Okrug (a district, roughly) and national. More details:\n\nIn South Africa those who would be members of the team must pass through a nationwide talent search by correspondence, after which the top fifty or so are selected for a camp (usually in the December holidays) at Stellenbosch University. A number of rounds of monthly problem sets are issued by the University of Cape Town which are taken into consideration, along with the camp marks to select the top fifteen/sixteen to go to a final selection camp at Rhodes University, Grahamstown or more recently the University of the Free State, Bloemfontein in April. A final training camp takes place at the University of Cape Town or more recently, the University of Pretoria just before the IMO. The Asian Pacific Mathematics Olympiad has been used informally as a test, along with an IMO selection test written at the schools of the top fifteen in the event of indecision.\n\nIn Spain there are two rounds. The first one is held in each university district. There are two written tests, in which six or eight problems are to be solved, depending on the region. The first three participants in each district go to the national round. This one also consists of two written tests, three and half hours long each, with a total of six problems. The top six scorers go onto the International Olympiad.\n\nIn Sweden, a mathematics contest called \"Skolornas Matematiktävling\" is held every autumn. Those who qualify to the finale are invited to participate in a correspondence course in problem solving as well as the Nordic Mathematical Contest. From the combined results of the qualification round, the correspondence course and the finale and NMC, the six highest achievers of the Swedish finalists are invited to join the Swedish IMO team.\n\nIn Taiwan, the selection process consists of three sessions, starting from April to the mid of May. Students who rank among the top 25 in the APMO can participate the first session. During each session students will be tested by six IMO-style problems, and top six students will be selected as the members of the Taiwanese IMO team. The training sessions will be held during May and June.\n\nIn Thailand, the selection of the IMO representatives is the responsibility of the organization \"The Promotion of Academic Olympiad and The Development of Science Education Foundation\". There are many branches of this organization around the country. At the end of August, a 30-question exam is open to all high school students to select 200 students to join a camp in each branch of the country in October for promoting mathematics skills, known in Thailand as \"POSN Camp 1\". The topics include Algebra, Geometry, Number Theory, Combinatorics and Inequality. After the camp, an exam is given in each of the preceding topics to evaluate the skills. A number of students, usually 50 or 100, are selected to join another camp in March, known in Thailand as \"POSN Camp 2\". The topics include Algebra, Geometry, Number Theory and Combinatorics in an advanced level, and Functional Equation. After the camp, an exam is given and 18 students are selected from each branch of the country to compete in the Thailand Mathematical Olympiad. Anyone with gold medal will continue to the camp known as \"IPST Camp 1\", and an exam is given, and some are selected to \"IPST Camp 2\", finally, only 6 students will compete in the International Mathematical Olympiad.\n\nIn the UK, selection is through competitions and training camps under the auspices of the United Kingdom Mathematics Trust, starting with the multiple-choice Senior Mathematical Challenge (SMC). The SMC is followed by the British Mathematical Olympiad (BMO), held in two rounds, but candidates who did not take part in the SMC or did not achieve the qualifying score may enter the BMO on payment of an entry fee and so be considered for the IMO team. After the two rounds of the BMO, 20 potential team members, chosen primarily based on BMO results, are invited to a training and selection camp held in Trinity College, Cambridge, during which further examinations are held, allowing the number of potential team members to be reduced to eight or nine. A final camp is subsequently held at Oundle School, after which six students are chosen as the team and the remaining two or three as reserves. In addition to this formal selection process, there is further training during the year for a squad of potential team members, including the 'Advanced Mentoring Scheme', practice exams and an annual training camp in Hungary; information from exams at the Hungary camp may be considered in selection where available.\n\nIn the United States, the team is selected through the American Mathematics Competitions, which are open to all high school students. Top scorers on the USAMO go to a training camp, where the top 25 or so (the number varies from 18 to almost 30) non-seniors from the result of a TST are tested over the course of the year with the APMO, RMM, USA TST, and next year's USAMO.(ELMO and TSTST in June and July are also two measurements)\n\nVietnam has very extensive system of selecting and training participants for IMO. Different aspects of solving mathematical problems are studied and revealed: combinatorics, logics, structural arrangement and proofs. The first official rounds are: School (\"Trường\"), District (\"Quận\"), Province (\"Tỉnh\") or Municipality (\"Thành phố trực thuộc trung ương\"), and National (\"Quốc gia\"). For some schools, the Province Round is equal to their School round. The National Round is often called the Vietnam Mathematical Olympiad (VMO). After VMO, the top 40 scorers will participate in the last round, the Vietnam Team Selection Test, or Vietnam TST. 6 students with the highest scores on Vietnam TST will be the 6 competitors for IMO.\n\nThere are two math associations: ATCCM (Association Tunisienne de Culture et Competitions Mathematique) and ATSM(Association Tunisienne des Sciences Mathematiques) . Each one has its own tests and have the right to choose 3 competitors for IMO.\n"}
{"id": "16340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16340", "title": "Jean-Paul Sartre", "text": "Jean-Paul Sartre\n\nJean-Paul Charles Aymard Sartre (, ; ; 21 June 1905 – 15 April 1980) was a French philosopher, playwright, novelist, political activist, biographer, and literary critic. He was one of the key figures in the philosophy of existentialism and phenomenology, and one of the leading figures in 20th-century French philosophy and Marxism. His work has also influenced sociology, critical theory, post-colonial theory, and literary studies, and continues to influence these disciplines.\n\nSartre was also noted for his open relationship with prominent feminist and fellow existentialist philosopher and writer Simone de Beauvoir. Together, Sartre and de Beauvoir challenged the cultural and social assumptions and expectations of their upbringings, which they considered bourgeois, in both lifestyle and thought. The conflict between oppressive, spiritually destructive conformity (\"mauvaise foi\", literally, \"bad faith\") and an \"authentic\" way of \"being\" became the dominant theme of Sartre's early work, a theme embodied in his principal philosophical work \"Being and Nothingness\" (\"L'Être et le Néant\", 1943). Sartre's introduction to his philosophy is his work \"Existentialism Is a Humanism\" (\"L'existentialisme est un humanisme\", 1946), originally presented as a lecture.\n\nHe was awarded the 1964 Nobel Prize in Literature despite attempting to refuse it, saying that he always declined official honours and that \"a writer should not allow himself to be turned into an institution\".\n\nJean-Paul Sartre was born on 21 June 1905 in Paris as the only child of Jean-Baptiste Sartre, an officer of the French Navy, and Anne-Marie (Schweitzer). His mother was of Alsatian origin and the first cousin of Nobel Prize laureate Albert Schweitzer, whose father Louis Théophile was the younger brother of Anne-Marie's father.\nWhen Sartre was two years old, his father died of an illness, which he most likely contracted in Indochina. Anne-Marie moved back to her parents' house in Meudon, where she raised Sartre with help from her father Charles Schweitzer, a teacher of German who taught Sartre mathematics and introduced him to classical literature at a very early age. When he was twelve, Sartre's mother remarried, and the family moved to La Rochelle, where he was frequently bullied.\n\nAs a teenager in the 1920s, Sartre became attracted to philosophy upon reading Henri Bergson's essay \"\". He attended the Cours Hattemer, a private school in Paris. He studied and earned certificates in psychology, history of philosophy, logic, general philosophy, ethics and sociology, and physics, as well as his \"\" (roughly equivalent to an MA thesis) in Paris at the École Normale Supérieure, an institution of higher education that was the alma mater for several prominent French thinkers and intellectuals. (His 1928 MA thesis under the title \"L'Image dans la vie psychologique: rôle et nature\" [\"Image in Psychological Life: Role and Nature\"] was supervised by Henri Delacroix.) It was at ENS that Sartre began his lifelong, sometimes fractious, friendship with Raymond Aron. Perhaps the most decisive influence on Sartre's philosophical development was his weekly attendance at Alexandre Kojève's seminars, which continued for a number of years.\n\nFrom his first years in the École Normale, Sartre was one of its fiercest pranksters. In 1927, his antimilitarist satirical cartoon in the revue of the school, coauthored with Georges Canguilhem, particularly upset the director Gustave Lanson. In the same year, with his comrades Nizan, Larroutis, Baillou and Herland, he organized a media prank following Charles Lindbergh's successful New York City–Paris flight; Sartre & Co. called newspapers and informed them that Lindbergh was going to be awarded an honorary École degree. Many newspapers, including \"Le Petit Parisien,\" announced the event on 25 May. Thousands, including journalists and curious spectators, showed up, unaware that what they were witnessing was a stunt involving a Lindbergh look-alike. The public's resultant outcry forced Lanson to resign.\n\nIn 1929 at the École Normale, he met Simone de Beauvoir, who studied at the Sorbonne and later went on to become a noted philosopher, writer, and feminist. The two became inseparable and lifelong companions, initiating a romantic relationship, though they were not monogamous. The first time Sartre took the agrégation, he failed. He took it a second time and virtually tied for first place with Beauvoir, although Sartre was eventually awarded first place, with Beauvoir second.\n\nSartre was drafted into the French Army from 1929 to 1931 and served as a meteorologist for some time. He later argued in 1959 that each French person was responsible for the collective crimes during the Algerian War of Independence.\n\nFrom 1931 until 1945, Sartre taught at various lycées of Le Havre (at the Lycée de Le Havre, the present-day , 1931–36), Laon (at the Lycée de Laon, 1936–37), and, finally, Paris (at the Lycée Pasteur, 1937–39, and at the Lycée Condorcet, 1941–44; see below).\n\nIn 1932, Sartre discovered \"Voyage au bout de la nuit\" by Louis-Ferdinand Céline, a book that had a remarkable influence on him.\n\nIn 1933–34, he succeeded Raymond Aron at the Institut français d'Allemagne in Berlin where he studied Edmund Husserl's phenomenological philosophy. Aron had already advised him in 1930 to read Emmanuel Levinas's \"Théorie de l'intuition dans la phénoménologie de Husserl\" (\"The Theory of Intuition in Husserl's Phenomenology\").\n\nThe Neo-Hegelian revival led by Alexandre Kojève and Jean Hyppolite in the 1930s inspired a whole generation of French thinkers, including Sartre, to discover Hegel's \"Phenomenology of Spirit\".\n\nIn 1939 Sartre was drafted into the French army, where he served as a meteorologist. He was captured by German troops in 1940 in Padoux, and he spent nine months as a prisoner of war—in Nancy and finally in , Trier, where he wrote his first theatrical piece, \"Barionà, fils du tonnerre\", a drama concerning Christmas. It was during this period of confinement that Sartre read Martin Heidegger's \"Being and Time\", later to become a major influence on his own essay on phenomenological ontology. Because of poor health (he claimed that his poor eyesight and exotropia affected his balance) Sartre was released in April 1941. According to other sources, he escaped after a medical visit to the ophthalmologist. Given civilian status, he recovered his teaching position at Lycée Pasteur near Paris, settled at the Hotel Mistral. In October 1941 he was given a position at Lycée Condorcet in Paris, replacing a Jewish teacher who had been forbidden to teach by Vichy law.\nAfter coming back to Paris in May 1941, he participated in the founding of the underground group \"Socialisme et Liberté\" (\"Socialism and Liberty\") with other writers Simone de Beauvoir, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Jean-Toussaint Desanti, Dominique Desanti, Jean Kanapa, and École Normale students. In spring of 1941, Sartre suggested with \"cheerful ferocity\" at a meeting that the \"Socialisme et Liberté\" assassinate prominent war collaborators like Marcel Déat, but de Beauvoir noted his idea was rejected as \"none of us felt qualified to make bombs or hurl grenades\". The British historian Ian Ousby observed that the French always had far more hatred for collaborators than they did for the Germans, noting it was French people like Déat that Sartre wanted to assassinate rather than the military governor of France, General Otto von Stülpnagel, and the popular slogan always was \"Death to Laval!\" rather than \"Death to Hitler!\". In August Sartre and de Beauvoir went to the French Riviera seeking the support of André Gide and André Malraux. However, both Gide and Malraux were undecided, and this may have been the cause of Sartre's disappointment and discouragement. \"Socialisme et liberté\" soon dissolved and Sartre decided to write instead of being involved in active resistance. He then wrote \"Being and Nothingness\", \"The Flies\", and \"No Exit\", none of which were censored by the Germans, and also contributed to both legal and illegal literary magazines.\n\nIn his essay \"Paris under the Occupation\", Sartre wrote about the \"correct\" behavior of the Germans had entrapped too many Parisians into complicity with the occupation, accepting what was unnatural as natural, writing:\n\nThe Germans did not stride, revolver in hand, through the streets. They did not force civilians to make way for them on the pavement. They would offer seats to old ladies on the Metro. They showed great fondness for children and would pat them on the cheek. They had been told to behave correctly and being well-disciplined, they tried shyly and conscientiously to do so. Some of them even displayed a naive kindness which could find no practical expression.\n\nSartre noted when Wehrmacht soldiers asked Parisians politely in their German-accented French for directions, people usually felt embarrassed and ashamed as they tried their best to help out the Wehrmacht which led Sartre to remark \"We could not be \"natural\"\". French was a language widely taught in German schools and most Germans could speak at least some French. Sartre himself always found it difficult when a Wehrmacht soldier asked him for directions, usually saying he did not know where it was that the soldier wanted to go, but still felt uncomfortable as the very act of speaking to the Wehrmacht meant he had been complicit in the Occupation. Ousby wrote: \"But, in however humble a fashion, everyone still had to decide how they were going to cope with life in a fragmenting society ... So Sartre's worries ... about how to react when a German soldier stopped him in the street and asked politely for directions were not as fussily inconsequential as they might sound at first. They were emblematic of how the dilemmas of the Occupation presented themselves in daily life\". Sartre wrote the very \"correctness\" of the Germans caused moral corruption in many people who used the \"correct\" behavior of the Germans as an excuse for passivity, and the very act of simply trying to live one's day-to-day existence without challenging the occupation aided the \"New Order in Europe\", which depended upon the passivity of ordinary people to accomplish its goals.\n\nThroughout the occupation, it was German policy to plunder France and food shortages were always a major problem as the majority of food from the French countryside went to Germany. Sartre wrote about the \"languid existence\" of the Parisians as people waited obsessively for the one weekly arrival of trucks bringing food from the countryside that the Germans allowed, writing about how: \"Paris would grow peaked and yawn with hunger under the empty sky. Cut off from the rest of the world, fed only through the pity or some ulterior motive, the town led a purely abstract and symbolic life\". Sartre himself lived on a diet of rabbits sent to him by a friend of de Beauvior living in Anjou. The rabbits were usually in an advanced state of decay full of maggots, and despite being hungry, Sartre once threw out one rabbit as uneatable, saying it had more maggots in it than meat. Sartre also remarked on conversations at the Café de Flore between intellectuals had changed, as the fear that one of them might be a \"mouche\" (informer) or a writer of the \"corbeau\" (anonymous denunciatory letters) meant that no-one really said what they meant anymore, imposing self-censorship. Sartre and his friends at the Café de Flore had reasons for their fear; by September 1940, the \"Abwehr\" alone had already recruited 32,000 French people to work as \"mouches\" while by 1942 the Paris \"Kommandantur\" was receiving an average of 1,500 letters/per day sent by the \"corbeaux\".\n\nSartre wrote under the occupation Paris had become a \"sham\", resembling the empty wine bottles displayed in shop windows as all of the wine had been exported to Germany, looking like the old Paris, but hollowed out, as what had made Paris special was gone. Paris had almost no cars on the streets during the occupation as the oil went to Germany while the Germans imposed a nightly curfew, which led Sartre to remark that Paris \"was peopled by the absent\". Sartre also noted that people began to disappear under the occupation writing about how:\n\nOne day you might phone a friend and the phone would ring for a long time in an empty flat. You would go round and ring the doorbell, but no-one would answer it. If the \"concierge\" forced the door, you would find two chairs standing close together in the hall with the fag-ends of German cigarettes on the floor between their legs. If the wife or mother of the man who had vanished had been present at his arrest, she would tell you that he had been taken away by very polite Germans, like those who asked the way in the street. And when she went to ask what had happened to them at the offices in the Avenue Foch or the Rue des Saussaies she would be politely received and sent away with comforting words\" [No. 11 Rue des Saussaies was the headquarters of the Gestapo in Paris].\n\nSartre wrote the \"feldgrau\" (\"field grey\") uniforms of the Wehrmacht and the green uniforms of the Order Police which had seemed so alien in 1940 had become accepted, as people were numbed into accepting what Sartre called \"a pale, dull green, unobtrusive strain, which the eye almost expected to find among the dark clothes of the civilians\". Under the occupation, the French often called the Germans \"les autres\" (\"the others\"), which inspired Sartre's aphorism in his play \"Huis clos\" (\"No Exit\") of \"l'enfer, c'est les Autres\" (\"Hell is other people\"). Sartre intended the line \"l'enfer, c'est les Autres\" at least in part to be a dig at the German occupiers.\n\nAfter August 1944 and the Liberation of Paris, he wrote \"Anti-Semite and Jew\". In the book he tries to explain the etiology of \"hate\" by analyzing antisemitic hate. Sartre was a very active contributor to \"Combat\", a newspaper created during the clandestine period by Albert Camus, a philosopher and author who held similar beliefs. Sartre and de Beauvoir remained friends with Camus until 1951, with the publication of Camus's \"The Rebel\". Later, while Sartre was labeled by some authors as a resistant, the French philosopher and resistant Vladimir Jankelevitch criticized Sartre's lack of political commitment during the German occupation, and interpreted his further struggles for liberty as an attempt to redeem himself. According to Camus, Sartre was a writer who resisted; not a resister who wrote.\n\nIn 1945, after the war ended, Sartre moved to an apartment on the rue Bonaparte which was where he was to produce most of his subsequent work, and where he lived until 1962. It was from there that he helped establish a quarterly literary and political review, \"Les Temps modernes\" (\"Modern Times\"), in part to popularize his thought. He ceased teaching and devoted his time to writing and political activism. He would draw on his war experiences for his great trilogy of novels, \"Les Chemins de la Liberté\" (\"The Roads to Freedom\") (1945–1949).\n\nThe first period of Sartre's career, defined in large part by \"Being and Nothingness\" (1943), gave way to a second period—when the world was perceived as split into communist and capitalist blocs—of highly publicized political involvement. Sartre tended to glorify the Resistance after the war as the uncompromising expression of morality in action, and recalled that the \"résistants\" were a \"band of brothers\" who had enjoyed \"real freedom\" in a way that did not exist before nor after the war. Sartre was \"merciless\" in attacking anyone who had collaborated or remained passive during the German occupation; for instance, criticizing Camus for signing an appeal to spare the collaborationist writer Robert Brasillach from being executed. His 1948 play \"Les mains sales\" (\"Dirty Hands\") in particular explored the problem of being a politically \"engaged\" intellectual. He embraced Marxism but did not join the Communist Party. For a time in the late 1940s, Sartre described French nationalism as \"provincial\" and in a 1949 essay called for a \"United States of Europe\". In an essay published in the June 1949 edition of the journal \"Politique étrangère\", Sartre wrote: \n\nIf we want French civilization to survive, it must be fitted into the framework of a great European civilization. Why? I have said that civilization is the reflection on a shared situation. In Italy, in France, in Benelux, in Sweden, in Norway, in Germany, in Greece, in Austria, everywhere we find the same problems and the same dangers ... But this cultural polity has prospects only as elements of a policy which defends Europe's cultural autonomy vis-à-vis America and the Soviet Union, but also its political and economic autonomy, with the aim of making Europe a single force between the blocs, not a third bloc, but an autonomous force which will refuse to allow itself to be torn into shreds between American optimism and Russian scientificism.\n\nAbout the Korean War, Sartre wrote: \"I have no doubt that the South Korean feudalists and the American imperialists have promoted this war. But I do not doubt either that it was begun by the North Koreans\". In July 1950, Sartre wrote in \"Les Temps Modernes\" about his and de Beauvoir's attitude to the Soviet Union:\n\nAs we were neither members of the [Communist] party nor its avowed sympathizers, it was not our duty to write about Soviet labor camps; we were free to remain aloof from the quarrel over the nature of this system, provided that no events of sociological significance had occurred.\n\nSartre held that the Soviet Union was a \"revolutionary\" state working for the betterment of humanity and could be criticized only for failing to live up to its own ideals, but that critics had to take in mind that the Soviet state needed to defend itself against a hostile world; by contrast Sartre held that the failures of \"bourgeois\" states were due to their innate shortcomings. The Swiss journalist François Bondy wrote that, based on a reading of Sartre's numerous essays, speeches and interviews \"a simple basic pattern never fails to emerge: social change must be comprehensive and revolutionary\" and the parties that promote the revolutionary charges \"may be criticized, but only by those who completely identify themselves with its purpose, its struggle and its road to power\", deeming Sartre's position to be \"existentialist\".\n\nWhile a Marxist, Sartre attacked what he saw as abuses of freedom and human rights by the Soviet Union. In 1954, Sartre visited the Soviet Union, which he stated he found a \"complete freedom of criticism\" while condemning the United States for sinking into \"prefascism\". Sartre wrote about those Soviet writers expelled from the Soviet Writers' Union \"still had the opportunity of rehabilitating themselves by writing better books\". He was one of the first French journalists to expose the existence of the labor camps, and vehemently opposed the invasion of Hungary, Russian anti-Semitism, and the execution of dissidents. About the Hungarian revolt of 1956, Sartre wrote: \"In spite of everything, the Rakosi regime stood for socialization. Only it did it badly and that is worse than not to do so at all\". Sartre came to admire the Polish leader Władysław Gomułka, a man who favored a \"Polish road to socialism\" and wanted more independence for Poland, but was loyal to the Soviet Union because of the Oder-Neisse line issue. Sartre's newspaper \"Les Temps Modernes\" devoted a number of special issues in 1957 and 1958 to Poland under Gomułka, praising him for his reforms. Bondy wrote of the notable contradiction between Sarte's \"ultra Bolshevism\" as he expressed admiration for the Chinese leader Mao Zedong as the man who lead the oppressed masses of the Third World into revolution while also praising more moderate Communist leaders like Gomułka.\n\nAs an anti-colonialist, Sartre took a prominent role in the struggle against French rule in Algeria, and the use of torture and concentration camps by the French in Algeria. He became an eminent supporter of the FLN in the Algerian War and was one of the signatories of the \"Manifeste des 121\". Consequently, Sartre became a domestic target of the paramilitary Organisation armée secrète (OAS), escaping two bomb attacks in the early '60s. (He had an Algerian mistress, Arlette Elkaïm, who became his adopted daughter in 1965.) He opposed U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War and, along with Bertrand Russell and others, organized a tribunal intended to expose U.S. war crimes, which became known as the Russell Tribunal in 1967.\nHis work after Stalin's death, the \"Critique de la raison dialectique\" (\"Critique of Dialectical Reason\"), appeared in 1960 (a second volume appearing posthumously). In the \"Critique\" Sartre set out to give Marxism a more vigorous intellectual defense than it had received until then; he ended by concluding that Marx's notion of \"class\" as an objective entity was fallacious. Sartre's emphasis on the humanist values in the early works of Marx led to a dispute with a leading leftist intellectual in France in the 1960s, Louis Althusser, who claimed that the ideas of the young Marx were decisively superseded by the \"scientific\" system of the later Marx. In the late 1950s, Sartre began to argue that the European working classes were too apolitical to carry out the revolution predicated by Marx, and influenced by Frantz Fanon stated to argue it was the impoverished masses of the Third World, the \"real damned of the earth\", who would carry out the revolution. A major theme of Sarte's political essays in the 1960s was of his disgust with the \"Americanization\" of the French working class who would much rather watch American TV shows dubbed into French than agitate for a revolution.\n\nSartre went to Cuba in the 1960s to meet Fidel Castro and spoke with Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara. After Guevara's death, Sartre would declare him to be \"not only an intellectual but also the most complete human being of our age\" and the \"era's most perfect man\". Sartre would also compliment Guevara by professing that \"he lived his words, spoke his own actions and his story and the story of the world ran parallel\". However he stood against the persecution of gays by Castro's régime, which he compared to Nazi persecution of the Jews, and said: \"In Cuba there are no Jews, but there are homosexuals\".\n\nDuring a collective hunger strike in 1974, Sartre visited Red Army Faction leader Andreas Baader in Stammheim Prison and criticized the harsh conditions of imprisonment. Towards the end of his life, Sartre became an anarchist.\n\nIn 1964 Sartre renounced literature in a witty and sardonic account of the first ten years of his life, \"Les Mots\" (\"The Words\"). The book is an ironic counterblast to Marcel Proust, whose reputation had unexpectedly eclipsed that of André Gide (who had provided the model of \"littérature engagée\" for Sartre's generation). Literature, Sartre concluded, functioned ultimately as a bourgeois substitute for real commitment in the world. In October 1964, Sartre was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature but he declined it. He was the first Nobel laureate to voluntarily decline the prize, and remains one of only two laureates to do so. According to Lars Gyllensten, in the book \"Minnen, bara minnen\" (\"Memories, Only Memories\") published in 2000, Sartre himself or someone close to him got in touch with the Swedish Academy in 1975 with a request for the prize money, but was refused. In 1945, he had refused the Légion d'honneur. The Nobel prize was announced on 22 October 1964; on 14 October, Sartre had written a letter to the Nobel Institute, asking to be removed from the list of nominees, and warning that he would not accept the prize if awarded, but the letter went unread; on 23 October, \"Le Figaro\" published a statement by Sartre explaining his refusal. He said he did not wish to be \"transformed\" by such an award, and did not want to take sides in an East vs. West cultural struggle by accepting an award from a prominent Western cultural institution. Nevertheless he was that year's prizewinner. After being awarded the prize he tried to escape the media by hiding in the house of Simone's sister Hélène de Beauvoir in Goxwiller, Alsace.\nThough his name was then a household word (as was \"existentialism\" during the tumultuous 1960s), Sartre remained a simple man with few possessions, actively committed to causes until the end of his life, such as the May 1968 strikes in Paris during the summer of 1968 during which he was arrested for civil disobedience. President Charles de Gaulle intervened and pardoned him, commenting that \"you don't arrest Voltaire\".\n\nIn 1975, when asked how he would like to be remembered, Sartre replied:\n\nI would like <nowiki>[people]</nowiki> to remember \"Nausea\", <nowiki>[my plays]</nowiki> \"No Exit\" and \"The Devil and the Good Lord,\" and then my two philosophical works, more particularly the second one, \"Critique of Dialectical Reason\". Then my essay on Genet, \"Saint Genet\". ... If these are remembered, that would be quite an achievement, and I don't ask for more. As a man, if a certain Jean-Paul Sartre is remembered, I would like people to remember the milieu or historical situation in which I lived, ... how I lived in it, in terms of all the aspirations which I tried to gather up within myself.\n\nSartre's physical condition deteriorated, partially because of the merciless pace of work (and the use of amphetamine) he put himself through during the writing of the \"Critique\" and a massive analytical biography of Gustave Flaubert (\"The Family Idiot\"), both of which remained unfinished. He suffered from hypertension, and became almost completely blind in 1973. Sartre was a notorious chain smoker, which could also have contributed to the deterioration of his health.\n\nSartre died on 15 April 1980 in Paris from edema of the lung. He had not wanted to be buried at Père-Lachaise Cemetery between his mother and stepfather, so it was arranged that he be buried at Montparnasse Cemetery. At his funeral on Saturday, 19 April, 50,000 Parisians descended onto Boulevard Montparnasse to accompany Sartre's cortege. The funeral started at \"the hospital at 2:00 p.m., then filed through the fourteenth arrondissement, past all Sartre's haunts, and entered the cemetery through the gate on the Boulevard Edgar Quinet\". Sartre was initially buried in a temporary grave to the left of the cemetery gate. Four days later the body was disinterred for cremation at Père-Lachaise Cemetery, and his ashes were reburied at the permanent site in Montparnasse Cemetery, to the right of the cemetery gate.\n\nSartre's primary idea is that people, as humans, are \"condemned to be free\". This theory relies upon his position that there is no creator, and is illustrated using the example of the paper cutter. Sartre says that if one considered a paper cutter, one would assume that the creator would have had a plan for it: an essence. Sartre said that human beings have no essence before their existence because there is no Creator. Thus: \"existence precedes essence\". This forms the basis for his assertion that because one cannot explain one's own actions and behavior by referring to any specific human nature, they are necessarily fully responsible for those actions. \"We are left alone, without excuse.\" \"We can act without being determined by our past which is always separated from us.\"\n\nSartre maintained that the concepts of authenticity and individuality have to be earned but not learned. We need to experience \"death consciousness\" so as to wake up ourselves as to what is really important; the authentic in our lives which is life experience, not knowledge. Death draws the final point when we as beings cease to live for ourselves and permanently become objects that exist only for the outside world. In this way death emphasizes the burden of our free, individual existence.\n\nAs a junior lecturer at the Lycée du Havre in 1938, Sartre wrote the novel \"La Nausée\" (\"Nausea\"), which serves in some ways as a manifesto of existentialism and remains one of his most famous books. Taking a page from the German phenomenological movement, he believed that our ideas are the product of experiences of real-life situations, and that novels and plays can well describe such fundamental experiences, having equal value to discursive essays for the elaboration of philosophical theories such as existentialism. With such purpose, this novel concerns a dejected researcher (Roquentin) in a town similar to Le Havre who becomes starkly conscious of the fact that inanimate objects and situations remain absolutely indifferent to his existence. As such, they show themselves to be resistant to whatever significance human consciousness might perceive in them.\n\nHe also took inspiration from phenomenologist epistemology, explained by Franz Adler in this way: \"Man chooses and makes himself by acting. Any action implies the judgment that he is right under the circumstances not only for the actor, but also for everybody else in similar circumstances.\"\n\nThis indifference of \"things in themselves\" (closely linked with the later notion of \"being-in-itself\" in his \"Being and Nothingness\") has the effect of highlighting all the more the freedom Roquentin has to perceive and act in the world; everywhere he looks, he finds situations imbued with meanings which bear the stamp of his existence. Hence the \"nausea\" referred to in the title of the book; all that he encounters in his everyday life is suffused with a pervasive, even horrible, taste—specifically, his freedom. The book takes the term from Friedrich Nietzsche's \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", where it is used in the context of the often nauseating quality of existence. No matter how much Roquentin longs for something else or something different, he cannot get away from this harrowing evidence of his engagement with the world.\n\nThe novel also acts as a terrifying realization of some of Immanuel Kant's fundamental ideas about freedom; Sartre uses the idea of the autonomy of the will (that morality is derived from our ability to choose in reality; the ability to choose being derived from human freedom; embodied in the famous saying \"Condemned to be free\") as a way to show the world's indifference to the individual. The freedom that Kant exposed is here a strong burden, for the freedom to act towards objects is ultimately useless, and the practical application of Kant's ideas proves to be bitterly rejected.\n\nAlso important is Sartre's analysis of psychological concepts, including his suggestion that consciousness exists as something other than itself, and that the conscious awareness of things is not limited to their knowledge: for Sartre intentionality applies to the emotions as well as to cognitions, to desires as well as to perceptions. \"When an external object is perceived, consciousness is also conscious of itself, even if consciousness is not its own object: it is a non-positional consciousness of itself.\"\n\nWhile the broad focus of Sartre's life revolved around the notion of human freedom, he began a sustained intellectual participation in more public matters towards the end of the Second World War, around 1944-45. Before World War II, he was content with the role of an apolitical liberal intellectual: \"Now teaching at a lycée in Laon ... Sartre made his headquarters the Dome café at the crossing of Montparnasse and Raspail boulevards. He attended plays, read novels, and dined <nowiki>[with]</nowiki> women. He wrote. And he was published.\" Sartre and his lifelong companion, de Beauvoir, existed, in her words, where \"the world about us was a mere backdrop against which our private lives were played out\".\n\nSartre portrayed his own pre-war situation in the character Mathieu, chief protagonist in \"The Age of Reason\", which was completed during Sartre's first year as a soldier in the Second World War. By forging Mathieu as an absolute rationalist, analyzing every situation, and functioning entirely on reason, he removed any strands of authentic content from his character and as a result, Mathieu could \"recognize no allegiance except to [him]self\", though he realized that without \"responsibility for my own existence, it would seem utterly absurd to go on existing\". Mathieu's commitment was only to himself, never to the outside world. Mathieu was restrained from action each time because he had no reasons for acting. Sartre then, for these reasons, was not compelled to participate in the Spanish Civil War, and it took the invasion of his own country to motivate him into action and to provide a crystallization of these ideas. It was the war that gave him a purpose beyond himself, and the atrocities of the war can be seen as the turning point in his public stance.\n\nThe war opened Sartre's eyes to a political reality he had not yet understood until forced into continual engagement with it: \"the world itself destroyed Sartre's illusions about isolated self-determining individuals and made clear his own personal stake in the events of the time.\" Returning to Paris in 1941 he formed the \"Socialisme et Liberté\" resistance group. In 1943, after the group disbanded, Sartre joined a writers' Resistance group, in which he remained an active participant until the end of the war. He continued to write ferociously, and it was due to this \"crucial experience of war and captivity that Sartre began to try to build up a positive moral system and to express it through literature\".\n\nThe symbolic initiation of this new phase in Sartre's work is packaged in the introduction he wrote for a new journal, \"Les Temps modernes\", in October 1945. Here he aligned the journal, and thus himself, with the Left and called for writers to express their political commitment. Yet, this alignment was indefinite, directed more to the concept of the Left than a specific party of the Left.\n\nSartre's philosophy lent itself to his being a public intellectual. He envisaged culture as a very fluid concept; neither pre-determined, nor definitely finished; instead, in true existential fashion, \"culture was always conceived as a process of continual invention and re-invention.\" This marks Sartre, the intellectual, as a pragmatist, willing to move and shift stance along with events. He did not dogmatically follow a cause other than the belief in human freedom, preferring to retain a pacifist's objectivity. It is this overarching theme of freedom that means his work \"subverts the bases for distinctions among the disciplines\". Therefore, he was able to hold knowledge across a vast array of subjects: \"the international world order, the political and economic organisation of contemporary society, especially France, the institutional and legal frameworks that regulate the lives of ordinary citizens, the educational system, the media networks that control and disseminate information. Sartre systematically refused to keep quiet about what he saw as inequalities and injustices in the world.\"\n\nSartre always sympathized with the Left, and supported the French Communist Party (PCF) until the 1956 Soviet invasion of Hungary. Following the Liberation the PCF were infuriated by Sartre's philosophy, which appeared to lure young French men and women away from the ideology of communism and into Sartre's own existentialism. From 1956 onwards Sartre rejected the claims of the PCF to represent the French working classes, objecting to its \"authoritarian tendencies\". In the late 1960s Sartre supported the Maoists, a movement that rejected the authority of established communist parties. However, despite aligning with the Maoists, Sartre said after the May events: \"If one rereads all my books, one will realize that I have not changed profoundly, and that I have always remained an anarchist.\" He would later explicitly allow himself to be called an anarchist.\n\nIn the aftermath of a war that had for the first time properly engaged Sartre in political matters, he set forth a body of work which \"reflected on virtually every important theme of his early thought and began to explore alternative solutions to the problems posed there\". The greatest difficulties that he and all public intellectuals of the time faced were the increasing technological aspects of the world that were outdating the printed word as a form of expression. In Sartre's opinion, the \"traditional bourgeois literary forms remain innately superior\", but there is \"a recognition that the new technological 'mass media' forms must be embraced\" if Sartre's ethical and political goals as an authentic, committed intellectual are to be achieved: the demystification of bourgeois political practices and the raising of the consciousness, both political and cultural, of the working class.\n\nThe struggle for Sartre was against the monopolising moguls who were beginning to take over the media and destroy the role of the intellectual. His attempts to reach a public were mediated by these powers, and it was often these powers he had to campaign against. He was skilled enough, however, to circumvent some of these issues by his interactive approach to the various forms of media, advertising his radio interviews in a newspaper column for example, and vice versa.\n\nThe role of a public intellectual can lead to the individual placing himself in danger as he engages with disputed topics. In Sartre's case, this was witnessed in June 1961, when a plastic bomb exploded in the entrance of his apartment building. His public support of Algerian self-determination at the time had led Sartre to become a target of the campaign of terror that mounted as the colonists' position deteriorated. A similar occurrence took place the next year and he had begun to receive threatening letters from Oran, Algeria.\n\nSartre wrote successfully in a number of literary modes and made major contributions to literary criticism and literary biography. His plays are richly symbolic and serve as a means of conveying his philosophy. The best-known, \"Huis-clos\" (\"No Exit\"), contains the famous line \"L'enfer, c'est les autres\", usually translated as \"Hell is other people.\" Aside from the impact of \"Nausea\", Sartre's major work of fiction was \"The Roads to Freedom\" trilogy which charts the progression of how World War II affected Sartre's ideas. In this way, \"Roads to Freedom\" presents a less theoretical and more practical approach to existentialism.\n\nJohn Huston got Sartre to script his film \"\". However it was too long and Sartre withdrew his name from the film's credits. Nevertheless, many key elements from Sartre's script survive in the finished film.\nDespite their similarities as polemicists, novelists, adapters, and playwrights, Sartre's literary work has been counterposed, often pejoratively, to that of Camus in the popular imagination. In 1948 the Roman Catholic Church placed Sartre's oeuvre on the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" (List of Prohibited Books).\n\nSome philosophers argue that Sartre's thought is contradictory. Specifically, they believe that Sartre makes metaphysical arguments despite his claim that his philosophical views ignore metaphysics. Herbert Marcuse criticized \"Being and Nothingness\" for projecting anxiety and meaninglessness onto the nature of existence itself: \"Insofar as Existentialism is a philosophical doctrine, it remains an idealistic doctrine: it hypostatizes specific historical conditions of human existence into ontological and metaphysical characteristics. Existentialism thus becomes part of the very ideology which it attacks, and its radicalism is illusory.\" In \"Letter on Humanism\", Heidegger criticized Sartre's existentialism:\n\nExistentialism says existence precedes essence. In this statement he is taking \"existentia\" and \"essentia\" according to their metaphysical meaning, which, from Plato's time on, has said that \"essentia\" precedes \"existentia\". Sartre reverses this statement. But the reversal of a metaphysical statement remains a metaphysical statement. With it, he stays with metaphysics, in oblivion of the truth of Being.\n\nThe philosophers Richard Wollheim and Thomas Baldwin have argued that Sartre's attempt to show that Sigmund Freud's theory of the unconscious is mistaken was based on a misinterpretation of Freud. Richard Webster considers Sartre one of many modern thinkers who have reconstructed Judaeo-Christian orthodoxies in secular form.\n\nIntellectuals associated with the political right allege that Sartre's politics are indicative of authoritarianism. Brian C. Anderson denounced Sartre as an apologist for tyranny and terror and a supporter of Stalinism, Maoism, and Castro's regime in Cuba. The historian Paul Johnson asserted that Sartre's ideas had inspired the Khmer Rouge leadership: \"The events in Cambodia in the 1970s, in which between one-fifth and one-third of the nation was starved to death or murdered, were entirely the work of a group of intellectuals, who were for the most part pupils and admirers of Jean-Paul Sartre – 'Sartre's Children' as I call them.\"\n\nSartre, who stated in his preface to Frantz Fanon's \"The Wretched of the Earth\" that, \"To shoot down a European is to kill two birds with one stone, to destroy an oppressor and the man he oppresses at the same time: there remains a dead man and a free man,\" has been criticized by Anderson and Michael Walzer for supporting the killing of European civilians by the FLN during the Algerian War. Walzer suggests that Sartre, a European, was a hypocrite for not volunteering to be killed.\n\nThe critic, poet, essayist and philosopher Clive James excoriated Sartre in his book of mini biographies \"Cultural Amnesia\" (2007). James attacks Sartre's philosophy as being \"all a pose\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58847354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58847354", "title": "Joan Crowfoot Payne", "text": "Joan Crowfoot Payne\n\nJoan Crowfoot Payne (16 January 1912 – 4 October 2002) was a British archaeologist specialising in the study of lithics (stone tools and chipped stone) from the Ancient Near East and worked as Cataloguer of the Ancient Egyptian collection at the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford.\n\nJoan Crowfoot Payne was born in Giza, Egypt, in 1912 to the archaeologists John Winter Crowfoot (1873-1959) and Grace Mary Crowfoot (1877-1957). Her older sister was Nobel prize winning chemist Dorothy Hodgkin. From 1929-1932 she attended the London School of Medicine for Women but was unable to complete her medical training due to an eye condition; from 1932–3 she attended the University of Cambridge as a Research Student on the Diploma Course in Archaeology, although her lack of knowledge of Latin meant she could not sit the qualifying exam for the course.\n\nPayne participated in archaeological excavations in the U.K., Palestine, and Iraq as an expert in the study of lithics (chipped stone), working with archaeologists including her father John Winter Crowfoot, Dorothy Garrod, John Garstang, Mortimer Wheeler, and Kathleen Kenyon. In 1957 she was appointed to the post of Cataloguer in the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, with responsibility for cataloguing the Egyptian and Nubian collections, resulting in her 1993 publication of the \"Catalogue of the Predynastic Egyptian Collection in the Ashmolean Museum\"; she was also involved in creating displays of lithic material in the Egyptian and Near Eastern galleries. Payne collaborated with Elise Jenny Baumgartel on the publication of Flinders Petrie's excavations at Naqada, publishing an update to Baumgartel's \"Petrie's Naqada Excavations: A supplement\" (1970). In 1965 she was promoted to a Departmental Assistantship at the Ashmolean. She retired in 1979 and a year later was awarded an Honorary Master of Arts degree by the University of Oxford. Her papers are in the Griffith Institute Archive in Oxford.\n\n"}
{"id": "50445931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50445931", "title": "Jung v. Association of American Medical Colleges", "text": "Jung v. Association of American Medical Colleges\n\nThe anti-trust class-action lawsuit Jung v. AAMC alleged collusion to prevent American trainee doctors from negotiating for better working conditions. The working conditions of medical residents often involved 80- to 100-hour workweeks. The suit had some early success, but failed when the U.S. Congress enacted a statute exempting matching programs from federal anti-trust laws.\n\nEvery year, American medical students and graduates participate along with foreign-trained physicians in a national matching plan to obtain a position in an accredited resident training program. Applicants and programs that participate in the matching plan submit rank-ordered preferences for training. A mathematical algorithm is used to place an applicant in a preferred program that also prefers the applicant.\n\nThe National Resident Matching Program, also referred to as \"The Match\", is one of several national matching plans in the United States.\n\nThe suit was launched on behalf of all current and former medical residents against defendants that oversaw and participated in the matching process as well as institutions that employed medical residents.\n\nThe three physicians who launched the suit alleged that the NRMP Matching program was an anti-competitive practice, claiming that:\n\n\nThe defendants challenged the admissibility of the lawsuit with several arguments, including a lack of jurisdiction and that the plaintiffs had not been injured. The court dismissed the cases against two defendants for lack of jurisdiction, and three because the claims of conspiracy did not involve them. The federal district court did allow the case to proceed against 17 defendants, ruling:\n\n... the Court finds that plaintiffs adequately have alleged a common agreement to displace competition in the recruitment, hiring, employment and compensation of resident physicians and to impose a scheme of restraints that has the purpose and effect of fixing, artificially depressing, standardizing and stabilizing resident physician compensation and other terms of employment among certain defendants.\n\nThe lawsuit ended when Congress enacted legislation as a rider added to an unrelated bill (the Pension Funding Equity Act) that exempted participation in a matching program from federal anti-trust laws.\n\nThe rider was called \"Confirmation of antitrust status of graduate medical resident matching programs\" (Section 207). Neither the rider nor the then-ongoing Jung v. AAMC case was debated. The rider was lobbied for by the AAMC and the American Hospital Association, and sponsored by Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire and Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts. Senators Kohl, Feingold, and Bingaman publicly criticized the way in which the rider was added.\n\nThe rider praised the 50-year-old Matching Program, saying that \"[a]ntitrust lawsuits challenging the matching process, regardless of their merit or lack thereof, have the potential to undermine this highly efficient, pro-competitive, and long standing process\" and \"would divert the scarce resources of our country's teaching hospitals and medical schools from their crucial missions of patient care, physician training, and medical research\"\n\nThe bill containing the rider was signed into law by President George W. Bush on April 8, 2004.\n\nThe new law prohibited \"using allegations related to the Match to support any antitrust claim\", retroactively. The court ruled that the plaintiff's case was dependent on allegations related to the Match. The case was dismissed under the authority of the new law.\n\n"}
{"id": "16260220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16260220", "title": "Kate Christensen", "text": "Kate Christensen\n\nKate Christensen (born August 22, 1962) is an American novelist. She won the 2008 PEN/Faulkner Award for her fourth novel, \"The Great Man\", about a painter and the three women in his life. Her previous novels are \"In the Drink\" (1999), \"Jeremy Thrane\" (2001), and \"\" (2004). Her fifth novel, \"\" (2009), was released in paperback by Vintage/Anchor in June 2010. Her sixth novel, \"\", was published in hardcover by Doubleday in June 2011. She is also the author of two food-related memoirs, \"\" (Doubleday, 2013) and \"\" (Islandport Press, 2015), which won the 2016 Maine Literary Award for memoir.\n\nShe is a graduate of Reed College and the Iowa Writers Workshop. Her essays, articles, reviews, and stories have appeared in many anthologies and periodicals, including \"The New York Times Book Review\", \"Bookforum\", \"Elle\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", Vogue, Food & Wine, Cherry Bombe, and the \"Jewish Daily Forward\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4136908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4136908", "title": "Larry McCaffery", "text": "Larry McCaffery\n\nLawrence F. \"Larry\" McCaffery Jr. (born May 13, 1946) is an America literary critic, editor, and retired professor of English and Comparative Literature at San Diego State University. His work and teaching focuses on postmodern literature, contemporary fiction, and Bruce Springsteen. He also played a role in helping to establish science fiction as a major literary genre.\n\nMcCaffery was born in 1946 in Dallas, Texas. He received his PhD in 1975, with a dissertation on the works of Robert Coover. He joined the Department of English and Comparative Literature at San Diego State University in 1976. He taught in SDSU's English Department until retiring in 2010. During his career as a professor, McCaffery took up visiting professorships at University of Nice, University of California, San Diego, Deep Springs College (where William T. Vollmann attended), Seikei University in Tokyo, Japan and was a Fulbright Lecturer at Beijing Foreign Studies University during the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. He and his wife currently reside in Borrego Springs, California.\n\nIn 1983, McCaffery published two books in the field of postmodern literary studies. The first was \"The Metafictional Muse: The Works of Coover, Gass, and Barthelme\", which explored the emergence of the \"meta-impulse\" as one of the defining features of postmodern aesthetics. The second was \"Anything Can Happen: Interviews with Contemporary American Novelists\" (with Tom LeClair), which helped identify the major innovative authors associated with postmodernism.\n\nMcCaffery went on to publish three additional collections of interviews with contemporary authors: \"Alive and Writing: Interviews with American Authors of the 1980s\" with Sinda Gregory (1986), \"Across the Wounded Galaxies: Interviews with Contemporary American Science Fiction Authors\" (1990), and \"Some Other Frequency: Interviews with Innovative American Authors\" (1995). McCaffery explains that the interviews within these works begin orally, and, after being transcribed from tape and edited by both McCaffery and the interviewee, become \"collaborative texts based on an actual conversation rather than a direct rendering of that conversation\". These works established \"avant-prof\" critic Lance Olsen to dub McCaffery as \"Guru of the Interview\"\n\nDuring his career as Professor at SDSU, McCaffery played a large role as editor of literary journals. In 1983, McCaffery arranged to have the literary journal, Fiction International move to SDSU from New York City, where it had been edited and published by Joe David Bellamy since 1973. McCaffery served as co-editor of FI with Harold Jaffe for the next decade, during which it became one of the leading publishers of radically innovative, politically charged fiction. Since the early eighties, he has also been an editor of American Book Review, and executive editor of Critique: Studies in Contemporary Fiction. McCaffery has guest-edited several special issues of other literary magazines, including Mississippi Review's landmark \"Cyberpunk Issue\".\n\nHis work \"Storming the Reality Studio\" placed science fiction and cyberpunk within the field of postmodern studies. an anthology featuring the fictional work of authors such as William Gibson, Samuel R. Delany, Don DeLillo, Kathy Acker, and Harold Jaffe, as well as non-fiction by writers such as Jean Baudrillard and Jacques Derrida. Other notable anthologies are \"\" (1993) and \"After Yesterday's Crash: The Avant-Pop Anthology\" (1997).\n\n\nMcCaffery is briefly mentioned in Raymond Federman's novel \"The Twofold Vibration\", and is mentioned throughout William T. Vollmann's book \"Imperial\". He has also been quoted in an article in \"The New Yorker\" about David Foster Wallace's legacy.\n\nHe created a theory of media/visual studies about the relation between memory, narrative, and sexuality called \"Avant-Porn,\" as claimed in his introduction to Michael Hemmingson's 2000 anthology, \"WTF: The Avant-Porn Anthology\". a true account. In the dedication to his book, \"Science Fiction After 1900: From the Steam Man to the Stars\", Brooks Landon calls McCaffery, \"Pomo's Pure Product, Cyberpunk's Critical Case Officer, Avant Pop's Main Man, and SF's Friend in the High Castle\".\n\nMcCaffery is also author of the popular \"best of\" list The . This list was written in response to Modern Library 100 Best Novels list (1999), which McCaffery saw as \"being way, way out of touch with the nature and significance of 20th century fiction\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28809786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28809786", "title": "List of Clarion Writers Workshop alumni", "text": "List of Clarion Writers Workshop alumni\n\nThis is a partial list of alumni of the Clarion Workshop, an annual writers' workshop for science fiction, fantasy, and speculative literature writers.\n\n"}
{"id": "22420624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22420624", "title": "London Knowledge Lab", "text": "London Knowledge Lab\n\nLondon Knowledge Lab was a transhumanist research centre in Bloomsbury, London. It was founded in 2004 as a collaboration between the Institute of Education and Birkbeck, University of London. It was an interdisciplinary research centre, bringing together over 50 researchers from both social sciences and computer science backgrounds. The Institute of Education and Birkbeck announced the end of their collaboration in February 2016. Both institutions are continuing the work in their own separate Knowledge Lab research centres.\n\nThe London Knowledge Lab was mainly funded by £6 million grant from the Science Research Investment Fund. In addition, it ran over 120 research projects, funded by a variety of funding bodies, including EPSRC, ESRC, Jisc, and the EU, amongst others. The Technology Enhanced Learning research programme, a major UK educational research programme, was directed from the Knowledge Lab.\n\nResearch at London Knowledge Lab focused upon three themes:<ref name=\"London Knowledge Lab / Research\">'London Knowledge Lab / Research' page. London Knowledge Lab website. Available online at: http://www.lkl.ac.uk/cms/index.php?option=com_content&task=blogcategory&id=41&Itemid=109</ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "53943880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53943880", "title": "Lucy Fischer", "text": "Lucy Fischer\n\nLucy Fischer (born 1945) is an American film studies scholar currently Distinguished Professor at University of Pittsburgh.\n\n"}
{"id": "3803010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3803010", "title": "Mark Doty", "text": "Mark Doty\n\nMark Doty (born August 10, 1953) is an American poet and memoirist. He was the winner of the National Book Award for Poetry in 2008.\n\nMark Doty was born in Maryville, Tennessee to Lawrence and Ruth Doty, with an older sister, Sarah Alice Doty. He earned a Bachelor of Arts from Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa, and received his Master of Fine Arts in creative writing from Goddard College in Plainfield, Vermont.\n\nDoty's first collection of poems, \"Turtle, Swan\", was published by David R. Godine in 1987; a second collection, \"Bethlehem in Broad Daylight\", appeared from the same publisher in 1991. \"Booklist\" described his verse as \"quiet, intimate\" and praised its original style in turning powerful young urban experience into \"an example of how we live, how we suffer and transcend suffering\".\n\nDoty's \"Tiara\" was printed in 1990 in an anthology called Poets for Life: Seventy-Six Poets Respond to AIDS. This poem critiques the way society perceived and treated homosexual AIDS sufferers. The 1980s marked the beginning of the AIDS epidemic in the United States. The Reagan administration's delayed action to fight AIDS resulted in thousands of deaths, especially among young gay men. Some believe the initial reluctance to mobilize was due to homophobia—society was, at the time, uncomfortable with gay sexuality. This poem criticizes the idea that gay men \"invite[d] their own oppression as a consequence of pleasure.\" The poem's phrase \"he asked for it\" represents this common, unsympathetic opinion about gay men with AIDS. Imagery like \"perfect stasis\" and \"body's paradise\" is used by Doty to paint a future beyond brutality and discrimination for AIDS sufferers. According to Landau, Doty's poems were \"humane and comforting narratives\" that offered hope to people living with HIV and stood in contrast to the hostile climate of the United States.\n\nHis third book of poetry, \"My Alexandria\" (University of Illinois Press, 1993), reflects the grief, perceptions and new awareness gained in the face of great and painful loss. In 1989, Doty's partner Wally Roberts tested positive for HIV. The collection, written while Roberts had not yet become ill, contemplates the prospect of mortality, desperately attempting to find some way of making the prospect of loss even momentarily bearable. \"My Alexandria\" was chosen for the National Poetry Series by Philip Levine, and won the National Book Critics Circle Award and the Los Angeles Times Book Prize. When the book was published in the U.K. by Jonathan Cape, Doty became the first American poet to win the T.S. Eliot Prize, Britain's most significant annual award for poetry.\n\nDoty had begun the poems collected in \"Atlantis\" (HarperCollins, 1995) when Roberts died in 1994. The book won the Bingham Poetry Prize and the Ambassador Book Award. \"Heaven's Coast: A Memoir\" (HarperCollins, 1996), is a meditative account of losing a loved one, and a study in grief. The book received the PEN Martha Albrand Award First Nonfiction.\n\nDoty is the author of nine books of poetry, most recently \"Deep Lane\" (W.W. Norton, 2015), a book of descents: into the earth beneath the garden, into the dark substrata of a life. He has also written essays on still life painting, objects and intimacy, and a handbook for writers. His volumes of poetry include \"Sweet Machine\" (HarperCollins, 1998), \"Source\", (HarperCollins, 2002), \"School of the Arts\" (HarperCollins, 2005) and \"Fire to Fire: New and Selected Poems\" (HarperCollins, 2008), which received the National Book Award.\n\nDoty's three memoirs include \"Heaven's Coast\", described as \"searing\" by The New York Times, is the excruciating journaling of his thoughts subsequent to hearing his lover's diagnosis with AIDS, a work \"layered\" with awarenesses like Dante's trip through hell (HarperCollins, 1996), and \"Firebird: A Memoir\", an autobiography from six to sixteen, which tells the story of his childhood in the American South and in Arizona (HarperCollins, 1999). These first two \nmemoirs received the American Library Associations Israel Fishman Non-Fiction Award. His most recent memoir, \"Dog Years\" (HarperCollins, 2005), was a New York Times Bestseller and received the Barbara Gittings Literature Award from the American Library Association in 2008.\n\nDoty's essays include \"Still Life with Oysters and Lemon\" (Beacon Press, 2001), a book-length essay about 17th-century Dutch painting and our relationships to objects, and \"The Art of Description\" (Graywolf Books, 2010), a collection of four essays in which, \"Doty considers the task of saying what you see, and the challenges of rendering experience through language.\" \n\nHe served as guest editor for \"\"The Best American Poetry 2012\" (Scribners, 2012).\n\nDoty has taught at the University of Iowa, Princeton University, Sarah Lawrence College, Columbia University, Cornell and NYU. He was the John and Rebecca Moores Professor in the graduate program at The University of Houston Creative Writing Program for ten years, and is Distinguished Professor and Writer-in-Residence in the Department of English at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey, where he directs Writers House. He has also participated in The Juniper Summer Writing Institute at the University of Massachusetts Amherst's MFA Program for Poets & Writers, and was on the faculty of the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference in August 2006. He is the inaugural judge of the White Crane/James White Poetry Prize for Excellence in Gay Men's Poetry.\n\nDoty was a judge for the 2013 Griffin Poetry Prize. In 2014, he was welcomed as a trustee of the Griffin Trust For Excellence In Poetry.\n\nIn 2011, Doty was elected a Chancellor of the Academy of American Poets.\n\nFrom 1995 until 2010, his partner was the writer Paul Lisicky. They were married in 2008 and divorced in 2013. He currently lives with his partner Alexander Hadel in New York City and in the hamlet of The Springs in East Hampton, New York. The couple married October 2015 in Muir Woods National Monument.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22033658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22033658", "title": "Microsoft Semblio", "text": "Microsoft Semblio\n\nMicrosoft Semblio is a software development kit for development of rich educational software. Version 1.0 was published by Microsoft on 15 December 2008. \n\nBefore its launch it was codenamed \"Grava\", to become a set of tools for creating and using educational and training materials. The tools were to be built using WPF and consists of the following components:\n\nThe Microsoft Semblio SDK is built on the .NET Framework 3.5, and is intended to provide developers with tools for packaging and distribution of rich interactive learning material, such as e-books containing images, audio, and video. Version 1.0 of the SDK can be freely downloaded from Microsoft.\n\nThe SDK is the first of three components that will make up the \"Semblio Platform\". The other two includes an assembly tool and a media player. \n\nThe Semblio file format (.semblio) is based on ISO/IEC 29500-2:2008 Open Packaging Convention. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30678952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30678952", "title": "Ministry of Education, Sports and Youth (Albania)", "text": "Ministry of Education, Sports and Youth (Albania)\n\nThe Ministry of Education, Sports and Youth () is a department of the Albanian Government, responsible for Education and Sport. The current minister is Lindita Nikolla.\n\nSince the establishment of the institution, the Ministry of Education has been reorganized by joining other departments or merging with other ministries, thus making its name change several times. This list reflects the changes made in years in pluralist history since 1992 as an institution:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25034604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25034604", "title": "Night safari", "text": "Night safari\n\nA night safari is a nocturnal visit to a zoo or wildlife-spotting natural area. The term was first used by the Night Safari, Singapore, which opened in 1994.\nWhile the term generally applies to zoos or facilities that allow visitors to view animals within enclosures or fenced areas, the term is expanding to include viewing of wildlife in national parks and other natural areas, such as in Laos.\n\n\nNight Safari Singapore website\n"}
{"id": "22627061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22627061", "title": "Offensive Security Certified Professional", "text": "Offensive Security Certified Professional\n\nOffensive Security Certified Professional (OSCP) is an ethical hacking certification offered by Offensive Security company that teaches penetration testing methodologies and the use of the tools included with the Kali Linux distribution (successor of BackTrack). The OSCP is a hands-on penetration testing certification, requiring holders to successfully attack and penetrate various live machines in a safe lab environment. It is considered more technical than other ethical hacking certifications, and is one of the few certifications that requires evidence of practical penetration testing skills.\n\nThe course leading up to the OSCP certification was first offered in 2006 under the name \"Offensive Security 101\". Students expecting a 101 course were not prepared for the level of effort the course requires, so the name was changed to \"Pentesting With BackTrack\" in December 2008, and again to \"Penetration Testing With Kali Linux\" when the BackTrack distribution was rebuilt as Kali.\n\nThe course covers common attack vectors used during penetration tests and audit. The course is offered in two formats, either online or live \"instructor led\" classes. The online course is a package consisting of videos, a PDF, lab assignments and lab access. The instructor led course is intensive live training covering the same material, also with lab access. The labs are accessible via a high speed internet connection, and contain a variety of operating systems and network devices where the students perform their assignments.\n\nUpon completion of the course students become eligible to take the certification challenge. They are given 24 hours in an unfamiliar lab to successfully complete the exam requirements. Documentation must include procedures used and proof of successful penetration including special marker files that are changed per exam. Exam results are reviewed by a certification committee and a reply is given within 72 hours.\n\nThe OSCP does not require re-certification.\n\nSuccessful completion of the OSCP exam qualifies the student for 40 (ISC)² CPE credits.\n\nIn 2015, the UK's predominant accreditation body for penetration testing, CREST, began recognising OSCP as equivalent to their intermediate level qualification CREST Registered Tester (CRT).\n"}
{"id": "47578191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47578191", "title": "Online high schools in California", "text": "Online high schools in California\n\nThe state of California offers online learning for grades 9-12. Over 56,000 of students are taking one or more online classes in California, according to the reports California Department of Education. There are two types of online high school available in California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51540636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51540636", "title": "Open Education Resource Foundation", "text": "Open Education Resource Foundation\n\nThe Open Education Resource Foundation is a New Zealand open educational organisation that supports the following projects:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "695334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=695334", "title": "People to People Student Ambassador Program", "text": "People to People Student Ambassador Program\n\nThe People to People Student Ambassador Program was a travel service based in Spokane, Washington, offering domestic and international travel opportunities to middle and high school students. The group was founded in 1956 and reincorporated in 1995. \nPeople to People Student Ambassador Programs closed in 2015. Since then, People to People International has appointed ECE International to be the new travel operator. \n\nSince its founding, nearly half a million students, adults and athletes have participated in the ambassador programs. Since 2002, the services offered have been operated by Ambassadors Group, a for-profit company. Though open to international primary and secondary school students, programs are primarily for American students aged 10 through 18. The typical length of a program is three weeks for a group of thirty to forty students. . The organization currently operates as a for-profit travel company with income of almost 100 Million. Ambassadors Group ceased operations for student travel on July 13, 2015. Beginning in 2016, Enriching Cultural Experiences (ECE) International will serve as the travel provider of People to People International replacing the Ambassadors Group.\n\nIn 1956, U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower sought diplomatic alternatives to the wars he witnessed as a soldier, general and Allied Commander. On September 11, 1956, he called a White House conference of 100 top American leaders, who joined him in creating the People to People initiative, focused on creating cultural exchange programs. The idea for this conference came after a Geneva summit, where Eisenhower and Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev expressed enthusiasm for exchange programs as a means to ease Cold War tensions. Participants in this conference included Joyce Hall, comedian Bob Hope, and Walt Disney, who became one of the founding directors of People to People and later drew inspiration from the initiative to create the \"It's a Small World\" attraction in 1964.\n\nThe program was originally sponsored by the U.S. Information Agency, a branch of the Federal Government. In 1961, Eisenhower decided that it should be preserved by private citizens and asked Joyce Hall, founder of Hallmark Cards, to facilitate the privatization. That same year, the nonprofit People to People International began a contractual relationship with Ambassador Programs, Inc. to administer People to People travel programs for adults and students. In 1962, the first delegation of university students traveled overseas and stayed with families all over Europe. The first Student Ambassador Program was organized in 1962, with regular programs beginning in 1967. Until expansion in the 1980s, the organization sent only a few hundred students abroad each year. In 2002, People to People International granted a license to operate student programs under the \"People to People Student Ambassador Program\" name to Ambassadors Group, which had been formed as a separate company out of the Ambassadors Education Group.\n\nPeople to People Ambassador Programs offers four types of ambassador travel, including international student ambassador travel, domestic leadership ambassador summits and forums, international collegiate ambassador travel, and international citizen ambassador travel for industry professionals.\n\nSome countries that have been visited include Germany, France, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, New Zealand, China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Italy, Greece, Fiji, the Republic of Ireland, the United Kingdom and Russia. Experienced alumni students looking to participate in the program again are given the ability to choose more exotic destinations for subsequent trips such as South Africa, or Antarctica. Programs typically depart between June and August, rather than during the academic year, in groups of between thirty and forty students with a target student teacher ratio of 10-to-1. Trips usually have students from a given city or county, not from a specific school. Tuition – the fees charged for a trip – range from $4,500 for trips to Canada to more than $7,999 for trips to Australia and the South Pacific. A trip to Antarctica was also available for $12,500, however this fee was not listed on their website and is no longer available.\n\nDuring the trips, students attend various educational activities, including the chance to meet local leaders and dignitaries; trips also feature outdoor activities such as hiking, snorkeling, zip-lining or repelling. Longer itineraries include a 2- to 3-day home stay with a local family.\n\nEach student ambassador travel program includes a service component in which ambassadors participate in hands-on community service projects. Participants can also earn high school or college credit for classes through the Washington School of World Studies (operated by People to People), as well as through Eastern Washington University.\n\nPeople to People Ambassador Programs also offers domestic student trips for grade school, middle school and high school students through Leadership Ambassador Programs. These programs are focused on leadership development, community involvement, civics education and college preparation. Leadership Ambassador Programs include student trips to various U.S. destinations, including Washington D.C., New York City, Chicago, and Los Angeles, to hear from speakers and industry experts, and exchange ideas with their peers from around the world. On these four- to ten-day programs, delegates engage in leadership curriculum, team-building and personal development exercises.\n\nAny student (5th grade or older) can apply to travel on a program. All students must complete an application and an interview process before they can go on a trip to ensure that they possess the maturity and social skills needed for extended travel.\n\nThe nomination process is open to any applicant, but some parents have complained that the program's marketing makes it appear that their child was exclusively selected or nominated to participate. The Iowa Attorney General investigated the program's operator in 2006 after an invitation was accidentally sent to a family's long-deceased child, leading the operator to slightly modify the invitation and presentation process. In another case, a family received a People to People solicitation claiming that their deceased family pet had been selected as an ambassador.\n\nOn July 14, 2015, Ambassadors Group, the Spokane-based education travel company that arranges popular People to People tours, announced in a news release it is closing and all of its employees will be laid off. It reported a 2014 loss of $17.5 million. Deposits for 2016 trips will be refunded. Layoffs will begin July 27. The company will close by the end of 2015. Declining revenues and smaller numbers of student travelers drove the decision to close.\n\nIn 2007, student ambassador Tyler Hill died of complications following his group's hike on Mount Fuji in Japan. The family sued the program and its parent company, reaching a settlement in 2009. In 2008, People to People invested more than $3 million to support health and safety initiatives. The Company also hired a full-time Senior Director of Health and Safety and began a Safe Travel 24/7 blog. In 2010, People to People Ambassador Programs launched the FindMe program with Cellhire that allows a mobile phone to be tracked using GPS or cell tower triangulation. Parents of students may also rent the FindMe phone and have text conversations with their children through the FindMe website.\n\nIn July 2011, CBS News reported that People to People had retained a for-profit marketing company, AmbassadorsGroup to solicit participants. Among their reportedly questionable tactics: solicitations to long deceased children citing their \"exceptional academic performance\" as the reason for the solicitation , and the signed endorsement of a Virginia State Senator without her endorsement or knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "42063644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42063644", "title": "Pre-vocational Certificate", "text": "Pre-vocational Certificate\n\nThe Pre-vocational Certificate is a vocational qualification in Mauritius designed for early school leavers who have failed to successfully complete the exams required for the Certificate of Primary Education, a pre-requisite for entry into secondary school, or who are at or above age 13. The qualification is offered by the Mauritius Institute of Training and Development. The pre-vocational programme includes Form I Vocational, Form II Vocational, Form III Vocational, and Form IV Vocational stages of education.\n\nPreviously, students followed a pre-vocational course of education followed by the National Trade Certificate Foundation (NTC F) course led by the Mauritius Institute of Training and Development. However, this course option has been gradually phased out and replaced with a programme of study of four years of pre-vocational education followed by the NTC F course.\n\nEntry into the Pre-vocational Certificate programme generally requires completion of Standard 6 of primary school. It is at this stage of education that students take the examinations for the Certificate of Primary Education; students who fail to take the exams or who are unsuccessful in completing or passing the exams may then progress onto the Pre-vocational Certificate and enter into the vocational stream of education. \n\nThe pre-vocational programme of study includes instruction in the following subjects:\n\n\nStudents who complete the course may then progress onto the National Trade Certificate (NTC) or enter directly into employment. Advanced NTC courses have as pre-requisites lower level courses or their academic or vocational equivalents. Those who successfully complete the NTC can then progress further onto a Higher National Diploma course followed by a Bachelor's degree course, enabling re-entry into the academic stream.\n\n"}
{"id": "35032562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35032562", "title": "Progress testing", "text": "Progress testing\n\nProgress tests are longitudinal, feedback oriented educational assessment tools for the evaluation of development and sustainability of cognitive knowledge during a learning process. A progress test is a written knowledge exam (usually involving multiple choice questions) that is usually administered to all students in the \"A\" program at the same time and at regular intervals (usually twice to four times yearly) throughout the entire academic program. The test samples the complete knowledge domain expected of new graduates upon completion of their courses, regardless of the year level of the student). The differences between students’ knowledge levels show in the test scores; the further a student has progressed in the curriculum the higher the scores. As a result, these resultant scores provide a longitudinal, repeated measures, curriculum-independent assessment of the objectives (in knowledge) of the entire programme.\n\nSince its inception in the late 1970s at both Maastricht University and the University of Missouri–Kansas City independently, the progress test of applied knowledge has been increasingly used in medical and health sciences programs across the globe. They are well established and increasingly used in medical education in both undergraduate and postgraduate medical education. They are used formatively and summatively.\n\nThe progress test is currently used by national progress test consortia in the United Kingdom, Italy, The Netherlands, in Germany (including Austria), and in individual schools in Africa, Saudi Arabia, South East Asia, the Caribbean, Australia, New Zealand, Sweden, Finland, UK, and the USA. The National Board of Medical Examiners in the USA also provides progress testing in various countries The feasibility of an international approach to progress testing has been recently acknowledged and was first demonstrated by Albano et al. in 1996, who compared test scores across German, Dutch and Italian medical schools. An international consortium has been established in Canada involving faculties in Ireland, Australia, Canada, Portugal and the West Indies.\n\nThe progress test serves several important functions in academic programs. Considerable empirical evidence from medical schools in the Netherlands, Canada, United Kingdom and Ireland, as well postgraduate medical studies and schools in dentistry and psychology have shown that the longitudinal feature of the progress test provides a unique and demonstrable measurement of the growth and effectiveness of students’ knowledge acquisition throughout their course of study \n\nAs a result, this information can be consistently used for diagnostic, remedial and prognostic teaching and learning interventions. In the Netherlands, these interventions have been aided by the provision of a web-based results feedback system known as ProF in which students can compare their results with their peers across different total and subtotal score perspectives, both across and within universities.\n\nAdditionally, the longitudinal data can serve as a transparent quality assurance measure for program reviews by providing an evaluation of the extent to which a school is meeting its curriculum objectives. The test also provides more reliable data for high-stakes assessment decisions by using measures of continuous learning rather than a one-shot method (Schuwirth, 2007). Inter-university progress testing collaborations provide a means of improving the cost-effectiveness of assessments by sharing a larger pool of items, item writers, reviewers, and administrators. The collaborative approach adopted by the Dutch and other consortia has enabled the progress test to become a benchmarking instrument by which to measure the quality of educational outcomes in knowledge. The success of the progress test in these ways has led to consideration of developing an international progress test.\n\nThe benefits for all main stakeholders in a medical or health sciences programme make the progress test an appealing tool to invest resources and time for inclusion in an assessment regime. This attractiveness is demonstrated by its increasingly widespread use in individual medical education institutions and inter-faculty consortia around the world, and by its use for national and international benchmarking practices.\n\nProgress tests provide a rich source of information: the comprehensive nature in combination with the cross-sectional and longitudinal design offers a wealth of information both for individual learners as well as for curriculum evaluations.\n\nProgress Testing fosters knowledge retention: the repeated testing of the same comprehensive domain of knowledge means that there is no point testing facts that could be remembered if studied the night before. Long term knowledge and knowledge retention is fostered because item content remains relevant long after the knowledge has been learned. Progress Testing removes the need for resit examinations: every new test occasion is a renewed opportunity to demonstrate growth of knowledge.\n\nProgress Testing allows early detection of high achievers: some learners perform (far) beyond the expected level of their phase in training (e.g. they might have had relevant previous other training) and, depending on their performance, individual and more speeded pathways through the curriculum could be offered.\n\nProgress Testing brings stability in assessment procedures: curriculum changes, changes in content, have no consequence for the progress test provided the end outcomes are unchanged.\n\nProgress Testing provides excellent benchmarking opportunities: progress tests are not limited to a single school nor to PBL curricula and evaluations can easily be done to compare graduates and the effectiveness of different curriculum approaches.\n\nNaturally, there are disadvantages. The required resources for test development and scoring and the need for a central organization are two very important ones.\n\nScoring, psychometric procedures for reducing test difficulty variation and standard setting procedures are more complex in progress testing.\n\nFinally progress tests do not work in heterogeneous programs with early specialization (like in many health sciences programs). In more homogenous programs, such as most medical programs, they work really well and pay off in relation to driving learning and use of resources.\n\nInformation from 2010+ (this list may not be complete or up to date, please add any other known progress test administrations)\n\nNetherlands Group - Five medical faculties in the Netherlands (Groningen, Leiden, Maastricht, Nijmegen and VU Amsterdam) and additionally, the Ghent University in Belgium use the test\n\nInternational Partnership for Progress Testing (IPPT) - undergraduate medical programs at McMaster University Medical School, Canada; University of Limerick, Ireland; University of Algarve, Portugal; University of Western Sydney, Australia\n\nCharite, Germany (Germany – Berlin Regel, Berlin reform, Witten, Aachen, Bochum, LMU Munich, Koln, Munster, Hannover,\nMannheim, Regensburg, Austria – Graz, Innsbruck)\n\nNBME 1 (Barts, St. George’s London, Leeds and Queens University, Belfast UK)\n\nNBME 2 (University of South Florida and Case Western Reserve University)\n\nSouthern Illinois University, Vanderbilt, University of New Mexico, Penn State, Texas Tech, Medical College of Georgia, University of Minnesota\n\nUniversity of Manchester School of Medicine, UK\n\nPeninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry, UK\n\nSwansea University Medical School, Wales, UK\n\nUniversity of Tampere, Finland\n\nUniversity of Helsinki, Finland\n\nKaraganda State Medical University, Kazakhstan\n\nOtago Medical School, New Zealand\n\nAuckland Medical School, New Zealand\n\nSão Paulo City Medical School (UNICID), Brazil\n\nUniversity of Indonesia, Medical School\n\nCatholic University of Mozambique\n\nPretoria, South Africa\n\nCMIRA Program, Syrian-Lebanese Hospital Institute for Education and Research, Brazil\n\nAlfaisal University - College of Medicine, Saudi Arabia\n\nThe College of Medicine at King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences (KSAU-HS), Saudi Arabia\n\nBatterjee Medical College for Senescences & Technology Jeddah- Saudi Arabia\n\nSulaiman Alrajhi Colleges - School of Medicine, Albukairiyah city, Qassim region - Saudi Arabia\nSource:\n\nKing Fisal University KFU - College of Medicine, Al-Ahsaa, Saudi Arabia\n\nThe College of Dentistry at King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences (KSAU-HS), Saudi Arabia\n\nFlinders University - School of Medicine (post-graduate), Adelaide, Australia\n\nAlfaisal University\n\n"}
{"id": "2218996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2218996", "title": "Quatremère de Quincy", "text": "Quatremère de Quincy\n\nAntoine-Chrysostome Quatremère de Quincy (21 October 1755 – 28 December 1849) was a French armchair archaeologist and architectural theorist, a Freemason, and an effective arts administrator and influential writer on art.\n\nBorn in Paris, he trained for the law, then followed courses in art and history at the Collège Louis-le-Grand and apprenticed for a time in the atelier of Guillaume Coustou the Younger and Pierre Julien, getting some practical experience in the art of sculpture. A trip to Naples in the company of Jacques-Louis David sparked his interest in Greek and Roman architecture.\n\nHe was involved in the troubles of the French Revolution. He was a royalist in the Legislative Assembly of 1791-2, and his politics were monarchist and Catholic. As a member of the Revolutionary Committee of Public Instruction his set of three \"Considerations on the arts of design in France\" was offered before the Assemblée Nationale at a time (1791) when the continuation of the former academies was under question; he offered a program for their reform. in part by opening up the Paris salons. In 1791-92 he orchestrated the conversion of the Church of Ste-Geneviève in Paris (under the direction of Jean-Baptiste Rondelet) into the Panthéon, infilling the windows to give it the character of a mausoleum. In 1795 he was accused of taking part in the preparations for the royalist insurrection of \"13 vendémiaire\" and condemned to death, but acquitted in time.\n\nIn July 1796, Quatremere wrote a pseudo-epistolary treatise against the French plans to seize works of art from Rome, arguing that European powers should instead contribute a sum to the papacy for protecting art and knowledge. Shortly afterward, he was behind a petition signed by forty-seven Parisian artists including Jacques-Louis David which questioned the benefits of displacing art from Rome; although prudently worded, there was a vituperative official response.\n\nIn the same year he was elected to the Council of Five Hundred from the Seine department, then went into hiding after taking part in a royalist coup; in exile in Germany, he read Immanuel Kant and Gotthold Lessing, whose philosophy informed his own theories of aesthetics. In 1800, back in Paris, he was appointed secretary general of the Seine council. From 1816 until 1839 he was perpetual secretary to the \"Académie des Beaux-Arts\", which gave him great influence upon official architecture, and in 1818 he became a professor of archaeology at the Bibliothèque Nationale. He briefly returned to politics in 1820.\n\nQuatremère de Quincy was the author of numerous articles and books. From 1788 to 1825, he wrote the three Architecture volumes of the \"Encyclopédie Méthodique\". His \"Dictionnaire historique de l'Architecture\" was published in 1832-33. He wrote biographies of several artists: Antonio Canova (1823), Raphael (1824) and Michelangelo (1835).\n\nQuatremère de Quincy transformed the simple metaphor of architecture as language into a framework for reconceptualizing the structure of architecture; modern writers describing \"vernacular\" architecture, or the Baroque \"idiom\" or the \"vocabulary\" of Classicism owe a debt to Quatremère de Quincy\n\nHis essay \"De l'Architecture Égyptienne\", written for a competition posed by the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres in 1785 and published in 1803, just as the \"Description de l'Egypte\" was in preparation, nevertheless was an important influence on the Egyptian Revival phase of Neoclassical architecture, for its theoretical observations concerning the origins of architecture rather than for its historical naiveté. He was among the first to point out the use of polychromy in Greek sculpture and architecture. Though he insisted that landscape gardening could not be admitted among the fine arts, he was a key figure in the establishment of the first landscaped cemeteries, and his essay, translated into English as \"The Nature, the End and the Means of Imitation in the Fine Arts\" influenced J. C. Loudon.\n"}
{"id": "943882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=943882", "title": "Rebekka Armstrong", "text": "Rebekka Armstrong\n\nRebekka Lynn Armstrong is an American HIV/AIDs activist and former model and bodybuilder. She was \"Playboy\" Playmate of the Month for September 1986. Eight years later, she was the first Playmate to publicly announce that she is HIV-positive.\n\nArmstrong announced that she is HIV-positive in the September 1994 issue of \"The Advocate\". She said that she had known she was infected since 1989, but spent two years after her diagnosis escaping into substance abuse. By the time of the publication of \"The Advocate\" article, she had come out as a lesbian and decided to educate others about HIV/AIDS, especially among lesbian and bisexual women. She said she was unsure of when she had contracted the virus, but might have as early as age 16. By the time she was interviewed in 1999 for AIDS Project Los Angeles she identified as bisexual and said she had been infected at 16 \"to the best of my knowledge.\" A University of Toledo events notice in 2004 said that \"Playboy\" founder Hugh Hefner and the Playboy Foundation assisted Armstrong financially on her AIDS-awareness campaign, the College Campus Safer Sex education program.\n\nIn a 2013 speech to community college students in Spokane, Washington, Armstrong shared details about the early days of her illness, the aggressive AZT treatment that she endured, the good and bad times of that five-year period, and about her suicide attempt followed by a coma and a lengthy hospital stay.\n\nIn addition to her former career as a model and her current activism, Armstrong has also competed as a bodybuilder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2253593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2253593", "title": "Royal College of Science for Ireland", "text": "Royal College of Science for Ireland\n\nThe Royal College of Science for Ireland (RCScI) was an institute for higher education in Dublin which existed from 1867 to 1926, specialising in physical sciences and applied science. It was originally based on St. Stephen's Green, moving in 1911 to a purpose-built \"Royal College of Science\" building on Merrion Street. In 1926 it was absorbed into University College Dublin (UCD) as the faculty of Science and Engineering.\n\nThe Museum of Economic Geology was founded by the Dublin Castle administration in 1845, with chemist Robert Kane as curator, and a focus on mining in Ireland similar to the Museum of Practical Geology in London. In 1847, Kane was promoted to director, expanding its remit, and renaming it the Museum of Irish Industry (MII). In 1853 a new Science and Art Department was created within the Whitehall administration, and in 1854 the MII placed under its remit. A School of Science applied to Mining and the Arts was created, modelled on the Royal School of Mines in London, with four professorships shared jointly by the MII school and the Royal Dublin Society (RDS). The MII and School shared premises at 51, St. Stephen's Green, acquired in 1846 and fitted out by 1852. In 1864, a select committee of the UK parliament recommended that the MII and School be entirely separated from the RDS and broadened into a government-supported College of Science for Ireland. In 1865, HM Treasury agreed and in 1867 a commission was appointed by the education committee of the Privy Council. The commission, headed by William Parsons, 3rd Earl of Rosse, outlined the scope and functions of the proposed college, and the RCScI mission statement on 11 September 1867 was: \n\nGeorge Sigerson complained in 1868 that the RCScI was less open to Catholics than the MII had been.\n\nThe RCScI's remit was later changed to exclude include agriculture and include \"Physics and Natural Science\". The number of students enrolled increased gradually.\n\nBy 1898 the RCScI had chairs of Mining and Mineralogy, Physics, Chemistry, Zoology, Botany, Geology, Applied Mathematics and Mechanism, Descriptive Geometry and Engineering. In 1900, control was transferred from the Science and Art Department in London to the Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction in Dublin, headed by Horace Plunkett. A new building was proposed in 1897 and a site from Merrion Street to Kildare Street was chosen in 1898; in 1899 the plan was extended to include government administrative offices as well as the new college. The new building was designed by Sir Aston Webb; the foundation stone was laid in 1904 by Edward VII and it was opened in 1911 by George V.\n\nIn 1926 the RCScI was absorbed into UCD where it became the UCD Science and Engineering faculties. Science moved to UCD's Earlsfort Terrace building, and on to Belfield in the 1960s; Engineering moved from Merrion Street to Belfield in 1989. The RCScI building was then absorbed into Government Buildings with the rest of Aston Webb's complex, lavishly renovated by Charles Haughey and used to house the Department of the Taoiseach.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4172250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4172250", "title": "Savitribai Phule", "text": "Savitribai Phule\n\nSavitribai Jyotirao Phule (3 January 1831 – 10 March 1897) was an Indian social reformer, educationalist and poet. She is regarded as the first lady teacher of India. Along with her husband, Jyotirao Phule, she played an important role in improving women's rights in India during British rule. Phule, along with her husband founded the first girls' school in Pune ran by native Indians at Bhide Wada in 1848. She worked to abolish the discrimination and unfair treatment of people based on caste and gender. She is regarded as an important figure of the social reform movement in Maharashtra.\n\nSavitribai Phule was born in 1831 in Naigaon, Bombay Presidency in a farming family. At the age of nine, she was married to twelve-year-old Jyotirao Phule in 1840. Savitribai and Jyotirao had no children of their own, but they adopted Yashavantrao, a son born to a Brahmin widow.\n\nWhen Jyotirao Phule started the girls school in Pune in 1848, Savitribai was its first teacher. Together with her husband, she taught children from different castes and opened a total of 18 schools. The couple also opened a care centre called Balhatya Pratibandhak Griha for pregnant rape victims and helped deliver their children.\n\nSavitribai and her adopted son, Yashwant, opened a clinic to treat those affected by the worldwide Third Pandemic of the bubonic plague when it appeared in the area around Nallasopara in 1897. The clinic was established at stern outskirts of Pune, in an area free of infection. Savitribai personally took patients to the clinic where her son served them. While caring for the patients, she contracted the disease herself. She died from it on 10 March 1897 while serving a plague patient.\n\nSavitribai Phule wrote many poems against discrimination and advised people to get educated. Two books of her poems were published posthumously, \"Kavya Phule\" (1954) and \"Bavan Kashi Subodh Ratnakar\" (1982).\n\nPune City Corporation created a memorial for her in 1983.\n\n\nOn 3 January 2017, the search engine Google marked the 186th anniversary of the birth of Savitribai Phule with a Google doodle.\n\nAlong with Ambedkar and Annabhau Sathe, Phule has become an icon in particular for the Dalit Mang caste. Women in local branches of the Manavi Hakk Abhiyan (Human Rights Campaign, a Mang-Ambedkarite body) frequently organise processions on their jayanti (birthday in Marathi and other Indian languages).\n\nA Kannada Movie was made on Biopic of Phule in 2018.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "57184176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57184176", "title": "TechCongress", "text": "TechCongress\n\nTechCongress is a technology policy fellowship associated with the US Congress created by Travis Moore. Tech experts and professionals spend one year with relevant Members or Committees in the House and Senate. The fellowship's goal is helping Congress aim for more informed decisions regarding technology and policy by allowing Congress to gain technical insight. At present, only 6 out of 15,000 staffers have a technical background.\n\nTravis Moore founded the fellowship as a solution to some of the issues he witnessed in his six years of experience in the House of Representatives, working for former Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.) \n\nTechCongress used an Indiegogo campaign to get seed funding for the fellowship. A total sum of $8,000 was raised in the first year.\n\nIt invites a wide variety of individuals with different backgrounds to be part of the fellowship. Fellows mainly come from technical backgrounds, involving work in the private sector.\n\nFellows are placed into different governmental bodies. They have a chance to work in the office of a member, committee, or a congressional support agency. Participants receive $52,500 dollars for service as well as relocation costs. The fellowship will last one year.\n"}
{"id": "31486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31486", "title": "Tertiary education", "text": "Tertiary education\n\nTertiary education, also referred to as third stage, third level, and postsecondary education, is the educational level following the completion of a school providing a secondary education. The World Bank, for example, defines tertiary education as including universities as well as trade schools and colleges. Higher education is taken to include undergraduate and postgraduate education, while vocational education beyond secondary education is known as \"further education\" in the United Kingdom, or \"continuing education\" in the United States.\n\nTertiary education generally culminates in the receipt of certificates, diplomas, or academic degrees.\n\nThe UNESCO stated that tertiary education focuses on learning endeavors in specialized fields. It includes academic and higher vocational education.\n\nThe World Bank's 2019 World Development Report on the future of work argues that given the future of work and the increasing role of technology in value chains, tertiary education becomes even more relevant for workers to compete in the labor market.\n\n\"Tertiary education\" includes further education (FE), as well as higher education (HE). Since the 1970s specialized FE colleges called “tertiary colleges” have been set up to offer courses such as A Levels, that allow progression to HE, alongside vocational courses. An early example of this which expanded in September 1982 as part of a reorganization of education in the Halesowen area which also saw three-tier education axed after just 10 years in force.\n\nIn some areas where schools do not universally offer sixth forms, tertiary colleges function as a sixth form college as well as a general FE college.\n\nUnlike sixth form colleges, the staff join lecturers' rather than teachers' unions.\n\nUnder devolution in the United Kingdom, education is administered separately in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland. In 2018 the Welsh Government adopted the term \"tertiary education\" to refer to post-16 education and training in Wales.\n\nWithin Australia \"Tertiary Education\" refers to continuing studies after a students Higher School Certificate. It also refers to any education a student receives after final compulsory schooling, which occurs at the age of 17 within Australia. Tertiary Education options include University, TAFE or private colleges.\n\nThe higher education system in the United States is decentralized and essentially independent from regulation by the federal government. It is diverse because there are private and public institutions. Some are small and affiliated with religious organizations. Others could be secular, rural, urban, or suburban. In short, there are a wide variety of options which are often locally determined. The United States Department of Education presents a broad-spectrum view of tertiary education and detailed information on the nation's educational structure, accreditation procedures, and connections to state as well as federal agencies and entities.\n\nThe Carnegie Classifications of Institutions of Higher Education provides an explanation so people will understand how American institutions of higher learning compare to each other. The Carnegie platform separates all accredited schools that give out degrees into categories that describe highest degree granted or special areas of study. US tertiary education includes various non-profit organizations promoting professional development of individuals in the field of higher education and helping expand awareness of related issues like international student services and complete campus internationalization.\n\nAlthough tertiary education in the EU includes university, it can differ from country to country.\n\nAlong with IUT and STS, Universities (French: Universités) are tertiary educations.\n\nAfter going to Elementary school (French: École maternelle), Primary school (French: École primaire), College (French: Collège), and Lycee (French: Lycée), a student may go to university, but may also retire at that point.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1658874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1658874", "title": "United Arab Emirates University", "text": "United Arab Emirates University\n\nUnited Arab Emirates University (in Arabic:جامعة الإمارات العربية المتحدة) is the oldest university in the United Arab Emirates. It was established after independence from Britain by then the president and the founding father of the UAE, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, in 1976. It is the first and oldest of the three government-sponsored institutions of higher learning in the United Arab Emirates (the other two are the Higher Colleges of Technology and Zayed University). The university is located in Al Ain, United Arab Emirates. The UAEU is an accredited research-based institution. Its alumni have provided the United Arab Emirates with ministers, diplomats, senior government officials, and business leaders.\n\nThe university is located in the city of Al Ain, an oasis city in the Abu Dhabi emirate 140 km east of the capital city of Abu Dhabi and a similar distance from the city of Dubai. The university features six separate smaller campuses.\n\nStudents come from all seven Emirates plus more than 64 countries. 6,696 students live on campus. 2014, enrolled international students constituted 25% of the total enrolled students\n\nThe United Arab Emirates University is continuously ranked as the top university in the United Arab Emirates, and the 4th in the GCC. The university is ranked as the 6th in the Arab region, the 338th and 370th in the world in the 2011/2012 and 2012/2013 QS World University Rankings. The 2011/12 QS World University Rankings placed UAEU among the Top 50 Under 50, i.e., among the top 50 world universities that were founded within the past 50 years, being ranked number 48. Within the Top 50 Under 50 rankings, only eight universities in the world that are younger than UAE are ranked above UAE.\n\nIn its capacity as a business school, UAEU was placed as the third best business school in Africa and the Middle East in the 2010 QS Global 200 Business Schools Report. As a research university the UAEU is ranked as number one in the GCC countries, number two in the Arab World, and ninth in the Muslim world. It was ranked the best 86th university in Asia by Times higher education:Asia university ranking \n\nThe Vice-Chancellor is responsible for the management of the university as well as policy and strategic planning, budget and financial activities, external relations, and alumni. The Provost is the Chief Academic Officer responsible for the Colleges, undergraduate studies, research and graduate studies, and information technology. He is assisted by the Deputy Provost. The Secretary General is responsible for services that support the academic mission of the university including finance, budget, facilities management, human resources, auxiliary services, and safety. The Deans are the heads of the academic colleges, which are groupings of academic disciplines, through which the academic staff teach at undergraduate and post graduate levels, and conduct research and scholarship.\n\nThe UAEU has undergraduate and postgraduate degree programs in nine colleges:\n\nThe University Foundations Program prepares students for academic degree programs with pre-university courses in English, Arabic and Mathematics and other support in making the transition from school to university.\n\nIn addition to undergraduate and graduate programs, the UAEU conducts continuous education courses and vocational certificates for the community across all disciplines and hosts the Emirates Health Services, which provides medical skills training.\n\nIn November 2016, the University held its first ever symposium on Biological Sciences \"GENOMICS & BIOINFORMATICS\" attended by experts from different parts of the world.\n\nThe university launched the first PhD program at a national university in the UAE. As a research institution it attracts national, international, and industrial grants. PhD programs and professional doctorate degrees cover a range including Pharmacy, Public Health, and a Doctorate of Business Administration.\n\nThe university hosts research centers including the Zayed Center for Health Sciences and the National Water Center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28557036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28557036", "title": "University Admissions Finland", "text": "University Admissions Finland\n\nUniversity Admissions Finland (UAF) is a centralised application service for international Master's degree student applicants for eleven Finnish universities.\n\nUniversity Admissions Finland processes the applications, which includes credential evaluation and verification of language skills. After UAF’s processing, the universities will do the academic evaluation of the applications and carry out student selections. The admission requirements are set by the universities.\n\nUniversities using UAF application service:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58292901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58292901", "title": "WeatherReadyFest", "text": "WeatherReadyFest\n\nWeatherReadyFest, formerly WeatherFest, is an annual public educational outreach event hosted by the National Weather Association in conjunction with the organization's annual meeting.\n\nThe event includes hands on activities and exhibits focused on atmospheric sciences and disaster safety. Emergency services and area broadcasters display large vehicles. Celebrity meteorologists including Nick Walker and Jim Cantore, from The Weather Channel, Ginger Zee from Good Morning America and James Spann were featured at recent events. Exhibitors include the National Weather Service, emergency services, public safety and first responders universities, FedEx, the Air Force, and NASA.\n\nThe event was first held in Birmingham in 2011 with over 3,400 in attendance. More than 7,500 attended the event in Saint Louis in 2018. Similar events have been sponsored by the American Meteorological Society during their annual meeting.\n\n"}
{"id": "34520544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34520544", "title": "Western Association for Art Conservation", "text": "Western Association for Art Conservation\n\nThe Western Association for Art Conservation (WAAC) is a nonprofit regional membership organization for conservation professionals based in the Western United States, although membership is open to all irrespective of geographical location.\n\nWAAC serves its members, who have a professional responsibility for the preservation of cultural heritage, and disseminates information through its publications and annual meeting/conference. WAAC advances knowledge, practice and standards for the conservation profession.\n\nWAAC's bylaws state that the specific purposes of WAAC are:\n\nWAAC was founded in 1975 to bring together conservators practicing in the western United States to exchange ideas, information and news.\n\nOne of the prime forces behind the creation of the Western Association for Art Conservation, or Western Association of Art Conservators as it was initially called, was Benjamin Bishop Johnson, who served as the first President of the organization; and at the time was Chief Conservator at LACMA, as well as a lecturer at UCLA.\n\nThe current WAAC Board. \n\n\nA membership directory is published annually and sent to members. The membership directory is alternatively available to members in electronic format; as a pdf. WAAC's Membership Directory is distributed in March of each year.\n\nThe WAAC Newsletter (ISSN 1052-0066) has been published since 1979, and is published three times per year, in January, May and September. Each issue has been 28-32 pages long. Each issue contains several feature articles, many of which are widely cited, and the newsletter is a widely referenced resource for heritage professionals. \n\nRegular columns include:\n\nA 10-Year Cumulative Index of the WAAC Newsletter (1979-1988, Volumes 1-10) has also been produced. Back issues are also available online.\n\nIn response to Hurricane Katrina WAAC published a special issue of the WAAC Newsletter, September 2005 (vol 27, no 3), devoted to issue of salvage and emergency response. The issue included information on health and safety for salvage operations, a reprint with a new introduction of Betty Walsh's \"Salvage Operations for Water Damaged Archival Collections\" and the \"Salvage at a Glance\" chart (printed on waterproof synthetic paper), as well as a collection of new information and reprinted materials from a number of sources.\n\nThe WAAC publication \"A Guide to Handling Anthropological Museum Collections\" is available in both English and Spanish (Guía para el manejo de colecciones antropológicas de museos). \n\nThe guide has also been translated into Arabic. Although not directly available from WAAC, it is reportedly widely distributed in the Arab speaking world.\n\nThis is a humorous guide to the \"do's and don'ts\" of collections handling, and was written by Nancy Odegaard and illustrated by Grace Katterman. It is soft bound, and runs to 41 pages.\n\nA compilation of the talks comprising the Loss Compensation panel from the 1993 meeting at the Marconi Conference Center, enhanced by a detailed introduction into the history of loss compensation theory written by Patricia Leavengood.\n\nCONTENTS\n\nWAAC holds an annual meeting, also referred to as a conference. Information about past meetings can be found on the WAAC website. \n\nIn 2009 rain water entered the Alaska State Archives building, when a storm ripped the roof from the building, WAAC members who \"serendipitously happen to be in Juneau for the Western Association for Art Conservation conference\" assist with the rescue efforts. The conference went ahead, and included a public lecture by Yosi Pozeilov about pinhole cameras.\n\n"}
{"id": "7774320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7774320", "title": "William Hare (philosopher)", "text": "William Hare (philosopher)\n\nWilliam Hare (born February 7, 1944, Leicester, UK) is a philosopher whose writings deal primarily with problems in philosophy of education. He attended Wyggeston Grammar School for Boys, 1955–62. After receiving his B.A. from the University of London (1965), he gained an M.A. in philosophy from the University of Leicester (1968), and a Ph.D. in educational theory from the University of Toronto (1971). He was Professor of Education and Philosophy at Dalhousie University from 1970–95, and subsequently Professor of Education at Mount Saint Vincent University until his retirement in June 2008. He is now Professor\nEmeritus. He is known mainly for his work on open-mindedness, and has published several papers\ndealing with philosophical ideas about education in the work of Bertrand Russell.\n\n\n\n\n"}
