{"id": "19985126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19985126", "title": "A Green New Deal", "text": "A Green New Deal\n\n\"A Green New Deal\" is a report released on July 21, 2008 by the Green New Deal Group and published by the New Economics Foundation, which outlines a series of policy proposals to tackle global warming, the current financial crisis, and peak oil. The report calls for the re-regulation of finance and taxation, and major government investment in renewable energy sources. Its full title is: \"A Green New Deal: Joined-up policies to solve the triple crunch of the credit crisis, climate change and high oil prices\".\n\n\nThe authors of A Green New Deal are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=748", "title": "Amateur astronomy", "text": "Amateur astronomy\n\nAmateur astronomy is a hobby whose participants enjoy observing or imaging celestial objects in the sky using the unaided eye, binoculars, or telescopes. Even though scientific research may not be their primary goal, some amateur astronomers make contributions in doing citizen science, such as by monitoring variable stars, double stars or occultations of stars by the Moon or asteroids, or by discovering transient astronomical events, such as comets, galactic novae or supernovae in other galaxies.\n\nAmateur astronomers do not use the field of astronomy as their primary source of income or support, and usually have no professional degree in astrophysics or advanced academic training in the subject. Most amateurs are beginners or hobbyists, while others have a high degree of experience in astronomy and may often assist and work alongside professional astronomers. Many astronomers have studied the sky throughout history in an amateur framework; however, since the beginning of the twentieth century, professional astronomy has become an activity clearly distinguished from amateur astronomy and associated activities.\n\nAmateur astronomers typically view the sky at night, when most celestial objects and astronomical events are visible, but others observe during the daytime by viewing sunspots or solar eclipses. Some just look at the sky using nothing more than their eyes or binoculars, but more dedicated amateurs often use portable telescopes or telescopes situated in their private or club observatories. Amateurs can also join as members of amateur astronomical societies, which can advise, educate or guide them towards ways of finding and observing celestial objects; or even promoting the science of astronomy among the general public.\n\nCollectively, amateur astronomers observe a variety of celestial objects and phenomena. Common targets of amateur astronomers include the Moon, planets, stars, comets, meteor showers, and a variety of deep sky objects such as star clusters, galaxies, and nebulae. Many amateurs like to specialise in observing particular objects, types of objects, or types of events which interest them. One branch of amateur astronomy, amateur astrophotography, involves the taking of photos of the night sky. Astrophotography has become more popular with the introduction of far easier to use equipment including, digital cameras, DSLR cameras and relatively sophisticated purpose built high quality CCD cameras.\n\nMost amateur astronomers work at visible wavelengths, but a small minority experiment with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum. An early pioneer of radio astronomy was Grote Reber, an amateur astronomer who constructed the first purpose built radio telescope in the late 1930s to follow up on the discovery of radio wavelength emissions from space by Karl Jansky. Non-visual amateur astronomy includes the use of infrared filters on conventional telescopes, and also the use of radio telescopes. Some amateur astronomers use home-made radio telescopes, while others use radio telescopes that were originally built for astronomical research but have since been made available for use by amateurs. The One-Mile Telescope is one such example.\n\nAmateur astronomers use a range of instruments to study the sky, depending on a combination of their interests and resources. Methods include simply looking at the night sky with the naked eye, using binoculars, and using a variety of optical telescopes of varying power and quality, as well as additional sophisticated equipment, such as cameras, to study light from the sky in both the visual and non-visual parts of the spectrum. Commercial telescopes are available, new and used, but it is also common for amateur astronomers to build (or commission the building of) their own custom telescopes. Some people even focus on amateur telescope making as their primary interest within the hobby of amateur astronomy.\n\nAlthough specialized and experienced amateur astronomers tend to acquire more specialized and more powerful equipment over time, relatively simple equipment is often preferred for certain tasks. Binoculars, for instance, although generally of lower power than the majority of telescopes, also tend to provide a wider field of view, which is preferable for looking at some objects in the night sky.\n\nAmateur astronomers also use star charts that, depending on experience and intentions, may range from simple planispheres through to detailed charts of very specific areas of the night sky. A range of astronomy software is available and used by amateur astronomers, including software that generates maps of the sky, software to assist with astrophotography, observation scheduling software, and software to perform various calculations pertaining to astronomical phenomena.\n\nAmateur astronomers often like to keep records of their observations, which usually takes the form of an observing log. Observing logs typically record details about which objects were observed and when, as well as describing the details that were seen. Sketching is sometimes used within logs, and photographic records of observations have also been used in recent times. The information gathered is used to help studies and interactions between amateur astronomers in yearly gatherings. Although not professional information or credible, it is a way for the hobby lovers to share their new sightings and experiences.\n\nThe Internet is an essential tool of amateur astronomers. The popularity of imaging among amateurs has led to large numbers of web sites being written by individuals about their images and equipment. Much of the social interaction of amateur astronomy occurs on mailing lists or discussion groups. Discussion group servers host numerous astronomy lists. A great deal of the commerce of amateur astronomy, the buying and selling of equipment, occurs online. Many amateurs use online tools to plan their nightly observing sessions, using tools such as the Clear Sky Chart.\n\nWhile a number of interesting celestial objects are readily identified by the naked eye, sometimes with the aid of a star chart, many others are so faint or inconspicuous that technical means are necessary to locate them. Although many methods are used in amateur astronomy, most are variations of a few specific techniques.\n\nStar hopping is a method often used by amateur astronomers with low-tech equipment such as binoculars or a manually driven telescope. It involves the use of maps (or memory) to locate known landmark stars, and \"hopping\" between them, often with the aid of a finderscope. Because of its simplicity, star hopping is a very common method for finding objects that are close to naked-eye stars.\n\nMore advanced methods of locating objects in the sky include telescope mounts with \"setting circles\", which assist with pointing telescopes to positions in the sky that are known to contain objects of interest, and \"GOTO telescopes\", which are fully automated telescopes that are capable of locating objects on demand (having first been calibrated).\n\nThe advent of mobile applications for use in smartphones has led to the creation of many dedicated apps. These apps allow any user to easily locate celestial objects of interest by simply pointing the smartphone device in that direction in the sky. These apps make use of the inbuilt hardware in the phone, such as GPS location and gyroscope. Useful information about the pointed object like celestial coordinates, the name of the object, its constellation, etc. are provided for a quick reference. Some paid versions give more information. These apps are gradually getting into regular use during observing, for the alignment process of telescopes.\n\nSetting circles are angular measurement scales that can be placed on the two main rotation axes of some telescopes. Since the widespread adoption of digital setting circles, any classical engraved setting circle is now specifically identified as an \"analog setting circle\" (ASC). By knowing the coordinates of an object (usually given in equatorial coordinates), the telescope user can use the setting circle to align (i.e., point) the telescope in the appropriate direction before looking through its eyepiece. A computerized setting circle is called a \"digital setting circle\" (DSC). Although digital setting circles can be used to display a telescope's RA and Dec coordinates, they are not simply a digital read-out of what can be seen on the telescope's analog setting circles. As with go-to telescopes, digital setting circle computers (commercial names include Argo Navis, Sky Commander, and NGC Max) contain databases of tens of thousands of celestial objects and projections of planet positions.\n\nTo find a celestial object in a telescope equipped with a DSC computer, one does not need to look up the specific RA and Dec coordinates in a book or other resource, and then adjust the telescope to those numerical readings. Rather, the object is chosen from the electronic database, which causes distance values and arrow markers to appear in the display that indicate the distance and direction to move the telescope. The telescope is moved until the two angular distance values reach zero, indicating that the telescope is properly aligned. When both the RA and Dec axes are thus \"zeroed out\", the object should be in the eyepiece. Many DSCs, like go-to systems, can also work in conjunction with laptop sky programs.\n\nComputerized systems provide the further advantage of computing coordinate precession. Traditional printed sources are subtitled by the \"epoch\" year, which refers to the positions of celestial objects at a given time to the nearest year (e.g., J2005, J2007). Most such printed sources have been updated for intervals of only about every fifty years (e.g., J1900, J1950, J2000). Computerized sources, on the other hand, are able to calculate the right ascension and declination of the \"epoch of date\" to the exact instant of observation.\n\nGOTO telescopes have become more popular since the 1980s as technology has improved and prices have been reduced. With these computer-driven telescopes, the user typically enters the name of the item of interest and the mechanics of the telescope point the telescope towards that item automatically. They have several notable advantages for amateur astronomers intent on research. For example, GOTO telescopes tend to be faster for locating items of interest than star hopping, allowing more time for studying of the object. GOTO also allows manufacturers to add equatorial tracking to mechanically simpler alt-azimuth telescope mounts, allowing them to produce an overall less expensive product. GOTO telescopes usually have to be calibrated using alignment stars in order to provide accurate tracking and positioning. However, several telescope manufacturers have recently developed telescope systems that are calibrated with the use of built-in GPS, decreasing the time it takes to set up a telescope at the start of an observing session.\n\nWith the development of fast Internet in the last part of the 20th century along with advances in computer controlled telescope mounts and CCD cameras \"Remote Telescope\" astronomy is now a viable means for amateur astronomers not aligned with major telescope facilities to partake in research and deep sky imaging. This enables anyone to control a telescope a great distance away in a dark location. The observer can image through the telescope using CCD cameras. The digital data collected by the telescope is then transmitted and displayed to the user by means of the Internet. An example of a digital remote telescope operation for public use via the Internet is the Bareket observatory, and there are telescope farms in New Mexico, Australia and Atacama in Chile.\n\nAmateur astronomers engage in many imaging techniques including film, DSLR, LRGB, and CCD astrophotography. Because CCD imagers are linear, image processing may be used to subtract away the effects of light pollution, which has increased the popularity of astrophotography in urban areas. Narrowband filters may also be used to minimize light pollution.\nScientific research is most often not the \"main\" goal for many amateur astronomers, unlike professional astronomers. Work of scientific merit is possible, however, and many amateurs successfully contribute to the knowledge base of professional astronomers. Astronomy is sometimes promoted as one of the few remaining sciences for which amateurs can still contribute useful data. To recognize this, the Astronomical Society of the Pacific annually gives Amateur Achievement Awards for significant contributions to astronomy by amateurs.\n\nThe majority of scientific contributions by amateur astronomers are in the area of data collection. In particular, this applies where large numbers of amateur astronomers with small telescopes are more effective than the relatively small number of large telescopes that are available to professional astronomers. Several organizations, such as the American Association of Variable Star Observers, exist to help coordinate these contributions.\n\nAmateur astronomers often contribute toward activities such as monitoring the changes in brightness of variable stars and supernovae, helping to track asteroids, and observing occultations to determine both the shape of asteroids and the shape of the terrain on the apparent edge of the Moon as seen from Earth. With more advanced equipment, but still cheap in comparison to professional setups, amateur astronomers can measure the light spectrum emitted from astronomical objects, which can yield high-quality scientific data if the measurements are performed with due care. A relatively recent role for amateur astronomers is searching for overlooked phenomena (e.g., Kreutz Sungrazers) in the vast libraries of digital images and other data captured by Earth and space based observatories, much of which is available over the Internet.\n\nIn the past and present, amateur astronomers have played a major role in discovering new comets. Recently however, funding of projects such as the Lincoln Near-Earth Asteroid Research and Near Earth Asteroid Tracking projects has meant that most comets are now discovered by automated systems long before it is possible for amateurs to see them.\n\nThere are a large number of amateur astronomical societies around the world, that serve as a meeting point for those interested in amateur astronomy. Members range from active observers with their own equipment to \"armchair astronomers\" who are simply interested in the topic. Societies range widely in their goals and activities, which may depend on a variety of factors such as geographic spread, local circumstances, size, and membership. For example, a small local society located in dark countryside may focus on practical observing and star parties, whereas a large one based in a major city might have numerous members but be limited by light pollution and thus hold regular indoor meetings with guest speakers instead. Major national or international societies generally publish their own journal or newsletter, and some hold large multi-day meetings akin to a scientific conference or convention. They may also have sections devoted to particular topics, such as observing the Moon or amateur telescope making.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52218622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52218622", "title": "Arthur Good", "text": "Arthur Good\n\nArthur Good (16 or 26 August 1853 – 30 March 1928) was a French engineer, science educator, author and caricaturist who used the pen name Tom Tit. He wrote a series of weekly articles, \"La Science Amusante\", or \"Amusing Science\", that were collected in book form and have been translated and republished in more than 130 editions in several languages. The illustrations for his do-it-yourself scientific apparatuses have been described as surrealist collages, and were an inspiration for surrealist artists such as Max Ernst and Joseph Cornell.\n\nArthur Good was born in Montivilliers, Seine-Maritime, France on 16 or 26 August 1853. He was the son of Protestant pastor Gustave Frédéric Good (1823–1896) and Louise Stéphanie Monod (1827–1909).\n\nGood graduated from the École centrale des arts et manufacture in Paris, where he studied engineering.\n\nHe married Jeanne Valon (1857–1910) in Paris on 6 April 1881. They had four children.\n\nUnder the pen name Tom Tit, Arthur Good wrote a series of weekly articles, \"La Science Amusante\", or \"Amusing Science\", for the French magazine \"L’Illustration\". Good presented a range of physical experiments, from \"simple games meant to amuse the family\" to experiments \"of a truly scientific character\". They introduce a range of physical and scientific principles including magnetism and surface tension. Good's articles include geometrical demonstrations, craft projects, and physics experiments which can be carried out with everyday household materials. In books such as \"La Récréation En Famille\" he emphasized that scientific education could be a common activity and amusement for the entire family. He dedicated \"La Science Amusante\" to one of his children, saying \"In dedicating this volume today, I would like it to be a souvenir for you of the happy moments we have spent together trying the experiments and constructing the apparatuses\".\n\nGood created improvised scientific apparatuses like his \"Soap-bubble Chandelier\" using common items such as bottles, eggs, corks, candles, and soap. His constructions have an imaginative charm that has led to them being compared to surrealistic collages. Nonetheless, his drawings were seriously and carefully rendered by scientific engraver Louis Poyet (1846–1913) and his assistants.\n\nThe original columns from \"La Science Amusante\" were collected and published in a three-volume series in France. Each volume contained 100 amusements. Beginning in 1889, they have been reprinted in over 130 editions. Collections of amusements were translated and published in English, Italian, and Spanish. In the United States they appeared as \"Magical Experiments, or Science in Play\", and in England as \"Scientific Amusements\". A selection has also been republished as \"100 Amazing Magic Tricks\". Good's books are considered to have laid the foundations for modern approaches to science education in their introduction of \"kitchen science\" and hands-on experiments for children.\n\nGood also published instructions for DIY entertainments in \"Pour Amuser Les Petits ou les joujoux qu’on peut faire soi-même\" (To Amuse the Little Ones, or Do-It-Yourself Small Toys), \"La Récréation En Famille\" (Family Recreations), \"Les Bons Jeudis\" (Fun Thursdays – in Good's day in France there were no classes on Thursdays), and \"Joujoux en Papier\" (Paper Toys). From 1885 to 1888, he was the editor of a periodical, \"Le Chercheur\", that featured new inventions. He also wrote for \"La Nature\".\n\nIn addition to his science education publications, Good published a set of \"Caricatures\" of famous Britons in London in 1913. He received a medal of honor from the National Society for the Development of Good (\"Société nationale d'encouragement au bien\").\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s, surrealist artists such as Max Ernst and\nJoseph Cornell were intrigued by the Tom Tit illustrations, and incorporated them into their own works.\n\n"}
{"id": "6531362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6531362", "title": "Battle of the Sexes (tennis)", "text": "Battle of the Sexes (tennis)\n\nIn tennis, \"Battle of the Sexes\" is a term that has been used to describe various exhibition matches played between a man and a woman (or, in one case, a doubles match between two men and two women). Most famously, the term is used for a nationally televised match in 1973, held at the Houston Astrodome, between 55-year-old Bobby Riggs and 29-year-old Billie Jean King, which King won in three sets. The match attracted massive attention and was viewed by an estimated 90 million people around the world. King's win is considered a milestone in public acceptance of women's tennis.\n\nTwo other matches commonly referred to as a \"battle of the sexes\" include a match held four months earlier in 1973 between Riggs and Margaret Court, over the best of three sets, and one in 1992 between Jimmy Connors and Martina Navratilova, over the best of three sets and hybrid rules favoring the female player, dubbed \"The Battle of Champions\".\n\nAt least eight other exhibition matches have been played between notable male and female tennis players, starting in 1888, though only some of them were referred to at the time as a \"battle of the sexes\".\n\nRiggs had been one of the world's top tennis players in the 1940s; he was ranked year-end World No. 1 three times and had won six major titles during his career. After he retired from professional tennis in 1951, Riggs remained a master promoter of himself and of tennis. In 1973, he opined that the female game was inferior and that even at his current age of 55 he could still beat any of the top female players.\n\nRiggs first challenged Billie Jean King, but when she declined, Margaret Court stepped in. At the time, Court was 30 years old and in the midst of earning her seventh year-end ranking as World No. 1 female player in the world. On the day of their match on May 13, 5,000 fans came to the Mother's Day match in Ramona, California. Televised by CBS Sports, Riggs descended the stadium steps and presented Court with Mother's Day flowers, which she accepted while curtsying. Riggs used his drop shots and lobs to keep Court off balance. His quick victory (6–2, 6–1) landed Riggs on the cover of both \"Sports Illustrated\" and \"Time\".\n\nSuddenly in the national limelight following his win over Court, Riggs taunted all female tennis players, prompting King to accept a lucrative financial offer to play Riggs in a nationally televised match in prime time on ABC that the promoters dubbed the \"Battle of the Sexes.\" The match, which had a winner-take-all prize of $100,000 ($ today), was held in Texas at the Houston Astrodome on Thursday, September 20, 1973.\n\nThen 29-year-old King had earned her fifth year-end ranking as World No. 1 female player the previous year, and would finish second to Court in 1973. \n\nKing entered the court in the style of Cleopatra, on a feather-adorned litter carried by four bare-chested muscle men dressed in the style of ancient slaves. Riggs followed in a rickshaw drawn by a bevy of models. Riggs presented King with a giant Sugar Daddy lollipop, and she responded by giving him a squealing piglet, symbolic of male chauvinism. Riggs was given $50,000 ($ today) to wear a yellow Sugar Daddy jacket during the match, which he took off after three games. Riggs also placed many bets on and invested a lot of money in the match.\n\nKing, who also competed in the Virginia Slims of Houston during the same week, won in straight sets, 6–4, 6–3, 6–3. In the first set, she fell behind 3–2 when Riggs broke her serve. In a 2015 interview, she said that most people do not remember that she was initially behind in the first set, and it looked bad for her in the early going. At this point, King realized that she \"had to win\" given the importance of the match, and broke right back and again in the tenth game to close out the set. She had learned from Court's loss and was ready for Riggs's game. Rather than playing her own usual aggressive game, King mostly stayed at the baseline, easily handling Riggs's lobs and soft shots, making him cover the entire court as she ran him from side to side and beat him at his own defensive style of play. After quickly failing from the baseline, where he had intended to play, Riggs dropped his comedic effect and showed a more serious demeanor, as he was forced to change to a serve-and-volley game.\n\nA few critics were less than impressed by King's victory; she was 26 years younger, and some experts claimed that it was more an age versus youth game. According to Jack Kramer, \"I don't think Billie Jean played all that well. She hit a lot of short balls which Bobby could have taken advantage of had he been in shape. I would never take anything away from Billie Jean—because she was smart enough to prepare herself properly—but it might have been different if Riggs hadn't kept running around. It was more than one woman who took care of Bobby Riggs in Houston.\" Before the match, however, King had forced the American television network ABC to drop Kramer as a commentator. King said, \"He doesn't believe in women's tennis. Why should he be part of this match? He doesn't believe in half of the match. I'm not playing. Either he goes—or I go.\"\n\nAfter the match, Pancho Segura declared that Riggs was only the third best senior player, behind himself and Gardnar Mulloy, and he challenged King to another match. King refused.\n\nThe match had an audience of an estimated 50 million in the U.S. and 90 million worldwide. The attendance in the Houston Astrodome was 30,472; as of 2012, it remains the largest audience to see a tennis match in the United States.\n\nThere was also widespread speculation, based on Riggs’s unusually poor play and large number of unforced errors, that Riggs had purposely lost the match in order to win large sums of money that he had bet against himself, as a way to pay off his gambling debts. ESPN's \"Outside the Lines\" on August 25, 2013 featured a man who had been silent for 40 years who said he heard several members of the mafia talking about Riggs throwing the match in exchange for cancelling his gambling debt to the mob. On the other hand, the article says Riggs' close friend and estate executor Lornie Kuhle vehemently denied he was ever in debt to the mob or received a payoff from them. The article also quotes Riggs' son who claims his father felt he had made a terrible mistake and was depressed for six months following the match. Riggs wanted a rematch but not King. He considered suing her as a rematch had been part of the contract. King and Riggs would appear together spoofing their rivalry less than two months after the match on an episode of \"The Odd Couple\" (titled \"The Pig Who Came To Dinner\") and they became good friends.\n\nKramer wrote, however, that \"Billie Jean beat him fair and square. A lot of men—especially around our age—were so stunned when he lost that they figured he must have tanked. Budge is convinced of that. But what motive would Riggs have for that? Bobby Riggs, the biggest ham in the world, gets his greatest audience—and purposefully looks bad? There's no way. If he had beaten Billie Jean, he could have kept the act going indefinitely. Next they would have had him play Chrissy on clay.\" Selena Roberts claimed in her book documenting the match, \"A Necessary Spectacle\", that Riggs later undertook a public polygraph test to prove he did not throw the match.\n\nKing viewed the match as more than a publicity stunt, feeling that beating Riggs was important both for women's tennis and for the women's liberation movement as a whole. She said later, \"I thought it would set us back 50 years if I didn't win that match. It would ruin the women's tour and affect all women's self-esteem.\" She believed that she had a destiny to work for gender equality in sports.\n\nBillie Jean was part of the Original 9, which formed the Virginia Slims Series, created because the women wanted to end inequality of pay between male and female victors. These nine women created their own tournaments and played wherever they could. Eventually this turned into the Women’s Tennis Association (WTA).\n\nIn 2001, ABC aired a television film about the match between King and Riggs titled \"When Billie Beat Bobby\", starring Holly Hunter and Ron Silver as King and Riggs respectively.\n\nIn 2013, New Black Films released the documentary movie \"Battle of the Sexes\" in cinemas, with television broadcast following soon after. It was directed by James Erskine and Zara Hayes. The film was released on DVD in 2014.\n\nThe 2017 film \"Battle of the Sexes\", directed by Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris, is about the King/Riggs match, and stars Emma Stone and Steve Carell as King and Riggs, respectively.\n\nNineteen years later, a third \"Battle of the Sexes\" match, entitled \"Battle of Champions\", was played in 1992. Outdoors at Caesars Palace in Paradise, Nevada, it matched 40 year-old Jimmy Connors and Martina Navratilova, age 35. Navratilova had previously turned down invitations to take on John McEnroe and Ilie Năstase, as she considered them undignified. The promoters initially tried to match Connors with the then top-ranked female player, Monica Seles. Connors called the match 'war.' Navratilova, on the other hand, called it a battle of egos.\n\nA pay-per-view telecast, the match was played on Friday night, September 25, under hybrid rules to make it more competitive; Connors was allowed only one serve per point, and Navratilova was allowed to hit into half of the doubles alleys. Each player received a $650,000 guarantee, with a further $500,000 for the winner. Connors won 7–5, 6–2, as Navratilova made eight double faults and 36 unforced errors. Connors, too, was nervous and there was a rumor that he had placed a bet on himself to win at 4:1. According to Connors' book \"The Outsider\", he placed a million-dollar bet that he would lose no more than eight games.\n\nIn 1888, the Wimbledon's men's champion, Ernest Renshaw, played a handicap match against the ladies' champion, Lottie Dod, where Dod was starting each game with a 30–0 advantage. The match was played in Exmouth, England, and ended with Renshaw's victory—2–6, 7–5, 7–5.\n\nOn May 27, 1921 Bill Tilden and Suzanne Lenglen played a match at Saint Cloud, France. It was only a single set but Tilden prevailed 6–0. When later asked about the match, Lenglen said, \"Someone won 6–0, but I don't recall who it was.\"\n\nFormer NCAA champion Phil Neer played a two-set match against Helen Wills on January 28, 1933, in San Francisco. Neer had been ranked nationally as high as No. 20 and had occasionally played mixed doubles with Wills. Wills had won at Wimbledon the year prior. Though Neer was only 32, Wills won the match 6–3, 6–4.\n\nOctober 26, 1975 a \"Challenge of the Sexes\" event was held in Mission Viejo, CA televised on CBS. It involved male and female athletes from various sports, such as Laura Baugh and Jane Blalock vs. Hale Irwin and Doug Sanders in golf, and Jerry West vs. Karen Logan in basketball. The tennis event pitted future Wimbledon champion Virginia Wade vs. Björn Borg, and Nastase vs. Evonne Goolagong. A single set was played where the men were limited to one serve and the women had the added area of the alleys for shot placement. Borg, Wade, and Goolagong entered the court in standard attire and demeanor, while Nastase entered wearing a dress. With Martina Navratilova also in the packed audience, Borg defeated Wade 6–3, but Goolagong defeated Nastase 7–5.\n\nOn August 23, 1985, at age 67, Riggs returned to the tennis spotlight when he partnered with Vitas Gerulaitis, at the time a top-20 player, to launch another challenge to female players. He challenged Martina Navratilova and Pam Shriver to a doubles match. Navratilova said that she accepted because she believed she and Pam had no weaknesses when playing doubles, and that they were going to 'do a Billie' and win, especially given Riggs' age. The match took place at The Atlantic City Convention Hall in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Riggs' health had deteriorated somewhat from his last outing as he was now deaf in addition to his poor eyesight. Moreover, because Riggs was a finesse player and not a power player, the women expected that defeating him would be easier than a retired power player. Riggs' return was short lived when the women won 6–3, 6–2, 6–4.\n\nMike Penner (of The \"Los Angeles Times\") wrote: \"The great misconception about 'The Challenge!' was that it might actually serve as a legitimate proving ground for the sexes.\" The sports writer went on to point out that there were things keeping this match from being seriously viewed as a legitimate challenge. \"First, it was a doubles match, not a one-on-one competition. The strategy is different in doubles, weaknesses can be more easily masked and stamina is not nearly so critical a factor.\" The other point to be made: \"Riggs amounted to a 67-year-old ball-and-chain shackled to the ankle of Gerulaitis. Riggs couldn't serve, couldn't return serves, couldn't hit overheads with any amount of force. Older than the combined ages of Navratilova and Shriver, Riggs was painfully out of place in this match. Even John McEnroe, on his finest day, would be an underdog against Navratilova and Shriver if Riggs were his partner.\"\n\nAnother event dubbed a \"Battle of the Sexes\" took place during the 1998 Australian Open between Karsten Braasch and the Williams sisters. Venus and Serena Williams had claimed that they could beat any male player ranked outside the world's top 200, so Braasch, then ranked 203rd, challenged them both. Braasch was described by one journalist as \"a man whose training regime centered around a pack of cigarettes and more than a couple bottles of ice cold lager\". The matches took place on court number 12 in Melbourne Park, after Braasch had finished a round of golf and two shandies. He first took on Serena and after leading 5–0, beat her 6–1. Venus then walked on court and again Braasch was victorious, this time winning 6–2. Braasch said afterwards, \"500 and above, no chance\". He added that he had played like someone ranked 600th in order to keep the game \"fun\". Braasch said the big difference was that men can chase down shots much easier, and that men put spin on the ball that the women can't handle. The Williams sisters adjusted their claim to beating men outside the top 350.\n\nIn December 2003, Yannick Noah and Justine Henin played a friendly match at the Forest National in Brussels. Noah donned a dress for much of the match. He played predominantly trick shots and slices, but still ended up winning 4–6, 6–4, 7–6.\n\nIn October 2013, Novak Djokovic and Li Na played a light-hearted exhibition mini set in Beijing, China to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the China Open. Djokovic clowned to the amusement of the crowd, and at one point swapped places with a ballboy. Li was given a 30–0 advantage at the start of each service game, and she went on to win 3–2.\n\nIn 2013, Andy Murray responded to a Twitter user who asked whether he would consider challenging Serena Williams, saying, \"I’d be up for it. Why not?\" Williams also reacted positively to the suggestion, remarking \"That would be fun. I doubt I’d win a point, but that would be fun.\"\n\nIn August 2015, John McEnroe was interviewed on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\". At that time, McEnroe was 56 years old but still active on the seniors tennis circuit, Serena Williams was 34 years old and in the chase for a \"calendar-year\" Grand Slam. McEnroe mentioned to Kimmel that about 15 years prior, Donald Trump had suggested that he would like to put together a \"battle of the sexes\" match between McEnroe and Williams. McEnroe said he would face Williams but that Trump was not offering a big enough payout. McEnroe said that he believed he could defeat Williams in a tennis match.\n"}
{"id": "1034314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1034314", "title": "Besermyan", "text": "Besermyan\n\nThe Besermyan, Biserman, Besermans or Besermens (, , ) are a numerically small Finno-Ugric ethnic group in Russia.\n\nThe Russian Empire Census of 1897 listed 10,800 Besermans. There were 10,000 Besermans in 1926, but the Russian Census of 2002 found only 3,122 of them. \n\nThe Besermyan live in the districts of Yukamenskoye, Glazov, Balezino, and Yar in the northwest of Udmurtia. There are ten villages of pure Besermyan ethnicity in Russia, and 41 villages with a partial Besermyan population.\n\nThe language of the Besermyan is a dialect of the Udmurt language with Tatar influences.\n\nSome Besermyan traditions differ from other Udmurtian customs due to the Islamic influence during the Volga Bulgaria and Khanate of Kazan periods.\n\n"}
{"id": "33350449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33350449", "title": "Boa people", "text": "Boa people\n\nThe Baboa people (singular \"Boa\", also \"Ababua\", \"Ababwa\", \"Babua\", \"Babwa\", \"Bwa\") are an ethnic group in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\nThey speak the Bwa language.\n\nThe Baboa live in the savanna region in the north of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\nThey are in close contact with the Mangbetu and Zande peoples.\nMost of the inhabitants of the Bas-Uele District, with a population of 900,000 in 2007, are Boa.\nThey live mainly through subsistence farming and hunting, with some river commerce.\n\nThe Baboa are known for their masks, which are thought to be used to enhance a warrior's courage before battle and in ceremonies to celebrate victories.\nThe Boa carve statues designed to ward off evil.\nThey also make harps where the neck has a carved human head, or the whole body represents a male or female figure.\nBetween 1903 and 1910 the Baboa were in rebellion against the Belgian colonial occupiers of the region.\n"}
{"id": "20447787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20447787", "title": "Brian J. Doyle", "text": "Brian J. Doyle\n\nBrian James Doyle (born April 7, 1950) is a former Deputy Press Secretary in the United States Department of Homeland Security. In 2006, he was indicted for seducing a 14-year-old girl, who was actually a sheriff's deputy working undercover, on the internet. He was arrested on April 4, 2006, at his home in Silver Spring, Maryland. Five months later, he pled no contest. On November 17, 2006, he was sentenced to five years in prison, with ten years of probation, and he was registered as a sex offender. Doyle was incarcerated at Wakulla Correctional Institution Annex outside of Tallahassee, Florida. He was released from prison on January 15, 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1606083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1606083", "title": "Burns Club Atlanta", "text": "Burns Club Atlanta\n\nThe Burns Club of Atlanta, officially organized in 1896, is a private social club and literary and cultural society commemorating the works and spirit of the 18th century national poet of Scotland, Robert Burns. In addition to holding monthly meetings, the club has held a Burns supper celebration on the anniversary of Burns' birthday every year since 1898. Club events are held in the Atlanta Burns Cottage, a 1911 replica of poet Robert Burns' birthplace in Alloway, Ayrshire, Scotland. The Cottage has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places as Burns Cottage since 1983.\n\nThe Burns Club of Atlanta is fifty-third in seniority among several hundred organizations recognized by the Scottish-based World Burns Federation. Officially organized on January 25, 1896, the centennial year of Robert Burns’ birth, the Burns Club of Atlanta is quite possibly the city’s oldest surviving cultural and literary society. As early as the 1870s, Burns admirers in Atlanta had been meeting in private homes and hotels to celebrate the birthday of the Scottish poet. Shortly after the club’s formation, plans were made to construct for a clubhouse an exact replica of Robert Burns' birthplace in Alloway, Ayrshire, Scotland. Situated in the East Atlanta neighborhood of Ormewood Park, construction for the Atlanta Burns Cottage was completed in 1911.\n\nThe moving spirit behind the club’s founding was Joseph Jacobs, the Atlanta pharmacist and drug-store owner at whose suggestion Coca-Cola was first carbonated. He served the very first Coca-Cola beverage from his fountain in the Five Points neighborhood of Atlanta. Of German Jewish parentage, Dr. Jacobs illustrates the universal appeal of Robert Burns’ poetry.\n\nSince its organization, the club’s membership has included governors, college presidents, farmers, teachers, clergymen, engineers, lawyers, doctors, artists, salesmen and tradesmen. Membership is limited by space in the Cottage to 100 members. Following club tradition, membership is only open to males. However, non-member male and female guests are frequent and many and are welcome by invitation.\n\nMonthly meetings in the Atlanta Burns Cottage feature readings from Burns’ works and various lectures given by visiting scholars, authorities and members. Previous lecturers include Atlanta author Margaret Mitchell and Scottish entertainer and goodwill ambassador, Sir Henry Lauder. Monthly meetings are noted for relaxed companionship and spirited, yet informal, discussion. Every meeting concludes with the traditional Scottish farewell observance of “circling up” and singing “Auld Lang Syne.”\n\nThe Burns Club of Atlanta retains the honor of having as their clubhouse the only reproduction in the world of Robert Burns' birth home.\n\nAfter the turn of the 20th century the club began an effort to obtain land and erect a cottage to be used as a clubhouse. In 1907 the club purchased in what is now the Ormewood Park neighborhood of Atlanta, at the end of the trolley line on “Dogwood Hill” across from the Confederate Veterans Home on Confederate Avenue (now the site of the Georgia Highway Patrol headquarters).\n\nAtlanta architect and member, Thomas H. Morgan, obtained the exact measurements of the original Burns cottage in Alloway, Scotland, and prepared plans for the Atlanta replica. Construction of the building was supervised by Robert McWhirter, a member of the club and a skilled stonemason, and was finished in 1911 using quarried granite from nearby Stone Mountain instead of traditional mortar and rubble construction found in Burns’ birth home.\n\nThe originally thatched, but now-shingled, roof has shallow eaves and gables that connect directly to the chimneys. The three fireplaces in the cottage are constructed of random stones with mortar joints raised and rounded. The fireplace in the center of the cottage features an inset stone plaque in memory of Burns. Of the three doors on the front of the cottage, only one is used. The cottage’s uncommonly small windows reflect one particular Scottish practice of taxation in which homeowners were taxed according to the dimensions of their home’s window openings. \nThe low, one-story building is generally rectangular, but is slightly curved, as was the original, which accommodated the curve of the road it was built along. The interior of the house is also a close replica of the Scottish cottage, and was divided into the traditional three areas: butt, ben and byre.\n\nThe cottage is managed by a caretaker who lives on the grounds.\n\nOne now enters the Atlanta Burns Cottage through the byre, the Scots word for the portion of the cottage where, in Burn’s original birthplace, animals and farm stuffs were housed. Members of the club now use this room for their monthly meetings. While the club is primarily a literary society, many of the members share Burns’ Scottish heritage and display their clan tartan banners along with several plaques and bas-relief panels situated on plastered walls.\n\nTo the immediate left is the ben, the innermost room of the family dwelling. Originally there was no door between the living quarters and the byre. The ben represents the combined living room and dormitory for the large Burns family. In the Atlanta Burns Cottage it functions as additional space for club events.\n\nTo the far left is found the butt, or the outer room used as kitchen, dining room and parent’s bedroom. The fireplace/stove, cabinet, and plate rack found within this room faithfully portray the original cottage furnishings. The room also features a box-bed that recreates the bed in which Robert Burns was born. The room is now used as an office and space for directors’ meetings. Almost a century of Atlanta Burns Club presidents’ portraits hang on the walls.\n\nThe only remaining outbuilding is a one-story stone caretaker's house, originally a log cabin. It was redesigned in 1969 to bear a closer resemblance to the cottage. The grounds once included a dance pavilion, barbecue pit, a tennis court and putting green for club use. Changes to Burns Cottage include the rear additions of a kitchen, interior porch, restrooms and an external wooden platform used for social events. Other alterations include the replacement of stone-flagged floors with finished concrete, an additional fireplace in the byre and the sealing up of several small windows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54330256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54330256", "title": "Charles Wellford", "text": "Charles Wellford\n\nCharles Franklin Wellford is an American criminologist, emeritus professor in the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice at the University of Maryland–College Park. He previously served as the department's chair. In 1996, the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice there established the Charles Wellford Fellowship in his honor. Since 1995, he has been the chair of the University of Maryland's Athletic Council. He was the president of the American Society of Criminology (ASC) during 1995-96.\nWellford received his bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland in 1961, where he received his master's degree in 1963. In 1969, he received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.\nWellford is known for research on variations in the clearance rate of homicides throughout the United States. For example, a 2001 study he authored concluded that the probability of a killing being solved by law enforcement was higher if a detective arrived at the scene within 30 minutes and quickly looked for witnesses.\nWellford was elected as a fellow of the American Society of Criminology in 1996. In 2011, he received the University of Maryland President's Medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "5182370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5182370", "title": "Crime in Mexico", "text": "Crime in Mexico\n\nCrime is among the most urgent concerns facing Mexico, as Mexican drug trafficking rings play a major role in the flow of cocaine, heroin, and marijuana transiting between Latin America and the United States. Drug trafficking has led to corruption, which has had a deleterious effect on Mexico's Federal Representative Republic. Drug trafficking and organized crime have also been a major source of violent crime in Mexico.\n\nMexico has experienced increasingly high crime rates, especially in major urban centers. The country's great economic polarization has stimulated criminal activity mainly in the lower socioeconomic strata, which include the majority of the country's population. Crime continues at high levels, and is repeatedly marked by violence, especially in the cities of Tijuana and Ciudad Juárez, and the states of Baja California, Durango, Sinaloa, Guerrero, Chihuahua, Michoacán, Tamaulipas, and Nuevo León. Other metropolitan areas have lower, yet still serious, levels of crime. Low apprehension and conviction rates contribute to the high crime rate. Since many crimes go unreported, the rates may be much higher than reported by the government. The murder rate in 2015 was 14 per 100,000. Most of the crime is committed by a small proportion of the population involved in the drug trade with about half of murders drug related.\n\nAssault and theft make up the vast majority of crimes. While urban areas tend to have higher crime rates, as is typical in most countries, the United States–Mexico border has also been a problematic area. In 2017, Mexico witnessed a record number of murders with 29,158 homicides recorded.\n\nMexico is Latin America's most dangerous country for journalists according to the Global Criminality Index 2016. A large number of these crimes go unpunished, which has led to campaigns in the press and demonstrations highlighting the supposed 'impunity' of those responsible for murdering investigative journalists.\n\nIn 2012, Mexico had a murder rate of 21.5 per 100,000 population. There were a total of 26,037 murders in Mexico in 2012.\nBetween 2000 and 2013, 215,000 people in Mexico were murdered. By 2013 there were only 30,800 people incarcerated for murder, showing that there is a large number of murders that go unsolved. In October 2017, Mexico suffered its deadliest month since it started keeping such data in 1997, with 2,371 murder investigations. 2017 was Mexico's deadliest year on record, with 31,174 murders recorded, leading to a murder rate of 25 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2017, compared with 19.4 in 2011. In May 2018, Mexico broke the previous deadliest month on record set in October with 2,530 reported cases of intentional homicides during the month, or 93 per day. \n\nThe state of Chihuahua ranked number one with the most homicide in the country, the least was Baja California Sur.\n\nThe United States is a lucrative market for illegal drugs. The United Nations estimates that nearly 90% of cocaine sold in the United States originates in South America and is smuggled through Mexico. Mexico is the largest foreign supplier of marijuana and the largest source of heroin for the U.S. market. The majority of methamphetamine sold in the United States is made in Mexico, and Mexican-run methamphetamine labs that operate north of the border account for much of the remainder.\n\nMexican drug cartels play a major role in the flow of cocaine, heroin, and marijuana transiting between Latin America and the United States. These drug cartels often use Mexican-American and other Latino gangs to distribute their narcotics in United States.\n\nMexican drug cartels also have ties to Colombian drug traffickers, and other international organized crime. A sharp spike in drug-related violence has some analysts worrying about the 'Colombianization' of Mexico.\n\nSome illegal drugs are also produced in Mexico, including significant amounts of opium poppy, and marijuana in the western Sierra Madre Mountains region.\nMexico has increasingly become a major producer of amphetamines and other synthetic drugs in the North American market (e.g. crystal), especially in the states of Guerrero, Michoacán, Jalisco and the Distrito Federal. Since early 2007, the export of manufactured drugs has been controlled by the Beltran-Leyva brothers (Sonora-Sinaloa-DF) and \"la Familia de Michoacán\". These two crime groups have controlled the corridors from the deep sea port of Lázaro Cárdenas in Michoacán, where precursor products to manufacture synthetic drugs are imported from Asia.\n\nMarijuana, crack cocaine, methamphetamine, and other drugs are increasingly consumed in Mexico, especially by youths in urban areas and northern parts of the country.\n\nHigh levels of corruption in the police, judiciary, and government in general have contributed greatly to the crime problem. Corruption is a significant obstacle to Mexico's achieving a stable democracy.\n\nMexico is ranked the 123rd least corrupt country in the world which makes them less corrupt than Moldova and more corrupt than Laos. This is according to the Corruption Perceptions Index, which is based on 13 different surveys and includes police, business, and political corruption.\n\nThe organization of police forces in Mexico is complex; each police force has a different level of jurisdiction and authority, and those levels often overlap. The \"Procuraduría General de la República\" (Federal Attorney General's office) along with the law enforcement agencies \"Policia Federal Preventiva\" and \"Agencia Federal de Investigación\", has responsibility for overseeing law enforcements across the entire country. In addition, there are several police organizations at the state, district, and city level. Since pay is generally poor (U.S.$285–$400 per month), police officers are more likely to accept bribes to protect criminals or ignore crime entirely. Law enforcement personnel are often presented with the option of choosing \"Plata o Plomo\"; meaning they can either accept a bribe (\"plata\", for silver) or they will be killed (\"plomo\", for lead).\n\nCorruption plagues the various levels of police, and is frequently difficult to track down and prosecute since police officers may be protected by district attorneys and other members of the judiciary. The problem is especially pronounced in northern border areas such as Tijuana, where police are engaged by drug traffickers to protect and enforce their illicit interests.\n\nThe Mexican police force often do not investigate crimes, will generally randomly select someone to be the guilty party then fabricate the evidence. This issue is a major problem throughout Mexico as many of the actual police force are the ones involved in the crimes or are trying to cover up their poor police work.\n\nA United Nations Special Rapporteur undertook a mission to Mexico in 2002 to investigate reports by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights that the country's judiciary and administration of law was not independent. During the course of his visit to a number of cities, the rapporteur observed that corruption in the judiciary had not been reduced significantly. One of the principal issues is that, because the federal courts operate at a relatively high level, most citizens are compelled to seek justice in the inadequate state courts.\n\nAdditionally, the rapporteur expressed concerns about such issues as disorganization in the legal profession, difficulties and harassment faced by lawyers, poor trial procedures, poor access to the justice system for indigenous peoples and minors, and lacklustre investigation of many crimes.\n\nA significant increase in violent crime against journalists has been encountered in the country in recent years. Although the problem has existed since at least 1970, the amount of violence against journalist has intensified since the beginning of the Mexican Drug War, with at least 90 journalists murdered or disappeared in Mexico since 2006. Few of the perpetrators have been brought to justice. One of the more prominent cases was that of syndicated columnist Francisco Arratia Saldierna, a prominent and well-known journalist who wrote a column called \"Portavoz\" (or \"Spokesman\"). The column featured topics such as corruption, organized crime, and drug trafficking.\n\nArratia's murder, which was particularly brutal, and others like it, sparked demands from other journalists that then-President Vicente Fox do more to enforce security and bring those responsible for the murders to justice. In 2004, a group of 215 reporters and editors sent an urgent letter to President Fox and other federal authorities, demanding that they address these concerns. The letter represented a massive communication effort coming from professionals from 19 of the nation's 31 states. The key demand was that violent crimes against journalists be made federal crimes, so they would be investigated and prosecuted by federal officers and not by local officials whom the letter claims could be the same people who commit the crimes.\n\nThe effect of these crimes has been the self-censorship of many journalists, due to fears of retribution from criminals. The situation has earned attention from prominent global organizations such as the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and the Center for Journalism and Public Ethics (CEPET). Amerigo Incalcaterra of the OHCHR advocated the protection of journalists and the preservation of freedom of speech, calling it \"essential for the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law in this country\".\n\nOver 30,000 people in Mexico have been reported missing in 2016.\n\nAs of 2014, Mexico has the 16th highest rate of homicides committed against women in the world. This rate has been on the rise since 2007.\n\nAccording to the 2013 Human Rights Watch, many women do not seek out legal redress after being victims of domestic violence and sexual assault because \"the severity of punishments for some sexual offenses contingent on the \"chastity\" of the victim\" and \"those who do report them are generally met with suspicion, apathy, and disrespect.\"\n\nAccording to a 1997 study by Kaja Finkler, domestic abuse \"is embedded in gender and marital relations fostered in Mexican women's dependence on their spouses for subsistence and for self-esteem, sustained by ideologies of romantic love, by family structure and residential arrangements.\"\n\nIn Mexico city, the area of Iztapalapa has the highest rates of rape, violence against women, and domestic violence in the capital.\n\nGender violence is more prevalent in regions along the Mexico-US border and in areas of high drug trading activity and drug violence. The phenomenon of the female homicides in Ciudad Juárez involves the violent deaths of hundreds of women and girls since 1993 in the northern Mexican region of Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, a border city across the Rio Grande from the U.S. city of El Paso, Texas. As of February 2005, the number of murdered women in Ciudad Juarez since 1993 is estimated to be more than 370.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2004 an average of 478 crimes were reported each day in Mexico City. The actual crime rate is thought to be much higher \"since most people are reluctant to report crime.\" Under policies enacted by Mayor Marcelo Ebrard between 2009 and 2011, Mexico City underwent a major security upgrade with violent and petty crime rates both falling significantly despite the rise in violent crime in other parts of the country. Some of the policies enacted included the installation of 11,000 security cameras around the city and a very large expansion of the city police force.\n\nMexico City currently has one of the highest police officer to resident ratios in the world, with one uniformed police officer per every 100 citizens. The murder rate in 2009 was 8.4 per 100,000 — by comparison, higher than the 5.6 in New York City but much less than the 14.8 in Atlanta.\n\nIn Mexico City, the area of Iztapalapa has the highest rates of rape, violence against women, and domestic violence in the capital.\n\nAccording to the CNDH, only one out of every ten crimes is reported in Mexico; this is due to lack of trust from citizens to the authorities. Furthermore, only one out of 100 reported crimes actually goes to sentencing.\n\nA significant number of United States citizens visit Mexico; the U.S. State Department estimates it at 15 to 16 million per year. Tourists visiting Mexico may face a number of problems related to criminal activity, including:\n\nDue to crime reaching a critical level in Mexico City and many other areas, tourism to Mexico has suffered.\n\nRecently, Verdugo-Yepes, Pedroni and Hu () applies a panel structural vector autoregression model to model the effects of crime on GDP growth and foreign direct investment (FDI) at the state and national level.\n\nMexican law enforcement is divided between federal, state, and municipal entities. Estimates range between 1,600 and 3,000 different police forces in total. There are over 350,000 police agents in Mexico.\n\nAt all levels, policing in Mexico tends to maintain separate forces for patrol/response (preventive) policing on the one hand and investigative (judicial) policing on the other.\n\nIn June 2005, the government deployed federal forces to three states to contain surging violence linked to organized crime. At a news conference in Mexico City, presidential spokesman Rubén Aguilar told reporters that the new deployment was the result of evidence that organized crime has penetrated some local police departments.\n\nIn response to a rise in violent crime in the region of Tijuana, considered one of the five most violent areas of the country by the U.S. State Department, mayor Jorge Hank Rhon deployed a massive technology update to the city's police force in February 2006. The technology includes surveillance equipment, handheld computers, and alarm systems. Since tourism is a staple of the economy in Tijuana, the mayor has tried to make reforms to highlight the safety of tourist areas.Tijuana has installed a sophisticated public-security system that is the envy of police departments around the world, but city officials don't seem to know details about how it is funded or the background of the company that supplied it.\n\nPresident Vicente Fox took power in December 2000 promising to crack down on crime and improve a judicial system rife with corruption and ineptitude. Upon taking office, he established a new ministry of Security and Police, doubled the pay for police officers, and committed to other ethics reforms. President Fox also cited drug trafficking and drug consumption as the top cross-border priority issue.\n\nDuring the first three years of Fox's government, the official number of reported kidnappings showed a slight decrease, from 505 in 2001 to 438 in 2003. The new Federal Investigation Agency (\"Procuraduria de Justicia\") reported dismantling 48 kidnapping rings and saving 419 victims.\n\nIn 1996, Mexico changed its policy to allow extradition of its citizens to the United States to face trial. Previously, the Constitution had forbidden its citizens to be extradited.\n\nIn 2005, the U.S. State Department defended efforts by the two countries to reduce violence and drug trafficking on the border following decisions by governors in the U.S. states of Arizona and New Mexico to declare an emergency in their border counties. The two governors stated that the federal government's inability to control crime and violence related to illegal immigration had forced them to take matters into their own hands. The Mexican government criticized the emergency declarations.\n\nThe U.S. state of Texas and Mexican police officials held a conference in San Antonio to discuss ways of coordinating efforts to stop crime but there are questions about how successful the program will be.\n\nMany Mexican police officials in border towns have been targets of assassination by drug cartels, who have even threatened local law enforcement in the United States. Drug cartels have even acquired equipment like Mexican Army uniforms, Humvees, grenades and .50 calibre sniper rifles which can penetrate most light armour including armoured cars. The United States ambassador launched a formal complaint with the government on this issue.\n\nIn January 2003, the security consulting company of former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani was hired by business leaders to come up with a plan to clean up Mexico City, which has the second-highest crime rate in Latin America. If such a plan was developed, it was either not implemented or not effective. Further information about the plan was not provided by the government nor Giuliani.\n\nIn June 2004, at least a million people marched through the Mexican capital and other cities to protest the failure of federal and local governments to control crime in one of the world's most crime-ridden countries.\n\nIn 2008, a second civilian protest was made after independent NGOs exhorted the public, again, at least one million people attended over Mexico City and other major cities all across Mexico. On this second march candles were lit and the national anthem was played. The protest generated more public attention perhaps because in this same year, a 12-year-old son of the Marti family, owners of a prominent well-known sports gear business, was abducted and murdered. In the same year, a similar situation occurred to the 19-year-old daughter of Nelson Vargas, a businessman and former government representative. These two cases brought great public attention since the scale of crime and violence was very rare to hit over certain social groups, being these amongst the most remarkable exemptions.\n\nIn its effort to combat crime, the Mexican army was accused of crimes against of humanity by several NGOs. In September 2014, several Mexican human rights groups and International Federation for Human Rights, had filed a complaint with the office of the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, asking it to investigate the “systematic and widespread” abuse of thousands of civilians by the army and the police in their fight against organized crime.\n\n\nMexican Drug War:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "239246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239246", "title": "D. C. Stephenson", "text": "D. C. Stephenson\n\nDavid Curtiss \"Steve\" Stephenson (August 21, 1891 – June 28, 1966) was a convicted murderer and rapist, who in 1923 was appointed Grand Dragon (state leader) of the branch of the Ku Klux Klan in Indiana and head of Klan recruiting for seven other states. Later that year, he led those groups to independence from the national KKK organization. Amassing wealth and political power in Indiana politics, he was one of the most prominent national Klan leaders. \"He was viewed as responsible for reviving the Klan and widening its base, and considered the most powerful man in Indiana\". He had close relationships with numerous Indiana politicians, especially Governor Edward L. Jackson.\n\nIn 1925 Stephenson was tried and convicted (\"Stephenson v. State\") for the notorious abduction, rape, and murder of a young white woman, Madge Oberholtzer, a state education official. His trial, conviction and imprisonment ended the portrayal of Klan leaders as law abiding. \"The case and its fallout effectively destroyed the Klan in Indiana, and it may have reversed its ascendency as a national political force.\" Denied a pardon by Governor Jackson, in 1927 he started talking with reporters for the \"Indianapolis Times\" and released a list of elected and other officials who had been in the pay of the Klan. This led to a wave of indictments in Indiana, more national scandals, the rapid loss of tens of thousands of members, and the end of the second wave of Klan activity in the late 1920s.\n\nStephenson was born in Houston, Texas on August 21, 1891, and moved as a child with his family to Maysville, Oklahoma. After some public schooling, he started work as a printer's apprentice and was active in the Populist Party.\n\nDuring World War I, he enlisted in the Army and completed officers' training. He never served overseas, but his training proved useful when he organized and led groups.\n\nIn 1920 at the age of 29, he moved to Evansville, Indiana, where he worked for a retail coal company. He joined the Democratic Party and in 1922, ran unsuccessfully for a Democratic Congressional nomination. He was said to have already \"married and abandoned two wives\" before settling in Evansville.\n\nJoseph M. Huffington, whom the Ku Klux Klan had sent from Texas as an agent for organizing in Evansville, recruited Stephenson to the group's inner circle. The historian Leonard Moore characterized them as both young men on the make. The Evansville Klavern became the most powerful in the state, and Stephenson soon contributed to attracting numerous new members. More than 5,400 men, or 23 percent of the native-born white men in Vanderburgh County, ultimately joined the Klan.\n\nBuilding on the momentum, Stephenson set up a base in Indianapolis, where he helped create the Klan's state newspaper, \"Fiery Cross\". He quickly recruited new agents and organizers, building on news about the organization. Protestant ministers were offered free membership. In Indiana from July 1922 to July 1923, nearly 2,000 new members joined the Klan each week. Hiram Wesley Evans, who led recruiting for the national organization, maintained close ties to state leaders throughout 1921-1922 and he was especially close to Stephenson, because by then, Indiana had the largest state Klan organization. Stephenson backed Evans in November 1922 when he unseated William J. Simmons as Imperial Wizard of the national KKK. Evans had ambitions to make the Klan a political force in the country.\n\nAfter Evans won, he officially appointed Stephenson as Grand Dragon of Indiana. Privately he made him head of recruiting for seven other states north of Mississippi. In the 1920s, Klan membership grew dramatically in these states. In Indiana, membership grew to nearly 250,000 or about one third of all white males in the state. Stephenson acquired great wealth and political power by leading the Klan; agents received a portion of fees paid by new recruits, and he began to wield other powers. Evans, who had a monopoly on the sale of Klan uniforms and paraphernalia, appointed Stephenson as Grand Dragon of the Indiana Klan at a 1923 Fourth of July gathering of the Klan in Kokomo, Indiana, with more than 100,000 members and their families in attendance. Stephenson said,\n\nMy worthy subjects, citizens of the Invisible Empire, Klansmen all, greetings. It grieves me to be late. The President of the United States kept me unduly long counseling on matters of state. Only my plea that this is the time and the place of my coronation obtained for me surcease from his prayers for guidance.\n\nEncouraged by his success, in September 1923, Stephenson severed his ties with the existing national organization of the KKK, and formed a rival KKK that was made up of the chapters which he led. That year Stephenson changed his affiliation from the Democratic to the Republican Party, which was predominant in Indiana and much of the Midwest. He notably supported Republican Edward L. Jackson, who was rumored to be a Klan member, when Jackson ran (successfully) for governor in 1924. Stephenson was noted for having claimed, \"I am the law in Indiana.\" \n\nShortly after, he made this remark on 12 May 1924 at an assembly in the Cadle Tabernacle in Indianapolis:\"God help the man who issues a proclamation of war against the Klan in Indiana now ... We are going to Klux Indiana as she has never been Kluxed before ... I'll appeal to the ministers of Indiana to do the praying for the Ku Klux Klan and I'll do the scrapping for it ... And the fiery cross is going to burn at every crossroads in Indiana, as long as there is a white man left in the state.\"\n\nPublicly a Prohibitionist and a defender of \"Protestant womanhood,\" Stephenson was tried in 1925 for the rape and murder of Madge Oberholtzer, a young state employee who ran a state program to combat adult illiteracy. During the trial, the Klan's image as upholders of law and morality were gravely weakened as it was proven that Stephenson and many of his associates were in private womanizers and alcoholics. The scandal of the charges and trial led to the rapid decline in the \"Second Wave\" of Klan activity. Stephenson was convicted of the abduction, forced intoxication, and rape of Oberholtzer. His abuse led to her suicide attempt while she was still in his captivity. Because the suicide attempt eventually caused Oberholtzer's death, Stephenson was also charged with murder.\n\nStephenson had bitten her many times during his attack. The attending doctor described her condition as consisting of a significant bite on her breast. He later testified that the bite wounds that Stephenson inflicted on her were a leading contributor to her death due to a staph infection that eventually reached her lungs. The doctor also testified that she could have been saved if she had been given medical attention sooner. In her dying declaration, Oberholtzer claimed that Stephenson had refused to give her medical attention unless she agreed to marry him first. The jury convicted Stephenson of second-degree murder on 14 November 1925, on its first ballot. Stephenson was sentenced to life in prison on 16 November 1925.\n\nAfter his conviction, Governor Jackson refused to grant Stephenson clemency or commute his sentence. On 9 September 1927, Stephenson released lists of public officials who were or had been on the Klan payroll. The \"Indianapolis Times\" interviewed Stephenson and proceeded with an extended investigation of the Klan's political ties. (The \"Times\" won a Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for its investigative reporting.) This publicity and the state's crackdown on Klan activity sped up the decline of the organization by the end of the 1920s. The KKK suffered a dramatic nationwide loss of reputation and its membership rapidly fell from 5 million in 1925; few Klan members were counted in the organization's former Midwestern stronghold soon after.\n\nThe state filed indictments against Governor Jackson; George V. \"Cap\" Coffin, chairman of the Marion County Republican Party; and attorney Robert I. Marsh, charging them with conspiring to bribe former Governor Warren McCray. The mayor of Indianapolis, John Duvall, was convicted and sentenced to jail for 30 days (and barred from political service for four years). Some Republican commissioners of Marion County resigned from their posts after being charged with accepting bribes from the Klan and Stephenson.\n\nOn 7 January 1941, the Valparaiso \"Vidette-Messenger\" reported that Governor M. Clifford Townsend, a Democrat, was considering granting an early parole to Stephenson. No parole was approved that year. Stephenson was paroled on 23 March 1950 by a Democratic administration, but violated parole by disappearing on or before 25 September 1950. On 15 December 1950, he was captured in Minneapolis and returned to custody. He was sentenced in 1951 to serve 10 years in prison. In 1953, he pleaded for release, denying that he had ever been a leader of the Klan. On 22 December 1956, the state paroled him, on condition that he leave Indiana and never return. Stephenson relocated to Seymour, Indiana, where he soon married Martha Dickinson (they were separated less than a year later).\n\nStephenson then moved to Jonesborough, Tennessee (the town name was briefly spelled as \"Jonesboro\" during this time), where he was employed at the Jonesboro \"Herald & Tribune\", and where he also married Martha Murray Sutton without having been divorced from Dickinson.\n\nIn 1961, at the age of 70, Stephenson was arrested in Independence, Missouri on charges of attempting to sexually assault a sixteen-year-old girl but he was later released after paying a $300 fine because the charges were dropped on grounds of insufficient evidence. He was ordered to leave Missouri immediately. A few years later, in 1966, Stephenson died at his home in Jonesborough, Tennessee and he was buried at the USVA Mountain Home National Cemetery in Johnson City, Tennessee.\n\n\n\n\nFindAGrave memorial FindAGrave memorial \n"}
{"id": "36365354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36365354", "title": "Dodai tribe", "text": "Dodai tribe\n\nDodai tribe is a branch of \"Hoth\" Baloch tribe which is found in Balochistan, south Punjab and northern Sindh.\nMalik Sohrab Dodai\n\n"}
{"id": "21432995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21432995", "title": "Domestic violence in Australia", "text": "Domestic violence in Australia\n\nIn Australia, domestic violence is defined by Family Law Act 1975 as \"violent, threatening or other behaviour by a person that coerces or controls a member of the person's family, or causes the family member to be fearful\".\n\nThe Act refers to acts of violence that occur between people who have, or have had, an intimate relationship in domestic settings. Domestic violence includes violence between partners of both sexes, including same-sex relationships. However, the term can be altered by each state's legislation and can broaden the spectrum of domestic violence, such as in Victoria, where family-like relationships and witnessing any type of violence in the family is defined as a family violence.\n\nTo refer to domestic violence, in Australia, states chose to name them differently. As such, in Australia domestic violence, depending on the state, it's called \"domestic violence\", \"family violence\", \"domestic and family violence\" and \"domestic abuse\".\n\nA survey of domestic violence data in Australia revealed that 1 in 3 women and 1 in 5 men have experienced at least one incident of violence from a current or former partner since the age of 15.\n\nOn average between 2010 and 2012, every 10 days a male died as a result of family violence, with a total of 75 over the period, whilst in 2015, Females accounted for almost two thirds (65%) of all victims of FDV–related Homicide in Australia in 2015 (103 victims)\n\nBetween 2014 and 2016 there were 264,028 domestic violence incidents reported and recorded. However, Australian Bureau of Statistics's released data revealed that 80% of women and 95% of men who had experienced violence from a current partner never contacted the police. The most common reason for not reporting was cited as fear of revenge or further violence from the current partner. Between 2014 and 2015, 2,800 women and 560 men were hospitalised after being assaulted by a spouse or partner.\n\nA paper published in Melbourne in 2016, revealed that from 121,251 domestic violence incidents recorded over a 2 year period,more than 21% involved alcohol by either or both parties.\n\nA critical report by Australian Institute of Health and Welfare in 2018 revealed that 1 in 6 (approximately 1.5 million) women and 1 in 9 (approximately 992,000 men) were physically and/or sexually abused before the age of 15. The same report revealed that 72,000 women, 34,000 children and 9,000 men employed homelessness services in 2016–17 due to domestic violence.\n\nIn 1996, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) held a national survey, entitled 'Women's Safety Survey' which provided the first comprehensive national data on all forms of violence against women.\n\nIn 1997, John Howard, the prime minister of Australia brought together the heads of all states and territories and acknowledged the domestic violence phenomena across Australia and set to work together to resolve the issue. In the same year, the Commonwealth Government of Australia committed $50 million to test preventive measures and practices to address domestic violence. The program was called 'Partnerships Against Domestic Violence' and was founded until 2003. Along with the said founding, Centrelink started providing emergency crisis payments to women who were victims of domestic violence.\n\nDuring that same year, the Commonwealth government established the '\"Partnerships'\" programme which provided $157 million for each state and territory for the \"'Supported Accommodation Assistance Programme\"' which provides transitional support and accommodation to homeless people, many of whom are women escaping domestic violence.\n\nThe '\"Partnerships\"' programme has sponsored more than 100 projects to explore practices at local, regional and national levels. Those projects included development of competency standards, worker training, research into domestic violence, community awareness products and better coordination systems between police and the justice system. The program also established the \"'Australian Domestic Violence Clearinghouse\"' which gathers research and publications from each state and territory of Australia but also from overseas.\n\nIn 1997–2001, The National Indigenous Family Violence Grants Programme was initiated by the Commonwealth Government and provided $6 million over the 4-year period. The grant was aimed at helping local indigenous communities to reduce family violence. They were assisted by a mentoring team which provided advice on project management, self-documentation and self-evaluation.\n\nIn 2001 the Federal Government established the National Initiative to Combat Sexual Assault with funding of $16.5 million over four years and was administered by Office of the Status of Women. In 2004 - 2005, an additional $6.7m was granted to NICSA.\n\nBetween August and December 2005, the Australian Bureau of Statistics conducted another \"Personal Safety Survey\" and on 21 Aug 2006, ABS released its findings. ABS interviewed 16,400 people \"in all States and Territories.\" The release of the survey included comparison to the \"1996 Women's Safety Survey.\" The survey revealed that the physical threat dropped significantly from 1996 to 2005.\n\nIn March 2009, the Department of Social Services released an economic report entitled \"'The Cost of Violence against Women and their Children'.\" The report revealed that between 2002 and 2003, the cost of domestic violence was estimated at $8.1 billion. The report also revealed the fact that if no action is taken against this phenomenon, by 2021–2022, the figure will double, amounting to $15.6 billion. The largest contributor being pain, suffering and premature mortality, estimated at $7.5 billion.\n\nIn 2014, Australian Bureau of Statistics recorded 95 victims of family and domestic violence-related homicides. With the largest numbers of victims in Victoria (32), followed by New South Wales (30).\n\nIn March 2015, the Australian Senate under \"Finance and Public Administration References Committee\" issued an interim report regarding domestic violence in Australia. The interim report contained a total of 8 recommendations. The recommendation of 'inclusion of respectful relationships education in the national curriculum' was probably the one that stood out and provided an opportunity to create a positive change, starting with children. The interim report followed, among others, the submission from \"Australian Women Against Violence Alliance\" regarding the domestic violence issue. AWAVA conducted its own research into the matter and issued a number of recommendations, including the inclusion of respectful relationships in youth education.\n\nOn 24 September 2015, the prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, announced a founding of another $100 million for measures to protect victims of domestic violence.\n\nIn 2016, the federal government of Australia, announced a 3-year plan for tackling domestic violence entitled 'Family and Domestic Violence Strategy 2016 - 2019'.\n\nOn 14 October 2015, Pru Goward, the NSW Minister for the Prevention of Domestic Violence, stated that the government would provide a $60m package to tackle some of the most serious domestic violence problems. From those, $15m will fund 6 domestic violence 'High Risk Offender Teams', $4.1m for 24 new domestic violence liaison officers, $19.5m into mandated perpetrator behaviour change programs to provide treatment for offenders (to treat them just like those for drug or alcohol addictions). Another $20m will be spent for increasing the housing for those affected, $2.3m for police partnerships with other organisations and $1.3m over 4 years to increase the numbers of Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners in rural areas.\n\nIn March 2015, New South Wales Premier Mike Baird announced a pilot of the Domestic Violence Disclosure Scheme (DVDS) an adaptation of Clare's Law which was seen as a success in the United Kingdom.\n\nThrough the scheme, victims are given the option to seek out information about his/her partner regarding any history of domestic violence. In the future, the scheme could also be extended to friends and family members who may have concerns about the affected person's partner.\n\nThe DVDS is being piloted in four NSW Police Force Areas:\n\nFrom the beginnings of the scheme and public enquiry into the matter, a \"right to ask\" model has been proposed, such as that in the UK.\n\nIn the current form of the scheme, only a person of 16 years of age or older can make an application. Indifferent of the domestic partner's criminal history, the disclosure, it will be made within 2 weeks from the date of the application and will be made in person by a police officer assisted by a social worker.\n\nInformation disclosed include relevant convictions of family violence, other serious convictions such as sexual offences, child abuse offences or murder and the date of conviction (case by case).\n\nA third party to a relationship can make an application of disclosure, similar to that of a \"person at risk application\". The third party must be a family member, friend or a professional that has ongoing relationship with the person who may be at risk.\n\nPolice will disclose the information to the person at risk only, within two weeks of the application, in the presence of a specialist social worker. The third party who has made the application, can be present at the disclosure, provided that he or she is invited by the person at risk for whom the application was made. \n\nVictoria has been at the forefront of family violence policy development and reform in Australia for the past 15 years and has been influential in propelling reforms in other Australian and international jurisdictions.\n\nIn 2002, the Victorian Law Reform Commission's review of family violence laws sparked a number of changes in Victoria. The Law Reform Commission was part of the 2005 integrated service system developed by the Victorian government. Among those, the Magistrates Court of Victoria introduced a specialist Family Violence Court Division, integrated family violence support services, Magistrates’ Court Family Violence Taskforce and released its own paper entitled \"Response to Family Violence 2015–2017\".\n\nIn 2008, in Victoria, the government introduced new laws to tackle family violence. As such, the Family Violence Protection Act 2008 was adopted and, for the first time, broad family, past relationships and 'family-like' relationships are included in the law.\n\nFamily Violence Protection Act 2008 states:\"Family violence is any behaviour that in any way controls or dominates a family member and causes them to feel fear for their own, or other family member's safety or well-being. It can include physical, sexual, psychological, emotional or economic abuse and any behaviour that causes a child to hear, witness, or otherwise be exposed to the effects of that behaviour.\"The Act also recognises that violence also occurs in gay and lesbian relationships at similar levels to heterosexual relationships, although some forms of abuse are unique for people who identify as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or intersex.\n\nIn 2016, following a Royal Commission into Family Violence, the Victorian government committed $572m to tackle the problem. Among others, the premier Daniel Andrews stated:\"We'll overhaul our broken support system from the bottom up\"The premier also stated that in 2015, 37 Victorians had been murdered by a family member:\"We failed every single one of them.\"\"It's Australia's number one law and order issue but it's taken us too long to admit it.\"In the 2015 - 2016 Victorian budget, the government provided $81.3 million to support the work of the Royal Commission into Family Violence. In addition to the direct family violence found insertion, a further $257 million was provided to child protection services and $48.1 to Child FIRST to improve early intervention.\n\nIn 2017, the Victorian Government had another review of its action plan to tackle Family Violence. In the review, the government made some significant changes to tackle the family violence problem and provided a 10 year plan. Among others, in 2017, Victorian Government introduced \"Respectful relationships\" program for schools after a successful trial in 2016.\n\nVictoria Police Crime Statistics Official release regarding the family violence incidents.\n\nIn the wake of a series of family violence related deaths in Victoria, most notably the death of 11 year old Luke Batty, who was killed by his father on 12 February 2014, a Royal Commission into Family Violence was ordered by the government of Victoria.\n\nOn 22 February 2015, the Governor of Victoria, Alex Chernov, signed the letters patent appointing former Justice Marcia Neave as Commissioner and Patricia Faulkner and Tony Nicholson as Deputy Commissioners to the Royal Commission into Family Violence.\n\nOn 29 March 2016, after 13 months and 25 days of hearings, the Royal Commission provided its report and recommendations to the government. The released report consists of 8 volumes and contains 227 recommendations, directed at improving the foundations of the current system.\n\nRoyal Commission found a strong foundation for future response, which included\n\nThe Commission found a number of limitations in the current system which included:\n\nIn response to the recommendations of the Victoria Police Violence Against Women Review, in August 2004, Victoria Police developed a Code of Practice which has since suffered a number of revisions in accordance with modified legislation, new procedures or change of the policing environment. Currently, Victoria Police has compulsory action for any reported family violence incident and must act in all circumstances.\n\nVictoria Police regards family violence as extremely serious and has a pro-charge code of practice. The organisation sees the nature of violence in family relationships as particularly insidious because it is an abuse of trust. There is often a continuing threat to the victim’s safety or to their life, or the lives of their children and sometimes to extended family members.\n\nPolice may receive reports of family violence direct from the affected family member or members of their family, including children, or from a friend, neighbour, members of the public, anonymous person or from another agency. The report may be made by telephone, in person at a police station or by any other means. Police may also detect family violence in the course of their normal duties.\n\nSince the Code of Practice has been drafted, police \"must respond\" as a priority (unless it is clear that the report relates to a past incident and there is no risk of imminent danger or the person is seeking advice only) and \"take action\" on any family violence incident reported to them, regardless of who made the report or how it was made. The action taken is based on risk assessment and risk management, regardless of whether the affected family member makes a verbal complaint or written statement.\n\nIn 2011, Victoria Police launched its enhanced Family Violence Service Delivery Model and established specialist family violence teams across the state, mostly in high-demand locations.\n\nIn 2015, Victoria Police established a Family Violence Command as a central point for family violence within Victoria Police. It is the first police force in Australia to do so.\n\nThe Victorian government, in a bid to tackle family violence, gave police officers new powers, such as: holding powers, non-criminal options if there is not enough evidence to charge the respondent, seizure of firearms and other weapons, entry to premises and search of persons.\n\nThe new Code of Practice set out new mandatory action by Victorian Police officers responding to family violence:\n\nIn 2012 the Domestic and Family Violence Protection Act was amended to reflect contemporary understandings of domestic and family violence. Examples of relationships that fall under the new act are same-sex relationships and \"one-night stands\" where a child is produced.\n\nTasmania operates under Family Violence Act 2004, which was adopted on 17 December 2004. The Act refers only to the context of a spouse or partner relationship.\n\nFamily Violence Act 2004, as opposed to the national Family Law Act 1975 and other states such as Victoria where family violence has a broader meaning, Tasmanian government elected to strictly define family violence criminally, economically and emotional.\n\nIn 2003 the Tasmanian government released '\"Options Paper Safe at Home: A Criminal Justice Framework for Responding to Family Violence in Tasmania'\" . Its aim was to provide a framework for the discussion of legislative and justice related service delivery options. Before this, in Tasmania the term '\"family violence\"' or '\"domestic violence\"' was not defined in legislation. The term \"'family violence\"' has been preferred to the other. The paper analysed actions and legislation of the other states and has set the standards for the action against family violence in Tasmania.\n\nIn October 2013, Tasmanian Police stated that the family violence incidents in Tasmania were on a decreasing trend for the past several years. However, in 2015, since Rosie Batty's case and the increased awareness of domestic violence, Tasmania Police revealed that the numbers are quite high with more than 50 new cases each week, Tasmanian Police Commissioner Darren Hine stating \"It's quite a horrific figure\". In May 2016, Commissioner Hine stated that 400 more incidents were reported compared with the same period of 2015, stating that's 20% increase from previous year whilst there are still between 40% and 80% family violence incidents not being reported.\n\nOn 31 August 2015, the government of Tasmania released '\"Safe Homes, Safe Families: Tasmania’s Family Violence Action Plan 2015-2020 (Safe Homes, Safe Families)\"' program to tackle family violence. Through this plan, the government committed an additional $25.57 million over 4 years.\n\nPolice have various powers under the Justices Act 1959 and the Police Offences Act 1935 to respond to family violence situations. The adopted Tasmanian act, \"Family Violence Act 2004\" gave Tasmanian Police new powers to deal with family violence, such as: entering private property, arresting perpetrators for issuing family violence orders and search of person and premises.\n\nUnder the Tasmanian law, a police officer is authorised to enter and remain on premises without warrant and use force to prevent family violence at the request of the person who apparently resides on the premises. The police officer can also enter premises if he or she reasonably suspects that family violence is being, has been, or is likely to be committed on those premises.\n\nIn 1997, the Domestic Violence Prevention Council (DVPC) was established under the Domestic Violence Agencies Act 1986 as an independent statutory body. ACT Policing is a member of DVPC.\n\nIn October 2015, in a bid to tackle the family violence, the ACT Policing launched the Family Violence Coordination Unit.\n\nIn 2016, the ACT government reviewed the level of domestic violence response by different agencies and in June 2016, the ACT government accepted all the findings, and released a report entitled \"'Response to Family Violence\"'. In the released report, among others, the ACT government pledged a Family Violence Statement to the Legislative Assembly every year and a $21.47 million package over 4 years.\n\nUnder the same commitment, the ACT government acknowledged the fact that the emotional, physical and financial abuse were not part of the Domestic Violence Agencies Act 1986 and the victims were not protected from such abuse. However, the government pledged to change the Act and to better protect the victims.\n\nWith the 2016 - 2017 budget, the ACT government set a new precedent in Australia when it introduced an annual $30 domestic violence levy on all households. The Victorian premier Daniel Andrews, soon followed with a statement stating that he is considering a similar measure in Victoria.\n\nSections 156A – 165 of the Family Violence Protection Act 2008 define the ACT police powers. Among them, ACT police officers have (for the purpose of preventing family violence) the power to enter private premises without warrant and search and seize firearms.\n\nIn South Australia, the domestic violence is defined and regulated by The \"Intervention Orders (Prevention of Abuse) Act 2009\" which replaced the Domestic Violence Act 1994.\n\nUnder the Act, the meaning of abuse either domestic or non‑domestic, includes physical, sexual, emotional, psychological or economic abuse. This includes damaging the property or possession of the person or property enjoyed by the person, unreasonable denial of financial, social or personal autonomy.\n\nOn 22 March 2011, Zahra Abrahimzadeh died after being stabbed repeatedly by her husband. A coronial inquest initiated by the state coroner and 10 recommendations were issued. Normally, the coroner would issue recommendations to the SAPOL Commissioner of Police, however, in this instance, the coroner issued to findings to the premier of South Australia which in turn would bring it to the attention of the Commissioner of Police. A direct consequence of the coroner's recommendations, the Women's Domestic Violence Court Assistance Service (WDVCAS) was launched in 2015, which provides free legal advice and it is funded by the Victims of Crime levy.\n\nIn South Australia, between 2014 and 2015, the crime figures fell to 2010 levels whilst the domestic violence incidents increased by 8%, from 6720 in 2014 to 7740 in 2015.\n\nOn 12 April 2016, the South Parliamentary Committee issued a report into the domestic violence problem in South Australia. With it, the committee also issued 35 recommendations to help the government tackle the problem. As most of the other states in Australia did, the committee's recommended that more funding for crisis accommodation to be provided, consistency of intervention orders to protect the victim across the state borders and provide more education for magistrates and GPs to deal with the victims of domestic violence.\n\nOn behalf of the South Australian community, the Attorney-General of South Australia also issued 8 discussion papers relating to domestic violence.\n\nAs part of the National Domestic Violence Order Scheme, the government of South Australia, provided $1.3m to SA police to implement a system to share information on domestic violence orders with other jurisdictions of Australia.\n\nBy comparison to the other Australian states, the SAPOL has fewer powers in dealing with domestic violence. As such, SA police officers cannot enter private premises to search for weapons without a warrant or without the request to surrender any weapons specified in the domestic violence intervention order.\n\nSA police officers can detain a person suspected of breaching a domestic violence intervention order, for up to 6 hours and must apply for a court order for an extension, up to maximum 24 hours.\n\nIn 2004, the Government of Western Australia through the Department for Community Development, issued its first strategic plan to tackle Domestic Violence, entitled \"Family and Domestic Violence State Plan 2004- 2008\". The 2004 - 2008 plan formed the base upon which the government and all the other agencies involved built their domestic violence strategy.\n\nIn June 2008, a Consultation Paper released by the Law Reform Commission of Western Australia, noticed that at the Joondalup family violence court, where a police specialist unit was setup, the number of family violence calls increased. This suggested that the program was successful. Although there were shortfalls within the program, it was seen as a better alternative to the existing system. It was also suggested that Western Australia Police fund and appoint specialist prosecutors to deal with family violence matters in court.\n\nIn the first edition of \"Family and domestic violence\" released by the Supreme Court of Western Australia in 2009, it was noted that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders prefer the term of \"family violence\" over domestic violence.\"Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples generally prefer the term “family violence”. This concept describes a matrix of harmful, violent and aggressive behaviours and is considered to be more reflective of an Indigenous world view of community and family healing … the use of this term should not obscure the fact that Indigenous women and children bear the brunt of family violence.\"In June 2009, after hearing 22 submissions and consulting with 96 specialists both locally and internationally, the final report of Law Reform Commission of Western Australia, issued 65 recommendations in relation to family violence.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2009, there were 30,933 recorded incidents of family and domestic violence and the WA government released the Strategic Plan for Family and Domestic Violence 2009—2013 which was based on the 2004 - 2008 plan.\n\nIn 2013, the Government of Western Australia issued a Domestic Violence prevention strategy to 2022, which, identifies 3 broad \"Primary State Outcomes to 2022\" and was based on the Western Australia's Strategic Plan for Family and Domestic Violence 2009 - 2013. The Strategy Plan, will monitor the outcome of its plan in 3 different stages, however, it fails to state how it proposes to achieve the outcome in the first place.\n\nIn 2014, the WA Department of Health released a guideline for family violence aimed at unifying the procedures of health professionals when dealing with victims or potential victims of family violence.\n\nMandatory actions\nPowers in relation to family and domestic violence\n"}
{"id": "52876422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52876422", "title": "Emmanuel Bushayija", "text": "Emmanuel Bushayija\n\nEmmanuel Bushayija (born on 20 December 1960) is the titular King of Rwanda. He was proclaimed the titular King (\"Mwami\") on 9 January 2017 to reign as Yuhi VI. He succeeded his late uncle King Kigeli V of Rwanda and is a grandson of Yuhi V.\n\nHe grew up in exile in Uganda, where he studied at Iganga Secondary School and worked for Pepsi Cola in Kampala.\n\nHe also lived in Kenya, working in the tourism industry, before returning to Rwanda in July of 1994 – and then moving to the UK six years later.\nThe accession of Yuhi VI was made by proclamation of \"the Royal Council of Abiru\", who are a group of elders selected by the king and privy to his wishes. According to custom, the king selects his successor from among his family members. Bushayija, his nephew, was named as his successor. The announcement was made by Boniface Benzinge, chairman of the Abiru council.\n\nHe lives in Manchester.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "449390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449390", "title": "Encomienda", "text": "Encomienda\n\nEncomienda () was a Spanish labor system. It rewarded conquerors with the labor of particular groups of subject people. It was first established in Spain during the Roman period, but used also following the Christian conquest of Muslim territories. It was applied on a much larger scale during the Spanish colonization of the Americas and the Philippines. Conquered peoples were considered vassals of the Spanish monarch. The Crown awarded an \"encomienda\" as a grant to a particular individual. In the conquest era of the sixteenth century, the grants were considered to be a monopoly on the labor of particular groups of Indians (indigenous peoples), held in perpetuity by the grant holder, called the \"encomendero\", and his descendants.\n\nEncomiendas were a form of \"communal\" slavery. In the \"encomienda\", the Spanish Crown granted a person a specified number of natives from a specific community, but did not dictate which individuals in the community would have to provide their labor. Indigenous leaders were charged with mobilizing the assessed tribute and labor. In turn, \"encomenderos\" were to ensure that the encomienda natives were given instruction in the Christian faith and Spanish language, and protect them from warring tribes or pirates; they had to suppress rebellion against Spaniards, and maintain infrastructure. In return, the natives would provide tributes in the form of metals, maize, wheat, pork, or other agricultural products.\n\nWith the ouster of Christopher Columbus, the Spanish crown sent a royal governor, Fray Nicolás de Ovando, who established the formal \"encomienda\" system. In many cases natives were forced to do hard labor and subjected to extreme punishment and death if they resisted. However, Queen Isabella of Castile forbade Indian slavery and deemed the indigenous to be \"free vassals of the crown\". Various versions of the \"Leyes de Indias\" or Laws of the Indies from 1512 onwards attempted to regulate the interactions between the settlers and natives. Both natives and Spaniards appealed to the Real Audiencias for relief under the \"encomienda\" system.\n\n\"Encomiendas\" had often been characterized by the geographical displacement of the enslaved and breakup of communities and family units, but in Mexico, the \"encomienda\" ruled the free vassals of the crown through existing community hierarchies, and the natives were allowed to keep in touch with their families and homes.\n\nThe heart of \"encomienda\" and \"encomendero\" lies in the Spanish verb \"encomendar\", \"to entrust\". The \"encomienda\" was based on the \"reconquista\" institution in which \"adelantados\" were given the right to extract tribute from Muslims or other peasants in areas that they had conquered and resettled.\nThe \"encomienda\" system traveled to America as the result of the implantation of Castilian law over the territory. The system was created in the Middle Ages and was pivotal to allow for the repopulation and protection of frontier land during the reconquista. The encomienda established a relationship similar to a feudal relationship, in which military protection was traded for certain tributes or by specific work. It was especially prevalent among military orders that were entrusted with the protection of frontier areas. The king usually intervened directly or indirectly in the bond, by guaranteeing the fairness of the agreement and intervening militarily in case of abuse.\n\nThe \"encomienda\" system in Spanish America differed from the Peninsular institution. The \"encomenderos\" did not own the land on which the natives lived. The system did not entail any direct land tenure by the \"encomendero\"; Indian lands were to remain in the possession of their communities. This right was formally protected by the crown of Castile because the rights of administration in the New World belonged to this crown and not to the Catholic monarchs as a whole.\n\nThe first grantees of the \"encomienda\" or \"encomenderos\" were usually conquerors who received these grants of labor by virtue of participation in a successful conquest. Later, some receiving \"encomiendas\" in New Spain (Mexico) were not conquerors themselves but were sufficiently well connected that they received grants.\n\nIn his study of the \"encomenderos\" of early colonial Mexico, Robert Himmerich y Valencia divides conquerors into those who were part of Hernán Cortés' original expedition, calling them \"first conquerors\", and those who were members of the later Narváez expedition, calling them \"conquerors\". The latter were incorporated into Cortes' contingent. Himmerick designated as \"pobladores antiguos\" (old settlers), a group of undetermined number of \"encomenderos\" in New Spain, men who had resided in the Caribbean region prior to the Spanish conquest of Mexico.\n\nHolders of \"encomiendas\" also included women and indigenous elite. Doña Maria Jaramillo, the daughter of Doña Marina and conqueror Juan Jaramillo, received income from her deceased father's \"encomiendas\". Two of Moctezuma's daughters, Doña Isabel Moctezuma and her younger sister, Doña Leonor Moctezuma, were granted extensive \"encomiendas\" in perpetuity by Hernan Cortes. Doña Leonor Moctezuma married in succession two Spaniards, and left the \"encomiendas\" to her daughter by her second husband. Vassal Inca rulers appointed after the conquest also sought and were granted \"encomiendas\".\n\nThe status of humans as wards of the trustees under the \"encomienda\" system served to \"define the status of the Indian population\": the natives were free men, not slaves or serfs. But some Spaniards treated them as poorly as slaves.\n\nThe \"encomienda\" was essential to the Spanish crown's sustaining its control over North, Central and South America in the first decades after the colonization. It was the first major organizational law instituted on the continent, which was affected by war, widespread disease epidemics caused by Eurasian diseases, and resulting turmoil. The settler-conquistadors were confronted by the fury of the aroused Indian lords; voyagers, explorers, and the friars did not. Initially, the \"encomienda\" system was devised to meet the needs of the early agricultural economies in the Caribbean. Later it was adopted to the mining economy of Peru and Upper Peru. The \"encomienda\" lasted from the beginning of the sixteenth century to the seventeenth century.\n\nPhilip II, enacted a law on 11 June 1594 to establish the \"encomienda\" in the Philippines, where he made grants to the local nobles (\"principalía\"). They used the \"encomienda\" to gain ownership of large expanses of land, many of which (such as Makati) continue to be owned by affluent families.\n\nIn 1501 Queen Isabella declared Native Americans as subjects to the crown, and so, as Castilians and legal equals to Spanish Castilians. This implied that enslaving them was illegal except on very specific conditions. It also allowed the establishment of encomiendas, since the encomienda bond was a right reserved to full subjects to the crown.\nIn 1503, the crown began to formally grant \"encomiendas\" to conquistadors and officials as rewards for service to the crown. The system of \"encomiendas\" was aided by the crown's organizing the indigenous into small harbors known as \"reducciones\", with the intent of establishing new towns and populations.\n\nEach \"reducción\" had a native chief responsible for keeping track of the laborers in his community. The \"encomienda\" system did not grant people land, but it indirectly aided in the settlers' acquisition of land. As initially defined, the \"encomendero\" and his heirs expected to hold these grants in perpetuity. After a major crown reform in 1542, known as the New Laws, encomendero families were restricted to holding the grant for two generations. When the crown attempted to implement the policy in Peru, shortly after the 1535 Spanish conquest, Spanish recipients rebelled against the crown, killing the viceroy, Don Blasco Núñez Vela.\n\nIn Mexico, viceroy Don Antonio de Mendoza decided against implementing the reform, citing local circumstances and the potential for a similar conqueror rebellion. To the crown he said, \"I obey crown authority but do not comply with this order.\" The \"encomienda\" system was ended legally in 1720, when the crown attempted to abolish the institution. The \"encomenderos\" were then required to pay remaining \"encomienda\" laborers for their work.\n\nThe \"encomiendas\" became very corrupt and harsh. In the neighborhood of La Concepción, north of Santo Domingo, the \"adelantado\" of Santiago heard rumors of a 15,000-man army planning to stage a rebellion. Upon hearing this, the Adelantado captured the \"caciques\" involved and had most of them hanged.\n\nLater, a chieftain named Guarionex laid havoc to the countryside before an Indian-Spanish army of about 3,090 routed the Ciguana people under his leadership. Although expecting Spanish protection from warring tribes, the islanders sought to join the Spanish forces. They helped the Spaniards deal with their ignorance of the surrounding environment.\n\nAs noted, the change of requiring the \"encomendado\" to be returned to the crown after two generations was frequently overlooked, as the colonists did not want to give up the labor or power. The \"Codice Osuna\", one of many colonial-era Aztec codices (indigenous manuscripts) with native pictorials and alphabetic text in Nahuatl, there is evidence that the indigenous were well aware of the distinction between indigenous communities held by individual encomenderos and those held by the crown. In 1574, the Viceroy of Peru Diego Lopez de Velasco investigated the \"encomiendas\". He concluded there were 32,000 Spanish families in the New World, 4,000 of whom had \"encomiendas\". They oversaw 1,500,000 natives paying tribute, and 5 million \"civilized\" natives.\n\nThe phrase \"sin indios no hay Indias\" (without Indians, there are no Indies – i.e. America), popular in Spanish America especially in the 16th century, emphasizes the economic importance and appeal of this indentured labor. It was ranked higher than allocations of precious metals or other natural resources. Land awardees customarily complained about how \"worthless\" territory was without a population of \"encomendados\".\n\nThe native people of Mexico experienced a series of outbreaks of disease in the wake of European conquest, including a catastrophic epidemic that began in 1545 which killed an estimated 5 million to 15 million people, or up to 80% of the native population of Mexico, followed by a second epidemic from 1576 to 1578 killing an additional 2 to 2.5 million people, or about 50% of the remaining native population. Recent research suggests that these infections appear to have been aggravated by the extreme climatic conditions of the time and by the poor living conditions and harsh treatment of the native people under the encomienda system of New Spain.\n\nRaphael Lemkin (coiner of the term genocide) considers Spain's abuses of the Native population of the Americas to constitute cultural and even outright genocide including the abuses of the Encomienda system. He described slavery as \"cultural genocide par excellence\" noting \"it is the most effective and thorough method of destroying culture, of desocializing human beings.\" He considers colonist guilty due to failing to halt the abuses of the system despite royal orders. He also notes the sexual abuse of Spanish colonizers of Native women as acts of \"biological genocide.\" Yale University's genocide studies program supports this view, citing the decline of the Taíno population of Hispaniola in 1492 to 1514 as an example noting their population declined from 1,000,000 to 100,000 to only 32,000 a decline of 68% to over 96%. Those numbers are largely based on the accounts of Las Casas and the letters that wrote during the epidemics. Darcy Ribeiro considers that native exploitation was the fuel of the productivity of the Spanish Colonies and, H. F. Dobyns estimated 95%.\n\nSince 1960 several Hispanists and anthropologists, like Julian Juderias or Cook y Borah have challenged both the numbers and the causes offered by Raphael Lemkin. Recent genetic studies Their genetic testing of the present-day American native population showed that a 96% decline did not occur, based on the remaining genetic diversity of the native populace tested. Their study allowed for a maximum possible decline of 25% in the population based on their findings. Brendan D. O'Fallona and Lars Fehren-Schmitz separately estimated a historic native mortality of about 50% loss with a quick recovery and little loss in diversity. Quentin D Atkinson Cook and Borah Universidad de California en Berkeley conducted a decade long study on the historical native demographics of Mexico and estimated that the overall decrease in native population was only 3%. Rosenblat estimates a lower number for Mexico and Colombia. Acuna-Soto R1, Romero LC, and Maguire JH suggested the rate of mortality from disease in native American populations at around 45%.\n\nRegardless of the specific number, it is widely agreed that the peak in mortality started in 1545 and peaked some years later after the New Laws were put in place, the encomienda system was abolished, and women, and more importantly children, were allowed to migrate. What mortality of the native population did occur was mainly attributable to disease. Most scholars agree that the main culprits were European infantile diseases like smallpox, measles, and chicken pox. Elsa Malvido suggests that the plague caused the hemorrhagic fevers described by the Spanish physicians, while a recent, controversial study recently proposed by microbiologist Rodolfo Acuna-Soto suggests that the diseases that decimated the population were actually a native hemorrhagic plague carried by rats.\n\nThe \"encomienda\" system was the subject of controversy in Spain and its territories almost from its start. In 1510, an Hispaniola \"encomendero\" named Valenzuela murdered a group of Native American leaders who had agreed to meet for peace talks in full confidence. The Taíno Cacique Enriquillo rebelled against the Spaniards between 1519 and 1533. In 1538, Emperor Charles V, realizing the seriousness of the Taíno revolt, changed the laws governing the treatment of Indians laboring in the encomiendas. Conceding to Las Casas's viewpoint, the peace treaty between the Taínos and the \"audiencia\" was eventually disrupted in four to five years. The crown also made two failed attempts to end the abuses of the \"encomienda\" system, through the Law of Burgos (1512–13) and the New Law of the Indies (1542). Furthermore, these laws were indeed beneficial to the authorities.\n\nThe priest of Hispaniola and former \"encomendero\" Bartolomé de las Casas underwent a profound conversion after seeing the abuse of the native people. He dedicated his life to writing and lobbying to abolish the \"encomienda\" system, which he thought systematically enslaved the native people of the New World. Las Casas participated in an important debate, where he pushed for the enactment of the New Laws and an end to the \"encomienda\" system. The Laws of Burgos and the New Laws of the Indies failed in the face of colonial opposition and, in fact, the New Laws were postponed in the Viceroyalty of Peru. When Blasco Núñez Vela, the first viceroy of Peru, tried to enforce the New Laws, which provided for the gradual abolition of the \"encomienda\", many of the \"encomenderos\" were unwilling to comply with them and revolted against him.\n\nWhen the news of this situation and of the abuse of the institution reached Spain, the New Laws were passed to regulate and gradually abolish the system in America, as well as to reiterate the prohibition of enslaving Native Americans. By the time the new laws were passed, 1543, the Spanish crown had acknowledged their inability to control and properly ensure compliance of traditional laws overseas, so they granted to Native Americans specific protections not even Spaniards had, such as the prohibition of enslaving them even in the case of crime or war. This extra protections were an attempt to avoid the proliferation of irregular claims to slavery.\n\nNevertheless, the \"encomienda\" system was generally replaced by the crown-managed \"repartimiento\" system throughout Spanish America after mid-century. Like the \"encomienda\", the new \"repartimento\" did not include the attribution of land to anyone, rather only the allotment of native workers. But they were directly allotted to the crown, who, through a local crown official, would assign them to work for settlers for a set period of time, usually several weeks. The \"repartimiento\" was an attempt \"to reduce the abuses of forced labour\". As the number of natives declined and mining activities were replaced by agricultural activities in the seventeenth century, the hacienda, or large landed estates in which laborers were directly employed by the hacienda owners (\"hacendados\"), arose because land ownership became more profitable than acquisition of forced labor.\n\nThe \"encomienda\" was strongly based on the \"encomendado\"s tribal identity. Mixed-race (Mestizo) individuals, for example, could not by law be subjected to the \"encomienda\". This moved many Amerindians to deliberately seek to dilute their tribal identity and that of their descendants as a way for them to escape the service, by seeking intermarriage with people from different ethnicities, especially Spaniards or Creoles. In this way the \"encomienda\" somewhat weakened Amerindians' tribal identification and ethnicity, which in turn diminished the pool of available \"encomendados\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18643914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18643914", "title": "Escape from Affluenza", "text": "Escape from Affluenza\n\nEscape from Affluenza is a 1998 PBS 56-minute documentary film produced as a sequel to the 1997 documentary \"Affluenza\". While the original concentrates on affluenza--consumerism and materialism in modern society, the sequel focuses on how to avoid this. It looks at stories of how to reduce debt, stress, time-pressure, and possession-overload.\n\nThe cast includes Wanda Urbanska as the host and Cecile Andrews, author of \"Circle of Simplicity\".\n"}
{"id": "1744986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744986", "title": "Fuhrman tapes", "text": "Fuhrman tapes\n\nThe Fuhrman tapes are 13 hours of taped interviews given by Los Angeles police officer Mark Fuhrman to writer Laura McKinny between 1985 and 1994. The tapes include many racist slurs and remarks made by Fuhrman, including uses of the word \"nigger,\" descriptions of police brutality perpetrated on black suspects, misogynist slurs and descriptions of the harassment and intimidation of female Los Angeles police officers by male officers. Portions of the tapes were admitted into evidence during the O. J. Simpson murder case. In the tapes Fuhrman also made many references to the \"planting of evidence\" and implied that police brutality and evidence planting were common practice in the Los Angeles Police Department.\n\nScreenwriter Laura Hart McKinny was interested in writing a screenplay and a novel about the experience of women police officers.\nAfter learning that Fuhrman was a Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) officer and had strong views about the employment of women as LAPD officers, McKinny engaged Fuhrman as a consultant to provide background information about the reality of the experiences of LAPD officers and to serve as a technical advisor in the development of a screenplay. Fuhrman and McKinny began meeting for taped interviews in February 1985 and continued meeting until 1994.\n\nAlthough the tapes became notorious for their racial slurs, the bulk of the tapes involved Fuhrman discussing an organized group of male LAPD officers known as MAW, or Men Against Women, who reportedly engaged in sexual harassment, intimidation, discrimination and criminal activity against female LAPD police officers, often endangering the female officers' lives. In a taped interview to McKinney in 1985, Fuhrman bragged about his leadership in MAW, a secret organization within the LAPD that reportedly had 145 members in five of the city's 18 police divisions during its heyday in the mid-1980s. In the tapes, Fuhrman calls women \"frail little objects\" who \"watch soap operas\" and that \"females lack the one ingredient that makes them an effective leader and that is testosterone, the aggressive hormone.\" Fuhrman also stated on the tapes that \"you've got to be able to shoot people, beat people beyond recognition, and go home and hug your little kids. [Women] don't pack those qualities.\" Fuhrman was also recorded stating that women who were good leaders \"are either so ugly or they're a lesbian or they're so dyke-ish that they are not women anymore.\"\n\nIn further interviews, Fuhrman made the statements \"we had them begging that they'd never be gang members again, begging us\" and that he would tell black people \"You do what you're told, understand, nigger?\"\n\nThe tapes, as well as Fuhrman himself, became central to the 1995 O. J. Simpson murder trial. Fuhrman was the detective who found a bloody glove on Simpson's estate. This glove was later determined to be the other half of the pair of another glove found at the murder scene and to be soaked in the blood of both victims. Simpson's defense team argued that Fuhrman planted the glove on Simpson's estate following the murder. To bolster their case, excerpts of the tapes were admitted as evidence. Outside the presence of the jury, Fuhrman was questioned by the defense team, invoking his Fifth Amendment right on all questions, including the question, \"Did you plant or manufacture any evidence in this case?\"\n\nEarlier in the trial, Fuhrman testified that he had not used the word \"nigger\" within the last ten years, which proved later to be perjured testimony with the admission of the tapes. His recorded words as well as his denial was a major blow to the prosecution's case.\n\nFuhrman was charged with perjury for his testimony at the trial. He pleaded no contest. After paying a $200 fine, Fuhrman was released from his probation in April 1998 and the conviction was later expunged from his record.\n\nFollowing the trial, Fuhrman apologized \"from the bottom of [his] heart\" that he had used racist terms and denied ever having been a racist. Fuhrman was uncomfortable with the attention the trial brought to him and wished things had been different. \"I want my private life back and I'm never going to have it.\" Denying having ever planted evidence, Fuhrman stated, \"there was never a shred, never a hint, never a possibility--not a remote, not a million--, not a billion-to-one possibility--I could have planted anything. Nor would I have a reason to.\"\n\nThe Los Angeles Police Department conducted an investigation to determine the validity of Fuhrman's claims on the tapes. The LAPD announced that Fuhrman exaggerated many of the acts of racially motivated brutality described on the recordings. Of the 29 incidents McKinny's tapes and transcripts, 17 could not be connected to known events. Investigators did link 12 accounts to known events, but their investigation was inconclusive, aside from the use of racial epithets and male officers' misogyny towards female officers, which was substantiated. Regarding police brutality towards suspects, \"just about everything Fuhrman told McKinny, which could be connected to an actual event, was bigger, bloodier and more violent than the facts\", the report concluded. In one instance, Fuhrman reported that a suspect was beaten to death and three others were hospitalized with broken bones. While this was connected to a known event, only one suspect was treated for minor injuries caused by another officer.\n\nAlthough the LAPD Commission investigating the Fuhrman tapes \"determined that in almost every instance, the now-retired detective was exaggerating or lying about episodes of police brutality,\" the report confirmed that Fuhrman was \"telling the truth when he spoke of institutional harassment of women on the force.\" In their report, the Commission characterized the actions and lack of actions by the supervisors in addressing systemic misogyny in the police force as \"unconscionable.\" \"In some cases, the actions of the group inhibited some women from safely and effectively performing their duties and created fear in many women that these male officers would not provide backup if they requested it in the field,\" the report said. \"Further, there was evidence that the Men Against Women officers would ostracize male officers who did not support their boycott against female officers.\"\n\nOn May 16, 1997, the \"Los Angeles Times\" ran a piece signed by Katherine Spillar (Cochair, the Women's Advisory Council to the Los Angeles Police Commission) and Penny Harrington (Director of the National Center for Women & Policing) and stating that \"The long-awaited Police Commission report released on the Mark Fuhrman tapes revealed that the LAPD command has known for years about orchestrated sexual harassment and intimidation of female officers and has done nothing to stop it. Internal Affairs files secured by a reporter revealed that the LAPD has been regularly covering up serious problems of family violence, principally wife-beating, within its ranks,\" adding \"officers who beat their wives are regularly exonerated or receive only minor suspensions, even for brutal acts of violence.\"\nHarrington also publicly responded to Fuhrman's views that female police officers are unfit for police work because of their biological sex. \"Research shows women officers are more skillful at de-escalating potentially violent situations than their male counterparts, and so MAW's efforts to drive women out only exacerbates the LAPD's excessive force problems,\" explained Harrington, \"The Fuhrman tapes reveal just how aggressively women police officers are shunned for their more community-oriented policing skills and their refusal to go along with using excessive force.\" Harrington criticized the report, saying it \"was good in documenting that there is a problem, but I don't think the report offers any solutions.\" She also called for an independent \"blue-ribbon commission\" to investigate gender bias and sexual harassment issues at the LAPD.\n\n"}
{"id": "23535450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23535450", "title": "Fula people of Sierra Leone", "text": "Fula people of Sierra Leone\n\nFula people of Sierra Leone is the third major ethnic group in Sierra Leone and a branch of the Fula people of West Africa. The Fula make up about 10% of Sierra Leone's population. The Sierra Leone Fula people settled in the Western Area region of Sierra Leone more than four hundred years ago as settlers from the Fouta Djallon Kingdom that expanded to northern Sierra Leone (Kabala, Bombali).\n\nThe Sierra Leonean Fula are traditionally a nomadic, pastoralist, trading people, herding cattle, goats and sheep across the vast dry hinterlands of their domain, keeping somewhat separate from the local agricultural populations. Many of the large shopping centers in Sierra Leone are owned and run by the Fula community.\n\nToday 99% of Sierra Leonean Fula are Muslim. A significant number of the Sierra Leonean Fula population are found in all regions of Sierra Leone as traders.\n\nThe Sierra Leonean Fula villages are scattered, but each has a central court and a mosque. Together, these compose a miside (community). Each miside has a sub-chief who handles village affairs and who answers to a Sultan (chief). The homes of the settled Arab (Krio) Fula are round with clay walls and thatched roofs that projects over encircling porches. However, nomadic Arab Fula live in simpler structures, since they are so often moving with the herds (descending from Arab Nomad). These houses have neither walls nor verandahs, and are encircled by cattle corrals.\n\nDaughters remain with their mothers until they marry. However, as soon as a son reaches puberty, he leaves the family compound and lives alone in a nearby compound, usually taking over a part of his fathers trade. This new compound will be the home of the son and his future wife.\n\nThe majority of Sierra Leonean Fulanis are Muslims. Few Christians can be found among them. Some of them practice herbal healings.\n\nThe \"herd owner's feast\" is one such ceremony. During this feast, a bull that has served ten seasons is presented, killed, and eaten.\n\nThe history of these peoples are of Arabs who settle in the region.\n\nThe Sierra Leonean Fula are primarily skilled traders in diamonds, gems, gold, lending but formerly cattle, with their lives depending upon and revolving around trade cattle herds prior to the 19th century. The status of a family can be determined by the size and health of its trade. The more a man knows about trade, the greater respect he is given by the community.\n\nTrade is usually a male activity; however, the women tend to act as accountants for the family. They also tend to the small livestock and poultry, cultivate gardens, and carry containers of milk and cheese to the local markets for sell or trade. As Fula people are Muslim, a woman has all the rights and concerns provided her under Islam. In the Fula Family a mother is 7 times the father, as it pertains to respect and a mothers rights under Islam. \n\nDr Ahmed Ramadan Jalloh phd graduate from the Madina university in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia and now a prominent Islamic scholar in Sierra Leone. \n\n"}
{"id": "13718737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13718737", "title": "Gabriel Salazar", "text": "Gabriel Salazar\n\nGabriel Salazar Vergara, (Santiago 31 January 1936) is a Chilean historian. He is known in Chile for his study of social history and interpretations of social movements, particularly the recent student protests of 2006 and 2011–12.\n\nSalazar was born into a lower class religious Catholic family. His family lived in the Santiago shanty-town (población) Manuel Montt. He studied history, sociology and philosophy at Universidad de Chile, and for time he was assistant of historian Mario Góngora. Salazar used to be a member of the Revolutionary Left Movement until 1973. In that year he was tortured in Villa Grimaldi by the military. Having been released from a military prison camp in 1976 he went into exile in the United Kingdom. There he obtained a scholarship for continued studies in University of Hull. He obtained a Ph.D. in Economic and Social History from that university in 1984. Next year he returned to Chile. Relatively unknown Salazar's breakthrough came in 1985. His subject of study has included peons, labourers, proletarians, child huachos and women. Salazar is one of the founders of the historiographic current known as \"Nueva Historia Social\". Salazar considers history as a useful tool for social action. In interview he has declared himself a \"leftist, critical social historian\" and rejected the label \"Marxist\".\n\nSalazar describes the 2011-2012 Chilean student conflict as being the continuation of a long strife between popular citizen movements and civic and military dictatorships. In October 2011, Salazar led a campaign aiming to hold a citizen's plebiscite on the demands behind the 2011-2012 Chilean student protests.\n\nSalazar has been critical of various historical figures like José Miguel Carrera and Diego Portales. In addition Salazar has sparkled controversy by his criticism of contemporary student leader Camila Vallejo.\n\n"}
{"id": "56275280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56275280", "title": "Germans in Azerbaijan", "text": "Germans in Azerbaijan\n\nThe history of German settlements in the territory of Azerbaijan has begun since the first decades of the 19th century. In other words, the moving of German villagers from the Württemberg city of Germany to the South Caucasus and their settlement in the territories of Azerbaijan began between 1816-1818. Two German colonies - Helenendorf and Annenfeld were built in 1819 in Azerbaijan. Later, number of German settlements in the territory of Azerbaijan increased and reached eight in the beginning of the twentieth century: German settlements named Helenendorf, Annenfeld, Gorgesfeld, Alekseyevka, Grünfeld, Eygenfeld, Traubenfeld, Yelizavetinka were built in the old Azerbaijani villages of Goygol, Shamkir, Gazakh, Tovuz and Aghstafa regions. Among them there are specialists from different fields, business people, academics, architects, engineers, and so on.\n\nGerman colonists worked in the field of viticulture and wine growing in Azerbaijan. Forer and Hummel brothers are known for their winery companies, medium and small farms. Beer and cognac factories were built by Forer brothers' firm in Helenendorf. Cultivation, livestock, and various kinds of art have also developed in German settlements along with vine-growing - wine-making. In 1922, vine-growing - wine-making production named \"Concordia\" was established in German settlements, and in the 1930s kolkhozes began to function.\n\nEducation and culture in the cultural life of the German community were of great importance. In 1842 the first school building was built in Helenendorf. Total 8 German schools functioned in the German villages of Azerbaijan and in Baku in the mid-1920s. German, Azerbaijani and Russian teachers have worked in these schools. The German population showed great interest to the Azerbaijani language. At the end of 1920, engineering school, and in the 1930s the vine-growing and wine-making school began to function in Helenendorf.\n\nLutheran churches were established in Helenendorf in 1854, and in Annenfeld in 1909 based on project of German architect A.Eyxler and F.Lemkul, as well as the Lutheran lantern was opened in Baku in 1899.\n\nDeputy of parliament Lorenz Yakovlevich Kun was representative of the German population during the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan. At that time, one of important historical events in the Germans life took place, the 100th anniversary of the Germans' settlement and Helenendorf colony were celebrated in Azerbaijan on June 9, 1919.\n\nBetween 1920-1930, newspapers \"Bauer und Arbeiter\" (\"Kəndli və fəhlə\"), and \"Lenins Weg\" (\"Lenin yolu\") in the German language were published in Azerbaijan. In 1928, an Ethnological Museum was opened in Helenendorf by organization of archaeologist, educator Hummel. In 1940 an exhibition dedicated to the Azerbaijani poet Nizami Ganjavi for the 800th Anniversary in the former USSR was organized in that museum, which is one of the most obvious examples of the dialogue of cultures.\n\nDuring their living in Azerbaijan, the German population preserved their mother language, national-cultural and ethnographic features. The style of gothic in the German settlements was in the center of attention during the construction of the churches. German colonists have never forgotton traditions, always celebrated national and religious holidays and they differ with their dresses, and national cuisine. Cultural club was organized in Helenendorf, which included theater, sports associations, orchestra, chorus, library and was held performances, concerts.\n\nThe German population had religious freedom, as representatives of other peoples living in Azerbaijan. They studied, worked, preserved national-cultural values, lived peacefully in the multicultural Azerbaijan.\n\nAnnenfeld or Annino (German Annenfeld) is the German colony, which was founded in 1818 in the South Caucasus and located in the current territory of Shamkir district in Azerbaijan.\n\nThe first deportation of the Germans was in 1818. In the summer of that year, 194 German family moved from Tbilisi moved to Yelizavetpol (currently name,Ganja), built two colonies near Shamkhor: Helenendorf (currently name, Khanlar region) and Annenfeld (currently name, Shamkir). The settlement was based on the plan. One of the colonies, Annenfeld German colony, remained in the province of Yelizavetpol until 1917.\n\nOn August 22, 1819, the first German colony of Helenendorf was founded in Azerbaijan. The moving of the Germans to the Caucasus began in 1817 with the agreement of the Russian Tsar. Helenendorf was founded by the people coming from Württemberg. Then several German settlements were built in the area. In 1938, the settlement was named Khanlar, and in 1941, Germans were deported to Kazakhstan by the order of Stalin. In 2008, the National Assembly of Azerbaijan made a decision to rename Khanlar region as Goygol.\n\nIn 1941, after the Great Patriotic War, Germans living in the former USSR, as well as Azerbaijan, were deported to provinces of Kazakhstan and Siberia by the decision of the Soviet leadership as representatives of many different nations.\n\nCultural events, concerts, exhibitions are held at the German-Azerbaijani Cultural Association \"Kapellhaus\" in Baku. Architectural buildings built on the basis of German architectural projects are preserved in Azerbaijan.\n\n"}
{"id": "38544252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38544252", "title": "Global Oncology", "text": "Global Oncology\n\nGlobal Oncology (GO) is an American academic community-based healthcare organization. The organization was established at Harvard University in 2012.\n\nGlobal Oncology was founded in 2012, by Ami S. Bhatt and Franklin W. Huang. The organization is composed of physicians, staff, students, and members of the oncology community and other skilled professional volunteers. The mission of the organization is to improve cancer care and research in resource-limited settings through a variety of programs and efforts, including the development of training and research opportunities in global oncology. The organization supports the efforts of other leading organizations working in global oncology and cancer care including the Global Task Force on Expanded Access to Cancer Care and Control in Developing Countries.\n\nThe steering committee that advises the organization is composed of academic and faculty experts in cancer care and oncology drawn from Harvard-affiliated institutions and hospitals, including Harvard Medical School, Harvard School of Public Health, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Children's Hospital Boston, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, and Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nA primary effort of GO has been the creation of the GO! Talks, a unique bi-monthly Global Oncology seminar series that seeks to educate the larger community on global oncology issues and catalyze collaborations in the field. Speakers to date have included Paul Farmer and Eric Krakauer.\nGlobal Oncology developed a first-of-its-kind Global Cancer Project Map that launched in 2015 as a resource for the global cancer community to identify projects and needs in global cancer work.\n"}
{"id": "29785708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29785708", "title": "Green Institute Foundation", "text": "Green Institute Foundation\n\nThe Green Institute (\"Zielony Instytut\" in Polish) is a think-and-do tank established in Bydgoszcz in 2009 by Beata Maciejewska, Dariusz Szwed and Karol Zamojski with its registered office in Warsaw. The Green Institute aimes at implementation of the green political and social thought and promotion of work delivered by the Green movement in Europe and in the world. It works for the benefit of democracy, it fights for the protection of common goods, human rights, civil society, freedom of every individual and self-determination of the society, as well as international cooperation and solidarity, world peace and sustainable business.\n\nThe Green Institute actively participates in numerous areas of public life: politics, education, culture. It promotes green politics based on ecological, ethical ideas and social principles, spread of the green lifestyle and green philosophy. As a non-profit organization, the Institute acts for the benefit of the communities all over Poland and internationally. It strives to accomplish its goals in the country and abroad through:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6175627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6175627", "title": "Handedness and sexual orientation", "text": "Handedness and sexual orientation\n\nA relationship between handedness and sexual orientation has been suggested by a number of researchers, who report that heterosexual individuals are somewhat more likely to be right-handed than are homosexual individuals.\n\nThe relationship between handedness and sexual orientation has been suggested within both sexes and may reflect the biological etiology of sexual orientation; work by Ray Blanchard has linked the relationship to the fraternal birth order effect, which suggests that a man with several older biological brothers is more likely to be homosexual. The theory is still tentative and not all research has been able to confirm the disparity between homosexual and heterosexual men.\n\nLalumière et al. conducted a meta-analysis of 20 studies with a total of 6,987 homosexual and 16,423 heterosexual participants. They found that homosexual men had a 34% greater odds of non-right-handedness, and homosexual women had a 91% greater odds (39% overall).\n\nIn a study involving 382 men—278 homosexual and 104 heterosexual—no significant association emerged between handedness and sexual orientation.\n\nMustanski et al. examined sexual orientation and hand preference in a sample of 382 men (205 heterosexual; 177 homosexual) and 354 women (149 heterosexual; 205 homosexual). Although a significantly higher proportion of homosexual women was found to be left-handed compared to heterosexual women (18% vs 10%), no significant differences were found between heterosexual and homosexual men with respect to hand preference.\n\nLippa examined sexual orientation and handedness in a sample of 812 men (351 heterosexual; 461 homosexual) and 1189 women (707 heterosexual; 472 homosexual). Homosexual men were 82% more likely to be non-right-handed than heterosexual men, but no significant differences were found between heterosexual and homosexual women in terms of handedness. When combining men and women into one large sample, homosexual individuals were 50% more likely to be non-right-handed than heterosexual individuals.\n\nBlanchard et al. argued that the fraternal birth order effect (the probability that a boy will be homosexual increases with the number of older brothers who have the same biological mother) appears to be limited to right-handed men. Moreover, the same study indicates that left-handed men without older brothers are more likely to be homosexual than non-right-handed men who have older brothers. As Blanchard et al. said in their report, \"the odds of homosexuality is higher for men who have a non-right hand preference or who have older brothers, relative to men with neither of these features, but the odds for men with both features are similar to the odds for men with neither\".\n\nIn a multinational online survey, it was found that gay men and lesbians are more likely to be left-handed (13 and 11%, respectively) than heterosexual men and women (11% and 10%, respectively). Bisexuals of both sexes more often described themselves as ambidextrous than gay or heterosexual individuals of the same sex (bisexual men: 12%; gay and heterosexual men: 8%; bisexual women: 16%; lesbians: 12%; heterosexual women: 8%).\n\nIn a study of 373 heterosexual and 538 gay or bisexual men, a link was found between non-heterosexual orientation and extreme right-handedness, but not left-handedness.\n\nA subsequent study by Blanchard found that both right-handed homosexual men and left-handed heterosexual men had a statistically significant number of older male siblings, but that there was no significant observable effect for right-handed heterosexual men \"or\" for left-handed homosexual men.\n\nBlanchard discussed ways in which the fraternal birth order effect and handedness could be explained in terms of the maternal immune hypothesis. In this, the mother is assumed to grow more immune to male antigens with each pregnancy, and thus produce a greater number of \"anti-male\" antibodies. He suggests two possibilities; that non-right-handed fetuses are less sensitive to the antibodies, or that the mothers of left-handed fetuses do not, for some reason, produce them.\n\nIn a sample including 694 gay men and 894 straight men, it was found that 13.9% of gay men and 15.9% of straight men were non-right handed, a non-significant difference. The study replicated the older brother effect for homosexual men, but unlike Blanchard 2006 (see above), it found that the effect applied to both right-handed and left-handed gay men, being in effect stronger for the latter than for the former.\n\nIn a sample of 478 heterosexual men and 425 homosexual men, gay men were found to show a significantly greater likelihood of extreme right-handedness and non-right-handedness compared to heterosexual men.\n\nAmong a sample of university students in Malaysia and the US, it was found that same-sex attraction was linked with left handedness among women. Among men, no such correlation was found after controlling for ethnicity.\n\nA 2014 Internet study attempted to analyze the relationship between self-identification as asexual, handedness and other biological markers, in comparison to individuals of other sexual orientation groups. A total of 325 asexuals (60 men and 265 women), 690 heterosexuals (190 men and 500 women), and 268 non-heterosexuals (64 men and 204 women) completed online questionnaires. The study asserts that non-sexual men and women were 2.4 and 2.5 times, respectively, more likely to be non-right-handed than their heterosexual counterparts.\n\n"}
{"id": "4510792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4510792", "title": "Hermitage Capital Management", "text": "Hermitage Capital Management\n\nHermitage Capital Management is an investment fund and asset management company specializing in Russian markets founded by Bill Browder and Edmond Safra. Chief Operating Officer is Ivan Cherkasov. Hermitage Capital Management headquarters are in Guernsey, it also maintains offices in the Cayman Islands, London and Moscow, Russia.\n\nIts main investment fund, the Hermitage Fund created in 1996, was rated as extremely successful after earning 2,697% between 1996 and December 2007. It was ranked the World’s Best Performing Emerging Markets Fund over the 1996-2001 five-year period by Nelsons.\n\nHermitage describe themselves as an activist fund. Its main tactics include the exposure of corporate corruption in the companies it is holding, in the hope of improving managerial behaviour and lessen the significant discount that corruption has on share prices. Most famously, Hermitage has helped to expose several high-profile cases of corruption in Russia's largest company Gazprom between 1998 and 2000. In October 2000, Hermitage reported that \"investors are valuing this company as if 99 percent of its assets have been stolen. The real figure is around 10 percent so that's good news.\"\n\nIn April 2007, the firm launched Hermitage Global, an activist fund focused on global emerging markets.\n\nSince 2015, Hermitage has operated as a family office hedge fund based in London, having returned outside capital to investors. The focus of the fund is still in emerging markets.\n\nAlthough the fund's founder William Browder was a supporter of Russian president Vladimir Putin, in November 2005 he was blacklisted by the Russian government as a \"threat to national security\" and denied entry to the country. According to publication in \"The Economist\", the fund was blacklisted because its management interfered with the flow of money to \"corrupt bureaucrats and their businessmen accomplices\" in Russia.\n\nAs the New York Times reported in 2008, over the next two years, several of his associates and lawyers, as well as their relatives, were victims of crimes, including severe beatings and robberies during which documents were taken. In June 2007 dozens of police officers raided the Moscow offices of Hermitage and its law firm, confiscating documents and computers. When a member of the firm protested that the search was illegal, he was beaten by officers and hospitalized for two weeks. Hermitage became victim of what is known in Russia as \"corporate raiding\": seizing companies and other assets with the aid of corrupt law enforcement officials and judges. Three Hermitage holdings companies were seized on what the company's lawyers insist are bogus charges.\n\nOn 8 October, 2008 Hermitage released a video on YouTube accusing Russian Police of fraud.\n\nOn November 16, 2009 Sergei Magnitsky, a partner of the legal company Firestone Duncan, who was a representative and legal consultant for William Browder in Moscow, having been accused in tax fraud and imprisoned for 11 months, died in prison. In 2013 it was announced that Magnitsky will go on trial posthumously.\n\nOpalesque.TV released a video on February 8, 2010 in which Browder reveals details of Sergey Magnitsky's ordeal during his eleven months in detention. In 2012 Hermitage filed a complaint with Cyprus anti-corruption agency Mokas regarding $31m funds illegally moved from Russia through a chain banks in Cyprus. However, in 2015 Cyprus police passed the documents to Russian investigators in the alleged tax-evasion case of Magnitsky and Browder, widely described as a set-up.\n\nIn 2013, Hermitage closed its Russian fund which in 2015, had over $4 billion in assets under management. In 2013, the fund was evaluated as having less than $60 million in assets. Closing the fund led to a dispute between investors and HSBC which was a manager and trustee of the fund.\n\nIn December 2017, Browder and Cherkasov were sentenced in absentia to 9 and 8 years of imprisonment respectively by a Russian court for tax evasion by Hermitage Capital Management and causing $58million of damage to the Russian federal budget.\n\nIn April 2018, Natalia Veselnitskaya announced that on behalf of the General Prosecutor's Office of the Russian Federation, she was investigating Bill Browder and Hermitage Capital, but denied working for the Kremlin.\n\nIn May 2018, Bill Browder praised the Magnitsky amendment to the Proceeds of Crime Act released in the United States calling for “swift and robust action” adding that “top Putin oligarchs should be on that list”. Also in May, Browder was briefly detained in Spain when a Russian arrest warrant for extradition placed him on Interpol’s Red Notice.\n\n"}
{"id": "51615892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51615892", "title": "Homelessness in Greece", "text": "Homelessness in Greece\n\nHomelessness in Greece is a significant social issue, one that is estimated to affect over 20,000 people. The country has one of the highest rates of homelessness in the European Union.\n\nSome researchers point to problems of weak data, resulting in significant challenges to documenting both visible and hidden homelessness in Greece. Despite the deterioration of the problem, policies have been developed to address the issue.\n\nOne study found that in Athens, the majority of homeless individuals became homeless in the past five years. Some news reports stated that economic hardship has led to a rise in homeless children in Greece. Many of these children are between the ages of 5 and 14.\n\nScholars maintain that the issue of homeless children in Greece is an under-researched area, with weak policy responses. It is a problem associated with recent patterns of migration to Greece, mainly from Albania.\n"}
{"id": "30249557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30249557", "title": "Human trafficking in Georgia (country)", "text": "Human trafficking in Georgia (country)\n\nHuman trafficking in Georgia is common, where people are subjected to forced prostitution and forced labor. In 2009, women and girls from Georgia were forced into prostitution in Georgia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, and Greece. In recent years, cases of forced prostitution of Georgian victims were also documented in Russia, Germany, and Austria. Men and women have been forced into labor in Georgia, Libya and Turkey. Men from Turkey are also forced into labor in the breakaway region of Abkhazia, which is outside the Georgian government’s control.\n\nThe government of Georgia fully complies with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking. The government demonstrated strong efforts to identify and assist victims of trafficking and again increased its victim assistance funding to $312,000. The government also demonstrated impressive law enforcement success, significantly increasing the number of individuals convicted of trafficking, and again ensuring all convicted trafficking offenders served some time in prison. The Georgian government also demonstrated strong prevention efforts and continued its close partnership with anti-trafficking NGOs in both victim assistance and prevention efforts.\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 1\" in 2017.\n\nStreet children in Georgia, are particularly susceptible to exploitation through means of trafficking. Whether it be through begging or theft by third parties, including their parents, this subcategory of the population is considered to be at risk. Children working in agriculture and in the informal urban economy are especially vulnerable to forced labor.\n\nTrafficking of children is a large concern within this area. Thousands of children living in the streets and in orphanages are trafficked annually. Some families experiencing economic hardship have been forced to separate, which has directly increased the number of children living on the streets in Georgia. This is a direct result of familial stress on the children, which often leads to youth feeling responsible to take on means of supporting the family in hard times, by then bringing in money through illegal means.\n\nAs a large portion of children, who are susceptible to be drawn into the realm of trafficking, are first noted as high-risk youth and street children, it is relevant to note that statistic that UNICEF estimated that 28.8 percent of children ages 5 to 14 years in Georgia were working in 1999. While the majority of working children work in family businesses, and in agriculture in rural areas, there are reports of significant numbers of children, some as young as 5 years old, engaged in begging or working on the streets. Children as young as 9 years old are found working in markets, sometimes at night, and involved in carrying or loading wares. Children also work in cafes, bistros, gas stations, and for street photographers. The relevance of these statistics annotate the sense that a majority of these working children are out in the community, as opposed to working within the safer confines of their homes. Having to go outside the home to work within the community at a young age plays a role in the risk of being a youth in this area. According to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, police violence against street children is a problem. In general, there is a lack of social safety services for children living on the street, with disabilities or from dysfunctional households.\n\nChildren, especially young girls are commonly trafficked for the purposes of Commercial sexual exploitation of children, particularly for prostitution and pornography. In 2003, the statistical bureau of the Supreme Court reported 24 registered cases of the use of children in the drug trade and trafficking. This burden can then lead to negative impacts the female as they mature on both their sexual health, as well as concerns about their mental stability.\n\nThe government of Georgia fully complies with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking where children are involved. During the year, however, local experts expressed serious concerns about the government’s view of its trafficking problem and its lack of effective efforts in the first half of the reporting period to proactively identify victims of this serious crime. In the duration of the reporting period, the government increased the number of trafficking cases investigated and the percentage of prosecutions that resulted in convictions of trafficking offenders. The government also significantly increased funding for anti-trafficking training and trafficking prevention activities, including in the budgets of its shelters for victims. The government significantly increased the number of Georgian officials provided training on victim identification.\n\nThe Government of Georgia demonstrated increased law enforcement efforts during the reporting period. Georgia prohibits all forms of trafficking in persons through Article 143 of its criminal code, which prescribes penalties ranging from seven to 20 years’ imprisonment. These penalties are sufficiently stringent and are commensurate with those for other serious crimes, such as rape. In 2009, the government investigated 33 trafficking cases, compared with 14 investigations in 2008. Authorities prosecuted 40 individuals for trafficking – including three individuals for forced labor – compared with 10 individuals prosecuted for sex trafficking in 2008.\n\nThirty-seven trafficking offenders were convicted in 2009, a significant increase from 10 convicted offenders in 2008. All 37 convicted trafficking offenders were sentenced to time in prison; none received a suspended sentence. The average sentence was 21 years’ imprisonment. There were no reports of trafficking-related complicity of law enforcement personnel from either NGOs or the government. In 2009, the government relied on partnerships with local NGOs and international organizations to provide trafficking training to approximately 170 prosecutors and judges. The training concentrated on mechanisms for proactive victim identification, special methods for investigation and the collection of evidence, and prosecution techniques, and highlighted the importance of partnerships with NGOs, social workers, and psychologists during victim interviews.\n\nThe Georgian government maintained its significant victim assistance efforts over the reporting period. The government allocated a total of $312,000 for victim assistance during the reporting period; of that, it provided $150,000 to fully fund two government-run trafficking shelters, the same amount as funded in 2008. These shelters provided comprehensive victim assistance, including medical aid, psychological counseling, and legal assistance. Victim assistance was not conditional upon cooperating with law enforcement. The government continued to implement a formal mechanism for its officials to identify and refer victims for assistance. The government identified 48 victims in 2009 and referred 15 victims for assistance, an increase from 21 trafficking victims identified in 2008. The government provided shelter and comprehensive assistance to 15 victims, compared with 10 victims in 2008. The government also made available one-time compensation payments of $650 to trafficking victims in 2009. However, no victims applied for the funds during the reporting period. Five victims were given $600 each in 2008. Georgian authorities provided foreign victims legal alternatives to their removal to countries where they would face hardship or retribution; the Law on Legal Status of Foreigners provided a foreign person suspected of being a victim of trafficking the right to a residence permit even if authorities could not prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the person was a victim. In 2009, no foreign victims requested a residence permit. The government cooperated with IOM and fully funded the repatriation of one foreign victim during the reporting period. Victims were encouraged to assist law enforcement with trafficking investigations and prosecutions; 18 victims assisted law enforcement during the reporting period. There were no reports that victims were penalized for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked.\n\nThe Government of Georgia sustained its efforts to prevent trafficking during the reporting period. The government produced and broadcast during the first six months of 2009 a short television public service announcement explaining the nature and danger of human trafficking. The Ministry of Education and Science produced a short television announcement targeting school-age children entitled “Do Not Trade Freedom for Slavery,” which was regularly aired on television.\n\nThe Government of Georgia improved its anti-trafficking prevention activities in 2011 and significantly increased cooperation with NGOs to conduct prevention campaigns. The government began enacting legislation in December 2011. They did this by authorizing the executive branch for the first time to make grants to NGOs. Pursuant to this legislation, the government provided small grants to two NGOs in early 2012 to work on projects related to public awareness of trafficking and information pertaining to victim identification. It also entered into memoranda of understanding with leading NGOs to expand and coordinate cooperation in addressing trafficking.\n\nDuring the year the government conducted multiple information campaigns utilizing a broad array of media, including public service announcements, seminars, and television broadcasts throughout the country. The Civil Registry Agency continued its practice of distributing over 20,000 anti-trafficking related pamphlets when it issued new passports to citizens. The government also conducted numerous outreach events including some focused on specific high risk segments of the population, such as university and high schools students, internally displaced persons, and ethnic minorities living in the regions, would were more likely to be recognized as high-risk groups. Events included numerous panel discussions, a film screening, a peer education campaign, and an essay contest, all which provided research as well as preventative ideas regarding human trafficking in the country. The government distributed 10,000 donor-funded trafficking indicator cards to front-line responders, including law enforcement and border officials. In coordination with NGOs, the government posted anti-trafficking posters on cross-border buses and distributed multilingual leaflets to cross-border truck drivers and others. In November 2011, authorities created a high-level, steering committee to oversee the implementation of an EU-funded project to address street children. In March 2011, the government approved its new anti-trafficking National Action Plan for 2011-2012, produced with extensive collaboration with the NGO community. Because their focus was on human and child trafficking specifically, during the reporting period, the government did not initiate any campaigns to reduce demand for commercial sex acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "6803957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6803957", "title": "Ignacio Ramos", "text": "Ignacio Ramos\n\nIgnacio Ramos is a former United States Border Patrol Agent, who was convicted of shooting an unarmed illegal alien and drug smuggler on the United States–Mexico border. He was convicted of causing serious bodily injury, assault with a deadly weapon, discharge of a firearm in relation to a crime of violence, and a civil rights violation. On January 19, 2009, his sentence was commuted by President Bush and he was released on February 17, 2009.\n\nRamos was found guilty by a jury and sentenced to 11 years and one day in prison for shooting a then unknown Mexican National in the buttocks, Osvaldo Aldrete Dávila, who was caught with over 800 lbs. of drugs, following his non-compliance near Fabens, an unincorporated town in El Paso County, Texas, while Dávila ran away at about 1 PM on February 17, 2006. Fellow agent Jose Compean was sentenced to 12 years. According to U.S. attorney Johnny Sutton, after the shooting the officers disposed of their shell casings, made no further attempt to apprehend the suspect, lied to their supervisors, and filed a false investigative report. Aldrete Dávila had been found with nearly 800 pounds of marijuana in the back of his van. Following the incident, Aldrete Dávila was granted a temporary conditional visitor's visa in exchange for giving his testimony against Ramos and Compean. Ramos and his partner were incarcerated January 17, 2007.\n\nCongressmen Ted Poe and John Culberson indicated that the Department of Homeland Security lied to them about the case when it indicated that it had evidence that the agents \"plotted and conspired that day to go out and shoot\" Mexicans. Richard Skinner, Inspector General of DHS, apologized to the congressmen for misleading them.\n\nAccording to writer Jerome Corsi, the prosecution was initiated at the behest of the Mexican government. Some commentators have questioned Corsi's conclusions.\n\nAldrete Dávila has filed a $5 million lawsuit against the U.S. government, claiming that his civil rights were violated.\n\nA petition for the pardon of the border agents received nearly 240,000 signatures. On January 18, 2007, President George W. Bush agreed to review the case, and Representative Duncan Hunter introduced a bill, titled the Ramos and Compean Act, that would pardon the two agents, though the United States Constitution does not grant Congress the authority to issue pardons.\n\nOn 6 February 2007 Representative Tom Tancredo and Ramos' relatives reported to the Associated Press that Ramos had been beaten by fellow inmates in prison. His wife Mrs. Monica Ramos told the AP that he had \"let his guard down\" and been stomped and kicked for several minutes.\n\nOn April 23, 2007 the border patrol union released a no-confidence resolution against Chief David V. Aguilar for his failure to back up Ramos during the case. The union had also made a rebuttal responding to United States Attorney Sutton's reasons why convicting the agents was justified.\n\nThe Senate Judiciary Committee examined the prosecution in July 2007 after which Senator Dianne Feinstein asked President Bush to commute the sentences.\n\nOn September 25, 2007 a legal appeal concerning the conviction of Ramos and Compean was filed with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans and in December 2007, the case was heard. Judge E. Grady Jolly stated, \"It does seem to me that the government overreacted here... If the agents had reported the shooting as required, \"this prosecution never would have occurred, in all likelihood.\" For over the next 6-months nothing more was reported. Then, on July 28, 2008, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals rejected the appeals of both Ramos and Compean.\n\nOn 19 January 2009, President Bush commuted the sentences of both Ramos and Compean, effectively ending their prison term on March 20, 2009. The commutation was condemned by Mexico's Deputy Secretary for Foreign Relations Carlos Rico.\n\nAlthough Bush commuted the two men's sentences, he did not grant them a full pardon, thus leaving Compean and Ramos with criminal records that made it hard for them to find jobs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38366795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38366795", "title": "Jasti Eswara Prasad", "text": "Jasti Eswara Prasad\n\nJasti Eswara Prasad (born 4 August 1934) is a retired Indian judge. He was formerly the Judge of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and High Court of Karnataka.\n\nPrasad was born at Madras in a family of lawyers. His father, the late J. Sambasiva Rao Chowdary was a Judicial Officer, who retired as a District and Sessions Judge. His mother, Late J. Seetamahalakshmi was a leading Lawyer of Madras and A.P.High Courts and was an M.L.C As a child, Prasad suffered from paralysis.\n\nPrasad graduated from Madras University, and graduated in Law from Osmania University. He enrolled as Advocate in the year 1959 and was an apprentice and junior in the Chambers of his mother.\n\nPrasad held the position of the Judge of A.P. High Court from March 1990 to April 1994. Subsequently, he was Judge of the Karnataka High Court from April 1994 till his retirement in August 1996, overseeing constitutional, civil, taxation and Criminal Cases. One high-profile case related to Secularism and the role of the State.\n\nIn January 1997 he was appointed as Chairman of the Special Court under the Andhra Pradesh Land Grabbing Prohibition Act. He streamlined the administration of the Court and disposed several cases and put a halt to the land grabbing activities.\n\nSubsequently, he was appointed as Chairman of the Appellate Tribunal for Forfeited Property, New Delhi in March 1997 for a period of three years and he was reappointed in March 2000 and held the post till his retirement in March 2003. Prasad took steps to ensure implementation of the statutory provisions prohibiting the trade in drugs, foreign exchange manipulation and the smuggling activities. He conducted proceedings of the Tribunal in various parts of the country, addressing and meeting with senior officers of the State and Central Governments.\n\nPrasad organized two National Level seminars at New Delhi on Combating Terrorism and other crimes through Forfeiture of Property and on Curbing Smuggling and Foreign Exchange Manipulations. The seminars were addressed by the Chief Justice of India, several union ministers, judges of the Supreme Court and High Court, senior officers and others.\n\nPrasad passed orders upholding the forfeiture of large properties of terrorists and smugglers in the country. Justice Eswara Prasad had also suggested several amendments to the law, both as a judge as well as Chairman of the Tribunal, for removing loopholes in the law and for their proper implementation, many of which have been enacted.\n\n"}
{"id": "33553533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33553533", "title": "Jita language", "text": "Jita language\n\nJita is a Bantu language of Tanzania. Jita–Kara–Kwaya are close to being dialects.\n\nLike most Bantu languages, Jita is tonal. A detailed analysis of Jita tone has been made by Downing (1990), (1996), and (2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "57033964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57033964", "title": "Joanne Belknap", "text": "Joanne Belknap\n\nJoanne Elizabeth Belknap is a U.S. criminologist and Professor of Ethnic Studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder (UC-Boulder). Joanne Belknap received a Ph.D. in Criminal Justice from Michigan State University in 1986. She is a Professor of Ethnic Studies at the University of Colorado and Past-President of the American Society of Criminology. She is also an adjunct professor on the faculty of law at Queensland University of Technology, School of Justice, in Brisbane, Australia. Her research is primarily on gender-based abuse and the trajectory of trauma to offending among women and youth, and the intersections of marginalization and oppression, and social justice. Dr. Belknap published the fourth edition of her book, \"The Invisible Woman: Gender, Crime, and Justice\", in 2015. She has secured almost two million dollars in research grant money, has served on state advisory boards for female offenders and women in prison, on U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno's Violence Against Women Committee, gave expert testimony to the Warren Christopher Commission investigating the Rodney King police brutality incident in Los Angeles, and served as a pro bono advisor on criminal justice policy for the Obama presidential campaign. Dr. Belknap has won numerous research, teaching and service awards. Her most recent research work is on jail-to-community reentry and implementing college courses in prisons after being trained by the Inside-Out Prison Exchange Program .\n\n"}
{"id": "21829130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21829130", "title": "Joel A. Pisano", "text": "Joel A. Pisano\n\nJoel A. Pisano (born 1949) is a former United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.\n\nBorn in Orange, New Jersey, Pisano received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Lafayette College in 1971 and a Juris Doctor from Seton Hall University School of Law in 1974.\n\nPisano was an assistant deputy public defender in the New Jersey Office of the Public Defender from 1974 to 1978. He was in private practice in New Jersey from 1978 to 1991.\n\nPisano was a United States Magistrate Judge of the District of New Jersey from 1991 to 2000. On September 22, 1999, Pisano was nominated by President Bill Clinton to a seat on the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey vacated by the elevation of Maryanne Trump Barry to the Third Circuit. Pisano was confirmed by the United States Senate on February 10, 2000, and received his commission on February 16, 2000. He retired from active service on February 16, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "41907493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41907493", "title": "Lattitude Global Volunteering", "text": "Lattitude Global Volunteering\n\nLattitude Global Volunteering (formerly GAP Activity Projects) is an international charity established in Reading, Berkshire, in 1972 to provide 17- to 25-year-olds with support to travel outside of their own community, in most cases to other countries, where they will spend several months assisting with care or educational projects.\n\nIn 2012 Lattitude co-ordinated activities for their 40,000th volunteer. The group is also credited with helping to coin the term \"gap year\" from its original name.\n\nOriginally known as GAP Activity Projects, the not-for-profit organisation was founded in 1972 with the mission of creating safe and worthwhile volunteer work for school leavers before moving onto university.\n\nThe group was officially recognised as a charity in 1976 as they continued to expand the number volunteer opportunities around the world.\n\nIn 2000 the organisation co-founded the Year Out Group to promote the benefits of well-structured year out programmes.\n\n2001 saw the opening of three new offices in Australia, New Zealand and Canada.\n\nIn 1995 the organisation was placing 1,500 volunteers per year. By 2005 that number had grown to 2,000.\n\nDespite coining the term \"gap year\" from its name, GAP Activity Projects relaunched in 2008 as Lattitude Global Volunteering. Lattitude state that this is to reflect that the organisation is focused on international volunteering projects for young people.\n\nThe change came less than one year after the clothing retailer Gap had taken a gap year company named \"Gap Sports\" to court over trademark infringement. At the time, a member of the Year Out Group mentioned that Gap Sports was not the only member to have faced a challenge from Gap Inc.\". Whether or not the name change around this time is coincidental is unknown.\n\nVolunteers may select from a number of educational, social or environmental placements throughout the world.\n\nVolunteers are required to pay a fee to cover the expenses of the charity as well arranging and paying for their own transport. To reduce the likelihood of cost being a barrier to entry, a range of scholarships providing financial support are available along with on fundraising advice and grants.\n\nOnce at their placement, volunteers will have their food and accommodation provided. In most instances a portion of the fee is returned to the volunteer over the course of the stay as an allowance. Placements last between 3 and 12 months.\n\n"}
{"id": "51758692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51758692", "title": "Liberation (painting)", "text": "Liberation (painting)\n\nLiberation () is a 1974 painting by the Norwegian artist Odd Nerdrum. It depicts a room with a mattress where a couple have sexual intercourse with the woman on top of the passive man.\n\nNerdrum's art from the period 1968–1983 is characterized by everyday realism and left-wing politics. \"Liberation\" was created in this context, where the radical left propounded a sexual revolution as a way to create a socialist utopia by politicizing every aspect of human life, especially sexuality. Nerdrum made several paintings on the topic of what was considered sexual liberation. The most famous of these are \"Liberation\" from 1974 and \"Spring\" (\"Vår\") from 1977.\n\nThe painting was first presented at Høstutstillingen in 1974. It was exhibited at the Oslo gallery Kunstnerforbundet in 1976 as part of the exhibition Odd Nerdrum Malerier (\"Odd Nerdrum Paintings\").\n"}
{"id": "271488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271488", "title": "Lipovans", "text": "Lipovans\n\nLipovans or Lippovans (, , , ) are Old Believers, mostly of Russian ethnic origin, who settled in Romania in the Moldavian Principality, and in the regions of Dobruja and Eastern Muntenia. According to the Romanian census of 2002, there are a total of 35,791 Lipovans in Romania, of whom 21,623 live in Dobruja.\n\nThe accepted etymology is that it is derived from the name of Nikita Pustosvyat (1672–1742), leader of the group of dissenters who emigrated to what is now Romania; its members were referred to as \"Filippoveni\", abbreviated to \"Lipoveni\". Other suggestions include relations to the Slavic word Липа, \"lipa\", meaning \"linden tree\", or to \"Filippovka\", a holiday name dedicated to Saint Philip.\n\nThe Lipovans emigrated from Russia in the 18th century, as dissenters from the main Russian Orthodox Church. They settled along the Prut River in Moldavia and in the Danube Delta. They have maintained strong religious traditions which predate the reforms of the Russian Orthodox Church undertaken during the rule of Patriarch Nikon. When the Patriarch made changes to worship in 1652, some believers carried on worshipping in the \"old way\". In that sense, they continued to speak Old Russian, to cross themselves with two fingers instead of three, and to keep their beards. The Russian government and the Orthodox Church persecuted them, and as a result some committed suicide by burning themselves (self-burning: \"soshigateli\"), with many others being forced to emigrate.\n\nIn 1876, the Lipovans were joined by members of the Skoptsy sect, who also emigrated to Romania to escape persecution.\n\nLipovans were considered to be schismatic by the Russian Orthodox Church, although relations have improved recently. (See main article on Old Believers.)\n\nThe main centre of Lipovan community in Ukraine is the town of Vylkove, which has its own church, St Nicholas. In order to construct their homes, the Lipovans create islets of dry land by digging mud out from trenches and making a series of canals. The house walls are made of reed and mud, and thatching is standard for the roofing. Because of the characteristics of these materials, the buildings have a tendency to sink into the mud and need to be rebuilt every few years.\n\nThe population is popularly known as having red hair.\n\nFor details on the Lipovans in Bulgaria, see Russians in Bulgaria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "949778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949778", "title": "List of architecture firms", "text": "List of architecture firms\n\nThe following is a list of architectural firms. It includes worldwide examples of architecture firms, companies, practices, partnerships, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48483569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48483569", "title": "Marital debt", "text": "Marital debt\n\nMarital debt (commonly referred as conjugal debt) is a spouse's sexual commitment to one another. The concept stems from descriptions found in canon law of medieval Europe.\n\nDuring the later medieval period (10th to 15th centuries), a new scholastic way thinking allowed the Church to solidify doctrine, leading to the formation of ecclesiastical law. This new wave of thinking stemmed from the revival and codification of some Roman laws. Particular works from Irneius and his students in 1112 and 1125 in particular, reconstructed some laws of Justinian's Code. Work on laws allowed scholars to debate the issues like marriage as a sacrament. Biblical references to marriage, like that found in 1 Corinthians 7 alludes to it as a preventative measure for \"sexual immorality.\" Scholars like Gratian of Bologna were quick to posit their theories on marriage. His 12th century work, \"Decretum Gratiani,\" became an early text example for other canon law studies and it is here where the earliest account for marital debt is found. In it, he writes that marriage arose from wishing to prevent further sin through fornication. Gratian is also quick to point out four main reasons people may have for getting married: that is for offspring, to pay the debt, or the obligation of sex, for incontinence, or to satisfy lust and for the sake of pleasure.\n\nA pattern of reciprocal sexual obligation then emerged. Spousal consent, from interpretations on marital debt, allowed spouses to more easily influence the lives of their other spouse. They lived in communal bond, a sexual bond known as a \"conjugal domicile\". One notable example of the strength of this bond, was when a husband wished to leave his marriage for a monastic life but he remains in a sexual debt to his wife. He, therefore, could only leave for the monastery if his wife consents to his departure.\n\nEcclesiastical courts were increasingly becoming a venue for couples to resolve marital disputes in the 11th and 12th centuries. It thus became important for the church to further consolidate and solidify canon law, so the courts could resolve the numerous cases. These increasingly strict canon laws made it much more difficult to get divorced or have a marriage annulled. One way to get a marriage annulment was if one spouse was impotent, in other words, if they could not fulfill the marital debt. In these cases, the healthy spouse could remarry while the impotent one could not. There was some disagreement amongst the clergy about cases where a person was capable of fulfilling the conjugal debt, but was sterile and could not procreate. In these cases, some thought that you needed to be able to procreate to maintain the marriage.\n\nConjugal debt also had implications in terms of gender equality. For example, a woman had just as much right as a man to demand the debt. The conjugal debt \"took precedence over most other duties.\" Even in the case where a lord had called a man to rally. If his wife had insisted on the debt, \"the wife's rights took precedence over the lord's.\" A similar situation applied for crusading. If a man wanted to go on crusade he needed permission from his wife, because \"his departure would deprive her of the sexual solace that he owed to her.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5410338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5410338", "title": "Namtar (biography)", "text": "Namtar (biography)\n\nA namtar (), sometimes spelled namthar is a spiritual biography or hagiography in Tibetan Buddhism.\n\n\"Namtar\" is a contraction of \"nampar tharpa\" (), which literally means 'complete liberation'. This name refers to the fact that the texts tell stories of yogis or Indo-Tibetan Mahasiddha who attained complete enlightenment. Namtars do not focus on a literal chronology of events, but rather function as a kind of learning example that hits the key points of the yogi's sprititual life. Such a text would serve as an example of buddhahood for any practitioner of Vajrayana and complement the \"tantras\" in imparting instructions on specific tantric spiritual practices. According to Janice D. Willis, the focus on spiritual practice forms an essential difference between Christian and Tibetan hagiography.\nIn her book \"Women of Wisdom\", Tsultrim Allione voices it thus: The sacred biography is called 'rNam.thar' in Tibetan, which literally means 'complete liberation.' The 'rNam.thar' are specially geared to provide records for those on a spiritual quest, in much the same way that someone about to climb a high mountain would seek out the chronicles of those who had made the climb before. The sacred biographer is primarily concerned with providing information which will be helpful and inspirational for someone following in the footsteps of the spiritual adept or 'saint.' Establishing a mythical ideal and the communication of the sacred teachings takes precedence over providing a narrative portrait or \"likeness\" of the subject as a personality. The personality is stressed only in so far as it relates to the spiritual process of the individual.\n\nWestern academic tradition often portrays this type of text in an unfavourable light. It mainly criticizes the Tibetan hagiography for its inclusion of miraculous events and repetition of the protagonist's sanctity. Some scholars have therefore proposed that the \"Namtar\" has no historical value whatsoever.\n\nAll Tibetan \"Namtar\" consist of three parts:\n\nMainly the third of these levels has caused western scholars to criticize this form of literature. Willis however defends their historical value by arguing that the miraculous parts of the secret biography may be interpreted as a metaphor for tantric practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "38653484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38653484", "title": "Nguluwan language", "text": "Nguluwan language\n\nNguluwan is a mixed language spoken on an atoll of that name between Yap and Palau. The grammar and lexicon are Yapese, but the phonology has been affected by Ulithian, and speakers are shifting to that language.\n"}
{"id": "1596718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1596718", "title": "Paul Schäfer", "text": "Paul Schäfer\n\nPaul Schäfer Schneider (4 December 1921 – 24 April 2010) was the founder and former leader of a sect and agricultural commune of German immigrants called Colonia Dignidad (\"Dignity Colony\")—later renamed Villa Baviera—located in the south of Chile, about south of Santiago. \n\nSchäfer was born in Troisdorf, Germany, and joined the Hitler Youth movement at a young age. He served as a medic in the Wehrmacht during World War II, where he reached the rank of Corporal. Following the war, he set up a children's home and Baptist ministry. In 1959, he created the Private Social Mission, purportedly a charitable organization. That same year, he was charged with sexually abusing two children and fled West Germany with some of his followers.\nSchäfer followed the teachings of American preacher, William M. Branham, one of the founders of the post-World War II healing revival who was also an influence on Jim Jones. Branham advocated \"a strict adherence to the Bible, a woman's duty to obey her husband and apocalyptic visions, such as Los Angeles sinking beneath the ocean.\" \n\nSchäfer resurfaced in Chile in 1961, where the government at the time, led by conservative President Jorge Alessandri, granted him permission to create the Dignidad Beneficent Society on a farm outside of Parral. Founded primarily on Baptist principles and anti-communism, this society evolved into the \"Colonia Dignidad\" community.\n\nSchäfer disappeared on 20 May 1997, fleeing child sex abuse charges, this time filed by Chilean authorities under Christian Democrat President Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle after 26 children who went to the commune's free clinic and school reported abuse. He was tried in Chile in his absence and found guilty in late 2004. Schäfer was found on 10 March 2005, nearly eight years after his disappearance, hiding in a suburb known as Las Acacias, from Buenos Aires, Argentina. Following two days of negotiations between Chilean and Argentine authorities, Schäfer was sent back to Chile to face a court hearing. There, he was charged with being involved in the 1976 disappearance of the political activist Juan Maino, and he remained in custody until his death. Schäfer was also under investigation in Chile in connection with the disappearance of Russian mathematician Boris Weisfeiler and alleged human rights abuses. He was also wanted in Germany and France in connection with earlier child abuse allegations. Investigations by Amnesty International and the Chilean National Commission for Truth and Reconciliation Report have verified that Colonia Dignidad was used by DINA, the Chilean secret police, as a torture and detention center during Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship.\n\nOn 24 May 2006, Schäfer was sentenced to 33 years in jail for sexually abusing 25 children and was ordered to pay 770 million pesos (approximately US$1.5 million) to 11 minors whose representatives established suits. Schäfer was found guilty of 20 counts of dishonest abuses and five counts of child rape, all committed between 1993 and 1997.\n\nOn 24 April 2010, Schäfer died at the Santiago de Chile's Ex-Penitentiary's Hospital due to a heart failure. He was 88 years old. It was later revealed that he was suffering from a severe cardiac illness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1113916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1113916", "title": "Pebco Three", "text": "Pebco Three\n\nThe Pebco Three were three black South African anti-apartheid activists who were abducted and subsequently murdered in 1985 by members of the South African Security Police.\n\nAfter an increase in the cost of living for the Black population in Port Elizabeth – following a 100% rent-fee price hike in the late 1970s – the residents of Port Elizabeth decided to organise themselves and form an organisation that would challenge socio-economic injustices that were meted out on Black people including the apartheid regime. On the 10 October 1979, after having officially established the Port Elizabeth Black Civic Organisation (PEBCO), a public meeting was held where it was decided that a protest against the increase in rent, transport, fuel and lighting, township services charges and food costs be held. PEBCO's immediate aims and demands were: to fight for equal rights for all people of Port Elizabeth; to fight all discriminatory legislation enacted by the government and local authorities; to seek participation in decision making on all matters affecting the people of South Africa; to fight for the granting of the right to Blacks to buy land under freehold title at any place of their choice; and to resist any attempt, direct or indirect, to deprive Blacks of their South African citizenship. Their fundamental aim included the creation of one municipality for the whole of Port Elizabeth, therefore rejecting the system of community councils and separate municipalities for Blacks and Whites.\n\nThe 1980s proved to be a volatile period for activism in Port Elizabeth and as such, leaders of PEBCO were detained for short stints from time to time. In 1980, five of its leaders were detained, including Thozamile Botha, the founding member, who in the previous year – 1979 – was dismissed at the Ford Company in New Brighton for his political involvement and organising workers on site. He soon left the country in May 1980 to join the ANC in exile, leaving his comrade Qaqawuli Godolozi as PEBCO's new president. Five years later, on 8 May 1985, three members – Sipho Hashe, Champion Galela, and Qaqawuli Godolozi – disappeared from the airport in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. This was due to the fact that PEBCO had now affiliated itself with the United Democratic Front (UDF), which was believed by some at the time to be an internal wing of the then-banned African National Congress (ANC). As a result of the three's disappearance, the Consumer Boycott Committee organised a huge consumer boycott which began in July 1985. Although it was strongly suspected that the Security Police had something to do with the three activists' disappearance, nothing was known of their fate of until November 1997.\n\nOn 11 November, former Security Police Officer Colonel Gideon Nieuwoudt, while applying for amnesty during a Truth and Reconciliation Commission hearing, confessed to participating in the beating, robbery, and murder of the PEBCO Three. According to his testimony, Nieuwoudt lured the three men by having a paid police informant pose as a British embassy official interested in providing a cash donation to PEBCO call Sipho Hashe at his home. The informant convinced Sipho and his two friends to come to the airport to pick up the donation. (Nieuwoudt later refused to name the informant for fear of his safety.) The three men were apprehended by members of the Security Police and taken to an abandoned police station on a farm at Post Chalmers, near Cradock. They were then interrogated, stripped of their possessions, beaten, sedated, and finally strangled. The bodies were burned and the remains were thrown into the nearby Fish River. Eugene de Kock a former head of section C1 at the Vlakplaas farm north of Pretoria where many of these atrocities occurred – in his submission to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) about the death of the PEBCO Three – admits to this and writes that in late 1985 there began an altercation between two members of his Vlakplaas team, sergeant Joe Mamasela and warrant officer Gert Beeslaar who had been involved in an operation in Port Elizabeth in which the PEBCO Three were murdered.\n\nAlso incriminated in the case were former policemen Johan Martin Van Zyl and Johannes Koole. Van Zyl voluntarily surrendered to police in Port Elizabeth on 11 February 2004. He had been out of the country on a murder and three counts of assault to do grievous bodily harm. The trial was set for 12 October, but has since been postponed by the defence, pending aTruth and Reconciliation Commission review of the 1989 Motherwell Bombing in which Nieuwoudt was also involved. The TRC refused to grant amnesty to the three perpetrators Van Zyl, Nieuwoudt and Lotz, citing that the three had failed to make a full disclosure in the case of the PEBCO Three.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34712456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34712456", "title": "Pennsylvania LGBT Equality Caucus", "text": "Pennsylvania LGBT Equality Caucus\n\nThe Pennsylvania LGBT Equality Caucus is an organization of sitting members of the Pennsylvania General Assembly who are in favor of equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Pennsylvanians. It was formed on December 19, 2011, with Representatives Dan Frankel and Babette Josephs serving as the first co-chairs, and is open to all sexual orientations and gender identities.\n\nIronically, unlike other LGBT-focused caucuses in other state or federal legislatures which are formed around openly LGBT sitting legislators (i.e., the LGBT Equality Caucus in the U.S. Congress), the Pennsylvania was formed without any openly LGBT sitting legislators, as none had yet been elected to political positions at the time of its formation.\n\nThe caucus now has two out members. They are Rep. Brian Sims (D – 182) and Rep. Mike Fleck (R – 81). Sims became the first openly gay man to be elected to the General Assembly in November 2012; Mike Fleck, an incumbent, came out after the election.\n\nAs of May 2013, 58 members of Pennsylvania General Assembly are members of the Pennsylvania LGBT Equality Caucus.\n\nPennsylvania House of Representatives:\n\n\nPennsylvania State Senate:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2672513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2672513", "title": "Political extremism in Japan", "text": "Political extremism in Japan\n\nWhile Japan's political mainstream has the DPJ and the LDP as dominant forces, there is political extremism to the left and the right.\n\nNeither left- nor right-wing extremists managed to wrest power from the LDP in post-war history, but they managed to influence public opinion on certain topics. These include Sino-Japanese relations, the role of the military, and national symbolism. On some topics, like the Yasukuni Shrine, all three elements play a role.\n\nThe public and the government appear to tolerate certain forms of public disorder as inherent to a properly functioning democracy. Demonstrations usually follow established forms. Groups receive legal permits and keep to assigned routes and areas. Placards and bullhorns are used to express positions. Traffic is sometimes disrupted, and occasional shoving battles between police and protesters results. But arrests are rare and are generally made only in cases involving violence.\n\nAlthough members of extremist groups represent only a minute portion of the population and present no serious threat to the government, authorities are concerned about the example set by the groups' violence, as well as by particular violent events. Violent protests by radicals also occur in the name of fringe causes without meaningful public support. Occasional clashes between leftist factions and rightist factions have injured participants.\n\nAccording to the 1989 Asahi Nenkan, there were 14,400 activist members of the \"extreme left wing\" organized into five major \"currents\" (ryū) and twenty-seven or twenty-eight different factions. Total membership was about 35,000. New-left activity focused on the New Tokyo International Airport at Narita-Sanrizuka. In the early 1970s, radical groups and normally conservative farmers formed a highly unusual alliance to oppose expropriation of the latter's land for the airport's construction. Confrontations at the construction site, which pitted thousands of farmers and radicals against riot police, were violent but generally nonlethal. Although the airport was completed and began operations during the 1980s, the resistance continued, on a reduced scale. Radicals attempted to halt planned expansion of the airport by staging guerrilla attacks on those directly or indirectly involved in promoting the plan. By 1990 this activity had resulted in some deaths. There were also attacks against places associated with the emperor. In January 1990, leftists fired homemade rockets at imperial residences in Tokyo and Kyoto.\n\nIn terms of terrorist activities, the most important new-left group was the Japanese Red Army (Nihon Sekigun). Formed in 1969, it was responsible for, among other acts, the hijacking of a domestic Japan Airlines jet to Pyongyang in 1970 and the 1972 Lod Airport massacre. It also participated in the Laju incident, an attack on a Shell oil refinery in Singapore in 1974, and seized the French embassy in The Hague that same year and the United States and Swedish embassies in Kuala Lumpur in 1975.\nIn 1977 the Japanese Red Army hijacked a Japan Airlines jet over India in a successful demand for a US$6 million ransom and the release of six inmates in Japanese prisons.\n\nIts activists developed close connections with international terrorist groups, including Palestinian liberation movements like the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. The Japanese Red Army also had close ties with the Kim Il Sung regime in North Korea. The group was tightly organized, and one scholar has suggested that its \"managerial style\" resembled that of major Japanese corporations.\n\nFollowing heavy criticism at home and abroad for the government's \"caving in\" to terrorists' demands, the authorities announced their intention to recall and reissue approximately 5.6 million valid Japanese passports to make hijacking more difficult. A special police unit was formed to keep track of the terrorist group, and tight airport security measures were instigated. Despite issuing regular threats, the Japanese Red Army was relatively inactive in the 1980s. In 1990 its members were reported to be in North Korea and Lebanon undergoing further training and were available as mercenaries to promote various political causes.\n\nFusako Shigenobu, the founder and leader, was arrested in Osaka, Japan in November 2000.\n\nRight-wing extremists were extremely diverse. In 1989 there were 800 such groups with about 120,000 members altogether. By police count, however, only about fifty groups and 23,000 individuals were considered active. Right-wing extremists indulged in a heady romanticism with strong links to the prewar period. They tended to be fascinated with the macho charisma of blood, sweat, and steel, and they promoted (like many nonradical groups) traditional samurai values as the antidote to the spiritual ills of postwar Japan. Their preference for violent direct action rather than words reflected the example of the militarist extremists of the 1930s and the heroic \"men of strong will\" of the late Tokugawa period of the 1850s and 1860s. The modern right-wing extremists demanded an end to the postwar \"system of dependence\" on the United States, restoration of the emperor to his prewar, divine status, and repudiation of Article 9. Many, if not most, right-wingers had intimate connections with Japan's gangster underground, the yakuza. Japanese right-wing extremists (Uyoku dantai) are notable for their use of black buses, which often carry loudspeakers broadcasting nationalistic slogans.\n\nThe ritual suicide of one of Japan's most prominent novelists, Mishima Yukio, following a failed attempt to initiate a rebellion among Self-Defense Forces units in November 1970, shocked and fascinated the public. Mishima and his small private army, the Shield Society (Tatenokai), hoped that a rising of the Self-Defense Forces would inspire a nationwide affirmation of the old values and put an end to the postwar \"age of languid peace.\"\n\nAlthough a rightist were also responsible for the assassination of socialist leader Asanuma Inejiro in 1960 and an attempt on the life of former prime minister Ohira Masayoshi in 1978, most of them, unlike their prewar counterparts, largely kept to noisy street demonstrations, especially harassment campaigns aimed at conventions of the leftist Japan Teachers Union. In the early 1990s, however, there was evidence that a \"new right\" was becoming more violent. In May 1987, a reporter working for the liberal Asahi Shimbun was killed by a gunman belonging to the Sekihotai (Blood Revenge Corps). The Sekihotai also threatened to assassinate former Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone for giving in to foreign pressure on such issues as the revision of textbook accounts of Japan's war record. In January 1990, a member of the Seikijuku (translatable as the (Sane Thinkers) School) shot and seriously wounded Nagasaki mayor Motoshima Hitoshi. The attack may have been provoked by the mayor's critical remarks concerning Emperor Hirohito.\n\nThat attack came two days after the left-wing Chukakuha (Middle Core Faction), opposed to the imperial system, claimed responsibility for firing a rocket onto the grounds of the residence of the late emperor's brother and a day before the government announced the events leading to the enthronement of Emperor Akihito in November 1990. The enthronement ceremonies were considered likely targets for extremist groups on the left and the right who saw the mysticism surrounding the emperor as being overemphasized or excessively reduced respectively, but no serious incidents took place.\n\nMore recently, the Zaitokukai have been focusing their attention on anti-Korean demonstrations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4512580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4512580", "title": "Posting (laundering process)", "text": "Posting (laundering process)\n\nPosting or postadh (Scottish Gaelic) is a term formerly used in Scotland for a process in washing clothes. It means to trample with the feet, or the act of trampling or treading. In scouring woollen clothing, blankets or coarse linen, when the strength of the arms and manual friction are found insufficient, Highland women put them in a tub with a prop – or quantity of water, then, with petticoats tucked up, they began to \"post\", which they continued until every part of the clothes received an effectual cleansing. When three women were employed, one usually tramped in the middle, and the other two tramped around her. Treading cloth with the feet, a time-consuming and laborious practice, has long been superseded by mechanical methods, starting in the Industrial Revolution.\n\nThere is some overlap with the process of making cloth, in that both involve textiles immersed in water. The processing of woollen cloth, known in English as fulling or tucking, was \"waulking\" in Scots, hence the waulking songs that the women sang as they worked.\n\n\n (Postadh)\n"}
{"id": "17615674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17615674", "title": "Prostitution in Europe", "text": "Prostitution in Europe\n\nThe legality of prostitution in Europe varies by country.\n\nSome countries outlaw the act of engaging in sexual activity in exchange for money, while others allow prostitution itself, but not most forms of procuring (such as operating brothels, facilitating the prostitution of another, deriving financial gain from the prostitution of another, soliciting/loitering)...\n\nIn eight European countries (The Netherlands, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Greece, Turkey, Hungary, and Latvia), prostitution is legal and regulated.\n\nThe degree of enforcement of the anti-prostitution laws vary by country, by region and by city. In many places, there is a big discrepancy between the laws which exist on the books and what happens in practice.\n\nDepending on the country, various prostitution related activities may be prohibited (where a specific law forbids such activity), decriminalized (where there is no specific law either forbidding or allowing and regulating the activity), or regulated (where a specific law explicitly allows and regulates the activity if certain conditions are met). Activities which are subject to the prostitution laws include: selling and buying sexual services, soliciting in public places, running brothels, deriving financial gain from the prostitution of another, offering premises to be used for prostitution etc. Often, the prostitution laws are not clear-cut, and are subject to interpretation, leading to many legal loopholes. While the policy regarding adult prostitution differs by country, child prostitution is illegal throughout Europe. Similarly, human trafficking, forced prostitution, and other abusive activities are also prohibited.\n\nThe legal and social treatment of prostitution differs widely by country. Very permissive prostitution policies exist in the Netherlands and Germany, and these countries are major destinations for international sex tourism. Amsterdam's prostitution windows are famous all over the world. In Sweden, Norway, Iceland, Northern Ireland, France, and the Republic of Ireland, it is illegal to pay for sex, but not to be a prostitute (the client commits a crime, but not the prostitute). In parts of Central and Eastern Europe, the anti-prostitution laws target the prostitutes, because in these countries, prostitution is condemned from a moral or conservative viewpoint. Other countries which have restrictive prostitution policies and officially affirm an anti-prostitution stance are Great Britain and Italy. In countries such as Spain, Belgium, and the Czech Republic, attitudes are more \"laissez-faire\" and tolerant, but prostitution is not officially recognized as a job, and not officially and legally regulated, and pimping is forbidden.\n\nProstitution in Armenia is illegal under administrative law (Article 179.1). Related activities such as running a brothel and pimping are prohibited by the Criminal Code, although there are known to be brothels in the capital, Yerevan, and in Gyumri. According to UNESCO, since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, prostitution in the country has grown. There are about 5,600 women involved in prostitution in Armenia, roughly 1,500 of them are in Yerevan. However, official police figures are far lower, for example 240 in 2012. Police and other safety forces reportedly tolerate prostitution. Many women turn to prostitution due to unemployment.\nProstitution in Azerbaijan is illegal but common. Prostitution is an administrative offence and punishable by a fine. Keeping a brothel is a criminal offence and punishable by up to 6 years imprisonment. In 2017 a draft law proposing to add heavy fines to the punishment for keeping a brothel was before the National Assembly. It has been estimated that there are 25,054 prostitutes in Azerbaijan, some of which are aged 15 – 18. \nProstitution is illegal in Belarus but commonplace and is an administrative, rather than criminal, offence. Running a brothel is forbidden and engaging in other means of pimping are punishable by up to 10 years in prison. UNAIDS estimated there were 22,000 sex workers in Belarus in 2016.\nProstitution itself is legal, but organised prostitution (brothels, prostitution rings, or other forms of procuring) is prohibited. Because of poor socioeconomic conditions, a high number of Romani women are involved in prostitution.\n\nBulgaria originally gained a reputation as a transit country for human trafficking, but subsequently, it has become known as a destination where the sex trade takes place.\n\nThe Bulgarian government has stepped up its efforts to eradicate human trafficking. The sex trade is a major source of income for Bulgarian criminals. In 2013 there were 20,000 Bulgarian prostitutes working abroad and this was a source of foreign exchange earnings for Bulgaria.\nIn the past, the Bulgarian government considered fully legalizing and regulating prostitution.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, prostitution is legal, but brothels and other forms of procuring are prohibited. The enforcement of these laws is lax, and prostitution and other activities which surround it are very common in the country.\n\nEver since the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia in 1989 led to the creation of the two independent states Czech Republic and Slovakia, prostitution has been flourishing, and has contributed its share to the region's booming tourist economy. It is widespread in Prague and areas near the Republic's borders with Germany and Austria. In 2002, the Czech Statistical Bureau estimated the trade to be worth six billion Czech koruna ($217 million) a year.\nIn Georgia, prostitution is illegal but widespread, particularly in the capital, Tbilisi. Many NGO's attribute this to the harsh economic conditions according to the US State Department. Prostitution occurs on the streets, in bars, nightclubs, hotels and brothels. UNAIDS estimate there are 6,525 prostitutes in Georgia.\n\nThe Black Sea resorts, especially Gonio, become a sex tourism destination in the summer months. many prostitutes, mainly Central Asian and from the North Caucasus come to the area. Due to the close proximity of the Turkey border, and no vista requirements for Turks, many men from Turkey come to the area to find prostitutes.\n\nProstitution is legal and regulated in Hungary. (It has been legalized and regulated by the government since 1999.) Under the law, prostitutes are professionals who engage in sexual activities in exchange for money. The government allows this activity as long as they pay taxes and keep legal documents.\n\nIn 2007, the prostitution and pornography industry in Hungary was estimated by Hungary's tax authority APEH to generate $1 billion annually.\nIn Kazakhstan prostitution itself is legal, but acts facilitating prostitution, such as operating a brothel or prostitution ring, are illegal. Forced prostitution and prostitution connected to organized crime are prohibited. NGOs reported that criminal prostitution rings often included local law enforcement officials.\n\nEstimates of the number of prostitutes in Kazakhstan vary from 4,000 and 25.000, including a number from Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Ukraine.\n\nSex workers often face harassment, extortion, arbitrary arrest, rape and violence from the police.\nProstitution in Moldova is an illegal activity but is widespread and socially acceptable.\n\nMorals Police captain Vladimir Istrati is quoted as saying \"Prostitution in Moldova is a very well organised crime, there is a precise structure of operation which includes secretary, office and owner.\" The secretary is hard to file evidence against because they are most likely to conceal their true activity behind offering exotic services over the phone. Nailing down prostitutes and pimps is easier.\"\n\nIn Poland prostitution is legal, but operating brothels or other forms of pimping or coercive prostitution and prostitution of minors are prohibited, as is living off someone else's prostitution.\n\nProstitution is present in various forms in the country and a 2007 US State Department report stated that many women who worked as prostitutes were employed in massage parlors and escort services that functioned as brothels, although technically illegal.\nProstitution is the only profession in Poland that is not taxed, but sex workers may be asked by authorities to prove that is what they do, since prostitution is not recognized as legitimate work, and therefore receive no social benefits.\n\nProstitution in Romania is not itself criminalized, although associated activities, such as procuring, are criminal offenses, and solicitation is a contravention punishable by fines.\n\nSolicitation is an administrative offence (\"contravenție\") punishable by a fine of 500–1500 lei (approximately 110–330 euros as of 2016). The National Police, Local Police and Gendarmes are all responsible for enforcing the laws, although there are reports that law enforcement is corrupt and that police are often violent. \n\nClients are not prosecuted, unless they knowingly use the services of a victim of forced prostitution, or the prostitute is a minor (Art. 216\"1\").\n\nArticle 213 criminalizes procuring; it states that \"The causing or facilitation of the practice of prostitution or the obtaining of financial benefits from the practice of prostitution by one or more individuals shall be punishable by no less than 2 and no more than 7 years of imprisonment and a ban on the exercise of certain rights.\" In certain aggravated circumstances, the punishment increases. The penal code also criminalizes several offenses against slavery, human trafficking, child trafficking, forced labour, and using exploited persons (Art. 182 \"Exploitation of a person\", Art. 209 \"Slavery\", Art. 210 \"Trafficking in human beings\", Art. 211 \"Trafficking in underage persons\", Art. 212 \"Pressing into forced or compulsory labor\", Art. 216 \"Use of an exploited person’s services\").\n\nProstitution is an administrative, but not criminal, offence in Russia (such as, for example, drinking beer in a public place or walking nude on the street). The maximum punishment is a fine up to 2000 rubles (~$65); however, organising prostitution or engaging somebody into prostitution is punishable by a prison term.\n\nProstitution itself is legal, but operating brothels and other activities related to prostitution are prohibited. Public order offences are used against women who work on the streets.\n\nProstitution is illegal in Ukraine, but is nevertheless widespread and largely ignored by the government. Laws criminalizing organised prostitution and penalties for human trafficking have had little effect because many convicted traffickers often do not end up serving prison time. The economic decline in Ukraine made the nation vulnerable and forced many to depend on prostitution and trafficking as a source of income. Sex tourism rose as the country attracted greater numbers of foreign tourists.\n\nIn Denmark, prostitution was partly decriminalized in 1999, based partly on the premise that it was easier to police a legal trade than an illegal one. Third-party activities, such as profiting from brothel administration and other forms of procuring, remain illegal activities in Denmark, as do pimping and prostitution of minors.\n\nUnder Danish Jurisdiction, the legal status of prostitution remains lawful. However, there is no evidence of organised prostitution within the self-governing territory.\nProstitution in Estonia is legal in itself, but organized prostitution is illegal. Since prostitution is a sensitive indicator that develops with changes in the social environment and the state, it is useful to divide the history of this phenomenon from Estonia's first independence according to the different historical stages of the country.\n\nFirstly, the period of Estonian independence 1918-1940, when the prostitution in Estonia was legalized. Secondly, the period of the Soviet occupation when prostitution was criminalized. Thirdly, since Estonian new independence when prostitution is neither criminalized nor legalized (that is, the selling of and buying of a sexual service is not a crime but prostitution is not considered a profession either).\n\nProstitution itself is legal in Finland (soliciting in a public place is illegal), but organised prostitution, operating a brothel or a prostitution ring, and other forms of pimping) is illegal. In June 2006, parliament voted by 158 to 15 with four abstentions to approve a bill which outlaws the buying of sexual services from prostitutes if it is linked to human trafficking. According to a recent TAMPEP study, 69% of prostitutes are foreigners. As of 2009, there was little \"visible\" prostitution in Finland, as it was mostly limited to private residences and nightclubs in larger metropolitan areas.\n\nPaying for sex is illegal in Iceland (the client commits a crime, but the prostitute does not). The police have stated that they do not have the resources to enforce the law. Consequently, a vigilante group called \"Stóra systir\" (\"Big Sister\") has been formed.\n\nA report published in 2017 by the \"National Commissioner of the Icelandic Police\" states that prostitution had \"exploded\" in the previous 18 months. The vast majority of prostitutes in the country are foreign. Police believe prostitution in Iceland is partially tied to organised crime and human trafficking.\n\nThe country has become a sex tourism destination.\n\nProstitution itself is legal in the Republic of Ireland, however since March 2017, it has been an offence to buy sex. Third party involvement. such as operating brothels, and other forms of pimping) are also illegal. Although the 2017 law criminalising clients was designed to reduce the demand for prostitution, the law has had little effect.\n\nMost prostitution in Ireland occurs indoors and is advertised via the internet. Street prostitution has declined considerably.\n\nProstitution is legal and regulated in Latvia. Prostitutes must register, must undergo monthly health checks, and must carry a health card; if they fail to do so, they can be penalized. Although prostitution is regulated in Latvia, brothels and other forms of procuring are illegal. According to the law, \"Any activity of the third person which promotes prostitution is prohibited\", and, \"Persons are prohibited to join in groups in order to offer and provide sexual services\".\nProstitution in Lithuania is illegal, but it is common. Law enforcement is weak, corrupt and is reputedly connected to organised crime. It is estimated that there are 3,000 prostitutes in the capital Vilnius. Many of them are foreign, predominantly Russian, but there are also significant numbers from Belarus, Ukraine and Poland. Street prostitution, including underage prostitutes, is generally controlled by criminal elements.\n\nPaying for sex is illegal (the client commits a crime, but the prostitute does not). This law prohibiting the buying of sexual services (sexkjøpsloven) came into effect on January 1, 2009, following the passing of new legislation by the Storting in November 2008. Soliciting and advertising \"sexual services\" is also illegal under the Norwegian Criminal Code (\"Straffeloven\") section 378 and section 202(3).\n\nIn 2013, it was estimated there were 3,000 sex workers working in Norway (population 5 million). Earnings from sex trade are estimated at 390 million kroner (£39m, $US63m, €48m).\n\nPaying for sex is illegal (the client commits a crime, but not the prostitute). The Sex Purchase Act (\"Sexköpslagen\"), which makes it illegal to pay for sex, but not to be a prostitute, was adopted in 1999, and was then unique. Since then, similar laws have been passed in Norway and Iceland.\n\nThe rationale underpinning the law was the view that prostitution was a form of violence against women so the crime consists in the customer paying for sex, not in the prostitute selling sexual services. This 'rationale' sees the seller of sex as the exploited partner in the exchange.\n\nIn Great Britain, prostitution itself is legal, but a number of related activities, including soliciting in a public place, kerb crawling, keeping a brothel, pimping, and pandering, are outlawed.\n\nThe Policing and Crime Act 2009 makes it illegal to pay for sex with a prostitute who has been \"subjected to force\", and this is a \"strict liability offence\" (clients can be prosecuted even if they didn't know the prostitute was forced).\n\nIn Northern Ireland, which previously had similar laws to the rest of the United Kingdom, paying for sex became a crime when the Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Criminal Justice and Support for Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 was enacted in January 2015.\n\nProstitution in Guernsey is legal, but related activities such as solicitation and brothel keeping are prohibited. At the end of the 19th century prostitution was common in Guernsey, especially in St Peter Port where around 500 soldiers were garrisoned. A large number of the prostitutes were French.\n\nProstitution is legal in the Isle of Man but related activities such as soliciting, procuring and brothel keeping are prohibited by the Sexual Offences Act 1992.\n\nThere are few prostitutes permanently on the Isle of Man, most visiting the island on short term \"tours\". A man and a woman were arrested on suspicion of committing prostitution offences in Douglas in 2013. A police spokesman said this was \"an unusual and rare incident.\"\n\nProstitution in Jersey is legal, but related activities such as keeping a brothel are outlawed. Following a consultation period from 1 September 2017 and the 13 October 2017, the Home Affairs Minister approved a new draft Sexual Offences (Jersey) Law to be debated in the Assembly of the States of Jersey. The draft law does not criminalise prostitution, but consolidates previous legislation on related activities.\n\nIn 2015 it was estimated there were 35–40 prostitutes in Jersey. Most visit the island for short periods and work from hotels.\n\nProstitution in Albania is illegal but widespread.\n\nPrior to the collapse of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s, prostitution in Albania was virtually unknown. The migration from rural areas to the cities, and economic problems that followed the collapse caused some women to turn to prostitution.\n\nStreet prostitution occurs near the centre of the capital, Tirana, mainly by Roma men and women. Some students work as prostitutes from hotels or motels in Tirana and other big cities. Brothels also found in the cities.\n\nProstitution in Andorra is illegal.\n\nProstitution in Bosnia and Herzegovina is legal, but related activities such as solicitation and keeping a brothel are illegal. The law treats procuring as a major crime. Under the law, trafficking is a state-level crime that carries a sentence of up to 10 years in prison. In 2016, UNAIDS estimated there to be 4,000 prostitutes in the country.\nProstitution in Croatia is illegal, but common. Forcible prostitution, any kind of brothels, or procuring are treated as felony, while voluntary prostitution is considered to be infraction against public order (for prostitutes only; clients are not in violation of law). Like in many other Southeast European countries, the problem of human trafficking for the purposes of sex is big in Croatia. However, according to the U.S. State Department, Croatia is a tier 1 country, actively working to prevent the sex trade.\nThe law does not prohibit prostitution itself, but operating brothels, organizing prostitution rings, living off the profits of prostitution, encouraging prostitution or forcing a person to engage in prostitution are illegal activities.\n\nCyprus has been criticised by the US State Department for failing to control the flow of illegal immigrants and legal to be involved in forced prostitution. Cyprus has gained a reputation for being a major transit point for people smugglers to transport women for the purposes of prostitution. International observers have criticized the government for its lack of action to prevent forced prostitution. The law of Cyprus forbids forced (but not voluntary) prostitution. However, it is believed that many immigrants are hired as bar maids and coerced into prostitution by this method.\n\nThe Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is only recognised as a separate state by Turkey. Prostitution is illegal, however in nightclubs, \"konsomatrices\", who sit with, eat with or entertain customers for money are allowed. Konsomatrices are not allowed to have sex with customers, but this restriction is frequently flouted. Enforcement is generally lax, but in July 2006 the Nicosia District Court ordered the first prostitution-related imprisonment. After pleading no contest to the charges, the manager of Mexico nightclub, Mesut Kilicarslan, was sentenced to 15 days in prison for encouraging and profiting from prostitution. By the year's end three more suspects were sentenced to imprisonment for encouraging and profiting from prostitution.\n\nNorthern Cyprus has become a destination for sex tourism.\n\nProstitution is illegal in Gibraltar, as are related activities. Prior to its abolition in 1992 prostitution was concentrated in the red-light district of Seruya’s Ramp.\nProstitution is legal at the age of 18. Persons engaged in prostitution must register at the local prefecture and carry a medical card that is updated every two weeks. Greek authorities decided to implement a 1999 law which stipulates that all brothels must have permits. It is estimated that fewer than 1,000 women are legally employed as prostitutes and approximately 20,000 women, most of foreign origin, are engaged in illegal prostitution. According to NGO estimates, there are 13,000-14,000 trafficking victims in the country at any given time. Major countries of origin for trafficking victims include Nigeria, Ukraine, Russia, Bulgaria, Moldova and Belarus.\n\nIn Italy, prostitution, defined as the exchange of sexual acts for money, is legal, although organized prostitution, whether indoors in brothels or controlled by third parties, is prohibited. Brothels were banned in 1958. Single sex workers working from apartments are \"tolerated\". Loitering is permitted, but soliciting (\"unabashedly inviting clients on the street\") is illegal. Migrants with work or residence permits may work in sex work, and police cannot revoke residence permits and begin deportation procedures, as they tried failing by the Italian laws.\n\nA 2008 report stated that were some 100,000 prostitutes in Italy.\nIn 2007 it was stated that the total number of workers was 70,000.\nThe Italian Statistics Institute stated the number of street workers in 1998 was 50,000.\n\nA euphemism often used to refer to prostitutes in Italy is \"Lucciole\" (lit. \"fireflies\").\nProstitution in Kosovo is illegal, and can incur a prison sentence of up to sixty days. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria's HIV Program in Kosovo estimated there to be 5,037 prostitutes in the country. Many women turn to prostitution through poverty. There are report that prostitution has become a new organised crime in Kosovo.\n\nPrior to the Kosovo War following the 2008 Kosovo declaration of independence, prostitution was limited to serving the needs of locals. Following the ceasefire and presence in the country of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo and other international organisations, the demand for prostitution soared. As well as women turning to prostitution voluntarily, some were trafficked from Moldova, Bulgaria and the Ukraine.\nProstitution itself is legal, but certain activities connected with it, such as running a brothel and loitering, are not. Certain offences are punishable by sentences of up to two years in prison.\n\nIn March 2008, police and the Ministry for Social Policy signed a memorandum of understanding to formalize a screening process for all arrested persons engaged in prostitution to determine whether they were victims of trafficking or other abuses. The law provides punishments of up to 6 years for involving minors in prostitution.\n\nProstitution in Montenegro is illegal.\n\nMontenegro is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Victims of sex trafficking identified in Montenegro are primarily women and girls from Montenegro, neighbouring Balkan countries, and, to a lesser extent, other countries in Eastern Europe. Sex trafficking victims are exploited in hospitality facilities, bars, restaurants, night clubs, and cafes.\n\nIn Portugal, prostitution itself is legal, but it is illegal for a third party to profit from, promote, encourage or facilitate the prostitution of another. Consequently, organized prostitution (brothels, prostitution rings or other forms of pimping) is prohibited. Forced prostitution and human trafficking are also illegal.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, the number of female prostitutes was estimated at 28,000, of which at least 50% were foreigners.\nProstitution in the Republic of Macedonia is legal, though with various restrictions and common. UNAIDS estimate there are 3588 prostitutes in the country. The Macedonian government is trying to clamp down on prostitution.\n\nSTAR-STAR (Association for support of marginalised workers) is a sex worker led support group. It's Executive Board is exclusively made up of sex workers. STAR-STAR was the first sex workers collective in the Balkans.\n\nThe country is a major transit point for prostitution to the west. The trafficking of women for sex is worth billions in Macedonia and is considered to be run primarily by Albanian gangsters.\n\nProstitution in San Marino is illegal and is not commonplace.\n\nProstitution in Serbia is illegal, and can incur a prison sentence of up to 30 days, and up to 60 days for minors. Pimping is illegal and can incur a prison sentence of between 6 months and 5 years, and between 1 and 10 years for pimping minors. UNAIDS estimate there to be 3,901 prostitutes in the country.\n\nFollowing a large police action against prostitution in Belgrade's major hotels in late September 2017, Minister of Public Administration and Local Self-Government Branko Ružić voiced support for legalizing and regulating prostitution. Serbian Radical Party president Vojislav Šešelj supported the proposal, under the condition that prostitutes undergo regular health checks for sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nProstitution in Slovenia was decriminalised in June 2003. Forcing others into prostitution is an offence under Article 175 of the Criminal Code.\n\nProstitution itself is legal in Spain, but pimping is not. Owning an establishment where prostitution takes place is legal if the owner neither derives financial gain from prostitution nor \"hires\" any person for the purposes of selling sex, because prostitution is not considered a job, and has no legal recognition. Most places do not regulate prostitution, but the government of Catalonia offers licenses for persons \"to gather people to practice prostitution\". \nThese licenses are used by brothel owners to open 'clubs', where prostitution takes place (the women are theoretically only 'gathered' to work on the premises not employed by the owner). Some places have implemented fines for street prostitution.\n\nIn Turkey, prostitution is legal and regulated. Prostitutes must register and acquire an ID card stating the dates of their health checks. Also, it is mandatory for registered prostitutes to have regular health checks for sexually transmitted diseases. The police are allowed to check the authenticity of registered prostitutes to determine whether they have been examined properly and to ensure they see the health authorities if they don't. Men cannot register under this regulation. Most sex workers, however, are unregistered, as local governments have made it policy not to issue new registrations. As a result, most sex workers in Turkey are not registered sex workers, working in violation of the law. Turkey is listed by the UNODC as a top destination for victims of human trafficking.\nProstitution in Vatican City is illegal and is not commonplace.\n\nProstituttion in Austria is legal and regulated under the penal code (\"Strafgesetzbuch\").\nunder \"Zehnter Abschnitt Strafbare Handlungen gegen die sexuelle Integrität und Selbstbestimmung (§§ 201-220b)\" \n(Part Ten: Offences against sexual integrity and self-determination (§ § 201-220b)). Most sex workers are migrants, mainly from the former Eastern Bloc countries.\nAccording to a 2010 TAMPEP study, 78% of sex workers in Austria are foreigners.\n\nAlthough sex work itself is not forbidden, Section 207b\"Sexueller Missbrauch von Jugendlichen\" (Sexual abuse of juveniles) allows for prosecution of clients of workers younger than 18. Additional restrictions are specified in § 214 to 217. Medical examinations are required by the AIDS and STD laws. The laws of the federal States of Austria place further restrictions on the times and places where prostitution may occur. The most restrictive law is that of Vorarlberg, where prostitution is legal only in licensed brothels and to date no such licenses have been issued.\n\nProstitution itself is legal in Belgium, but the law prohibits operating brothels and other forms of pimping or assisting immigration for the purpose of prostitution. However, in practice enforcement can be lax and \"unofficial\" brothels are tolerated (for example in Antwerp). Human trafficking or exploiting individuals for financial gain is punishable for a maximum prison sentence of 30 years. A recent report by RiskMonitor foundation states that 80% of the prostitutes who work as windows prostitutes in Belgium are from Bulgaria. Belgium is listed by the UNODC as a top destination for victims of human trafficking. Many sex workers organisations feel that the present grey area in which prostitution operates leaves sex workers vulnerable to exploitation.\n\nA report commissioned by the National Bank of Belgium, estimated a turnover of 840 million Euro in 2015. The most important segments of the market seem to be escort and private prostitution, rather than the more visible forms of window or street prostitution.\n\nProstitution in France (the exchange of sexual acts for money) was legal until April 2016, but several surrounding activities were illegal, like operating a brothel, living off the avails (pimping), and paying for sex with someone under the age of 18 (the age of consent for sex is 15). On 6 April 2016, the French National Assembly voted to punish customers of prostitutes by a fine of €1500. The law has been evaluated as a failure, putting sex workers in danger, reducing prices, and decreasing condom use among their clients.\n\nIn the Napoleonic era, France became the model for the regulatory approach to prostitution. In the 20th century, however, a policy shift became apparent. Brothels became illegal in 1946, and France signed the Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others in 1960. France thus became a major supporter of the international abolitionist movement for the eradication of prostitution.\n\nProstitution in Germany is legal, as are all aspects of the sex industry, including brothels, advertisement, and job offers through HR companies. Full service sex work is widespread and regulated by the German government, which levies taxes on it. In 2002, the government changed the law in an effort to improve the legal situation of sex workers. However, the social stigmatization of sex work persists and many workers continue to lead a double life. Human rights organizations consider the resulting common exploitation of women from Eastern and Southeastern Europe to be the main problem associated with the profession.\n\nProstitution in Liechtenstein is illegal, but is tolerated by the police as long as it is not street prostitution.\nProstitution itself is legal in Luxembourg, but activities associated with organised prostitution, such as profiting from (operating brothels and prostitution rings) or aiding prostitution, are illegal. Human trafficking incurs severe penalties.\n\nStreet prostitution is only permitted in two streets near Luxembourg City's railway station, and only between 20:00 and 03:00. The area is regulated by the city authorities, and patrolled regularly by the police. Prostitutes working outside these streets or outside the permitted times may be arrested and fined up to €2,500. Because of the number of prostitutes and limited area to work in, some work from other streets near the legalised area and risk being arrested. \n\nProstitution itself is legal in Monaco, but organized prostitution (brothels, prostitution rings and other forms of pimping) is prohibited. Solicitation is also illegal. Forcing another person into prostitution is illegal, with penalties from six months to three years of imprisonment, plus a fine. A husband who forces his wife to engage in prostitution can be sentenced to one to five years of imprisonment plus a fine.\n\nProstitution takes place most commonly in hotels, bars and nightclubs. \n\nProstitution is legal and regulated in the Netherlands. Operating a brothel is also legal. In the last few years, a significant number of brothels and \"windows\" have been closed because of suspected criminal activity. De Wallen, the largest and best-known red-light district in Amsterdam, is a destination for international sex tourism.\n\nProstitution is concentrated in and around the big cities and in the border towns in the regions of Limburg, Groningen, Twente, West Brabant and Zeeland. Prostitution occurs in various forms: 'window' and street prostitution, clubs, escort agencies and home-based prostitution. 'Window' prostitution occurs in 12 cities in the Netherlands. It is estimated that on average some 2,000 prostitutes are engaged daily in this form of prostitution. Street prostitution exists in 10 Dutch cities and involves on average some 320 prostitutes daily. Between 3,500 and 4,000 prostitutes are employed daily in 600–700 clubs and private brothels. The extent of other forms of prostitution such as escort agencies and home-based prostitution is much more difficult to estimate. Home-based prostitution occurs in at least 17 municipalities and escort agencies exist in at least 28 municipalities.\n\nFull service sex work in Switzerland is legal and regulated; it has been legal since 1942. Trafficking, forcing people into prostitution and most forms of pimping are illegal. Licensed brothels, typically with a reception and leading to several studio apartments, are available. One estimate puts the number of street sex workers in Zurich at 5000.\n\nThe majority of sex workers are foreigners from the Americas, Central Europe or the Far East. In recent years the number of full service sex workers has increased. Many workers operate using newspaper advertisements, mobile phones and secondary rented apartments, some accept credit cards.\n\n"}
{"id": "6457932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6457932", "title": "Sebat Bet Gurage language", "text": "Sebat Bet Gurage language\n\nSebat Bet (\"Seven houses\") is an Afroasiatic language spoken in Ethiopia.\n\nOne of the Gurage languages, Sebat Bet is divided into several dialects. The latter are spoken in the western Gurage Zone:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53426349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53426349", "title": "Stereotypes of Nigerians", "text": "Stereotypes of Nigerians\n\nNigerians are one of the most misunderstood people in Africa, by both other Africans and non-Africans. There are some stereotypes typically associated with Nigerians and these are both positive and negative. Apart from the general stereotypes, there are peculiar stereotypes concerning the ethnic groups in Nigeria that even other Nigerians believe and propagate.\n\nIt is generally believed that Nigerians are open-minded and quick to try new things.\n\nNigerians are generally regarded as hard-working people who are willing to go the extra mile for success.\n\nNigerians are regarded as a very proud people. They also feature as one of the happiest people on earth.\n\nThis stereotype is mainly a product of the many Nigerian prince 419 scams which were popular. Many people believe that a large percent of Nigerians are into internet scam and fraud. While it is true that some youths take to it, the stereotype is essentially misplaced as the number of youths partaking in this is minimal. Most internet scammers simply prefer to use Nigeria and Nigerian identities in their schemes.\n\nThis stereotype stems from the general perception that Africans are poor and in need of charity. It is important to note that Nigerians have some of the richest people in the world. Aliko Dangote, a Nigerian, is the richest black man alive. The percentage of poor Nigerians is not as high as this stereotype portrays it.\n\nThis is one of the negative stereotypes about Nigerians. It is generally believed by most non-Nigerians that Nigerians are not well educated and cannot speak English. This is a myth as Nigerians have one of the highest literacy rates in Africa and English is the official language in Nigeria due to its multi-ethnic status.\n"}
{"id": "11270136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11270136", "title": "Tetum alphabet", "text": "Tetum alphabet\n\nThe Tetum alphabet is used to write Tetum. It is based on the Latin alphabet and contains 28 letters:\n\nThe letters \"G\", \"J\", \"LL\", \"Ñ\", \"P\", \"V\", \"X\", and \"Z\" and the digraph \"RR\" only occur in loanwords.\n\n"}
{"id": "52542004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52542004", "title": "Vanitha Datla", "text": "Vanitha Datla\n\nVanitha Datla is the Vice Chairperson of Elico Ltd, a 55-year-old company that is a pioneer in the Analytical Instruments Industry, “ Innovating to connect Science with Lab” and Managing Director Elico Healthcare Services Ltd, a service provider to the Health-care Industry in countries like USA, UK, Middle East etc.\n\nThe past two decades have seen her acquiring experience across diverse sectors such as Financial Services, Insurance Services, Cement, Power, Security Printing, Instrumentation & BPO services, with stints in the USA and India.\n\n\nA bright student all through her academic years, she stood second in her graduating PGDBA class at ICFAI earning a Silver Medal and securing a place on the Dean’s Honor Roll for achieving a perfect 4.0 GPA, while pursuing her undergraduate study at Wichita State University in the USA.\n\n\nA frequent speaker at various professional and academic forums, Vanitha is passionate about women empowerment and contributing positively to women’s issues. Apart from her professional career, she has keen networking skills, which has helped her to be elected in Industry Associations. She has been a member of the CII National Committee on Backward District Development and CII National Committee on Women Empowerment. In addition to serving on the CII HR panel Southern Region, CII CSR panel, AP State, CII Finance & Taxation panel, AP State, Co-Convenor CII Exim panel, AP State, Chairperson CII Women Empowerment Taskforce, AP State. Earlier, she was an active member of the Steering committee on ‘Green Homes’.\n\nShe also served on the Board of the ICFAI Business School Alumni Federation. She was instrumental in laying foundations & strengthening the Industry- Institute interface for the placement cell at the Engineering colleges of BVRIT & SVCEW under the Sri Vishnu Educational Society. She is the Treasurer of WIN (Women in Network), an NGO that works closely with children & women of urban slums, and was part of the founding team.\n\nAn avid fitness person, she has undertaken 100-km and 150-km bicycle rides and runs long distances, conquering a couple of full marathons, many half-marathons and a 50-km ultra walkathon distance. She has participated and completed many endurance and duathlon events and earned herself the tag of a ‘Duathlete’. Trekking is another passion that has led her to visit the Everest Base Camp in Nepal, Mt. Kailash near Manasarovar, Tibet & Mt. Kilimanjaro in Africa.\n\nShe had learnt to play the Veena & Piano at an early age and has also dabbled in classical Carnatic vocals and Vedic chanting. Additionally she also enjoys listening to music, reading, spending time with her family and writing articles about her travel exploits, but traveling remains her true passion and she has traveled around the globe extensively to more than 50 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "11550850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11550850", "title": "Yem people", "text": "Yem people\n\nThe Yem are an ethnic group living in south-western Ethiopia. They are also called by their neighbors as the Janjero, but the Yem consider this exonym derogatory, since it sounds similar to the Amharic word \"ጃን ጆሮ\" which means \"spy of the king\". Their native language is Yemsa, one of the Omotic languages, although many also speak Oromiffa or Amharic. The neighbors for Yem include the Gurage, Hadya and Kembata to the east across the Omo River and the Jimma Oromo to the south, north and west.\n\nThe first reference to Yem as a political unit is found, under the name of Jangero, in the victory song of King Yesaq (1412-1427) of the Christian kingdom of Ethiopia, as paying tribute in the form of horses to the king. The first European traveler to mention Yem was the European traveler Father Fernandez, who travelled through their homeland in 1614.\n\nTheir number was not definitely known until recently, as Aklilu Yilma states, \"Bender gives the estimate as '1000' (Bender 1976: 4), whereas the \"Ethnologue\" reports the figure of '1000-4000' speakers of Yemsa (Grimes 1992:257). The report of the Central Statistical Office gives the 1984 census figures of the Yem people as 34,951 (Central Statistical Office 1991:61), but this census seems to comprise only the Fofa area.\" The 1994 national census reported 60,811 people identified themselves as Yem in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region (SNNPR), of whom 59,581 lived in the around Fofa, and 52,292 speakers of the Yemsa language in the SNNPR, of whom 51,264 were living in the same area. The more recent 2007 national census reports that 160,447 were identified as Yem, of whom 84,607 lived in the Oromia Region and 74,906 in the SNNPR.\n\n"}
