{"id": "3037118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3037118", "title": "916 America", "text": "916 America\n\n916 America is a minor planet orbiting the Sun in the main belt between Mars and Jupiter.\n\nIt was discovered on 7 August 1915 by the Russian astronomer Grigory Nikolaevich Neujmin at Simeis, Russian Empire. Originally designated 916I, it was renamed '916 America' on 24 February 1923 after the Council of Astronomers at Pulkovo Observatory decided to commemorate \"the friendly relations of the astronomical observatories and astronomers\". Another possible reason for the name was as a mark of appreciation for the help given during the 1921 Russian famine by the American Relief Administration under the later President Herbert Hoover.\n\nIn 1986, assuming that the asteroid was of S-type and that it had a diameter of 15 km, the rotational period was measured to be 38 hours. Observations by the Infrared Astronomical Satellite have since shown that it has a diameter of 33.2±1.3 km, with an absolute magnitude of 11.20 and an albedo of 0.053±0.004.\n\n"}
{"id": "534206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=534206", "title": "Airai", "text": "Airai\n\nAirai, located on the southern coast of Babeldaob island, is the second-most populous state of Palau. It contains the country's chief airport, Roman Tmetuchl International Airport, and is connected by the Koror-Babeldaob Bridge to nearby Koror Island.\n\nThe state has an area of 44 km² (17 mi²), and a total population of 2700 , the second largest in the country. Airai is also the name of the biggest town in the state, with a population of 920 people . The town of Airai is the largest town in Palau outside of the state of Koror.\n\nAirai is most notable for its \"bai\" (men's meeting house), the oldest one in existence, dating back 200 years. The turbulent rains of Palau did not treat ancient Palauan architecture kindly. Airai is more inland/mountainous-jungle and therefore more of a bedroom community of Koror.\n\nThe Ministry of Education operates public schools.\n\nAirai Elementary School opened circa September 1945. It initially used the former Japanese Communications building.\n\nPalau High School in Koror is the country's only public high school, so children from this community go there.\n\n"}
{"id": "57357454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57357454", "title": "Atlas der Neederlanden", "text": "Atlas der Neederlanden\n\nThe Atlas der Neederlanden, or \"Atlas of the Netherlands\", is a composite atlas which was presumably collected and composed by the publishing company Covens and Mortier in Amsterdam. The maps are gathered in nine volumes and show how the Low Countries, including Belgium and the former colonies of the Netherlands, have developed over the course of about two decades. The atlas contains more than 600 printed and manuscript maps and is preserved by the Special Collections of the University of Amsterdam.\n\nThe \"Atlas der Neederlanden\" is an \"atlas factice\", also known as \"composite atlas\". These atlases were composed by wealthy people who collected maps concerning a specific region or topic. In some cases rich buyers contracted the publisher to collect the maps for them. These maps were then bound together in one or more volumes by a book binder in the typical “atlas-binding”. Each composite atlas contains a different collection of maps and is therefore unique in its composition. There are different composite atlases preserved, for example the \"Atlas Blaeu-Van der Hem\" in the Austrian National Library in Vienna and the \"Atlas Van der Hagen\", which was made earlier than the \"Atlas der Neederlanden\", around 1690, and has been in the possession of the National Library of the Netherlands since 1887.\n\nWho the collector of the \"Atlas der Neederlanden\" was or for whom it was made remains unclear. At some point in the 19th century the book found its way to the University of Amsterdam where it is now part of the Special Collections of its University Library. It is assumed that the atlas was composed by Covens and Mortier. The publisher is mentioned at the frontispieces of eight of the nine volumes with the following text: \"Table des cartes etc: de I. Cóvens et C. Mortier contenues dans ce volume\". Also, most of the maps in the atlas were published by Covens and Mortier.\n\nWhen the last volume of the atlas was finished around 1816, the publishing house was led by Cornelis Covens (1764-1825). He worked for his family’s firm from 1790 until 1825, bringing it innovation and success. Covens and Mortier published many new maps but also kept the old stock, which ensured that the firm had a large fund of maps. Within the field of commercial and government cartography Covens and Mortier became the leading publishing company at the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nAround 1816 the last volume of the atlas was finished. The largest part of the map collection dates from the 18th century. A few maps originate from the 17th century, like the Leo Belgicus dating from 1611 and a map of the Netherlands created by Frederik de Wit in 1670. Most of the 18th century maps are collected in volumes 1-8. Volume 9 contains maps from the 17th century and a few maps dating from the beginning of the 19th century. This volume doesn’t have a frontispiece of the publisher. The most recent maps in the atlas are to be found in volume 9 and date from 1816. \n\nThe \"Atlas der Neederlanden\" contains maps of large sizes. Most atlases from the 17th and 18th century don’t have large maps because these didn’t fit in the bound volumes. The \"Atlas der Neederlanden\" forms an exception. The large-scale maps were folded to fit in the atlas and several wall maps of 4, 12 and 25 sheets were bound separately. The multi-sheet wall maps were popular decorations and therefore rarely preserved well. Because the separate sheets were bound and kept in the atlas, they remained in good condition with their lively colours still preserved.\n\nThe atlas has nine volumes. Each volume is about a different part of the Netherlands:\n\nIn 2011 the atlas was restored and digitized. A facsimile edition has been made of the nine volumes. This facsimile was presented at the celebration of the 200 year commemoration of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in 2013. The facsimile was published together with the book \"De Atlas der Neederlanden: Kaarten van de Republiek en het prille Koninkrijk met 'Belgiën' en 'Coloniën’\".\n\nThe Special Collections of the University of Amsterdam has made all the scans of the \"Atlas der Neederlanden\" available on Wikimedia Commons.\n\n"}
{"id": "29516819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29516819", "title": "Bar (tropical cyclone)", "text": "Bar (tropical cyclone)\n\nThe bar of a mature tropical cyclone is a very dark gray-black layer of cloud appearing near the horizon as seen from an observer preceding the approach of the storm, and is composed of dense stratocumulus clouds. Cumulus and cumulonimbus clouds bearing precipitation follow immediately after the passage of the wall-like bar. Altostratus, cirrostratus and cirrus clouds are usually visible in ascending order above the top of the bar, while the wind direction for an observer facing toward the bar is typically from the left and slightly behind the observer.\n\nThe dark layer of clouds on the horizon seen prior to a tropical cyclone's passage over a location was first described in 1687 and the observed phenomenon later published in 1697 by William Dampier while observing a typhoon in the South China Sea during a circumnavigation by pirate ship. These observations led to an improved understanding of the nature of tropical cyclones. The use of \"bar\" as a term to describe this cloud layer first appeared in the 19th century.\n\nWhen the bar of the storm approaches an observer, it appears stationary in azimuthal position, whereas a storm moving toward the observer at an angle or perpendicular to the observer will appear to drift along the horizon. A reddish tint sometimes appears toward the top of the bar, while the darkness often varies depending on the storm's intensity. Tints of indigo, green, yellow or violet may also be present depending on the time of day due to the prismatic effect of water droplets in the cloud. Cumulus clouds first appear at the outflow boundary of the lower part of the bar. As the bar passes overhead, barometric pressure at the observer's location falls steadily. The first rainband arrives, the clouds moving from left to right roughly along isobar lines, but this is often followed by short periods of relative calm. During the onset of the bar's arrival, winds continuously increase in intensity leading toward the eyewall. Navigators of ships at sea often use the first appearance of a bar to steer clear of the approaching tropical cyclone.\n\nCloser to the center of tropical cyclone, the eyewall also exhibits the appearance of a bar, and high lightning activity occurs within this central bar. After the bar passes through, the strongest winds and often the heaviest precipitation abruptly changes to calmer conditions within the eye, before the eyewall passes over again and the strongest winds arrive from the opposite direction.\n\nAt sea, wind speeds typically reach level 8 on the Beaufort scale while waves become drastically higher when the bar reaches overhead and squall lines begin to arrive.\n"}
{"id": "543512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543512", "title": "Bačka", "text": "Bačka\n\nBačka ( / \"Bačka\", ; , ) is a geographical and historical area within the Pannonian Plain bordered by the river Danube to the west and south, and by the river Tisza to the east. It is divided between Serbia and Hungary. Most of the area is located within the Vojvodina region in Serbia and Novi Sad, the capital of Vojvodina, lies on the border between Bačka and Syrmia. The smaller northern part of the geographical area is located within Bács-Kiskun County, in Hungary.\n\nThe name of the region in Serbian is \"Bačka\" or Бачка and in Hungarian is \"Bácska\". In other languages of the region, the name is similar: \"Bačka\" in Croatian and Bunjevac, \"Báčka\" in Slovak, Бачка \"(Bačka)\" in Rusyn, and \"Batschka\" in German.\n\nAccording to Serbian historians, Bačka is a typical Slavic name form, created from \"Bač\" (name of historical town in Bačka) and suffix \"ka\" (which designates \"the land that belongs to Bač\"). There are many other similar name forms used in Serbian and other Slavic languages, for example Šajkaška, Srpska, Hrvatska (Croatia), Timočka Krajina, Bugarska (Bulgaria), Polska (Poland), etc.\n\nThe name of \"Bač\" (Bács) town itself is of uncertain origin and its existence was recorded among Vlachs, Slavs and Hungarians in the Middle Ages. The origin of the name could be Paleo-Balkanic, Romanian, Slavic, or Old Turkic.\n\nAccording to Hungarian historians, the denominator of the landscape may have been the first bailiff of Bač (Bács) castle, and the name one which can be rendered probable it Old Turkic \"baya\" derives from a dignity name.\n\nIn the 17th and 18th century, due to the large number of Serbs who lived in Bačka, this region was called »Raczorszag« (Hungarian name, which means \"the Serb country\" in English). Sometimes, the Hungarians used name Délvidék (\"the southern or lower country\") for a wider imprecisely defined geographical area, which, according to 19th century view also included Bačka. However, according to other Hungarian sources, Bačka was rather seen as part of Alföld.\n\nThrough history, Bačka has been a part of Dacia, the Kingdom of the Iazyges, the Hun Empire, the Gepid Kingdom, the Avar Khanate, the First Bulgarian Empire, the Great Moravia, the Kingdom of Hungary, the Serb realm of Jovan Nenad, the Ottoman Empire, the Habsburg Monarchy, the Austrian Empire, Austria-Hungary, the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia and Montenegro, and since 2006, it has been part of an independent Republic of Serbia. The smaller northern part of the region was part of the short-lived Serb-Hungarian Baranya-Baja Republic (in 1921) and part of independent Hungary since 1921.\n\nPeople have inhabited the region of Bačka since Neolithic times. Indo-European peoples settled in this region in three migration waves dated in 4200 BC, 3300 BC, and 2800 BC respectively. The earliest historical inhabitants of the region were probably Illyrian tribes. Later, other Indo-European peoples, including Dacians, Celts, Sarmatians (Iazyges) and Gepids were recorded as inhabitants of Bačka.\n\nSlavs, the ancestors of contemporary Serbs, settled today's Bačka in the 6th and 7th centuries, before part of them subsequently migrated to the Balkans. In the 9th century the territory of Bačka was part of Bulgarian Empire. Salan, a Bulgarian voivod (duke), was a ruler in this territory and his capital city was Titel. In the early 10th century, Hungarians defeated Salan, and his duchy came under Hungarian rule.\nIn the 11th century, during the administration of the medieval Kingdom of Hungary, Bacsensis (Bács, Bač) County was formed, with city of Bache (Bács, Bač) as its administrative centre. According to Serbian sources, Ilija Vid, the first known prefect of Bacsensis County was recorded in 1068 and he was an ethnic Serb. In this time, the region was populated by both, Slavs and Hungarians. Serbian historian Dr. Milenko Palić also mentions that prefect Vid was an ethnic Serb and that he, together with two other ethnic Serbs whose names were Ilija and Radovan, participated in dynastic struggles in the Kingdom of Hungary, in the end of the 11th century. According to Hungarian authors, prefect Vid belonged to the Gutkeled genus, but there is a possibility that he was a fictitious person.\n\nAfter the Kingdom of Hungary was defeated by the Ottoman Empire (in 1526), Bačka became (from 1526-27) the central region of an independent Serbian state, which existed in the territory of present-day Vojvodina. The ruler of this state was Emperor Jovan Nenad and his capital city was Subotica. After Jovan Nenad was killed, his state collapsed and Bačka, for a short time, came again under Hungarian administration. Soon, the region became part of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nDuring the Ottoman rule (in the 16th-17th centuries), Bačka was part of the Sanjak of Segedin (Szeged), and the region was mainly populated with Serbs (who were in an absolute majority) and Muslims. In 1699, the Bačka became a possession of the Habsburg Monarchy. A Bacsensis County was established in the western parts of the region, while some other (mostly eastern) parts of the Bačka were incorporated into the Tisa-Mureş section of Habsburg Military Frontier. After this part of the Military Frontier was abolished in 1751, these parts of Bačka were also included into Bacsensis county. The only part of Bačka which remained within the Military Frontier was Šajkaška, but it also came under civil administration in 1873.\n\nAccording to the Austrian censuses from 1715–20, Serbs, Bunjevci, and Šokci comprised most of the region's population (97.6% of population according to 1715-1720 census data). There were only 530 or 1.9% Hungarians and 0.5% Germans. During the 18th century, the Habsburgs carried out an intensive colonisation of the area, which had low population density after the last Ottoman Wars, as much of the Serbian population had been decimated through warfare. Muslim population had almost entirely left or was expelled from the region and some of the Muslim refugees from this area settled in Ottoman Bosnia. The new settlers in Bačka were primarily Serbs who moved from Ottoman Balkans, Hungarians, and Germans. Because many of the Germans came from Swabia, they were known as \"Donauschwaben\", or Danube Swabians. Some Germans also came from Austria, and some from Bavaria and Alsace. Lutheran Slovaks, Rusyns, and others were also colonized but to a much smaller extent.\n\nThere was also an emigration of Serbs from the eastern parts of the region, which belonged to Military Frontier until 1751. After the abolition of the Tisa-Mureş section of Military Frontier, many Serbs emigrated from north-eastern parts of Bačka. They moved either to Russia (notably to New Serbia and Slavo-Serbia) or to Banat, where the Military Frontier was still needed.\n\nIn 1848 and 1849, Bačka was part of the Serbian Voivodship, a Serbian autonomous region within Austrian Empire, while between 1849 and 1860 it was part of the Voivodship of Serbia and Tamiš Banat, a separate Austrian crown land (the official languages of the voivodship were German and Illyrian, i.e. Serbo-Croatian), the successor of the Serbian Voivodship. After 1860, when Voivodship of Serbia and Tamiš Banat was abolished, the Bács-Bodrog County was again formed in the territory of Bačka. The county was part of the Kingdom of Hungary, which became one of two autonomous parts of Austria-Hungary in 1867. \nAccording to the 1910 census, the population of Bačka numbered 704,563 people and was composed of: 43.2% speakers of Hungarian (310,490), 28.1% speakers of South Slavic (Serbo-Croatian) language and 22.5% speakers of German. Linguistic composition of the region is partially different from ethnic composition since some ethnic Jews and bilingual South Slavs were in this census recorded as speakers of Hungarian language.\n\nIn early September 1914, several years before the end of the Habsburg Empire, in a town in the West Vojvodina Bačka region known as Zombor or Sombor of some 30,000 people, including 12,000 Serb-speakers, popular demonstrations demanded the removal of all shop signs in the Cyrillic alphabet. When an angry mob chased one Serb-speaking shopkeeper to his home for refusing to remove his Cyrillic sign, he responded by shooting at the demonstrators. The local military commander demanded the shopkeeper's immediate extradition, court martialed him and executed him on the spot. The court martial also designated twelve more affluent hostages from among the Serb-speaking population who would be \"arrested and immediately executed by the military authorities\" in the case of any obstruction or opposition shown by the local [Serb-speaking] population to the military authorities.\" This would presage the Serb genocide committed in the Independent State of Croatia during most of the Second World War.\n\nAt the end of October 1918, Austria-Hungary gradually dissolved and, with the Armistice of Villa Giusti of 3 November, officially capitulated to the Triple Entente. Following this capitulation, Slavs from Banat, Bačka and Baranja organized a new civil administration in these regions as well as their own military units known as People's Guard (Serbian: \"Narodna straža\"). The new civil administration was composed of local People's Boards (Serbian: \"Narodni odbori\"), which were subordinated to Serb People's Board (Serbian: \"Srpski narodni odbor\") in Novi Sad. Military units of Serb People's Board also possessed aircraft from the Novi Sad Airport. After elections, which were organized between 18 and 24 November, Great People's Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevci and other Slavs of Banat, Bačka and Baranja (held on 25 November 1918) proclaimed unification of these regions with the Kingdom of Serbia. New administrative bodies of Banat, Bačka and Baranja (government and parliament) were also formed. Although, government in Belgrade accepted decision of unification with Serbia, it never recognized new provincial government. The provincial administration, however, was active until 12 March 1919, when it held its last session.\n\nOn 1 December 1918, the Kingdom of Serbia united with the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs to form new country named the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes. Sovereignty of new kingdom was internationally recognized by the Treaty of Saint Germain in 1919. The Treaty of Trianon of 4 June 1920 defined the exact borders between the newly independent Hungary and the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (which was later renamed the Kingdom of Yugoslavia) and original territory of Bačka was divided between these two countries. The northern part of the region was a separate county of Hungary (Bács-Bodrog) with seat in Baja, which was later incorporated into Bács-Kiskun county. The southern part of the region was within the District of Novi Sad of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes between 1918 and 1922, then was divided between Bačka Oblast and Belgrade Oblast, provinces \"(oblasts)\" of the kingdom, between 1922 and 1929. In 1929, it was incorporated into Danube Banovina, which was a province of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\n\nBetween 1820 and 1910, Hungarian speaking population in Bačka increased from 121,688 (31.5%) to 363,518 (44.75%). In the same time, percentage of South Slavs decreased from 44% in 1820 to 27% in 1910. 1921 census showed about 40,000 Hungarian speakers less than in census of 1910. This was especially case in Subotica where 1910 census recorded 55.587 speakers of Hungarian and 33,247 speakers of Bunjevac, while census of 1921 recorded 60,700 speakers of Serbo-Croatian and 26,750 speakers of Hungarian. This is explained by the fact that ethnic Bunjevci from Subotica who had knowledge of Hungarian language were listed as speakers of Hungarian by 1910 census. Between 1921 and 1931 census, number of Hungarian speakers in Bačka increased from 260,998 to 268,711. Slavic population increased by 91,800 inhabitants.\n\nIn 1941, Yugoslav Bačka was occupied by the Axis powers and attached to Horthy's Hungary (but was still internationally recognized as part of Yugoslavia). Before this occupation, according to 1931 census, Yugoslav Bačka had 784,896 inhabitants, of whom there were 284,865 Yugoslavs (Serbs, Croats, Bunjevci, Šokci), 268,711 Hungarians and 169,858 Germans. Hungarian occupation authorities expelled several thousands of Serbs from the region and settled ethnic Hungarians from other parts of Central Europe in their place, so that the Hungarian census of 1941 recorded different a demographic composition in the region. According to this census, the territory of Bačka had 789,705 inhabitants, of which 45.4% or 47.2% were speakers of Hungarian language (not all of them native, however). During the occupation, Hungarian troops killed about 20,000 Serbs, Jews and Roma.\n\nThe occupation ended in 1944 and Yugoslav Bačka became part of the new Democratic Federal Yugoslavia (later the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia). Following the defeat of the Axis troops, most of the German population that lived in the area left the region together with German army. The smaller part of the German population (several thousands of people) that did not leave the area (mostly women, children and the elderly) were sent to prison camps, where many of them died of malnutrition and disease. After the war, members of the Yugoslav Partisan army also killed several tens of thousands of inhabitants of German, Hungarian and Serb ethnic origin (in whole of Vojvodina). Estimates about numbers of victims of the Partisans (in whole of Vojvodina) are between 17,000 and 56,000 killed Germans, between 4,000 and 40,000 Hungarians killed, and about 23,000-24,000 Serbs killed.\n\nTogether with eastern Syrmia, western Banat, and northern Mačva, Yugoslav Bačka has been part of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina since 1945. After 1992, Yugoslav Bačka was part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (renamed Serbia and Montenegro in 2003), and since 2006 it has been part of the independent Republic of Serbia.\n\nBačka is a flat, fertile agricultural area within the larger Pannonian Plain, which was once the ancient Pannonian Sea. In Hungary, it is seen as a southern extension of the Great Alfold (itself part of the Pannonian Plain), while this designation is not used in Serbia where region is simply seen as a part of the Pannonian Plain. It lies between the River Danube to the west and south, and by the River Tisa (Tisza) to the east of which confluence is located near Titel in the South Bačka District of Serbia. The region is crisscrossed by parts of the Danube–Tisa–Danube Canal system which serves a variety of economic purposes. Almost all of Bačka is divided between Serbia and Hungary. However, there are small uninhabited pockets of the area on the left bank of the Danube which are \"de jure\" parts of Croatia according to the Badinter Commission; the disputed areas have been under \"de facto\" Serbian control since 1991.\n\nMost of the territory and a vast majority of the population of Bačka is part of Serbia's Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. This area within Serbia is officially divided into the districts of Southern Bačka, Western Bačka, and Northern Bačka. Novi Sad, the capital of Vojvodina, lies on the border between Bačka and Syrmia, on both banks of the river Danube. In some sources, Serbian part of Bačka is referred to as \"Central and Southern Bačka\" ( / Srednja i južna Bačka; ) or simply \"Southern Bačka\" ( / \"\"Južna Bačka; Dél-Bácska\"). The smaller part of the region in Hungary's Bács-Kiskun County is, by the same sources, described as \"Northern Bačka\" (; / \"Severna Bačka\").\n\nThe districts of Serbia in Bačka are:\n\nNote that municipalities of Sremski Karlovci, Petrovaradin, and Beočin and southern part of municipality of Bačka Palanka that belong to South Bačka District are geographically not located in Bačka, but in Syrmia, while municipalities of Ada, Senta and Kanjiža which are geographically located in Bačka are part of North Banat District.\n\nGeographic or traditional subregions or regions overlapping with Serbian Bačka include Gornji Breg, Podunavlje, Potisje, Šajkaška, Telečka and Paorija.\n\nCities, towns and villages in the Serbian part of Bačka with more than 10,000 inhabitants (with population numbers from 2011 census):\n\nTowns and villages in the Serbian part of Bačka with population between 5,000 and 10,000 inhabitants (with population numbers from 2011 census):\n\nNote: Senta, Kanjiža, Ada, Mol and Horgoš are geographically located in Bačka, but they are part of the North Banat District.\n\nAlso see: List of inhabited places of Vojvodina\n\nThe Hungarian Bácska is mostly located in the Bács-Kiskun county of Hungary, while one small part of the region is located in the Baranya county.\n\nSubregions in the Hungarian Bácska include (with population numbers):\n\nNote that parts of Hungarian Bácska also belong to the subregions of Kiskunhalasi and Mohácsi, although the main parts of those subregions are not located in Bácska.\n\nMost important towns in Hungarian Bácska (with population numbers):\n\nAccording to the 2002 Serbian census, the population of the Serbian part of Bačka (in geographical borders) numbers 1,022,524 people and is composed of:\n\nAccording to the 2001 census in Hungary, the rough population of the Hungarian Bácska (including districts of Bajai, Bácsalmási, and Jánoshalmai) numbering 113,432 people. Note that administrative borders of the districts do not fully correspond with the geographical borders of Hungarian Bácska. Most of the inhabitants of Hungarian Bácska are ethnic Hungarians. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14231650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14231650", "title": "Beira Lake", "text": "Beira Lake\n\nBeira Lake (/bˈɐjɾɐ/; Sinhalese: බේරේ වැව, \"Bērē væva\"; Tami: பேரே ஏரி, \"Pērē ēri\") is a lake in the center of the city of Colombo in Sri Lanka. The lake is surrounded by many large businesses in the city. It initially occupied approximately of land 100 years ago and this has since been reduced to today due to various reasons. During the colonial era of the Portuguese, Dutch and the English the lake was used for a wide variety of purposes. It still retains its Portuguese name. It is connected to many intricate canals which provided an easy way of transporting goods within the city and suburban cities.\n\nThe derivation of the name is uncertain, yet it was as recent as 1927 that ‘Beira Lake’ first appeared on maps. Before that, it was called the '\"Colombo Lake\"' or just '\"The Lake\"'. One idea is that it got its name from a Portuguese Engineer called '\"Beira\"' who worked in constructing the lake or from a Dutch Engineer called \"'De Beer\"'. The idea of \"De Beer\" is supported by a granite plaque which was recovered from the sluice of the lake, inscribed \"De Beer 1700\".\n\nOther idea is that it got named from the word '\"Beira\"', which in Portuguese meant the '\"Bank\" or \"Edge of the Lake\"'. Another idea is that it got from '\"De Beer\"', which in Portuguese meant the \"'Anchoring Poin\"t'.\n\nThe lake was built by the Portuguese to provide protection to Colombo from enemies, mainly local kings.\n\nBy 1518 Portuguese ruled over Colombo, but the increasing threats against Portuguese rule by King Vijayabahu VII and Sinhalese forces made them to look for better solutions other than their modern weaponry. One of such begun ideas was making of a huge moat around the fort.\n\nThe construction of the moat started by digging the marshy land which was around the fort in all direction other than west (west of fort was Indian Ocean). But these works were demotivated by the size of it and the small amount of water in the marsh which was not enough to fill a lake. But a stream which flowed between Mount of Dematagoda and Mount of St. Bastian was discovered in this situation by Portuguese Captain Lopo de Brito, while he was chasing away another invasion lead by King Vijayabahu VII. After informing the officials at the fort about this stream, it was connected to the moat they have dug, creating Beira Lake.\n\nThen the lake has been completely connected with the sea from both sides, separating the Colombo Fort from mainland. All means of transportation between mainland and the fort have been done using boats. Original are of the lake has been . Primary outflows then have been the Kayman Gates to the east and St. John's Canal to west. It has been bordered from Mount of St. Bastian, Mount of Wolfendal and from Mount of Kochchikade. To the north and west of the lake have been the Portuguese forts. The nature of the lake then has been described in \"Conquista Temporale Espiritual de Ceylão\" (1687) by \"Fr. Fernão de Queyroz\":\"The lake around the City of Colombo is having a complete length of 10 ½ miles. It which had the Mount of Lawrence was surrounded by a lagoon. In some places at summer time it was deep only to the waist, and was a lake which gave access to City of Colombo\"In 1578, Mayadunne of the Kingdom of Sitawaka attempted to cut off supplies to the invaders but failed to drain the lake. His son Rajasingha I (a.k.a. Sithawaka Rajasinghe) succeeded in 1587 to drain the crocodile infested lake by cutting off several canals but failed to defeat the Portuguese as they brought reinforcements from India through sea.\n\nAfter the Dutch laid siege and captured the lake it was expanded by reducing the fort by 1/3 of the previous and created several islands such as the Slave Island some of them were large enough to have a village and a plantation of 600 coconut trees. After the British took control they removed the crocodiles and developed the area surrounding the lake for recreational activities such as rowing and yachting. The area around the lake was popular for parties including a grand ball that was held to celebrate the news of British victory in Waterloo. Ceylon's first botanical garden the Kew Gardens was opened in Slave Island in 1810 to cultivate seedlings provided by the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew in London to be planted in Peradeniya Botanical Gardens.\n\nBy the 19th century land reclamation for development began and the land area of the lake was reduced, pollution also began to increase.\n\nFour main basins can be identified in the lake:\n\nThe only canal the lake connected to is St. Bastian Canal from its northeast end. From the northwest, it outflows to the Indian Ocean via Mc. Callum Gates and via a semicircular spillway to the west (commonly known as \"බේරේ බේසම\" \"Bērē bēsama =\"Beira Basin).\n\nLined with many large warehouses, reminiscent of its past when tea used to be transported to the port of Colombo on barges via the port access canal, the lake now is very quiet with many of the warehouses been abandoned.\n\nWith maximum length of 1 mile, the lake has been home to Colombo Rowing Club for over 140 years.\n\nThe Sri Lanka Exhibition and Convention Centre is located on the waterfront, further the People's Bank and the Inland Revenue Department headquarters are located in close to the lake.St. Joseph’s college Colombo, the only school in Sri Lanka to have its very own Rowing pier is situated on the banks of the Beira lake. The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Limited is housed in the nearby \"Lake House\" building.\n\nThe lake with many government owned properties has been earmarked for development including a casino district on its McCullum road water front.\n\nThe lake is home to species of storks, pelicans, monitor lizards and various species of fish.\n\nThe lake gets its famous green color and unusually bad odour due to the result of pollution over hundreds of years and algae that is present in the water. The bad smell is mostly prominent during dry weather, due to the high rates evaporation and it fades off with the arrival of the rainy season.\n\nWater of Beira Lake is polluted, from which it gets a bad odour and green colour. But contray to the canal system of Colombo, the lake contains water with a very alkaline pH value got by primary production and continuous bloom. In August it gets its maximum value, but becomes more neutral from top to bottom, pH value decreasing from 10 to 8. Lake water never gets acidic pH.\n\nConductivity of the water retains fairly stable between 250 µS/cm and 300 µS/cm, with a slight increase from May to August.\n\nFull temperature ranges between 29.3 and 35.4 °C. Average temperature is 31 °C and August is the warmest month. The temperature decreases rapidly 2 or 3 °C, from the surface to 60‐100 cm in‐depth and remains stable after that.\n\nDissolved Oxygen generally follows the same trend than temperature in August. Likewise the thermocline, an oxycline appears exclusively in August. Below 1 meter depth, DO is stable at 7 mg/l during May, June and July. Though it is decreased during August from 13 mg/l to 6 mg/l, shallow depth allows preserving a sufficient level of oxygen. But it would be more stressful during dry season.\n\nSalinity is very stable (around 0.12 g/l) over time and along the water column.\n\nThe Beira Lake plays a major role in the Western Region Megapolis Project. Under the project the Beira lake is expected to be cleaned and developed with Singaporean assistance and private sector involvement. Waterways will be cleared by blocking illegal water outlets and sewerage lines into the lake and relocating settlements that dump waste to the lake in the area to social housing units. Under the Megapolis plan after the restoration a Shopping district ,an Enternainment district and a promenade will be created in the area around the Beira lake alongside many hotels and mixed development projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "57682139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57682139", "title": "Biblical Porn", "text": "Biblical Porn\n\nBiblical Porn: Affect, Labor, and Pastor Mark Driscoll's Evangelical Empire is a 2018 book by Jessica Johnson about the culture of Mars Hill Church under the leadership of Mark Driscoll. Johnson is an anthropologist at the University of Washington in Seattle. The book uses research techniques including interviews with church leaders and members during the existence of the church. \"Publishers Weekly\" said it provided \"seething critiques\" of the male-focused, \"muscular Christianity\" espoused by the church but was \"more an ethnography than a exposé of a megachurch's downfall\".\nForeword Reviews said it displayed \"deep insight and an absence of judgment\". A local Seattle review described it as a reminder of \"toxic Christian masculinity\" during a largely forgotten episode that is \"almost impossible now to describe ... to someone who is new to Seattle\". The author herself described the Seattle area as \"definitely not immune to any of this\" despite Seattle's \"image\" as progressive and irreligious.\n\n"}
{"id": "191827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191827", "title": "Bioregionalism", "text": "Bioregionalism\n\nBioregionalism is a political, cultural, and ecological system or set of views based on naturally defined areas called bioregions, similar to ecoregions. Bioregions are defined through physical and environmental features, including watershed boundaries and soil and terrain characteristics. Bioregionalism stresses that the determination of a bioregion is also a cultural phenomenon, and emphasizes local populations, knowledge, and solutions.\n\nBioregionalism asserts \"that a bioregion’s environmental components (geography, climate, plant life, animal life, etc.) directly influence ways for human communities to act and interact with each other which are, in turn, optimal for those communities to thrive in their environment. As such, those ways to thrive in their totality—be they economic, cultural, spiritual, or political—will be distinctive in some capacity as being a product of their bioregional environment.\"\n\nBioregionalism is a concept that goes beyond national boundaries—an example is the concept of Cascadia, a region that is sometimes considered to consist of most of Oregon and Washington, the Alaska Panhandle, the far north of California and the West Coast of Canada, sometimes also including some or all of Idaho and western Montana. Another example of a bioregion, which does not cross national boundaries, but does overlap state lines, is the Ozarks, a bioregion also referred to as the Ozarks Plateau, which consists of southern Missouri, northwest Arkansas, the northeast corner of Oklahoma, southeast corner of Kansas.\n\nBiogregions are not synonymous with ecoregions as defined by bodies such as the World Wildlife Fund or the Commission for Environmental Cooperation; the later are scientifically based and focused on wildlife and vegetation. Bioregions, by contrast are human regions, informed by nature but with a social and political element. In this way bioregionalism is simply political localism with an ecological foundation.\n\nThe term was coined by Allen Van Newkirk, founder of the Institute for Bioregional Research, in 1975, given currency by Peter Berg and Raymond Dasmann in the early 1970s, and has been advocated by writers such as David Haenke and Kirkpatrick Sale.\n\nThe bioregionalist perspective opposes a homogeneous economy and consumer culture with its lack of stewardship towards the environment. This perspective seeks to:\n\nBioregional mapping is a powerful tool to increase understanding, change the story and influence policy. A good bioregional map shows layers of geology, flora, fauna, and inhabitation over time. All the interdisciplinary content that is integrated in this kind of map makes it a great communication tool to illustrate an ecological approach. One of the best examples of a richly communicative bioregional map is David McClosky's new map of Cascadia.\n\nBioregionalism, while akin to environmentalism in certain aspects, such as a desire to live in harmony with nature, differs in certain ways from classical, 20th century environmentalism.\n\nAccording to Peter Berg, bioregionalism is proactive, and is based on forming a harmony between human culture and the natural environment, rather than being protest-based like the original environmental movement. Also, while classical environmentalists saw human industry as the enemy of nature and nature as a victim needing to be saved; bioregionalists see humanity and its culture as a part of nature, focusing on building a positive, sustainable relationship with the environment, rather than a focus on preserving and segregating the wilderness from the world of humanity.\n\nNorth American Bioregional Assemblies have been bi-annual gatherings of bioregionalists throughout North America since 1984 and have given rise to national level Green Parties. In addition, bioregionalism spawned the sustainability movement. The tenets of bioregionalism are often used by green movements, which oppose political organizations whose boundaries conform to existing electoral districts. This problem is perceived to result in elected representatives voting in accordance with their constituents, some of whom may live outside a defined bioregion, and may run counter to the well-being of the bioregion.\n\nAt the local level, several bioregions have congresses that meet regularly. For instance, the Ozark Plateau bioregion hosts a yearly Ozark Area Community Congress, better known as OACC, which has been meeting every year since 1980, most often on the first weekend in October. The Kansas Area Watershed, \"KAW\" was founded in 1982 and has been meeting regularly since that time. KAW holds a yearly meeting, usually in the spring.\n\nThe government of the Canadian province of Alberta has recently made major amendments to its land-use policies including a separate \"land-use framework\" document for each major river basin within the province. This is supported by local initiatives such as the Beaver Hills Initiative, which seeks to create a large biosphere reserve encompassing Elk Island National Park and the surrounding area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28071631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28071631", "title": "Boledehi", "text": "Boledehi\n\nBoledehi (بلیده ای:Baluchi) is a term referring to a group of khans and sardars in southern Balochistan, Sarbaz and Chah Bahar provinces of South West Asia. \n\nFor centuries, Boledehies were the Hakims (princes) of Dashtyari, Bahu and Rask. Their Hakimate in Bahu collapsed due to emigration and the attack of a Sindhi aboriginal tribe known as the sardarzahi (or saddazahi), but they remained as influential hakims in Sarbaz and Nikshahr.\n\n"}
{"id": "40601687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40601687", "title": "Border barrier", "text": "Border barrier\n\nA border barrier is a separation barrier that runs along an international border. Such barriers are typically constructed for border control purposes such as curbing illegal immigration, human trafficking, and smuggling. In cases of a disputed or unclear border, erecting a barrier can serve as a \"de facto\" unilateral consolidation of a territorial claim that can supersede formal delimitation. \n\nExamples of border walls include the ancient Great Wall of China, a series of walls separating China from nomadic empires to the north. The construction of border barriers increased in the early 2000s; half of all the border barriers built since World War II ended in 1945 were built after 2000.\n\n\"Note: The table can be sorted alphabetically or chronologically using the icon.\"\n\nIn 2003, Botswana began building a -long electric fence along its border with Zimbabwe. The official reason for the fence is to stop the spread of foot-and-mouth disease among livestock. Zimbabweans argue that the height of the fence is clearly intended to keep out people. Botswana has responded that the fence is designed to keep out cattle, and to ensure that entrants have their shoes disinfected at legal border crossings. Botswana also argued that the government continues to encourage legal movement into the country. Zimbabwe was unconvinced, and the barrier remains a source of tension.\n\nThe Ceuta border fence was erected in 1993 at the Morocco–Spain border at Ceuta, a city on the North African coast that is Spanish territory in order to block the entrance of illegal immigrants to Spain.\n\nThe Melilla border fence stands at the Morocco–Spain border at Melilla, a city on the North African coast that is Spanish territory, in order to block the entrance of illegal immigrants to Spain.\n\nThe Moroccan Wall is an approximately long structure, mostly a sand wall (or \"berm\"), running through the region of Western Sahara and the southeastern portion of Morocco. It acts as a barrier between the Moroccan-controlled areas (Southern Provinces) and the Polisario-controlled section of the territory – Free Zone or \"de facto\" the self-proclaimed Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic that lies along its eastern and southern border.\n\nAccording to maps from MINURSO or the UNHCR, part of the wall extends several kilometers into internationally recognized Mauritanian territory.\n\nIn 1975 a security fence of was erected by South Africa to keep the violent revolution in Mozambique from spilling into Kruger National Park. In 1990 it was reported:\nOn December 9, 2002, by the presidents of South Africa, Mozambique, and Zimbabwe signed a treaty authorizing the fence to be torn down in order to re-open the ancient elephant migration route between South Africa and Mozambique. The Great Limpopo Transfrontier Park of will connect the national parks of the three countries – South Africa's Kruger National Park, Mozambique's Limpopo National Park, and Zimbabwe's Gonarezhou National Park.\n\nIn 2005 it was reported that only a relatively small portion of the high-security border fence separating South Africa's Kruger National Park with Zimbabwe's Gonarezhou Park had been removed. Security concerns, especially about illegal immigrants and the smuggling of weapons and four-wheel-drive vehicles, have been hindering the removal of more sections of the border fence.\n\nIn 2017, Ecuador began building a border wall along its 1,529 km (950 mile) border with Peru in order to stop smuggling. Peru subsequently asked that Ecuador immediately stop construction.\n\nThe United States has constructed a border barrier along of its border with Mexico of to prevent illegal immigration and to deter smuggling of contraband, particularly illegal drugs. There has been legislation in the U.S. Congress on lengthening the barrier, but progress has been slow due to lobbying and lack of funding. In parts of the US (deserts and mountainous areas), there is only inferior fencing. President Donald Trump promised to build a border wall along the entire US–Mexico border during his campaign. A large majority of Registered and self identified Democrats do not support the construction or extension of a barrier on the border. According to Democrats, the construction of a barrier would be redundant.\n\nIn January 2006, Afghanistan's government decreed that the United Nations, the American embassy, and other foreign organizations in Kabul must clear concrete security barriers that protect their buildings. Most Kabul streets are full of security barriers and large concrete anti-blast blocks aimed at protecting against the insurgent and terrorist attacks that have risen in the past four years since the fall of the Taliban regime. The decree follows pressure from the newly formed Afghan parliament and public complaints over the heavy traffic jams caused by the barriers. The foreign groups are expressing concern and saying that the security situation does not permit that. The United Nations is one of the organizations concerned by the Afghan government's order. UN chief spokesman in Kabul Adrian Edwards said that security barriers are still required. \"We are in a difficult security environment which certainly hasn't improved during 2005\", Edwards said. \"There have been a number of suicide attacks. Within the UN here, I think none of us would wish to be behind these barricades, we would prefer things could be open as we are in some other countries. However, there have been necessary for our security, that's why they are there.\" The Afghan government has said it is determined to remove all the barricades. The directive of the government says that \"blocking the footpaths, streets, and roads is illegal\" and that no one has the right to create obstructions, the only exception being the presidential palace.\n\nBrunei is building a security fence along its border with Limbang, Malaysia, to stop the flow of irregular migrants and smuggled goods.\n\nThe People's Republic of China (PRC) has two Special Administrative Regions on its southeastern coast – Hong Kong and Macau, both of which maintain controlled intra-national borders with the neighbouring Guangdong province in Mainland China. An identity document is inspected when one crosses the border.\n\nHong Kong was a Dependent Territory of the UK until its sovereignty was handed over to the PRC in 1997, while Macau was a Special Territory of Portugal until its sovereignty was handed over to the PRC in 1999. Before the transfers of sovereignty back to the PRC, the Hong Kong–Guangdong and Macau–Guangdong borders were regarded as international borders.\n\nUnder the principle of \"One Country, Two Systems\", the two Special Administrative Regions continue to maintain their own customs and immigration policies, which are independent of those in Mainland China after the handovers. Due to differences in the policies between the special administrative regions and the Mainland, the Hong Kong–Guangdong and Macau–Guangdong borders have been maintained in operation after the returns.\n\nHong Kong has a border stretching with the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone of Guangdong that features fences (topped with barbed tape/razor wire), thermal image sensors, lights, and closed-circuit television. Some sections are along the Shenzhen River thus acting as a physical barrier. The border is also patrolled regularly by police (and previously by the British Army until a short time before the handover in 1997). Just south of Shenzhen River (the geographical delimitation of the border) is a strip of rural land with restricted access, the Closed Area. Currently, the four road border crossings are located at Sha Tau Kok, Man Kam To, Lok Ma Chau, and Shenzhen Bay, and a railway and traveller crossing is located at Lo Wu. The residents of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region are required to have their Hong Kong ID Cards inspected by the Hong Kong Immigration Department and their Home Return Permits inspected by the Public Security Bureau of Guangdong when they cross the border. Travelers from other countries and regions are required to present their passports or other types of travel documents for immigration clearance at both Hong Kong immigration checkpoints and Mainland China immigration ports.\n\nMacau has been maintaining a controlled border with Zhuhai City in Guangdong with a crossing available at the Border Gate (built in 1870). The border crossing is equipped with 54 counters for travelers and 8 for vehicular traffic. Opened in 1999, Macau's Lotus Bridge supplemented what has been the only border crossing into mainland China through Border Gate. Both border crossings allow access to Zhuhai. Canal dos Patos, a former canal forms part of the border area along with Sun Yat-sen Municipal Park located to west of Border Gate area. Fencing along both sides of the canal restricts access to either side. Pagoda-like sentry towers are located along the Mainland China side of the border.\n\nChina, in October 2006, is also building a security barrier along its border with North Korea to prevent illegal immigrants.\n\nEgypt began construction of a formidable barrier between Egypt and Gaza in 2009 prompted by concern that militant Islamist factions were making use of the Gaza Strip smuggling tunnels to move weapons and personnel between Gaza and Egypt.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, India has been involved in the construction of some of the lengthiest border barriers along its international borders. Six of the nine countries neighboring India are classified as Least Developed Countries, and thus thousands of people from these countries – especially from Bangladesh and Burma – illegally immigrate into India.\n\nThe India–Bangladesh barrier and India–Myanmar barrier are being built to check smuggling, illegal immigration, and infiltration by Islamist terrorists. The refugee crisis could also ensue should a climate catastrophe ravage South Asia.\n\nIn addition, India completed the construction of the Indian Kashmir barrier, which runs along the Line of Control in Kashmir. The purpose of this barrier is to prevent infiltration by armed militants.\n\nThe Iran–Pakistan barrier wall is long, which Iran claims is to stop the flow of illegal border crossings, stem the flow of drugs, and prevent terror attacks. However, the Provincial Assembly of Balochistan, whose lands straddle the border region, strongly opposed the barrier as the wall would divide the Baloch people politically and socially, with trade and social activities being seriously impeded.\n\nLeader of the Opposition, Kachkol Ali, said the governments of the two countries had not taken the Baloch into their confidence on this matter and demanded that construction be stopped immediately and he also appealed to the international community. Residents of the Sorap locality in the Mand area of western Mekran region in Balochistan province rely on edible goods from Iran for their livelihood but Iranian border security forces vacate the town. According to BBC, \"The Balochistanis, who live on both sides of the border and in the area where both countries neighbour Afghanistan, have had their communities divided by the wall.\"\n\nDue to Israel's specific security situation, as well as immigration concerns, border fences and walls have been utilized:\n\nSouth Korea has constructed a border barrier between its territory and North Korea to obstruct any southward movement by the army of North Korea.\nThe border features:\n\nThe United Nations has constructed a demilitarized zone to stop Iraq from re-invading Kuwait; Kuwait plans to install a new border barrier as well.\n\nIn September 2005, Pakistan stated it has plans to build a fence along its border with Afghanistan to prevent Islamic insurgents and drug smugglers slipping between the two countries. Former Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has subsequently offered to mine the border as well.\n\nThere is an electronic security barrier (ex-\"Iron Curtain\") along the old Soviet border. Also, a is on the border of Russia with Norway, Finland, China, Mongolia, and North Korea. There is no barrier on Russian territory along the border with Estonia, Latvia, Belarus, or Ukraine, but there are some barriers on the Estonian, Latvian sides. It was reported in 2005 that the Russian government was considering the construction of a security barrier along its internal border with Chechnya to combat terrorism.\n\nSaudi Arabia has begun construction of a border barrier or fence between its territory and Yemen to prevent the unauthorized movement of people and goods. The difference between the countries' economic situations means that many Yemenis head to Saudi Arabia to find work. Saudi Arabia does not have a barrier with its other neighbors in the Gulf Cooperation Council, whose economies are more similar.\nIn 2006 Saudi Arabia proposed constructing a security fence along the entire length of its desert border of with Iraq in a multimillion-dollar project to secure the Kingdom's borders in order to improve internal security, control illegal immigration, and bolster its defences against external threats.\n\nAs of July 2009 it was reported that Saudis will pay $3.5 billion for security fence. The combined wall and ditch will be 600 miles long and include five layers of fencing, watch towers, night-vision cameras, and radar cameras and manned by 30,000 troops.\n\nThailand plans to build a concrete fence along parts of its border with Malaysia to keep Muslim militants and dual citizens from crossing Thailand's southern border with Malaysia.\n\nTurkey announced a plan in July 2015 to build an 800-km (500-mi) wall along its border with Syria.\n\nThe UAE is building a security barrier along its border with Oman.\n\nIn 1999 Uzbekistan began constructing a barbed wire fence to secure its border with Kyrgyzstan.\nIn 2001 Uzbekistan fortified the fence with Afghanistan.\n\nIn October 2015, during the European migrant crisis, Austrian interior minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner announced construction of up to long border barriers at several border crossings with Slovenia. It is to be constructed within days with the aim of restoring order at the border. The barrier is to be guarded by Austrian police and Austrian Armed Forces.\n\nThere is an electronic security barrier along the Belarus–Poland border consisting of Soviet-made security electric fences S-175 and KS-185. There are no electronic barriers on other borders.\n\nBulgaria has built a fence on its border with Turkey starting in 2013.\n\nIn August 2015, Estonia announced a plan to build a barrier on its border with Russia.\n\nThe Calais border barrier built jointly by Britain and France on French soil surrounds the port and Channel Tunnel entrance at Calais.\n\nAfter having made an agreement with Frontex on the guard of the maritime borders of Greece with Turkey the Greek government decided a wall to be built at the land border with Turkey, the Evros River. These actions have been made as a reaction to the illegal immigration to Greece through the Greco-Turkish borders. These immigrants are originated from Asian and African states. From January to the beginning of November 2010, 32,500 illegal migrants were intercepted in a single stretch of the Turkish–Greek border along the Evros River. Actually this site is the main entrance of illegal immigrants to the EU from the Asian continent. Illegal immigration is a current sore subject between the two countries.\n\nGreece has constructed a barrier on the section of its land border with Turkey that is not separated by the Evros river, between October 2011 and December 2012.\n\nHungary completed the construction of a wall between Hungary and Serbia in September 2015 and on the border with Croatia in October 2015 to stop illegal migration into the EU. In April 2016, Hungarian government announced construction of reinforcements of the barrier, which it described as \"temporary\". In July 2016, nearly 1,300 migrants were \"stuck\" on the Serbian side of the border. In August 2016, Orbán announced that Hungary will build another larger barrier on its southern border. On April 28, 2017, the Hungarian government announced it had completed a second fence, long, on the Serbian border.\n\nOn September 24, 2015, Hungary began building fence on its border with Slovenia, in the area around Tornyiszentmiklós–Pince border crossing. The razor wire obstacle was removed two days later. As of March 2016, everything is in place if Hungary decides to build a border barrier on the Hungarian–Romanian border – the military is \"only waiting for the command from the government\".\n\nAttempted border entries have fallen since the barrier was constructed. During the month of September 2015 there was a total number of 138,396 migrant entries, and by the first two weeks of November the average daily number of intercepted migrants decreased to only 15, which is a daily reduction of more than 4,500.\n\nLatvia started to build a fence on its border with Russia in December 2015.\n\nBBC News reported in January 2017, that Lithuania was planning a fence on its border with the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad. The fence is to be tall and long.\n\nMacedonia began erecting a fence on its border with Greece in November 2015.\n\nIn Belfast, Derry, and other settlements in Northern Ireland, barriers called \"peace lines\" have been built to separate the two main communities. Their purpose is to minimize inter-communal violence between Irish nationalists/republicans (who mainly self-identify as Irish and/or Catholic) and unionists/loyalists (who mainly self-identify as British and/or Protestant). They were first built following the 1969 riots and beginning of the \"Troubles\". They have continued to be built and expanded since the Belfast Agreement of 1998. In 2008 a public discussion began about how and when the barriers could be removed. On 1 September 2011, Belfast City Council agreed to develop a strategy regarding the removal of peace walls. \nAt the end of 2011 several local community initiatives resulted in several interface structures being opened for a trial period.\nIn January 2012, the International Fund for Ireland launched a Peace Walls funding programme to support local communities who want to work towards removing the peace walls.\n\nIn 2016 Norway constructed a barrier along a short part of its border with Russia, near the only official border crossing.\n\nSlovenia began erecting a border barrier along its border with Croatia in 2015 to control illegal migration into the Schengen Area.\n\nThe European Union and Spain have constructed barriers between Morocco and the Spanish exclaves of Ceuta and Melilla to prevent illegal immigration and smuggling.\n\nEven though both the United Kingdom and Spain are part of the European Union, the border fence separating Gibraltar and Spain is still relevant because Gibraltar, a British Overseas Territory, is not part of the Schengen Area so remains outside of the customs union and VAT area. The border crossing is open twenty-four hours a day to facilitate customs collection by Spain.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57110692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57110692", "title": "Bosma", "text": "Bosma\n\nBosma is a West Frisian toponymic surname meaning \"from/of the forest\". Variants are \"Boschma\", \"Boskma\" and \"Bossema\". Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1261982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261982", "title": "Bulu (Fijian mythology)", "text": "Bulu (Fijian mythology)\n\nIn Fijian mythology, Bulu (pronounced: \"Mbúlu\") is a name for the 'world of spirits' (presumably the underworld). In the month called \"Vula-i-Ratumaibulu\", the god Ratumaibulu comes from Bulu, the world of spirits, to make the breadfruit and other fruit trees blossom and yield fruit. Ratumaibulu is a god of great importance who presides over agriculture.\n\nAnother source refers to a \"place called 'Nabagatai' on the road to 'Bulu', the separate state or land of souls\".\n\nThe most westerly point of the island of Vanua Levu was the place from which the departed spirits started out for Bulu, the eternal abode of the blessed (Freese 2005:70).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1410237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1410237", "title": "Carl O. Sauer", "text": "Carl O. Sauer\n\nCarl Ortwin Sauer (December 24, 1889 – July 18, 1975) was an American geographer. Sauer was a professor of geography at the University of California at Berkeley from 1923 until becoming professor emeritus in 1957. He has been called \"the dean of American historical geography\" and he was instrumental in the early development of the geography graduate school at Berkeley. One of his best known works was \"Agricultural Origins and Dispersals\" (1952). In 1927, Carl Sauer wrote the article \"Recent Developments in Cultural Geography,\" which considered how cultural landscapes are made up of \"the forms superimposed on the physical landscape.\"\n\nSauer, of German ancestry, was born in Warrenton, Missouri and graduated from the University of Chicago with a Ph.D. in 1915.\n\nCarl Sauer's paper \"The Morphology of Landscape\" was probably the most influential English-language article in introducing ideas on cultural landscapes and is still cited today. However, Sauer's paper was really about his own vision for the discipline of geography, which was to establish the discipline on a phenomenological basis, rather than being specifically concerned with cultural landscapes. \"Every field of knowledge is characterized by its declared preoccupation with a certain group of phenomena,\" according to Sauer. Geography was assigned the study of areal knowledge or landscapes or chorology—following the thoughts of Alfred Hettner. \"Within each landscape there are phenomena that are not simply there but are either associated or independent of each other.\" Sauer saw the geographer's task as being to discover the areal connection between phenomena. Thus \"the task of geography is conceived as the establishment of a critical system which embraces the phenomenology of landscape, in order to grasp in all of its meaning and colour the varied terrestrial scene\" A collection of Sauer's letters while doing fieldwork in South America has been published.\n\nSauer was a fierce critic of environmental determinism, which was the prevailing theory in geography when he began his career. He proposed instead an approach variously called \"landscape morphology\" or \"cultural history.\" This approach involved the inductive gathering of facts about the human impact on the landscape over time. Sauer rejected positivism, preferring particularist and historicist understandings of the world. He drew on the work of anthropologist Alfred Kroeber and was influenced by German Latin Americanist geographer Oskar Schmieder—a disciple of Hettner—, and later critics accused him of introducing a \"superorganic\" concept of culture into geography. Politically Sauer was a conservative , but expressed concern about the way that modern capitalism and centralized government were destroying the cultural diversity and environmental health of the world. He believed that agriculture, and domestication of plants and animals had an effect on the physical environment.\n\nAfter his retirement, Sauer's school of human-environment geography developed into cultural ecology, political ecology, and historical ecology. Historical ecology retains Sauer's interest in human modification of the landscape and pre-modern cultures.\n\nHe was awarded an Honorary Fellowship from the American Geographical Society in 1935, and its Daly Medal in 1940.\n\nSauer graduated many doctoral students, the majority completing dissertations on Latin American and Caribbean topics and thereby founding the Berkeley School of Latin Americanist Geography. The first generation consisted of Sauer's own students: Fred B. Kniffen (1930), Peveril Meigs (1932), Donald Brand (1933), Henry Bruman (1940), Felix W. McBryde (1940), Robert Bowman (1941), Dan Stanislawski (1944), Robert C. West (1946), James J. Parsons (1948), Edwin Doran (1953), Philip Wagner (1953), Brigham Arnold (1954), Homer Aschmann (1954), B. LeRoy Gordon (1954), Gordon Merrill (1957), Donald Innis (1958), Marvin W. Mikesell (1958), Carl Johannessen (1959), Clinton Edwards (1962), and Leonard Sawatzky (1967).\n\nAmong them, Parsons remained at the University of California at Berkeley and became prolific in directing Latin Americanist doctoral dissertations. His doctoral students formed the second generation of the Berkeley School: Campbell Pennington (1959), William Denevan (1963), David Harris (1963), David Radell (1964), Thomas Veblen (1975), Karl Zimmerer (1987), Paul F. Starrs (1989), John B. Wright (1990), and David J. Larson (1994). Apart from Latin America, Parsons' Ph.D. students such as Alvin W. Urquhart (1962) also worked in Africa.\n\nDenevan became a professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and, in turn, produced a third generation: Daniel Gade (1967), Bernard Nietschmann (1970), Roger Byrne (1972), Roland Bergmann (1974), Billie Lee Turner II (1974), Gregory Knapp (1984), Kent Mathewson (1987), John M. Treacy (1989), and Oliver Coomes (1992). Mikesell became a professor at the University of Chicago and also produced a third generation.\n\nA member of the fourth generation, William E. Doolittle studied with Turner, earned the Ph.D. in 1979, became a professor in the Department of Geography and the Environment at University of Texas at Austin, and has extended the school into the fifth generation: Dean P. Lambert (1992), Andrew Sluyter (1995), Emily H. Young (1995), Eric P. Perramond (1999), Phil L. Crossley (1999), Jerry O. (Joby) Bass (2003), Maria G. Fadiman (2003), and Matthew Fry (2008).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56562405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56562405", "title": "Cayman Ridge", "text": "Cayman Ridge\n\nThe Cayman Ridge is a submarine mountain range on the northern margin of the Cayman Trough in the Caribbean Sea. It extends from the Sierra Maestra in the east to the Misteriosa Bank in the west, a distance of about . The Cayman Ridge also includes the Cayman Islands.\n\nThe ridge formed as an island arc when the Cayman Trough was the site of a subduction zone during the Paleocene and Eocene epochs. As the dynamics of the area changed, the subduction zone became a transform fault zone with a pull-apart basin during which time volcanism had dwindled along the entire length of the arc. The Cayman Ridge is now an inactive volcanic zone.\n"}
{"id": "36798069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36798069", "title": "Civil defense by country", "text": "Civil defense by country\n\nMany countries around the world have civil defense organizations dedicated to protecting civilians from military attacks and providing rescue services after widespread disasters. In most countries, civil defense is a government-managed and often volunteer-staffed organization.\n\nTowards the end of the Cold War, a number of civil defense organizations have been disbanded or mothballed (as in the case of the Royal Observer Corps in the United Kingdom and the United States civil defense), while others have changed their focuses into providing rescue services after natural disasters (as for the State Emergency Service in Australia).\n\nThe Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps \"is a para-military agency of the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that is commissioned in 2003, to provide measures against threat and any form of attack or disaster against the nation and its citizenry.\"\n\nStates and some cities have their own civil defense measures, overseen by the Ministry of National Integration.\n\nCanada's civil defense measures evolved over time. As with many other matters in Canada, responsibility is shared between the federal and provincial government. The first post-WWII civil defence co-ordinator was appointed in October 1948 \"to supervise the work of federal, provincial and municipal authorities in planning for public air-raid shelters, emergency food and medical supplies, and the evacuation of likely target areas\".\n\nIn 1959, the Government of Canada, under John Diefenbaker handed authority for civilian defense to the Emergency Measures Organisation (EMO). Large fallout shelters, known as \"Diefenbunkers\" were built at rural locations outside major cities across Canada at the height of the Cold War during the infancy of the ICBM threat.\n\nThe EMO then became Emergency Planning Canada in 1974, then Emergency Preparedness Canada in 1986. In February 2001, the Government replaced Emergency Preparedness with the Office of Critical Infrastructure Protection and Emergency Preparedness (OCIPEP), responsible for civilian emergency planning in both peace and war.\n\nAmong the \"Core Missions\" of the Canada First Defense Strategy (under the Canadian Department of National Defense) are to respond to terrorist attacks and other crises such as natural disasters. According to the Emergency Management Act, the Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness is responsible for exercising leadership relating to emergency management in Canada by coordinating, among government institutions and in cooperation with the provinces and other entities, emergency management activities.\n\nAnguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, the British Virgin Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, and the Turks and Caicos Islands, are members of the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency, which organizes relief efforts after widespread disasters. Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Saint Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines are also members of the Regional Security System, which may also provide assistance during national emergencies.\n\nThe Panama Civil Defense Seismic Network has the capability of informing and warning citizens of hazardous conditions such as earthquakes, volcanoes, or tsunami.\n\nThe Office of Civilian Defense was set up May 20, 1941, by Executive Order 8757, to co-ordinate state and federal measures for protection of civilians in case of war emergency. The Federal Civil Defense Administration (FCDA) was organized on December 1, 1950, and distributed civil defense information until it was merged with FEMA in 1979. Between 1979 and 2001, the duties of Civil Defense were served by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). FEMA was absorbed into the Department of Homeland Security in 2003.\n\nAustralia's State Emergency Service is a fully volunteer organization intended to provide emergency help during and after officially declared disasters. The SES is one of many public safety organizations using the Australasian Inter-Service Incident Management System.\n\nCivil Protection in Albania is coordinated by \"Drejtoria e Përgjithshme e Emergjencave Civile\" (General Directorate of Civil Emergencies), a department within the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Albania. Established in 2001, this Directorate deals with preparedness and response to natural and man-made disasters.\n\nThe Belgian Civil Protection is coordinated by the Federal Public Service Interior (the former Ministry of the Interior) and operates as a specialized second-line service. It is not a first-response service like the fire departments, but is only called upon when specialized assistance is needed. Its main tasks revolve around CBRN incidents, search and rescue operations and heavy technical assistance. As of 2016, the Belgian Civil Protection employs about 1,100 people, of which 450 professionals and 650 volunteers.\n\nChina continues to construct large public emergency shelters. Not less than three large (maximum capacity of around 8000) shelters are to be completed in the Shanghai area by 2012, with more planned. The ironic completion date of late 2012 has been dismissed as coincidence, with the true intent claimed to be a response to the 2008 Sichuan earthquakes, \"as a precaution against possible natural disasters.\"\n\nThe Cyprus Civil Defense Force was established in 1964 in response to the Turkish bombings of Tilliria in order to protect the civilian population and to help it recover from the immediate effects of hostilities or disasters.\n\nThe Danish Emergency Management Agency is a governmental agency under the Ministry of Defence chiefly tasked with preparing for and responding to natural disasters and national emergencies in Denmark. The DEMA is also capable of deploying abroad on request from other states. It evolved from the wartime \"Civilforsvarsstyrelsen\" (Civil Defense Agency), and the general public still often refer to it as the Civil Defense.\n\nCivil defense in Finland is a civilian effort, coordinated by the Ministry of Interior through the Civil Defense Act of 1958, to provide shelters in high-risk areas, evacuate civilian populations from threatened areas, and limit damage from natural disasters.\n\nThe Direction de la Défense de la Sécurité Civile (Department of Civil Defense and Emergency Preparedness) is the civil defence agency of the French Government, which includes the Sous-Direction des Sapeur-pompiers and the Sous-Direction des opérations de Secours et de la coopération civilo-militaire (Rescue operation and civil-military cooperation branch).\n\nThe German Federal Agency for Technical Relief (THW Technisches Hilfswerk) is an organization of voluntary experts as an authority in the department of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, founded in 1950.\n\nBadan Nasional Penanggulangan Bencana or loosely translated into English as Indonesian National Board for Disaster Management is the government agency that has the authority of managing disaster in the national scale.\n\nCivil Defence Ireland, established in 1950 in response to the threat of nuclear disaster following \"The Emergency\", is operated at local authority level in conjunction with the Department of Defence.\n\nEstablished in 1949, the IOMCDC is an emergency service of the Isle of Man Government, with a wide brief for emergency response, civilian evacuation, flood control, disaster management, emergency communications, and mass decontamination.\n\nThe Israeli Home Front Command was created in February 1992 to cope with the variety of military and terrorist threats to the centers of civilian population in Israel.\n\nThe Protezione Civile (Civil Protection) deals with the prediction, prevention and management of exceptional events.\n\nThe Directorate General for the Lebanese Civil Defense works alongside the Lebanese Red Cross and is administered by the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (Lebanon). It provides search and rescue, fire-fighting and pre-hospital services.\n\nThe Malaysia Civil Defence Force is mainly in charge of disaster relief efforts. A separate department the Malaysian Fire and Rescue Department is in charge of the fire and rescue services in Malaysia.\n\nThe Corps des Sapeurs-Pompiers is a military force, consisting of 135 military personnel and 25 civilian employees, which handles fire-fighting and civil defense duties.\n\nThe Norwegian Civil Defence support the police, fire departments and health care during larger incidents which those departments do not have the manpower to handle.\n\nThe Directorate General of Civil Defence provides civil defence services in Pakistan.\n\nThe Office of Civil Defense began as the National Civil Defense Administration, established on August 18, 1954 through the Civil Defense Act of 1954. The Department of National Defense exercises executive supervision over the Office of Civil Defense.\n\nOn September 27, 2010 the 'Philippine Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act of 2010' was passed to strengthen the country's disaster risk reduction and management system in response to Typhoon Ondoy.\n\nIn Portugal, Autoridade Nacional de Proteção Civil (ANPC) is responsible for the planning, coordination and execution of the civil protection policy.\n\nIn Romania, the General Inspectorate for Emergency Situations () is the governmental body responsible for nationwide civil defence. Each county has a bureau in charge of emergency management in the area. IGSU is accountable for the construction and maintenance of public ABC shelters.\n\nThe concept of centralized civil defence arose in 1933, through the Royal Decree 433. It continues to be part of various ministries, such as Internal Affairs and Defence.\n\nDuring the Soviet era, specialized civil defence subunits were maintained in order to provide assistance to the population afterbombing raids and nuclear, biological or chemical attacks. And today, by law, the Ministry of the Russian Federation for Affairs for Civil Defence, Emergencies and Elimination of Consequences of Natural Disasters civil defence troops must retain such a wartime role. Thus they are charged with the organisation and coordination of Russian military forces for the purpose of civil defence not only during natural and manmade disasters, but also during wartime.\n\nThe Civil Police are responsible for civil defence, as well as tax collection, domestic security, and traffic control.\n\nThe Singapore Civil Defense Force (SCDF) was established by the Civil Defense Act of 1986 as an independent organization under the Ministry of Home Affairs. The SCDF and the Singapore Fire Service were formally merged in 1989.\n\nOn December 15, 2010, Seoul held its largest civil defense drill in since 1975, in response to the Bombardment of Yeonpyeong.\n\nThe Sri Lanka Department of Civil Security is a paramilitary force which is tasked as an auxiliary to the Sri Lanka Police. It evolved from the \"Home Guards\" created in response to attacks by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam.\n\nSwedish civil defense \"consists of a diverse range of activities conducted by society to strengthen the ability to cope with a state of heightened alert and war.\" Sweden's objectives of civil defence are to: protect the civilian population; contribute to peace and security; and strengthen societies ability to prevent and manage severe peacetime emergencies.\n\nThe Swiss Federal Office for Civil Protection (FOCP), under the Federal Department of Defence, Civil Protection and Sports, is responsible for the coordination of civil defense services. It operates the National Emergency Operations Center (NEOC) and the Spiez Laboratory, which is responsible for weapons of mass destruction research and protection. Switzerland built an extensive network of fallout shelters during the cold war, including the Sonnenberg Tunnel. The reference Nuclear War Survival Skills declared that, as of 1986, \"Switzerland has the best civil defense system, one that already includes blast shelters for over 85 percent of all its citizens.\"\n\nThe Civil Defence Corps was a civilian volunteer organization established in Great Britain in 1949, to aid in the aftermath of a nuclear attack.\n\nthough, it was clear that even with civil defense people would still die and so they disbanded in 1968\n"}
{"id": "13839035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13839035", "title": "Coats of arms of South America", "text": "Coats of arms of South America\n\nThis is a list of the national coats of arms of South American countries.\n"}
{"id": "996305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996305", "title": "Colluvium", "text": "Colluvium\n\nColluvium (also colluvial material or colluvial soil) is a general name for loose, unconsolidated sediments that have been deposited at the base of hillslopes by either rainwash, sheetwash, slow continuous downslope creep, or a variable combination of these processes. Colluvium is typically composed of a heterogeneous range of rock types and sediments ranging from silt to rock fragments of various sizes. This term is also used to specifically refer to sediment deposited at the base of a hillslope by unconcentrated surface runoff or sheet erosion.\n\nColluviation refers to the buildup of colluvium at the base of a hillslope. Colluvium is typically loosely consolidated angular material located at the base of a steep hill slope or cliff. Colluvium accumulates as gently sloping aprons or fans, either at the base of or within gullies and hollows within hillslopes. These accumulations of colluvium can be several meters in thickness and often contain buried soils (paleosols), crude bedding, and cut and fill sequences.\n\nThick accumulations of colluvium may preserve a rich record of long term paleoclimatic change based on the paleosols and the remains of plants and animals, invertebrate and vertebrates that they often contain. These fossils indicate previous geologic and environmental settings. Thick accumulations of colluvium often contain well-preserved and sometimes deeply buried archaeological deposits as excavated at the Cherokee Sewer Site, Cherokee County, Iowa, and the Koster Site, Greene County, Illinois. Colluvium can also be rocks that have been transported downward from glaciers and so can indicate past stages of cooler and/or wetter weather. Deposits of detrital colluvium can reveal the soil composition and signify processes of chemical weathering.\n\nThe definitions of colluvium and alluvium are interdependent and reliant on one another. Distinctions between the two are important in order to properly define the geomorphic processes that have occurred in a specific geological setting. Alluvium is sand, clay, or other similar detrital material deposited by running water. The distinction between colluvium and alluvium relates to the involvement of running water. Alluvium specifically refers to the geomorphic processes involved with flowing water and so alluvium is generally fine-grained clay and silt material that has the capacity to be entrained in water currents and eventually deposited. For these same reasons, alluvium is also generally well sorted material while colluvium is not.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29828458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29828458", "title": "El Indio Gold Belt", "text": "El Indio Gold Belt\n\nThe El Indio Gold Belt is a mineral-rich region spanning the border between Chile and Argentina that contains large quantities of gold, silver and copper. On both sides of the border the belt is located within the Andes.\nThe El Indio mine within the district was the first modern mine in Chile to produce gold as its main product. In Chile the main precious metal containing mineral is enargite. The El Indio belt is bordered in the north by another gold-silver mining district known as the Frontera District. , alunite and poughit are some of the minerals present in the area. It formed during the Late Miocene period.\n\nThe world's largest gold miner Barrick Gold used to be the only foreign company heavily invested in the region however more recently a number of other companes have begun exploratory activity.\n\nIn Chile the district was first officially recognized in 1975 and operated in 1979. El Indio, the main mine in the area was discovered in 1975 by St. Joe Minerals, and placed in production in 1981, with initial production of bonanza gold from quartz-gold veins: 500, 000 MT @ 121 g/MT Au. Total production plus reserves was quoted (circa 2000) as 23.2 mt @ 6.6 g/t Au, 50 g/t Ag, 4% Cu. Individual drill samples in the bonanza for assay were so rich, visible gold could be easily panned from the assay pulps.\n\nEl Indio was purchased by Barrick Chile in 1994; that mine is associated with a hydrothermal system of a volcanic caldera. \nChile's portion of the belt consisted of 3 major mines; El Indio, Pascua Lama, and Tambo (since 1995). Gold reserves in the belt located within Argentina may be as high as 35 million ounces.\n\nOne of the largest mines in the belt, the Tambo Mine operated by Barrick Gold, closed in 2001 after attempts by the company to replace reserves proved unsuccessful. The mine, with a design capacity of 200,000 ounces a year was deplete of gold by 1999–2001. The El Indio mine closed in 2002, and the site has since been reclaimed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1413089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1413089", "title": "European microstates", "text": "European microstates\n\nThe European microstates or European ministates are a set of very small sovereign states in Europe. The term is typically used to refer to the six smallest states in Europe by area: Andorra, Liechtenstein, Malta, Monaco, San Marino, and Vatican City. Four of these states are monarchies (three principalities—Andorra, Liechtenstein, and Monaco—and one papacy, the Vatican City), with all these states tracing their status back to the first millennium or the early second millennium, except for Liechtenstein, created in the 17th century.\n\nMicrostates are small independent states recognized by larger states, unlike micronations, which are only self-declared and not recognized. According to the qualitative definition suggested by Dumienski (2014), microstates can also be viewed as \"modern protected states, i.e. sovereign states that have been able to unilaterally depute certain attributes of sovereignty to larger powers in exchange for benign protection of their political and economic viability against their geographic or demographic constraints.\" In line with this definition, only Andorra, Liechtenstein, San Marino, and Monaco qualify as \"microstates\" as only these states are sovereignties functioning in close, but voluntary, association with their respective larger neighbour(s). Luxembourg, which is much larger than all the European microstates combined, nonetheless shares some of these characteristics.\n\nSome scholars dispute the status of Vatican City as a state, arguing that it does not meet the \"traditional criteria of statehood\" and that the \"special status of the Vatican City is probably best regarded as a means of ensuring that the Pope can freely exercise his spiritual functions, and in this respect is loosely analogous to that of the headquarters of international organisations.\"\n\nThe European microstates are all of limited size and population, and have limited natural resources. As a result, they have adopted special economic policies, typically involving low levels of taxation and few restrictions on external financial investment. Malta is a full member of the European Union, while the other five European microstates have obtained special relations with the European Union. Many of the microstates have also entered into a customs union with their larger neighbours to improve their economic situation (Vatican City and San Marino with Italy, Liechtenstein with Switzerland, Monaco with France). Most of them lack clearly marked borders; for example, Monaco forms a continuous metropolitan area with its neighboring French communes (the largest being Beausoleil) and has many streets running across or even along the border.\n\nWhile the microstates have sovereignty over their own territory, there are also a number of small autonomous territories, which despite having (in almost all cases) their own independent government, executive branch, legislature, judiciary, police, and other trappings of independence, are nonetheless under the sovereignty of another state or monarch.\n\n\nThe Sovereign Military Order of Malta is a Catholic lay order that is a traditional example of a sovereign entity under international law other than a state.\n\nUnlike the Holy See, which is sovereign over the Vatican City, the Order has no territory. However, its headquarters, located in Palazzo Malta and Villa Malta, are granted extraterritoriality by Italy, and the same status is recognized by Malta to its historical headquarters, located in Fort St Angelo.\nThe Order is the direct successor to the medieval Knights Hospitaller, also known as the Knights of Malta, and today operates as a largely charitable and ceremonial organization.\n\nIt has permanent observer status at the United Nations and has full diplomatic relations, including embassies, with 100 states and it is in more informal relationships with five others. It issues its own stamps, coins, passports, and license plates, and has its own army medical corps.\n\nThe wars of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars caused the European map to be redrawn several times. A number of short-lived client republics were created, and the fall of the Holy Roman Empire gave sovereignty to each of its many surviving \"Kleinstaaterei\". The situation was not stabilized until after the Congress of Vienna in 1815. Following World War I and World War II a number of territories gained temporary status as international zones, protectorates or occupied territories. A few of them are mentioned here:\n\nA 1955 novel called \"The Mouse That Roared\" by Irish-American writer Leonard Wibberley features an imaginary European microstate called the Duchy of Grand Fenwick. The novel was later adapted to a play and film.\n\nSome of the European microstates are members of the Games of the Small States of Europe (GSSE); several of the island dependencies compete in the Island Games, alongside several other island dependencies from elsewhere in the world. Countries that participate at the Games of the Small States of Europe are: Andorra, Cyprus, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro and San Marino.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29173731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29173731", "title": "Geneva Environment Network", "text": "Geneva Environment Network\n\nThe Geneva Environment Network (GEN) is a cooperative partnership of over 75 environment and sustainable development organizations based in the Geneva area, including United Nations offices and programmes, local authorities, academic institutions and non-governmental organizations.\n\nSet up in 1999 with the support of the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment, and under the coordination of UNEP Regional Office for Europe (ROE), the GEN Secretariat is based in the International Environment House (IEH), which gathers under a common roof a range of United Nations and non-governmental organizations active in the field of environment and sustainable development. GEN actively promotes increased cooperation and networking between its members by organizing and hosting meetings on the environment and sustainable development, such as roundtables and international workshops. During the past ten years, GEN has provided a welcome centre, a single access point to environmental information and knowledge to its members and public at large, and conference services. \n\nThe network members contribute actively to the GEN by sharing information and material, co-organizing and attending events. \n\n"}
{"id": "35788615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35788615", "title": "George Gauld (surveyor)", "text": "George Gauld (surveyor)\n\nGeorge Gauld (1731–1782) was a British military engineer, artist, cartographer, geographer and surveyor.\n\nGeorge Gauld was born in Ardbrack, Banffshire, Scotland, in 1731, and was educated at King's College in Aberdeen, where he received his Master of Arts degree. He became a cartographer and painter, and was on the HMS Deptford in 1761, same ship that proved John Harrison's marine chronometer to be correct.\n\nPrior to the French and Indian War (Seven Years' War) the British possessed few detailed maps of the interior of North America. The land beyond the Appalachian Mountains had been dominated by the French and their Indian allies. However, British colonial expansion and the military operations led to a flurry of mapping in the form of reconnaissance and route maps, fortification plans, and map depicting engagements. \"At the conclusion of the war in 1763, Britain was left in possession of a vast and little known addition to its seaboard colonies. To facilitate the administration and development of Canada and the western territory, topographical surveys were initiated. Notable examples are the James Murray survey of the St. Lawrence River valley (1761–63), the first detailed hydrographic survey of the Ohio River by Harry Gordon and Thomas Hutchins (1766), Philip Pittman's surveys of the Mississippi and Iberville River (now known as Bayou Manchac) (1765), and the surveys of East and West Florida by David Taitt, George Gauld and Bernard Romans (1772–73).\"\n\nBetween 1764 and 1781, George Gauld was assigned by the British Admiralty to chart the waters off the coast of the British colony of West Florida. \"After Florida came into the possession of Great Britain, the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, sent out Mr George Gauld to make a thorough survey of the whole coast. He was employed in surveying the coasts and harbours of West Florida, and the west coast of East Florida from the summer of 1764, to the year 1781, when he was made prisoner by the Spaniards, in their invasion of Florida. These surveys were not published until the year 1790, after the death of Mr Gauld. Much remains to be done by our own government in improving the charts of this dangerous coast. It does not appear precisely at what time.\"\n\nA description of Jamaica mentions Gauld's early work. \"Modern charts give only the outline of this area; but there is a particularly interesting chart, \"Plan of Port Royal Harbour,\" by George Gauld, \"Surveyor General of the Coast of West Florida,\" the field work for which was apparently completed in I772, which shows the probable make-up of the Plum Point area at the time. The chart was published in London by W. Faden in I798 and gives the impression of careful work.\"\n\nIn 1773, Gauld submitted some of his findings to the American Philosophical Society, hoping they would be published in the \"Transactions\". Although his report was not published, it became one of the first submissions entered into the Society's collections. This manuscript also includes a letter from Dr. John Lorimer to Gauld, and a sketch of the Middle and Yellow Rivers of West Florida by Thomas Hutchins.\n\nIn 1774, George Gauld, Dr. John Lorimer (doctor), Thomas Hutchins, Captain Thomas Davey, RN, and Major Alexander Dickson of the 16th Regiment of Foot, made a mapping expedition from Manchac to the mouth of the Yazoo River. Major Dickson went with them for the first part of the survey, and helped them investigate the Manchac region, but evidently left the group at Natchez. Dr. Lorimer made careful measurements of latitude at Natchez, and then the remainder of the party continued further north to the mouth of the Yazoo River. Major Dickson was back in Pensacola by 30 April, although it is unknown if he returned by going up the Manchac to the Iberville River, or south to New Orleans. He appeared back in Pensacola almost two weeks after the return of the main party that went up further north. They had hoped to be able to find a route up the Mississippi River without having to go through Spanish controlled New Orleans. The second reason for this map is to show the landholdings of various planters and speculators. Many were speculators, including George Guald and Dr. Lorimer. The land they owned on Thompson's Creek were acquired by Dr. Lorimer and George Gauld in 1772, and then visited by them, perhaps for the first time, during this trip. This cheap land was mostly purchased for speculation, because running the property profitably as a plantation would have been too difficult as absentee landlords from their homes on the Gulf Coast.\n\nLater, Thomas Hutchins would write an account of this journey, with acknowledgment to the information he had received from George Gauld: “It may be proper to observe that I have had the assistance of the remarks and surveys, so far as relates to the mouths of the Mississippi and the coast and foundings of West Florida, of the late ingenious Mr. George Gauld, a Gentleman who was employed by the Lords of the Admiralty for the express purpose of making an accurate chart of the above mentioned places.”\n\nMany people copied his maps and charts in those days before strict copyright laws. A book by William Stork reputedly featured a plagiarised copy of a map by Gauld, who later wrote (speaking of himself in the third person):\n\nIn 1776, Gauld was forced to suspend his work in the Dry Tortugas and Florida Keys due to the depredations of American privateers, and he was taken prisoner at the Siege of Pensacola in 1781. Carried off first to Cuba and then to New York.\n\nHe was later repatriated to Britain, and died shortly afterwards in London.\n\nHe is buried at the cemetery of Whitefield's Tabernacle, Tottenham Court Road, London. His memorial, of plain Portland stone, reads: \"In memory of George Gauld, A.M. Surveyor of the Coasts of Florida &c. Who was born at Ardbrack in the parish of Botriphny (now known as Drummuir), Banffshire, North Britain; and educated at King's College, Aberdeen. \"A man of real abilities without affection, a sincere friend without flattery, and religious without hypocrisy or superstition\". He died at London on 8th June 1782, aged 50 years. Psalm XXX verse 37. \"\"Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright; for the end of that man is peace\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17031152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17031152", "title": "Hedu kä misi", "text": "Hedu kä misi\n\nHedu or Hedu kä misi (literally, \"sky layer\") is the Ya̧nomamö heaven and in the Ya̧nomamö cosmos the second highest of four layers. The top face of \"Hedu\" is like the earth (\"Hei kä misi\") in all ways, containing wildlife, plants and gardens, but instead of living humans the Ya̧nomamö believe it to be the residence of the dead. The activities of humans in \"Hedu\", like the environment there, resembles life on earth in most respects, and the dead eat, hunt, copulate and practice witchcraft, just as living people do.\n\nThe bottom face of \"Hedu\" is visible from the mortal ground. All celestial bodies, the sun and the moon, the planets and stars, are attached to it and on it chart a regular east to west path.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23812245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23812245", "title": "Inagua National Park", "text": "Inagua National Park\n\nInagua National Park is a national park on the island of Great Inagua in The Bahamas. It was established in 1965 and has an area of .\nFrom as far back as 1904 there was rising concern about the West Indian flamingo populations. During the 1960s, the Bahamas National Trust formed the Inagua National Park, which is where the world's largest breeding colony of West Indian flamingoes can be found. Forty years ago this flamingo species made a comeback from the brink of extinction to a colony of over 50,000 birds. The park has contributed to increasing bird populations in nearby islands such as Mayaguana, Acklins, Crooked Island, Cuba, and Andros. In 1997 the park was designated a wetland of international importance. It is also known as a bird watchers' paradise as it was designated an Important Bird Area.\n\nThe park encloses all of Lake Rosa, the largest salt-water lake in the Bahamas.\n"}
{"id": "56168252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56168252", "title": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (P)", "text": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (P)\n\nThis page lists Sri Lanka-related articles with titles beginning with an alphabet letter P.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32441830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32441830", "title": "J C Slaughter Falls", "text": "J C Slaughter Falls\n\nThe J C Slaughter Falls is a cascade waterfall on the Ithaca Creek located approximately west of the Brisbane central business district in Queensland, Australia.\n\nThe falls are situated within Mount Coot-tha Forest park, where there is a picnic area and parking area.\n\nThe Mount Coot-tha summit track travels from the J C Slaughter Falls Picnic Area through open eucalypt forest. The grade is steep over short sections. Mount Coot-tha Lookout offers sweeping views of the city, Moreton Bay, Stradbroke Island and the southern ranges. The track is classified as an easy walk and takes about one hour and is return in distance. Mount Coot-tha Forest is west of Brisbane Central Business District. Access is via Sir Samuel Griffith Drive or Gap Creek Road, Mount Coot-tha.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4459704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4459704", "title": "Kinyeti", "text": "Kinyeti\n\nMount Kinyeti is the highest peak in South Sudan. It is located in the Imatong Mountains in Ikwoto County of Imatong State state, near the Ugandan border. It was earlier located in Eastern Equatoria before the reorganisation of states. Kinyeti has an elevation of above sea level.\nThe group of high mountains that contain Kinyeti, extending to the border with Uganda, are sometimes called the Lomariti or Lolobai mountains.\n\nThe lower parts of the mountain were covered with lush forest.\nThese are the most northern forests of the East African montane forest ecoregion.\nThe summit is rocky, with montane grassland and scattered, low ericaceous scrubs, low subshrub and herbs in rock crevices.\nOne of the first Europeans to visit the mountain was the botanist Thomas Ford Chipp, who discovered \"Coreopsis Chippii\" near the summit.\n"}
{"id": "47659173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47659173", "title": "List of Asian countries by area", "text": "List of Asian countries by area\n\nBelow is a list of all the Asian countries, in order of geographical area. Asia's total geographical area is 44,579,000 km².\n\nNote: Some of these countries are transcontinental or have territory located somewhere other than Asia. These countries are marked with an asterisk (*).\n\n"}
{"id": "50014197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50014197", "title": "List of Members of the International Hydrographic Organization", "text": "List of Members of the International Hydrographic Organization\n\nA hydrographic office is an organization which is devoted to acquiring and publishing hydrographic information.\n\nThe International Hydrographic Organization comprises (as of June 2018) 89 Member States, three of these are suspended because of their lapsed annual financial contributions The IHO identifies its representative member organisations as the respective national hydrographic offices, although the member organisations of some countries are part of wider maritime or other administrations covering a larger range of tasks (for example, oceanography, transport, maritime regulation).\nIn some nations (for example, the UK and France) the hydrographic offices are sub-organisations of the country's Ministry of Defence or the navy, in others they are civilian organisations.\n\nHistorically, the main tasks of national hydrographic offices were the acquisition of hydrographic information, including through undertaking hydrographic surveys, and the subsequent publication of nautical charts.\n\nBesides nautical charts, many hydrographic offices publish a body of books and periodicals that are collectively known as nautical publications. The most important of these are:\n\nHydrographic organizations may also be involved in services such as:\n\nIn the development of hydrographic services, shipping organizations played a part, but the major players were the naval powers. Recognizing hydrographic information was a military advantage these naval organizations, usually under the direction of a \"Hydrographer\" utilized the expertise of naval officers in collecting hydrographic data that was incorporated into the navy's collection. In order to distribute the processed information (charts, directions, notices, and such) these organizations often developed specialized printing capabilities.\n\n\nMembership suspended from 07/1983\nMembership suspended from 01/01/2013\n\nThe Argentine Naval Hydrographic Service was established in 1879.\n\nHydrographic tasks in Australian waters were performed by the United Kingdom's Royal Navy since the 19th century. In 1920 the Australian Hydrographic Service was formed as a part of the Royal Australian Navy.\n\nHydrographic tasks in Brazilian waters were performed by the since 02/02/1876.\n\nStarting in 1883, the \"Georgian Bay Survey\" was responsible for hydrographic surveying of Georgian Bay and Lake Huron. Its geographic area of responsibility increased and in 1904 the name was changed to the \"Hydrographic Survey of Canada.\" The current name Canadian Hydrographic Service (CHS) was adopted in 1928.\n\nIn 1951, Canada became a State Member of the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) and the Hydrographer-General of Canada (formerly known as the Dominion Hydrographer) is Canada's representative.\n\nToday, the mandate of CHS is found in the Canada Oceans Act, the Canada Shipping Act (Charts and Publications Regulations) and the Navigable Waters Protection Act.\n\nWith its headquarters office located in Ottawa, Ontario there are regional offices in Sidney (British Columbia), Burlington (Ontario), Mont-Joli (Quebec), Halifax (Nova Scotia), and a branch office in St. John’s Newfoundland. CHS has 300 staff across the country.\n\nThe national chart folio consists of 950 paper charts, 541 S-57 vector Electronic Navigation Charts and 651 raster charts in the BSB format. CHS produces and maintains seven volumes of Tides and Water Levels books, 25 Sailing Directions books, and prints and distributes a number of publications such as the Annual Notices to Mariners and Radio Aids to Marine Navigation.\n\nIn addition to significant hydrographic data holdings (single & multibeam), CHS operates 78 permanent water level stations, a real time water level and forecast system in the St. Lawrence River, and participates in the operation of Atlantic & Pacific tsunami warning systems.\n\nCHS is directly responsible for the sales and distribution of all its products, in paper and digital form. A network of 850 dealers (domestic and international) distributes CHS paper and digital products. Products and data are also made available to Value Added Resellers, under licence.\n\nSince 1874, the Navy's Hydrographic and Oceanographic Service (\"SHOA\", as acronym of \"Servicio Hidrográfico y Oceanográfico de la Armada\") has been the Chilean official authority on drawing and publishing nautical charts of the South Pacific Ocean for Military and Civil navigation.\nThis institution is also the main authority on controlling the official hour of the country.\n\nIn Denmark (including Greenland and the Faroe Islands), hydrographic surveying and charting is conducted by \"Kort & Matrikelstyrelsen\" (KMS), a division of the Ministry of Environment.\n\nIn France, the first official organization, the French Dépôt des Cartes, Plans, Journaux et Mémoires Relatifs à la Navigation, was formed in 1720.\n\nToday, the SHOM is the official French hydrographic office, it stands for 'Service Hydrographique et Océanographique de la Marine' and means Naval Hydrographic and Oceanographic Service.\n\nThe \"Bundesamt für Seeschiffahrt und Hydrographie\" (BSH) is the German federal hydrographic office. Its offices are located in Hamburg and Rostock. The BSH is responsible for a wide variety of services, among them hydrographic surveys, nautical publications, ship registration, testing and approval of technical equipment, oceanographic research, development of nautical information systems, and maritime pollution surveillance. The BSH runs six ships for survey and research purposes.\n\nIn 1945 the tasks of various predecessor organisations (among them the German Navy's hydrographic service, the Wilhelmshaven maritime observatory, and the \"Deutsche Seewarte\" under Georg von Neumayer) were concentrated in the newly created \"Deutsches Hydrographisches Institut\" (DHI) in Hamburg. In 1990 the DHI and the corresponding East German organisation, the \"Seehydrographische Dienst der DDR\" in Rostock were integrated to form the BSH in its present form.\n\nThe Hellenic Navy Hydrographic Service (HNHS, ), an independent service of the Hellenic Navy General Staff, is responsible for hydrographic surveying and production and sale of charts. The first naval hydrographic office was created in 1905 and its first mission was the hydrographic survey of Maliakos Gulf. Its first nautical chart was issued in 1909 and in 1919 the Hellenic Navy became a founding member of the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO). The hydrographic office evolved into the independent naval Hydrographic Service in 1921. Today the HNHS operates three naval hydrographic vessels: \"HS OS Nautilos\" (A-478), \"HS OS Pytheas\" (A-474) and \"HS Stravon\" (A-476).\n\nThe Hong Kong Hydrographic Office is responsible for hydrographic surveying and production of nautical charts covering the waters of Hong Kong. It also produced electronic navigational charts and made available the prediction of tidal stream digitally * on the internet.\n\nThe Indian Naval Hydro-graphic Department (INHD) headed by Chief Hydrographer to the Government of India is an Indian Government agency responsible for hydro-graphic surveys and nautical charting in India. It operates a fleet of eight oceangoing conventional hull survey vessels and one large catamaran hull vessel INS Makar (J31) of the Alcock Ashdown Class, with five more of the class due to be commissioned soon.\n\nThe Indian Marine Survey Department was established at Calcutta in 1874, which became a part of the Royal Indian Marine in 1882. The Hydrographic Department of the Indian Navy derives its origin from the charting activities of the British East India Company, way back in the 17th century. John and Samuel Thornton, Hydrographers to the East India Company compiled the first chart and Sailing Directions for the Indian Ocean in 1703. During the next two centuries, the captains of the ships of the East India Company went on to pioneer the charting of the Eastern seas extending from Red Sea to Persian Gulf, Arabian Sea, across the Indian Ocean right up to the China Seas.\n\nAfter Indias independence from the United Kingdom, the Marine Survey Office was shifted to Dehradun on 1 June 1954 and was renamed as the Naval Hydrographic Office. The Naval Hydrographic Office was renamed in 1997 as the National Hydrographic Office in recognition of its national stature and increasing international role.\n\nThe Dienst der Hydrografie has been part of the predecessor of the Royal Netherlands Navy since 8 January 1488.\n\nLINZ Hydrographic Service are responsible for hydrographic surveying, production of nautical charts, and provision of tidal information covering the waters of New Zealand. Nautical charts can no longer be purchased directly from LINZ but must be purchased from Bluestar Group or from an authorized agent.\n\nThe *Norwegian Hydrographic Service is responsible for hydrographic surveying and production of nautical charts covering the waters of Norway. Also operates the Primar ENC Service\n\nThe Republic of Ireland is actively undertaking the largest civilian seabed mapping programme in the world, as a joint venture by the Marine Institute and the Geological Survey of Ireland. Total mapping coverage of the INSS to end of 2005 was 432,000 km² and taken along with an earlier DCENR Petroleum Affairs Division, over 81% of the Irish designated seabed area (at end 2005) has been mapped. The INtegrated Mapping FOr the Sustainable Development of Ireland’s MArine Resource (INFOMAR) programme is a successor to the Irish National Seabed Survey (INSS) and concentrates on creating a range of integrated mapping products of the physical, chemical and biological features of the seabed in the near-shore area. The programme is being funded by the Irish Government through the Department of Communications, Energy and Natural Resources as part of the National Development Plan, 2007 – 2013 [11]. Data are passed on to the United Kingdom Hydrographic Office (UKHO) for subsequent production of nautical charts.\n\nThe Russian Hydrographic Office was founded in 1777 by the Admiralty Board of the Russian Empire. The hydrographic service in Russia has been historically attached to the Russian Navy and the agents and supervisors of hydrographic works have been largely naval officers since it was established. Having operated under different names along its history, the Russian Hydrographic Service is one of the first hydrographic offices in the world.\n\n\"Sjöfartsverket\", Swedish Maritime Administration, includes the Swedish national hydrographic organisation. Established in 1956 and governed by the Ministry of Industry, Employment and Communications, Sjöfartsverket is responsible for most aspects of safe navigation in Sweden. This includes maintenance and marking of fairways, surveying and charting Swedish waters, pilotage, search-and-rescue (in cooperation with other organisations), ice-breaking, and safety inspections.\n\nThe United Kingdom has a long hydrographic history officially begun with the 1683 appointment of Captain Grenville Collins as Hydrographer to the King. With the Royal Navy dominating the seas hydrography grew to a worldwide hydrographic activity. Royal Navy charts and the related surveys were reputedly officially started as a result of the loss of Admiral Sir Cloudesley Shovell on an uncharted reef off the Scilly Isles which happened in October 1707 (see main article Scilly naval disaster of 1707). The office of Hydrographer of the Navy was created in 1795. \nThe British tradition of hydrographic surveys extended to the nations with a common legacy in the Empire, for example, the Australian Hydrographic Service. The British Admiralty Hydrographic Office ceased to be a naval department and became the United Kingdom Hydrographic Office (located in Taunton, Somerset, near Creechbarrow hill) which continues the legacy within the Ministry of Defence with responsibility for the Admiralty Charts covering almost every navigable stretch of water on Earth. The UKHO also calculates tide tables for the UK. The Royal Navy maintains a number of hydrographic survey vessels \n\nIn contrast to the US government, all of whose creative work is placed into the public domain, British government policy requires agencies such as the UKHO and the Ordnance Survey to be self-funding through the sale of the information they create. The Hydrographic Office therefore actively protects the copyright of all of its data including paper charts, electronic charts, tidal data and other data and has been known to take measures to ensure that its copyrighted information is used appropriately.\n\nIn 2013 the UKHO added an important new service for users of its paper charts by allowing its authorized agents to Print on Demand most paper charts.\n\nUKHO attracted worldwide attention in February 2005 when it published in-depth pictures of the ocean floor in the vicinity of the Indian Ocean tsunami disaster of 26 December 2004.\n\nIn the United States, the Survey of the Coast (America's first scientific agency) was established through an 1807 Congressional resolution and signed into law by President Jefferson. It subsequently became the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey in 1878, and incorporated the Coast and Geodetic Survey Corp in 1917. (Surveyors who were commissioned officers could not be shot as spies if captured during time of war.) The U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey was eventually incorporated into the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) when it was formed in 1970. NOAA's Office of Coast Survey is the national Hydrographic Office of the United States.\n\nNon-domestic hydrographic and bathymetric surveys are conducted by the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office, which started with the establishment of the Depot of Charts and Instruments in 1830 that by 1854 was designated the U.S. Naval Observatory and Hydrographical Office. The hydrographic portion became the U.S. Naval Hydrographic Office under the Hydrographer of the Navy, appointed from uniformed personnel from 1870 through 1961. With the popularization of oceanography in the early 1960s (partly due to President John F. Kennedy's interest), the name was changed to the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office in 1962. That office, as a matter of historical and semantic interest, and the U.S. Naval Observatory are still part of the command overseen by the \"Oceanographer of the Navy,\" with headquarters at the Naval Observatory. In 2001, the position of \"Hydographer of the Navy\" was re-established.\n\nIn 1807, the United States created the United States Survey of the Coast, the first United States Government scientific agency, giving it the responsibility for hydrographic surveys of the waters of the United States. Its surveying activities did not begin until 1816 and then were suspended completely when the United States Army and United States Navy were given the responsibility for surveys in 1818. Surveying responsibility returned to the Survey of the Coast in 1832, and it conducted the first official hydrographic survey in U.S. history in 1834. It was renamed the United States Coast Survey in 1836.\n\nOver time, the Coast Survey accumulated a small fleet of ships to employ in surveying work. In 1871, the Coast Survey was given the responsibility of conducting geodetic surveys in the interior of the United States, and in 1878 it was renamed the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. In 1959, the Coast and Geodetic Survey was given the responsibility for U.S. Government hydrographic surveying activities worldwide.\n\nIn 1965, the Coast and Geodetic Survey was subordinated to the new Environmental Science Services Administration (ESSA), although it retained its separate identity. On 3 October 1970, ESSA was expanded and reorganized to become the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and at that time a number of U.S. Government scientific agencies, including the Coast and Geodetic Survey, merged and were reorganized to form NOAA. Among other things, NOAA took over the Coast and Geodetic Surveys responsibility for hydrographic surveys, and the Coast and Geodetic Surveys fleet merged with those of other U.S. government agencies to form the NOAA fleet, which includes survey ships that carry out hydrographic surveys.\nIn the United States, statutory authority for hydrographic surveys of territorial waters and the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) lies with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). NOAA hydrographic surveys are administered by the National Ocean Service and carried out by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps and federal government civilians. The NOAA fleet survey vessels are based at the Atlantic Marine Center in Norfolk, Virginia, and the Pacific Marine Center in Seattle, Washington. The organic survey assets are supplemented by other agencies and contract surveys in order to survey the large areas – including classified as critical alone, according to the \"NOAA Hydrographic Survey Priorities (NHSP) - East Coast\" – that fall under NOAAs responsibility. The 2009 status shows out of \"Navigationally Significant\" were completed. – that fall under NOAAs responsibility. The NOAA Office of Coast Surveys Hydrographic Surveys Division estimates it has awarded approximately $250 million in contracts for hydrographic surveying and related support since 1994.\n\nFor inland surface waters such as rivers, streams, and inland lakes the United States Geological Survey (USGS) has national responsibility. USGS coordinates survey data collection and publishes the National Hydrography Dataset that is designed to be used with geographic information systems (GIS). Other federal agencies such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service use these data and, along with state and local hydrographic collection organizations, contribute to the national hydrographic data base. The Environmental Protection Agency conducts or contracts for surveys on projects such as the GE/Hudson River Superfund site. The United States Coast Guard also conducts hydrographic survey operations, particularly in the polar regions.\n\nThe National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) oversees the charting of international waters for United States Department of Defense purposes. The United States Navys Naval Oceanographic Office conducts many of these oceanic surveys. The United States Army Corps of Engineers conducts hydrographic surveys supporting its responsibility for the major waterway projects that include navigation and flood control. Hydrographic data from those surveys is published by districts. Such data is incorporated into both NOAA and NGA products and the Corps engages in efforts to improve hydrographic collection methods. Military combat organizations such as the U.S. Navys SEALs and military engineering units have specialized hydrographic reconnaissance survey capabilities.\n\nThe NOAA Office of Coast Survey Web page (Coast Survey Partners) offers a useful list and summary of major hydrographic activities, government and private, with links to the Web sites of NOAAs partners.\n\nHydrographic tasks in uruguayan waters have been performed by the SOHMA since 1916.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32923943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32923943", "title": "List of foods named after places", "text": "List of foods named after places\n\nLists of foods named after places have been compiled by writers, sometimes on travel websites or food-oriented websites, as well as in books.\n\nSince all of these names are words derived from place names, they are all toponyms. This article covers English language food toponyms which may have originated in English or other languages.\n\nAccording to Delish.com, \"[T]here's a rich history of naming foods after cities, towns, countries, and even the moon.\"\n\nThe following foods and drinks were named after places. Each non-obvious etymology is supported by a reference on the linked Wikipedia page. Food names are listed by country of the origin of the word, not necessarily where the food originated or was thought to have originated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11357491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11357491", "title": "List of mammals of Saint Helena", "text": "List of mammals of Saint Helena\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in Saint Helena. These are the mammal species in Saint Helena, of which 0 are critically endangered, 0 are endangered, 1 is vulnerable, and 0 are near-threatened.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\nThere are over 260 species of carnivorans, the majority of which feed primarily on meat. They have a characteristic skull shape and dentition. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "34317560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34317560", "title": "List of museums in Tonga", "text": "List of museums in Tonga\n\nThis is a list of museums in Tonga.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38474433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38474433", "title": "List of schools in Bermuda", "text": "List of schools in Bermuda\n\nThis is a list of schools in Bermuda. It includes aided schools, maintained schools and private schools.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2393292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393292", "title": "Location", "text": "Location\n\nThe terms location and place in geography are used to identify a point or an area on the Earth's surface or elsewhere. The term \"location\" generally implies a higher degree of certainty than \"place\", the latter often indicating an entity with an ambiguous boundary, relying more on human or social attributes of place identity and sense of place than on geometry.\n\nA relative location, or situation, is described as a displacement from another site. An example is \"3 miles northwest of Seattle\".\n\nA location, settlement, or populated place is likely to have a well-defined name but a boundary which is not well defined in varies by context. London, for instance, has a legal boundary, but this is unlikely to completely match with general usage. An area within a town, such as Covent Garden in London, also almost always has some ambiguity as to its extent.\n\nAn absolute location is designated using a specific pairing of latitude and longitude in a Cartesian coordinate grid — for example, a Spherical coordinate system or an ellipsoid-based system such as the World Geodetic System — or similar methods. For instance, the position of Lake Maracaibo in Venezuela can be expressed approximately in the WGS84 coordinate system as the location 9.80°N (latitude), 71.56°W (longitude). It is, however, just one way. Alternative ways can be seen in this Geo Hack link: .\n\n\"Absolute location\", however, is a term with little real meaning, since any location must be expressed relative to something else. For example, longitude is the number of degrees east or west of the Prime Meridian, a line arbitrarily chosen to pass through Greenwich, London. Similarly, latitude is the number of degrees north or south of the Equator. Because latitude and longitude are expressed \"relative\" to these lines, a position expressed in latitude and longitude is actually a relative location.\n\n"}
{"id": "249511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249511", "title": "M3 motorway (Great Britain)", "text": "M3 motorway (Great Britain)\n\nThe M3 is a motorway that runs from Sunbury-on-Thames, Surrey, to Southampton, Hampshire, a distance of approximately . Via its feeder the A316, the route is one of five roads of dual carriageway width or greater into the southern half of London. It also provides access to major towns and cities along its route, principally the Aldershot Urban Area, Basingstoke, Winchester and Southampton. \n\nIt was constructed as a dual three-lane motorway except for its two-lane section between Junctions 8 (A303) and 9. The motorway was opened in phases, ranging from Lightwater/Bagshot to Popham in 1971 to Winchester to Otterbourne Hill in 1995. The latter stages attracted opposition from environmental campaigns across Britain due to its large cutting through wooded Twyford Down; numerous road protests were held which delayed its opening. Similar protests were avoided on the near-parallel A3 by construction of the Hindhead Tunnel. Since completion, the motorway has been an artery to the west and mid sections of the South Coast and Isle of Wight including for tourism. The major settlements nearest to the motorway are served by a railway also used for commuting but are relatively dispersed. Traffic on the M3 sees delays and congestion on its busiest sections near commuting hotspots and during holiday periods. From Chertsey to Fleet the road was in 2017 upgraded to a Smart Motorway, turning the hard shoulder into a permanent fourth lane with emergency refuge lay-bys. \n\nOriginally approved as the \"London to Basingstoke Motorway\" with delays over funding for an extension to Southampton the road was built to relieve two single carriageway trunk roads that were congested.\n\nIn 1967, sections of the A33 road from Popham, Hampshire, to a northeastern point of the Winchester Bypass were widened to dual carriageways; this only partially alleviated growing congestion, especially in Winchester, which led to the southern phase gaining approval.\n\nThe eastern section, from Sunbury-on-Thames in Surrey to Popham near Basingstoke opened in sections: first the Hampshire section in 1971, and then the Surrey section in 1974. The cost for this first phase was £46m. The completed road acts as a continuation of the A316 Country Way, an express three-lane road from Apex Corner, Hanworth, in Greater London to Sunbury-on-Thames. \n\nThe section is one of five routes into the southern half of London which reach Inner London with at least a dual-carriageway of dual-direction road, the others being the A3 (M), the A30/A4, the M20 and A2, however approximately one mile before reaching Inner London is combined with the routes of the A30 and M4 approaches.\n\nA first public inquiry for the \"M3 London to Basingstoke Motorway: Popham to Compton extension\" centred on the section passing Winchester, and was held in 1971, after which the ministry was instructed to reconsider and reconsult on the proposals. A second public inquiry was held in 1976–77. The earlier decision to route the motorway through or alongside the water meadows between St Catherine’s Hill and the compact cathedral city was reopened, and during the year-long inquiry the headmaster of Winchester College was forcibly ejected along with others for causing a disturbance.\n\nThe scope of the M3 extension was reduced to defer the difficult decision about the section around Winchester and it was built in two sections (from 'Popham to Bridget's Farm' and from 'Bridget's Farm to Bar End') in 1995. When this opened, the temporary junction to the A33 parallel route was removed.\n\nThe section of the M3 from near Junction 12 (Eastleigh and Chandler's Ford) to the last, Junction 14 for the M27 replaced part of the A33 road which was upgraded to motorway standard and opened in 1991.\n\nIn 2008 the busiest section of the motorway, at Chandler's Ford, carried a daily average of around 130,000 vehicles.\n\nThe southern section starts as a continuation of a single-lane avenue, Bassett Avenue and The Avenue in the City of Southampton as the M27 motorway provides alternative routes from other parts of the city, particularly its waterfront and downtown peak-hour accessway, the M271 motorway and Mountbatten Way providing dual to three lane highways starting at the northwest of the city.\n\nIts service station was envisaged at Basingstoke upon the motorway's completion but not built – superseded by one just north of Fleet and another north of Winchester.\nPlans for a Basingstoke Services were again published in November 2017 \n\nAn additional junction, numbered 4A, opened in April 1992 for Fleet.\n\nThe M3 starts at Sunbury-on-Thames in Surrey on the edge of South West London as the continuation of the A316 which has three lanes each way from Hanworth in the London Borough of Hounslow, and two from Chiswick. The motorway after its start turns more west-southwest, crosses the River Thames on the M3 Chertsey Bridge to the north of Chertsey and then has its second junction, at the M25 motorway, before continuing through the gorse, bogs and heather of the Surrey Heath. Its third junction is for Camberley, Bagshot, Bracknell, Ascot and Worplesdon. From Junction 4 it bisects the northern Blackwater Valley conurbation then has its latest junction for Fleet and nearby early 21st century expanded/new villages, it crosses the South West Main Line, before skirting Old Basing and Basingstoke to its north. Turning south west again, it passes Popham and, just before reaching Junction 8, where one lane becomes the A303 road, the motorway continues as a dual two lane road through open countryside and Micheldever Wood until it reaches the north of Winchester.\n\nTaking over the \"Winchester Bypass\" the M3 resumes to three lanes each way at Junction 9, continues directly south and then takes a small curve around the east of the city running through a deep cutting in Twyford Down and then proceeding south west again, crossing the South West Main Line a second time alongside the River Itchen and through the Eastleigh urban-suburban area before crossing the Eastleigh to Romsey railway line and ending at the Chilworth Roundabout on the edge of Southampton.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMany accidents have happened on this road calling its safety into question. In Sept 2017 alone there have been 4 serious / fatal accidents.\n\nData from driver location signs are used to provide distance and carriageway identification information.\n\n!scope=col|miles\n!scope=col|km\n!scope=col abbr=\"Northeastbound\"|North-east bound exits (B carriageway)\n!scope=col|Junction\n!scope=col abbr=\"Southwestbound\"|South-west bound exits (A carriageway)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1208835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1208835", "title": "Metes and bounds", "text": "Metes and bounds\n\nMetes and bounds is a system or method of describing land, real property (in contrast to personal property) or real estate. Newer systems include rectangular (government survey), lot and block (recorded plat) and Torrens (used in Hawaii, California , Colorado, Australia, New Zealand and Canada). The system has been used in England for many centuries, and is still used there in the definition of general boundaries. The system is also used in the Canadian province of Ontario. By custom, it was applied in the original Thirteen Colonies that became the United States, and in many other land jurisdictions based on English common law.\n\nTypically the system uses physical features of the local geography, along with directions and distances, to define and describe the boundaries of a parcel of land. The boundaries are described in a running prose style, working around the parcel in sequence, from a point of beginning, returning to the same point; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds. It may include references to other adjoining parcels (and their owners), and it, in turn, could also be referred to in later surveys. At the time the description is compiled, it may have been marked on the ground with permanent monuments placed where there were no suitable natural monuments.\nSurveying has been a subjective process open to interpretation by the person or persons producing the document as well as open discussion to the persons abiding by the document. The variables that originally defined the \"bounds\" need to be converted to metes by more modern methods. Today the word \"art\" is being used when discussing surveying as in Surveying is an \"Art\" leaving much to surveyor opinion to \"update\" the existing deed. In most areas, urban deeds have defined the boundary lines sufficiently to buy and sell land with sufficient clarity however as one moves further into larger parcels the subjectivity grows. \n\n\nA typical description for a small parcel of land would be: \"beginning with a corner at the intersection of two stone walls near an apple tree on the north side of Muddy Creek road one mile above the junction of Muddy and Indian Creeks, north for 150 rods to the end of the stone wall bordering the road, then northwest along a line to a large standing rock on the corner of the property now or formerly belonging to John Smith, thence west 150 rods to the corner of a barn near a large oak tree, thence south to Muddy Creek road, thence down the side of the creek road to the starting point.\"\n\nThe sequence begins with an identified corner serving as benchmark. The description then gives distance, direction and various boundary descriptions as if one were walking the bounds pacing off the distance to the next corner where there is a change of direction. Where watercourses form part of the bounds their meander is generally taken as a straight line between the established corners and their monuments.\n\nIn many deeds, the direction is described not by azimuth (a clockwise degree measure out of 360 degrees), but instead by bearing (a direction north or south followed by a degree measure out of 90 degrees and another direction west or east). For example, such a bearing might be listed as \"N 42°35' W\", which means that the bearing is 42°35' counterclockwise, or west of north.\n\nThis has the advantage of providing the same degree measure regardless of which direction a particular boundary is being followed; the boundary can be traversed in the opposite direction simply by exchanging N for S and E for W. In other words, \"N 42°35' W\" describes the same boundary as \"S 42°35' E\", but is traversed in the opposite direction.\n\nIn most distance measures, especially those in older deeds and where measuring distances over a furlong, boundary lengths are listed in rods or poles instead of feet or meters. Rods and poles are equivalent measures equaling 16.5 feet. There are four rods in one chain. The old English surveyors actually carried chains 66 feet in length with which to measure lengths, as well as poles 16.5 feet long, and many older legal descriptions of real estate in the United States are given in chains and poles.\n\nSome courts have established a list of priorities to resolve inconsistent descriptions of corners. In descending order starting with the most reliable: (1) natural monuments, (2) artificial monuments such as roads and marked or surveyed lines, (3) adjacent tracts or boundaries, (4) courses or directions, (5) distances, and (6) area or quantity.\n\nOnce such a survey is in place, the corners may have to depend on tradition and long use to establish the line along the boundaries between them. In some areas where land was deeded before 1593 the lengths given predate the changes to the length of the furlong and mile by Queen Elizabeth I. In other places references to the official borders of towns, counties, states and even the U.S. may have changed. Compass directions always have to be tied to a table of annual deflections because magnetic north is constantly changing. The description might refer to \"landmarks\" such as the \"large oak tree\" which could die, rot and disappear; or be confused with a different tree that had grown over time. Streams might dry up, meander or change course. Man-made features such as roads, walls, markers or stakes used to mark corners and determine the line of the boundaries between corners may have been moved. As these features move, change and disappear over time, when it comes time to re-establish the corners along the line of these boundaries (for sale, subdivision, or building construction) it can become difficult, even impossible, to determine the original location of the corner. In the metes and bounds system, corners, distance, direction, monuments and bounds are always carried back to the original intent regardless of where they are now. Court cases are sometimes required to settle the matter when it is suspected the corner markers may have been moved.\n\nThese kinds of problems caused the United States to largely replace this system except in the east. Beginning with the Land Ordinance of 1785, it began a transition to the Public Land Survey System (PLSS) used in the central and western states. The eastern, or original states, continue to use the metes and bounds surveys of their founders.\n\nThis system was imported to the original colonies that formed the United States. It is also used in some states that were previously part of one of the Thirteen Colonies, or where land was allocated before 1785. These include West Virginia, Kentucky, Maine, Tennessee and Vermont. Because Texas was an independent republic prior to statehood, its land system is primarily metes and bounds.\n\nElection constituency boundaries continue to be described by the use of metes and bounds, even in jurisdictions where land plats are not otherwise based upon metes and bounds. Such mapping generally uses streets and their intersections to define the boundaries of election districts, wards, precincts, \"inter alia\". \"E.g.\": \"From the intersection of Main Street and John Doe Boulevard, thence north to ABC Drive, thence generally east along the median of ABC Drive to 123rd Street, thence...\"\n\nIn patent law, an application provides background and disclosure necessary to describe an invention, but it is the claims that define the protected aspects. It is therefore said that the claims set out the metes and bounds (see, e.g. in United States patent law, Manual of Patent Examining Procedure § 2173.05(a)) for the protected invention. As a deed might describe a parcel of land, a patent claim carves out systems, methods, etc. that are infringed by something meeting every single one of the claim features. Moreover, an applicant must present an argument for patentability (or, in the United States, an argument against a \"prima facie\" case of non-patentability) based only on features found within the claims. The requirement to clearly define the metes and bounds of a claim is found in United States patent law at least at 35 U.S.C. 112, second paragraph, which states, \"[t]he specification shall conclude with one or more claims particularly pointing out and distinctly claiming the subject matter which the applicant regards as his invention.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "292797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292797", "title": "Mina al Fahal", "text": "Mina al Fahal\n\nMina' al Fahal (, also known as Miana al Fahl, Saih al Malieh, and Saih al-Malih) is a coastal area in the northeast of Oman, near to the country's capital, Muscat. It was renamed from Saih al Maleh as the petroleum processing plant was developed. It is a key area for the country's petroleum operations. Petroleum Development Oman (PDO) is based at Mina al Fahal, and the Oman Refinery Company (ORC) has a 104,000 b/d oil refinery located here. Crude oil and refinery products are loaded onto tankers off Mina Al Fahal by subsea pipeline and SBM (Single Buoy Mooring) Systems. Two of the SBMs are owned by PDO for crude export and the third is owned by SOM (Shell Oman Marketing).\n\n"}
{"id": "7880354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7880354", "title": "Monte Binga", "text": "Monte Binga\n\nMonte Binga is the highest mountain in Mozambique and the second highest mountain in Zimbabwe. It is located on the border between Zimbabwe and Mozambique in the Chimanimani Transfrontier Park in the province of Manica. Its height is 8004 feet (2440m) above sea level \n\nThe mountain is composed of very hard pale grey precambrian quartzite, which underlies all of the Chimanimani Plateau, giving it a desolate rocky appearance. The north-south trending quartzite bedding is upturned near the summit to an angle of about 40 degrees and dips to the east, the foot of the mountain and the Turret Towers range immediately to the south lying on a thrust fault. Consequently, the eastern approach is more gradual, while the western face is steep to sheer in places. The northern face is cut off by a fault and is sheer near the top, changing to a vertical cliff lower down. Approaching from the west, from the Bundi River Valley, there is an ill-defined trail which branches off from the main smugglers trail to Skeleton Pass.\n\nThe climb is arduous and takes about the best part of a day. There are a number of false summits en route.The best path, marked with cairns, climbs south-east then eastward up from the Bundi valley, then swings north-east below the mountain until, at Binga's northern shoulder, swings south-east, climbs the mountain's western face, and, reaching the ridge, swings into a northward scramble up to the beacon: about three hours from the Bundi valley.\n\nThere is little if any water on the approach from the west, nor at the top, but small puddles of water seep from the peat and collect in hollows not far off the summit on the gentler eastern slope. There are no well marked trails from Binga to the east and one must make one's own way, taking care when crossing the steep ravines that lead eastwards.\n\nAt the top the mountain curves into a dome-like prominence. The appearance of the mountain top is bleak and rocky, with an extremely shallow peaty soil supporting only tussocky grass and moss between the lichen-covered hard rock outcrops.\n\nThe views over the Mozambique plain are spectacular. Theoretically, with a telescope it should just be possible to see the Indian Ocean from the peak of Binga on a very clear day looking along an easterly bearing, at a range of 190 kilometres. The mountain is remote from settlements.\n"}
{"id": "24028946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24028946", "title": "Names of Lithuanian places in other languages", "text": "Names of Lithuanian places in other languages\n\nThis page lists some names of places in Lithuania, as they are called in Lithuanian, and as they are called or were formerly called in other languages spoken by ethnic groups which are or have been represented within Lithuanian territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "517360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517360", "title": "Natural Area Code", "text": "Natural Area Code\n\nThe Natural Area Code (or Universal Address) is a proprietary geocode system for identifying an area anywhere on the Earth, or a volume of space anywhere around the Earth. The use of thirty alphanumeric characters instead of only ten digits makes a NAC shorter than its numerical latitude/longitude equivalent. \n\nInstead of numerical longitudes and latitudes, a grid with 30 rows and 30 columns - each cell denoted by the numbers 0-9 and the twenty consonants of the Latin alphabet - is laid over the flattened globe. A NAC cell (or block) can be subdivided repeatedly into smaller NAC grids to yield an arbitrarily small area, subject to the ±1 m limitations of the World Geodetic System (WGS) data of 1984. \n\nA NAC represents an area on the earth—the longer the NAC, the smaller the area (and thereby, location) represented. A ten-character NAC can uniquely specify any building, house, or fixed object in the world. An eight-character NAC specifies an area no larger than 25 metres by 50 metres, while a ten-character NAC cell is no larger than 0.8 metres by 1.6 metres.\n\nUsing a base 30 positional numeral system, NAC uses an alternate method which excludes vowels and avoids potential confusion between \"0\" (zero) and \"O\" (capital \"o\"), and \"1\" (one) and \"I\" (capital \"i\"):\n\nFor example, the ten-character NAC for the centre of the city of Brussels is HBV6R RG77T.\n\nThe full NAC system provides a third coordinate: altitude. This coordinate is the arctangent of the altitude, relative to the Earth's radius, and scaled so that the zero point (000...) is at the centre of the Earth, the midpoint (H00...) is the local radius of the geoid, i.e. the Earth's surface, and the endpoint (ZZZ...) is at infinity.\n\nFor example, the three-dimensional NAC for the centre of Brussels, at ground level, is HBV6R RG77T H0000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33478403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33478403", "title": "Ngelsibel", "text": "Ngelsibel\n\nNgelsibel is an island of Palau.\n"}
{"id": "49619570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49619570", "title": "Oosterhout Formation", "text": "Oosterhout Formation\n\nThe Oosterhout Formation is a geological formation in the subsoil in the central and south area of the Netherlands. The formation was formed during the Pliocene (5.333 million to 2.58 million years BP). The formation was named after the city of Oosterhout in the province of North Brabant.\n\nThe Oosterhout Formation mainly consists of sand, often containing glauconite. In the upper layers, clay is also present. The Oosterhout Formation is usually right on top of the Miocene Breda Formation.\n"}
{"id": "16278819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278819", "title": "Outline of Honduras", "text": "Outline of Honduras\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Honduras:\n\nHonduras – sovereign country located in Central America. Honduras was formerly known as Spanish Honduras to differentiate it from British Honduras (now Belize). The country is bordered to the west by Guatemala, to the southwest by El Salvador, to the southeast by Nicaragua, to the south by the Pacific Ocean at the Gulf of Fonseca, and to the north by the Gulf of Honduras, a large inlet of the Caribbean Sea.\n\n\nGeography of Honduras\n\n\n\nRegions of Honduras\n\nList of ecoregions in Honduras\n\nAdministrative divisions of Honduras\n\nDepartments of Honduras\n\nMunicipalities of Honduras\n\nDemographics of Honduras\n\nPolitics of Honduras\n\n\nGovernment of Honduras\n\n\n\n\nForeign relations of Honduras\n\nInternational organization membership of Honduras\nThe Republic of Honduras is a member of:\n\nLaw of Honduras\n\nMilitary of Honduras\n\nDepartments of Honduras\n\nHistory of Honduras\n\nCulture of Honduras\n\n\nSports in Honduras\n\nEconomy of Honduras\n\nEducation in Honduras\n\nHonduras\n\n"}
{"id": "10712487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10712487", "title": "Polynesian navigation", "text": "Polynesian navigation\n\nTraditional Polynesian navigation was used for thousands of years to make long voyages across thousands of miles of the open Pacific Ocean. Navigators travelled to small inhabited islands using wayfinding techniques and knowledge passed by oral tradition from master to apprentice, often in the form of song. Generally each island maintained a guild of navigators who had very high status; in times of famine or difficulty they could trade for aid or evacuate people to neighboring islands. As of 2014, these traditional navigation methods are still taught in the Polynesian outlier of Taumako Island in the Solomons.\n\nPolynesian navigation used some navigational instruments, which predate and are distinct from the machined metal tools used by European navigators (such as the sextant, first produced in 1730; the sea astrolabe, from around late 15th century; and the marine chronometer, invented in 1761). However, they also relied heavily on close observation of sea sign and a large body of knowledge from oral tradition.\n\nBoth wayfinding techniques and outrigger canoe construction methods have been kept as guild secrets, but in the modern revival of these skills, they are being recorded and published.\n\nBetween about 3000 and 1000 BC speakers of Austronesian languages spread through the islands of Southeast Asia – almost certainly starting out from Taiwan, as tribes whose natives were thought to have previously arrived from mainland South China about 8000 years ago – into the edges of western Micronesia and on into Melanesia. In the archaeological record there are well-defined traces of this expansion which allow the path it took to be followed and dated with a degree of certainty. In the mid-2nd millennium BC a distinctive culture appeared suddenly in north-west Melanesia, in the Bismarck Archipelago, the chain of islands forming a great arch from New Britain to the Admiralty Islands. This culture, known as Lapita, stands out in the Melanesian archeological record, with its large permanent villages on beach terraces along the coasts. Particularly characteristic of the Lapita culture is the making of pottery, including a great many vessels of varied shapes, some distinguished by fine patterns and motifs pressed into the clay. Within a mere three or four centuries between about 1300 and 900 BC, the Lapita culture spread 6000 km further to the east from the Bismarck Archipelago, until it reached as far as Tonga and Samoa. Lapita pottery persisted in places such as Samoa, Tonga, and Fiji for many years after its upbringing to Western and Central Polynesia. However, pottery-making died out in most of Polynesia due to the scarcity of clay on the islands. In this region, the distinctive Polynesian culture developed. The Polynesians are then believed to have spread eastward from the Samoan Islands into the Marquesas, the Society Islands, the Hawaiian Islands and Easter Island; and south to New Zealand. The pattern of settlement also extended to the north of Samoa to the Tuvaluan atolls, with Tuvalu providing a stepping stone to migration into the Polynesian Outlier communities in Melanesia and Micronesia.\n\nThe Polynesians encountered nearly every island within the vast Polynesian Triangle using outrigger canoes or double-hulled canoes. The double-hulled canoes were two large hulls, equal in length, and lashed side by side. The space between the paralleled canoes allowed for storage of food, hunting materials, and nets when embarking on long voyages. Polynesians used strategic and natural navigation aides such as the stars, ocean currents, and wind patterns.\n\nThere are numerous traditional Polynesian devices used for navigating and/or teaching navigation. These include charts, spatial representations of islands and the conditions around them, and navigational instruments, such as those for measuring the elevation of celestial objects. They also include non-physical devices such as songs and stories for memorizing the properties of stars, islands, and navigational routes.\n\nNavigation relies heavily on constant observation and memorization; you must constantly be aware of your surroundings. You cannot simply look up at the stars and know where you are. You are only able to know where you are if you are able to memorize where you have sailed from. The sun was the main guide for voyagers because they could follow its exact points as it rose and set; then, at night time they'd switch to using the stars rising and setting points. With constant observation, comes the knowledge of knowing and remembering the speed of your canoe (when it speeds up and slows down), what direction you are facing, and what time of the day or night it is. In the ancient days, they did not have watches, compasses or speedometers but they had their minds and the ability to memorize their surroundings. When there are no stars because of a cloudy night or during midday, the navigator would use the winds and swells to guide them.\nPolynesian navigators employed a whole range of techniques including use of the stars, the movement of ocean currents and wave patterns, the air and sea interference patterns caused by islands and atolls, the flight of birds, the winds and the weather.\n\nCertain seabirds such as the White tern and Noddy tern feed on fish in the morning and return to rest on land at night time. Navigators use these birds to guide them to land by following where the birds are flying from in the morning and flying toward at night. Birds habits change during nesting season which is another thing navigators must be mindful of when voyaging. Generally speaking, if a navigator can see a large group of birds, that is a much more reliable sign for land than following one, two or a small group of birds.\nHarold Gatty suggested that long-distance Polynesian voyaging followed the seasonal paths of bird migrations. In \"The Raft Book\", a survival guide he wrote for the U.S. military during World War II, Gatty outlined various Polynesian navigation techniques Allied sailors or aviators wrecked at sea could use to find their way to land. There are some references in their oral traditions to the flight of birds and some say that there were range marks onshore pointing to distant islands in line with the West Pacific Flyway. A voyage from Tahiti, the Tuamotus or the Cook Islands to New Zealand might have followed the migration of the long-tailed cuckoo (\"Eudynamys taitensis\") just as the voyage from Tahiti to Hawaii would coincide with the track of the Pacific golden plover (\"Pluvialis fulva\") and the bristle-thighed curlew (\"Numenius tahitiensis\"). It is also believed that Polynesians employed shore-sighting birds as did many seafaring peoples. One theory is that they would have taken a frigatebird (\"Fregata\") with them. These birds refuse to land on the water as their feathers will become waterlogged making it impossible to fly. When the voyagers thought they were close to land they may have released the bird, which would either fly towards land or else return to the canoe.\n\nThe positions of the stars helped guide Polynesians through their voyaging routes. Stars- as opposed to planets are able to hold a steady position year-round. The only thing that changes is the time the star rises which changes seasonally. Polynesian voyagers would follow stars near the horizon whether they were just rising or about to set and they used these specific stars for guidance. These stars were used to set the direction for their canoe up until the point when those stars rise too high and are no longer easy to follow. Once the star they've used to guide them rises too high, they use the next star that rises from the previous stars exact rising point to guide them next. The canoes latitude and the course being followed determines how many stars the navigator will need to get him to his destination.\nFor navigators near the equator celestial navigation is simplified since the whole celestial sphere is exposed. Any star that passes the zenith (overhead) is on the celestial equator, the basis of the equatorial coordinate system. Each star has a specific declination, and when they rise or set, they give a bearing for navigation. Stars are learned by compass point, making a star compass (star compasses list ~150 stars, in some systems). A simplified compass might list only a couple of dozen stars. For example, in the Caroline Islands Mau Piailug taught natural navigation using a star compass diagrammed here. The development of \"sidereal compasses\" has been studied and theorized to have developed from an ancient pelorus.\n\nThe Polynesians also took measurements of stellar elevation to determine their latitude. The latitudes of specific islands were also known, and the technique of \"sailing down the latitude\" was used.\n\nThe Polynesians also use wave and swell formations to navigate. Many of the habitable areas of the Pacific Ocean are groups of islands (or atolls) in chains hundreds of kilometers long. Island chains have predictable effects on waves and on currents. Navigators who lived within a group of islands would learn the effect various islands had on their shape, direction, and motion and would have been able to correct their path in accordance with the changes they perceived. When they arrived in the vicinity of a chain of islands they were unfamiliar with, they may have been able to transfer their experience and deduce that they were nearing a group of islands. Once they had arrived fairly close to a destination island, they would have been able to pinpoint its location by sightings of land-based birds, certain cloud formations, as well as the reflections shallow water made on the undersides of clouds. It is thought that the Polynesian navigators may have measured the time it took to sail between islands in \"canoe-days\" or a similar type of expression.\nThe energy that is transferred from the wind to the sea are wind waves. The waves that are created when the energy travels down away from the source area (like ripples) are known as swell. When the winds are strong at the source area, the swell is larger. The longer the wind blows, the longer the swell lasts. Because the swells of the ocean can remain consistent for days, navigators relied on them to carry their canoe in a straight line from one house on the star compass to a house of the same name on the opposite side of the horizon. Navigators were not always able to see stars; because of this, they relied on the swells of the ocean. Swell patterns are a much more reliable method of navigation than the actual waves which are determined by the local winds. Swells move in a straight direction which makes it easier for the navigator to determine whether the canoe is heading in the correct direction.\n\nOn his first voyage of Pacific exploration, Captain James Cook had the services of a Polynesian navigator, Tupaia, who drew a chart of the islands within a radius (to the north and west) of his home island of Ra'iatea. Tupaia had knowledge of 130 islands and named 74 on his chart. Tupaia had navigated from Ra'iatea in short voyages to 13 islands. He had not visited western Polynesia, as since his grandfather's time the extent of voyaging by Raiateans had diminished to the islands of eastern Polynesia. His grandfather and father had passed to Tupaia the knowledge as to the location of the major islands of western Polynesia and the navigation information necessary to voyage to Fiji, Samoa and Tonga. Tupaia was hired by Joseph Banks, the ship's naturalist, who wrote that Cook ignored Tupaia's chart and his skills as a navigator.\n\nThere is academic debate on the furthest southern extent of Polynesian expansion.\n\nThere is material evidence of Polynesian visits to some of the subantarctic islands to the south of New Zealand, which are outside Polynesia proper. Remains of a Polynesian settlement dating back to the 13th century were found on Enderby Island in the Auckland Islands. Descriptions of a shard of early Polynesian pottery buried on the Antipodes Islands are unsubstantiated, and the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa, where it was supposedly stored, has stated that \"The Museum has not been able to locate such a shard in its collection, and the original reference to the object in the Museum's collection documentation indicates no reference to Polynesian influences.\" \n\nOral history describes Ui-te-Rangiora, around the year 650, leading a fleet of Waka Tīwai south until they reached, \"\"a place of bitter cold where rock-like structures rose from a solid sea\".\" The brief description might match the Ross Ice Shelf or possibly the Antarctic mainland, but may be a description of icebergs surrounded by sea Ice found in the Southern Ocean. The account also describes snow.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, Thor Heyerdahl proposed a new theory of Polynesian origins (one which did not win general acceptance), arguing that the Polynesians had migrated from South America on balsa-log boats.\n\nThe presence in the Cook Islands of sweet potato that is a plant native to the Americas (called \"kūmara\" in Māori), which have been radiocarbon-dated to 1000 CE, has been cited as evidence that Americans could have traveled to Oceania. The current thinking is that sweet potato was brought to central Polynesia circa 700 CE and spread across Polynesia from there, possibly by Polynesians who had traveled to South America and back. An alternative explanation posits biological dispersal; plants and/or seeds could float across the Pacific without any human contact.\n\nA 2007 study published in the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" examined chicken bones at El Arenal near the Arauco Peninsula, Arauco Province, Chile. The results suggested Oceania-to-America contact. Chickens originated in southern Asia and the \"Araucana\" breed of Chile was thought to have been brought by Spaniards around 1500. However, the bones found in Chile were radiocarbon-dated to between 1304 and 1424, well before the documented arrival of the Spanish. DNA sequences taken were exact matches to those of chickens from the same period in American Samoa and Tonga, both over 5000 miles (8000 kilometers) away from Chile. The genetic sequences were also similar to those found in Hawaii and Easter Island, the closest island at only 2500 miles (4000 kilometers), and unlike any breed of European chicken.\nAlthough this initial report suggested a Polynesian pre-Columbian origin a later report looking at the same specimens concluded:\n\nA published, apparently pre-Columbian, Chilean specimen and six pre-European Polynesian specimens also cluster with the same European/Indian subcontinental/Southeast Asian sequences, providing no support for a Polynesian introduction of chickens to South America. In contrast, sequences from two archaeological sites on Easter Island group with an uncommon haplogroup from Indonesia, Japan, and China and may represent a genetic signature of an early Polynesian dispersal. Modeling of the potential marine carbon contribution to the Chilean archaeological specimen casts further doubt on claims for pre-Columbian chickens, and definitive proof will require further analyses of ancient DNA sequences and radiocarbon and stable isotope data from archaeological excavations within both Chile and Polynesia.\n\nHowever, in a later study, the original authors extended and elaborated their findings, concluding:\n\nThis comprehensive approach demonstrates that the examination of modern chicken DNA sequences does not contribute to our understanding of the origins of Chile’s earliest chickens. Interpretations based on poorly sourced and documented modern chicken populations, divorced from the archaeological and historical evidence, do not withstand scrutiny. Instead, this expanded account will confirm the pre-Columbian age of the El Arenal remains and lend support to our original hypothesis that their appearance in South America is most likely due to Polynesian contact with the Americas in prehistory.\nIn the last 20 years, the dates and anatomical features of human remains found in Mexico and South America have led some archaeologists to propose that those regions were first populated by people who crossed the Pacific several millennia before the Ice Age migrations; according to this theory, these would have been either eliminated or absorbed by the Siberian immigrants. However, current archaeological evidence for human migration to and settlement of remote Oceania (i.e., the Pacific Ocean eastwards of the Solomon Islands) is dated to no earlier than approximately 3,500 BP; trans-Pacific contact with the Americas coinciding with or pre-dating the Beringia migrations of at least 11,500 BP is highly problematic, except for movement along intercoastal routes.\n\nRecently, linguist Kathryn A. Klar of University of California, Berkeley and archaeologist Terry L. Jones of California Polytechnic State University have proposed contacts between Polynesians and the Chumash and Gabrielino of Southern California, between 500 and 700. Their primary evidence consists of the advanced sewn-plank canoe design, which is used throughout the Polynesian Islands, but is unknown in North America – except for those two tribes. Moreover, the Chumash word for \"sewn-plank canoe\", \"tomolo'o\", may have been derived from \"kumulaa'au\", a Hawaiian word meaning \"useful tree\".\n\nIn 2008, an expedition starting on the Philippines sailed two modern Wharram-designed catamarans loosely based on a Polynesian catamaran found in Auckland Museum New Zealand. The boats were built in the Philippines by an experienced boat builder to Wharram designs using modern strip plank with epoxy resin glue built over plywood frames. The catamarans had modern Dacron sails, Terylene stays and sheets with modern roller blocks. Wharram says he used Polynesian navigation to sail along the coast of Northern New Guinea and then sailed 150 miles to an island for which he had modern charts, proving that it is possible to sail a modern catamaran along the path of the Lapita Pacific migration. Unlike many other modern Polynesian \"replica\" voyages the Wharram catamarans were not towed or escorted by a modern vessel with modern GPS navigation system, nor were they fitted with a motor.\n\nPolynesian contact with the prehispanic Mapuche culture in central-south Chile has been suggested because of apparently similar cultural traits, including words like \"toki\" (stone axes and adzes), hand clubs similar to the Māori \"wahaika\", the sewn-plank canoe as used on Chiloe island, the \"curanto\" earth oven (Polynesian \"umu\") common in southern Chile, fishing techniques such as stone wall enclosures, a hockey-like game, and other potential parallels. Some strong westerlies and El Niño wind blow directly from central-east Polynesia to the Mapuche region, between Concepcion and Chiloe. A direct connection from New Zealand is possible, sailing with the Roaring Forties. In 1834, some escapees from Tasmania arrived at Chiloe Island after sailing for 43 days.\n\nThe first settlers who sailed to the Hawaiian Islands are said to have arrived as early as 400 C.E by Polynesians from the Marquesas Islands. Captain James Cook was the first European to arrive to the island of Kaua’i in 1778. He returned a year later and was killed in an altercation with natives at Kealakekua Bay. In 1973, Ben Finney established the Polynesian Voyaging Society to test the contentious question of how Polynesians found their islands. The team claimed to be able to replicate ancient Hawaiian double-hulled canoes capable of sailing across the ocean using strictly traditional voyaging techniques. In 1980, a Hawaiian named Nainoa Thompson invented a new method of non-instrument navigation (called the \"modern Hawaiian wayfinding system\"), enabling him to complete the voyage from Hawaii to Tahiti and back. In 1987, a Māori named Matahi Whakataka (Greg Brightwell) and his mentor Francis Cowan sailed from Tahiti to Aotearoa without instruments.\n\nIn New Zealand, a leading Māori navigator and ship builder is Hector Busby who was also inspired and influenced by Nainoa Thompson and Hokulea's voyage there in 1985.\n\nKnowledge of the traditional Polynesian methods of navigation was widely lost after contact with and colonization by Europeans. This caused debates over the reasons for the presence of the Polynesians in such isolated and scattered parts of the Pacific. According to Andrew Sharp, the explorer Captain James Cook, already familiar with Charles de Brosses's accounts of large groups of Pacific islanders who were driven off course in storms and ended up hundreds of miles away with no idea where they were, encountered in the course of one of his own voyages a castaway group of Tahitians who had become lost at sea in a gale and blown 1000 miles away to the island of Atiu. Cook wrote that this incident \"will serve to explain, better than the thousand conjectures of speculative reasoners, how the detached parts of the earth, and, in particular, how the South Seas, may have been peopled\".\n\nBy the late 19th century to the early 20th century, a more generous view of Polynesian navigation had come into favor, creating a much romanticized view of their seamanship, canoes, and navigational expertise. Late 19th and early 20th centuries writers such as Abraham Fornander and Percy Smith told of heroic Polynesians migrating in great coordinated fleets from Asia far and wide into present-day Polynesia.\n\nAnother view was presented by Andrew Sharp who challenged the \"heroic vision\" hypothesis, asserting instead that Polynesian maritime expertise was severely limited in the field of exploration and that as a result the settlement of Polynesia had been the result of luck, random island sightings, and drifting, rather than as organized voyages of colonization. Thereafter the oral knowledge passed down for generations allowed for eventual mastery of traveling between known locations. Sharp's reassessment caused a huge amount of controversy and led to a stalemate between the romantic and the skeptical views.\n\nBy the mid-to-late 1960s it was time for a new hands-on approach. Anthropologist David Lewis sailed his catamaran from Tahiti to New Zealand using stellar navigation without instruments. Anthropologist and historian Ben Finney built \"Nalehia\", a replica of a Hawaiian double canoe. Finney tested the canoe in a series of sailing and paddling experiments in Hawaiian waters. At the same time, ethnographic research in the Caroline Islands in Micronesia brought to light the fact that traditional stellar navigational methods were still very much in everyday use there. The building and testing of proa canoes (\"wa\") inspired by traditional designs, the harnessing of knowledge from skilled Micronesians, as well as voyages using stellar navigation, allowed practical conclusions about the seaworthiness and handling capabilities of traditional Polynesian canoes and allowed a better understanding of the navigational methods that were likely to have been used by the Polynesians and of how they, as people, were adapted to seafaring. Recent re-creations of Polynesian voyaging have used methods based largely on Micronesian methods and the teachings of a Micronesian navigator, Mau Piailug.\n\nIn accordance with Polynesian oral tradition, the geography of Polynesian navigation pathways are said to resemble the geometric qualities of an octopus with head centred on Ra'iātea (French Polynesia) and tentacles spread out across the Pacific. In oral tradition the octopus is known by various names such as Taumata-Fe'e-Fa'atupu-Hau (Grand Octopus of Prosperity), Tumu-Ra'i-Fenua (Beginning-of-Heaven-and-Earth) and Te Wheke-a-Muturangi (The Octopus of Muturangi).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18278835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18278835", "title": "Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity", "text": "Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity\n\nSoil Moisture and Ocean Salinity, or SMOS, is a satellite which forms part of ESA's Living Planet Programme. It is intended to provide new insights into Earth's water cycle and climate. In addition, it is intended to provide improved weather forecasting and monitoring of snow and ice accumulation.\n\nThe project was proposed in November 1998; in 2004 the project passed ESA-phase \"C/D\" and, after several delays, it was launched on 2 November 2009 from Plesetsk Cosmodrome on a Rockot rocket. The first data from the MIRAS (Microwave Imaging Radiometer using Aperture Synthesis) instrument was received on 20 November 2009. The SMOS programme cost is about €315 million ($465 million; £280 million). It is led by ESA but with significant input from French and Spanish interests.\n\nThe satellite is part of ESA's Earth Explorer programme – eight spacecraft that will do innovative science in obtaining data on issues of pressing environmental concern. The first is already in orbit – a mission called GOCE, which is mapping variations in the pull of gravity across the Earth's surface. SMOS is the second Explorer to launch; and a third spacecraft, known as CryoSat-2 (the first CryoSat failed on launch), was launched on 8 April 2010. CryoSat will assess the state of the world's ice cover.\n\nThe satellite was launched on 2 November 2009 (04:50 (01:50 GMT)) to a nearly circular orbit of 763 km aboard a Rokot, a modified Russian Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) SS-19 launched from a decommissioned SS-19 launcher from Northern Russia's Plesetsk Cosmodrome. The SMOS satellite was launched together with the Proba-2, a technology demonstration satellite.\n\nThe goal of the SMOS mission is to monitor surface soil moisture with an accuracy of 4% (at 35–50 km spatial resolution). This aspect is managed by the HYDROS project. Project Aquarius will attempt to monitor sea surface salinity with an accuracy of 0.1 psu (10- to 30-day average and a spatial resolution of 200 km x 200 km).\n\nSoil moisture is an important aspect of climate, and therefore forecasting. Plants transpire water from depths lower than 1 meter in many places and satellites like SMOS can only provide moisture content down to a few centimeters, but using repeated measurements in a day, the satellite can extrapolate soil moisture. The SMOS team of ESA hope to work with farmers around the world, including the United States Department of Agriculture to use as ground-based calibration for models determining soil moisture, as it may help to better understand crop yields over wide regions.\n\nOcean salinity is crucial to the understanding of the role of the ocean in climate through the global water cycle. Salinity in combination with temperature determine ocean circulation by defining its density and hence thermohaline circulation. Additionally, ocean salinity is one of the variables that regulate CO uptake and release and therefore has an effect on the oceanic carbon cycle.\nInformation from SMOS is expected to help improve short and medium-term weather forecasts, and also have practical applications in areas such as agriculture and water resource management. In addition, climate models should benefit from having a more precise picture of the scale and speed of movement of water in the different components of the hydrological cycle.\n\nThe SMOS satellite carries a new type of instrument called Microwave Imaging Radiometer with Aperture Synthesis (MIRAS). Some eight metres across, it has the look of helicopter rotor blades; the instrument creates images of radiation emitted in the microwave L-band (1.4 GHz). MIRAS will measure changes in the wetness of the land and in the salinity of seawater by observing variations in the natural microwave emission coming up off the surface of the planet.\n\nThe CNES Satellite Operations Ground Segment will operate the spacecraft with telecommunications from ESA's S-band facility located in Kiruna, Sweden. The Data Processing Ground Segment (CDTI, Villafranca, Spain) will process SMOS data through the X-band. Higher level processing of information will be done by scientists globally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11983703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11983703", "title": "Spout of Garnock", "text": "Spout of Garnock\n\nThe Spout of Garnock (or Garnock Spout) is a waterfall in Ayrshire, Scotland. At approximately 60–70 ft high, it is the county's highest waterfall. It is not the source of the River Garnock, as is sometimes said, but is located about a mile and a half from the river's birth.\n"}
{"id": "12765006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12765006", "title": "Telephone numbers in Italy", "text": "Telephone numbers in Italy\n\nTelephone numbers in Italy are defined by a telephone numbering plan that is organized by types of services. Landline numbers and mobile phone numbers are easily recognizable: the former start with 0 and the latter start with 3. Other initial digits denote other services, such as emergency and toll-free numbers.\n\nThe country code for calling Italy from abroad is \"39\". The international prefix is \"00\", as is standard in most European countries. Four different emergency numbers exist, including 112. \n\nItaly uses an open numbering plan in which the length of subscriber telephone numbers varies from six to eleven digits. The dialing procedures for callers mandate that the full telephone number is always dialed, including the area code, which is called \"prefix\" (\"prefisso\" in Italian).\n\nWhen communicating phone numbers it is usual to group the digits, but there are no fixed rules for grouping. The same phone number is likely to be written or pronounced differently by different people. Several symbols can be used to group digits; spaces are common, but dots and hyphens are often seen as well.\n\nThe minimum number length is 3 digits and the maximum is 12.\n\nLandline numbers start with the digit \"0\" and are 6 to 11 digits long, although they are rarely shorter than 9. They are composed of a variable length prefix followed by a variable length subscriber number.\n\nPrefixes are assigned on a geographical basis, starting from the north of the country: for example Turin has prefix \"011\", Rome has \"06\", Naples has \"081\" and Taranto has \"099\".\n\nMobile phone numbers start with the digit \"3\" and are generally ten digits long. It is still possible, but rare, to find nine-digit numbers, which were the first to be assigned.\n\nThe first three digits of the mobile phone numbers (\"prefix\") identify the mobile network operator that assigned the number, but since 2002 mobile number portability is possible and thus any number can end up being managed by any operator.\n\nSome network operators allow the caller to insert additional digit in order to redirect phone calls to voice mail. For example dialing \"363397308986\" will connect to the voice mail of the phone number \"3397308986\". The extra digits required vary based on the network operator managing the number.\n\nEmergency and service numbers start with the digit \"1\".\n\nFour different emergency numbers are currently in use, but they are in the process of being replaced by \"112\", previously assigned to the gendarmerie, is already accepting any emergency calls in some areas. Calls to 112 are answered within seconds and in multiple languages.\n\nThe complete list of emergency numbers is:\n\nExamples of service numbers are:\n\nSpecial-rate numbers start with \"8\" and include toll-free numbers (called \"green numbers\", \"numeri verdi\" in Italian, starting with \"80...\"), shared-rate numbers (\"84...\") and premium-rate services (\"89...\").\n\nNumbers starting with \"4\" are used for network-specific phone services like voice mailbox and various information services; they can be free, non-premium or premium.\n\nIncluded in this category are, among others:\nThe digit 5 has been reserved for VoIP numbers. \nFinally 7 is used for internet services such as virtual fax numbers and dial up internet access (\"70...\").\n\nNumbers starting with the digits \"2\", \"6\" and \"9\" are currently unassigned and reserved for future purposes.\n\nIn the past it was possible to omit the prefix when calling from a landline to another landline in the same area. The digit \"0\" was the trunk code and it had to be removed when calling from abroad.\n\nThis changed in 1998, with a transition period lasting from 19 June to 31 December. The new dial plan requires one to dial the full number for every call. The main advantage is the availability of millions of previously reserved phone numbers.\n\nThe change was widely advertised with a campaign named \"Fissa il prefisso\" (\"Attach the prefix\").\n\nIt was originally intended also to replace the leading \"0\" with \"4\" for landlines. This was scheduled to be implemented starting from 29 December 2000, but this never happened: \"0\" remained to identify landlines and \"4\" now identifies network services.\n\nExample for calling the landline subscriber number \"xxxxxxxx\" in Rome:\n\nUntil 2001 a leading \"0\" was part of any mobile phone number, but it has been removed.\n\nExample for calling the mobile phone number \"3xx xxxxxxx\":\n\nSeveral other smaller changes occurred during the years: for example the prefix for toll free numbers changed from \"167\" to \"800\" in 1999.\n\nThe Italian municipality Campione d'Italia, an exclave within the Swiss canton of Ticino, uses the Swiss telephone network and is part of the Swiss numbering plan.\n\nThe Italian enclave San Marino has its own country code 378, but landline numbers can be reached using the Italian country code as well: the prefix \"0549\" is assigned to San Marino. Dialing either \"+378xxxxxx\" or \"+390549xxxxxx\" will reach the same number. Mobile phone customers are sometimes assigned Italian phone numbers.\n\nThe country code 379 is assigned to Vatican City, but it is not used: telephone numbers in Vatican City are integrated into the Italian numbering plan. Vatican landline telephone numbers are in the form \"+3906698xxxxx\", \"+39\" being the country code for Italy and \"06\" the prefix for Rome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51477367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51477367", "title": "The Climate Mobilization", "text": "The Climate Mobilization\n\nThe Climate Mobilization (TCM) is a grassroots environmental advocacy group working toward large-scale political action against global warming, with the belief that the crisis of climate change requires a national economic effort on the scale of the American mobilization of the home front during World War II.\n\nIt was founded by psychologist Margaret Klein Salamon to confront climate change denial and build the political will necessary to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions and 100% clean energy within a decade in order to avoid crossing potentially catastrophic climate tipping points and begin restoring a safe climate.\n\nSince at least 2008, public figures like environmental analyst Lester Brown, former vice president Al Gore, author and energy expert Joseph J. Romm, \"New York Times\" columnist Thomas Friedman, writer Naomi Klein, and climate activist Bill McKibben have called for governmental climate action on the scale of the World War II mobilization to rapidly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2011, the heads of leading environmental organizations including 350.org, Sierra Club, Greenpeace, Friends of the Earth, and Rainforest Action Network signed a letter to Presidents Barack Obama and Hu Jintao calling for a \"wartime-like mobilization\" by the governments of the United States and China to cut carbon emissions 80% (based on 2006 levels) by 2020. However, environmental groups in the United States never organized politically for such an ambitious goal.\nThe Climate Mobilization was launched in September 2014, before the People's Climate March in New York City, specifically to organize politically around the concept of a rapid, World War II-scale government mobilization against climate change. Margaret Klein Salamon and allies developed a pledge-based movement-building strategy in which signers agree to vote for political candidates who have signed the pledge over those who have not. The Climate Mobilization’s \"Pledge to Mobilize\" calls on the United States government to commence a World War II-scale mobilization against climate change in order to decrease net greenhouse gas emissions 100% by 2025, deploy a system of removing greenhouse gases (GHG) from the atmosphere with wartime speed, and make reducing net GHGs 100% globally, with the same swiftness, a top political priority.\n\nThroughout 2015, citizen activists in California, Iowa and elsewhere in the U.S. began rallying for World War II-scale national climate mobilization, and spreading the Climate Mobilization pledge to local political candidates.\n\nIn January 2016, The Climate Mobilization sponsored a \"Climate Emergency Caucus\" in Des Moines before the Iowa caucuses, which simulated the state's 2016 Democratic presidential primary caucus. Former U.S. Senator Tom Harkin spoke on behalf of candidate Hillary Clinton, and climate advocates Jane Kleeb, founder of Bold Nebraska, and Iowa politician and radio host Ed Fallon spoke on behalf of candidate Bernie Sanders. Sanders won 67% of the vote, reinforcing the perception that voters highly concerned about climate change strongly preferred Sanders over Clinton, and that climate voters were a key voting bloc contributing to his competitiveness in Iowa and later primary states. Throughout his presidential campaign, Bernie Sanders discussed fighting climate change \"in military terms\", saying at one point during a debate against Hillary Clinton that \"if we approach this as if we were at war\", the U.S. could be up to the challenge, as it was during World War II.\nIn April 2016, The Climate Mobilization organized a \"die-in\" outside the United Nations building in New York City during the signing of the COP 21 Paris Agreement, meant to protest what the group called the agreement's inadequacy in relation to the scale of the threat of climate change. TCM deputy director Ezra Silk called the agreement \"historic in the sense that the Munich Agreement was historic — a catastrophic act of appeasement meant to maintain business-as-usual arrangements.\" He explained: \"It's widely recognized that this agreement is not even close to what is needed... It doesn't really convey a sense of urgency [so] we wanted to sort of inject some reality into the discussion. We need to go on to an emergency war footing like right now[...] The climate is already dangerous, we're already in an emergency. It is understood within the climate movement that this is the kind of approach that is needed. It's just considered politically unrealistic. Our goal is to change the political possibility.”\n\nIn July 2016, the national platform committee of the Democratic Party of the United States approved an amendment submitted by Climate Mobilization activist Russell Greene committing the party to a World War II-scale international mobilization against climate change: \"We believe the United States must lead in forging a robust global solution to the climate crisis. We are committed to a national mobilization, and to leading a global effort to mobilize nations to address this threat on a scale not seen since World War II. In the first 100 days of the next administration, the President will convene a summit of the world’s best engineers, climate scientists, policy experts, activists, and indigenous communities to chart a course to solve the climate crisis.\"\n\nPoliticians who have signed the Climate Mobilization pledge include San Luis Obispo mayor Heidi Harmon, Des Moines mayor Frank Cownie; Iowa State Rep. Dan Kelley; Iowa State Senator and U.S. Senate candidate Rob Hogg; New York State Senate candidate Debbie Medina; and U.S. congressional candidates Peter Jacob of New Jersey, and Tim Canova, Darren Soto, and Alina Valdes of Florida.\n\nTCM's advisory board includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "8689017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8689017", "title": "Tuomas Vohlonen", "text": "Tuomas Vohlonen\n\nTuomas \"Tommo\" Vohlonen (24 September 1877 – 27 March 1939) was a Finnish inventor. A surveyor by trade, his patents cover a wide area of devices and activities including compasses, skis, surveying, engines and farming. He founded the company Suunto Oy which is still active producing compasses according to his patented method as well as dive computers, sport watches and heart-rate monitors.\n\nIn April 1933, after experimentation with various designs, Vohlonen applied for a patent from the Finnish National Board of Patents and Registration for a compact liquid-filled field compass, in which the magnetic needle and damping fluid were completely sealed into a unitary fused celluloid capsule. Vohlonen was granted a patent on January 25, 1935. Together with his wife Elli and nephew Kauko he founded Suunto Oy in 1936. Vohlonen incorporated his new liquid-filled capsule into a lightweight wrist-mounted design, the Suunto M-311, suitable for use by soldiers, surveyors, hikers, and others navigating while afoot.\n\nIn September 1877 Juho and Helena Vohlonen had a son in Vohloja ranch, Orimattila. Later they had four more children, sons Kelpo Hyvä (surveyor, wrestler) and Oiva Lahja (officer) and daughters Sievä Maria a.k.a. Maija (agronomist, sheep specialist, author) and Oma Eeva (agronomist), but this son was nominated Tuomas, with only one first name. Parents called him Tommo, and that nomination was used through his life. Only a few years before his death Tuomas could be seen in official patent papers. During the siblings’ childhood the family moved to Lappeenranta for a short while, then to Kekäleenmäki, Ruokolahti. There Juho Vohlonen worked as smith and also did some farming. Helena and Juho Vohlonen weren’t highly educated, but they had decided their children will get the highest education possible. Including daughters, which wasn’t very typical of that time. Earlier stages of school were done in Ruokolahti, later stages in Lappeenranta. Tuomas went to college in Vyborg. After that Tuomas studied in Finnish polytechnic to become a surveyor.\n\nVohlonen siblings were all interested in outdoor living, sports, hunting and fishing. Tuomas’ brother Kelpo Vohlonen was a competition-level wrestler trained by an olympic winner Verner Weckman, but it's told Tuomas still defeated him easily in wrestling. Tuomas was attracted by wilderness, distant districts, snow fields and open waters. Even when he had settled in Helsinki, he travelled to Saimaa as often as possible. There he had a small boat with outboard motor and a sauna on a beach he had entirely bought. Orienteering was one of Tuomas' favorites, and eventually it became the work of his life.\n\nOldest of Vohlonen’s innovations was to turn the compass needle into vertical position. Through this, the needle stabilized more quickly. After many decades Vohlonen returned developing the compass and invented a method of fabricating the needle chamber. With this method the needle chamber could be sealed hermetically and the chamber had a waved bottom plate to stabilize the pressure. He also improved many nautical and airplane compasses. During the same time, he developed a device for measuring height, for example of trees. He also developed a holder for compass. It was named PIVO, an abbreviation of names Pihkala and Vohlonen. His ski bindings has been playing a role in development of Finnish skiing. In the 1930s, living in Helsinki, he started developing the bindings. Because of new version of binding, also the ski boots had to be redeveloped. Spark devices of combustion engines were of his interest in the 1920s. He built them in Pori. He had a small factory for them, and he went on with them later in Helsinki, having them produced under brand Mars. Because of his innovation, the frame of magneto could be manufactured from a single piece. He also invented a starting assistant for magneto, which gave out a full spark even with slow revolutions. In farming he developed a classifier for grain, and for forestry he developed a plow, both later fabricated by Rosenlew. In surveying, in addition to the tree height measuring device, he developed a device for angular measuring and also other assistive gear. He developed a method for fast reading and learning. Engineer Tuomas Vohlonen died on March 27, 1939, at age of 61. He is buried in Ruokolahti, Finland.\n\nOn April 10, 1933 Tuomas Vohlonen applied for a patent for a liquid compass, with the description \"liquid compass with compass needle and liquid entirely sealed in a container made of celluloid\". On September 3, 1934 Vohlonen supplemented the application with edited patent demands: 1: Method of manufacturing a liquid compass, in which the liquid chamber is manufactured of two or more pieces and jointed by gluing or soldering, to form a sealed chamber, 2: Liquid is pressed into chamber through a small hole, which is then sealed with glue or soldering and 3: Liquid compass built under conditions 1 and 2, and 4: the needle chamber is made entirely of celluloid or other substance like it. Now the application included the fabrication method. On September 11, 1934 Vohlonen made another supplement, which included the same as the previous, only rephrased. On January 25, 1935 Vohlonen was granted a patent number 16285 for a method of manufacturing a liquid compass and a liquid compass manufactured accordingly. The patent was effective from the date of first application, April 10, 1933.\n\nIn November 1932 a Swedish company Nya Instrumentfabriks Aktiebolaget Lyth had applied for a patent also in Finland for \"vätskekompass\", a liquid filled compass. In the application the needle chamber was described as being built of two different materials, of which only the upper part was made of flexible material. Nothing was mentioned about method of fabrication. This caused a threat and delay for accepting Vohlonen's patent. However, these applications were not considered to be about the same kind of product, so both Vohlonen and Lyth were granted a patent. This is one of the reasons why Vohlonen had to supplement his application: he knew the original formulation wouldn't succeed.\n\nOy Physica AB, a Finnish company, had made compasses under license by Vohlonen, and these resembled heavily the original Suunto M-311, only minor changes were made. The license expired in 1935. In a publication by Metos Oy about their company history it is said: In the same premises as Metos Oy, a sister company administrated by same owners, Oy Physica Ab was a supplier for Finnish military forces. It employed about 20 people. The most significant article for Physica was a compass, competing the market with Suunto Oy. Physica sued Vohlonen, because, according to them, the supplements described a totally different product, the original application didn’t mention anything about a manufacturing method and, in addition, the method was elsewhere used long before the patent application, thus, the patent should be cancelled. On September 27, 1940, the first stage of court gave a statement: It is not up to them to judge whether the patent was given according to faulty descriptions, thus the patent remains effective as it was. On March 27, 1942, the second stage of court gave a statement, according to which all the structures described in the patent were known before, and thus the patent shouldn’t have been granted, and declared the patent void. On September 9, 1943, the supreme court abolished the second stage judgement, ratified the first stage judgement and thus, the patent remained effective.\n\nTuomas Vohlonen was granted a patent number 16121 on October 12, 1934. It was for a device in a compass to measure the angle. It was described as being in a bezel, in which there were diagonal grooves, screws or other alike to place a ruler, pen or alike, to rotate a bezel to align with the north of map. On a first trial, Physica sued Vohlonen on a basis that the device already existed and was well known before the date of patent application. On the second trial of the same question, Physica sued Vohlonen, because they didn’t consider the device to be any followance of creative work to be considered an innovation, let alone to be worth patenting. Also, they considered the patent to disturb their business and thus, they demanded the patent to be void. On the first trial, the supreme court judged the patent to be effective. On the second trial, Vohlonen family didn’t even respond, saying the matter was already solved in the first trial. The supreme court gave its final statement on February 25, 1944, according to which the court didn’t chance the verdict of the first trial.\n\nOn November 18, 1935, because of the demand of Tuomas Vohlonen, the court gave an order to confiscate the tools of Physica, which were used for making compasses. The confiscation was executed three days later. Physica sued Vohlonen family, the lawsuit went through all the stages of the court, and the supreme court gave its statement on February 17, 1947, according to which the tools could have been used for other purposes also, so the confiscation wasn’t necessary. Vohlonen family had to pay Physica for the damage caused.\n\nCases mentioned above provide a preview of the setting. Suunto Oy and Vohlonen family won most of these long-lasting trials and the patents remained effective. Soon after these times, Physica gradually quit the manufacture of compasses as unprofitable and the whole company vanished.\n"}
{"id": "34542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34542", "title": "Zhang Heng", "text": "Zhang Heng\n\nZhang Heng (; AD 78–139), formerly romanized as Chang Heng, was a Han Chinese polymath from Nanyang who lived during the Han dynasty. Educated in the capital cities of Luoyang and Chang'an, he achieved success as an astronomer, mathematician, scientist, engineer, inventor, geographer, cartographer, artist, poet, statesman, and literary scholar.\n\nZhang Heng began his career as a minor civil servant in Nanyang. Eventually, he became Chief Astronomer, Prefect of the Majors for Official Carriages, and then Palace Attendant at the imperial court. His uncompromising stance on historical and calendrical issues led to his becoming a controversial figure, preventing him from rising to the status of Grand Historian. His political rivalry with the palace eunuchs during the reign of Emperor Shun (r. 125–144) led to his decision to retire from the central court to serve as an administrator of Hejian in Hebei. Zhang returned home to Nanyang for a short time, before being recalled to serve in the capital once more in 138. He died there a year later, in 139.\n\nZhang applied his extensive knowledge of mechanics and gears in several of his inventions. He invented the world's first water-powered armillary sphere to assist astronomical observation; improved the inflow water clock by adding another tank; and invented the world's first seismoscope, which discerned the cardinal direction of an earthquake away. He improved previous Chinese calculations for pi. In addition to documenting about 2,500 stars in his extensive star catalog, Zhang also posited theories about the Moon and its relationship to the Sun: specifically, he discussed the Moon's sphericity, its illumination by reflected sunlight on one side and the hidden nature of the other, and the nature of solar and lunar eclipses. His \"fu\" (rhapsody) and \"shi\" poetry were renowned in his time and studied and analyzed by later Chinese writers. Zhang received many posthumous honors for his scholarship and ingenuity; some modern scholars have compared his work in astronomy to that of the Greco-Roman Ptolemy (AD 86–161).\n\nBorn in the town of Xi'e in Nanyang Commandery (north of the modern Nanyang City in Henan province), Zhang Heng came from a distinguished but not very affluent family. His grandfather Zhang Kan had been governor of a commandery and one of the leaders who supported the restoration of the Han by Emperor Guangwu (r. 25–57), following the death of the usurping Wang Mang of the Xin (AD 9–23). When he was ten, Zhang's father died, leaving him in the care of his mother and grandmother. An accomplished writer in his youth, Zhang left home in the year 95 to pursue his studies in the capitals of Chang'an and Luoyang. While traveling to Luoyang, Zhang passed by a hot spring near Mount Li and dedicated one of his earliest \"fu\" poems to it. This work, entitled \"\"Fu\" on the Hot Springs\" (\"Wēnquán fù\" 溫泉賦), describes the throngs of people attending the hot springs, which later became famous as the \"Huaqing Hot Springs\", a favorite retreat of imperial concubine Yang Guifei during the Tang dynasty. After studying for some years at Luoyang's Taixue, he was well-versed in the classics and friends with several notable persons, including the mathematician and calligrapher Cui Yuan (78–143), the official and philosophical commentator Ma Rong (79–166), and the philosopher Wang Fu (78–163). Government authorities offered Zhang appointments to several offices, including a position as one of the Imperial Secretaries, yet he acted modestly and declined. At age twenty-three, he returned home with the title \"Officer of Merit in Nanyang\", serving as the master of documents under the administration of Governor Bao De (in office from 103–111). As he was charged with composing inscriptions and dirges for the governor, he gained experience in writing official documents. As Officer of Merit in the commandery, he was also responsible for local appointments to office and recommendations to the capital of nominees for higher office. He spent much of his time composing rhapsodies on the capital cities. When Bao De was recalled to the capital in 111 to serve as a minister of finance, Zhang continued his literary work at home in Xi'e. Zhang Heng began his studies in astronomy at the age of thirty and began publishing his works on astronomy and mathematics.\n\nIn 112, Zhang was summoned to the court of Emperor An (r. 106–125), who had heard of his expertise in mathematics. When he was nominated to serve at the capital, Zhang was escorted by carriage—a symbol of his official status—to Luoyang, where he became a court gentleman working for the Imperial Secretariat. He was promoted to Chief Astronomer for the court, serving his first term from 115–120 under Emperor An and his second under the succeeding emperor from 126–132. As Chief Astronomer, Zhang was a subordinate of the Minister of Ceremonies, one of Nine Ministers ranked just below the Three Excellencies. In addition to recording heavenly observations and portents, preparing the calendar, and reporting which days were auspicious and which ill-omened, Zhang was also in charge of an advanced literacy test for all candidates to the Imperial Secretariat and the Censorate, both of whose members were required to know at least 9,000 characters and all major writing styles. Under Emperor An, Zhang also served as Prefect of the Majors for Official Carriages under the Ministry of Guards, in charge of receiving memorials to the throne (formal essays on policy and administration) as well as nominees for official appointments.\nWhen the government official Dan Song proposed the Chinese calendar should be reformed in 123 to adopt certain apocryphal teachings, Zhang opposed the idea. He considered the teachings to be of questionable stature and believed they could introduce errors. Others shared Zhang's opinion and the calendar was not altered, yet Zhang's proposal that apocryphal writings should be banned was rejected. The officials Liu Zhen and Liu Taotu, members of a committee to compile the dynastic history \"Dongguan Hanji\" (), sought permission from the court to consult Zhang Heng. However, Zhang was barred from assisting the committee due to his controversial views on apocrypha and his objection to the relegation of Gengshi Emperor's (r. 23–25) role in the restoration of the Han Dynasty as lesser than Emperor Guangwu's. Liu Zhen and Liu Taotu were Zhang's only historian allies at court, and after their deaths Zhang had no further opportunities for promotion to the prestigious post of court historian.\n\nDespite this setback in his official career, Zhang was reappointed as Chief Astronomer in 126 after Emperor Shun of Han (r. 125–144) ascended to the throne. His intensive astronomical work was rewarded only with the rank and salary of 600 bushels, or \"shi\", of grain (mostly commuted to coin cash or bolts of silk). To place this number in context, in a hierarchy of twenty official ranks, the lowest-paid official earned the rank and salary of 100 bushels and the highest-paid official earned 10,000 bushels during the Han. The 600-bushel rank was the lowest the emperor could directly appoint to a central government position; any official of lower status was overseen by central or provincial officials of high rank.\n\nIn 132, Zhang introduced an intricate seismoscope to the court, which he claimed could detect the precise cardinal direction of a distant earthquake. On one occasion his device indicated that an earthquake had occurred in the northwest. As there was no perceivable tremor felt in the capital his political enemies were briefly able to relish the failure of his device, until a messenger arrived shortly afterwards to report that an earthquake had occurred about 400 km (248 mi) to 500 km (310 mi) northwest of Luoyang in Gansu province.\nA year after Zhang presented his seismoscope to the court, officials and candidates were asked to provide comments about a series of recent earthquakes which could be interpreted as signs of displeasure from Heaven. The ancient Chinese viewed natural calamities as cosmological punishments for misdeeds that were perpetrated by the Chinese ruler or his subordinates on earth. In Zhang's memorial discussing the reasons behind these natural disasters, he criticized the new recruitment system of Zuo Xiong which fixed the age of eligible candidates for the title \"Filial and Incorrupt\" at age forty. The new system also transferred the power of the candidates' assessment to the Three Excellencies rather than the Generals of the Household, who by tradition oversaw the affairs of court gentlemen. Although Zhang's memorial was rejected, his status was significantly elevated soon after to Palace Attendant, a position he used to influence the decisions of Emperor Shun. With this prestigious new position, Zhang earned a salary of 2,000 bushels and had the right to escort the emperor.\n\nAs Palace Attendant to Emperor Shun, Zhang Heng attempted to convince him that the court eunuchs represented a threat to the imperial court. Zhang pointed to specific examples of past court intrigues involving eunuchs, and convinced Shun that he should assume greater authority and limit their influence. The eunuchs attempted to slander Zhang, who responded with a \"fu\" rhapsody called \"\"Fu\" on Pondering the Mystery\", which vents his frustration. Rafe de Crespigny states that Zhang's rhapsody used imagery similar to Qu Yuan's (340–278 BC) poem \"Li Sao\" and focused on whether or not good men should flee the corrupted world or remain virtuous within it.\nWhile working for the central court, Zhang Heng had access to a variety of written materials located in the Archives of the Eastern Pavilion. Zhang read many of the great works of history in his day and claimed he had found ten instances where the \"Records of the Grand Historian\" by Sima Qian (145–90 BC) and the \"Book of Han\" by Ban Gu (AD 32–92) differed from other ancient texts that were available to him. His account was preserved and recorded in the 5th century text of the \"Book of Later Han\" by Fan Ye (398–445). His rhapsodies and other literary works displayed a deep knowledge of classic texts, Chinese philosophy, and histories. He also compiled a commentary on the \"Taixuan\" (, \"Great Mystery\") by the Daoist author Yang Xiong (53 BC–AD 18).\n\nXiao Tong (501–531), a crown prince of the Liang Dynasty (502–557), immortalized several of Zhang's works in his literary anthology, \"Selections of Refined Literature (Wen xuan\" 文選\")\". Zhang's rhapsodies (, \"fu\") include \"Western Metropolis Rhapsody\" (\"Xī jīng fù\" 西京賦), \"Eastern Metropolis Rhapsody\" (\"Dōng jīng fù\" 東京賦), \"Southern Capital Rhapsody\" (\"Nán dū fù\" 南都賦), \"Rhapsody on Contemplating the Mystery\" (\"Sī xuán fù\" 思玄賦), and \"Rhapsody on Returning to the Fields\" (\"Guī tián fù\" 歸田賦). The latter fuses Daoist ideas with Confucianism and was a precursor to later Chinese metaphysical nature poetry, according to Liu Wu-chi. A set of four short lyric poems (\"shi\" 詩) entitled \"Lyric Poems on Four Sorrows\" (\"Sì chóu fù\" 四愁詩), is also included with Zhang's preface. This set constitutes some of the earliest heptasyllabic \"shi\" Chinese poetry written. While still in Luoyang, Zhang became inspired to write his \"Western Metropolis Rhapsody\" and \"Eastern Metropolis Rhapsody\", which were based on the \"Rhapsody on the Two Capitals\" by the historian Ban Gu. Zhang's work was similar to Ban's, although the latter fully praised the contemporaneous Eastern Han regime while Zhang provided a warning that it could suffer the same fate as the Western Han if it too declined into a state of decadence and moral depravity. These two works satirized and criticized what he saw as the excessive luxury of the upper classes. Zhang's \"Southern Capital Rhapsody\" commemorated his home city of Nanyang, home of the restorer of the Han Dynasty, Guangwu.\n\nIn Zhang Heng's poem \"Four Sorrows\", he laments that he is unable to woo a beautiful woman due to the impediment of mountains, snows and rivers. Rafe de Crespigny, Tong Xiao, and David R. Knechtges claim that Zhang wrote this as an innuendo hinting at his inability to keep in contact with the emperor, hindered by unworthy rivals and petty men. This poem is one of the first in China to have seven words per line. His \"Four Sorrows\" reads:\n\nIn another poem of his called \"Stabilizing the Passions\" (\"Dìng qíng fù\" 定情賦) — preserved in a Tang Dynasty (618–907) encyclopedia, but referred to earlier by Tao Qian (365–427) in praise of Zhang's lyrical minimalism — Zhang displays his admiration for an attractive and exemplary woman. This simpler type of \"fu\" poem influenced later works by the prominent official and scholar Cai Yong (132–192). Zhang wrote:\n\nZhang's long lyrical poems also revealed a great amount of information on urban layout and basic geography. His rhapsody \"Sir Based-On-Nothing\" provides details on terrain, palaces, hunting parks, markets, and prominent buildings of Chang'an, the Western Han capital. Exemplifying his attention to detail, his rhapsody on Nanyang described gardens filled with spring garlic, summer bamboo shoots, autumn leeks, winter rape-turnips, perilla, evodia, and purple ginger. Zhang Heng's writing confirms the size of the imperial hunting park in the suburbs of Chang'an, as his estimate for the circumference of the park's encircling wall agrees with the historian Ban Gu's estimate of roughly 400 \"li\" (one li in Han times was equal to 415.8 m, or 1,364 ft, making the circumference of the park wall 166,320 m, or 545,600 ft). Along with Sima Xiangru (179–117 BC), Zhang listed a variety of animals and hunting game inhabiting the park, which were divided in the northern and southern portions of the park according to where the animals had originally came from: northern or southern China. Somewhat similar to the description of Sima Xiangru, Zhang described the Western Han emperors and their entourage enjoying boat outings, water plays, fishing, and displays of archery targeting birds and other animals with stringed arrows from the tops of along Chang'an's Kunming Lake. The focus of Zhang's writing on specific places and their terrain, society, people, and their customs could also be seen as early attempts of ethnographic categorization. In his poem \"Xijing fu\", Zhang shows that he was aware of the new foreign religion of Buddhism, introduced via the Silk Road, as well as the legend of the birth of Buddha with the vision of the white elephant bringing about conception. In his \"Western Metropolis Rhapsody\" (西京賦), Zhang described court entertainments such as \"juedi\" (角抵), a form of theatrical wrestling accompanied by music in which participants butted heads with bull horn masks.\n\nWith his \"Responding to Criticism\" (\"Ying jian\" 應間), a work modeled on Yang Xiong's \"Justification Against Ridicule\", Zhang was an early writer and proponent of the Chinese literary genre \"shelun\", or hypothetical discourse. Authors of this genre created a written dialogue between themselves and an imaginary person (or a real person of their entourage or association); the latter poses questions to the author on how to lead a successful life. He also used it as a means to criticize himself for failing to obtain high office, but coming to the conclusion that the true gentleman displays virtue instead of greed for power. In this work, Dominik Declercq asserts that the person urging Zhang to advance his career in a time of government corruption most likely represented the eunuchs or Empress Liang's (116–150) powerful relatives in the Liang clan. Declercq states that these two groups would have been \"anxious to know whether this famous scholar could be lured over to their side\", but Zhang flatly rejected such an alignment by declaring in this politically charged piece of literature that his gentlemanly quest for virtue trumped any desire of his for power.\n\nZhang wrote about the various love affairs of emperors dissatisfied with the imperial harem, going out into the city incognito to seek out prostitutes and sing-song girls. This was seen as a general criticism of the Eastern Han emperors and their imperial favorites, guised in the criticism of earlier Western Han emperors. Besides criticizing the Western Han emperors for lavish decadence, Zhang also pointed out that their behavior and ceremonies did not properly conform with the Chinese cyclical beliefs in yin and yang. In a poem criticizing the previous Western Han Dynasty, Zhang wrote:\n\nFor centuries the Chinese approximated pi as 3; Liu Xin (d. AD 23) made the first known Chinese attempt at a more accurate calculation of 3.1457, but there is no record detailing the method he used to obtain this figure. In his work around 130, Zhang Heng compared the celestial circle to the diameter of the earth, proportioning the former as 736 and the latter as 232, thus calculating pi as 3.1724. In Zhang's day, the ratio 4:3 was given for the area of a square to the area of its inscribed circle and the volume of a cube and volume of the inscribed sphere should also be 4:3. In formula, with D as diameter and V as volume, D:V = 16:9 or V=formula_1D; Zhang realized that the value for diameter in this formula was inaccurate, noting the discrepancy as the value taken for the ratio. Zhang then attempted to remedy this by amending the formula with an additional formula_2D, hence V=formula_1D + formula_2D = formula_5D. With the ratio of the volume of the cube to the inscribed sphere at 8:5, the implied ratio of the area of the square to the circle is √8:√5. From this formula, Zhang calculated pi as the square root of 10 (or approximately 3.162). Zhang also calculated pi as formula_6 = 3.1466 in his book \"Ling Xian\" (靈憲). In the 3rd century, Liu Hui made the calculation more accurate with his π algorithm, which allowed him to obtain the value 3.14159. Later, Zu Chongzhi (429–500) approximated pi as formula_7 or 3.141592, the most accurate calculation for pi the ancient Chinese would achieve.\nIn his publication of AD 120 called \"The Spiritual Constitution of the Universe\" (靈憲, \"Ling Xian\", lit. \"Sublime Model\"), Zhang Heng theorized that the universe was like an egg \"as round as a crossbow pellet\" with the stars on the shell and the Earth as the central yolk. This universe theory is congruent with the geocentric model as opposed to the heliocentric model. Although the ancient Warring States (403–221 BC) Chinese astronomers Shi Shen and Gan De had compiled China's first star catalogue in the 4th century BC, Zhang nonetheless catalogued 2,500 stars which he placed in a \"brightly shining\" category (the Chinese estimated the total to be 14,000), and he recognized 124 constellations. In comparison, this star catalogue featured many more stars than the 850 documented by the Greek astronomer Hipparchus (c. 190–c.120 BC) in his catalogue, and more than Ptolemy (AD 83–161), who catalogued over 1,000. Zhang supported the \"radiating influence\" theory to explain solar and lunar eclipses, a theory which was opposed by Wang Chong (AD 27–97). In the \"Ling Xian\", Zhang wrote:\n\nThe Sun is like fire and the Moon like water. The fire gives out light and the water reflects it. Thus the moon's brightness is produced from the radiance of the Sun, and the Moon's darkness is due to (the light of) the sun being obstructed. The side which faces the Sun is fully lit, and the side which is away from it is dark. The planets (as well as the Moon) have the nature of water and reflect light. The light pouring forth from the Sun does not always reach the moon owing to the obstruction of the earth itself—this is called 'an-xu', a lunar eclipse. When (a similar effect) happens with a planet (we call it) an occultation; when the Moon passes across (the Sun's path) then there is a solar eclipse.\n\nZhang Heng viewed these astronomical phenomena in supernatural terms as well. The signs of comets, eclipses, and movements of heavenly bodies could all be interpreted by him as heavenly guides on how to conduct affairs of state. Contemporary writers also wrote about eclipses and the sphericity of heavenly bodies. The music theorist and mathematician Jing Fang (78–37 BC) wrote about the spherical shape of the Sun and Moon while discussing eclipses:\n\nThe Moon and the planets are Yin; they have shape but no light. This they receive only when the Sun illuminates them. The former masters regarded the Sun as round like a crossbow bullet, and they thought the Moon had the nature of a mirror. Some of them recognized the Moon as a ball too. Those parts of the Moon which the Sun illuminates look bright, those parts which it does not, remain dark.\n\nThe theory posited by Zhang and Jing was supported by later pre-modern scientists such as Shen Kuo (1031–1095), who expanded on the reasoning of why the Sun and Moon were spherical. The theory of the celestial sphere surrounding a flat, square earth was later criticized by the Jin-dynasty scholar-official Yu Xi (fl. 307-345). He suggested that the Earth could be round like the heavens, a spherical Earth theory fully accepted by mathematician Li Ye (1192-1279) but not by mainstream Chinese science until European influence in the 17th century.\n\nThe outflow clepsydra was a timekeeping device used in China as long ago as the Shang Dynasty (c. 1600–c. 1050 BC), and certainly by the Zhou Dynasty (1122–256 BC). The inflow clepsydra with an indicator rod on a float had been known in China since the beginning of the Han Dynasty in 202 BC and had replaced the outflow type. The Han Chinese noted the problem with the falling pressure head in the reservoir, which slowed the timekeeping of the device as the inflow vessel was filled. Zhang Heng was the first to address this problem, indicated in his writings from 117, by adding an extra compensating tank between the reservoir and the inflow vessel. Zhang also mounted two statuettes of a Chinese immortal and a heavenly guard on the top of the inflow clepsydra, the two of which would guide the indicator rod with their left hand and point out the graduations with their right. Joseph Needham states that this was perhaps the ancestor of all clock jacks that would later sound the hours found in mechanical clocks by the 8th century, but he notes that these figures did not actually move like clock jack figurines or sound the hours. Many additional compensation tanks were added to later clepsydras in the tradition of Zhang Heng. In 610 the Sui Dynasty (581–618) engineers Geng Xun and Yuwen Kai crafted an unequal-armed steelyard balance able to make seasonal adjustments in the pressure head of the compensating tank, so that it could control the rate of water flow for different lengths of day and night during the year. Zhang mentioned a \"jade dragon's neck\", which in later times meant a siphon. He wrote of the floats and indicator-rods of the inflow clepsydra as follows:\n\nBronze vessels are made and placed one above the other at different levels; they are filled with pure water. Each has at the bottom a small opening in the form of a 'jade dragon's neck'. The water dripping (from above) enters two inflow receivers (alternately), the left one being for the night and the right one for the day. On the covers of each (inflow receiver) there are small cast statuettes in gilt bronze; the left (night) one is an immortal and the right (day) one is a policeman. These figures guide the indicator-rod (lit. arrow) with their left hands, and indicate the graduations on it with their right hands, thus giving the time.\n\nZhang Heng is the first person known to have applied hydraulic motive power (i.e. by employing a waterwheel and clepsydra) to rotate an armillary sphere, an astronomical instrument representing the celestial sphere. The Greek astronomer Eratosthenes (276–194 BC) invented the first armillary sphere in 255 BC. The Chinese armillary sphere was fully developed by 52 BC, with the astronomer Geng Shouchang's addition of a permanently fixed equatorial ring. In AD 84  the astronomers Fu An and Jia Kui added the ecliptic ring, and finally Zhang Heng added the horizon and meridian rings. This invention is described and attributed to Zhang in quotations by Hsu Chen and Li Shan, referencing his book \"Lou Shui Chuan Hun Thien I Chieh\" (Apparatus for Rotating an Armillary Sphere by Clepsydra Water). It was likely not an actual book by Zhang, but a chapter from his \"Hun I\" or \"Hun I Thu Chu\", written in 117 AD. His water-powered armillary influenced the design of later Chinese water clocks and led to the discovery of the escapement mechanism by the 8th century. The historian Joseph Needham (1900–1995) states:\n\nWhat were the factors leading to the first escapement clock in China? The chief tradition leading to Yi Xing (AD 725 ) was of course the succession of 'pre-clocks' which had started with Zhang Heng about 125. Reason has been given for believing that these applied power to the slow turning movement of computational armillary spheres and celestial globes by means of a water-wheel using clepsydra drip, which intermittently exerted the force of a lug to act on the teeth of a wheel on a polar-axis shaft. Zhang Heng in his turn had composed this arrangement by uniting the armillary rings of his predecessors into the equatorial armillary sphere, and combining it with the principles of the water-mills and hydraulic trip-hammers which had become so widespread in Chinese culture in the previous century.\n\nZhang did not initiate the Chinese tradition of hydraulic engineering, which began during the mid Zhou Dynasty (c. 6th century BC), through the work of engineers such as Sunshu Ao and Ximen Bao. Zhang's contemporary, Du Shi, (d. AD 38) was the first to apply the motive power of waterwheels to operate the bellows of a blast furnace to make pig iron, and the cupola furnace to make cast iron. Zhang provided a valuable description of his water-powered armillary sphere in the treatise of 125, stating:\n\nThe equatorial ring goes around the belly of the armillary sphere 91 and 5/19 (degrees) away from the pole. The circle of the ecliptic also goes round the belly of the instrument at an angle of 24 (degrees) with the equator. Thus at the summer solstice the ecliptic is 67 (degrees) and a fraction away from the pole, while at the winter solstice it is 115 (degrees) and a fraction away. Hence (the points) where the ecliptic and the equator intersect should give the north polar distances of the spring and autumn equinoxes. But now (it has been recorded that) the spring equinox is 90 and 1/4 (degrees) away from the pole, and the autumn equinox is 92 and 1/4 (degrees) away. The former figure is adopted only because it agrees with the (results obtained by the) method of measuring solstitial sun shadows as embodied in the Xia (dynasty) calendar.\n\nZhang Heng's water-powered armillary sphere had profound effects on Chinese astronomy and mechanical engineering in later generations. His model and its complex use of gears greatly influenced the water-powered instruments of later astronomers such as Yi Xing (683–727), Zhang Sixun (fl. 10th century), Su Song (1020–1101), Guo Shoujing (1231–1316), and many others. Water-powered armillary spheres in the tradition of Zhang Heng's were used in the eras of the Three Kingdoms (220–280) and Jin Dynasty (265–420), yet the design for it was temporarily out of use between 317 and 418, due to invasions of northern Xiongnu nomads. Zhang Heng's old instruments were recovered in 418, when Emperor Wu of Liu Song (r. 420–422) captured the ancient capital of Chang'an. Although still intact, the graduation marks and the representations of the stars, Moon, Sun, and planets were quite worn down by time and rust. In 436, the emperor ordered Qian Luozhi, the Secretary of the Bureau of Astronomy and Calendar, to recreate Zhang's device, which he managed to do successfully. Qian's water-powered celestial globe was still in use at the time of the Liang Dynasty (502–557), and successive models of water-powered armillary spheres were designed in subsequent dynasties.\n\nFrom the earliest times, the Chinese were concerned with the destructive force of earthquakes. It was recorded in Sima Qian's \"Records of the Grand Historian\" of 91 BC that in 780 BC an earthquake had been powerful enough to divert the courses of three rivers. It was not known at the time that earthquakes were caused by the shifting of tectonic plates in the Earth's crust; instead, the people of the ancient Zhou Dynasty explained them as disturbances with cosmic yin and yang, along with the heavens' displeasure with acts committed (or the common peoples' grievances ignored) by the current ruling dynasty. These theories were ultimately derived from the ancient text of the \"Yijing\" (Book of Changes), in its fifty-first hexagram. There were other early theories about earthquakes, developed by those such as the ancient Greeks. Anaxagoras (c. 500–428 BC) believed that they were caused by excess water near the surface crust of the earth bursting into the Earth's hollows; Democritus (c. 460–370 BC) believed that the saturation of the Earth with water caused them; Anaximenes (c. 585–c. 525 BC) believed they were the result of massive pieces of the Earth falling into the cavernous hollows due to drying; and Aristotle (384–322 BC) believed they were caused by instability of vapor (\"pneuma\") caused by the drying of the moist Earth by the Sun's rays.\n\nDuring the Han Dynasty, many learned scholars—including Zhang Heng—believed in the \"oracles of the winds\". These oracles of the occult observed the direction, force, and timing of the winds, to speculate about the operation of the cosmos and to predict events on Earth. These ideas influenced Zhang Heng's views on the cause of earthquakes. Against the grain of earlier theories proposed by his fellow Chinese and contemporary Greeks, Zhang Heng believed that earthquakes were caused by wind and air, writing:\n\nIn 132, Zhang Heng presented to the Han court what many historians consider to be his most impressive invention, the first seismoscope. A seismoscope records the motions of Earth's shaking, but unlike a seismometer, it does not retain a time record of those motions. It was named \"earthquake weathervane\" (\"houfeng didongyi\" 候風地動儀), and it was able to roughly determine the direction (out of eight directions) where the earthquake came from. According to the \"Book of Later Han\" (compiled by Fan Ye in the 5th century), his bronze urn-shaped device, with a swinging pendulum inside, was able to detect the direction of an earthquake hundreds of miles/kilometers away. This was essential for the Han government in sending quick aid and relief to regions devastated by this natural disaster. The \"Book of Later Han\" records that, on one occasion, Zhang's device was triggered, though no observer had felt any seismic disturbance; several days later a messenger arrived from the west and reported that an earthquake had occurred in Longxi (modern Gansu Province), the same direction that Zhang's device had indicated, and thus the court was forced to admit the efficacy of the device.\n\nTo indicate the direction of a distant earthquake, Zhang's device dropped a bronze ball from one of eight tubed projections shaped as dragon heads; the ball fell into the mouth of a corresponding metal object shaped as a toad, each representing a direction like the points on a compass rose. His device had eight mobile arms (for all eight directions) connected with cranks having catch mechanisms at the periphery. When tripped, a crank and right angle lever would raise a dragon head and release a ball which had been supported by the lower jaw of the dragon head. His device also included a vertical pin passing through a slot in the crank, a catch device, a pivot on a projection, a sling suspending the pendulum, an attachment for the sling, and a horizontal bar supporting the pendulum. Wang Zhenduo (王振鐸) argued that the technology of the Eastern Han era was sophisticated enough to produce such a device, as evidenced by contemporary levers and cranks used in other devices such as crossbow triggers.\nLater Chinese of subsequent periods were able to reinvent Zhang's seismoscope. They included the 6th-century mathematician and surveyor Xindu Fang of the Northern Qi Dynasty (550–577) and the astronomer and mathematician Lin Xiaogong of the Sui Dynasty (581–618). Like Zhang, Xindu Fang and Lin Xiaogong were given imperial patronage for their services in craftsmanship of devices for the court. By the time of the Yuan Dynasty (1271–1368), it was acknowledged that all devices previously made were preserved, except for that of the seismoscope. This was discussed by the scholar Zhou Mi around 1290, who remarked that the books of Xindu Fang and Lin Xiaogong detailing their seismological devices were no longer to be found. Horwitz, Kreitner, and Needham speculate if Tang Dynasty (618–907) era seismographs found their way to contemporary Japan; according to Needham, \"instruments of apparently traditional type there in which a pendulum carries pins projecting in many directions and able to pierce a surrounding paper cylinder, have been described.\"\n\nHong-sen Yan states that modern replicas of Zhang's device have failed to reach the level of accuracy and sensitivity described in Chinese historical records. Wang Zhenduo presented two different models of the seismoscope based on the ancient descriptions of Zhang's device. In his 1936 reconstruction, the central pillar (\"du zhu\") of the device was a suspended pendulum acting as a movement sensor, while the central pillar of his second model in 1963 was an inverted pendulum. According to Needham, while working in the Seismological Observatory of Tokyo University in 1939, Akitsune Imamura and Hagiwara made a reconstruction of Zhang's device. While it was John Milne and Wang Zhenduo who argued early on that Zhang's \"central pillar\" was a suspended pendulum, Imamura was the first to propose an inverted model. He argued that transverse shock would have rendered Wang's immobilization mechanism ineffective, as it would not have prevented further motion that could knock other balls out of their position. On June 13, 2005, modern Chinese seismologists announced that they had successfully created a replica of the instrument.\n\nAnthony J. Barbieri-Low, a Professor of Early Chinese History at the University of California, Santa Barbara, names Zhang Heng as one of several high-ranking Eastern-Han officials who engaged in crafts that were traditionally reserved for artisans (\"gong\" 工), such as mechanical engineering. Barbieri-Low speculates that Zhang only designed his seismoscope, but did not actually craft the device himself. He asserts that this would most likely have been the job of artisans commissioned by Zhang. He writes: \"Zhang Heng was an official of moderately high rank and could not be seen sweating in the foundries with the \"gong\" artisans and the government slaves. Most likely, he worked collaboratively with the professional casters and mold makers in the imperial workshops.\"\n\nThe Wei (220–265) and Jin Dynasty (265–420) cartographer and official Pei Xiu (224–271) was the first in China to describe in full the geometric grid reference for maps that allowed for precise measurements using a graduated scale, as well as topographical elevation. However, map-making in China had existed since at least the 4th century BC with the Qin state maps found in Gansu in 1986. Pinpointed accuracy of the winding courses of rivers and familiarity with scaled distance had been known since the Qin and Han Dynasty, respectively, as evidenced by their existing maps, while the use of a rectangular grid had been known in China since the Han as well. Historian Howard Nelson states that, although the accounts of Zhang Heng's work in cartography are somewhat vague and sketchy, there is ample written evidence that Pei Xiu derived the use of the rectangular grid reference from the maps of Zhang Heng. Rafe de Crespigny asserts that it was Zhang who established the rectangular grid system in Chinese cartography. Needham points out that the title of his book \"Flying Bird Calendar\" may have been a mistake, and that the book is more accurately entitled \"Bird's Eye Map\". Historian Florian C. Reiter notes that Zhang's narrative \"Guitian fu\" contains a phrase about applauding the maps and documents of Confucius of the Zhou Dynasty, which Reiter suggests places maps (\"tu\") on a same level of importance with documents (\"shu\"). It is documented that a physical geography map was first presented by Zhang Heng in 116 AD, called a \"Ti Hsing Thu\".\n\nZhang Heng is often credited with inventing the first odometer, an achievement also attributed to Archimedes (c. 287–212 BC) and Heron of Alexandria (fl. AD 10–70). Similar devices were used by the Roman and Han-Chinese empires at about the same period. By the 3rd century, the Chinese had termed the device the \"ji li gu che\", or \"li-recording drum carriage\" (the modern measurement of li = 500 m/1640 ft).\nAncient Chinese texts describe the mechanical carriage's functions; after one li was traversed, a mechanically driven wooden figure struck a drum, and after ten li had been covered, another wooden figure struck a gong or a bell with its mechanically operated arm. However, there is evidence to suggest that the invention of the odometer was a gradual process in Han Dynasty China that centered on the \"huang men\"—court people (i.e. eunuchs, palace officials, attendants and familiars, actors, acrobats, etc.) who followed the musical procession of the royal \"drum-chariot\". There is speculation that at some time during the 1st century BC the beating of drums and gongs was mechanically driven by the rotation of the road wheels. This might have actually been the design of Luoxia Hong (c. 110 BC), yet by at least 125 the mechanical odometer carriage was already known, as it was depicted in a mural of the Xiao Tang Shan Tomb.\n\nThe south-pointing chariot was another mechanical device credited to Zhang Heng. It was a non-magnetic compass vehicle in the form of a two-wheeled chariot. Differential gears driven by the chariot's wheels allowed a wooden figurine (in the shape of a Chinese state minister) to constantly point to the south, hence its name. The \"Song Shu\" (c. AD 500 ) records that Zhang Heng re-invented it from a model used in the Zhou Dynasty era, but the violent collapse of the Han Dynasty unfortunately did not allow it to be preserved. Whether Zhang Heng invented it or not, Ma Jun (200–265) succeeded in creating the chariot in the following century.\n\nZhang Heng's mechanical inventions influenced later Chinese inventors such as Yi Xing, Zhang Sixun, Su Song, and Guo Shoujing. Su Song directly named Zhang's water-powered armillary sphere as the inspiration for his 11th-century clock tower. The cosmic model of nine points of Heaven corresponding with nine regions of earth conceived in the work of the scholar-official Chen Hongmou (1696–1771) followed in the tradition of Zhang's book \"Spiritual Constitution of the Universe\". The seismologist John Milne, who created the modern seismograph in 1876 alongside Thomas Gray and James A. Ewing at the Imperial College of Engineering in Tokyo, commented in 1886 on Zhang Heng's contributions to seismology. The historian Joseph Needham emphasized his contributions to pre-modern Chinese technology, stating that Zhang was noted even in his day for being able to \"make three wheels rotate as if they were one.\" More than one scholar has described Zhang as a polymath. However, some scholars also point out that Zhang's writing lacks concrete scientific theories. Comparing Zhang with his contemporary, Ptolemy (83–161) of Roman Egypt, Jin Guantao, Fan Hongye, and Liu Qingfeng state:\n\nZhang's poetry was widely read during his life and after his death. In addition to the compilation of Xiao Tong mentioned above, the Eastern Wu official Xue Zong (d. 237) wrote commentary on Zhang's poems \"Dongjing fu\" and \"Xijing fu\". The influential poet Tao Qian wrote that he admired the poetry of Zhang Heng for its \"curbing extravagant diction and aiming at simplicity\", in regards to perceived tranquility and rectitude correlating with the simple but effective language of the poet. Tao wrote that both Zhang Heng and Cai Yong \"avoided inflated language, aiming chiefly at simplicity\", and adding that their \"compositions begin by giving free expression to their fancies but end on a note of quiet, serving admirably to restrain undisciplined and passionate nature\".\n\nZhang was given great honors in life and in death. The philosopher and poet Fu Xuan (217–278) of the Wei and Jin dynasties once lamented in an essay over the fact that Zhang Heng was never placed in the Ministry of Works. Writing highly of Zhang and the 3rd-century mechanical engineer Ma Jun, Fu Xuan wrote, \"Neither of them was ever an official of the Ministry of Works, and their ingenuity did not benefit the world. When (authorities) employ personnel with no regard to special talent, and having heard of genius neglect even to test it—is this not hateful and disastrous?\"\n\nIn honor of Zhang's achievements in science and technology, his friend Cui Ziyu (Cui Yuan) wrote a memorial inscription on his burial stele, which has been preserved in the \"Guwen yuan\". Cui stated, \"[Zhang Heng's] mathematical computations exhausted (the riddles of) the heavens and the earth. His inventions were comparable even to those of the Author of Change. The excellence of his talent and the splendour of his art were one with those of the gods.\" The minor official Xiahou Zhan (243–291) of the Wei Dynasty made an inscription for his own commemorative stele to be placed at Zhang Heng's tomb. It read: \"Ever since gentlemen have composed literary texts, none has been as skillful as the Master [Zhang Heng] in choosing his words well ... if only the dead could rise, oh I could then turn to him for a teacher!\"\n\nSeveral things have been named after Zhang in modern times, including the lunar crater Chang Heng, the asteroid 1802 Zhang Heng, and the mineral Zhanghengite. In 2018, China launched a research satellite called China Seismo-Electromagnetic Satellite (CSES) which is also named Zhangheng-1 (ZH-1).\n\n\n"}
