{"id": "51143773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51143773", "title": "Al Balushi", "text": "Al Balushi\n\nAl Balushi (; alternatively Baloushi, Balooshi, Bloushi or Blooshi) is a tribal surname common in Arab states of the Persian Gulf, particularly Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar and om the term \"Balochi\", denoting someone who has Baloch ancestry.\n\nPeople carrying this surname trace their tribal origins to Balochistan, a region located between southwestern Pakistan and southeastern Iran across the Persian Gulf. Their ancestors predominately came from the Makran coast in the 19th century. The Al Balushi speak Arabic, while some also use Balochi or Persian. They are mainly Sunni Muslims. They are a populous tribe in Oman and the UAE.\n\nNotable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27662168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27662168", "title": "Areni-1 shoe", "text": "Areni-1 shoe\n\nThe Areni-1 shoe is a 5,500-year-old leather shoe that was found in 2008 in excellent condition in the Areni-1 cave located in the Vayots Dzor province of Armenia. It is a one-piece leather-hide shoe, the oldest piece of leather footwear in the world known to contemporary researchers. The discovery was made by an international team led by Boris Gasparyan, an archaeologist from the Institute of Archaeology and Ethnography of the National Academy of Sciences of Armenia (co-directors of the project are Ron Pinhasi from University College Cork in Ireland, and Gregory Areshian from UCLA).\n\nAn Armenian post-graduate student, Diana Zardaryan, discovered the leather shoe in the course of excavations by a team of archeologists from Armenia’s Institute of Archaeology and Ethnography, Ireland and the United States. The shoe was found upside down at the base of a shallow, rounded, and plastered pit that was deep and wide, beneath an overturned broken Chalcolithic ceramic bowl. A broken pot and goat horns also were found nearby. Excavations in the same area also found the world's oldest wine-making site.\n\nThe research was funded by the National Geographic Society, the Chitjian Foundation, the Gfoeller Foundation, the Steinmetz Family Foundation, the Boochever Foundation and the Cotsen Institute of Archaeology at UCLA. The team's findings were published on June 9, 2010, in the journal \"PLOS One\".\n\nThe shoe was found in near-perfect condition due to the cool and dry conditions in the cave and a thick layer of sheep dung which acted as a solid seal. Large storage containers were found in the same cave, many of which held well-preserved wheat, barley, and apricots, as well as other edible plants. The shoe contained grass and the archaeologists were uncertain as to whether this was because the grass was used as insulation to keep the foot warm, or used to preserve the shape of the shoe while not being worn. Lead archaeologist Ron Pinhasi could not determine whether the shoe belonged to a man or a woman. While small, approximately a woman's U.S. and Canada size 7, European size 37, or UK size 6, he stated that \"the shoe could well have fitted a man from that era\". The shoe laces were preserved as well.\n\nMajor similarities exist between the manufacturing technique and style of one-piece leather-hide shoes discovered across Europe and the one reported from Areni-1 Cave, suggesting that shoes of this type were worn for millennia across a large and environmentally diverse geographic region. According to Pinhasi, the Areni-1 shoe is similar to the Irish \"pampooties\", a shoe style worn in the Aran Islands up to the 1950s. The shoes are very similar to the traditional shoes of the Balkans, still seen today in festivals, known as Opanci (\"Opanke\").\n\nWhen the material was dated by the two radiocarbon laboratories in Oxford and California, it was established that the shoe dates back to 3,500 B.C. This date is a few hundred years older than the date given for the leather shoe found on Ötzi the Iceman, 400 years older than those found at Stonehenge, and 1,000 years older than those found at the Great Pyramid of Giza.\n\nAfter having been treated for preservation, the Areni-1 shoe is on display at the History Museum of Armenia, Yerevan.\n\n"}
{"id": "35176100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35176100", "title": "Argentine Mexicans", "text": "Argentine Mexicans\n\nThere is a significant Argentine diaspora in Mexico. According to the 2010 census, there were 13,696 registered Argentine citizens living in Mexico, an increase from the 6,465 registered in the 2000 census. Argentine immigrants constitute the second largest community of South Americans in Mexico (after Colombian Mexicans) and the fifth largest immigrant community overall.\n\nThe Argentine-Mexican community is sometimes known as ArgenMex.\n\nArgentines have been in Mexico since at least the 1895 census, and periodic migration has continued following the ebb and flow of the Argentine economy. Both countries share the Spanish language; their historical origins are common (part of the Spanish Empire). With two main emigrant waves; during the 1970s Dirty War and after the 2001 economic crisis.\n\nThe largest Argentine community is in Mexico City (with a sizeable congregation in the Condesa neighborhood) and there are smaller communities in Leon, Guadalajara, Puebla, Cancun, Playa del Carmen, Tulum, Mérida, Monterrey and Tampico. Most Argentines established in Mexico come from the provinces of Buenos Aires, Santa Fe, Cordoba and Tucuman. The Argentine community has participated in the opening of establishments such as restaurants, bars, boutiques, modeling consultants, foreign exchange interbank markets, among other lines of business.\n\nArgentine actors have an important presence in Mexico's television industry. Frequently, actors arrive in Mexico to learn neutral Spanish (based on Mexican Spanish and used for mass media distributed across Latin America, such as dubbed foreign films,) and remain as they find work with one of the country's major television networks. Notable among these actors are the telenovela \"galanes\" (male leads) Juan Soler and Sebastian Rulli. In the music industry, prominent Argentine-Mexicans include Amanda Miguel, Fey and Noel Schajris.\n\nThere has been controversy in Mexico over the inclusion of naturalized Mexicans (especially Argentine-Mexicans) on Mexico's national football team. The arguments range from xenophobic ideas to the belief that Argentines have been granted citizenship in order to be eligible players on the team. Nonetheless, Argentines wanting to attain Mexican citizenship have to do so through meeting naturalization and residency requirements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "682978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682978", "title": "Baggara", "text": "Baggara\n\nThe Baggāra are a grouping of Arab ethnic groups inhabiting the portion of Africa's Sahel mainly between Lake Chad and southern Kordofan, numbering over one million. They are known as Baggara in Sudan, and as Shuwa/Diffa Arabs in Chad and Nigeria. Their name derives from the Arabic word () literally meaning \"cattle herder\". \n\nThey have a common language, Shuwa Arabic, which is one of the regional varieties of Arabic. They also have a common traditional mode of subsistence, nomadic cattle herding, although nowadays many lead a settled existence. Nevertheless, collectively they do not all necessarily consider themselves one people, i.e., a single ethnic group. The term \"baggara culture\" was introduced in 1994 by Braukämper. \n\nThe political use of the term \"baggara\" in Sudan denoting a particular set of tribes is limited to Sudan. It often means a coalition of majority Arabs and a few indigenous African tribes (mainly Fur, Nuba and Fallata) with other Arab tribes of western Sudan (mainly Guhayna), as opposed to Bedouin Abbala Arab tribes. The bulk of \"baggara Arabs\" live in Chad, the rest live, or seasonally migrate to, southwest Sudan (specifically the southern portions of Darfur and Kordofan), and slivers of the Central African Republic, South Sudan, and Niger. Those who are still nomads migrate seasonally between grazing lands in the wet season and river areas in the dry season.\n\nTheir common language is known to academics by various names, such as Chadian Arabic, taken from the regions where the language is spoken. For much of the 20th century, this language was known to academics as \"Shuwa Arabic\", but \"Shuwa\" is a geographically and socially parochial term that has fallen into disuse among linguists specializing in the language, who instead refer to it as \"Chadian Arabic\" depending on the origin of the native speakers being consulted for a given academic project.\n\nThe origin of the Baggara is undetermined. According to a 1994 research paper, the group arose in Chad from 1635 onwards through the fusion of an Arabic speaking population. Like other Arabic speaking tribes in the Sahara and the Sahel, Baggara tribes have origin ancestry from the Juhaynah Arab tribes who migrated directly from the Arabian peninsula or from other parts of north Africa. \n\nBaggara tribes in Sudan include the Gawamaa, Rizeigat, Ta’isha, Beni Halba, and Habbaniya in Darfur, and the Messiria Zurug, Messiria Humur, Hawazma, and Awlad Himayd in Kordofan, and the Beni Selam on the White Nile. For complete and accurate account about Baggara tribes, see: \"Baggara of Sudan: Culture and Environment\". The Misseiria of Jebel Mun speak a Nilo-Saharan language, Miisiirii, related to the Tama of their traditional neighbors.\n\nThe small community of \"Baggara Arabs\" in the southeastern corner of Niger is known as Diffa Arabs for the Diffa Region. They occupy the shore of Lake Chad and migrated from Nigeria since World War II. Most of the Diffa Arabs claim descent from the Mahamid clan of Sudan and Chad.\n\n The Baggara of Darfur and Kordofan were the backbone of the Mahdist revolt against Turko-Egyptian rule in Sudan in the 1880s. The Mahdi's second-in-command, the Khalifa Abdallahi ibn Muhammad, was himself a Baggara of the Ta'aisha tribe. During the Mahdist period (1883–98) tens of thousands of Baggara migrated to Omdurman and central Sudan where they provided many of the troops for the Mahdist armies. \n\nAfter their defeat at the Battle of Karari in 1898, the remnants returned home to Darfur and Kordofan. Under the British system of indirect rule, each of the major Baggara tribes was ruled by its own paramount chief (\"nazir\"). Most of them were loyal members of the Umma Party, headed since the 1960s by Sadiq el Mahdi.\n\nThe main Baggara tribes of Darfur were awarded \"hawakir\" (land grants) by the Fur Sultans in the 1750s. As a result, the four largest Baggara tribes of Darfur—the Rizeigat, Habbaniya, Beni Halba and Ta’isha—have been only marginally involved in the Darfur conflict. However, the Baggara have been deeply involved in other conflicts in both Sudan and Chad. Starting in 1985, the Government of Sudan armed many of the local tribes among them the Rizeigat of south Darfur and the Messiria and Hawazma of neighboring Kordofan as militia to fight a proxy war against the Sudan People's Liberation Army in their areas. They formed frontline units as well as \"Murahleen\", mounted raiders that attacked southern villages to loot valuables and slaves.\nThe Baggara people (and subgroups) were armed by the Sudanese government to participate in the counterinsurgency against the Sudanese People’s Liberation Army. The first attacks against villages by the Baggara were staged in the Nuba Mountains. The Sudanese government promoted attacks by promising the Baggara people no interference so they could seize animals and land. They formed the precursors to the Janjaweed - an infamous para-military.\n\nDuring the Second Sudanese Civil War thousands of Dinka women and children were abducted and subsequently enslaved by members of the Missiriya and Rezeigat tribes. An unknown number of children from the Nuba tribe were similarly abducted and enslaved. In Darfur, a Beni Halba militia force was organized by the government to defeat an SPLA force led by Daud Bolad in 1990-91. However, by the mid-1990s the various Baggara groups had mostly negotiated local truces with the SPLA forces. The leaders of the major Baggara tribes declared that they had no interest in joining the fighting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3929582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3929582", "title": "Calpulli", "text": "Calpulli\n\nIn precolumbian Aztec society, a calpulli (from Classical Nahuatl \"calpōlli\", , meaning \"large house\") was the designation of an organizational unit below the level of the altepetl \"city-state\". A Nahua city-state was divided into a number of calpullis, whose inhabitants were collectively responsible for different organizational and religious tasks in relation to the larger altepetl. Calpullis controlled land which was available for calpulli members to cultivate and also operated the Tēlpochcalli schools for young men of commoner descent. In Aztec culture, as in most other civilizations, the family unit was very important. There were several levels of organization in Aztec family life beginning with the base family unit. The base family unit consisted of two parents and their unmarried children. The main functions of the base family unit were education of the children and food preparation. Many base family units, however, banded together to form extended families. The households of extended families were usually composed of several brothers and their families. The primary functions of the extended families were to coordinate land use and food production (such as growing crops). In most cases, extended families contained just a few base family units. In large cities, however, they often grew to many more.\n\nAlthough extended families farmed the land, they usually did not own it. They were allowed to use it by the calpulli to which they belonged. Calpulli were groups of families that controlled the use of the land and performed other territorial functions, as well as social ones. The majority of calpulli had a telpuchcalli, a school for young men. Another function of the calpulli was a taxation unit. The empire collected taxes from each calpulli, which in turn collected taxes from its member families.\n\nMost rural calpulli were based on lineage. In other words, the members of a rural calpulli believed that they were descended from a common ancestor. In the cities, the calpulli were based more on geographical, political, and occupational similarities than lineage. In both cases, calpulli were tightly knit and sometimes were even somewhat isolated from other calpulli, both politically and physically.\nThe nature of the interrelatedness between the members of the calpulli is a matter of debate. Traditionally it has been argued that the calpulli was firstly a family unit in which the inhabitants were related through blood and intermarriage. Other scholars such as Van Zantwijk (1985) deny that this was necessarily the case. Van Zantwijk demonstrates that at least in some altepetl the family-based nature of the calpulli was replaced with a hierarchical structure based on wealth and prestige. Newcomers from other altepetl were allowed to settle down and become part of the calpulli. Michael Smith (2003) shows that in some Nahua cities, notably Otumba, each calpulli specialised in a trade and took almost the form of a trade guild.\n\nThe wards of Tenochtitlan, the Aztec capital, were also known as \"calpulli\". The exact number of calpullis within the city is not known but Van Zantwijk (1985) based his calculations on a wide array of ethnohistorical sources. Van Zantwijk reached a number of 20 calpullis, 7 of which represented the original founding groups of Tenochtitlan and the remaining 13 being composed by groups coming to the city at later points in its development. Van Zantwijk assumed that each calpulli was ritually connected to one of the twenty day names. Below is a list of the twenty calpullis of Tenochtitlan based on the data from Van Zantwijk (1985): \n\nFounding calpullis\n\nNew calpullis\n"}
{"id": "12052170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12052170", "title": "Central Atlas Tamazight", "text": "Central Atlas Tamazight\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight (also known as Central Morocco Tamazight, Middle Atlas Tamazight, Tamazight, Central Shilha and, rarely, Beraber or Braber; native name: ⵜⴰⵎⴰⵣⵉⵖⵜ \"Tamazight\" ) is a Berber language of the Afroasiatic language family spoken by 3 to 5 million people in the Atlas Mountains of Central Morocco as well as by smaller emigrant communities in France and elsewhere.\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight is one of the most-spoken Berber languages, along with Kabyle, Shilha, Riff, Shawiya and Tuareg. In Morocco, it rivals Shilha as the most-spoken. All five languages may be referred to as \"Tamazight\", but Central Atlas speakers are the only ones who use the term exclusively. As is typical of Afroasiatic languages, Tamazight has a series of \"emphatic consonants\" (realized as pharyngealized), uvulars, pharyngeals and lacks the phoneme /p/. Tamazight has a phonemic three-vowel system but also has numerous words without vowels.\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight (unlike neighbouring Tashelhit) had no known significant writing tradition until the 20th century. It is now officially written in the Tifinagh script for instruction in Moroccan schools, while descriptive linguistic literature commonly uses the Latin alphabet, and the Arabic alphabet has also been used.\n\nThe standard word order is verb–subject–object but sometimes subject–verb–object. Words inflect for gender, number and state, using prefixes, suffixes and circumfixes. Verbs are heavily inflected, being marked for tense, aspect, mode, voice, person of the subject and polarity, sometimes undergoing ablaut. Pervasive borrowing from Arabic extends to all major word classes, including verbs; borrowed verbs, however, are conjugated according to native patterns, including ablaut.\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight is one of the four most-spoken Berber languages, in addition to Kabyle, Shilha, and Riff, and rivals Shilha as the most-spoken Berber language in Morocco. Differentiating these dialects is complicated by the fact that speakers of other languages may also refer to their language as 'Tamazight'. The differences between all three groups are largely phonological and lexical, rather than syntactic. Tamazight itself has a relatively large degree of internal diversity, including whether spirantization occurs.\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight speakers refer to themselves as \"Amazigh\" (pl. \"Imazighen\"), an endonymic ethnonym whose etymology is uncertain, but may translate as \"free people\". The term \"Tamazight\", the feminine form of \"Amazigh\", refers to the language. Both words are also used self-referentially by other Berber groups to replace local terms such as ašəlḥi or rifi, although Central Atlas Tamazight speakers use them regularly and exclusively.\n\nIn older studies, Central Atlas Tamazight is sometimes referred to as \"Braber\" / \"Beraber\", a dialetical Arabic term, or its Tamazight equivalent \"Taberbrit\". This is related to the Standard Arabic and English term \"Berber\", used to refer to all Berber dialects/languages, though eschewed by many Berbers because its etymology is pejorative.\n\nTamazight belongs to the Berber branch of the Afroasiatic language family; Afroasiatic subsumes a number of languages in North Africa and Southwest Asia including the Semitic languages, the Egyptian language, and the Chadic and Cushitic languages. Along with most other Berber languages, Tamazight has retained a number of widespread Afroasiatic features, including a two-gender system, verb–subject–object (VSO) typology, emphatic consonants (realized in Tamazight as pharyngealized), a templatic morphology, and a causative morpheme /s/ (the latter also found in other macrofamilies, such as the Niger–Congo languages.) Within Berber, Central Atlas Tamazight belongs, along with neighbouring Tashelhiyt, to the Atlas branch of the Northern Berber subgroup.\n\nTamazight is in the middle of a dialect continuum between Riff to its north-east and Shilha to its south-west. The basic lexicon of Tamazight differs markedly from Shilha, and its verbal system is more similar to Riff or Kabyle. Moreover, Tamazight has a greater amount of internal diversity than Shilha.\n\nTamazight's dialects are divided into three distinct subgroups and geographic regions: those spoken in the Middle Atlas mountains; those spoken in the High Atlas mountains; and those spoken in Jbel Saghro and its foothills. Although the characteristic spirantization of > ; > or ; > ; > or ; and > , or is apparent in Berber languages in central and northern Morocco and Algeria, as in many Middle Atlas dialects, it is more rare in High Atlas Tamazight speakers, and is absent in Tamazight speakers from the foothills of Jbel Saghro. Southern dialects (e.g. Ayt Atta) may also be differentiated syntactically: while other dialects predicate with the auxiliary /d/ (e.g. /d argaz/ \"it's a man\"), Southern dialects use the typically (High Atlas, Souss-Basin rural country, Jbel Atlas Saghro) auxiliary verb /g/ (e.g. /iga argaz/ \"it's a man\"). The differences between each of the three groups are primarily phonological.\n\nGroups speaking Tamazight include: Ait Ayache, Ait Morghi, Ait Alaham, Ait Youb, Marmoucha, Ait Youssi, Beni Mguild, Zayane, Zemmour, Ait Rbaa, Ait Seri, Guerouane, Ait Segougou, Ait Yafelman, Ait Sikhmane, Ayt Ndhir (Beni Mtir).\n\nThere is some ambiguity as to the eastern boundary of Central Atlas Tamazight. The dialect of the Ait Seghrouchen and Ait Ouarain tribes are commonly classed as Central Atlas Tamazight, and Ait Seghrouchen is reported to be mutually intelligible with the neighbouring Tamazight dialect of Ait Ayache. Genetically, however, they belong to the Zenati subgroup of Northern Berber, rather than to the Atlas subgroup to which the rest of Central Atlas Tamazight belongs, and are therefore excluded by some sources from Central Atlas Tamazight. The Ethnologue lists another group of Zenati dialects, South Oran Berber (\"ksours sud-oranais\"), as a dialect of Central Atlas Tamazight, but these are even less similar, and are treated by Berber specialists as a separate dialect group.\n\nThe Berbers have lived in North Africa between western Egypt and the Atlantic Ocean since before recorded history began in the region about 33 centuries ago. By the 5th century BC, the city of Carthage, founded by Phoenicians, had extended its hegemony across much of North Africa; in the wake of the Punic Wars, Rome replaced it as regional hegemon. The Central Atlas region itself remained independent throughout the classical period, but occasional loanwords into Central Atlas Tamazight, such as \"ayugu\", \"plough ox\", from Latin \"iugum\", \"team of oxen\" and \"aẓalim\" \"onion\" < Punic \"bṣal-im\", bear witness to their ancestors' contact with these conquerors.\n\nArabs conquered the area of modern-day Morocco and Algeria around the 7th century, prompting waves of Arab migration and Berber adoption of Islam. Particularly following the arrival of the Banu Hilal in modern-day Tunisia in the 11th century, more and more of North Africa became Arabic-speaking over the centuries. However, along with other high mountainous regions of North Africa, the Middle Atlas continued to speak Berber.\n\nBetween the 12th and 15th centuries, the Central Atlas, along with the rest of Morocco, successively fell within the domain of the Berber Almoravid, Almohad, and Marinid dynasties. Since the 17th century the region has acknowledged the rule of the Alaouite Dynasty, the current Moroccan royal family. However, effective control of the region was limited; until the 20th century much of the Central Atlas was in a condition of \"siba\", recognising the spiritual legitimacy of royal authority but rejecting its political claims. The expansion of the Ait Atta starting from the 16th century brought Tamazight back into the already Arabised Tafilalt region and put other regional tribes on the defensive, leading to the formation of the Ait Yafelman alliance.\n\nThe 1912 Treaty of Fez made most of Morocco a French-Spanish protectorate (under French and Spanish military occupation), leaving the Alaouite monarchy but establishing a French military presence in the Atlas region and installing a French commissioner-general. However, the Berber tribes of the Middle Atlas, as in other areas, put up stiff military resistance to French rule, lasting until 1933 in the case of the Ait Atta.\n\nAfter Morocco's independence in 1956, a strong emphasis was laid on the country's Arab identity, and a national Arabic language educational system was instituted, in which Berber languages, including Middle Atlas Tamazight, had no place. However, in 1994 the government responded to Berber demands for recognition by decreeing that Berber should be taught and establishing television broadcasts in three Berber languages, including Central Atlas Tamazight. For the promotion of Tamazight and other Berber languages and cultures, the government created the Royal Institute of Amazigh Culture (IRCAM) in 2001.\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight is among the four most-spoken Berber languages (the other three being Kabyle, Shilha, and Riff),<ref name=\"looklex/berber_l\"></ref> and rivals Shilha as the most-spoken Berber language in Morocco. Central Atlas Tamazight is mostly spoken in the entire Middle Atlas and its outcroppings, reaching east to Taza and west to the region near Rabat. It is also spoken in the central and eastern High Atlas mountains in Morocco. It is thus spoken across areas with widely varying ecological conditions — from the mountainous and forested regions of the Middle Atlas mountains to the oases of the northwestern Sahara (\"Tafilalt\"). Berber in Morocco is spread into three areas: Riff in the north, Central Atlas in the center, and Shilha in the south/southwest. Central Atlas is not mutually intelligible with the Riff language but is with the Shilha dialect; Shilha- and Riff-speakers also cannot understand each other, That said, the Riffian language is of course related to both Shilha and Atlas Tamazight, and even though Riffian and the other two are not mutually intelligible, they share a high degree of the same vocabulary and grammar.\n\nFigures for the number of speakers of Berber languages are generally a matter of estimates rather than linguistic censuses. At least a third of Moroccans seem to speak Berber languages. Tamazight is estimated to be spoken by about 40~49% of Morocco's Berber-speakers, while Shilha commands 32~40% and Riff 20~25%.\n\nTamazight, along with other Berber languages of Morocco, has a low sociolinguistic status, used mainly in the home, and rarely in official or formal contexts. Media broadcasts and music are available in it, and there is a policy of teaching it in schools.\n\nOf the Central Atlas Tamazight speakers, 40–45% are monolingual, while the others use Arabic as a second language. Monolingual speakers consist mostly of older generations and children. Women are more likely to be monolingual than men, since they typically stay in the village while the men go to work in the cities. Since Tamazight is the language of the home, girls grow up speaking Berber languages and pass them on to their children — this gender stratification helps to preserve the language. Bilingual Berber speakers have learned Moroccan Arabic via schooling, migration, media, or through the government. Most rural Berber children are monolingual. They struggle to succeed in schools where the teachers do not speak Berber, and require them to learn both Arabic and French.\n\nRural Morocco, including the Central Atlas area, suffers from poverty. Tamazight along with its relative Shilha are undergoing \"contraction\" as rural families, motivated by economic necessity, move to cities and stop speaking Tamazight, leading many intellectuals to fear Berber language shift or regression. However, Tamazight speakers are reported to immigrate less than many other Berber groups. Moreover, Tamazight has a large enough body of native speakers not to be considered under risk of endangerment, although Tamazight speakers reportedly have a lower birth rate than the country of Morocco as a whole.\n\nAs of the Moroccan constitutional referendum, 2011, the Berber languages are official in Morocco alongside Arabic. In 1994, King Hassan II declared that a national Berber dialect would acquire a formal status; television broadcasts are summarized in Tamazight, as well as Shilha and Rif, three times a day; and educational materials for schools are being developed. On October 17, 2001 King Mohammed VI sealed the decree (Dahir 1–01–299) creating and organizing the Royal Institute of Amazigh Culture (IRCAM). IRCAM's board is composed of Amazigh experts, artists, and activists, all of whom are appointed by the king. The institute, located in Rabat, has played an important role in the establishment of the Tifinagh script in Morocco. There are multiple political parties and cultural associations in Morocco that advocate for the advancement of Berber, calling for it to be recognized as an official language, used more extensively in the mass media, and taught more in schools.\n\nA legal issue affecting Tamazight speakers is restrictions on naming - Moroccan law stipulates that first names must have a \"Moroccan character\", and uncommon names, including some Berber ones used in the Central Atlas, are often rejected by the civil registry.\n\nUntil the 20th century Tamazight, like many other Berber languages but in contrast with neighbouring Tashelhiyt, was basically unwritten (although sporadic cases, using Arabic script, are attested.) It was preserved through oral use in rural areas, isolated from urban hubs. Scholars from the Middle Atlas, as elsewhere in North Africa, usually wrote in the more prestigious Arabic language, rather than their vernacular.\n\nAt present three writing systems exist for Berber languages, including Tamazight: Neo-Tifinagh, the Latin alphabet and the Arabic script. To some extent, the choice of writing system is a political one, with various subgroups expressing preference based on ideology and politics. The orthography used for government services including schooling is Neo-Tifinagh, rendered official by a Dahir of King Mohammed VI based on the recommendation of IRCAM. However, various Latin transcriptions have been used in a number of linguistic works describing Central Atlas Tamazight, notably the dictionary of Taïfi (1991).\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight has a contrastive set of \"flat\" consonants, manifested in two ways:\n\n\nNote that pharyngealization may spread to a syllable or even a whole word. Historically Proto-Berber only had two pharyngealized phonemes (), but modern Berber languages have borrowed others from Arabic and developed new ones through sound shifts.\n\nIn addition Tamazight has uvular and pharyngeal consonants, as well as a conspicuous lack of in its plosive inventory.\n\nAll segments may be geminated except for the pharyngeals . In Ayt Ndhir, which is a dialect of Tamazight with spirantization, the spirantizeable consonants appear in their stop forms when geminated, and additionally the geminate correspondents of are usually respectively. However some native Berber words have (not ) where other dialects have singleton , and similarly for . In addition, in Arabic loans singleton non-spirantized occur (though and to an extent often alternate with their spirantized versions in loans), giving this alternation marginal phonemic status.\n\nIn the table below, when consonants appear in pairs, the one on the left is voiceless.\n\nPhonetic notes:\n\nTamazight has a typical phonemic three-vowel system:\n\nThese phonemes have numerous allophones, conditioned by the following environments:\n\nPhonetic Schwa\n\nThere is a predictable non-phonemic vowel inserted into consonant clusters, realized as before front consonants (e.g. ) and before back consonants (e.g. . It is voiced before voiced consonants and voiceless before voiceless consonants, or alternatively it can be realized as a voiced or unvoiced consonant release. It also may be realized as the syllabicity of a nasal, lateral, or /r/.\n\nThe occurrence of schwa epenthesis is governed morphophonemically. These are some of the rules governing the occurrence of :\n\nExamples:\n\nHowever note that word-initial initial are realized as before consonants. In word-medial or -final position , , and are realized as , , and respectively, and may become and in rapid speech.\n\nTamazight in fact has numerous words without phonemic vowels, and those consisting entirely of voiceless consonants will not phonetically contain voiced vowels.\n\nWord stress is non-contrastive and predictable — it falls on the last vowel in a word (including schwa).\n\nExamples:\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight grammar has many features typical of Afro-Asiatic languages, including extensive apophony in both the derivational and inflectional morphology, gender, possessive suffixes, VSO typology, the causative morpheme /s/, and use of the status constructus.\n\nTamazight nouns are inflected for gender, number, and state. Singular masculine nouns usually have the prefix /a-/, and singular feminines the circumfix . Plurals may either involve a regular change (\"sound plurals\"), internal vowel change (\"broken plurals\"), or a combination of the two. Masculine plurals usually take the prefix , feminines , and sound plurals also take the suffix in masculine and } in feminine, although many other plural patterns are found too.\n\nExamples:\n\nNouns may be put into the construct state (contrasting with free state) to indicate possession, or when the subject of a verb follows the verb. This is also used for nouns following numerals and some prepositions, as well as the conjunction ('and'). The construct state is formed as follows: in masculines, initial becomes , initial becomes , and initial becomes . In feminines, initial usually becomes , initial usually becomes , and initial remains unchanged.\n\nExamples (in Ayt Ayache):\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight's personal pronouns distinguish three persons, and two genders. Pronouns appear in three forms: an independent form used in the subject position, a possessive suffix (and a derived independent possessive pronoun), and an object form affixed to the controlling verb.\n\nDemonstrative pronouns distinguish between proximate and remote. When they occur independently, they inflect for number. They may also be suffixed to nouns, e.g. /tabardaja/ 'this pack-saddle'.\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight verbs are heavily inflected, being marked for tense, aspect, mode, voice, person, and polarity. Tamazight verbs have at their core a stem, modified by prefixes, suffixes, moveable affixes, circumfixes, and ablaut. The prefixes indicate voice, tense, aspect, and polarity, while the suffixes indicate mood (normal, horatory, or imperative). Subject markers are circumfixed to the verb, while object marking and satellite framing are accomplished via either prefixing or suffixing depending on environment Some verb forms are accompanied by ablaut, and sometimes metathesis.\n\nPronominal complement markers cliticize to the verb, with the indirect object preceding the direct object, e.g. /iznz-as-t/ \"he sold it to him\".\n\nAttributive Adjectives after the noun they modify, and inflect for number and gender. Adjectives may also occur alone, in which case they become an NP. Practically all adjectives also have a verbal form used for predicative purposes, which behaves just like a normal verb.\n\nPrepositions include ('on'), ('before'), ('to'), and the proclitics ('of') and ('with, and'). These may take pronominal suffixes. Some prepositions require the following noun to be in the construct state, while others do not.\n\nWord order is usually VSO (with the subject in construct state) but sometimes is SVO (with the subject in free state), e.g. ( vs. 'the Berber went out'). Tamazight also exhibits pro-drop behavior.\nTamazight may use a null copula, but the word 'to be, to do' can function as a copula in Ayt Ayache, especially in structures preceded by /aj/ 'who, which, what'.\n\nwh- questions are always clefts, and multiple wh-questions do not occur. Consequently, Tamazight's clefting, relativisation, and wh-interrogation contribute to anti-agreement effects, similar to Shilha, and causes deletion of the verbal person marker in certain situations.\n\nAs a result of relatively intense language contact, Central Atlas Tamazight has a large stratum of Arabic loans. Many borrowed words in Berber also have native synonyms, e.g. /lbab/ or /tiflut/ 'door', the latter used more in rural areas. The contact was unequal, as Moroccan Arabic has not borrowed as much from Berber languages, though Berber has contributed to Moroccan and Algerian Arabics' very reduced vowel systems.\n\nArabic loans span a wide range of lexical classes. Many nouns begin with /l-/, from the Arabic definite prefix, and some Arabic feminines may acquire the native Berber feminine ending /-t/, e.g. /lʕafit/ for /lʕafia/ 'fire'. Many Arabic loans have been integrated into the Tamazight verb lexicon. They adhere fully to inflectional patterns of native stems, and may even undergo ablaut. Even function words are borrowed, e.g. /blli/ or /billa/ 'that', /waxxa/ 'although', /ɣir/ 'just', etc.\n\nThe first few (1–3 in Ayt Ayache and Ayt Ndhir) cardinal numerals have native Berber and borrowed Arabic forms. All higher cardinals are borrowed from Arabic, consistent with the linguistic universals that the numbers 1–3 are much more likely to be retained, and that a borrowed number generally implies that numbers greater than it are also borrowed. The retention of one is also motivated by the fact that Berber languages near-universally use unity as a determiner.\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight uses a bipartate negative construction (e.g. /uriffiɣ ʃa/ 'he did not go out') which apparently was modeled after proximate Arabic varieties, in a common development known as Jespersen's Cycle. It is present in multiple Berber varieties, and is argued to have originated in neighboring Arabic and been adopted by contact.\n\nUniversal Declaration of Human Rights:\n\nⵉⵎⴷⴰⵏⴻⵏ, ⴰⴽⴽⵏ ⵎⴰ ⵍⵍⴰⵏ ⵜⵜⵍⴰⵍⵏ ⴷ ⵉⵍⴻⵍⵍⵉⵢⵏ ⵎⵙⴰⵡⴰⵏ ⴷⵉ ⵍⵃⵡⵕⵎⴰ ⴷ ⵢⵉⵣⵔⴼⴰⵏ ⵖⵓⵔ ⵙⵏ ⵜⴰⵎⵙⴰⴽⵡⵉⵜ ⴷ ⵍⵄⵇⵍ ⵓ ⵢⵙⵙⴼⴽ ⴰⴷ ⵜⵉⵍⵉ ⵜⴳⵎⴰⵜ ⴳⴰⵔ ⴰⵙⵏ\n\nImdanen, akken ma llan ttlalen d ilelliyen msawan di lḥweṛma d yizerfan ɣur sen tamsakwit d leɛqel u yessefk ad tili tegmat gar asen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4607152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4607152", "title": "Climate change adaptation", "text": "Climate change adaptation\n\nClimate change adaptation is a response to global warming (also known as \"climate change\" or \"anthropogenic climate change\"), that seeks to reduce the vulnerability of social and biological systems to relatively sudden change and thus offset the effects of global warming. Even if emissions are stabilized relatively soon, global warming and its effects should last many years, and adaptation would be necessary to the resulting changes in climate. Adaptation is especially important in developing countries since those countries are predicted to bear the brunt of the effects of global warming. That is, the capacity and potential for humans to adapt (called adaptive capacity) is unevenly distributed across different regions and populations, and developing countries generally have less capacity to adapt. Furthermore, the degree of adaptation correlates to the situational focus on environmental issues. Therefore, adaptation requires the situational assessment of sensitivity and vulnerability to environmental impacts.\n\nAdaptive capacity is closely linked to social and economic development according to the IPCC. The economic costs of adaptation to climate change are likely to cost billions of dollars annually for the next several decades, though the amount of money needed is unknown. Donor countries promised an annual $100 billion by 2020 through the Green Climate Fund for developing countries to adapt to climate change. However, while the fund was set up during COP16 in Cancún, concrete pledges by developed countries have not been forthcoming. The adaptation challenge grows with the magnitude and the rate of climate change.\n\nAnother response to climate change is known as climate change mitigation. It advocates to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions or enhance the removal of these gases from the atmosphere (through carbon sinks). Even the most effective reductions in emissions, however, would not prevent further climate change impacts, making the need for adaptation unavoidable. A study has concluded, with very high confidence, that in the absence of mitigation efforts, the effects of climate change would reach such a magnitude as to make adaptation impossible for some natural ecosystems. Others are concerned that climate adaptation programs might interfere with the existing development programs and thus lead to unintended consequences for vulnerable groups. For human systems, the economic and social costs of unmitigated climate change would be very high.\n\nThe projected effects for the environment and for civilization are numerous and varied. The main effect is an increasing global average temperature. The average surface temperature could increase by 3 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately 1.67 to 5.56 degrees Celsius) by the end of the century if carbon emissions aren't reduced. This causes a variety of secondary effects, namely, changes in patterns of precipitation, rising sea levels, altered patterns of agriculture, increased extreme weather events, the expansion of the range of tropical diseases, and the opening of new marine trade routes.\n\nPotential effects include sea level rise of between 1990 and 2100, repercussions to agriculture, possible slowing of the thermohaline circulation, reductions in the ozone layer, increased intensity and frequency of extreme weather events, lowering of ocean pH, and the spread of tropical diseases such as malaria and dengue fever.\n\nA summary of probable effects and recent understanding can be found in the report made for the IPCC Third Assessment Report by Working Group II. The 2007 contribution of Working Group II detailing the impacts of global warming for the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report has been summarized for policymakers.\n\nAdaptation is handicapped by uncertainty over the effects of global warming on specific locations such as the Southwestern United States or phenomena such as the Indian monsoon predicted to increase in frequency and intensity.\n\nIPCC Working Group II,\nthe United States National Academy of Sciences,\nthe United Nations Disaster Risk Reduction Office,\nand other science policy experts agree that while mitigating the emission of greenhouse gases is important, adaptation to the effects of global warming will still be necessary.\nSome, like the UK Institution of Mechanical Engineers, worry that mitigation efforts will largely fail.\nThe IPCC group points out that the world's ability to mitigate global warming is an economic and political challenge. Given that greenhouse gas levels are already elevated, the lag of decades between emissions and some impacts, and the significant economic and political challenges of success, the IPCC group points out that it is uncertain how much climate change \"will\" be mitigated.\n\nDeveloping countries are the least able to adapt to climate change. Doing so depends on such factors as wealth, technology, education, infrastructure, access to resources, management capabilities, acceptance of the existence of climate change and the consequent need for action, and sociopolitical will.\n\nAfter assessing the literature on sustainability and climate change scientists concluded with high confidence that up to the year 2050, an effort to cap GHG emissions at 550 ppm would benefit developing countries significantly. This was judged to be especially the case when combined with enhanced adaptation. By 2100, however, it was still judged likely that there would be significant climate change impacts. This was judged to be the case even with aggressive mitigation and significantly enhanced adaptive capacity.\n\nThe IPCC group also pointed out that climate change adaptation measures can reinforce and be reinforced by efforts to promote sustainable development and reduce poverty.\n\nAdaptation and mitigation can be viewed as two competing policy responses, with tradeoffs between the two. The other tradeoff is with climate change impacts. In practice, however, the actual tradeoffs are debatable. This is because the people who bear emission reduction costs or benefits are often different from those who pay or benefit from adaptation measures.\n\nEconomists, using cost-benefit analysis, have attempted to calculate an \"optimal\" balance of the costs and benefits between climate change impacts, adaptation, and mitigation. There are difficulties in doing this calculation, for example, future climate change damages are uncertain, as are the future costs of adaptation.\n\nAlso, deciding what \"optimal\" is depends on value judgements made by the economist doing the study (Azar, 1998). For example, how to value impacts occurring in different regions and different times, and \"non-market\" impacts, e.g., damages to ecosystems. Economics cannot provide definitive answers to these questions over valuation, and some valuations may be viewed as being controversial (Banuri \"et al.\", 1996, pp. 87, 99).\n\nSome reviews indicate that policymakers are uncomfortable with using the results of this type of economic analysis. This is due to the uncertainties surrounding cost estimates for climate change damages, adaptation, and mitigation. Another type of analysis is based on a risk-based approach to the problem. It has been argued that adaptation could play an important role in climate policy, but not in an explicit trade-off against mitigation.\n\nMany scientists, policy makers, and the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report have agreed that disadvantaged nations need to do more to adapt to climate change, especially highly populated regions of developing countries with low adaptive capacity.\n\nThe United Nations Development Programme estimated that an additional USD $86 billion per year would be needed in 2015.\n\nAccording to UNFCCC estimates in 2007, costs of adaptation to climate change would cost $49–171 billion per year globally by 2030, of which a significant share of the additional investment and financial flows, USD $28–67 billion would be needed in 2030 in non-Annex I Parties. This represents a doubling of current official development assistance (ODA).\n\nThis estimate has been critiqued by some scientists who argues that the UNFCCC estimate underestimates the cost of adaptation to climate change by a factor of 2 or 3. Moreover, sectors such as tourism, mining, energy, and retail were not included in the UNFCCC estimate.\n\nThe more recent World Bank Study, \"Economics of Adaptation to Climate Change\", found that the costs of adaptation would be in the range of $75–100 billion per year between 2010 and 2050; with higher estimates under the wetter global scenario than the drier scenario, assuming that warming will be about 2 degrees by 2050.\n\nThe benefits of strong, early action on mitigation considerably outweigh the costs. The Copenhagen Accord was agreed on in order to create a commitment by developed countries to provide:\n\nHowever, a key point of contention between states at the UNFCC Copenhagen Climate Summit was who was to foot the bill and if aid is to be given, how is it to affect other levels of development aid. The concept of additionality has thus arisen and the EU has asked its member states to come up with definitions of what they understand additionality to mean, the four main definitions are:\nThe main point being that there is a conflict between the OECD states budget deficit cuts, the need to help developing countries adapt to develop sustainably and the need to ensure that funding does not come from cutting aid to other important Millennium Development Goals. This is important, because international development through the sustainable (or millennium) development goals may be essential for a long-term solution to climate change .\n\n, the aggregate of current climate change adaptation programs will not raise enough money to fund adaptation to climate change.\nThere are, however, several programs and proposals to finance adaptation to climate change in developing countries. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) runs a program called the Global Environmental Facility, which provides some funding for adaptation to least developed countries and small island states. Under the GEF umbrella, the GEF Trust Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fund (LDCF), and the Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF) operate to carry out the climate change adaptation financing goals of the GEF.\n\nAnother UNFCCC mechanism is The Adaptation Fund, as a result of negotiations during COP15 and COP16, which provides funds for projects that prove to have additional benefits for adaptation to climate change. The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), set up as part of the Kyoto Protocol to the Framework Convention, is the main source of income for the UNFCCC Adaptation Fund. This fund was established in 2007. The CDM is subject to a 2% levy, which could raise between $300 million and $600 million over the 2008-12 period. The actual amount raised will depend on the carbon price. , The Adaptation Fund has not yet disbursed any funding; a call for proposals was issued in April 2010. UNFCCC funding for Least Developed Countries includes development of a National Adaptation Programme of Action, which prioritizes requests to fund specific adaptation projects.\n\nThere are several other climate change adaptation finance proposals, most of which employ official development assistance or ODA. These proposals range from a World Bank program, to proposals involving auctioning of carbon allowances, to a global carbon or transportation tax, to compensation-based funding.\nOther proposals suggest using market-based mechanisms, rather than ODA, such as the Higher Ground Foundation's vulnerability reduction credit (VRC™) or a program similar to the Clean Development Mechanism, to raise private money for climate change adaptation.\nThe Copenhagen Accord, the most recent global climate change agreement, commits developed countries to goal of sending $100 billion per year to developing countries in assistance for climate change mitigation and adaptation through 2020. This agreement, while not binding, would dwarf current amounts dedicated to adaptation in developing countries. This climate change fund is called the Green Climate Fund from the 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference.\n\nMany developing countries prioritize economic development over addressing the issue of climate change, as they are more concerned about pre-existing problems such as poverty, malnutrition, food insecurity, availability of drinking water, indebtedness, illiteracy, unemployment, local resource conflicts, and lower technological development. It has even been argued that international development through the sustainable development goals, is essential for a long-term solution to climate change . On the other hand, climate change threatens to exacerbate or stall progress on fixing some of these pre-existing problems. Advocates have thus proposed integrating climate change adaptation into poverty reduction programs. \n\nAdaptive policy can occur at the global, national, or local scale, with outcomes dependent on the political will in that area. Scheraga and Grambsch identify 9 fundamental principles to be considered when designing adaptation policy.\n\n\nScheraga and Grambsch make it clear that climate change policy is impeded by the high level of variance surrounding climate change impacts as well as the diverse nature of the problems they face.\n\nAdaptation can mitigate the adverse impacts of climate change, but it will incur costs and will not prevent all damage. The IPCC points out that many adverse effects of climate change are not changes in the average conditions, but changes in the variation or the extremes of conditions. For example, the average sea level in a port might not be as important as the height of water during a storm surge (which causes flooding); the average rainfall in an area might not be as important as how frequent and severe droughts and extreme precipitation events become. Additionally, effective adaptive policy can be difficult to implement because policymakers are rewarded more for enacting short-term change, rather than long-term planning. Since the impacts of climate change are generally not seen in the short-term, this means that policymakers have less incentive to act upon those potential outcomes. Furthermore, these problems (both the causes and effects of climate change) are occurring on a global scale, which has caused the United Nations to lead global policy efforts such as the Kyoto Protocol and Paris Agreement, in addition to creating a body of research through the IPCC, in order to create a global framework for adapting to and combatting climate change. However, the vast majority of climate change adaptation and mitigation policies are being implemented on a more local scale due to the fact that different regions must adapt differently to climate change and because national and global policies are often more challenging to enact. \n\nJames Titus, project manager for sea level rise at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, identifies the following criteria that policy makers should use in assessing responses to global warming:\n\n\nAdaptation can either occur in anticipation of change (anticipatory adaptation), or be a response to those changes (reactive adaptation). Most adaptation being implemented at present is responding to current climate trends and variability, for example increased use of artificial snow-making in the European Alps. Some adaptation measures, however, are anticipating future climate change, such as the construction of the Confederation Bridge in Canada at a higher elevation to take into account the effect of future sea-level rise on ship clearance under the bridge.\n\nMuch adaptation takes place in relation to short-term climate variability, however this may cause maladaptation to longer-term climatic trends. For example, the expansion of irrigation in Egypt into the Western Sinai desert due to a period of higher river flows is a maladaptation when viewed in relation to the longer term projections of drying in the region). Adaptations at one scale can also create externalities at another by reducing the adaptive capacity of other actors. This is often the case when broad assessments of the costs and benefits of adaptation are examined at smaller scales and it is possible to see that whilst the adaptation may benefit some actors, it has a negative effect on others.\n\nPeople have always adapted to climatic changes and some community coping strategies already exist, for example changing sowing times or adopting new water-saving techniques. Traditional knowledge and coping strategies must be maintained and strengthened, otherwise adaptive capacity may be weakened as local knowledge of the environment is lost. Strengthening these local techniques and building upon them also makes it more likely that adaptation strategies will be adopted, as it creates more community ownership and involvement in the process. In many cases however this will not be enough to adapt to new conditions which are outside the range of those previously experienced, and new techniques will be needed. The incremental adaptations which were being implemented are now insufficient as the vulnerabilities and risks of climate change have increased, this causes a need for transformational adaptations which are much larger and costlier. Current development efforts are increasingly focusing on community-based climate change adaptation, seeking to enhance local knowledge, participation and ownership of adaptation strategies.\n\nCities, states, and provinces often have considerable responsibility in land use planning, public health, and disaster management. Some have begun to take steps to adapt to threats intensified by climate change, such as flooding, bushfires, heatwaves, and rising sea levels.\n\nProjects include: \n\nDealing with more frequent drenching rains may required increasing the capacity of stormwater systems, and separating stormwater from blackwater, so that overflows in peak periods do not contaminate rivers. One example is the SMART Tunnel in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nAccording to English Nature, gardeners can help mitigate the effects of climate change by providing habitats for the most threatened species, and/or saving water by changing gardens to use plants which require less.\n\nNew York City produced a comprehensive report for its Rebuilding and Resiliency initiative after Hurricane Sandy. Its efforts include not only making buildings less prone flooding, but taking steps to reduce the future recurrence of specific problems encountered during and after the storm: weeks-long fuel shortages even in unaffected areas due to legal and transportation problems, flooded health care facilities, insurance premium increases, damage to electricity and steam generation in addition to distribution networks, and flooding of subway and roadway tunnels.\n\nAdaptation can be defined as adjustments of a system to reduce vulnerability and to increase the resilience of a system to change, also known as adaptive capacity. Those societies that can respond to change quickly and successfully have a high adaptive capacity. High adaptive capacity does not necessarily translate into successful adaptation. For example, the adaptive capacity in Western Europe is high, and the risks of warmer winters increasing the range of livestock diseases was well documented, but many parts of Europe were still badly affected by outbreaks of the Bluetongue virus in livestock in 2007.\n\nAdaptive capacity is the ability of a system (human, natural or managed) to adjust to climate change (including climate variability and extremes) to moderate potential damages, to take advantage of opportunities, or to cope with consequences. Unmitigated climate change (i.e., future climate change without efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions) would, in the long term, be likely to exceed the capacity of natural, managed and human systems to adapt.\n\nIt has been found that enhanced adaptive capacity would reduce vulnerability to climate change. Activities that enhance adaptive capacity are essentially equivalent to activities that promote sustainable development. These activities include:\n\n\nOthers have suggested that certain forms of gender inequity should be addressed at the same time; for example women may have participation in decision-making, or be constrained by lower levels of education.\n\nResearchers at the Overseas Development Institute found that development interventions to increase adaptive capacity have tended not to result in increased agency for local people. They argue that this should play a more prominent part in future intervention planning because agency is a central factor in all other aspects of adaptive capacity. Asset holdings and the ability to convert these resources through institutional and market processes are central to agency.\n\nA significant effect of global climate change is the altering of global rainfall patterns, with certain effects on agriculture. Rainfed agriculture constitutes 80% of global agriculture. Many of the 852 million poor people in the world live in parts of Asia and Africa that depend on rainfall to cultivate food crops. Climate change will modify rainfall, evaporation, runoff, and soil moisture storage. Extended drought can cause the failure of small and marginal farms with resultant economic, political and social disruption, more so than this currently occurs.\n\nAgriculture of any kind is strongly influenced by the availability of water. Changes in total seasonal precipitation or in its pattern of variability are both important. The occurrence of moisture stress during flowering, pollination, and grain-filling is harmful to most crops and particularly so to corn, soybeans, and wheat. Increased evaporation from the soil and accelerated transpiration in the plants themselves will cause moisture stress.\n\nAdaptive ideas include:\n\nThe demand for water for irrigation is projected to rise in a warmer climate, bringing increased competition between agriculture—already the largest consumer of water resources in semi-arid regions—and urban as well as industrial users. Falling water tables and the resulting increase in the energy needed to pump water will make the practice of irrigation more expensive, particularly when with drier conditions more water will be required per acre. Other strategies will be needed to make the most efficient use of water resources. For example, the International Water Management Institute has suggested five strategies that could help Asia feed its growing population in light of climate change. These are:\n\nRussian and American scientists have in the past tried to control the weather, for example by seeding clouds with chemicals to try to produce rain when and where it is needed. A new method being developed involves replicating the urban heat island effect, where cities are slightly hotter than the countryside because they are darker and absorb more heat. This creates 28% more rain 20–40 miles from cities compared to upwind. On the timescale of several decades, new weather control techniques may become feasible which would allow control of extreme weather such as hurricanes.\n\nThe World Meteorological Organization (WMO) through its Commission for Atmospheric Sciences (CAS) opined in 2007: \"Purposeful augmentation of precipitation, reduction of hail damage, dispersion of fog and other types of cloud and storm modifications by cloud seeding are developing technologies which are still striving to achieve a sound scientific foundation and which have to be adapted to enormously varied natural conditions.\"\n\nGlacial lake outburst floods may become a bigger concern due to the retreat of glaciers, leaving behind numerous lakes that are impounded by often weak terminal moraine dams. In the past, the sudden failure of these dams has resulted in localized property damage, injury and deaths. Glacial lakes in danger of bursting can have their moraines replaced with concrete dams (which may also provide hydroelectric power).\n\nIPCC (2007) concluded that geoengineering options, such as ocean fertilization to remove CO from the atmosphere, remained largely unproven. It was judged that reliable cost estimates for geoengineering had not been published.\n\nThe Royal Society (2009) published the findings of a study into geoengineering. The authors of the study defined geoengineering as a \"deliberate large-scale intervention in the Earth's climate system, in order to moderate global warming\". According to the study, the safest and most predictable method of moderating climate change is early action to reduce GHG emissions.\n\nScientists such as Ken Caldeira and Paul Crutzen suggest techniques such as:\n\nMigration frequently requires would-be migrants to have access to social and financial capital, such as support networks in the chosen destination, and the funds or physical resources to be able to move. It is frequently the last adaptive response households will take when confronted with environmental factors that threaten their livelihoods, and mostly resorted to when other mechanisms to cope have proven unsuccessful.\n\nThe rhetoric of migration being related to climate change is complex and disputed. However, It is widely accepted that the results of migration events are multi-causal, with the environment being just a factor amongst many. Outside of policy, human rights organizations, expert demographers and environmental climate scientists dominate this debate. Many discussions are based on projections and less with current migration data. While many migration events can be attributed to sudden environmental change, most migration events are a result of long term environmental changes and do not cause sudden migration. Some scholars attribute these events to sudden environmental changes, like natural disasters. Some choose to label it \"climate change\", which reflects a more long term onset of change, and the human impact element. \n\nIt is helpful to provide an intersectional approach to this discussion and understand that focusing on climate change as the issue frames the debate in terms of projections, causing the research to be speculative. Migration as tool for climate change adaptation is projected to be a more pressing issue in the decade to come. It is often framed in terms of human rights issues and national security. Migration events are often seen as a failure of the governments or policy making bodies that could not contain or effectively manage environmental changes. For example, extreme drought events in the Caribbean proliferate movement of peoples because of the lack of water. This is often seen as a failure on the local governments to provide structural and independent resources. These adaptation failures that have been the topic of concern for many scholars researching this area. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has been viewed as one of the highest authorities to help those displaced.\n\nInsurance spreads the financial impact of flooding and other extreme weather events. Although it can be preferable to take a proactive approach to eliminate the cause of the risk, reactive post-harm compensation can be used as a last resort. Access to reinsurance may be a form of increasing the resiliency of cities. Where there are failures in the private insurance market, the public sector can subsidize premiums. A study identified key equity issues for policy considerations:\n\n\nGovernment-subsidized insurance, such as the U.S. National Flood Insurance Program, is criticized for providing a perverse incentive to develop properties in hazardous areas, thereby increasing overall risk. It is also suggested that insurance can undermine other efforts to increase adaptation, for instance through property level protection and resilience. This behavioral effect may be countered with appropriate land-use policies that limit new construction where current or future climate risks are perceived and/or encourage the adoption of resilient building codes to mitigate potential damages.\n\nThe Netherlands, along with the Philippines and Japan and United Nations Environment, launched the Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation in 2017.\n\nNumerous countries, including Australia, have held inquiries into and have planned or started adaptation measures.\n\nThe state of California has also issued a document titled \"2009 California Climate Adaptation Strategy Discussion Draft\" that summarizes the best known science on climate change impacts in seven specific sectors and provides recommendations on how to manage against those threats. Within the state of Florida four counties (Broward, Miami-Dade, Monroe, Palm Beach) have created the Southeast Florida Regional Climate Change Compact in order to coordinate adaptation and mitigation strategies to cope with the impact of climate change on the region. \nPoorer communities have gotten help with climate adaptation in places like Bangladesh as well. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has issued grants to coastal cities and towns for adaptation activities such as fortification against flooding and preventing coastal erosion.\n\nNew York State is requiring climate change be taken into account in certain infrastructure permitting, zoning, and open space programs; and is mapping sea level rise along its coast. After Hurricane Sandy, New York and New Jersey accelerated voluntary government buy-back of homes in flood-prone areas. New York City announced in 2013 it planned to spend between $10 and $20 billion on local flood protection, reduction of the heat island effect with reflective and green roofs, flood-hardening of hospitals and public housing, resiliency in food supply, and beach enhancement; rezoned to allow private property owners to move critical features to upper stories; and required electrical utilities to harden infrastructure against flooding. Study of a large storm barrier spanning the entire harbor was previously proposed by the Governor of New York, but was dismissed in the City's plans.\n\nIn 2008, the German Federal Cabinet adopted the 'German Strategy for Adaptation to Climate Change' that sets out a framework for adaptation in Germany. Priorities are to collaborate with the Federal States of Germany in assessing the risks of climate change, identifying action areas and defining appropriate goals and measures. In 2011, the Federal Cabinet adopted the 'Adaptation Action Plan' that is accompanied by other items such as research programs, adaptation assessments and systematic observations.\n\nIn 2018, the New York WILD film festival gave the \"Best Short Film\" award to a 12-minute documentary, titled \"Adaptation Bangladesh: Sea Level Rise\". The film explores the way in which Bangladeshi farmers are preventing their farms from flooding by building floating gardens made of water hyacinth and bamboo.\n\nAn ice stupa designed by Sonam Wangchuk brings glacial water to farmers in the Himalayan Desert of Ladakh, India.\n\nIn Mesoamerica today, climate change is one of the main threats to rural Central American farmers, as the region is plagued with frequent droughts, cyclones and the El Niño- Southern-Oscillation. Although there is a wide variety of adaption strategies, these can vary dramatically from country to country. Many of the adjustments that have been made are primarily agricultural or related to water supply. Some of these adaptive strategies include restoration of degraded lands, rearrangement of land uses across territories, livelihood diversification, changes to sowing dates or water harvest, and even migration. The lack of available resources in Mesoamerica continues to pose as a barrier to more substantial adaptations, so the changes made today are much more incremental.\n\nAccording to Al Gore, writing in 1992 in \"Earth in the Balance\", adaptation represented a \"kind of laziness, an arrogant faith in our ability to react in time to save our skins\". Climate commentator David Roberts has written that \"(b)oth mitigation and adaption are necessary at this point. But for every day mitigation is delayed, the need for adaptation grows,\" which is problematic because \"adaptation is more expensive and requires bigger government than mitigation.\"\n\nAccording to a report released by Greenpeace USA in September 2013, climate change denial and the campaigns designed to block adaptation measures grew mainly out of the 1990s negotiations slated to develop a global agreement. During these talks, a number of lobby groups were established with an objective of developing doubt within policymakers and the media through the use of publications in the guise of true science. This tactic, similar to those of large tobacco companies, was utilized by the lobby groups in the hopes of delaying action and blurring the lines between the valid scientific efforts to challenge climate change findings and those designed to merely undermine the credibility of the scientific community. This strategy feeds into the \"uncertainty argument\" and develops an impression of debate through references to the uncertainty of scientific findings that exist in any research model. Additional tactics that the lobbyist groups have used include releasing non-stories manufactured from stolen emails and communications plans to develop more media coverage of the uncertainty argument.\n\nA book by the Berliner Wissenschafts-Verlag on 'conflict-sensitive adaptation' sheds light on unintended damaging effects of climate adaptation measures. For example, when disadvantaged groups are left out of the planning process, adaptation methods such as agricultural or water programmes may increase vulnerabilities. The book draws on findings from Africa and outlines how conflict-sensitive adaptation activities should look that are cognizant of the conflict-effects adaptation may have. The authors provide a \"Memorandum for Action on Adaptation for Peace and Stability\" that outlines principles to support processes for adaptation and peace such as the establishment of peace and conflict assessments for adaptation programmes, mainstreaming climate change adaptation in conflict-prone contexts, applying conflict sensitive approaches or provisions to ensure participatory processes to design and implement adaptation measures.\n\nThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) produced two separate reports: Climate Change 2001: Mitigation and Climate Change 2001: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability\n\n\nSeveral countries have taken a lead in climate vulnerability assessment and adaptation planning. Their web sites contain reports, strategies, and tools which other countries can customize to their own situation.\n\nIn addition to government and United Nations reports, an extensive research literature assesses options for response to global warming. Much of this literature addresses the potential economic costs associated with different strategies.\n"}
{"id": "40355100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40355100", "title": "Corpo della Nobiltà Italiana", "text": "Corpo della Nobiltà Italiana\n\nThe Corpo della nobiltà italiana (English: Body of the Italian Nobility), sometimes indicated with the acronym CNI, is a private association established in 1957 in order to protect heraldic and nobility rights of Italian nobles after the republican constitution (in force since 1948) ended the public recognition and safeguard of nobility titles (including the condition of noble without title).\n\nItaly became a single State only in 1861, when during the Risorgimento the Parliament of the Kingdom of Sardinia – elected for the first time with representatives of all territories already conquered or otherwise annexed – adopted its first law stating: «The king Victor Emmanuel adopts for himself and his successors the title of King of Italy».\nSardinian constitution, the so-called Albertine Statute, remained in force for the whole Italy stating that “Nobility titles are maintained to those who have right to them. Thus unified Italy had several Nobility laws, one for each pre-unitarian State: that is why its College of Arms, called \"Consulta araldica\" (\"heraldic council\") was organised in several “regional” commissions, each corresponding – more or less – to a pre-unitarian State in order to apply the latter nobility law. A single nobility law started only in 1926 when the female succession, still valid up to then in the former kingdoms of Naples, Sicily and Sardinia (only the island of Sardinia), was abolished.\nTitles could be granted to the eldest male (as in Frankish tradition), to all males (as in Langobard tradition) or to all family members; in all cases, all family members are noble, the condition of “Noble” being the title which pertained to all members of families with or without other titles. Members of family where only the eldest male hold titles are indicated with «Noble of the [title of the eldest male] (plural)»: for example, if Mr Rossi is granted with the title Baron of Nothing whose succession is for the eldest male, all his issue will be Mr Antonio Rossi Noble of the Barons of Nothing and Miss Valentina Rossi Noble of the Barons of Nothing, and the same will apply to all of his descent by male line.\nOfficial lists of all Italian families and noble people were published in 1921 and 1933.\n\nFollowing the establishment of the Italian republic in June 1946, a new constitution entered in force in 1948, stating that «Nobility tiles are not recognized». As a consequence, they are “out of the world of law”: administrative powers may not use them and judges cannot appreciate their existence. Their use is not forbidden, but there is no public safeguard against misuse.\n\nIn order to overcome this lack of safeguard, some Italian aristocrats founded in 1955−1957 the Corpo della Nobiltà Italiana, with the aim of protect historical and heraldic rights of Italian nobles. We can note that the word “heraldic” is always used by the CNI \"lato sensu\", i.e. considering all functions of heralds, not only relating to heraldry but also to all nobility issues. CNI bodies called “heraldic” are related to whole nobility issues and not only heraldic ones \"stricto sensu\".\nThe first offices were: \nSome years later, the association merged with the previous Unione della Noblità Italiana (UNI, Union of Italian Nobility), founded beforehand on the example of the French \"Association d'entraide de la noblesse française\" (ANF).\n\nThe CNI aims to keep up to date the official lists of Italian Nobles, by applying rigorously the rules stated about the matter, the last ones being the \"Ordinamento dello stato nobiliare italiano\" (organisation of the Italian nobility) in 1943 (which of course has never been modified and will never be by the republican Italian institutions). \nPeople entitled to be inscribed are: \n1 – those already inscribed in the official registrars;\n2 – those who had a grant of a nobility title (including the mere title of Noble) after the publication of the lists;\n3 – legitimate and natural issue of the latters, meaning issue that is both legitimate, thus excluding children born out of a lawful wedlock, and natural, thus excluding adopted children; children whose parents married after their birth are considered as fully legitimate as for the scope;\n4 – illegitimate born children in whose act of legitimacy the succession in nobility titles is expressly provided (this could only happen during the kingdom);\n5 – those who prove their descent by a man who had not been included in the lists at that time but whose right is proven according to the applicable rules.\n\nOther aims are the mutual assistance among Nobles, deriving from UNI tasks, and social events for young noble people.\n\nOnly Nobles can be part of the CNI. Some regional associations allow also wives of Nobles, not Noble themselves by birth, according to the fact that wife follows husband's nobility condition. Due to the same rule, CNI states that noblewomen by birth cannot be elected to any office while married to a non-noble man.\n\nThe CNI is composed by 14 regional Nobility associations, reflecting the organisation of the \"Heraldic Council\" (\"consulta araldica\") in the Kingdom of Italy. Each one is autonomous and has a proper statute.\nThey are:\n\nEach association elect a “heraldic-genealogical commission” composed by 6 to 21 members for compiling the regional nobility registrar and assessing requests of inscriptions. Each commission elect within its members a chairman, a vice-chairman, a secretary, a delegate to the \"Central heraldic body\" (see below) and a vice-delegate.\n\nEach association can be governed by a council, composed by a president, a vice-president, a chancellor, a treasurer, some counsellors and the representative of the \"youth club\", but there is actually no difference between council and commission in all regional associations.\n\nThe CNI itself is governed by a National heraldic council (\"Consiglio araldico nazionale\", sometimes referred to as CAN), composed by all members of regional commissions and the president of the youth club. This body elect the offices and decide main issues both as far as organisation and nobility matters are concerned.\nThe CAN elect a chairman, six vice-chairmen, a chancellor, a treasurer and the representative in the \"CILANE\".\n\nNobility issues, and chiefly the rights to titles (including the mere title of Noble) are decided by a Central heraldic body (\"Giunta araldica centrale\", sometimes referred to as GAC), composed by the 14 delegates of the regional commissions. They elect a chairman among all members of regional commissions and one (or two) of them as vice-chairman.\n\nAll CNI members aged less than 35 years are part of the CNI Youth club (\"Corpo della nobiltà italiana - circolo giovanile\", also called referred to as CNI-CG), that organise social events at national and international level. They elect a president, a vice-president, a secretary, a treasurer and the CILANE youth delegate and appoint a delegate in each regional association among the its young members.\n\nIn case of problems between associates, the CAN elect a Court of honour (meaning it judges on matters relating to honour and reputation; in Italian, \"Corte d'onore\", always referred to as “Corte d'onore”), composed by three ordinary members and two deputies, expert in law. Ordinary members elect one of them as chairman.\n\nThe main CNI ruling body is actually the Board of directors (\"ufficio di presidenza\", sometimes referred to as UP), composed by:\n\nCNI consider themselves not to be one nobility association among the several ones existing in Italy, but as \"the\" nobility association \"par excellence\". This self-esteem depend on different facts:\nNot all observers share this view, with various arguments.\nNevertheless, the important role played by the CNI as a representative of Italian Nobles is recognized by the CILANE, that recognize the \"Corpo della nobiltà italiana\" as their only Italian member. A tight cooperation with the Order of Malta is operating, too, reaffirming the CNI authority in nobility questions. Lastly, in case of doubts titles are used as CNI officially state them by the \"Union of Italian clubs\", most of which still use nobility titles for social purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46352200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46352200", "title": "Crime in Bolivia", "text": "Crime in Bolivia\n\nCrime in Bolivia is investigated by the Bolivian police.\n\nIn 2012, Bolivia had a murder rate of 12.1 per 100,000 population. There were a total of 1,270 murders in Bolivia in 2012.\n\nThe Bolivian government has since 2004 implemented a policy of voluntary participation of farmers from all coca-growing regions in Bolivia. For instance, farmers in Chapare are allowed to grow one cato of coca per year. Any coca grown beyond that limit, or any cultivation outside of approved coca-cultivation regions such as Chapare, is subject to elimination. The strategy relies on coca growers federations’ ability to enforce the agreement. Such federations are influential, and penalties for violations by farmers or lax enforcement by federations can be stern (including seizure of lands). As a result, coca cultivation in Bolivia fell to 27,200 hectares in 2011 from 31,000 hectares in 2010 - a 12 per cent decrease.\n\nDomestic violence is a serious and underreported problem. According to the Center for the Women’s Information and Development (CIDEM) and Emancipation Fund study, the number of reported domestic violence cases increased by 37% between 2007 and 2011. A study by the Pan American Health Organization conducted in 12 Latin American countries found the highest prevalence of domestic violence against women to be in Bolivia.\n"}
{"id": "705876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=705876", "title": "Crime in Canada", "text": "Crime in Canada\n\nUnder the Canadian constitution, the power to establish criminal law and rules of investigation is vested in the federal Parliament. The provinces share responsibility for law enforcement (although provincial policing in many jurisdictions is contracted to the federal Royal Canadian Mounted Police), and while the power to prosecute criminal offences is assigned to the federal government, responsibility for prosecutions is delegated to the provinces for most types of criminal offences. Laws and sentencing guidelines are uniform throughout the country, but provinces vary in their level of enforcement.\n\nCanada's growing multi-ethnic society in the 1980s introduced new organized crime groups that competed with the Mafia, marking a growth in crimes such as drug trafficking, gambling, loansharking, migrant smuggling, cigarette smuggling, liquor smuggling and prostitution. The Rizzuto-Caruana-Cuntrera Italian Mafia families lost ground in cocaine and heroin smuggling to Iranian and Chinese gangs, Colombian cartels and outlaw biker gangs starting in the mid-1970s. Chinese gangs smuggled heroin through airports in the 1970s and shifted toward cargo containers entering Vancouver around 1985. By 2001, the RCMP estimated up to 15 metric tons of cocaine reaching Canada annually. \n\nIllegal immigrants from Asia to the US frequently enter through Canada and lower criminal penalties tended to favor drug smuggling. In particular, Canada did not criminalize the possession of precursor chemicals for drugs like methamphetamine. After the 1970s, synthetic drugs overtook liquor as the main item smuggled into the US and by the 1990s Canada supplied large amounts of high-grade marijuana, ecstasy and methamphetamine. Quebec mobsters, relocated to Florida, maintained two large pill making operations in Quebec from 1981 to 1986, shipping 13.5 million methaqualone tablets to the US. By the early 2000s, Canada was a net exporter of marijuana to US, although comprised only one-fifth the amount coming from Mexico. A pound valued at $2000 in Vancouver would sell for as much as $6000 in California. \n\nGerald Matticks, a major leader in the Irish West End Gang in Quebec was suspected by police as the smuggler behind two large hashish shipments captured in 2000, but an investigation of the Quebec Hells Angels uncovered his name in documents. Spreadsheets indicated that the Hells Angels owed $7 million to Matticks for cocaine and hashish, leading to his arrest and conviction. \n\nLegalized gambling shrank the illegal gambling market in Canada after the 1970s. However, a 1996 report found that illegal gambling in Ontario was a $10 billion industry and in 1999 the Illegal Gaming Enforcement Unit was created by the province, bringing 941 gambling charges against 623 people. Video lottery machines are often used illegally by the Italian mafia, Chinese and Russian gangs, as well as the Hells Angels. As many as 25,000 machines were believed to be distributed in Southern Ontario in 1996.\n\nTobacco smuggling grew rapidly after the Canadian government increased the excise tax on cigarettes 140 percent. By 1993, there were as many as 100 million contraband cartons circulating in the country. However, the government did not impose penalties on cigarettes for export and many exported cigarettes were brought back into the country. A joint sting operation netted Larry Miller, who had earned $687 million between 1992 and 1996, enough to afford a Learjet to go between Las Vegas and Massena, New York, where cigarettes were smuggled through the Akwasasne reservation—which because of its cross-border nature, lacked border security. The Mohawk Warrior Society, famous for the 1990 Oka standoff had launched into tobacco and migrant smuggling beginning around 1988. Due to smuggling, the government lowered cigarette taxes in 1994. However, high liquor duties—at 80 percent of the price, rather than 40 in the US—led to significant liquor smuggling. \n\nSmuggling demands drove corruption among baggage handlers at Toronto Pearson airport, prompting an audit of 131,000 airport workers after 4500 were found to have ties to bikers gangs and organized crime, in 2004. \n\nAfter 1983, migrant smuggling increased rapidly. Cheng Chui Ping, a Chinese grandmother from Fujian province orchestrated a major \"Snakehead\" smuggler gang, transporting thousands of people in the 1990s. Between 1994 and 2003, 15,000 Chinese people entered Canada illegally. In March, 2000 the RCMP infiltrated a large prostitution ring that had smuggled in 280 Korean women to work as forced laborers in massage parlors. The federal government in 1998 opted to exempt exotic dancers from restrictions on working in Canada, helping to drive prostitution. \n\nThe province with the lowest crime rate in 2006 for the third straight year was Ontario with 5,689 per 100,000, followed by Quebec with 5,909 per 100,000. The province with the highest crime rate for the 9th straight year was Saskatchewan with 13,711 per 100,000. Regina is the city with the highest crime rate followed by its provincial counterpart Saskatoon. Quebec City, Trois-Rivières, and Saguenay have the lowest crime rates of any city and are all located in Quebec.\n\nIn contrast, first nations peoples in Canada represent a disproportionate number of victims of the criminal justice system, in some provinces representing up to 85% of the incarcerated inmates. Recent Canadian legislation instigating mandatory minimums could result in increasing those statistics (and federal and provincial penal and punishment budgets), radically. Similar legislation in the United States quadrupled the inmate population over a 20-year span. Australia`s prison budget grew so rapidly it repealed its mandatory minimums legislation within ten years. \n\nThe three northern territories have higher per capita crime rates than any province. As evidenced by the crime map above right, Saskatchewan has a higher crime rate than the other Canadian provinces, but lower than the territories.\n\nThe number of murders dropped to 594 in 2007, 12 fewer than the previous year. One-third of the 2007 murders were stabbings and another third were by firearm. In 2007, there were 190 stabbings and 188 shootings. Handguns were used in two-thirds of all firearm murders. Seventy-four youths were accused of murder, down 11 from the previous year. About eighty-four percent of murders were done by someone known to the victim. Male victims of homicide were most likely to be killed by an acquaintance, someone known to them through a criminal relationship, or a stranger. Female victims of homicide were most frequently killed by a current or former intimate partner, or another family member. The province with the highest crime rate was Manitoba while the lowest crime rates occurred in Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nPolice reported criminal violence is thought to be an undercount of actual violence rates. Thus, approximately every five years, Statistics Canada conducts a survey of victimization in Canada. The last General Social Survey conducted was in 2004, where 24,000 people were contacted by telephone: 106 reported incidents of violence per 1,000 polled, which is slightly lower than in 1999 when it was 111 per 1,000 polled.\n\nWinnipeg has been the \"Murder Capital\" of Canada 20 times since homicide rates have been available in 1981, far exceeding any other provincial city.\nCrime statistics vary considerably through different parts of Canada. In general, the eastern provinces have the lowest violent crime rates while the western provinces have higher rates and the territories higher still. Of the provinces, Manitoba and Saskatchewan have the highest violent crime rates. The chart below also shows that Saskatchewan has the highest provincial assault rate, and that Manitoba has the highest provincial sexual assault rate, robbery rate and homicide rate of any Canadian province. In many instances the crime rates in the Yukon, North West Territories and Nunavut are the highest in the country and can be up to ten times the national average.\n\n2016 crime statistics for the provinces and territories are given below, as reported by Statistics Canada.\nIn 2005, there were 61,050 police officers in Canada which equates to one police officer per 528.6 persons, but with significant regional variations. Newfoundland and Labrador and Prince Edward Island have the fewest police per capita with 664.9 and 648.4 persons per police officer, respectively. Conversely, the highest ratio of police to population is found in Canada's northern territories; Nunavut has 247.9 persons per police officer, the Northwest Territories has 248.5 persons per officer and the Yukon has 258.2 persons for each police officer.\n\nThat is a substantially lower rate than most developed countries with only Japan and Sweden having so few police officers. The United States has one officer per 411.5 persons, and Germany 344.8.\n\nCanada's national police force is the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) which is the main police force in Canada's north, and in rural areas except in Quebec, Ontario, and Newfoundland. Those three provinces have their own provincial police forces, although the RCMP still operate throughout rural Newfoundland and also provide specific federal policing services in Ontario and Quebec. Many cities and districts have their own municipal police forces, while others have contracts with the provincial police or RCMP to police their communities.\n\nA publication posted on Statistics Canada reported that in 2009, only a small portion of crimes that happen are reported to the police (31% of all crimes), and this figure has been lowering from 1999 (37%) and 2004 (34%). Only 54% of break and enters, 43% of robberies, and 34% of assaults are reported to the police. The most common reason for not reporting a crime was the victim thought it was not important enough (68%). Other common reasons include; they think the police cannot do anything about it (59%), or they dealt with it another way (42%). Multiple reasons are given so the percentages do not sum to 100%.\n\nCanada abolished the death penalty for murder in 1976, instituting a mandatory sentence of life imprisonment for murder. \n\nIn 2001, Canada had about 32,000 people in prison or about 0.13% of the total population. Globally, the United States was the country with the highest percentage of inmate population (about 0.7% of the total population). The European average is 0.2% of the total population, with France and Germany having lower rates than Canada, but with the United Kingdom, Spain and most of Eastern Europe having higher ones.\n\nComparing crime rates between countries is difficult due to the differences in jurisprudence, reporting and crime classifications. National crime statistics are in reality statistics of only selected crime types. Data are collected through various surveying methods that have previously ranged between 15% and 100% coverage of the data. A 2001 Statistics Canada study concluded that comparisons with the U.S. on homicide rates were the most reliable. Comparison of rates for six lesser incident crimes was considered possible but subject to more difficulty of interpretation. For example, types of assaults receive different classifications and laws in Canada and the U.S., making comparisons more difficult than homicides. At the time, the U.S. crime of aggravated assault could be compared to the sum of three Canadian crimes (aggravated assault, assault with a weapon, and attempted murder). This comparison had a predicted bias that would inflate the Canadian numbers by only 0.1%. The study also concluded that directly comparing the two countries' reported total crime rate (i.e. total selected crimes) was \"inappropriate\" since the totals include the problem data sets as well as the usable sets. For reasons like these, homicides have been favored in international studies looking for predictors of crime rates (predictors like economic inequality).\n\nMuch study has been done of the comparative experience and policies of Canada with its southern neighbour the United States, and this is a topic of intense discussion within Canada.\n\nHistorically, the violent crime rate in Canada is far lower than that of the U.S. and this continues to be the case. For example, in 2000 the United States' rate for robberies was 65 percent higher, its rate for aggravated assault was more than double, and its murder rate was triple that of Canada. However, the rate of some property crime types is lower in the U.S. than in Canada. For example, in 2006, the rates of vehicle theft were 22% higher in Canada than in the U.S.\n\nFurthermore, in recent years, the gap in violent crime rates between the United States and Canada has narrowed due to a precipitous drop in the violent crime rate in the U.S. For example, while the aggravated assault rate declined for most of the 1990s in the U.S. and was 324 per 100,000 in 2000, the aggravated assault rate in Canada remained relatively steady throughout and was 143 per 100,000 in 2000. In other areas, the U.S. had a faster decline. For instance, whereas the murder rate in Canada declined by 36% between 1991 and 2004, the U.S. murder rate declined by 44%.\nThe homicide rate in Canada peaked in 1975 at 3.03 per 100,000 and has dropped since then; it reached lower peaks in 1985 (2.72) and 1991 (2.69). It reached a post-1970 low of 1.73 in 2003. The average murder rate between 1970 and 1976 was 2.52, between 1977 and 1983 it was 2.67, between 1984 and 1990 it was 2.41, between 1991 and 1997 it was 2.23 and between 1998 and 2004 it was 1.82. The attempted homicide rate has fallen at a faster rate than the homicide rate.\n\nBy comparison, the homicide rate in the U.S. reached 10.1 per 100,000 in 1974, peaked in 1980 at 10.7 and reached a lower peak in 1991 (10.5). The average murder rate between 1970 and 1976 was 9.4, between 1977 and 1983 it was 9.6, between 1984 and 1990 it was 9, between 1991 and 1997 it was 9.2 and between 1998 and 2004 it was 6.3. In 2004, the murder rate in the U.S. dipped below 6 per 100,000, for the first time since 1966, and as of 2010 stood at 4.8 per 100,000 \n\nIn more recent years, the U.S. as a country still typically has higher violent crimes rates. In 2012, the homicide rate in the U.S. was 4.7 per 100,000 residents, Canada's was 3 times lower at 1.6. However the chances of being murdered at random are extremely low in both countries. In Canada, only 15% of murders are committed by strangers, in the U.S. this number is very similar at 14%, meaning in 50 years your chance of being murdered at random is 0.000128% in Canada, in the U.S. it is 0.000329% (of course these numbers would vary by neighborhoods within each country). Certain methods of homicide are used more frequently in each country; in Canada (0.59), stabbing homicides occur 51.3% more often than in the U.S. (0.39), however firearm homicides occur 440% more in the U.S. (2.7) than in Canada (0.5). In the U.S., you are 3 times more likely to die being shot (17.4%) than being stabbed (5.3%).\n\nBeyond homicides, the U.S. (112.9) has a higher robbery rate - 42.2% higher than Canada (79.4). Other violent crimes such as physical assaults or sexual assaults are not very comparable between the countries because of different definitions of the crimes. The disparity in property crime is not as large, however it still exists. The burglary/break-in rate in the U.S. (670.2) is 33.1% higher than in Canada (503.7), the theft rate in the U.S. (1959.3) is 33.4% higher than in Canada (1468.4), and the auto-theft rate in the U.S. (229.7) is slightly higher than the rate in Canada (223.5).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24081304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24081304", "title": "Demographics of Berlin", "text": "Demographics of Berlin\n\nIn December 2015, the city-state of Berlin had a population of 3,520,031 registered inhabitants in an area of . The city's population density was 3,944 inhabitants per km². Berlin is Germany's largest city and the second most populous city proper in the European Union.\n\nIn December 2015, 621,075 registered residents were of foreign nationality, originating from approximately 190 different countries.\n\nThe city responded to the 1685 revocation of the Edict of Nantes in France with the Edict of Potsdam, which guaranteed religious freedom and tax-free status to French Huguenot refugees for ten years. Thanks to its role as the capital of rising Prussia, the population grew steadily: it surpassed the 100,000 mark in 1747 and the one-million mark in 1877.\n\nGrowth accelerated in the 19th century with the industrialisation after the Napoleonic Wars and the Prussian Reforms. Only about 40% of Berliners in the last quarter of the 19th century were natives of the city. Nevertheless, Berlin's population remained ethnically and even regionally very homogeneous: In 1895, over 98% of inhabitants spoke German as their native language. Among the rest were 12,000 Polish speakers, 700 Russophones and about 2,000 other Slavs. In 1900, most of the 1.9 million Berliners originated from the eastern provinces of Prussia. A fifth hailed from the surrounding province of Brandenburg, 9% from the provinces of West and East Prussia, 7% from Silesia, 6% from Pomerania, 5% from Posen, 4% from Saxony. Only about 3 to 4% had come to the city from other German regions and only about 1,5% from abroad, mostly from Austria-Hungary and the Russian Empire. \n\nBetween 1913 and 1917, the population fell by about 16% down to 1.744 million people, mostly due to men serving in World War I, but recovered somewhat after the armistice, reaching 1.928 million people in December 1919. In December 1917, during the latter part of the war, there were 58,152 military personnel and 4,017 prisoners-of-war in the city.\n\nThe industrialisation had brought about a rapid expansion of the suburbs, many of them developed explicitly for workers of specific factories, e.g. Siemensstadt and Borsigwalde. The Greater Berlin Act of 1920 (\"Groß-Berlin-Gesetz\") boosted the population by incorporating many hitherto autonomous towns and cities, e.g. Spandau and Köpenick at the margins of the modern metropolis, but also Charlottenburg, nowadays almost in the heart of the city. The city approximately reached its modern extent, growing from to . This expansion made Berlin the most populous city proper of Continental Europe in the interwar period (though not the largest agglomeration) and the third-largest in the world behind London and New York. \n\nThe four-million mark was surpassed in the 1920s, and in 1942, the officially registered population reached its maximum of 4.48 million, although because of the war conditions, this was an overestimation. More likely estimates based on food rationing data show lower numbers of 3.95 million people in February 1942 and only 3.11 million people in February 1944 (incl. 177,000 foreigners) when aerial attacks approached its most intense phase.\n\nIn the context of the more general huge population movements in immediately post-war Germany, a significant part of Berlin's pre-war population permanently resettled to other parts of Germany or abroad. A 1946 census counted 436,600 Berliners in the western occupation zones and 306,823 in the Soviet zone. In 1950, this number had risen to 518,218 in what had now become the Federal Republic. Since the end of World War II, the city population has been fluctuating between 3 and 3.5 million, with a low of less than 3.1 million from the mid-1970s to mid-1980s. Between 1950 and 1961, so between the establishment of the Soviet-backed German Democratic Republic and the construction of the Berlin Wall, most of the losses were incurred by East Berlin, while West Berlin showed modest growth of 2.3%.\n\nMoving to West Berlin was attractive for those from West Germany who wished to avoid the draft from 1957 to 1990, because the special administrative status of the city meant that the draft could not be enforced there.\n\nAsylum policies in West Berlin triggered waves of immigration during the 1960s and 1970s. Berlin is home to about 250,000 Turks (especially in Kreuzberg, Neukölln and Wedding, a locality in the borough of Mitte), the largest Turkish community outside Turkey.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the \"Aussiedlergesetze\" enabled immigration to Germany of residents of the former Soviet Union. Ethnic Germans from countries from the former Soviet Union make up the largest portion of the Russian-speaking community. Immigration continues from a number of Western countries, particularly by young people from Germany and other parts of Europe.\n\nOn 31 December 2015 the city-state of Berlin had a population of 3,520,031 registered inhabitants in an area of . Berlin in 2009 was estimated to have another 100,000 to 250,000 non-registered inhabitants. The city's population density was 4,048 inhabitants per km. Berlin is the second most populous city proper in the EU.\n\nThe urban area of Berlin comprised about 4.1 million people in 2014 in an area of , making it the seventh most populous urban area in the European Union. The urban agglomeration of the metropolis was home to about 4.5 million in an area of .\n\n the functional urban area was home to about 5 million people in an area of approximately . The entire Berlin-Brandenburg capital region has a population of more than 6 million in an area of .\n\nIn 2014, the city state Berlin had 37,368 live births (+6.6%), a record number since 1991. The number of deaths was 32,314. Almost 2 million households were counted in the city. 54 percent of them were single-person households. More than 337,000 families with children under the age of 18 lived in Berlin. In 2014 the German capital registered a migration surplus of approximately 40,000 people.\n\nAs of December 2013 there were approximately 1,000,000 people (about 30 percent of the population) with an immigrant background living in Berlin, with significant differences in their distribution. The immigrant community is diverse, with Middle Easterners (including Turks and Arabs), smaller numbers of East Asians, Sub-Saharan Africans and other European immigrants, Eastern Europeans forming the largest groups. Since the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the European Union there has been a Romani influx. About 70,000 Afro-Germans live in Berlin.\n\nThere are more than 25 non-indigenous communities with a population of at least 10,000 people, including Turkish, Polish, Russian, Croatian, Palestinian, Serbian, Italian, Bosnian, Vietnamese, American, Romanian, Bulgarian, Chinese, Austrian, Ghanaian, Ukrainian, French, British, Spanish, Israeli, Thai, Iranian, Egyptian and Syrian communities.\n\nIn 2015, the total labour force in Berlin was 1.85 million. The unemployment rate reached a 24-year low in November 2015 and stood at 10.0% . From 2012–2015 Berlin, as a German state, had the highest annual employment growth rate. Around 130,000 jobs were added in this period.\n\nGerman is the official and predominant spoken language in Berlin. It is a West Germanic language that derives most of its vocabulary from the Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family. German is one of 24 languages of the European Union, and one of the three working languages of the European Commission.\n\nBerlinerisch or Berlinisch is a variety with influence of Lausitzisch-neumärkisch. It is spoken in Berlin and the surrounding metropolitan area. It originates from a Mark Brandenburgish variant. The dialect is now seen more as a sociolect, largely through increased immigration and trends among the educated population to speak standard German in everyday life.\n\nThe most commonly spoken foreign languages in Berlin are English, Turkish, Russian, Arabic, Polish, Kurdish, Vietnamese, Serbian, Croatian, Greek, and other Asian languages.\n\nTurkish, Arabic, Kurdish, Serbian and Croatian are heard more often in the western part, due to the large Middle Eastern and former-Yugoslavian communities; Vietnamese, Russian and Polish have more native speakers in eastern Berlin. English, Vietnamese, Russian, and Polish have more native speakers in eastern Berlin.\n\nMore than 60% of Berlin residents have no registered religious affiliation. The largest denomination in 2010 was the Protestant regional church body – the Evangelical Church of Berlin-Brandenburg-Silesian Upper Lusatia (EKBO) – a United church. EKBO is a member of the Evangelical Church in Germany (EKD) and Union Evangelischer Kirchen (UEK), and accounts for 18.7% of the local population. The Roman Catholic Church has 9.1% of residents registered as its members. About 2.7% of the population identify with other Christian denominations (mostly Eastern Orthodox, but also various Protestants).\n\nAn estimated 200,000–350,000 Muslims reside in Berlin, making up about 6–10 percent of the population. 0.9% of Berliners belong to other religions. Of the estimated population of 30,000–45,000 Jewish residents, approximately 12,000 are registered members of religious organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14024523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14024523", "title": "Engagement party", "text": "Engagement party\n\nAn engagement party is a party held to celebrate a couple's recent engagement and to help future wedding guests to get to know one another. Traditionally, the bride's parents host the engagement party, but many modern couples host their own celebration.\n\nOriginally, engagement parties had the appearance of normal parties at which the father of the bride-to-be made a surprise announcement of the engagement to his guests. The engagement party had the purpose of sharing the engagement news with family members and friends. Therefore, it was not a traditional gift-giving occasion, as none of the guests were supposed to be aware of the engagement until after their arrival.\n\nIn ancient Greece, an engagement party was a commercial transaction. It was essentially an oral contract, made between the man who gave the woman in marriage (usually her father) and the groom. The bride was not present.\n\nA Jewish engagement party is known as a \"vort\" (). Breaking a ceramic plate at a \"vort\" is customary, symbolizing the permanence of marriage and mirroring the breaking of a glass at a Jewish wedding.\n\nIn the Scottish Gaelic tradition, a rèiteach was a betrothal ritual which typically ended in a dance party for the whole community.\n\nIn modern times, an engagement party may celebrate a previously publicized engagement. It is a party like any other, except that usually toasts or speeches are made to announce the upcoming wedding.\n\nWhile it varies, an engagement party takes place at the beginning of the process of planning a wedding. It is often thrown at the couple's home or at the home of a close friend or relative of the couple. Gifts are never obligatory, and if one is brought, it should be small and less expensive than a typical wedding gift.\n\nIn the United States, engagement parties are currently a more common practice in the Northeast, particularly in the New York area, though they are becoming more common in the Southeast as well. In most other parts of the country relatively few couples have them. Unlike publishing the banns of marriage, an engagement party has never been required.\n\nIn Africa, what is now known as an \"engagement party\" may in fact be the last remnant of the traditional, pre-colonial marriage ceremony itself. Such is the case with the Yoruba people and their bride-price rites and the Nguni people and their lobola practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "7948832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7948832", "title": "Fête champêtre", "text": "Fête champêtre\n\nA Fête champêtre was a popular form of entertainment in the 18th century, taking the form of a garden party. This form of entertainment was particularly popular at the French court where at Versailles areas of the park were landscaped with follies, pavilions and temples to accommodate such festivities.\n\nWhile the term is derived from the French expression for a \"pastoral festival\" or \"country feast\" and in theory was a simple form of entertainment, in practice (especially in the 18th century), a fête champêtre was often a very elegant form of entertainment involving on occasions whole orchestras hidden in trees, with guests sometimes in fancy dress. Thus the simplicity of the event was often contrived. A fête champêtre is very similar to a Fête galante although this term is generally more confined to the idealistic fête champêtre as depicted in art.\n\nA famous painting, the \"Pastoral Concert\" (as the Louvre now call it) dated to ca. 1509 and variously attributed to Giorgione, Titian, and Sebastiano del Piombo, was named \"Fête champêtre\" when it first became part of the Louvre collection. The title is somewhat misleading, as the painting most likely represents some mythological subject, whose precise identification has posed difficulties for art historians.\n\n"}
{"id": "488745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488745", "title": "Gook", "text": "Gook\n\nGook ( or ) is a derogatory term for certain people of East and Southeast Asian descent. The slur is frequently directed toward foreigners, especially people of Filipino, Korean, or Vietnamese descent. It was originally predominantly used by the U.S. military during wartime, especially during the Korean War, and more so during the Vietnam War.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" states that the origin of the current usage is unknown. There are three suggested possible origins:\n\nMencken reported the earliest use of the word \"gook\": he wrote that U.S. Marines occupying Nicaragua in 1912 took to calling the natives \"gooks\" and that it had previously been a term for Filipinos. He further mentions that the natives of Costa Rica are sometimes called \"goo-goos\". The first written use was in 1920 and mentions that the Marines occupying Haiti used the term to refer to Haitians. U.S. occupation troops in South Korea after World War II called the Koreans \"gooks\". After the return of U.S. troops to the Korean Peninsula, so prevalent was the use of the word gook during the first months of the Korean War that U.S. General Douglas MacArthur banned its use, for fear that Asians would become alienated to the United Nations Command because of the insult. The term was even used in British Army dispatches during the Korean War; the posthumous Victoria Cross citation for Major Kenneth Muir, for the Battle of Hill 282, stated that his last words were: \"The Gooks will never drive the Argylls off this hill\". Although mainly used to describe non-European foreigners, especially East and Southeast Asians, it has been used to describe foreigners in general, including Italians in 1944, Indians, Lebanese and Turks in the '70s, and Arabs in 1988. This dual usage is similar to the offensive word wog in British English.\n\nIn modern U.S. usage, \"gook\" refers particularly to communist soldiers during the Vietnam War and has also been used towards all Vietnamese and at other times to all East Asians in general. It is considered to be highly offensive. In a highly publicized incident, Senator John McCain used the word during the 2000 presidential campaign to refer to his former captors: \"I hate the gooks. I will hate them as long as I live… I was referring to my prison guards and I will continue to refer to them in language that might offend.\" He later apologized to the Vietnamese community at large.\n\nThe term has been used by non-U.S. militaries, notably the Rhodesian forces during the Rhodesian Bush War, where it was used interchangeably with \"terr\" and \"terrorist\" to describe the guerrillas, and by Australian forces during the Vietnam War.\n\nThe 1960 single \"Yogi\" by The Ivy Three contains \"gook\" in the lyrics to describe an Indian Yogi. The harmless usage of the term in the lyrics indicates that it had become a playful word used to describe certain Asian ethnic groups before its usage Vietnam War redefined the term as an offensive racial epithet.\n"}
{"id": "5358044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5358044", "title": "Human beings in Buddhism", "text": "Human beings in Buddhism\n\nHumans in Buddhism (Sanskrit , Pali ) are the subjects of an extensive commentarial literature that examines the nature and qualities of a human life from the point of view of humans' ability to achieve enlightenment. In Buddhism, humans are just one type of sentient being, that is a being with a mindstream. In Sanskrit Manushya means an Animal with a mind. In Sanskrit the word Manusmriti associated with Manushya was used to describe knowledge through memory. The word Muun or Maan means mind. Mind is collection of past experience with an ability of memory or smriti. Mind is considered as a animal with a disease that departs a soul from its universal enlightened infinitesimal behavior to the finite miserable fearful behavior that fluctuates between the state of heaven and hell before it is extinguished back to its infinitesimal behavior. \n\nIn Buddhism, humans have a very special status: only a human can attain enlightenment as a fully enlightened Buddha. Enlightenment as an arhat can be attained from the realms of the Śuddhāvāsa deities. A bodhisattva can appear in many different types of lives, for instance as an animal or as a deva. Buddhas, however, are always human.\n\nThe status of life as a human, at first is seen as very important. In the hierarchy of Buddhist cosmology it is low but not entirely at the bottom. It is not intrinsically marked by extremes of happiness or suffering, but all the states of consciousness in the universe, from hellish suffering to divine joy to serene tranquility can be experienced within the human world.\n\nHumans can be seen as highly favored, in that they have an immediate reason to seek out the Dharma and yet also have the means to listen to it and follow it. Among the lower realms, Pretas (aka hungry ghosts), and dwellers in the Narakas (Buddhist hell(s)) are gripped by pain and fear, and can only endure their lot but cannot better themselves. Animals are intellectually unable to understand the Dharma in full. The way of life of the Asuras is dominated by violence and antithetical to the teachings of the Dharma. Most of the Brahmas and Devas simply enjoy reaping the fruits of their past actions and think that they are immortal and forever to be happy and so they don't try to practice the Dharma. When their past karmas have all had their result, these devas will fall into lower worlds and suffer again. The lowest sorts of devas deal with strife, love, and loss just as humans do, but even so they lack the spur of imminent mortality that can lead humans to seek, not merely a better future life, but an escape from altogether. However, there are stories of beings in these realms deciding to practice and reaching enlightenment.\n\nFor this reason, life in the world of humans is known as \"the precious human rebirth\". Born close to the pivot point of happiness and suffering, humans have a unique capacity for moral choices with long-term significance.\n\nThe human rebirth is said to be extremely rare. The Majjhima Nikaya (129 Balapandita Sutta) compares it to a wooden cattle-yoke floating on the waves of the sea, tossed this way and that by the winds and currents. The likelihood of a blind turtle, rising from the depths of the ocean to the surface once in a hundred years, putting its head through the hole in the yoke is considered greater than that of a being in the animal realm, hungry ghost realm or hell realm achieving rebirth as a human. This is because, according to the sutta, in these realms there is no Dhamma (Sanskrit Dharma), no practicing what is right, no doing what is wholesome, and no performing of merit. However it is generally implied that if one is already living as a human they will continue to be reborn in the human world based on good works and so they will be one again and again as long as they are moral and good in the ways described in Buddhist rules regardless of whether or not they are Buddhist themselves. The idea is that one must be good and moral because falling below the human realm is dangerous as the odds of one becoming a human again with any great frequency is slim.\n\nAmong humans there are also better and worse conditions for attaining enlightenment. Besides being born as a human, the favorable conditions for obtaining enlightenment are:\n\nJust as it is difficult to obtain birth as a human, it is also difficult to be born at the time when a Buddha's teaching is still available. Out of the infinite \"kalpas\" (incredibly long periods) in time, most have no Buddhas appearing in them at all. The present kalpa is called \"Fortunate\" because it is said that 1,000 Buddhas will appear in it, something that is very unusual.\n\nFor this reason, Buddhist teachers say that one's present condition as a human should be valued very highly, and not allowed to slide by, as the combination of existence as a human and the presence of a Buddha's teaching may not come again for a very long time. Any human, in this view, who finds himself or herself in a position to learn the Dharma, would be remiss if he or she did not take advantage of it. This view also stands in contrast to those who would claim that, if one is to be reborn multiple times, there is no need to worry about one's actions in this life as they can always be amended in the future; rather, there is no assurance that in a long series of lives one will ever obtain the right circumstances for enlightenment, so it is important to seize the day.\n\nWith regard to a fortunate human life, Pabongkhapa Déchen Nyingpo said: \"Instead of feeling so much regret when we lose our money, we should develop regret when we waste our human life.\" \n\nAccording to the Aggañña Sutta (DN.27), humans originated at the beginning of the current kalpa as deva-like beings reborn from the Ābhāsvara deva-realm. They were then beings shining in their own light, capable of moving through the air without mechanical aid, living for a very long time, and not requiring sustenance.\n\nOver time, they acquired a taste for physical nutriment, and as they consumed it, their bodies became heavier and more like human bodies; they lost their ability to shine, and began to acquire differences in their appearance. Their length of life decreased, they differentiated into two sexes and became sexually active. Following this, greed, theft and violence arose among them, and they consequently established social distinctions and government and elected a king to rule them, called Mahāsammata, \"the great appointed one\". Some of the kings of India in the Buddha´s day claimed descent from him.\n\nIn the visionary picture of the human realm presented in Buddhist cosmology, humans live on four continents which are, relatively speaking, small islands in a vast ocean that surrounds the axial world-mountain of Sumeru, and fills most of the Earth's surface. The ocean is in turn surrounded by a circular mountain wall called (Sanskrit) or (Pāli) which marks the horizontal limit of the earth. Because of the immenseness of the ocean, the continents cannot be reached from each other by ordinary sailing vessels, although in the past, when the cakravartin kings ruled, communication between the continents was possible by means of the treasure called the cakraratna (Pāli cakkaratana), which a cakravartin and his retinue could use to fly through the air between the continents.\n\nThe four continents are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38428424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38428424", "title": "Indians in Bahrain", "text": "Indians in Bahrain\n\nThe history of Indians in Bahrain dates back to the time of the Dilmun civilisation in 3000 BCE when the civilisation served as a trade link between Mesopotamia and the Indus Valley civilisation. Proper immigration of Indians to Bahrain first started in the late quarter of the 19th century, with Banyan merchants arriving from the British Raj. Today, Indians number at an estimated 400,000 people out of the country's total population of 1.3 million, making them the largest expatriate group in the country.\n\nInitially, Indian merchants in Bahrain traded dates, though most later entered the pearling business and helped to export pearls to the world market. These merchant families originated from the Sindh province and the Kathiawad region of Gujarat. By 1925, it was estimated that there were 2,500 Indian families settled in the country, most of whom were involved in the retail sector. With the discovery and refinement of oil in Bahrain in 1932–1945, there was a demand for manpower in the oil sector, which led to greater number of Indian workers to immigrate to the country. Following the Second World War and the subsequent expansion of Bahrain's economy as a result of the oil boom, greater number of Indians emigrated to the country to set up their own businesses and to fill in manpower demands as workers, managers and salesmen. By the 1950s, the Bahrain Petroleum Company, which was the country's sole oil company, had employed more than 600 Indians. A rough estimate suggested that the number of migrant workers, from the state of Kerala, in Bahrain increased from 1,000 in 1958 to almost 5,000 in 1981.\n\nIndians in the country have predominantly blue-collar jobs; 70% of the Indian community work in the construction sector of the country, with others working as barbers and carpenters. Around 15,000 more Indians work as domestic workers; these are almost exclusively women. Most Indian women in the country work as teachers in the country's private schools. Despite the vast number of Indians working as blue-collar workers, white-collar Indian workers are present in the country, often working as pharmacists, physicians and accountants. In recent years, a large number of Indians have committed suicide, leading to a public outcry in Bahrain and India, with community leaders asking for greater reach of counselling and support services.\n\nThe Indian embassy in the country was first opened in January 1973. Prior to that, India's Ambassador to Kuwait was concurrently accredited to Bahrain.\n\nThere are 32 registered Indian cultural organisations, with a further 68 unregistered socio-cultural organisations and clubs. There are multiple non-Muslim religious places of worship present in the country including a 60-year-old Hindu temple, five churches and six Gurudwaras. The country's oldest and largest Indian social club is the Indian Club with over 4,000 members. The club was first established in 1915 as the \"Bahrain Sports Club\" to serve the country's native and non-native inhabitants. The Bahrain Keraleeya Samajam was established in 1947. Many of the Indian associations are under the umbrella group of the Co-ordination Committee of Indian Associations (CCIA), which coordinates events for the Indian community such as the Indian Republic Day. The CCIA also helped to provide relief for Indian workers in tragedies such as the Bahrain boat disaster, which killed 17 Indians.\n\nThere are multiple schools that were established in the country in the 20th century that offer the CBSE curriculum, the oldest of which is The Indian School which was first established in 1950. The list of CBSE curriculum schools in Bahrain are:-\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54523829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54523829", "title": "Jahai people", "text": "Jahai people\n\nThe Jahai or Jehai people are an indigenous Orang Asli of the Semang people group found in Perak and Kelantan, Malaysia and parts of Thailand. They have the appearance of Negroid with dark skin, Afro hair and stockily built. They are hunter-gatherer and they practice swidden agriculture occasionally.\n\nThe Jahai people believe in a religious system with Karei (pronounced as \"Karεy\") as a supernatural force that overseas their actions and behaviours. In order to avoid attracting Karei's attention negatively, there are taboos and avoidance rules to follow. They believe Karei can be scared away or attracted to by various odors depending on Karei's preferences, for example, the unpleasant smell of a burnt crayfish. Therefore this led to a rich odor lexicon in the Jahai language, a trait also shared among the Maniq people in Thailand.\n\nThe Jahai people who are traditionally nomadic were forced by the government to live in permanent settlements in parts of the Royal Belum State Park as part of the tourist attraction. They live in isolation, lacking infrastructures such as roads, schools, health post and so on. This resulted in exhaustion of resources. Mortality rate of the Jahai people in villages along the Kejar River with up to 50% of children due to \"Serawan\" has cause the population there to dwindle from 600 to 400.\n\nOther settlements of the Jahai people in Malaysia are:-\n"}
{"id": "4064070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4064070", "title": "Jeff Adachi", "text": "Jeff Adachi\n\nJeff Adachi (born 1959 in Sacramento, California) is the elected Public Defender of San Francisco, pension reform advocate, and a former candidate for Mayor of San Francisco.\n\nAdachi is the son of a Sacramento auto mechanic and a laboratory assistant. His parents and grandparents spent part of World War II in the Rohwer War Relocation Center in Arkansas. Adachi was a notably poor student at C.K. McClatchy High School with numerous absences due to the many hours he spent on his part-time jobs. He attended Sacramento City College before transferring. Adachi received his B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley in 1981 and his Juris Doctor (J.D.) from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law in 1985.\n\nAdachi began his career as a deputy public defender for fifteen years with the San Francisco Public Defender's Office. He ultimately rose to the rank of chief attorney of the office and served in that capacity for three years. Adachi has tried over 100 jury trials and handled 3,000 criminal matters during his career.\n\nIn 2001, Kimiko Burton-Cruz, the daughter of then State Senator John Burton, was appointed Public Defender by Mayor Willie Brown. After taking office, Burton-Cruz forced Adachi out on her first day on the job, apparently for political reasons. The following year, Adachi ran against Burton-Cruz for her position and defeated her by a 55%–45% margin. Since then Adachi has been re-elected twice, both times running unopposed.\n\nAdachi was featured in the 2002 PBS documentary \"Presumed Guilty\", a film about the San Francisco Public Defender's Office, its difficult cases and complex defense strategies.\n\nAdachi is the only elected Public Defender in the state of California and runs an office of more than 100 attorneys and 60 staff members. The office's 2018-19 budget is $37.6 million. According to estimates, the office represents over 23,000 people each year who are charged with misdemeanor and felony offenses. The office is known for several innovative criminal justice programs, including Drug Court, Clean Slate expungement services, and a full-service juvenile division. In 2017, Adachi launched an Immigration Unit to represent undocumented immigrants locked in detention facilities and facing deportation. It is the third jurisdiction to offer legal representation for immigrant detainees in removal proceedings. New York City and Alameda County have similar programs.\n\nAdachi is a frequent police misconduct watchdog and bail reform advocate.\n\nAdachi was previously the president of the Asian American Bar Association of the Greater Bay Area and the San Francisco Japanese American Citizen's League, in addition to serving as a board member of the California Attorneys for Criminal Justice and the San Francisco Bar Association. At the national level, Adachi was a member of the American Bar Association's Standing Committee on Legal Aid and Indigents and is a member of the National Board of Trial Advocacy. Adachi served on the board of California Humanities until 2018 and currently serves as a board member of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers and the National Association for Public Defense.\n\nHe is the author of a series of books on passing the bar exam, including the Bar Exam Survival Kit, Bar Breaker, the MBE Survival Kit and the First Year Law School Survival Kit. He was a BAR/BRI bar review professor for over 20 years.\n\nIn 1995, he founded the Asian American Arts Foundation to help emerging artists. The foundation and produced one of the first Asian American awards programs, the Golden Ring Awards, which honored artists such as Chow Yun-Fat, Joan Chen, Oliver Stone and John Woo. The foundation awarded over $100,000 in grants.\n\nAdachi has received several accolades for his tenure as Public Defender. In chronological order, Adachi has received: the California State Bar Association's Hufstedler Award for public service; the Asian American Bar Association's Joe Morozumi Award for exceptional legal advocacy; the Mayor's Fiscal Advisory Committee's Managerial Excellence Award; the California Public Defender Association's Program of the Year Award; the American Bar Association's national award for excellence in public defense; and the California Lawyer Attorney of the Year award (CLAY) for his work in the field of prisoner reentry; the National Legal Aid and Defender Association's Reginald Heber Smith Award; Vanguard CourtWatch's Elected Official of the Year award; and the Elected Official Award for transparency from the Northern California chapter of the Society for Professional Journalists.\n\nHe is a Certified Specialist in Criminal Law (the State Bar of California Board of Legal Specialization) and a former Certified Specialist in Criminal Trial Advocacy (National Board of Trial Advocacy).\n\nIn 2010, Adachi placed \"Proposition B\" on the ballot, which would have required employees to increase the level of their contribution to defray the cost of both their pension and health care benefits. Proposition B was defeated, having faced significant opposition from unions and elected officials.\n\nIn 2011, Adachi has again placed a charter amendment on the ballot – \"Proposition D\"—which would require all employees to pay a base contribution rate towards their pension costs, require higher-earning employees to contribute an additional amount based on their salary level, cap the maximum size of pensions, and eliminate abusive and wasteful practices such as \"pension spiking.\" In response to criticisms leveled at Proposition B, Adachi's new plan exempts the lowest-paid workers from any cost increases, uses a progressive income scale to determine contributions, and does not require any health care contributions. According to the City Controller, Proposition D would save San Francisco as much as $142 million a year, and $1.6 billion over the next ten years.[3] Mayor Ed Lee has offered a competing plan – \"Proposition C\"—which would similarly require employees to contribute at a higher level to their pensions, but also requires contributions to cover health care costs. Proposition C is projected to save the city an estimated $1.29 billion over the next ten years.\n\nHis campaign has been opposed by the police and firefighter unions, as his pension reform plan would require them to contribute more to their own retirement pensions. When Adachi went to pay his respects at the June, 2011 funeral services honoring San Francisco firefighters, Lt. Vincent Perez and Anthony Valerio who were killed in a house fire in San Francisco's Diamond Heights neighborhood, he was asked to leave by a firefighter. The Fire Chief was unaware that Adachi had been asked to leave and stated that everyone had the right to show their support and respect, and that she did not support the request to leave.\n\nIn August 2011, Adachi formally entered the race for Mayor of San Francisco.\n\nAfter filing his papers Adachi stated, \"I've decided to run for Mayor of San Francisco to restore integrity and financial accountability to the city.\" He then added, \"It wasn't until I really listened to what the candidates were saying in the last few debates about pension reform that I became convinced that either the candidates don't get it or they don't want to get it, and I want to make sure that there's a voice in there talking about the fiscal realities of this city.\" Adachi added, \"This debate needs to be about what is best for the city, not about what is best for City Hall\".\n\nAdachi declined public financing under the City's new public financing law, stating that although he believes in public financing, he did not feel it was right to take the $900,000 that each candidate could receive \"at a time that we are cutting summer school for 10,000 kids because we don't have $1 million to pay for it.\" However, Adachi has agreed to abide by the voluntary spending limits contained in the new law.\n\nIn addition to restoring fiscal integrity to San Francisco through saving the City $1.7 billion over the next decade, Adachi has proposed a job creation program by investing $40 million in micro-loans to small businesses, creating up to 15,000 new jobs and $1 billion of new economic activity. Adachi is also proposing reforming the business tax through elimination of the current payroll tax system, which discourages hiring of new workers, and replacing it with a new business tax based upon net business revenue.\n\nA cornerstone of Adachi's plan is improving education by providing additional funding from the City's reserve funds to restore summer school, which has been eliminated for the last two years because of the City's fiscal crisis.\n\nOn October 12, 2011, the San Francisco Chronicle named Adachi one of the \"3 S.F. Mayoral Candidates to Consider,\" stating: \"Talk about courage. One of the city's most liberal politicians took on labor over the bedrock issue of pensions. He lost in his first attempt last year, but is back with a revised version after he wouldn't back a compromise measure also on the ballot. He's been unfairly vilified by much of the city's political establishment for daring to raise the pension problem that others preferred to ignore. His campaign shows he's more than a one-issue candidate. He has a clear grasp of a variety of issues ranging from homeless policies to taxes. His independence is unassailable.\" He placed 6th out of 16 candidates.\n\nHe wrote, produced, and directed The Slanted Screen, a 2006 documentary film about stereotypical depictions of Asian males in American cinema. He also directed \"You Don't Know Jack: The Jack Soo Story\" about Jack Soo, a Japanese American actor (well known for his role in Barney Miller) who took a Chinese name. In 2016, he made the film \"Racial Facial,\" an eight minute history of racism in the U.S. His 2017 documentary \"Defender\" won best documentary at the Independent Television Festival. The 70-minute piece followed a racially charged case tried by Adachi as well as an case handled by the office's fledgling immigration unit.\n\n"}
{"id": "4035200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4035200", "title": "Jibito", "text": "Jibito\n\nThe Jibito are an indigenous people of Peru. They first met with the Franciscans monks in 1676 in the forest near the Huallaga River, in what is now Peru's Loreto Province. After their conversion to Catholicism, they settled in villages on the western bank of the river.\n\n"}
{"id": "34869823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34869823", "title": "Kanite language", "text": "Kanite language\n\nKanite is a Papuan language spoken in Eastern Highlands Province, Papua New Guinea.\n\n"}
{"id": "51458998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51458998", "title": "Karbi script", "text": "Karbi script\n\nKarbi language is officially written in Roman script in Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao districts of Assam, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. However, in Kamrup district of Assam prefer mostly East nagari (Assamese) script. The written form Karbi language has been developing since the time of British rule in India and since then Karbi language is being written in both East Nagari and Roman script. The Karbi Lammet Amei (Appex body of Karbi language) earlier adopted East Nagari to write Karbi language, but later changed to Roman script.\n\nSince the old days Karbi people has no written form. Karbis have passed their tradition orally from generations to generations. The new generations are trying to preserve them in written form. Also new generations are coining new words to compensate the missing word the new generations have come across in new age. i.e.-Bus, Train etc. Media house has been forefront at this.\n\nIn recent trend, a section of Karbi people think that Karbi language should have its own script. In one case, Sarthe Teron Milik, Writer, introduced a new series of Karbi alphabets and numerals in his book, \"Arleng\".\n"}
{"id": "17068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17068", "title": "Kurds", "text": "Kurds\n\nThe Kurds (, \"Kurd\") or the Kurdish people (, \"Gelî kurd\") are an Iranian ethnic group of the Middle East, mostly inhabiting a contiguous area spanning adjacent parts of southeastern Turkey, northwestern Iran, northern Iraq, and northern Syria. The Kurds are culturally, historically and linguistically classified as belonging to the Iranian peoples.\n\nGlobally, the Kurds are estimated to number anywhere from a low of 30 million, to possibly as high as 45 million, by the Kurdish Institute of Paris, 2017 estimate. The Kurdish population is estimated at 15-20 million in Turkey, 10-12 million in Iran, 8-8.5 million in Iraq, 3-3.6 million in Syria, 1.2-1.5 million in the European diaspora, and 400k-500k in the former USSR - for a total of 36.4 million to 45.6 million globally, with the majority living in the region they regard as Greater Kurdistan. However, there are significant Kurdish diaspora communities in the cities of western Turkey, in particular in Istanbul. A recent Kurdish diaspora has also developed in Western countries, primarily in Germany. The Kurds are the majority population in the autonomous region of Iraqi Kurdistan, and form a significant minority group in the neighboring countries of Turkey, Iran, and Syria, where Kurdish nationalist movements continue to pursue greater autonomy and cultural rights.\n\nKurdish (Kurdish: \"Kurdî\" or کوردی) is a collection of related dialects spoken by the Kurds. It is mainly spoken in those parts of Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey which comprise Kurdistan. Kurdish holds official status in Iraq as a national language alongside Arabic, is recognized in Iran as a regional language, and in Armenia as a minority language.\n\nThe Kurdish languages belong to the northwestern sub‑group of the Iranian languages, which in turn belongs to the Indo-Iranian branch of the Indo-European family.\n\nMost Kurds are either bilingual or multilingual, speaking the language of their respective nation of origin, such as Arabic, Persian, and Turkish as a second language alongside their native Kurdish, while those in diaspora communities often speak three or more languages.\n\nAccording to Mackenzie, there are few linguistic features that all Kurdish dialects have in common and that are not at the same time found in other Iranian languages.\n\nThe Kurdish dialects according to Mackenzie are classified as:\n\nThe Zaza and Gorani are ethnic Kurds, but the Zaza–Gorani languages are not classified as Kurdish.\n\nCommenting on the differences between the dialects of Kurdish, Kreyenbroek clarifies that in some ways, Kurmanji and Sorani are as different from each other as is English from German, giving the example that Kurmanji has grammatical gender and case endings, but Sorani does not, and observing that referring to Sorani and Kurmanji as \"dialects\" of one language is supported only by \"their common origin ... and the fact that this usage reflects the sense of ethnic identity and unity of the Kurds.\"\n\nThe number of Kurds living in Southwest Asia is estimated at close to 30 million, with another one or two million living in diaspora. Kurds comprise anywhere from 18% to 20% of the population in Turkey, possibly as high as 25%; 15 to 20% in Iraq; 10% in Iran; and 9% in Syria. Kurds form regional majorities in all four of these countries, \"viz.\" in Turkish Kurdistan, Iraqi Kurdistan, Iranian Kurdistan and Syrian Kurdistan. The Kurds are the fourth largest ethnic group in West Asia after the Arabs, Persians, and Turks.\n\nThe total number of Kurds in 1991 was placed at 22.5 million, with 48% of this number living in Turkey, 18% in Iraq, 24% in Iran, and 4% in Syria.\n\nRecent emigration accounts for a population of close to 1.5 million in Western countries, about half of them in Germany.\n\nA special case are the Kurdish populations in the Transcaucasus and Central Asia, displaced there mostly in the time of the Russian Empire, who underwent independent developments for more than a century and have developed an ethnic identity in their own right. This groups' population was estimated at close to 0.4 million in 1990.\n\n\"The land of Karda\" is mentioned on a Sumerian clay-tablet dated to the 3rd millennium B.C. This land was inhabited by \"the people of Su\" who dwelt in the southern regions of Lake Van; The philological connection between \"Kurd\" and \"Karda\" is uncertain but the relationship is considered possible. Other Sumerian clay-tablets referred to the people, who lived in the land of Karda, as the Qarduchi and the Qurti. Karda/Qardu is etymologically related to the Assyrian term Urartu and the Hebrew term Ararat.\n\nQarti or Qartas, who were originally settled on the mountains north of Mesopotamia, are considered as a probable ancestor of the Kurds. Akkadians were attacked by nomads coming through Qartas territory at the end of 3rd millennium B.C. Akkadians distinguished them as Guti. They conquered Mesopotamia in 2150 B.C. and ruled with 21 kings until defeated by the Sumerian king Utu-hengal.\n\nMany Kurds consider themselves descended from the Medes, an ancient Iranian people, and even use a calendar dating from 612 B.C., when the Assyrian capital of Nineveh was conquered by the Medes. The claimed Median descent is reflected in the words of the Kurdish national anthem: \"We are the children of the Medes and Kai Khosrow.\" However, MacKenzie and Asatrian challenge the relation of the Median language to Kurdish. The Kurdish languages, on the other hand, form a subgroup of the Northwestern Iranian languages like Median. Some researchers consider the independent Kardouchoi as the ancestors of the Kurds, while others prefer Cyrtians. The term \"Kurd,\" however, is first encountered in Arabic sources of the seventh century. Books from the early Islamic era, including those containing legends such as the Shahnameh and the Middle Persian Kar-Namag i Ardashir i Pabagan, and other early Islamic sources provide early attestation of the name \"Kurd\". The Kurds have ethnically diverse origins.\n\nDuring the Sassanid era, in \"Kar-Namag i Ardashir i Pabagan\", a short prose work written in Middle Persian, Ardashir I is depicted as having battled the Kurds and their leader, Madig. After initially sustaining a heavy defeat, Ardashir I was successful in subjugating the Kurds. In a letter Ardashir I received from his foe, Ardavan V, which is also featured in the same work, he is referred to as being a Kurd himself. The usage of the term \"Kurd\" during this time period most likely was a social term, designating Northwestern Iranian nomads, rather than a concrete ethnic group.\n\nSimilarly, in AD 360, the Sassanid king Shapur II marched into the Roman province Zabdicene, to conquer its chief city, Bezabde, present-day Cizre. \nHe found it heavily fortified, and guarded by three legions and a large body of Kurdish archers. After a long and hard-fought siege, Shapur II breached the walls, conquered the city and massacred all its defenders. Thereafter he had the strategically located city repaired, provisioned and garrisoned with his best troops.\n\nThere is also a 7th-century text by an unidentified author, written about the legendary Christian martyr Mar Qardagh. He lived in the 4th century, during the reign of Shapur II, and during his travels is said to have encountered Mar Abdisho, a deacon and martyr, who, after having been questioned of his origins by Mar Qardagh and his Marzobans, stated that his parents were originally from an Assyrian village called Hazza, but were driven out and subsequently settled in Tamanon, a village in \"the land of the Kurds\", identified as being in the region of Mount Judi.\n\nEarly Syriac sources use the terms \"Hurdanaye, Kurdanaye, Kurdaye\" to refer to the Kurds. According to Michael the Syrian, Hurdanaye separated from Tayaye Arabs and sought refuge with the Byzantine Emperor Theophilus. He also mentions the Persian troops who fought against Musa chief of Hurdanaye in the region of Qardu in 841. According to Barhebreaus, a king appeared to the Kurdanaye and they rebelled against the Arabs in 829. Michael the Syrian considered them as pagan, followers of mahdi and adepts of Magianism. Their mahdi called himself Christ and the Holy Ghost.\n\nIn the early Middle Ages, the Kurds sporadically appear in Arabic sources, though the term was still not being used for a specific people; instead it referred to an amalgam of nomadic western Iranic tribes, who were distinct from Persians. However, in the High Middle Ages, the Kurdish ethnic identity gradually materialized, as one can find clear evidence of the Kurdish ethnic identity and solidarity in texts of the 12th and 13th century, though, the term was also still being used in the social sense. From 11th century onward, the term Kurd is explicitly defined as an ethnonym and this does not suggest synonymity with the ethnographic category nomad. Al-Tabari wrote that in 639, Hormuzan, a Sasanian general originating from a noble family, battled against the Islamic invaders in Khuzestan, and called upon the Kurds to aid him in battle. However, they were defeated and brought under Islamic rule.\n\nIn 838, a Kurdish leader based in Mosul, named Mir Jafar, revolted against the Caliph Al-Mu'tasim who sent the commander Itakh to combat him. Itakh won this war and executed many of the Kurds. Eventually Arabs conquered the Kurdish regions and gradually converted the majority of Kurds to Islam, often incorporating them into the military, such as the Hamdanids whose dynastic family members also frequently intermarried with Kurds.\n\nIn 934 the Daylamite Buyid dynasty was founded, and subsequently conquered most of present-day Iran and Iraq. During the time of rule of this dynasty, Kurdish chief and ruler, Badr ibn Hasanwaih, established himself as one of the most important emirs of the time.\n\nIn the 10th-12th centuries, a number of Kurdish principalities and dynasties were founded, ruling Kurdistan and neighbouring areas:\n\nDue to the Turkic invasion of Anatolia, the 11th century Kurdish dynasties crumbled and became incorporated into the Seljuk Dynasty. Kurds would hereafter be used in great numbers in the armies of the Zengids. Succeeding the Zengids, the Kurdish Ayyubids established themselves in 1171, first under the leadership of Saladin. Saladin led the Muslims to recapture the city of Jerusalem from the Crusaders at the Battle of Hattin; also frequently clashing with the Hashashins. The Ayyubid dynasty lasted until 1341 when the Ayyubid sultanate fell to Mongolian invasions.\n\nThe Safavid Dynasty, established in 1501, also established its rule over Kurdish-inhabited territories. The paternal line of this family actually had Kurdish roots, tracing back to Firuz-Shah Zarrin-Kolah, a dignitary who moved from Kurdistan to Ardabil in the 11th century. The Battle of Chaldiran in 1514 that culminated in what is nowadays Iran's West Azerbaijan Province, marked the start of the Ottoman-Persian Wars between the Iranian Safavids (and successive Iranian dynasties) and the Ottomans. For the next 300 years, many of the Kurds found themselves living in territories that frequently changed hands between Ottoman Turkey and Iran during the protracted series of Ottoman-Persian Wars.\n\nThe Safavid king Ismail I (r. 1501-1524) put down a Yezidi rebellion which went on from 1506-1510. A century later, the year-long Battle of Dimdim took place, wherein the Safavid king Abbas I (r. 1588-1629) succeeded in putting down the rebellion led by the Kurdish ruler Amir Khan Lepzerin. Thereafter, a large number of Kurds were deported to Khorasan, not only to weaken the Kurds, but also to protect the eastern border from invading Afghan and Turkmen tribes. Other forced movements and deportations of other groups were also implemented by Abbas I and his successors, most notably of the Armenians, the Georgians, and the Circassians, who were moved en masse to and from other districts within the Persian empire.\n\nThe Kurds of Khorasan, numbering around 700,000, still use the Kurmanji Kurdish dialect. Several Kurdish noblemen served the Safavids and rose to prominence, such as Shaykh Ali Khan Zanganeh, who served as the grand vizier of the Safavid shah Suleiman I (r. 1666–1694) from 1669 to 1689. Due to his efforts in reforming the declining Iranian economy, he has been called the \"Safavid Amir Kabir\" in modern historiography. His son, Shahqoli Khan Zanganeh, also served as a grand vizier from 1707 to 1716. Another Kurdish statesman, Ganj Ali Khan, was close friends with Abbas I, and served as governor in various provinces and was known for his loyal service.\n\nAfter the fall of the Safavids, Iran fell under the control of the Afsharid Empire ruled by Nader Shah at its peak. After Nader's death, Iran fell into civil war, with multiple leaders trying to gain control over the country. Ultimately, it was Karim Khan, a Laki general of the Zand tribe who would come to power. \nThe country would flourish during Karim Khan's reign; a strong resurgence of the arts would take place, and international ties were strengthened. Karim Khan was portrayed as being a ruler who truly cared about his subjects, thereby gaining the title Vakil e-Ra'aayaa (meaning Representative of the People in Persian). Though not as powerful in its geo-political and military reach as the preceding Safavids and Afsharids or even the early Qajars, he managed to reassert Iranian hegemony over its integral territories in the Caucasus, and presided over an era of relative peace, prosperity, and tranquility. In Ottoman Iraq, following the Ottoman–Persian War (1775–76), Karim Khan managed to seize Basra for several years.\n\nAfter Karim Khan's death, the dynasty would decline in favour of the rival Qajars due to infighting between the Khan's incompetent offspring. It wasn't until Lotf Ali Khan, 10 years later, that the dynasty would once again be led by an adept ruler. By this time however, the Qajars had already progressed greatly, having taken a number of Zand territories. Lotf Ali Khan made multiple successes before ultimately succumbing to the rivaling faction. Iran and all its Kurdish territories would hereby be incorporated in the Qajar Dynasty.\n\nThe Kurdish tribes present in Baluchistan and some of those in Fars are believed to be remnants of those that assisted and accompanied Lotf Ali Khan and Karim Khan, respectively.\n\nWhen Sultan Selim I, after defeating Shah Ismail I in 1514, annexed Western Armenia and Kurdistan, he entrusted the organisation of the conquered territories to Idris, the historian, who was a Kurd of Bitlis. He divided the territory into \"sanjaks\" or districts, and, making no attempt to interfere with the principle of heredity, installed the local chiefs as governors. He also resettled the rich pastoral country between Erzerum and Erivan, which had lain in waste since the passage of Timur, with Kurds from the Hakkari and Bohtan districts. For the next centuries, from the Peace of Amasya until the first half of the 19th century, several regions of the wide Kurdish homelands would be contested as well between the Ottomans and the neighbouring rival successive Iranian dynasties (Safavids, Afsharids, Qajars) in the frequent Ottoman-Persian Wars.\n\nThe Ottoman centralist policies in the beginning of the 19th century aimed to remove power from the principalities and localities, which directly affected the Kurdish emirs. Bedirhan Bey was the last emir of the Cizre Bohtan Emirate after initiating an uprising in 1847 against the Ottomans to protect the current structures of the Kurdish principalities. Although his uprising is not classified as a nationalist one, his children played significant roles in the emergence and the development of Kurdish nationalism through the next century.\n\nThe first modern Kurdish nationalist movement emerged in 1880 with an uprising led by a Kurdish landowner and head of the powerful Shemdinan family, Sheik Ubeydullah, who demanded political autonomy or outright independence for Kurds as well as the recognition of a Kurdistan state without interference from Turkish or Persian authorities. The uprising against Qajar Persia and the Ottoman Empire was ultimately suppressed by the Ottomans and Ubeydullah, along with other notables, were exiled to Istanbul.\n\nKurdish nationalism emerged after World War I with the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire which had historically successfully integrated (but not assimilated) the Kurds, through use of forced repression of Kurdish movements to gain independence. Revolts did occur sporadically but only in 1880 with the uprising led by Sheik Ubeydullah did the Kurds as an ethnic group or nation make demands. Ottoman sultan Abdul Hamid responded with a campaign of integration by co-opting prominent Kurdish opponents to strengthen Ottoman power with offers of prestigious positions in his government. This strategy appears to have been successful given the loyalty displayed by the Kurdish Hamidiye regiments during World War I.\n\nThe Kurdish ethno-nationalist movement that emerged following World War I and the end of the Ottoman Empire was largely a reaction to the changes taking place in mainstream Turkey, primarily to the radical secularization, which the strongly Muslim Kurds abhorred, to the centralization of authority, which threatened the power of local chieftains and Kurdish autonomy, and to rampant Turkish nationalism in the new Turkish Republic, which obviously threatened to marginalize them.\n\nJakob Künzler, head of a missionary hospital in Urfa, has documented the large scale ethnic cleansing of both Armenians and Kurds by the Young Turks. He has given a detailed account of the deportation of Kurds from Erzurum and Bitlis in the winter of 1916. The Kurds were perceived to be subversive elements that would take the Russian side in the war. In order to eliminate this threat, Young Turks embarked on a large scale deportation of Kurds from the regions of \"Djabachdjur\", \"Palu\", \"Musch\", \"Erzurum\" and \"Bitlis\". Around 300,000 Kurds were forced to move southwards to Urfa and then westwards to Aintab and Marasch. In the summer of 1917, Kurds were moved to Konya in central Anatolia. Through these measures, the Young Turk leaders aimed at weakening the political influence of the Kurds by deporting them from their ancestral lands and by dispersing them in small pockets of exiled communities. By the end of World War I, up to 700,000 Kurds had been forcibly deported and almost half of the displaced perished.\n\nSome of the Kurdish groups sought self-determination and the confirmation of Kurdish autonomy in the Treaty of Sèvres, but in the aftermath of World War I, Kemal Atatürk prevented such a result. Kurds backed by the United Kingdom declared independence in 1927 and established the Republic of Ararat. Turkey suppressed Kurdist revolts in 1925, 1930, and 1937–1938, while Iran in the 1920s suppressed Simko Shikak at Lake Urmia and Jaafar Sultan of the Hewraman region, who controlled the region between Marivan and north of Halabja. A short-lived Soviet-sponsored Kurdish Republic of Mahabad in Iran did not long outlast World War II.\nFrom 1922–1924 in Iraq a Kingdom of Kurdistan existed. When Ba'athist administrators thwarted Kurdish nationalist ambitions in Iraq, war broke out in the 1960s. In 1970 the Kurds rejected limited territorial self-rule within Iraq, demanding larger areas including the oil-rich Kirkuk region.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s, several large scale Kurdish revolts took place in Kurdistan. Following these rebellions, the area of Turkish Kurdistan was put under martial law and a large number of the Kurds were displaced. The Turkish government also encouraged resettlement of Albanians from Kosovo and Assyrians in the region to change the make-up of the population. These events and measures led to a long-lasting mutual distrust between Ankara and the Kurds . During the relatively open government of the 1950s, Kurds gained political office and started working within the framework of the Turkish Republic to further their interests, but this move towards integration was halted with the 1960 Turkish coup d'état. The 1970s saw an evolution in Kurdish nationalism as Marxist political thought influenced some in the new generation of Kurdish nationalists opposed to the local feudal authorities who had been a traditional source of opposition to authority; eventually they would form the militant separatist organization PKK, also known as the Kurdistan Workers' Party in English. The Kurdistan Workers' Party later abandoned Marxism-Leninism.\n\nKurds are often regarded as \"the largest ethnic group without a state.\" The Kurdish claim of \"statelessness\" is rejected by some researchers such as Martin van Bruinessen and some other scholars who seem to agree with the official Turkish position. They argue that while some level of Kurdish cultural, social, political and ideological heterogeneity may exist, the Kurdish community has long thrived over the centuries as a generally peaceful and well integrated part of Turkish society, with hostilities erupting only in recent years. Michael Radu who had worked for the United States's Pennsylvania Foreign Policy Research Institute argued that the claim of Kurdish \"statelessness\" comes primarily from Kurdish nationalists, Western human rights activists, and European leftists.\n\nThe exact origins of the name \"Kurd\" are unclear. The underlying toponym is recorded in Assyrian as \"Qardu\" and in Middle Bronze Age Sumerian as \"Kar-da\". Assyrian \"Qardu\" refers to an area in the upper Tigris basin, and it is presumably reflected in corrupted form in Classical Arabic \"Ǧūdī\", re-adopted in Kurdish as \"Cûdî\". The name would be continued as the first element in the toponym \"Corduene\", mentioned by Xenophon as the tribe who opposed the retreat of the Ten Thousand through the mountains north of Mesopotamia in the 4th century BC.\n\nThere are, however, dissenting views, which do not derive the name of the Kurds from \"Qardu\" and \"Corduene\" but opt for derivation from \"Cyrtii\" (\"Cyrtaei\") instead.\n\nRegardless of its possible roots in ancient toponymy, the ethnonym \"Kurd\" might be derived from a term \"kwrt-\" used in Middle Persian as a common noun to refer to \"nomads\" or \"tent-dwellers,\" which could be applied as an attribute to any Iranian group with such a lifestyle.\n\nThe term gained the characteristic of an ethnonym following the Muslim conquest of Persia, as it was adopted into Arabic and gradually became associated with an amalgamation of Iranian and Iranicised tribes and groups in the region.\n\nIt is also hypothesized that \"Kurd\" could derive from the Persian word \"gord\" , because the Arabic script lacks a symbol corresponding uniquely to \"g\" (گ).\n\nSherefxan Bidlisi in the 16th century states that there are four division of \"Kurds\": \"Kurmanj\", \"Lur\", \"Kalhor\" and \"Guran\", each of which speak a different dialect or language variation. Paul (2008) notes that the 16th-century usage of the term \"Kurd\" as recorded by Bidlisi, regardless of linguistic grouping, might still reflect an incipient Northwestern Iranian \"Kurdish\" ethnic identity uniting the Kurmanj, Kalhur, and Guran.\n\nAccording to CIA Factbook, Kurds formed approximately 18% of the population in Turkey (approximately 14 million) in 2008. One Western source estimates that up to 25% of the Turkish population is Kurdish (approximately 18-19 million people). Kurdish sources claim there are as many as 20 or 25 million Kurds in Turkey.\nIn 1980, Ethnologue estimated the number of Kurdish-speakers in Turkey at around five million, when the country's population stood at 44 million. Kurds form the largest minority group in Turkey, and they have posed the most serious and persistent challenge to the official image of a homogeneous society. This classification was changed to the new euphemism of \"Eastern Turk\" in 1980. Nowadays the Kurds, in Turkey, are still known under the name \"Easterner\" (Doğulu).\n\nSeveral large scale Kurdish revolts in 1925, 1930 and 1938 were suppressed by the Turkish government and more than one million Kurds were forcibly relocated between 1925 and 1938. The use of Kurdish language, dress, folklore, and names were banned and the Kurdish-inhabited areas remained under martial law until 1946. The Ararat revolt, which reached its apex in 1930, was only suppressed after a massive military campaign including destruction of many villages and their populations. \nBy the 1970s, Kurdish leftist organizations such as \"Kurdistan Socialist Party-Turkey\" (KSP-T) emerged in Turkey which were against violence and supported civil activities and participation in elections. In 1977, \"Mehdi Zana\" a supporter of KSP-T won the mayoralty of Diyarbakir in the local elections. At about the same time, generational fissures gave birth to two new organizations: the \"National Liberation of Kurdistan\" and the \"Kurdistan Workers Party\".\n\nThe words \"Kurds\", \"Kurdistan\", or \"Kurdish\" were officially banned by the Turkish government. Following the military coup of 1980, the Kurdish language was officially prohibited in public and private life. Many people who spoke, published, or sang in Kurdish were arrested and imprisoned. The Kurds are still not allowed to get a primary education in their mother tongue and they don't have a right to self-determination, even though Turkey has signed the ICCPR. There is ongoing discrimination against and “otherization” of Kurds in society.\n\nThe Partiya Karkerên Kurdistan (PKK), also known as \"KADEK\" and \"Kongra-Gel\" is Kurdish militant organization which has waged an armed struggle against the Turkish state for cultural and political rights and self-determination for the Kurds. Turkey's military allies the US, the EU, and NATO see the PKK as a terrorist organization while the UN, Switzerland, Russia, China and India have refused to add the PKK to their terrorist list. Some of them have even supported the PKK.\n\nBetween 1984 and 1999, the PKK and the Turkish military engaged in open war, and much of the countryside in the southeast was depopulated, as Kurdish civilians moved from villages to bigger cities such as Diyarbakır, Van, and Şırnak, as well as to the cities of western Turkey and even to western Europe. The causes of the depopulation included mainly the Turkish state's military operations, state's political actions, Turkish Deep state actions, the poverty of the southeast and PKK atrocities against Kurdish clans which were against them. Turkish State actions have included forced inscription, forced evacuation, destruction of villages, severe harassment, illegal arrests and executions of Kurdish civilians.\n\nSince the 1970s, the European Court of Human Rights has condemned Turkey for the thousands of human rights abuses. The judgments are related to executions of Kurdish civilians, torturing, forced displacements systematic destruction of villages, arbitrary arrests murdered and disappeared Kurdish journalists.\nLeyla Zana, the first Kurdish female MP from Diyarbakir, caused an uproar in Turkish Parliament after adding the following sentence in Kurdish to her parliamentary oath during the swearing-in ceremony in 1994: \"I take this oath for the brotherhood of the Turkish and Kurdish peoples.\"\n\nIn March 1994, the Turkish Parliament voted to lift the immunity of Zana and five other Kurdish DEP members: Hatip Dicle, Ahmet Turk, Sirri Sakik, Orhan Dogan and Selim Sadak. Zana, Dicle, Sadak and Dogan were sentenced to 15 years in jail by the Supreme Court in October 1995. Zana was awarded the Sakharov Prize for human rights by the European Parliament in 1995. She was released in 2004 amid warnings from European institutions that the continued imprisonment of the four Kurdish MPs would affect Turkey's bid to join the EU. The 2009 local elections resulted in 5.7% for Kurdish political party DTP.\n\nOfficially protected death squads are accused of the disappearance of 3,200 Kurds and Assyrians in 1993 and 1994 in the so-called \"mystery killings\".\nKurdish politicians, human-rights activists, journalists, teachers and other members of intelligentsia were among the victims. Virtually none of the perpetrators were investigated nor punished. Turkish government also encouraged Islamic extremist group Hezbollah to assassinate suspected PKK members and often ordinary Kurds. \"Azimet Köylüoğlu\", the state minister of human rights, revealed the extent of security forces' excesses in autumn 1994:\n\"While acts of terrorism in other regions are done by the PKK; in Tunceli it is state terrorism. In Tunceli, it is the state that is evacuating and burning villages. In the southeast there are two million people left homeless.\"\n\nThe Kurdish region of Iran has been a part of the country since ancient times. Nearly all Kurdistan was part of Persian Empire until its Western part was lost during wars against the Ottoman Empire. Following the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 Tehran had demanded all lost territories including Turkish Kurdistan, Mosul, and even Diyarbakır, but demands were quickly rejected by Western powers. This area has been divided by modern Turkey, Syria and Iraq. Today, the Kurds inhabit mostly northwestern territories known as Iranian Kurdistan but also the northeastern region of Khorasan, and constitute approximately 7-10% of Iran's overall population (6.5–7.9 million), compared to 10.6% (2 million) in 1956 and 8% (800 thousand) in 1850.\n\nUnlike in other Kurdish-populated countries, there are strong ethnolinguistical and cultural ties between Kurds, Persians and others as Iranian peoples. Some modern Iranian dynasties like the Safavids and Zands are considered to be partly of Kurdish origin. Kurdish literature in all of its forms (Kurmanji, Sorani, and Gorani) has been developed within historical Iranian boundaries under strong influence of the Persian language. The Kurds sharing much of their history with the rest of Iran is seen as reason for why Kurdish leaders in Iran do not want a separate Kurdish state\n\nThe government of Iran has never employed the same level of brutality against its own Kurds like Turkey or Iraq, but it has always been implacably opposed to any suggestion of Kurdish separatism. During and shortly after the First World War the government of Iran was ineffective and had very little control over events in the country and several Kurdish tribal chiefs gained local political power, even established large confederations. At the same time waves of nationalism from the disintegrating Ottoman Empire partly influenced some Kurdish chiefs in border regions to pose as Kurdish nationalist leaders. Prior to this, identity in both countries largely relied upon religion i.e. Shia Islam in the particular case of Iran. In 19th century Iran, Shia–Sunni animosity and the describing of Sunni Kurds as an Ottoman fifth column was quite frequent.\n\nDuring the late 1910s and early 1920s, tribal revolt led by Kurdish chieftain Simko Shikak struck north western Iran. Although elements of Kurdish nationalism were present in this movement, historians agree these were hardly articulate enough to justify a claim that recognition of Kurdish identity was a major issue in Simko's movement, and he had to rely heavily on conventional tribal motives. Government forces and non-Kurds were not the only ones to suffer in the attacks, the Kurdish population was also robbed and assaulted. Rebels do not appear to have felt any sense of unity or solidarity with fellow Kurds. Kurdish insurgency and seasonal migrations in the late 1920s, along with long-running tensions between Tehran and Ankara, resulted in border clashes and even military penetrations in both Iranian and Turkish territory. Two regional powers have used Kurdish tribes as tool for own political benefits: Turkey has provided military help and refuge for anti-Iranian Turcophone Shikak rebels in 1918-1922, while Iran did the same during Ararat rebellion against Turkey in 1930. Reza Shah's military victory over Kurdish and Turkic tribal leaders initiated a repressive era toward non-Iranian minorities. Government's forced detribalization and sedentarization in 1920s and 1930s resulted with many other tribal revolts in Iranian regions of Azerbaijan, Luristan and Kurdistan. In particular case of the Kurds, this repressive policies partly contributed to developing nationalism among some tribes.\nAs a response to growing Pan-Turkism and Pan-Arabism in region which were seen as potential threats to the territorial integrity of Iran, Pan-Iranist ideology has been developed in the early 1920s. Some of such groups and journals openly advocated Iranian support to the Kurdish rebellion against Turkey. Secular Pahlavi dynasty has endorsed Iranian ethnic nationalism which seen the Kurds as integral part of the Iranian nation. Mohammad Reza Pahlavi has personally praised the Kurds as \"pure Iranians\" or \"one of the most noble Iranian peoples\". Another significant ideology during this period was Marxism which arose among Kurds under influence of USSR. It culminated in the Iran crisis of 1946 which included a separatist attempt of KDP-I and communist groups to establish the Soviet puppet government called Republic of Mahabad. It arose along with Azerbaijan People's Government, another Soviet puppet state. The state itself encompassed a very small territory, including Mahabad and the adjacent cities, unable to incorporate the southern Iranian Kurdistan which fell inside the Anglo-American zone, and unable to attract the tribes outside Mahabad itself to the nationalist cause. As a result, when the Soviets withdrew from Iran in December 1946, government forces were able to enter Mahabad unopposed.\n\nSeveral nationalist and Marxist insurgencies continued for decades (1967, 1979, 1989–96) led by KDP-I and Komalah, but those two organization have never advocated a separate Kurdish state or greater Kurdistan as did the PKK in Turkey. Still, many of dissident leaders, among others Qazi Muhammad and Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, were executed or assassinated. During Iran–Iraq War, Tehran has provided support for Iraqi-based Kurdish groups like KDP or PUK, along with asylum for 1,400,000 Iraqi refugees, mostly Kurds. Kurdish Marxist groups have been marginalized in Iran since the dissolution of the Soviet Union. In 2004 new insurrection started by PJAK, separatist organization affiliated with the Turkey-based PKK and designated as terrorist by Iran, Turkey and the United States. Some analysts claim PJAK do not pose any serious threat to the government of Iran. Cease-fire has been established in September 2011 following the Iranian offensive on PJAK bases, but several clashes between PJAK and IRGC took place after it. Since the Iranian Revolution of 1979, accusations of \"discrimination\" by Western organizations and of \"foreign involvement\" by Iranian side have become very frequent.\n\nKurds have been well integrated in Iranian political life during reign of various governments. Kurdish liberal political Karim Sanjabi has served as minister of education under Mohammad Mossadegh in 1952. During the reign of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi some members of parliament and high army officers were Kurds, and there was even a Kurdish Cabinet Minister. During the reign of the Pahlavis Kurds received many favours from the authorities, for instance to keep their land after the land reforms of 1962. In the early 2000s, presence of thirty Kurdish deputies in the 290-strong parliament has also helped to undermine claims of discrimination. Some of the more influential Kurdish politicians during recent years include former first vice president Mohammad Reza Rahimi and Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, Mayor of Tehran and second-placed presidential candidate in 2013. Kurdish language is today used more than at any other time since the Revolution, including in several newspapers and among schoolchildren. A large number of Iranian Kurds show no interest in Kurdish nationalism, particularly Kurds of the Shia faith who sometimes even vigorously reject idea of autonomy, preferring direct rule from Tehran. The issue of Kurdish nationalism and Iranian national identity is generally only questioned in the peripheral Kurdish dominated regions where the Sunni faith is prevalent.\n\nKurds constitute approximately 17% of Iraq's population. They are the majority in at least three provinces in northern Iraq which are together known as Iraqi Kurdistan. Kurds also have a presence in Kirkuk, Mosul, Khanaqin, and Baghdad. Around 300,000 Kurds live in the Iraqi capital Baghdad, 50,000 in the city of Mosul and around 100,000 elsewhere in southern Iraq.\n\nKurds led by Mustafa Barzani were engaged in heavy fighting against successive Iraqi regimes from 1960 to 1975. In March 1970, Iraq announced a peace plan providing for Kurdish autonomy. The plan was to be implemented in four years. However, at the same time, the Iraqi regime started an Arabization program in the oil-rich regions of Kirkuk and Khanaqin. The peace agreement did not last long, and in 1974, the Iraqi government began a new offensive against the Kurds. Moreover, in March 1975, Iraq and Iran signed the Algiers Accord, according to which Iran cut supplies to Iraqi Kurds. Iraq started another wave of Arabization by moving Arabs to the oil fields in Kurdistan, particularly those around Kirkuk. Between 1975 and 1978, 200,000 Kurds were deported to other parts of Iraq.\nDuring the Iran–Iraq War in the 1980s, the regime implemented anti-Kurdish policies and a \"de facto\" civil war broke out. Iraq was widely condemned by the international community, but was never seriously punished for oppressive measures such as the mass murder of hundreds of thousands of civilians, the wholesale destruction of thousands of villages and the deportation of thousands of Kurds to southern and central Iraq.\n\nThe genocidal campaign, conducted between 1986 and 1989 and culminating in 1988, carried out by the Iraqi government against the Kurdish population was called \"Anfal\" (\"Spoils of War\"). The Anfal campaign led to destruction of over two thousand villages and killing of 182,000 Kurdish civilians. The campaign included the use of ground offensives, aerial bombing, systematic destruction of settlements, mass deportation, firing squads, and chemical attacks, including the most infamous attack on the Kurdish town of Halabja in 1988 that killed 5000 civilians instantly.\nAfter the collapse of the Kurdish uprising in March 1991, Iraqi troops recaptured most of the Kurdish areas and 1.5 million Kurds abandoned their homes and fled to the Turkish and Iranian borders. It is estimated that close to 20,000 Kurds succumbed to death due to exhaustion, lack of food, exposure to cold and disease. On 5 April 1991, UN Security Council passed resolution 688 which condemned the repression of Iraqi Kurdish civilians and demanded that Iraq end its repressive measures and allow immediate access to international humanitarian organizations. This was the first international document (since the League of Nations arbitration of Mosul in 1926) to mention Kurds by name. In mid-April, the Coalition established \"safe havens\" inside Iraqi borders and prohibited Iraqi planes from flying north of 36th parallel. In October 1991, Kurdish guerrillas captured Erbil and Sulaimaniyah after a series of clashes with Iraqi troops. In late October, Iraqi government retaliated by imposing a food and fuel embargo on the Kurds and stopping to pay civil servants in the Kurdish region. The embargo, however, backfired and Kurds held parliamentary elections in May 1992 and established Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG).\n\nThe Kurdish population welcomed the American troops in 2003 by holding celebrations and dancing in the streets. The area controlled by Peshmerga was expanded, and Kurds now have effective control in Kirkuk and parts of Mosul. The authority of the KRG and legality of its laws and regulations were recognized in the articles 113 and 137 of the new Iraqi Constitution ratified in 2005. By the beginning of 2006, the two Kurdish administrations of Erbil and Sulaimaniya were unified. On 14 August 2007, Yazidis were targeted in a series of bombings that became the deadliest suicide attack since the Iraq War began, killing 796 civilians, wounding 1,562.\n\nKurds account for 9% of Syria's population, a total of around 1.6 million people. This makes them the largest ethnic minority in the country. They are mostly concentrated in the northeast and the north, but there are also significant Kurdish populations in Aleppo and Damascus. Kurds often speak Kurdish in public, unless all those present do not. According to Amnesty International, Kurdish human rights activists are mistreated and persecuted. No political parties are allowed for any group, Kurdish or otherwise.\n\nTechniques used to suppress the ethnic identity of Kurds in Syria include various bans on the use of the Kurdish language, refusal to register children with Kurdish names, the replacement of Kurdish place names with new names in Arabic, the prohibition of businesses that do not have Arabic names, the prohibition of Kurdish private schools, and the prohibition of books and other materials written in Kurdish. Having been denied the right to Syrian nationality, around 300,000 Kurds have been deprived of any social rights, in violation of international law. As a consequence, these Kurds are in effect trapped within Syria. In March 2011, in part to avoid further demonstrations and unrest from spreading across Syria, the Syrian government promised to tackle the issue and grant Syrian citizenship to approximately 300,000 Kurds who had been previously denied the right.\n\nOn 12 March 2004, beginning at a stadium in Qamishli (a largely Kurdish city in northeastern Syria), clashes between Kurds and Syrians broke out and continued over a number of days. At least thirty people were killed and more than 160 injured. The unrest spread to other Kurdish towns along the northern border with Turkey, and then to Damascus and Aleppo.\n\nAs a result of Syrian civil war, since July 2012, Kurds were able to take control of large parts of Syrian Kurdistan from Andiwar in extreme northeast to Jindires in extreme northwest Syria. The Syrian Kurds started the Rojava Revolution in 2013.\n\nKurdish-inhabited Afrin Canton has been occupied by Turkish Armed Forces and Turkish-backed Free Syrian Army since the Turkish military operation in Afrin in early 2018. Between 150,000 and 200,000 people were displaced due to the Turkish intervention.\n\nBetween the 1930s and 1980s, Armenia was a part of the Soviet Union, within which Kurds, like other ethnic groups, had the status of a protected minority. Armenian Kurds were permitted their own state-sponsored newspaper, radio broadcasts and cultural events. During the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh, many non-Yazidi Kurds were forced to leave their homes since both the Azeri and non-Yazidi Kurds were Muslim.\n\nIn 1920, two Kurdish-inhabited areas of Jewanshir (capital Kalbajar) and eastern Zangazur (capital Lachin) were combined to form the Kurdistan Okrug (or \"Red Kurdistan\"). The period of existence of the Kurdish administrative unit was brief and did not last beyond 1929. Kurds subsequently faced many repressive measures, including deportations, imposed by the Soviet government. As a result of the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh, many Kurdish areas have been destroyed and more than 150,000 Kurds have been deported since 1988 by separatist Armenian forces.\n\nAccording to a report by the Council of Europe, approximately 1.3 million Kurds live in Western Europe. The earliest immigrants were Kurds from Turkey, who settled in Germany, Austria, the Benelux countries, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and France during the 1960s. Successive periods of political and social turmoil in the region during the 1980s and 1990s brought new waves of Kurdish refugees, mostly from Iran and Iraq under Saddam Hussein, came to Europe. \nIn recent years, many Kurdish asylum seekers from both Iran and Iraq have settled in the United Kingdom (especially in the town of Dewsbury and in some northern areas of London), which has sometimes caused media controversy over their right to remain. \nThere have been tensions between Kurds and the established Muslim community in Dewsbury, which is home to very traditional mosques such as the Markazi. Since the beginning of the turmoil in Syria many of the refugees of the Syrian Civil War are Syrian Kurds and as a result many of the current Syrian asylum seekers in Germany are of Kurdish descent.\n\nThere was substantial immigration of ethnic Kurds in Canada and the United States, who are mainly political refugees and immigrants seeking economic opportunity. According to a 2011 Statistics Canada household survey, there were 11,685 people of Kurdish ethnic background living in Canada, and according to the 2011 Census, 10,325 Canadians spoke Kurdish language. In the United States, Kurdish immigrants started to settle in large numbers in Nashville in 1976, which is now home to the largest Kurdish community in the United States and is nicknamed \"Little Kurdistan\". Kurdish population in Nashville is estimated to be around 11,000. Total number of ethnic Kurds residing in the United States is estimated by the US Census Bureau to be 15,400. Other sources claim that there are 20,000 ethnic Kurds in the United States.\n\nAs a whole, the Kurdish people are adherents to a large number of different religions and creeds, perhaps constituting the most religiously diverse people of West Asia. Traditionally, Kurds have been known to take great liberties with their practices. This sentiment is reflected in the saying \"Compared to the unbeliever, the Kurd is a Muslim\".\n\nToday, the majority of Kurds are Sunni Muslim, belonging to the Shafi school. The Kurdish following of the Shafi legal code has caused some tension when pushed up against Sunni Turks and Sunni Arabs who subscribe to the Hanafi legal code.\n\nThe majority of Sunni Muslim Kurds belonging to the Shafi school speak the Northern Kurdish (Kurmanji) dialect.\n\nThere is also a significant minority of Kurds who are Shia Muslims. A side of sources mention that most of Kurds in Iran are Shias, who primarily living in the Ilam, Kermanshah and Khorasan provinces of Iran; the other Shia Kurds are (often) in eastern Iraq (Feyli Kurds) as well as Shia Kurds who are in Syria and especially in Turkey. Amongst Shia Muslim Kurdish communities, in particular the practitioners of Alevism in Anatolia, the Zaza language is found more commonly.\n\nMystical practices and participation in Sufi orders are also widespread among Kurds, with prominent Kurdish Sufi saints including Piryones.\n\nThe Alevis (usually considered adherents of a branch of Shia Islam with elements of Sufism) are another religious significant minority among the Kurds, living in Eastern Anatolia in Turkey, meanwhile, it is estimated that 30% of Kurds in Turkey are Alevis. Alevism developed out of the teachings of Haji Bektash Veli, a 13th-century mystic from Khorasan. Among the Qizilbash, the militant groups which predate the Alevis and helped establish the Safavid Dynasty, there were numerous Kurdish tribes. The American missionary Stephen van Renssalaer Trowbridge, working at Aintab (present Gaziantep) reported that his Alevi acquaintances considered as their highest spiritual leaders an Ahl-i Haqq sayyid family in the Guran district.\n\nAhl-i Haqq or Yarsanism is a syncretic religion founded by Sultan Sahak in the late 14th century in western Iran. Most of its adherents, estimated at around 500,000 or 1,000,000, are found primarily in western Iran and eastern Iraq and are mostly ethnic Goran Kurds, though there are also smaller groups of Persian, Lori, Azeri and Arab adherents. Its central religious text is the Kalâm-e Saranjâm, written in Gurani. In this text, the religion's basic pillars are summarized as: \"The Yarsan should strive for these four qualities: purity, rectitude, self-effacement and self-abnegation\".\n\nThe Yarsan faith's unique features include millenarism, nativism, egalitarianism, metempsychosis, angelology, divine manifestation and dualism. Many of these features are found in Yazidism, another Kurdish faith, in the faith of Zoroastrians and in ghulat (non-mainstream Shia) groups; certainly, the names and religious terminology of the Yarsan are often explicitly of Muslim origin. Unlike other indigenous Persianate faiths, the Yarsan explicitly reject class, caste and rank, which sets them apart from the Yazidis and Zoroastrians.\n\nThe Ahl-i Haqq consider the Bektashi and Alevi as kindred communities.\n\nYazidism is another syncretic religion practiced among Kurdish communities, founded by Sheikh Adi ibn Musafir, a 12th-century mystic from Lebanon. Their numbers exceed 500,000, with some estimates numbering them at 1.2 million worldwide. Its central religious texts are the Kitêba Cilwe and Meshaf Resh.\n\nAccording to Yazidi beliefs, God created the world but left it in the care of seven holy beings or angels. The most prominent angel is Melek Taus (Kurdish: \"Tawûsê Melek\"), the Peacock Angel, God's representative on earth. Yazidis believe in the periodic reincarnation of the seven holy beings in human form. Yazidis who marry non-Yazidis are automatically considered to be converted to the religion of their spouse and therefore are not permitted to call themselves Yazidis.\n\nThey live primarily in the Nineveh Province of Iraq. Their holiest shrine and the tomb of the faith's founder is located in Lalish, in northern Iraq.\n\nThe Persian religion of Zoroastrianism had a major influence on the early Kurdish culture and has maintained some effect since the demise of the religion in the Middle Ages. The Iranian philosopher Sohrevardi drew heavily from Zoroastrian teachings. Ascribed to the teachings of the prophet Zoroaster, the faith's Supreme Being is Ahura Mazda. Leading characteristics, such as messianism, the Golden Rule, heaven and hell, and free will influenced other religious systems, including Second Temple Judaism, Gnosticism, Christianity, and Islam.\n\nIn 2016, the first official Zoroastrian fire temple of Iraqi Kurdistan opened in Sulaymaniyah. Attendees celebrated the occasion by lighting a ritual fire and beating the frame drum or 'daf'. Awat Tayib, the chief of followers of Zoroastrianism in the Kurdistan region, claimed that many were returning to Zoroastrianism but some kept it secret out of fear of reprisals from Islamists.\n\nAlthough historically there have been various accounts of Kurdish Christians, most often these were in the form of individuals, and not as communities. However, in the 19th and 20th century various travel logs tell of Kurdish Christian tribes, as well as Kurdish Muslim tribes who had substantial Christian populations living amongst them. A significant number of these were allegedly originally Armenian or Assyrian, and it has been recorded that a small number of Christian traditions have been preserved. Several Christian prayers in Kurdish have been found from earlier centuries.\n\nSegments of the Bible were first made available in the Kurdish language in 1856 in the Kurmanji dialect. The Gospels were translated by Stepan, an Armenian employee of the American Bible Society and were published in 1857. Prominent historical Kurdish Christians include Theophobos and the brothers Zakare and Ivane Mkhargrdzeli.\n\nKurdish culture is a legacy from the various ancient peoples who shaped modern Kurds and their society. As most other Middle Eastern populations, a high degree of mutual influences between the Kurds and their neighbouring peoples are apparent. Therefore, in Kurdish culture elements of various other cultures are to be seen.\nHowever, on the whole, Kurdish culture is closest to that of other Iranian peoples, in particular those who historically had the closest geographical proximity to the Kurds, such as the Persians and Lurs. Kurds, for instance, also celebrate Newroz (March 21) as New Year's Day.\n\nA madrasa system was used before the modern era. Mele are Islamic clerics and instructors.\n\nIn general, Kurdish women's rights and equality have improved in the 20th and 21st century due to progressive movements within Kurdish society. However, despite the progress, Kurdish and international women's rights organizations still report problems related to gender equality, forced marriages, honor killings and in Iraqi Kurdistan also female genital mutilation (FGM).\n\nThe Kurds possess a rich tradition of folklore, which, until recent times, was largely transmitted by speech or song, from one generation to the next. Although some of the Kurdish writers' stories were well known throughout Kurdistan; most of the stories told and sung were only written down in the 20th and 21st century. Many of these are, allegedly, centuries old.\n\nWidely varying in purpose and style, among the Kurdish folklore one will find stories about nature, anthropomorphic animals, love, heroes and villains, mythological creatures and everyday life. A number of these mythological figures can be found in other cultures, like the Simurgh and Kaveh the Blacksmith in the broader Iranian Mythology, and stories of Shahmaran throughout Anatolia. Additionally, stories can be purely entertaining, or have an educational or religious aspect.\n\nPerhaps the most widely reoccurring element is the fox, which, through cunningness and shrewdness triumphs over less intelligent species, yet often also meets his demise. Another common theme in Kurdish folklore is the origin of a tribe.\n\nStorytellers would perform in front of an audience, sometimes consisting of an entire village. People from outside the region would travel to attend their narratives, and the storytellers themselves would visit other villages to spread their tales. These would thrive especially during winter, where entertainment was hard to find as evenings had to be spent inside.\n\nCoinciding with the heterogeneous Kurdish groupings, although certain stories and elements were commonly found throughout Kurdistan, others were unique to a specific area; depending on the region, religion or dialect. The Kurdish Jews of Zakho are perhaps the best example of this; whose gifted storytellers are known to have been greatly respected throughout the region, thanks to a unique oral tradition. Other examples are the mythology of the Yezidis, and the stories of the Dersim Kurds, which had a substantial Armenian influence.\n\nDuring the criminalization of the Kurdish language after the coup d'état of 1980, dengbêj (singers) and çîrokbêj (tellers) were silenced, and many of the stories had become endangered. In 1991, the language was decriminalized, yet the now highly available radios and TV's had as an effect a diminished interest in traditional storytelling. However, a number of writers have made great strides in the preservation of these tales.\n\nKurdish weaving is renowned throughout the world, with fine specimens of both rugs and bags. The most famous Kurdish rugs are those from the Bijar region, in the Kurdistan Province. Because of the unique way in which the Bijar rugs are woven, they are very stout and durable, hence their appellation as the 'Iron Rugs of Persia'. Exhibiting a wide variety, the Bijar rugs have patterns ranging from floral designs, medallions and animals to other ornaments. They generally have two wefts, and are very colorful in design. With an increased interest in these rugs in the last century, and a lesser need for them to be as sturdy as they were, new Bijar rugs are more refined and delicate in design.\n\nAnother well-known Kurdish rug is the Senneh rug, which is regarded as the most sophisticated of the Kurdish rugs. They are especially known for their great knot density and high quality mountain wool. They lend their name from the region of Sanandaj. Throughout other Kurdish regions like Kermanshah, Siirt, Malatya and Bitlis rugs were also woven to great extent.\n\nKurdish bags are mainly known from the works of one large tribe: the Jaffs, living in the border area between Iran and Iraq. These Jaff bags share the same characteristics of Kurdish rugs; very colorful, stout in design, often with medallion patterns. They were especially popular in the West during the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nOutside of weaving and clothing, there are many other Kurdish handicrafts, which were traditionally often crafted by nomadic Kurdish tribes. These are especially well known in Iran, most notably the crafts from the Kermanshah and Sanandaj regions. Among these crafts are chess boards, talismans, jewelry, ornaments, weaponry, instruments etc.\n\nKurdish blades include a distinct jambiya, with its characteristic I-shaped hilt, and oblong blade. Generally, these possess double-edged blades, reinforced with a central ridge, a wooden, leather or silver decorated scabbard, and a horn hilt, furthermore they are often still worn decoratively by older men. Swords were made as well. Most of these blades in circulation stem from the 19th century.\n\nAnother distinct form of art from Sanandaj is 'Oroosi', a type of window where stylized wooden pieces are locked into each other, rather than being glued together. These are further decorated with coloured glass, this stems from an old belief that if light passes through a combination of seven colours it helps keep the atmosphere clean.\n\nAmong Kurdish Jews a common practice was the making of talismans, which were believed to combat illnesses and protect the wearer from malevolent spirits.\n\nAdorning the body with tattoos (\"deq\" in Kurdish) is widespread among the Kurds; even though permanent tattoos are not permissible in Sunni Islam. Therefore, these traditional tattoos are thought to derive from pre-Islamic times.\n\nTattoo ink is made by mixing soot with (breast) milk and the poisonous liquid from the gall bladder of an animal. The design is drawn on the skin using a thin twig and is, by needle, penetrated under the skin. These have a wide variety of meanings and purposes, among which are protection against evil or illnesses; beauty enhancement; and the showing of tribal affiliations. Religious symbolism is also common among both traditional and modern Kurdish tattoos. Tattoos are more prevalent among women than among men, and were generally worn on feet, the chin, foreheads and other places of the body.\n\nThe popularity of permanent, traditional tattoos has greatly diminished among newer generation of Kurds. However, modern tattoos are becoming more prevalent; and temporary tattoos are still being worn on special occasions (such as henna, the night before a wedding) and as tribute to the cultural heritage.\n\nTraditionally, there are three types of Kurdish classical performers: storytellers (\"çîrokbêj\"), minstrels (\"stranbêj\"), and bards (\"dengbêj\"). No specific music was associated with the Kurdish princely courts. Instead, music performed in night gatherings (\"şevbihêrk\") is considered classical. Several musical forms are found in this genre. Many songs are epic in nature, such as the popular \"Lawiks\", heroic ballads recounting the tales of Kurdish heroes such as Saladin. \"Heyrans\" are love ballads usually expressing the melancholy of separation and unfulfilled love, one of the first Kurdish female singers to sing heyrans is Chopy Fatah, while \"Lawje\" is a form of religious music and \"Payizoks\" are songs performed during the autumn. Love songs, dance music, wedding and other celebratory songs (\"dîlok/narînk\"), erotic poetry, and work songs are also popular.\n\nThroughout the Middle East, there are many prominent Kurdish artists. Most famous are Ibrahim Tatlises, Nizamettin Arıç, Ahmet Kaya and the Kamkars. In Europe, well-known artists are Darin Zanyar, Sivan Perwer, and Azad.\n\nThe main themes of Kurdish Cinema are the poverty and hardship which ordinary Kurds have to endure. The first films featuring Kurdish culture were actually shot in Armenia. Zare, released in 1927, produced by Hamo Beknazarian, details the story of Zare and her love for the shepherd Seydo, and the difficulties the two experience by the hand of the village elder.\nIn 1948 and 1959, two documentaries were made concerning the Yezidi Kurds in Armenia. These were joint Armenian-Kurdish productions; with H. Koçaryan and Heciye Cindi teaming up for \"The Kurds of Soviet Armenia\", and Ereb Samilov and C. Jamharyan for \"Kurds of Armenia\".\n\nThe first critically acclaimed and famous Kurdish films were produced by Yılmaz Güney. Initially a popular, award-winning actor in Turkey with the nickname \"Çirkin Kral\" (\"the Ugly King\", after his rough looks), he spent the later part of his career producing socio-critical and politically loaded films. Sürü (1979), Yol (1982) and Duvar (1983) are his best-known works, of which the second won Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival of 1982, the most prestigious award in the world of cinema.\n\nAnother prominent Kurdish film director is Bahman Qubadi. His first feature film was A Time for Drunken Horses, released in 2000. It was critically acclaimed, and went on to win multiple awards. Other movies of his would follow this example; making him one of the best known film producers of Iran of today. Recently, he released Rhinos Season, starring Behrouz Vossoughi, Monica Bellucci and Yilmaz Erdogan, detailing the tumultuous life of a Kurdish poet.\n\nOther prominent Kurdish film directors that are critically acclaimed include Mahsun Kırmızıgül, Hiner Saleem and the aforementioned Yilmaz Erdogan. There's also been a number of films set and/or filmed in Kurdistan made by non-Kurdish film directors, such as the Wind Will Carry Us, Triage, The Exorcist, and .\n\nThe most popular sport among the Kurds is football. Because the Kurds have no independent state, they have no representative team in FIFA or the AFC; however a team representing Iraqi Kurdistan has been active in the Viva World Cup since 2008. They became runners-up in 2009 and 2010, before ultimately becoming champion in 2012.\n\nOn a national level, the Kurdish clubs of Iraq have achieved success in recent years as well, winning the Iraqi Premier League four times in the last five years. Prominent clubs are Erbil SC, Duhok SC, Sulaymaniyah FC and Zakho FC.\n\nIn Turkey, a Kurd named Celal Ibrahim was one of the founders of Galatasaray S.K. in 1905, as well as one of the original players. The most prominent Kurdish-Turkish club is Diyarbakirspor. In the diaspora, the most successful Kurdish club is Dalkurd FF and the most famous player is Eren Derdiyok.\n\nAnother prominent sport is wrestling. In Iranian Wrestling, there are three styles originating from Kurdish regions: \nFurthermore, the most accredited of the traditional Iranian wrestling styles, the Bachoukheh, derives its name from a local Khorasani Kurdish costume in which it is practised.\n\nKurdish medalists in the 2012 Summer Olympics were Nur Tatar, Kianoush Rostami and Yezidi Misha Aloyan; who won medals in taekwondo, weightlifting and boxing, respectively.\n\nThe traditional Kurdish village has simple houses, made of mud. In most cases with flat, wooden roofs, and, if the village is built on the slope of a mountain, the roof on one house makes for the garden of the house one level higher. However, houses with a beehive-like roof, not unlike those in Harran, are also present.\n\nOver the centuries many Kurdish architectural marvels have been erected, with varying styles. Kurdistan boasts many examples from ancient Iranic, Roman, Greek and Semitic origin, most famous of these include Bisotun and Taq-e Bostan in Kermanshah, Takht-e Soleyman near Takab, Mount Nemrud near Adiyaman and the citadels of Erbil and Diyarbakir.\n\nThe first genuinely Kurdish examples extant were built in the 11th century. Those earliest examples consist of the Marwanid Dicle Bridge in Diyarbakir, the Shadaddid Minuchir Mosque in Ani, and the Hisn al Akrad near Homs.\n\nIn the 12th and 13th centuries the Ayyubid dynasty constructed many buildings throughout the Middle East, being influenced by their predecessors, the Fatimids, and their rivals, the Crusaders, whilst also developing their own techniques. Furthermore, women of the Ayyubid family took a prominent role in the patronage of new constructions. The Ayyubids' most famous works are the Halil-ur-Rahman Mosque that surrounds the Pool of Sacred Fish in Urfa, the Citadel of Cairo and most parts of the Citadel of Aleppo. Another important piece of Kurdish architectural heritage from the late 12th/early 13th century is the Yezidi pilgrimage site Lalish, with its trademark conical roofs.\n\nIn later periods too, Kurdish rulers and their corresponding dynasties and emirates would leave their mark upon the land in the form mosques, castles and bridges, some of which have decayed, or have been (partly) destroyed in an attempt to erase the Kurdish cultural heritage, such as the White Castle of the Bohtan Emirate. Well-known examples are Hosap Castle of the 17th century, Sherwana Castle of the early 18th century, and the Ellwen Bridge of Khanaqin of the 19th century.\n\nMost famous is the Ishak Pasha Palace of Dogubeyazit, a structure with heavy influences from both Anatolian and Iranic architectural traditions. Construction of the Palace began in 1685, led by Colak Abdi Pasha, a Kurdish bey of the Ottoman Empire, but the building wouldn't be completed until 1784, by his grandson, Ishak Pasha. Containing almost 100 rooms, including a mosque, dining rooms, dungeons and being heavily decorated by hewn-out ornaments, this Palace has the reputation as being one of the finest pieces of architecture of the Ottoman Period, and of Anatolia.\n\nIn recent years, the KRG has been responsible for the renovation of several historical structures, such as Erbil Citadel and the Mudhafaria Minaret.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48033346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48033346", "title": "La gitanilla (1940 film)", "text": "La gitanilla (1940 film)\n\nLa gitanilla (\"the little Gypsy girl\") is a 1940 Spanish drama film directed by Fernando Delgado. It is based on the short story \"La gitanilla\", from the collection \"Novelas ejemplares\" by Miguel de Cervantes. It was the third film adaptation of the story.\n\n\nThe film was received negatively by Spanish film critics, who thought it failed on a technical level. It received the award for Best Screenplay from the National Syndicate of Spectacle.\n"}
{"id": "57004286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57004286", "title": "List of diseases by year of discovery", "text": "List of diseases by year of discovery\n\nThe following is a list of pathologies organized by year of discovery.\n\n"}
{"id": "49866491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49866491", "title": "List of largest towns in England without a railway station", "text": "List of largest towns in England without a railway station\n\nThis is a list of towns in England that are not served by any sort of rail services. This includes National Rail, Tram and metro services such as the Manchester Metrolink or the Tyne and Wear Metro.\n\nOther towns that are not served by railway stations but are smaller include Kingswinford in the West Midlands (pop. 25,191), Daventry in Northamptonshire (pop. 25,026), and Portishead in Somerset (pop. 23,699). Portishead railway station is planned, with possible opening in 2019.\n"}
{"id": "1269044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1269044", "title": "Malay Singaporeans", "text": "Malay Singaporeans\n\nMalay Singaporeans or Singaporean Malays (; Jawi: ), are defined by the Government of Singapore and by intellectuals in the country using the broader concept of the Malay race, including ethnic Malays and related ethnic groups. Although the Malays are indigenous to the area that is now Singapore, and with established political rule recorded as early as the 13th century AD, most Malays in Singapore today include roots from both Malaysia and Indonesia. Prior to the arrival of Raffles, there were many of the indigenous Malays living on the island under the Johor Sultanate. Most of the indigenous Malays came from the Malay Archipelago. As of 2015, Malay Singaporeans constitute 15% of the country's citizens, making them the second largest ethnic group in Singapore.\n\nFrom the 19th century until World War II, the Malays enjoyed favourable treatment and disproportionate employment to colonial governmental posts; this was concurrent with a sharp increase in the Malay population due to immigration to Singapore from the Malay Peninsula, Java, Sumatra and Sulawesi. Though coming from various background from the Malay world, nonetheless many are tied together by a similar culture, language and religion.\n\nThe seventeenth-century Malay chronicle, the Sejarah Melayu or Malay Annals, tells of the founding of a great trading city on the island of Temasek in 1299 AD by a prince from Palembang. Palembang was then the capital of the diminishing Srivijayan Empire. The prince, Sri Tri Buana, (also known as Sang Nila Utama) was said to be a descendant of Alexander the Great and an Indian princess called Shahru Al-Bariyah. Legend states that he renamed the city Singapura (\"lion city\") after sighting a strange beast that he took to be a lion, although there is no real historical evidence of this.\n\nIn the mid-14th century, \nSingapura suffered raids by the expanding Javanese Majapahit Empire to the south and the emerging Thai kingdom of Ayutthaya to the north, both claiming the island as a vassal state at several points in time. \nAround 1388, the ruler of Palembang, Parameswara, came to Singapore to flee from Majapahit control. He murdered the king and seized power, but it was a futile act. The Srivijayan Empire, already in decline, finally met its end when Majapahit attacked its capital Palembang in 1391. In 1396, Majapahit or Ayutthaya forces drove out Parameswara, who fled northward and founded kingdom of Malacca in 1400.\n\nWhen the Portuguese captured Malacca in 1511, the last Malaccan sultan, Mahmud Shah, fled to Johore, where he established the new Johore Sultanate. Singapura became part of this sultanate. In 1613, however, the Portuguese reported burning down a trading outpost at the mouth of the Temasek (Singapore) River, and Singapura passed into history.\n\nThe territory controlled by the\nJohore Riau Lingga Pahang sultanate in the late eighteenth century still included Singapore as part of its territory. The sultanate had become increasingly weakened by a division into a Malay faction, which controlled the peninsula and Singapore, and a Bugis faction which controlled the Riau Archipelago and Sumatra. When Sultan Mahmud Riayat Shah III died in 1812, the Bugis had proclaimed the younger of his two sons, Abdul Rahman, as sultan instead of the elder son, Tengku Long. \nWhile the sultan was the nominal ruler of his domain, senior officials actually governed the sultanate. In control of Singapore and the neighbouring islands was Temenggong Abdul Rahman, Tengku Long's father-in-law. In 1818, he and some of his followers left Riau for Singapore shortly after the Dutch signed a treaty with the Sultan Abdul Rahman, allowing the Dutch to station a garrison at Riau.\n\nIn 1819, Tengku Long signed a treaty with the British led by Sir Stamford Raffles. In exchange for British protection and recognising him as Sultan of Johore, Tengku Long agreed to allow the British to establish a trading post in Singapore. Proclaimed as Sultan Hussein Shah, he became the Sultan of Johore.\n\nIn 1835, Sultan Hussein Shah died and was succeeded by his eldest son, Tengku Ali. Sultan Hussein had signed away his rights over the island in exchange for the land at Kampong Gelam plus an annual stipend for his family. After the Sultan's death, disputes broke out among his descendants. In the late 1890s, they went to court, where it was decided that no one in the family had the rights as the successor to the sultanate and the land at Kampong Gelam should revert to the state [Tengku Mahmud vs. Tengku Ali, Straits Settlements Laws Report 1897 (Vol. 5)]. This ended the reign of the Malay kings in Singapore.\n\n\n\nWhen Raffles arrived in Singapore, there were already thousands of indigenous Malays living there. The waters of Telok Blangah, the Kallang River and other rivers had been home to the Orang Laut or \"Sea Nomads\" for a very long time. Here were also Malay settlements along the Kallang River Basin and the Singapore River. Turnbull reported that there was an estimated 1,000 people living in Singapore. There were about 500 Orang Kallang, 200 Orang Seletar, 150 Orang Gelam, 100 Orang Lauts, 20–30 Malays who were the followers of Temenggong Abdul Rahman and about 20–30 Chinese.\n\nIn the first census taken in 1824, it was revealed that the Malays (including the Bugis) then made up 60.9 per cent of the total population of 10,683. Further census figures of Singapore in the following few years showed rapid increase in population, particularly Chinese migrants with a disproportionate number of men. The 1826 census shows 4,790 Malays, 1,242 Bugis, and 267 Javanese out of a total population 13,750.\n\nMost Singaporean Malays are descended from different ethnic groups that are found throughout the Malay Archipelago. Most notable are the Orang Laut(the original inhabitants of Singapore), Riau Malays, Javanese, Boyanese, Bugis, Minangkabaus, Banjarese and the Bataks\nAlso known as Orang Pulau/Orang Singapura\n\nAccording to Sopher (1977), the Orang Kallang, Orang Seletar, Orang Selat and Orang Gelam were the Orang Laut that lived in Singapore. The Orang Kallang (also called the Orang Biduanda Kallang) lived in the swampy areas in the Kallang River. They lived on boats and sustained their lives by fishing and collecting other materials from the forests. After 1819, they were relocated by Temenggong Abdul Rahman to the northern Singapore Straits at Sungai Pulau. In 1847 most of the Orang Kallang were wiped out by a smallpox epidemic.\n\nThe Orang Seletar lived in the river swamps and the small islands surrounding mainland Singapore. They would often gather on the coastal areas, especially on the estuary of the Seletar River. They lived a nomadic lifestyle until the 1850s, when they started living on land and followed the lifestyles of others living in Singapore.\n\nThe Orang Selat lived in the harbour waters of Keppel Singapore. They were believed to have traversed the waters of Keppel Harbour since the early 16th century, making them one of the earliest settlers of the island. They sold fish and fruits to the trading vessels that passed the area.\n\nThe Orang Gelam came from a tribe in Batam Island. They were brought by the Temenggong of Johor together with a group of his followers to establish a settlement in the first decade of the 19th century. Many of the Orang Gelam who lived along the Singapore River served as boatmen for merchant ships while their womenfolk were fruit sellers on boats.\n\nThe Orang Laut differed from the Malays in that they lived a nomadic lifestyle and lived at sea in their boats whereas the Malays lived in settlements in the villages on the land.\n\nWhen Raffles came to Singapore, there were already hundreds of indigenous Malays and orang laut living there. They were made up of the nobility that were headed by the Temenggong, the palace officials and his followers as well as the Orang Laut. Subsequently, the numbers increased with the arrivals of other Malays from Malaya and the Malay Archipelago.\n\nIn a matter of several months, hundreds of Malays from Malacca came to Singapore, encouraged by the British who wanted to develop Singapore as a centre for trade and administration (Siebel, 1961:27). When Singapore became more developed and there were better economic opportunities, many Malays from Johore, Riau, Sumatra, Penang and Malacca came to Singapore (Roff, 1967:33; Census 1931:72). Many of these Malays lived in the towns and worked there (Siebel, 1961:35). The census for 1931 showed that the total number of Malay men working here were as many as 11,290. Out of this number, 18% worked as fishermen and as many as 12% lived by farming the land.\n\nIn the 1930s and 1950s, many Malay residents from Malaya were working in the British uniformed services. In 1957 alone, there were more than 10,000 Malays working in the uniform services because the British preferred them to the Javanese or Malays from Indonesia (Betts, 1975:41; Djamour, 1959:5). However, during the period 1957–1970, most of them returned to Malaysia when their terms of services ended.\n\nThe second largest Malay group were the Javanese. They came from Java in the Dutch East Indies (modern Indonesia). In the 1931 Population Census, the number of Javanese in Singapore was 16,063. The 1981 Population Census, however, showed that they made up 6% of the Malay population. However, many Javanese had actually registered themselves as 'Malay'. It is likely that the actual percentage of the Javanese within the Malay population was much higher. An ethnographic study in 1990 estimated that approximately 50–60% of Singaporean Malays have at least some degree of Javanese ancestry. The Javanese came to Singapore in stages. In the mid-19th century, they came and worked as ironsmiths, leather makers as well as spice merchants and religious books dealers. There were also a group of Javanese printers and publishers in the Arab Street area. There were also community of pilgrim brokers that played an important role in encouraging the migration of the Javanese to Singapore.\nThe political situation in the Dutch East Indies created by the Dutch government caused many Javanese to go through Singapore to travel to Mecca to perform the hajj. From the mid-19th century until 1910, between 2,000 and 7,000 Javanese travelled to Mecca through Singapore until the regulations were eased (Roff 1967:39). Usually, these pilgrims would work in Singapore for several months or years before or after performing the hajj to earn money or pay their debts to their pilgrim brokers. Many of them stayed on in Singapore and became part of the Muslim community in the city (Roff, 1967:43).\n\nA number of Javanese also came to Singapore with the help of the pilgrim brokers. They came voluntarily and a majority of them were young men who stayed in the lodgings of the pilgrim brokers until they found work. They worked as food sellers, gardeners and provided labour for the pilgrim brokers to build lodging homes for them. The pilgrim brokers also took in bonded labourers who worked for Malay or Javanese employers to clear forests to set up settlements in Johore, Malaya (Roff, 1967:37). The activities with these bonded labourers continued until the 1920s. From 1886 till 1890, as many as 21,000 Javanese became bonded labourers with the Singapore Chinese Protectorate, an organisation formed by the British in 1877 to monitor the Chinese population. They performed manual labour in the rubber plantations. After their bond ended, they continued to open up the land and stayed on in Johore.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the total number of Javanese coming to Singapore continued to increase. The first wave consisted of conscript labour that were brought by the Japanese and their numbers were estimated to be about 10,000 (Turnbull, 1976:216). The second wave were those who moved to Singapore through Malaya. The 1970 Population Census showed that a total of 21,324 Malays who were born in Malaya (later Malaysia) had moved to Singapore in the years 1946–1955; and as many as 29,679 moved to Singapore from 1956–1970 (Census 1970:262-3). Interviews conducted showed that a majority of them were young men of Javanese descent from Johore who wanted to find a better life in Singapore. Most of them were not educated and not highly skilled and worked as manual labourers in the post war years.\n\nIn the 2010 census, Malays of Javanese descent numbered 89,000.\n\nThe Baweanese or Boyanese came from the Bawean Island in the Dutch East Indies. They built the Kampung Boyan (Boyanese Village) by the banks of the Rochor River, between Jalan Besar and Syed Alwi Road since the time of Munshi Abdullah. Most of them came to Singapore in the late 19th century until the end of Second World War. The majority of them worked as horse cart drivers and later as motorcar drivers. They could not be considered poor as their lands in Bawean were fertile; they had come in search of cash earnings. They wanted to purchase jewellery made of gold and goods that they could bring back to their villages. Some also wanted to build a better life for themselves in Singapore.\n\nMost of them were young men who came and supported themselves, living in communal houses. There were several such houses built in Singapore. They were found in places like Adam Communal House in Ann Siang Hill, Teluk Dalam Communal House in Dixon Road and Dedawang Communal House in Sophie Road. There was also a village within the town area that was inhabited by the Baweanese called Kampung Kapur (literally 'Lime Village') in the western part of Kampung Boyan (Boyan Village). A mosque called the Masjid Bawean Kampung Kapur (Bawean Mosque of Lime Village) located at Weld Road was built in 1932. There was also a communal house that became the gathering point for writers and their friends from the literary group called Jejak Kembara (literally 'Wanderers' Steps') in the late 1970s.\n\nDue to the fact that they shared the same religion and were closely related racially, both the Baweanese and the Javanese were able to mix freely and even intermarried with the Malays. In time, this caused the differences between them to be less obvious and more Baweanese and Javanese began identifying themselves as Malays.\n\nThe Bugis came from Sulawesi Island in Indonesia. They were well known for a long time as maritime traders. In the mid-seventeenth century, the Bugis were spreading out from Celebes to set up trading centres throughout the region. Often they had to sail to distant lands and fight indigenous tribes. They rarely lost and acquired a reputation as fierce warriors.\n\nThe Dutch control of the Dutch East Indies and their blockades cut off the Bugis from their traditional spice trade routes from Celebes to Java. This forced them to migrate to other areas to continue trading. Their migration to what is today Malaysia and Riau Archipelago began around the 18th century or even earlier. Their influence in Riau was strong. Among the Bugis traders were also members of the nobility like Engku Karaeng Talibak who married the daughter of Raja Ali Haji. According to Raja Ali Haji in his work, \"Tuhfat al-Nafis\", the presence of Karaeng Talibak brought more Bugis traders to Riau. \n\nIn 1819, conflicts between the Dutch and Bugis result in a number of Bugis leaving Riau, and soon after Raffles arrival to Singapore, a group of 500 Bugis led by Chieftain Arong Bilawa fled to Singapore. By the time of the first census in 1824, there were 1,951 Bugis recorded in Singapore, over 18% of the island’s population of 10,683. The establishment of a free port in Singapore allowed the Bugis to expand their network in the archipelago. Sailing from Sumatra to north Australia, the Bugis ships brought cargoes of cotton cloth, gold dust, birds-of-paradise feathers, pepper, trepang (sea slugs), sandalwood, tortoiseshell, coffee, and rice to Singapore. Most of these goods were very much in demand by the Chinese merchants in Singapore. The Bugis also traded in slaves.\n\nJames Cameron gave a description in 1865 of the various ships that would visit Singapore's harbour. According to him, each year during October and November, the Bugis ships would come from Bali and the Celebes.\n\nBy the 1830s, the Bugis had established themselves in Singapore and formed the majority of the pioneer communities in the Kampung Gelam area. By 1831, the Census of Population reported over 2,000 Bugis in Singapore. The Bugis gradually formed kampongs and settlements in places like Kampung Bugis (around the Kallang River), Kampung Soopoo, Jalan Pelatok and Jalan Pergam. The number of Bugis however would decline as they lost their dominance in the sea trade, and by 1860, there were only about 900 Bugis left in Singapore. Many of them also became assimilated into the larger Malay community. Many Bugis pioneers and historical figures are buried in Jalan Kubor Cemetery.\n\nThe Minangkabau people came from Western Sumatra. The Minangkabaus are known for their matrilineal social system and their tradition for travelling. The Minangkabaus would leave their homes and travel in search of work, knowledge and experience. They would usually return home once they had fulfilled their objective. This tradition of travelling was a rite of passage for the young Minangkabau men and was considered a way for them to be in touch with the outside world.\n\nThe Minangkabaus have been migrating to Malaysia and Singapore since long ago. This only stopped when Malaya achieved independence from the British in 1957, when the immigration laws were tightened. The majority of Minangkabaus who came to Singapore came from Pariaman and Agam in Western Sumatra. The majority of them were engaged in business, especially in selling padang food. The Minangkabaus also sold religious items, toys and clothes. They had shops in Arab Street and Geylang. They also worked as taxi drivers and gardeners and joined uniformed services. Many Minangkabaus also worked as sailors on ships owned by trading companies. The Minangkabaus even formed an association at one time but this was subsequently banned during the 1962–66 Indonesia-Malaysia confrontation.\n\nAfter Singapore became an independent state in 1965, the majority of Minangkabaus either migrated to Malaysia or returned to Sumatra. Those who stayed in Singapore assimilated into the Malay community. Not many Minangkabaus brought their wives or women with them to Singapore. As such, many married the local Malay women and did not maintain strong ties with the other Minangkabau communities. By 1973, it was estimated that there were 200 Minangkabaus family in Singapore and almost all of them were Singapore citizens.\n\nThe Banjar people originated from the southern and eastern coast of Kalimantan in Borneo. Most came from Banjarmasin in the area surrounding the Barito basin. These areas were used for the cultivation of paddy. The Banjarese who migrated to the Malay Peninsula were farmers who were experienced in paddy cultivation. They also migrated to spread Islam to the region, to escape poverty and the oppressive Dutch rule of their homeland. Some also wanted to escape the presence of wild animals that threatened their farms in Kalimantan.\n\nThe Banjarese generally did not like to be employees. They preferred to be self-employed, working as either farmers or businessmen. The Banjar were also well known as jewel cutters and dealers in the region. Many came to Singapore to deal in the jewellery trade and had their shops in Arab Street. They even formed a Kalimantan Association in Singapore.\n\nThe Banjarese made up a very small percentage of the Malay population in Singapore. In 1931, they numbered 445 out of a total Malay population of 65,104 (0.7%). In 1947, they formed only 0.3% of the population. This dropped to 0.2% in 1957 and 0.1% in 1970. By 1980 and 1990, the total numbers could not be determined, probably because the Banjarese have effectively assimilated into the Malay community.\n\nThe Batak people are the smallest Malay group in Singapore. Up till 1978, there were less than 350 Bataks in Singapore. Unlike other Malay groups that are predominantly Muslim, there are many Christians in the Batak community (Seventh-day Adventists, Lutherans, Jehovah's Witnesses).\n\nThe Batak had been coming to Singapore before the 20th century. Not much is known about the Bataks that came to Singapore in the 19th century and before World War 2. Most were young men in their twenties who were from the Toba, Mandailing and Angkola people.\nThe Bataks came to Singapore for economic, educational and social reasons. Most of those who came to Singapore before the War had received their primary education in the Batak and Malay language. Some came to Singapore to continue their education in the private and Christian schools. For example, the Seventh-day Adventist organisation had students' amenities in Singapore in 1915 and they encouraged the Bataks from Sipirok, Angkola and Pematang Siantar in Sumatra to send their children to continue their studies in Singapore. An English education was prized as it was seen as a passport to getting a white-collar job in the plantations in Eastern Sumatra that were owned by the Dutch and the Americans. After receiving their education in Singapore, the Bataks would return to their homeland. Some would marry and bring their wives to Singapore. The Batak Christians were the first Bataks to bring their wives to Singapore.\n\nMost of the Bataks who came before World War 2 worked as gardeners, peons and manual labourers. During the Japanese Occupation, the Bataks were conscripted as foot soldiers or forced labourers by the Japanese. Some were sent to Singapore for military training. After the War, many of the Bataks returned home. At the same time, many others came to Singapore from places like Medan, Palembang and the Riau Islands. Some managed to find work as clerks, storekeepers and some started businesses with non-Bataks partners. Some also joined the British army as soldiers, technicians and electricians. Others started identifying themselves as Malays so that they could join the military or get jobs given to local Malays.\n\nIn 1947, the Bataks in Singapore formed a welfare organisation called \"Saroha\" (\"one heart\" in the Batak language). The aim of the organisation was to help the Bataks in Singapore. The organisation lasted until 1954 and was disbanded due to leadership problems and a lack of support from its members. Attempts to revive it later in 1958 proved futile.\n\nThere were Bataks who took Malay wives and converted to Islam. The majority of them and their descendants were assimilated into the Malay community and preferred to be known as Malays.\n\nThe following figures show the composition of the various Malay ethnic population in Singapore for the past 60 years. The great increase shown in the other Malay groups, especially the Javanese, in 1990 is likely due to the increase in the employment of Indonesian domestic workers in Singapore.\n\nAccording to the 2015 census, 389,000 Malays Singaporeans and permanent residents aged 15 years and above belonged to the following religious groups:\nAn overwhelming majority of Malays in Singapore are Sunni Muslims belonging to the Shāfi'ī (شافعي) school of thought.\n\nA very small Christian community also exists among the Malays, with 0.41% of Malays Singaporean. However, the government has strongly discouraged the publication of the Christian Bible in Malay, and strongly discourages missionaries from attempts to convert the local Malay populace. This was done so as not to cause racial and religious tensions in the predominantly Muslim community and because of Malay Islamic identity, which Islam is ingrained in Malay culture.\n\nThere is also a small Buddhist community, mostly consisting of Malays with mixed Chinese ancestry (0.05%) and even there are Hindu minorities among the Malays with mixed Indian (Tamil) or Chitty ancestry (0.03%).\n\nThe majority of Malays in Singapore generally share a similar culture with those in Peninsular Malaysia.\n\nLinguistically, most Malays in Singapore speak the Johore-Riau dialect of Malay that is similar to that spoken in the southern part of west Malaysian peninsular and the Riau islands of Indonesia. Some of the older generation who migrated here or whose parents were immigrants can speak Javanese. However, most of the Malays here do not speak the language of their ancestors from Indonesia.\n\nMany Malays attend special religious schools known as Madrasahs, where students are instructed in Islamic theology alongside the national curriculum, however many Malays are educated in other secular institutions and attendance is not compulsory.\n\nEnglish is also widely spoken. Arabic is more common among the Muslim religious teachers, and is the preferred language learned by the more religious Malay Muslims.\n\nAlthough many Malays in Singapore are generally of mixed descent, they are still recognised and considered as the indigenous people of Singapore by the Singapore Constitution, Part XIII, General Provisions, Minorities and special position of Malays, section 152:\n\nThe Government shall exercise its functions in such manner as to recognise the special position of the Malays, who are the indigenous people of Singapore, and accordingly it shall be the responsibility of the Government to protect, safeguard, support, foster and promote their political, educational, religious, economic, social and cultural interests and the Malay language.\n\nFor Malays in Singapore, the last name is patronymic, not a family name. The person should be referred to by his or her first or second name which is the given name. The Malay word bin (b.) or binte (bte.), if used, means \"son of\" or \"daughter of\" respectively.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15752183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15752183", "title": "McRefugee", "text": "McRefugee\n\nMcRefugees is a neologism and McWord referring to those who stay overnight in a 24-hour McDonald's fast food restaurant.\n\nThe term was first created in Japanese language: マック難民 (\"makku nanmin\"). That term had been largely replaced by ネットカフェ難民 (\"nettokafe nanmin\"), literally \"net cafe refugee\". In Japan, most McDonald's restaurants are operated around the clock. Due to unemployment and high rents and transportation costs in Japan, McRefugees choose to stay at a McDonald's overnight.\n\nThe phenomenon and word spread to Hong Kong as 麥難民 (\"mahk naahn màhn\"), where some McRefugees play video games and are known as McGamers. McDonald's opened 24-hour branches in mainland China in September 2006, which quickly attracted McRefugees.\n\nIn early October 2015, the death of a woman in a 24-hour Hong Kong McDonald’s restaurant in Kowloon Bay brought attention to the problem of McRefugees. McRefugees can be found in other 24-hour branches as well. Among the more than 1,600 homeless people in Hong Kong in 2015, about 250 were McRefugees.\n\nIn 2018, A study conducted by the Society for Community Organization found that there were 384 McRefugees in Hong Kong. In August of the same year, a movie concerning about this topic started to film in Hong Kong, with the title \"\", mimicing the slogan of the restaurant \"I'm loving it\".\n\n"}
{"id": "768688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=768688", "title": "Michel Fourniret", "text": "Michel Fourniret\n\nMichel Paul Fourniret (born 4 April 1942), also known as the Ogre of the Ardennes, is a French serial killer who confessed to killing eleven people in France and Belgium between 1987 and 2001. After he was arrested in June 2003 for the attempted kidnapping of a girl in Ciney, Fourniret confessed to killing nine people—eight females and one male—in 2004, having been informed on by his then-wife, Monique Pierrette Olivier (born 31 October 1948). Fourniret was convicted of seven of these murders on 28 May 2008 and sentenced to life imprisonment without possibility of parole, while Olivier was given life with a minimum term of 28 years for complicity.\n\nIn February 2018, Fourniret confessed to killing two more women. On 16 November 2018, Fourniret and Olivier were convicted of the murder of Farida Hammiche, the last of the eight females that Fourniret confessed to killing in 2004. Fourniret was given a second life sentence and Olivier was sentenced to a further twenty years' imprisonment.\n\nFourniret has been imprisoned numerous times since the age of 24. While in prison he met his future (third) wife Monique Olivier. They married on 28 July 1989. Olivier was aware of Fourniret's activities and became his accomplice. They divorced in prison on 2 July 2010.\n\nFourniret was arrested at his home in Sart-Custinne, Belgium, on 26 June 2003 after a failed attempt to kidnap a 13-year-old girl. He and Olivier were interrogated extensively but to no avail. A year later, Olivier told the police that her husband had killed a number of people since 1987. Fourniret confessed to killing eight females—aged between 12 and 30—and a man who has never been identified. The bodies of four of the identified victims had been discovered in France and Belgium between 1988 and 2002. Olivier was arrested and she and Fourniret and Olivier were extradited to France, where they helped police to find the bodies of three of the four missing victims over the next two years. The trial took place in Charleville-Mézières between 27 March and 28 May 2008. Fourniret was found guilty of the murders of all seven of the victims whose bodies had been found. He was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Olivier was sentenced to life with no possibility of parole for 28 years for complicity. Fourniret and Olivier were also ordered to pay 1.5 million euros in moral compensation to family members of the victims. Neither appealed their sentences.\n\nIn February 2018, Fourniret confessed to killing two more women. On 16 November 2018, Fourniret and Olivier were convicted of the murder of Farida Hammiche, the last of the eight females that Fourniret had confessed to killing in 2004. Fourniret was given a second life sentence and Olivier was sentenced to a further twenty years' imprisonment.\n\nFourniret admitted to eight murders prior to his trial in 2008. He was convicted of seven of these and sentenced to life in prison.\n\nOn 11 December 1987, Fourniret and Olivier drove, in separate vehicles, to Auxerre. Seeing 17-year-old Isabelle Laville – whom the couple had seen a day or two earlier and were targeting – walking home from school, Olivier stopped to ask her to join her in the car and give her directions, which Laville agreed to do. Driving down the road, Olivier reached the spot where Fourniret was standing with his car, pretending it had broken down. After she, as planned, pretended to offer him a lift, he got into her car. Fourniret choked Laville with a piece of rope, before Olivier sedated her with Rohypnol. The couple brought the girl to their home in Saint-Cyr-les-Colons, where Fourniret raped and strangled her. Laville's body was thrown down a disused well in Bussy-en-Othe. Her remains were recovered from the well on 11 July 2006.\n\nIn March 1988, Fourniret was contacted by 30-year-old Farida Hammiche, the wife of Jean-Pierre Hellegouarch, an imprisoned bank robber with whom he had shared a cell prior to his release in October 1987, and asked to help unearth a loot from a cemetery in Fontenay-en-Parisis, which had been stolen by members of the \"Gang des postiches\". After they managed to retrieve the loot, which consisted of gold ingots and coins, Hammiche gave Fourniret a share worth 500,000 francs for helping her dig it up and hiding it in her apartment in Vitry-sur-Seine. A few weeks later, on 12 April, aiming to steal the rest of the loot, Fourniret and Olivier lured Hammiche out of her home and drove her to Clairefontaine-en-Yvelines, where she was strangled and her body buried, before the couple broke into her home and stole the loot. They used the money they made from it to buy a château called the Château du Sautou in Donchery. Hamiche's body was never found. By August, Olivier was heavily pregnant with Fourniret's baby. On 3 August, the couple drove to a supermarket in Châlons-sur-Marne (now Châlons-en-Champagne), and encountered 20-year-old Fabienne Leroy in the car park. With Olivier feigning illness, the couple asked Leroy to join them in their car and give them directions to a doctor's surgery. After she got in, they drove to a forest near the military camp of Mourmelon-le-Grand. Fourniret ordered Olivier to look at Leroy's hymen to see if it was still intact, but she refused. After raping Leroy, Fourniret shot her in the chest.\n\nIn January 1989, Fourniret met 21-year-old Jeanne-Marie Desramault on the evening train to Charleville-Mézières. The two conversed before arriving in Charleville, where Desramault was staying at a convent. She met the couple, who had assumed false identities, at the train station again on Saturday, 18 March, and they invited her to come to their house in Floing – an offer she accepted – and Fourniret promised he would drive her home afterwards. After they got to Floing, Fourniret asked Desramault if she was a virgin, and she told him she wasn't and had a boyfriend. Enraged, he attacked her. She fought back as he attempted to rape her, and as she attempted to escape, the couple gagged her with adhesive bandages before Fourniret strangled her. Fourniret and Olivier drove to Donchery and buried her body in the garden of the Château du Sautou.\n\nFourniret and Olivier married in July 1989. On the afternoon of 20 December, they drove across the Franco-Belgian border to Saint-Servais, Namur, with their one-year-old son. Fourniret saw 12-year-old Elisabeth Brichet walk to a friend's house, and waited outside for her until she left to walk the short distance home just before 7 pm. He asked her to give him directions to a doctor's surgery for his son. She agreed to do so, and the couple drove back to Floing with her. When Fourniret undressed the girl, he saw that she was on her period, so Olivier cleaned Brichet's genitals. The next day, the couple took her to the château, where Fourniret strangled her after a failed attempted to suffocate her with a plastic bag. Her body was buried in the garden of the château, near to that of Jeanne-Marie Desramault. There were a number of reported sightings of Brichet, in Belgium and abroad, in the years following her disappearance, and a number of people were suspected by police of abducting her, including Marc Dutroux. After Dutroux's arrest in 1996, Brichet's mother Marie-Noëlle Bouzet helped to organise the White March in honour of Belgium's missing and murdered children. The remains of Brichet and Desramault were exhumed from the gardens of the Château du Sautou on 3 July 2004, after Fourniret and Olivier confessed to the killings.\n\nThe final known murder Fourniret committed with Olivier's help took place on 21 November 1990 near France's western coast. The couple drove to a shopping centre in Rezé after leaving court in Nantes, where they had been convicted of burglary. They saw Natacha Danais, a 13-year-old local, walking through the car park towards her home, having been sent to fetch her mother's forgotten purse. They lured her into the van, asking her for directions. After driving to a secluded area near the coast, Fourniret stabbed Danais twice in the chest with a screwdriver and strangled her before leaving her body on the beach. Later investigation suggested that the girl's body was raped after the murder. Eight days after Danais's death, Jean Groix, a neighbour of her family, was arrested after a white van belonging to him matched the description of the van that her sister had vaguely seen her get into from across the shopping centre's car park at the time she disappeared. Groix was found to be lodging suspected members of the ETA in his home; police suspected that Danais had found out about this. Two months later, Groix committed suicide in his prison cell. He was reported to have been unable to bear the burden of having been accused of murder.\n\nThe Fourniret family moved to Sart-Custinne, Gedinne, Belgium, in the early 1990s. Michel Fourniret admitted that he committed two more murders in France between 2000 and 2001, after a ten-year break. He drove alone across the Franco-Belgian border to Charleville-Mézières on 16 May 2000 and accosted 18-year-old Céline Saison, who was on her way home from school, in the late afternoon. Driving with her back to Belgium, he blackmailed her into having sex with him before strangling her with a rope and dumping her body in a forest in Sugny, Vresse-sur-Semois. Saison's skeletal remains were discovered there by mushroom pickers on 22 July. On 5 May 2001, Fourniret drove back to France – this time to his birthplace of Sedan – and met Mananya Thumpong, a 13-year-old girl of Thai origin whom he had met and given a lift home a few weeks earlier, outside the local library. He invited her to come to his house and play with his son. Accepting this offer, Thumpong climbed into the car and was driven to Nollevaux, Paliseul, where Fourniret strangled her. Her body lay undiscovered for months in a nearby forest as it was devoured almost entirely by wild animals. Thumpong's remaining bones were found on 1 March 2002.\n\nIn February 2018, Fourniret confessed to killing two more women in Auxerre: Marie-Angèle Domèce, an 18-year-old disabled woman, in July 1988, and Joanna Parrish, a 20-year-old British student, in May 1990. \n\nTwo French journalists have suggested that Fourniret killed former Minister for Labour Robert Boulin (who was involved in a real estate scandal at the time), based on a letter Fourniret wrote to Olivier.\n\nChristian Ranucci was one of the last persons executed in France, having been convicted of the abduction and murder, committed on 3 June 1974, of Marie-Dolorès Rambla, aged eight. There are suspicions that Ranucci may not actually have been the killer (although he confessed, his confession was later retracted). It has been suggested that Fourniret may have been involved as Fourniret was in the area at the time and had practically the same car as Ranucci. Analysis of photographs, however, suggest that the man in photographs produced as evidence could not have been Fourniret.\n\nFourniret was also named the \"Virgin hunter\". Although it is unclear where this nickname came from, it is alleged that Olivier promised Fourniret to help hunt \"virgins\" for sport, in return for Fourniret helping Olivier to murder her first husband (which never took place). The rape of women assumed to be virgins, is a recurring theme in the way Fourniret operated, something which he considered \"sport\".\n\nRachida Dati the then French Minister for Justice, who advocated legal reforms in France, wanted a more relaxed attitude to preventative custody and parole under supervision. She was heavily criticised by the judiciary. The question was asked how Fourniret, who was a known criminal, could have carried on for such a long time without being noticed and how the changes in the law would have a positive influence on cases like these.\n"}
{"id": "21912316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21912316", "title": "Mirawdale", "text": "Mirawdale\n\nMirawdale, Mirawdeli ميراو ده لي also known as Agha, Axa or written as Mirawdeli is a Kurdish tribe in Iraqi Kurdistan. The tribe has an estimated 5000+ families, and they are mainly located in the Peshdar area on the border of Iranian Kurdistan. Some are located in Iranian Kurdistan near the town of Sardasht. The Influence of the family within the Kurdish Region of Iraq has been widely noted and their history dates back to the Zoroastrian times.\n\nKamal Mirawdale, a Political Analyst, Author and Poet, son of the great well known Poet Mammand Aghai (\"Fanie\") who is well known in Kurdistan was one of the Iraqi Kurdistan Presidential candidates in 2009. Kamal Mirawdeli received majority of votes in the Sulaimaniya and Soran regions.\n\nHamad Agha is considered the father of the tribe and had married a Russian woman later having 14 sons.\n\nIn the early 1990s the tribe was in conflict with other tribes in the Kurdish Region,after a huge fight they controlled the majority of Pshder , but unfortunately the Government at that helped the other tribes to control Mirawdelie's Area while we were always helping the government and ruled half of Kurdistan for a decades .as a result many influential Mirawdale members fled to the border of Iran where they stayed for nearly 3 years.\n\nSince the late 1990s, some of Mirawdalies with NGOs and other groups sought refuge from Iraqi Kurdistan due to the political and financial situation in the area and they are now mostly settled in Europe, the United States and Canada.\n\nDue to the political and financial situation in Iraqi Kurdistan, numbers of the tribe fled the country and they were mainly in their early 20s which had high impact to the financial situation and they are still settled in the countries they went to.\n"}
{"id": "43405357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43405357", "title": "Miss Earth 2015", "text": "Miss Earth 2015\n\nMiss Earth 2015, the 15th Miss Earth pageant, was held on 5 December 2015 at Marx Halle in Vienna, Austria. It was the first time the pageant was held in Europe and outside of Asia. It was also the first back to back victories in Miss Earth history: Angelia Ong of the Philippines crowned by Jamie Herrell of the Philippines.\n\nAt the end of the night, Australia got its highest placement to date through Dayanna Grageda's finish as Miss Earth-Air 2015 where she was crowned by Andrea Neu, Miss Earth-Air 2014 from United States; Brittany Payne of United States was crowned Miss Earth-Water 2015, and Thiessa Sickert of Brazil was crowned as Miss Earth-Fire 2015 and she was crowned by Anastasia Trusova, Miss Earth-Fire 2014 from Russia.\n\nThe theme of this year's pageant was the promotion of environmental awareness by focusing on the Climate Change campaign thru the 5R’s : Re-think, Reduce, Re-use, Recycle and Respect.\n\n\nThe following are the 86 delegates who competed for the Miss Earth crown:\n\nCountries and territories have been confirmed to debut this year:\n\nCountries and territories which has previously competed and will return this year:\n\n\n\n\nContestants who previously competed or will compete at other international beauty pageants:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "682784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682784", "title": "Pechenegs", "text": "Pechenegs\n\nThe Pechenegs or Patzinaks were a semi-nomadic Turkic people from Central Asia speaking the Pecheneg language which belonged to the Oghuz branch of Turkic language family. Three of the ruling clans of the Pechenegs were the Kankalis/Kangli.\n\nThe Pechenegs were mentioned as \"Bjnak\", \"Bjanak\" or \"Bajanak\" in medieval Arabic and Persian texts, as \"Be-ča-nag\" in Classical Tibetan documents, as \"Pačanak-i\" in works written in Georgian, and as \"Pacinnak\" in Armenian. Anna Komnene and other Byzantine authors referred to them as \"Patzinakoi\" or \"Patzinakitai\". In medieval Latin texts, the Pechenegs were referred to as \"Pizenaci\", \"Bisseni\" or \"Bessi\". East Slavic peoples use the terms \"Pečenegi\" or \"Pečenezi\", while the Poles mention them as \"Pieczyngowie\" or \"Piecinigi\". The Hungarian word for Pecheneg is \"besenyő\"; the Romanian term is \"Pecenegi\" The ethnonym derived from the Old Turkic word for \"brother-in-law” (\"baja\", \"baja-naq\" or \"bajinaq\"), implying that it initially referred to an \"in-law related clan or tribe\".\n\nThree of the eight Pecheneg \"provinces\" or clans were collectively known as Kangars. According to Constantine VII Porphyrogenitus, the Kangars received this denomination because \"they are more valiant and noble than the rest\" of the people \"and that is what the title Kangar signifies\". For no Turkic word with similar meaning is known, Ármin Vámbéry connected the ethnonym to the Kirghiz words \"kangir\" (\"agile\"), \"kangirmak\" (\"to go out riding\") and \"kani-kara\" (\"black-blooded\"), while Carlile Aylmer Macartney associated it with the Chagatai word \"gang\" (\"chariot\"). Omeljan Pritsak proposed that the name had initially been a composite term \"(Kängär As)\" deriving from the Tocharian word for stone \"(kank)\" and the Iranian ethnonym \"As\". If the latter assumption is valid, the Kangars' ethnonym suggests that Iranian elements contributed to the formation of the Pecheneg people.\n\nMahmud al-Kashgari, an 11th-century man of letters specialized in Turkic dialects argued that the language spoken by the Pechenegs was a variant of the Cuman and Oghuz idioms. He suggested that foreign influences on the Pechenegs gave rise to phonetical differences between their tongue and the idiom spoken by other Turkic peoples. Anna Komnene likewise stated that the Pechenegs and the Cumans shared a common language. Although the Pecheneg language itself died out centuries ago, the names of the Pecheneg \"provinces\" recorded by Constantine Porphyrogenitus prove that the Pechenegs spoke a Turkic language. The Huns, Khazars and Pechenegs are thought to have belonged to the same proto-Turkic group of languages as the modern Chuvash language (Oghur dialects).\n\nPaul Pelliot originated the proposal that the \"Book of Sui\"a 7th-century Chinese workpreserved the earliest record on the Pechenegs. The book mentioned the \"Pei-ju\" people who had settled near the \"En-ch'u\" and \"A-lan\" peoples (identified as Onogurs and Alans, respectively), to the east of \"Fu-lin\" (or the Eastern Roman Empire). Victor Spinei emphasizes that the Pechenegs' association with the \"Pei-ju\" is \"uncertain\". He proposes that a 8th-century Uighur envoy's report, which survives in Tibetan translation, contains the first certain reference to the Pechenegs. The report recorded an armed conflict between the \"Be-ča-nag\" and the \"Hor\" (or Ouze) peoples in the region of the river Syr Darya.\n\nIbn Khordadbeh (c. 820 – 912 CE), Mahmud al-Kashgari (11th century), Muhammad al-Idrisi (1100–1165), and many other Muslim scholars agree that the Pechenegs belonged to the Turkic peoples. The \"Russian Primary Chronicle\" stated that the \"Torkmens, Pechenegs, Torks, and Polovcians\" descended from \"the godless sons of Ishmael, who had been sent as a chastisement to the Christians\". Omeljan Pritsak says that the Pechenegs' homeland was located between the Aral Sea and the middle course of the Syr Darya, along the important trade routes connecting Central Asia with Eastern Europe. The Orkhon inscriptions listed the Kangars among the subject peoples of the Eastern Turkic Khaganate.\n\nThe Turkic Khaganate collapsed in 744 which gave rise to a series of inter-tribal confrontations in the Eurasian steppes. The Karluks attacked the Oghuz Turks, forcing them to launch a westward migration towards the Pechenegs' lands. The Uighur envoy's report testifies that the Oghuz and Pecheneg waged war against each other already in the 8th century, most probably for the control of the trade routes. The Oghuz made an alliance with the Karluks and Kimaks and defeated the Pechenegs and their allies in a battle near the Lake Aral before 850, according to the 10th-century scholar, Al-Masudi. Most Pechenegs launched a new migration towards the Volga River, but some groups were forced to join the Oghuz. The latter formed the 19th tribe of the Oghuz tribal federation in the 11th century.\n\nThe Pechenegs who leaved their homeland settled between the Ural and Volga rivers. Their new territory was quite large, with a 30-day-walk extension, according to Muslim sources. Their territory bordered on the Khazars, Slavs, Cumans and Ouzes. The Pechenegs made regular raids against their neighbors and sold their captives. The Khazars made an alliance with the Ouzes against the Pechenegs and they invaded the Pechenegs' land from two directions. The double attack forced the Pechenegs into a new westward migration. They marched across the Khazar Khaganate and expelled the Magyars from the lands along the Kuban River and the upper course of the river Donets. The \"Hudud al-'Alam\"a late 10th-century Persian geographydistinguished two Pecheneg groups, referreing to those who lived along the Donets as \"Turkic Pechenegs\", and to those along the Kuban as \"Khazarian Pechenegs\". The latter denominations implies that some Pecheneg tribes had been forced to acknowledge the Khazars supremacy.\n\nAccording to Gardizi and other Muslim scholars who based their works on 9th-century sources, the Pechenegs' new territories were bordered by the Cumans, Khazars, Oghuz Turks and Slavs. The same sources also narrate that the Pechenegs regularly waged war against the Khazars and the latter's vassals, the Burtas. The Khazars and the Oghuz Turks made an alliance against the Pechenegs and attacked them. Outnumbered by the enemy, the Pechenegs started a new migration, invaded the dwelling places of the Hungarians and forced them to leave. There is no consensual date for this second migration of the Pechenegs: Pritsak argues that it took place around 830, but Kristó suggests that it could hardly occur before the 850s. The Pechenegs settled along the rivers Donets and Kuban.\n\nIt is plausible that the distinction between the \"Turkic Pechenegs\" and \"Khazar Pechenegs\" mentioned in the 10th-century \"Hudud al-'alam\" had its origin in this period. Spinei proposes that the latter denomination most probably refers to Pecheneg groups accepting Khazar suzerainty. In addition to these two branches, a third group of Pechenegs existed in this period: Constantine Porphyrogenitus and Ibn Fadlan mention that those who decided not to leave their homeland were incorporated into the Oghuz federation of Turkic tribes. However, it is uncertain whether this groups' formation is connected to the Pechenegs' first or second migration (as it is proposed by Pritsak and Golden, respectively). According to Mahmud al-Kashgari, one of the \"Üçok\" clans of the Oghuz Turks was still formed by Pechenegs in the 1060s.\n\nIn Mahmud Kashgari's 11th-century work \"Dīwān lughāt al-turk\" (), the name \"Beçenek\" is given two meanings. The first is \"a Turkish nation living around the country of the Rum\", where \"Rum\" was the Turkish word for the Eastern Roman Empire (Byzantine Empire). Kashgari's second definition of \"Beçenek\" is \"a branch of Oghuz Turks\"; he subsequently described the Oghuz as being formed of 22 branches, of which the 19th branch was named \"Beçenek\". Max Vasmer derives this name from the Turkic word for \"brother-in-law, relative\" ( and ).\n\nBy the 9th and 10th centuries, they controlled much of the steppes of southeast Europe and the Crimean Peninsula. Although an important factor in the region at the time, like most nomadic tribes their concept of statecraft failed to go beyond random attacks on neighbours and spells as mercenaries for other powers.\n\nAccording to Constantine Porphyrogenitus, writing in c. 950, Patzinakia, the Pecheneg realm, stretched west as far as the Siret River (or even the Eastern Carpathian Mountains), and was four days distant from \"Tourkias\" (i.e. Hungary).\n\nAccording to Omeljan Pritsak, the Pechenegs are descendants from the ancient Kangars who originate from Tashkent.\n\nIn the Armenian chronicles of Matthew of Edessa Pechenegs are mentioned a couple of times. The first mention is in chapter 75, where it says that in the year 499 (according to the old Armenian calendar — years 1050–51 according to the Gregorian calendar) the \"Badzinag\" nation caused great destruction in many provinces of Rome, i.e. the Byzantine territories. The second is in chapter 103, which is about the Battle of Manzikert. In that chapter it is told that the allies of Rome, \"Padzunak\" and \"Uz\" (some branches of the Oghuz Turks) tribes which changed their sides at the peak of the battle and began fighting against the Byzantine forces, side by side with the Seljuq Turks. In the 132nd chapter a war between Rome and the \"Padzinags\" is described and after the defeat of the Roman (Byzantine) Army, an unsuccessful siege of Constantinople by the \"Padzinags\" is mentioned. In that chapter, the \"Patzinags\" are described as an \"all archer army\". In chapter 299, the Armenian prince, \"Vasil\", who was in the Roman Army, sent a platoon of \"Padzinags\" (they had settled in the city of Misis, around modern Adana, which is far away from the lands where Pechenegs were then mainly living) to the aid of the Christians.\n\nIn the 9th century, the Byzantines became allied with the Pechenegs, using them to fend off other, more dangerous tribes such as Kievan Rus' and the Magyars.\n\nThe Uzes, another Turkic steppe people, eventually expelled the Pechenegs from their homeland; in the process, they also seized most of their livestock and other goods. An alliance of Oghuz, Kimeks, and Karluks was also pressing the Pechenegs, but another group, the Samanids, defeated that alliance. Driven further west by the Khazars and Cumans by 889, the Pechenegs in turn drove the Magyars west of the Dnieper River by 892.\n\nBulgarian Tsar Simeon I employed the Pechenegs to help fend off the Magyars. The Pechenegs were so successful that they drove out the Magyars remaining in Etelköz and the Pontic steppes, forcing them westward towards the Pannonian plain, where they later founded the Hungarian state.\n\nIn the 9th century the Pechenegs began a period of wars against Kievan Rus'. For more than two centuries they had launched raids into the lands of Rus', which sometimes escalated into full-scale wars (like the 920 war on the Pechenegs by Igor of Kiev, reported in the \"Primary Chronicle\"). The Pecheneg wars against Kievan Rus' caused the Slavs from Walachian territories to gradually migrate north of the Dniestr in the 10th and 11th centuries. Rus'/Pecheneg temporary military alliances also occurred however, as during the Byzantine campaign in 943 led by Igor. In 968 the Pechenegs attacked and besieged Kiev; some joined the Prince of Kiev, Sviatoslav I, in his Byzantine campaign of 970–971, though eventually they ambushed and killed the Kievan prince in 972. According to the \"Primary Chronicle\", the Pecheneg Khan Kurya made a chalice from Sviatoslav's skull, in accordance with the custom of steppe nomads. The fortunes of the Rus'-Pecheneg confrontation swung during the reign of Vladimir I of Kiev (990–995), who founded the town of Pereyaslav upon the site of his victory over the Pechenegs, followed by the defeat of the Pechenegs during the reign of Yaroslav I the Wise in 1036. Shortly thereafter, other nomadic peoples replaced the weakened Pechenegs in the Pontic steppe: the Cumans and the Torks. According to Mykhailo Hrushevsky (\"History of Ukraine-Ruthenia\"), after its defeat near Kiev the Pecheneg Horde moved towards the Danube, crossed the river, and disappeared out of the Pontic steppes.\nAfter centuries of fighting involving all their neighbours—the Byzantine Empire, Bulgaria, Kievan Rus', Khazaria, and the Magyars—the Pechenegs were annihilated as an independent force in 1091 at the Battle of Levounion by a combined Byzantine and Cuman army under Byzantine Emperor Alexios I Komnenos. Alexios I recruited the defeated Pechenegs, whom he settled in the district of Moglena (today in Macedonia) into a tagma \"of the Moglena Pechenegs\". Attacked again in 1094 by the Cumans, many Pechenegs were slain or absorbed. The Byzantines defeated the Pechenegs again at the Battle of Beroia in 1122, on the territory of modern-day Bulgaria. For some time, significant communities of Pechenegs still remained in the Kingdom of Hungary. With time the Balkan Pechenegs lost their national identity and became fully assimilated, mostly with Magyars and Bulgarians.\n\nIn the 12th century, according to Byzantine historian John Kinnamos, the Pechenegs fought as mercenaries for the Byzantine Emperor Manuel I Komnenos in southern Italy against the Norman king of Sicily, William the Bad. A group of Pechenegs was present at the battle of Andria in 1155.\n\nThe Pechenegs were last mentioned in 1168 as members of Turkic tribes known in the chronicles as the \"Chorni Klobuky (Black Hats)\".\n\nIn 15th-century Hungary, some people adopted the surname \"Besenyö\" (Hungarian for \"Pecheneg\"); they were most numerous in the county of Tolna. One of the earliest introductions of Islam into Eastern Europe came about through the work of an early 11th-century Muslim prisoner who was captured by the Byzantines. The Muslim prisoner was brought into the Besenyö territory of the Pechenegs, where he taught and converted individuals to Islam. In the late 12th century, Abu Hamid al Garnathi referred to Hungarian Pechenegs – probably Muslims – living disguised as Christians. In the southeast of Serbia, there is a village called Pecenjevce founded by Pechenegs. After war with Byzantium, the broken remnants of the tribes found refuge in the area, where they established their settlement.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15926438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15926438", "title": "Promaucae", "text": "Promaucae\n\nPromaucae, also spelled as \"Promaucas\" or \"Purumaucas\" (from Quechua \"purum awqa\": wild enemy), were an indigenous pre-Columbian Mapuche tribal group that lived in the present territory of Chile, south of the Maipo River basin of Santiago, Chile and the Itata River. Those to the north were called \"Quillotanes\" and \"Mapochoes\" by the Spanish colonists). They spoke Mapudungun, like the Moluche to the south, and were part of the Picunche tribe that lived north of the Itata River.\n\nThe Inca referred to all the peoples who were not under their empire as \"puruma auca\". Because these Picunche tribes were successful in defending their territory against the Inca Empire in the Battle of the Maule, they were given this distinctive name. In an effort to transliterate the word into Spanish phonetics, the Spanish referred to them as the \"Purumaucas\" or \"Promaucaes\". The early Spanish in the area knew their region as the province of Promaucae and its inhabitants were called \"Promaucaes\".\n\nThe Promaucae are the first inhabitants of the Rancagua Valley of whom there is a historical account. The Mapuche included them in the group that they knew as the picunche, \"people of the north\". The Promaucae, as has already been mentioned, constituted a distinct cultural unit separate from those Picunche who lived to the north of the Maipo, named mapochoes, and to the south of the Maule, designated \"maules\" and cauquenes. The Inca invaders noted the great military capacity and will to fight of the Promucae.\n\nThey were farmers and constructed some earthworks for irrigation. They left ceramic vestiges.\n\nThe Inca in their expansion used the Pucara del Cerro La Muralla, which they strengthened. The Pucará was the southernmost Inca settlement then known. Inca expeditions in this territory were organized by Túpac Inca Yupanqui at the end of the 15th century and later by Huayna Cápac.\n\nThe history of this period is based on what was written in later chronicles. These chronicles indicate that the Promaucaes, informed about the coming of the Incas, allied themselves with the Antalli, Pincu and Cauqui subgroups, forming an army of 20,000 men. The Incas sent members of parliament in order that they recognize Túpac Inca Yupanqui as sovereign. The Purumaucas decided to face them in the so-called Battle of the Maule. During the confrontation, both sides suffered many fatalities and neither army won a clear advantage.\n\nOn the fourth day, neither side left their own camp, both of which had been fortified, as they hoped to defend them if their opponents attacked. The fifth and sixth days were passed in the same manner but by the seventh, the Purumauca and their allies retired and returned home claiming victory. The Inca later considered chasing them, on which some chiefs agreed; but they decided to secure only what they had already conquered, with which Túpac Inca Yupanqui agreed.\n\nDue to their proximity to the Inca Empire, the Promaucae learned the new technology that the Inca displayed in their new domains.\n\nAmong the peoples the Spanish called the Promaucae, adopting the term from the Inca, were particularly the people of the Rapel River valley. Those of the Mataquito River valley were called the \"Cure\", for which the province of Curico is named. The people in the Maule River valley and to the south were distinguished as \"Maule.\" Those to the south of the Maule and north of the Itata River were known as \"Cauqui\" by the Inca or \"Cauquene.\" The Spanish named the Cauquenes River after them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6929660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6929660", "title": "Public holidays in Burundi", "text": "Public holidays in Burundi\n"}
{"id": "15985974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15985974", "title": "Reno Gang", "text": "Reno Gang\n\nThe Reno Gang, also known as the Reno Brothers Gang and The Jackson Thieves, were a group of criminals that operated in the Midwestern United States during and just after the American Civil War. Though short-lived, they carried out the first three peacetime train robberies in U.S. history. Most of the stolen money was never recovered.\n\nThe gang was broken up by the lynchings of ten of its members by vigilante mobs in 1868. The murders created an international diplomatic incident with Canada and Great Britain, a general public uproar, and international newspaper coverage. No one was ever identified or prosecuted for the lynchings.\n\nThe Reno Brothers have been portrayed in two movies, including Elvis Presley's first movie where he starred as brother Clint.\n\nJ. Wilkison (also known as Wilkinson or Wilkerson) Reno moved to Indiana in 1813 from the Salt River region of Kentucky, one of the Civil War border states. He married Julia Ann Freyhafer in 1835. Future gang members Franklin (Frank), John, Simeon (Sim), and William (Bill) Reno were born to the couple in Rockford, Jackson County, Indiana. There was also another son, Clinton (\"Honest\" Clint), and a daughter, Laura. In their early years, the siblings were raised in a strict, religious (Methodist) farming household and were required to read the Bible all day on Sunday, according to John Reno's 1879 autobiography. Neither Clint nor Laura were involved in the gang's crime spree.\n\nThe brothers got into trouble early. John claimed that he and Frank bilked travelers in crooked card games. Also, the Renos were suspected when a series of mysterious fires broke out around Rockford over a period of seven years beginning in 1851. The community also suspected the brothers in the theft of a horse. The crimes caused considerable tension in the town and Wilkison and four of his sons fled, living near St. Louis, Missouri, for some time, before returning to their farm in 1860. The war broke shortly after and the brothers enlisted in hopes of escaping the angry citizens of the town.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Frank, John, and possibly Simeon became bounty jumpers. They were paid to enlist in the Union Army, then failed to appear for duty. They continued to enlist under different names and locales, taking additional money. Federal records show that Frank, John and Simeon deserted. Many residents of southern Indiana were sympathetic to the Confederate States of America or were Northern Democrats wanting peace (known as \"Copperheads\"). It is not known if the Reno brothers were Copperheads or simply taking advantage of the situation. William briefly went AWOL, but did return to serve out his enlistment. He was the only one who received an honorable discharge from the army. (There is a possibility that he was not a member of the gang.)\n\nIn 1864, Frank and John returned to Rockford, and a gang began to form under their leadership; Simeon and William joined them. Late that year, Frank and two other gang members, Grant Wilson and a man named Dixon, robbed the post office and Gilbert's Store in nearby Jonesville, Indiana. They were arrested, but were released on bond. Wilson agreed to testify against his fellow robbers, but was murdered before he could do so, and Frank was acquitted.\n\nThe Reno Gang was the first \"Brotherhood of Outlaws\" in the United States. They terrorized the Midwest for several years and inspired the creation of a host of other similar gangs who copied their crimes, leading to several decades of high-profile train robberies. Their gang attracted several new members after the end of the war. They started by robbing and murdering travelers in Jackson County and began to branch out to other counties, where they raided merchants and communities.\n\nThey planned to rob their first train near Seymour; the town was an important rail hub at that time. On the evening of October 6, 1866, John Reno, Sim Reno, and Frank Sparkes boarded an Ohio and Mississippi Railway train as it started to leave the Seymour depot. They broke into the express car, restrained the guard, and broke open a safe containing approximately $16,000. From the moving train, the three men pushed a larger safe over the side, where the rest of the gang was waiting. Unable to open the second safe, the gang fled as a large posse approached.\n\nLater, passenger George Kinney stepped forward to identify two of the robbers. The three men were arrested, but were released on bail. When Kinney was shot and killed, the other passengers refused to testify and all charges had to be dropped. However, the robbery would ultimately lead to the gang's downfall. The contents of the safe were insured by the Adams Express Company, which hired the Pinkerton Detective Agency to track down and capture the gang.\n\nOn November 17, 1867, the Daviess County Courthouse in Gallatin, Missouri, was robbed. John Reno was identified, arrested by Pinkerton agents, and sentenced to 25 years in the Missouri State Penitentiary in 1868. He was released in February 1878. He returned to Seymour in 1886, but was again sent to prison, this time for counterfeiting, for three years.\n\nHowever, this did not deter the gang. Three robberies in Iowa followed in quick succession, in February and March 1868. Frank Reno and fellow gang members Albert Perkins and Miles Ogle were caught by Pinkertons led by Allan Pinkerton's son William, but broke out of jail on April 1. A second train robbery occurred in December 1867, when two members of the gang robbed another train leaving the Seymour depot. The robbers netted $8,000, which was turned over to the brothers. A third train, owned by the Ohio & Mississippi, was stopped by six members of the gang on July 10, though the Reno brothers were not involved. Waiting in ambush however were ten Pinkerton agents. A shootout ensued; after several of the gang were wounded, the would-be robbers fled.\n\nIn March 1868, the residents of Seymour formed a vigilante group with the aim of killing the gang. In response, the gang fled west to Iowa where they robbed the Harrison County treasury of $14,000. The next day, they robbed the Mills County treasury of $12,000. The Pinkerton detectives quickly located the men and arrested them at Council Bluffs, Iowa. On April 1, the gang escaped from their Iowa jail and returned to Indiana.\n\nThe Reno Gang then robbed its fourth train on May 22. Twelve men boarded a Jeffersonville, Madison and Indianapolis Railroad train as it stopped at the train depot in Marshfield, Indiana, a now defunct community in Scott County, Indiana. As the train pulled away, the gang overpowered the engineer and uncoupled the passenger cars, allowing the engine to speed away. After breaking into the express car and throwing express messenger Thomas Harkins off the train (causing fatal injuries), the gang broke open the safe, netting an estimated $96,000. This robbery gained national attention and was published in many major papers. The Pinkertons pursued, but the gang broke up and fled throughout the Midwest.\n\nThe gang attempted to rob another train on July 9. Pinkerton detectives had learned of the plan and ten agents were waiting aboard the train. When the gang broke in, the agents opened fire, wounding two of the gang. Everyone was able to escape except Volney Elliot, who identified the other members of the gang in exchange for leniency. Using the information, the detectives arrested two more members of the gang (Charlie Roseberry and Theodore Clifton) the next day in Rockport.\n\nAll three men were taken by train to jail. However, on July 10, 1868, three miles outside Seymour, Indiana, the prisoners were taken off the train, and hanged by the neck from a nearby tree by a group of masked men calling itself the Jackson County Vigilance Committee. Three other gang members, Henry Jerrell, Frank Sparks, and John Moore, were captured shortly after in Illinois and returned to Seymour. In a grisly repeat, they too fell into the hands of vigilantes and were hanged from the same tree. The site became known as Hangman Crossing, Indiana.\n\nOn July 27, 1868, the Pinkertons captured William and Simeon Reno in Indianapolis. The men were jailed at the Scott County Jail in Lexington. They were tried and convicted of robbing the Marshfield train, but because of the threat of vigilantes, they were moved to the more secure Floyd County Jail. The day after their removal from Lexington, the vigilantes broke into the vacated jail, hoping to catch and lynch the men.\n\nFrank Reno, the gang's leader, and Charlie Anderson were tracked down to the Canadian border town of Windsor, Ontario. With the help of United States Secretary of State William H. Seward, the men were extradited in October under the provisions of the 1842 Webster-Ashburton Treaty. Both men were sent to New Albany to join the other prisoners.\n\nOn the night of December 11, about 65 hooded men traveled by train to New Albany. The men marched four abreast from the station to the Floyd County Jail where, just after midnight, the men forced their way into the jail and the sheriff's home. After they beat the sheriff and shot him in the arm for refusing to turn over the keys, his wife surrendered them to the mob. Frank Reno was the first to be dragged from his cell to be lynched. He was followed by brothers William and Simeon. Another gang member, Charlie Anderson, was the fourth and last to be executed, at around 4:30 a.m on December 12. It was rumored that the vigilantes were part of the group known as the Scarlet Mask Society or Jackson County Vigilance Committee. No one was ever charged, named or officially investigated in any of the lynchings. Many local newspapers, such as the \"New Albany Weekly Ledger\", stated that \"Judge Lynch\" had spoken. Reno Avenue in New Albany is likely named for the gang.\n\nFrank Reno and Charlie Anderson were technically in federal custody when they were lynched. This is believed to be the only time in U.S. history that a federal prisoner had ever been lynched by a mob before a trial. Secretary of State Seward wrote a formal letter of apology as a result. A new bill was later introduced into the U.S. Congress that clarified the responsibility for the safety of extradited prisoners.\n\nThe three Reno brothers are buried in the Seymour city cemetery. Treasure hunters have long searched for any trace of their rumoured hoard of loot, but nothing has been found.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17096543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17096543", "title": "Richard Honaker", "text": "Richard Honaker\n\nRichard Henderson Honaker (born March 10, 1951) is a lawyer in Rock Springs, Wyoming who was nominated on March 19, 2007, by U.S. President George W. Bush to serve as one of three U.S. District Judges for the District of Wyoming. The nomination was given the highest \"well qualified\" rating by the judicial evaluation committee of the American Bar Association. Honaker was initially recommended to Bush by U.S. Senator Craig L. Thomas of Wyoming, who died some three months later. Honaker had co-chaired Thomas' reelection campaign in 2006 in Rock Springs. Honaker never obtained a Senate vote on his confirmation. The succession of Barack Obama to the presidency ended his candidacy. Had he been confirmed, Honaker would have succeeded Judge Clarence A. Brimmer in Cheyenne. Nancy D. Freudenthal was subsequently nominated and confirmed to the seat.\n\nHonaker was one of two children adopted by Hayward E. Honaker (1911–2001) and the former Faola Henderson (born 1917) in Laramie, the seat of Albany County in southern Wyoming. He has a sister (born 1954). The Honakers were of Swiss ethnicity; originally \"Honegger\", they came to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the early 18th century. One of Honaker's ancestors was with George Rogers Clark in the march to Vincennes, Indiana during the American Revolution. The Honakers settled in western Virginia, and most Honakers still reside in either Virginia or West Virginia.\n\nHonaker's paternal family came to Laramie in 1919 and operated a grocery store and meat market. His maternal family came to the Bighorn Country in 1915 and farmed sugar beets.\n\nHonaker graduated in 1969 from Laramie High School and was the first member of his family to receive a college degree. He procured his Bachelor of Arts with honors in English and government in 1973 from Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts. At Harvard, he and future U.S. Senator Al Franken of Minnesota, washed dishes together as work-study students. Still another classmate of Honaker's was the assassinated Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan. At Harvard, he was a member of the Hasty Pudding Club.\n\nIn 1976, Honaker obtained his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Wyoming Law School in Laramie. He worked his way through law school by serving as the night editor of the \"Laramie Boomerang\". Honaker is recognized by \"Super Lawyers\" magazine as among the top 5 percent of attorneys in the United States. In 1989, he was licensed to practice before the United States Supreme Court.\n\nFrom 1976-1978, he was a state assistant attorney general and an aide to Democratic Governor Edgar Herschler. In 1979, Herschler named Honaker as Wyoming's second state public defender, in which capacity he supervised in criminal law the work of thirty trial lawyers during a two-year stint. While he was a public defender, Honaker prosecuted a lengthy homicide case in Rock Springs and decided to open a law office there. He is the only person to have served as president of both the Wyoming Trial Lawyers Association and Wyoming Bar Association, a position he held in 2002 and 2003. He was appointed by the Wyoming Supreme Court to the bar association's rules and disciplinary committees.\n\nFrom 1987-1993, Honaker served in the Wyoming House of Representatives as a conservative Democrat from Rock Springs, the seat of Sweetwater County. Part of a five-member Sweetwater County delegation, Honaker's three terms coincided with the administration of Democratic Governor Michael J. Sullivan, who endorsed Honaker's judicial nomination. Honaker served on the House corporations, judiciary, and rules committees. He did not run for a fourth term in 1992 because of redistricting. He changed his affiliation to Republican in 1994 and was defeated in a bid to return to the Wyoming House under a revised district plan. Honaker said that his party switch was motivated by his opposition to policies of U.S. President Bill Clinton. Since 2000, Honaker has maintained a solo law practice in Rock Springs, a Democratic and organized labor stronghold within usually otherwise Republican-leaning Wyoming.\n\nIn 2002, Honaker joined the Federalist Society, a body from which President Bush has procured numerous court nominees. He is a board member of the Home School Legal Defense Association. He has also been an adjunct professor of business law at Western Wyoming Community College in Rock Springs.\n\nHonaker is an elder at Providence (formerly Pilgrim's) Reformed Church in Rock Springs, a small congregation akin to conservative Presbyterian. In 1978, he married the former Shannon Kathleen Casey (born 1957), originally from the state capital of Cheyenne, the seat of Laramie County. The wedding ceremony, held in the home of Shannon's parents, was performed by U.S. District Judge Alan Bond Johnson, based in Cheyenne. Johnson first met Honaker when Honaker headed the indigent defender program. Judge Johnson describes Honaker as having a \"warm and attentive demeanor to all persons without regard to their station in life.\" If confirmed to the court, Honaker and Johnson would be judicial colleagues.\n\nThe Honakers have three children. Shannon Honaker is the chairman of the Sweetwater County Republican Party and a trustee of Western Wyoming Community College. The Shannon C. Honaker Scholarship, created by then Representative Honaker in 1991, is given annually to a home-educated student attending the University of Wyoming.\n\nThe Senate Judiciary Committee under Chairman Patrick Leahy of Vermont delayed holding a hearing on Honaker's nomination until February 12, 2008. His nomination was held up in committee. Opposition has also come from interest groups which support access to abortion: National Abortion Rights Action League Pro-Choice America, Feminist Majority, and Planned Parenthood, among others.\n\nIn his legislative races, Honaker was supported by the Wyoming National Right to Life Committee. In 1991 and 1992, Honaker introduced a bill that would prohibit abortion in Wyoming except in cases of rape, incest, or the threat to the life of the mother. His colleagues defeated the bill both years. Honaker explains that his activity post-dated the United States Supreme Court's decision in \"Webster v. Reproductive Health Services\", a 1989 case from Missouri. The court then had impliedly invited legislation regarding abortion from the states. In the 1992 \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" decision, the court closed the door on such proposals. More than forty states considered abortion legislation during that time.\n\nIn 1994, Honaker represented a political action committee that sought to get the anti-abortion measure on the ballot as a statewide initiative. The case was reported as \"Wyoming NARAL v. Karpan\". Honaker was not involved in drafting the initiative because he maintained that the \"Casey\" decision had rendered the measure moot. \"My client, the PAC, thought otherwise and paid me to represent their views. . . . I won the case, and then the voters of Wyoming voted down the initiative\" by a 61-39 percent margin,\" Honaker explained.\n\nAt the time, Honaker said: \"Unborn children are human beings, and abortion is the taking of the life of an unborn child who is a member of the human race,\" a statement which alarmed pro-choice advocates.\n\nHonaker has, however, procured support from some abortion supporters: Robert Shively, a Casper lawyer who formerly represented Planned Parenthood of the Rocky Mountains, Kate Fox of Cheyenne, who formerly represented Wyoming NARAL in the case, and former Democratic State Senators Lisa Kinney and Bob Reese, and State Representative Don Sullivan of Cheyenne.\n\nEric M. Alden of Wheatland in southeastern Wyoming, a former Republican legislator who opposed Honaker's anti-abortion bills, was nevertheless quoted accordingly in the \"Casper Star-Tribune\":\n\n\"I believe he has the potential to be one of the finest trial judges ever to serve in this state. His commitment to fairness is second to none. I can truthfully say that there is no person I would rather have as a judge on a case, no matter what side of any issue I was on, than Dick Honaker.\"\n\nShortly before his death, Senator Thomas released a statement which asserts that Honaker \"has a broad range of experience over the last thirty years in both state and federal courts in Wyoming. While his credentials are certainly outstanding, I am particularly impressed with his character and his values which are deeply rooted in Wyoming. He has the right judicial philosophy — he knows the importance of interpreting the law while not legislating from the bench.\n\nRepublican U.S. Senator Michael B. Enzi also hailed Honaker's nomination: \"[He] will be an excellent jurist . . . He has the experience and the temperament to serve our state and the judiciary well. . . . He knows the difference between legislating—from his experience as a Wyoming representative—and judging—from all his years of court work. Since the criteria is fairness, I want to assure you, Richard is among the fairest people I know.\"\n\nEnzi's Republican colleague, John Barrasso of Casper, who succeeded Thomas, agrees: \"I know Mr. Honaker and respect him as an individual. I admire his legal abilities and his passion for the law. There is no question he is ready to fill the seat for which he has been nominated.\"\n\nJudge Brimmer describes Honaker as \"very well-qualified\" for the position. Former Governor Sullivan, in a letter to U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, defends Honaker: \"He is not, as some have tried to portray him, a radical or person of extreme views.\" Sullivan said that he has observed Honaker, as a lawyer for injured plaintiffs, having represented clients \"very well . . . with care and concern. . . [He] carries a demeanor which would translate into a classic judicial temperament and a respect for and an understanding of the rule of law and legal precedent which would position him to be an outstanding trial judge.\"\n"}
{"id": "9791681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9791681", "title": "Roviana language", "text": "Roviana language\n\nRoviana is a member of the North West Solomonic branch of Oceanic languages. It is spoken around Roviana and Vonavona lagoons at the north central New Georgia in the Solomon Islands. It has 10,000 first-language speakers and an additional 16,000 people mostly over 30 years old speak it as a second language (Raymond 2005). In the past, Roviana was widely used as a trade language and further used as a lingua franca especially for church purposes in the Western Province but now it is being replaced by the Solomon Islands Pijin. Few published studies on Roviana language include: Ray (1926), Waterhouse (1949) and Todd (1978) contain the syntax of Roviana language.\nCorston-Oliver (1996 & 2002) discuss about the ergativity in Roviana.\nTodd (2000) and Ross (1988) discuss the clause structure in Roviana.\n\n\nThe Roviana alphabet is based on the Latin alphabet and consists of the above letters.\n\nallophones:\n\n\nV → V: / stressed Vs\n\nV → Ṽ / _N\n\n\n(C)V\n\nDiphthongs\n\nThere are five diphthongs; , , , , and \n\nThe majority of lexical morphemes consist of two or three syllables. Lexical morphemes consisting of four syllables or a single syllable are uncommon whereas morphemes consisting of more than four syllables have never occurred.\n\nStress is not contrastive.\n\n(i) Roots of one syllable, with the exception of prepositions and articles;\n\n(ii) Roots of two syllables are stressed on the initial syllables;\n\n(iii) Roots of more than two syllables are stressed on the first and second syllables;\n\nThe nominalising infix occurs within the first syllable of the root, it always receives stress;\n\nAll material which precedes the root (prefixes and reduplicated material) is assigned stress as if it were a single root;\n\nThe transitive suffix takes stress;\n\nOther suffixes, however, do not take stress and are ignored in determining the placement of stress. Material following the root is not treated as a unit for the purpose of stress assignment;\n\nThe suffix does not receive stress.\n\nStress is assigned independently to each root in a compound:\n\nRoviana word order is verb–subject–object (VSO).\n\nPronouns\n\nPronominal suffixes\nThese are suffixed to direct/inalienable possessions such as kin terms and parts of the body.\n\nlima -na \n[hand -3SG] \n'his/her/its hand'\ntama -qu \n[father 1SG] \n'my father'\n\nPreposed possessor\n\nThese are suffixed to indirect or alienable possessions:\n\nnana hore \n[POSS: 3SG canoe] \n'his/her canoe'\n\nmia popoa \n[POSS: 2SG home]\n'their home'\n\nPostposed possessor\n\nThese are suffixed to a second kind of indirect or alienable possessions:\n\nHie sa lose tanisa\n[This DEF room POSS:3PL]\n'This is his/her room'\n\nThe possessive for food is prefixed ge or ga:\n\ngemi ginani\n[POSS:2PL food]\n'your food'\n\nThe possessive for desire is prefixed o or e:\n\nequ puta\n[POSS:1SG sleep]\n'I want to sleep'\n\nInterrogative Pronouns\n\nIndefinite Pronouns\n\nDemonstrative Pronouns\n\nNouns\n\nThere are two classes of nouns in Roviana. The first includes kin terms,body parts and some local nouns. These are used with suffixed personal pronouns such as:\n\n\"tinaqu - 'my mother'; mata-na - 'her/his /its eyes\"'\n\nNouns of the second class are used with separate possessive words such as:\n\n\"qua buka - 'my book'; nana vetu - 'his/her/its house\"'\n\nLocal nouns are formed from verbs by the suffix 'ana'. They denote a place where an action is performed:\n\n\"habotu - 'sit'; habo-habotu-ana - 'chair\"'\n\nNouns are formed from verbs & adjectives by the infix . When the verb or adjective begins with a vowel, is prefixed:\n\n\"ene - 'to walk'; inene - 'a journey\"'\n\nWhen the verb or adjective begins a consonant in is infixed after the first consonant:\n\n\"kera - 'sing'; kinera -'song\"'\n\nA noun can also be formed by in from the causative or repriciprocal forms of verbs:\n\n\"gila -'to know'; vagila - 'to show'; vinagila-gila - 'a sign\"'\n\nDemonstratives\n\nArticles in Roviana occur before the noun, marking the noun phrase as common or proper. Roviana has definite and indefinite articles.\n\nThe indefinite article is 'na':\n\nna nana buka\n[INDEF POSS: 3SG book]\n'his/her book'\n\nna can also be exchanged with sa\n\n\"sa hore 'the canoe' \"\n\n'na' and 'sa' may also be applied with pl.nouns:\n\nna tie habahuala-di\n[INDEF person poor POSS:3PL]\n'the poor people'\n\nThe definite article is 'sa'\n\nsa dia vetu\n[DEF POSS:3PL house]\n'their house'\n\nThe personal articles are the non- absolutive 'e' and absolutive 'se'.\nE is commonly used with a proper noun in the subjective case, 'se' in the objective:\n\nDogoria rau se Nate rane sarere lahe.\n[Saw 1SG ABS Nate rane sarere lahe]\n'I saw Nate last Saturday.'\n\nImperative and Interrogative sentences\n\nImperative sentences\n\nAn actor can optionally be omitted (1); otherwise there is no structural difference from a declarative clause (2).\n\n\"La (si goi).\"\n\ngo ABS 2SG\n\n‘Go!’\n\n\"Va-mae-a sa magu.\"\n\nCAUS-come-3SG DEF knife\n\n‘Give me the knife!’\n\nInterrogative sentences\n\nYes-no questions are structurally identical to declaratives, but have a distinct rising intonation. The two single word answers are uve ‘yes’ and lokari ‘no’.\n\nWh-questions or information questions contain an interrogative phrase in focus position (i.e. clause initial) and optionally is followed by the focal particle si; for example,\n\n\"ae\" ‘where?’\n\n\"esei\" ‘who?’\n\n\"kavisa\" ‘how many/much?’\n\n\"sa\" ‘what?’\n\n\"vea\" ‘how?, why?’\n\n\"Esei poza-mu si agoi?\"\n\nwho name-2SG FOC 2SG:FOC\n\n‘What is your name?’ (Lit: ‘Who is your name?’)\n\nInterrogative morphemes are frequently preceded by the disjunctive particle na;\n\n\"na vea ke\" ‘why?’\n\n\"na sa\" ‘what?’\n\nComplex sentences\n\nCoordination\n\nCoordination is marked by a conjunction between the two clauses; the conjunction belongs with the second clause;\n\n\"ba\" ‘but’\n\n\"ke\" ‘so, thus’\n\n\"me(ke)\" 'and' > me is far more common in texts\n\n\"na\" 'or'\n\n\"pude\" 'purposive'\n\n\"tiqe\" 'then'\n\n\"Gina tourism kamahire kote sage mae ba lopu ta-gilana.\"\n\nmaybe tourism now FUT go.up come but NEG PASS-know\n\n‘Maybe tourism will pick up, but we don’t know.’\n\n-Subordination-\n\nThree major classes are relative clauses, complement clauses and adverbial clauses.\n\nRelative clauses\n\nRelative clauses follow the head N and are introduced by the invariant relative clause marker sapu. They may only be formed on A, S and O and on the argument nominal of a verbless clause. More detailed explanation is below.\n\nComplement clauses\n\nComplement clauses are introduced by the subordinator sapu; otherwise, no different from the main clauses.\nComplement clauses occur after Vs of cognition, speech or perception, whereas subordinate clauses (with the exception of relative clauses) occur in focus position;\n\n\"Lopu hiva-ni-a ri sapu tangin-i-a rau sa vineki.\"\n\nNEG like-TR-3SG 3PL C hold-TR-3SG 1SG DEF girl\n\n‘They didn’t like me holding the girl.’ (Lit: ‘They didn’t like it, that I was holding the girl.’)\n\nComplement clauses are considered to be intermediate between main and subordinate clauses. In texts, complement clauses in Roviana are rare. Direct quotation is more frequent than subordination to higher predicates of information, while epistemic modals (e.g. gina ‘maybe’, tu ‘EMPH) are often used rather than subordination to higher predicates of cognition. (ergativity)\n\nAdverbial clauses\n\nAdverbial clauses occur in focus position and never contain new mentions in core argument positions. They are introduced by a subordinator and followed by the focal particle si, a consequence of being in focus position;\n\n\"beto\" 'after'\n\n\"pude\" 'if'\n\n\"totoso\" 'while, when'\n\n\"Ke beto vagi ri sarina avoso si la buna-i-a ri sa vasina asa.\"\n\nso after gather 3PL DEF:PL know FOC go bomb-TR-3SG 3PL DEF place that\n\n‘So after they had gathered all the information, they went and bombed that place.’\n\nSubordination is extremely limited in Roviana. Subordinate clauses never contain other subordinate clauses, nor do they contain relative clauses. Similarly, relative clauses do not contain either subordinate clauses or relative clauses.\n\nErgativity\n\nThe subject of an intransitive verb has the same morphological marker as a direct object, and a different morphological marker from the subject of a transitive V.\n\nA- transitive subject, O- transitive direct object, S- intransitive subject respectively.\n\nWhether Roviana is an ergative language or not is argumentative, however, relative clauses in this language can be categorised by ergativity, so it can be described as an ergative language.\n\n-Relative clauses-\n\nRelative clauses in Roviana follow the head N and are introduced by an invariant relative marker sapu. The coreferent of the N in the matrix clause is never overt within the relative clause. This feature may be according to whether the notional coreferent within the relative clause is A, S or O.\n\nRelative clauses on A\n\nRelative clauses on A use clausal nominalisation. The notional A has no overt realisation. The nominalised verb in a relative clause on A carries a suffix ‘NSUF’, which is also used to index the possessor in possessives;\n\n\"sa huda noma-na\"\n\nDEF tree big-3SG.NSUF\n\n‘the big tree’\n\nWhen the O in the relative clause is a proper N, it is marked with the article e;\n\n\"Hierana sa koreo sapu tupa-na e Zone.\"\n\nthis DEF boy REL punch-3SG.NSUF ART John\n\n‘This is the boy that punched John.’\n\nRelative clauses on S\n\nGiven that the coreferent in the relative clause does not have overt realisation;\n\n\"Hierana sa tie sapu kote taloa.\"\n\nthis DEF man REL FUT leave\n\n‘This is the man who is going away.’\n\nRelative clauses on O\n\nIn relative clauses on O, A is overt in the relative clause and full verbal morphology is used to index the O. The nominal suffixes are not used in relative clauses on O;\n\n\"Hierana sa koreo sapu tupa-i-a e Zone.\"\n\nthis DEF boy REL punch-TR-3SG.DO ART John\n\n‘This is the boy that John punched.’\n\nIn the context of a relative clause which is by definition subordinate, e is glossed simply ART, since it is used with proper Ns which are A or O. These following two examples have got e; the first one is on A whereas the second one is on O.\n\n\"Hierana sa koreo sapu tupa-na e Zone.\"\n\nthis DEF boy REL punch-3SG.NSUF ART John\n\n‘This is the boy that punched John.’\n\n\"Hierana sa koreo sapu tupa-i-a e Zone.\"\n\nthis DEF boy REL punch-TR-3SG.DO ART John\n\n‘This is the boy that John punched.’\n\n-‘WHEN’ clauses-\n\n‘When’ clauses are introduced by the subordinator totoso ‘time’ or the syncopated form totso, but they do not specify the precise nature of the temporal relation involved;\n\n\"Totso koa goi pa korapa tropic si kaqu pezaku lamo si goi.\"\n\ntime stay you.SG PREP inside tropic FOC must wash.hands always ABS you.SG\n\n‘When you stay in the tropics, you must always wash your hands.’\n\n-‘AFTER’ clauses-\n\nThe event of an ‘after’ clause is introduced by the subordinator beto ‘finish’ and temporally precedes the event of the matrix clause to which it is syntactically subordinate;\n\n\"Ke beto vagiri sarina avoso si 1a buna-i-a ri sa \"\n\nso finish gather they DEF.PL know FOC go bomb-TR-3SG.DO they.ERG DEF\n\n\"vasina asa.\"\n\nplace that\n\n‘So after they had gathered all the information, they went and bombed that place.’\n\n-‘CONTEMPORANEOUS’ clauses-\n\n‘Contemporaneous’ clauses have imperfective aspect, usually accompanied by reduplication of the verb, with the meaning ‘While …-ing’ or ‘As …-ing’;\n\n\"En-ene ri la hoirana si tutuvi-a ri se Manue.\"\n\nDUP-walk they go there FOC meet-3SG.DO they.ERG ABS Possum\n\n‘As they were walking along, they met Possum.’\n\n-Conditionals-\n\nIn a conditional, the protasis is a subordinate clause. As with the subordinate clauses, there is a neutral system of case marking;\n\n\"...ba pude gore vura mae sa si kote taloa si rau.\"\n\nbut if go.down come.out come it FOC FUT leave ABS I\n\n‘...but if it works out, I'll leave.’\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39795418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39795418", "title": "Rural People's Movement", "text": "Rural People's Movement\n\nThe Rural People's Movement (\"Landvolkbewegung\") was a farmers' protest movement in northern Germany from 1928 to 1933. Due to an agricultural crisis, demonstrations took place in numerous towns and cities in early 1928, and deputations were sent to Berlin to voice grievances against trade and tax policies. Farmers' continuing financial difficulties and dissatisfaction with their own lobby organizations led to more radical protests, especially in the province of Schleswig-Holstein, from late 1928. Passive resistance included tax strikes and the obstruction of foreclosures, but some farmers, with the assistance of nationalist radicals, resorted to terrorist methods. Throughout 1929 bombs were placed in public buildings, including the Reichstag. The Rural People's Movement ran its own newspaper \"Das Landvolk\" which was edited by Bruno von Salomon, the brother of Ernst von Salomon. With the arrest of the bombers and many of its leaders, as well as the rise of the Nazi Party, the Landvolk declined from 1930.\n\nHans Fallada's first successful novel, \"A Small Circus \"(\"Bauern, Bonzen und Bomben\"), was based on the farmers' protests, especially a demonstration and boycott of the town of Neumünster.\n\n"}
{"id": "1801235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1801235", "title": "Russians in the Baltic states", "text": "Russians in the Baltic states\n\nRussians in the Baltic states describes self-identifying ethnic Russians and other primary Russian-speaking communities in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, commonly referred to collectively as the Baltic states. In 2017, there were 0.9 million ethnic Russians in the Baltic States, having declined from 1.7 million in 1989, the year of the last census during the Soviet era.\n\nMost of the present-day Baltic Russians are migrants from the Soviet era and their descendants, though a relatively small fraction of them can trace their ancestry in the area back to previous centuries.\n\nAccording to official statistics, in 1920, ethnic Russians (most of them residing there from the times of the Russian Empire) made up 7.82% of the population in independent Latvia, growing to 10.5% in 1935. The share of ethnic Russians in the population of independent Estonia was about 8.2%, of which about half were indigenous Russians living in the areas in and around Pechory and Izborsk which were added to Estonian territory according to the 1920 Estonian-Soviet Peace Treaty of Tartu, but were transferred to the Russian SFSR by the Soviet authorities in 1945. The share of ethnic Russians in independent Lithuania (not including the Vilnius region, then annexed by Poland) was even smaller, about 2.5%.\n\nFollowing the terms of the 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, the Soviet Union invaded and occupied and subsequently annexed Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania as Soviet republics in 1940. Germany invaded and occupied the Baltic states in 1941 a week after the first Soviet-conducted mass deportation. Communist party members who had arrived in the area with the initial annexation in 1940 and the puppet regimes established evacuated to other parts of the Soviet Union; those who fell into German hands were treated harshly or murdered. The Soviet Union reoccupied the Baltic states in 1944–1945 as the war drew to a close.\n\nImmediately after the war, a major influx from other USSR republics primarily of ethnic Russians took place in the Baltic states as part of a \"de facto\" process of Russification. These new migrants supported the industrialization of Latvia's economy. Most were factory and construction workers who settled in major urban areas. The influx included the establishment of military bases and associated personnel with the Baltic states now comprising the USSR's \"de facto\" western frontier bordering the Baltic Sea. Many military chose to remain upon retirement, attracted by higher living standards as compared to the rest of the USSR. This led to bitter disputes with Russia regarding the issue of their military pensions after the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\nAfter Stalin's death in 1953, the flow of new migrants to the Lithuanian SSR slowed down, owing to different policies on urbanization, economy and other issues than pursued in the Latvian SSR and the Estonian SSR. However, the flow of immigrants did not stop entirely in Lithuania, and there were further waves of Russian workers who came to work on major construction projects, such as power plants.\n\nIn Latvia and Estonia, less was done to slow down Russian immigration. By the 1980s Russians made up about third of the population in Estonia, while in Latvia, ethnic Latvians made up only about half of the population. In contrast, in 1989 only 9.4% of Lithuania's population were Russians.\n\nScholars in international law have noted that \"in accordance with Article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, the settlement of Russians in the Baltic States during the period was illegal under international law\" (\"The Occupying Power shall not deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies\"). The convention was adopted in 1949, including by the Soviet Union. However, as the Soviet Union maintained the Baltic States joined the USSR voluntarily, it did not consider the convention applicable to the Baltic states.\n\nContinuing the position of their legations or governments in exile, and based on international law and treaties in effect at the time of initial Soviet occupation, the Baltic states view the Soviet presence in the Baltic states as an illegal occupation for its full duration. This continuity of the Baltic states with their first period of independence has been used to re-adopt pre-World War II laws, constitutions, and treaties and to formulate new policies, including in the areas of citizenship and language.\n\nSome of the Baltic Russians, mainly those who had come to live in the region not long before the three countries regained independence in 1991, remigrated to Russia and other ex-Soviet countries in the early 1990s. Lithuania, which had been influenced by immigration the least, granted citizenship automatically. In Latvia and Estonia, those who had no family ties to Latvia prior to World War II did not receive automatic citizenship. Those that failed to request Russian citizenship during the time window it was offered were granted permanent residency \"non-citizen\" status. (see \"Citizenship\" section).\n\nLithuanian Russians live mainly in cities. In the Lithuanian capital Vilnius, they make up 12% of the population, in Lithuania's third largest city Klaipėda no more than 19%. Other Lithuanian cities, including the second-largest city Kaunas, have lower percentages of Russians, while in most small towns and villages there are very few Russians (with the exception of Visaginas). In all, 4.9% of Lithuania's population are ethnic Russians.\n\nRussians make up almost a half of the population of Latvia's capital, Riga. In the second largest city Daugavpils, where already before World War I Russians were the second biggest ethnic group after Jews, Russians now make up the majority. Today about 27.6% of Latvia's population are ethnic Russians.\n\nIn Estonia, Russians are concentrated in urban areas, particularly in Tallinn and the north-eastern county of Ida-Virumaa. As of 2011, 38.5% of Tallinn's population were ethnic Russians and an even higher number – 46.7% spoke Russian as their mother tongue. In 2011, large proportions of ethnic Russians were found in Narva (82.02%), Sillamäe (about 82%) and Kohtla-Järve (69.68%). In the second largest city of Estonia – Tartu – ethnic Russians constitute about 16% of the population. In rural areas the proportion of ethnic Russians is very low (13 of Estonia's 15 counties are over 80% ethnic Estonian). Overall, ethnic Russians make up 24% of Estonia's population (the proportion of Russophones is, however, somewhat higher, because Russian is the mother tongue of many ethnic Ukrainians, Belarusians and Jews who live in the country).\n\nDemand for industrial workers drew Russians to settle in larger cities. In all three countries, the rural settlements are inhabited almost entirely by the main national ethnic groups, except some areas in eastern Estonia and Latvia with a longer history of Russian and mixed villages. The Lithuanian city of Visaginas was built for workers at the Ignalina nuclear power plant and therefore has a Russian majority. A 2014 study found that many Russians identified with the place where they lived.\n\nAfter the accession of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania to the European Union on 1 May 2004, many Baltic Russians moved to other EU countries. In particular, tens of thousands of Baltic Russians (especially those with EU citizenship) moved to the United Kingdom and to Ireland, who were the first 'old' EU countries to open up their labour markets to the new members of the EU. Thousands of Russians from Riga, Tallinn and Vilnius, holding EU passports, now live in London, Dublin and other cities in the UK and Ireland. They make up a substantial part of the Russian-speaking community in London. No reliable statistics on their exact numbers exist, as in the UK they are counted as nationals of the Baltic countries, and not as Russians.\n\nIn 2012, Dimitri Medvedev issued a repatriation program designed to resettle ethnic Russians from abroad. So far 10,000 families have settled in the Russian Federation, mostly to Pskov Oblast.\n\nAfter regaining independence in 1991, Latvia and Estonia restored the pre-1940 citizenship laws on the basis of the legal continuity of their statehood throughout 1940 – 1991, automatically recognising citizenship according to the principle of \"jus sanguinis\" for the persons who held citizenship before 16 June 1940 and their descendants. Most of those who had settled on the territory of these republics after their incorporation by the USSR of these states by the USSR in 1940 and their descendants received the right to obtain citizenship through naturalisation procedure, but were not granted citizenship automatically. This policy affected not only ethnic Russians, but also the descendants of those ethnic Estonians and Latvians who emigrated from these countries before independence was proclaimed in 1918. Dual citizenship is also not allowed, except for those who acquired citizenship by birth.\n\nKnowledge of the respective official language and in some cases the Constitution and/or history and an oath of loyalty to established constitutional order was set as a condition for obtaining citizenship through naturalisation. However, the purported difficulty of the initial language tests became a point of international contention, as the government of Russia, the Council of Europe, and several human rights organizations claiming that they made it impossible for many older Russians who grew up in the Baltic region to gain citizenship. As a result, the tests were altered, but a large percentage of Russians in Latvia and Estonia still have non-citizen or alien status. Those who have not applied for citizenship feel they are regarded with suspicion, under the perception that they are deliberately avoiding naturalisation. For many, an important reason not to apply for citizenship is the fact that Russia gives non-citizens preferential treatment: they are free to work or visit relatives in Russia. The citizens of the Baltic states must apply for visas.\n\nThe language issue is still contentious, particularly in Latvia, where there were protests against plans to require at least 60% of lessons in state-funded Russian-language high schools to be taught in Latvian (in the first version of the Law on education this was 100%).\n\nIn contrast, Lithuania granted citizenship to all its residents at the time of independence redeclaration day willing to have it, without requiring them to learn Lithuanian. Probably the main reason that Lithuania took a less restrictive approach than Latvia and Estonia is that whereas in Latvia ethnic Latvians comprised only a small majority of the total population, and in Estonia ethnic Estonians comprised about 70 percent, in Lithuania ethnic Lithuanians were about 80 percent of the population. Therefore, as a matter of voting in national elections or referendums, the opinions of ethnic Lithuanians would likely carry the day if there were a difference in opinion between Lithuanians and the larger minority groups (Russians and Poles), but this was less certain in the other two Baltic countries, especially in Latvia.\n\nSome representatives of the ethnic Russian communities in Latvia and Estonia have claimed discrimination by the authorities, these calls frequently being supported by Russia. On the other hand, Latvia and Estonia deny discrimination charges and often accuse Russia of using the issue for political purposes. In recent years, as the Russian political leaders have begun to speak about the \"former Soviet space\" as their sphere of influence, such claims are a source of annoyance, if not alarm, in the Baltic countries.\n\nEstonia, Latvia and Lithuania have since 2004 become members of NATO and the European Union (EU) to provide a counterbalance to Russia's claims to speak for the interests of ethnic Russian residents of these countries. Furthermore, to satisfy a precondition for their admission to the EU, both Estonia and Latvia slightly adjusted their citizenship policies in response to EU monitoring and requests. Claims of discrimination in basic rights by Russians and other minorities in the region may have less effect now than they did during the years when the Baltic countries' membership applications were still pending with the EU.\n\nThere are a number of political parties and politicians in the Baltic states who claim to represent the Russian-speaking minority. These parties support Russian language rights, demand citizenship for all long-term residents of Latvia and Estonia and tend to be left-wing on other issues. These forces are particularly strong in Latvia represented by the Latvian Russian Union which has one seat in the European parliament held by Tatjana Ždanoka and the more moderate Harmony party which is currently the largest faction in the Saeima with 24 out of 100 deputies, the party of the current Mayor of Riga Nils Ušakovs and with one representative in the European parliament currently Andrejs Mamikins. In Estonia there is similarly the Estonian United Left Party however that party is not represented in the Riigikogu and the Estonian Centre Party is overwhelmingly the most favoured party among Estonian Russians. This is in part because of its co-operation agreement with United Russia, its advocacy of friendlier ties with the Russian government compared to other mainstream Estonian parties and the prevalence Russians and Russophones among the party's municipal councilors and parliamentarians.\n\nIn 2011 pro-Russian groups in Latvia collected sufficient signatures to initiate the process of amending the Constitution to give Russian the status of an official language. On 18 February 2012, constitutional referendum on whether to adopt Russian as a second official language was held. According to the Central Election Commission, 74.8% voted against, 24.9% voted for and the voter turnout was 71.1%. The non-citizen community (290,660 or 14.1% of Latvia's entire population) was non entitled to vote.\n\nFamous modern Baltic Russians include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30823092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30823092", "title": "Scott Newman (politician)", "text": "Scott Newman (politician)\n\nScott J. Newman (born January 14, 1947) is a Minnesota attorney and a Republican member of the Minnesota Senate. He represents Senate District 18, which includes portions of McLeod, Meeker, Sibley and Wright counties just west of the Twin Cities metropolitan area. He is a former member of the Minnesota House of Representatives and was the Republican nominee for attorney general in the 2014 election.\n\nNewman graduated from Minnesota State University, Mankato in Mankato, receiving his B.A. in history and political science. He later earned his J.D. from William Mitchell College of Law in Saint Paul.\n\nHe previously worked as a deputy sheriff in Hennepin County, as a public defender, and as an administrative law judge.\n\nNewman served in the Minnesota House of Representatives from 2004 to 2007, running in a 2003 special election after Rep. Tony Kielkucki resigned to accept an appointment as a deputy secretary of state. While in the House, he served on the Education Finance, the Education Policy, the Governmental Operations and Veterans Affairs Policy, the State Government Finance, the Ethics, the Public Safety Policy and Finance, and the Transportation committees.\n\nNewman was first elected to the Senate in 2010, running after longtime incumbent Senator Steve Dille announced he would not seek re-election. Newman was re-elected in 2012 and 2016. He currently serves as chairman of the Senate Transportation Finance and Policy Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "53733087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53733087", "title": "Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver Model of Communication", "text": "Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver Model of Communication\n\nIn 1960, David Berlo expanded Shannon and Weaver's linear model of communication and created the Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver (SMCR) Model of Communication, which separated the model into clear parts and has been expanded upon by other scholars. Berlo described factors affecting the individual components in the communication making the communication more efficient.\n\nThe Berlo’s Model of Communication has developed from Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver’s mathematical model, which was first published in “Bell System Technical Journal” in 1948. The model was primary designed to improve the technical communication, but was later widely applied in different fields of communication. According to the Shannon-Weaver Model, communication includes the following concepts: sender, encoder, channel, decoder, receiver and feedback. Furthermore, there is also concept of “noise”, which affects the communication process going through the channel and makes the message more difficult to understand by the receiver. Each of those concepts are defined as follows:\nSender: the originator of message.\nEncoder: the transmitter which converts the message into signals (the way message is changed into signals, for example sound waves).\nDecoder: the reception place of the signal which converts signals into message. Decoding is done by the receiver when he gets the message.\nReceiver: the recipient of the message from the sender. He usually gives feedback to the sender in order to make sure that the message was properly received.\nNoise: the message is transferred through a channel, which can be interrupted by external noise like horn sounds, thunder and crowd noise. Thus, the receiver can get an inaccurate message. This is why feedback from the receiver is important in case the message is not properly received. Furthermore, the noise can also affect the decoding of the message by the receiver.\nPractical Example of Shannon-Weaver model of communication : \nThomson made call to his assistant “come here I want to see you”. During his call, noise appeared (transmission error) and his assistant received “I want” only. Again Assistant asked Thomson (feedback) “what do you want Thomson”.\nBerlo's Model was first published in 1960 in the book entitled El Proceso de la Comunicación or the process of communication. The model includes four components to describe the communication process: sender, message, channel and receiver, each of the them are affected by many factors. The model also focuses on encoding and decoding, which happens before sender sends the message and before receiver receives the message respectively.\n\nThe main feature from the previous Shannon-Weaver model is the focus on the purpose and objectives of communication. Berlo's model also includes verbal and non-verbal communications, it considers the emotional aspects of the message.\n\nDavid Berlo's Model of Communication explains the various components in the communication process. The four basic components are sender (or source), message, channel and receiver.\n\nSender is the source of the message or the person who originates the message and sends it to the receiver. The sender transfers the information by using following factors: \nAn individual must possess excellent communication skills to make his communication effective and create an impact on the listeners. He should know how to speak and how pronounce a word correctly, where to take pauses and where to repeat and so on. Similarly, to the receiver. If he can not understand the message, the communication will be ineffective. \nThe attitude of the sender and the receiver effects of the message. The person's attitude towardsl the receiver and the environment changes the meaning and effect of the message.\nIn this context knowledge is not the level of education. It is the clarity of the information which sender wants to convey to the receiver. Familiarity with the subject of the message makes it easier to understand it.\nValues, beliefs, religion, laws, rules and general understanding of society affect the sender's way of communicating the message.\nCulture refers to the cultural background of the sender or receiver.\n\nThe step of creating a message (also called encoding) is the transformation of thoughts into words that sender sends to receiver. It can be in the form of voice, audio, text, video or other media. Any message comprises the following elements:\n\nChannel refers to the medium used to send the message. In mass communication technical machines might be used as a channel like telephone, internet, etc. But in general communication, the five senses of a human being is the channel for the communication flow and it affects the effectiveness of the channel:\n\nReceiver is the person who gets the message and tries to understand what the sender actually wants to convey and then responds accordingly. This is also called as decoding. Berlo's model believes that the effective communication can be achieved if the sender and the receiver are on the same level. The message might not have the same effect as intended if the receiver and sender are not similar.\n\nThe receiver must also have a very good listening skill. Other factors are similar to that of the sender:\n\nBerlo's model was further developed in 1973 by W. Schramm, who used relational model instead of linear. Schramm also used the effects and effects analysis components from Berlo's model and suggested Interaction component in relation with active, selective and manipulative audience. He argued that the most dramatic change in the communication theory in the last 40 years has been the abandonment of the idea of passive audience. Audience is a full partner in the process of communication.\n"}
{"id": "179032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179032", "title": "Standard German", "text": "Standard German\n\nStandard German, High German, or more precisely Standard High German, (, , or in Swiss Standard German ), is the standardized variety of the German language used in formal contexts, and for communication between different dialect areas. It is a pluricentric Dachsprache with three codified (or \"standardized\") specific regional variants: German Standard German, Austrian Standard German, and Swiss Standard German.\n\nRegarding the spelling and punctuation, a recommended standard is published by the Council for German Orthography (formed in 2004) which represents the governments of all majority and minority German-speaking countries and dependencies. Adherence is obligatory not for everyday use but for government institutions including schools. For pronunciation, there is no official standards body but there is a long-standing \"de facto\" standard pronunciation (\"Bühnendeutsch\"), most commonly used in formal speech and teaching materials; it is similar to the formal German spoken in and around Hanover. Adherence to those standards by private individuals and companies, including the print and audio-visual media, is voluntary but widespread.\n\nStandard German originated not as a traditional dialect of a specific region, but as a written language, developed over a process of several hundred years, in which writers tried to write in a way that was understood in the largest area. Until about 1800, Standard German was almost entirely a written language. In this time, people in Northern Germany who mainly spoke Low Saxon languages very different from Standard German learned it as a foreign language. However, later the Northern pronunciation (of Standard German) was considered standard and spread southward; in some regions (such as around Hanover) the local dialect has completely died out with the exception of small communities of Low German speakers. It is thus the spread of Standard German as a language taught at school that defines the German \"Sprachraum\", i.e. a political decision rather than a direct consequence of dialect geography, allowing areas with dialects of very limited mutual comprehensibility to participate in the same cultural sphere. Currently, local dialects are used mainly in informal situations or at home and also in dialect literature, and more recently a resurgence of German dialects has appeared in mass media.\n\nIn German linguistics, only the traditional regional varieties of German are called dialects, not the different varieties of standard German. The latter are known as \"Umgangssprachen\" and in the territory of Germany began to replace the traditional dialects beginning in the nineteenth century. They constitute a mixture of old dialectal elements with Standard German.\n\nIn German, Standard German is often called , a somewhat misleading term since it conflicts with the linguistic term High German. High German of the southern uplands and the Alps (including Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and parts of northern Italy as well as southern Germany) contrasts with Low German spoken in the lowlands stretching towards the North Sea. To avoid this confusion, some refer to Standard German as (\"standard German\"), (\"German standard language\"), or if the context of the German language is clear, simply (\"standard language\"). However, the word \"standard\" downgrades the linguistic position of the daily language spoken in Switzerland and Austria, and people there often prefer \"Hochdeutsch\" or \"High German\" as it is less aggressive towards Swiss Standard German and Austrian German.\n\nStandard German differs regionally. The most accepted distinction is between different national varieties of standard German: Austrian Standard German, German Standard German and Swiss Standard German. Additionally, there are linguists who posit that there are different varieties of standard German within Germany. Linguistic research of the different varieties of standard German began for the most part only in the 1990s, especially in Austria and Switzerland. During the existence of the German Democratic Republic, there were occasional studies about whether there were differences between the standard varieties of the German Democratic Republic and the Federal Republic. The German federal state of Bavaria has promoted language diversity in the past in an effort to preserve its distinct culture.\n\nThe different varieties of standard German (Austrian, Swiss, and Germany Standard) differ only in a few features, especially in vocabulary and pronunciation, but even in some instances of grammar and orthography. In the written language, it may be hard or even impossible to tell what variety of standard German has been used, though in the spoken language, the different varieties of standard German are easily recognized by most speakers.\n\nThe variation of the standard German varieties must not be confused with the variation of the local German dialects. Even though the standard German varieties are to a certain degree influenced by the local dialects, they are very distinct. All varieties of standard German are based on the common tradition of the written German language, whereas the local dialects have their own historical roots that go further back than the unification of the written language and in the case of Low German belong to a different language entirely.\n\nIn most regions, the speakers use a continuum of mixtures from more dialectical varieties to more standard varieties according to situation. However, there are two (or three) exceptions:\n\n\nWhile there is no officially recommended standard, and multiple regional variants are considered correct, there does exist a standardised accent which is generally used in radio and television as well as in German learning materials for non-natives, and to varying degrees by language teachers. This accent is documented in reference works such as \"Deutsches Aussprachewörterbuch\" (German Pronunciation Dictionary) by Eva-Maria Krech et al., \"Duden 6 Das Aussprachewörterbuch\" (Duden volume 6, The Pronunciation Dictionary) by Max Mangold and the training materials at the \"Westdeutscher Rundfunk\" (West German Broadcasting) and \"Deutschlandfunk\" (Radio Germany). It is an invented accent rather than radiating from any particular German-speaking city, but it is closest to the German spoken in Hanover.\n\nA first standardization, although non-prescriptive, of Early Modern High German was introduced by the Luther Bible of 1534. In consequence, the written language of the chancery of Saxony-Wittenberg rose in importance in the course of the 17th century, and the 1665 revision of the Zürich Bible abandoned its Alemannic-based idiom in favour of this standard.\n\nThe First Orthographical Conference was called in 1876 by the government of Prussia.\n\nKonrad Duden published the first edition of his dictionary, later simply known as the \"Duden\", in 1880. The first spelling reform, based on Duden's work, came into effect in 1901. The orthographical standards predating 1901 are now known as \"classical orthography\" (\"Klassische deutsche Rechtschreibung\"), while the conventions in effect from 1901 to 1998 are summarized as \"old orthography\" (\"Alte deutsche Rechtschreibung\"). In 1944 there was a failed attempt at another reform; this was delayed on the order of Hitler and not taken up again after the end of World War II. In the following decades German spelling was essentially decided \"de facto\" by the editors of the Duden dictionaries. After the war, this tradition was followed with two different centers: Mannheim in West Germany and Leipzig in East Germany. By the early 1950s, a few other publishing houses had begun to attack the Duden monopoly in the West by publishing their own dictionaries, which did not always conform to the \"official\" spellings prescribed by Duden. In response, the Ministers of Culture of the federal states in West Germany officially declared the Duden spellings to be binding as of November 1955.\n\nThe 1996 spelling reform was based on an international agreement signed by the governments of the German-speaking countries Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein, and Switzerland; but acceptance of the reform was limited. While, , most German print media followed the reform, some newspapers, such as \"Die Zeit\", \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\" and \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", created their own in-house orthographies.\n\nIn 2006, there was a further revision of the spelling reform because there were disagreements about capitalisation and splitting of German words. Also revised were the rules governing punctuation marks.\n\n"}
{"id": "32560757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32560757", "title": "Tagdal language", "text": "Tagdal language\n\nTagdal (Tuareg name: \"Tagdalt\") is a mixed Northern Songhay language of central Niger. \"Ethnologue\" considers it a \"mixed Berber–Songhay language\", while other researchers consider it Northern Songhay. About half of its daily vocabulary is Tuareg, and three quarters overall. There are two dialects: Tagdal proper, spoken by the Igdalen people, pastoralists who inhabit a region to the east along the Niger border to Tahoua in Niger, and Tabarog, spoken by the Iberogan people of the Azawagh valley on the Niger–Mali border.\n\nNicolaï (1981) uses the name \"Tihishit\" as a cover term. Rueck & Christiansen say that\n\n...the Igdalen and the Iberogan have for many purposes been treated as one group, and their speech forms are closely related. Nicolaï uses \"tihishit\" as a common designator for these two speech forms...; however, this term is ambiguous. \"Tihishit\" is a term of Tamajaq origin meaning \"the language of the blacks\". The Igdalen and Iberogan used it to refer to all Northern Songhay speech forms.\n\nMeanwhile, the Iberogan sometimes refer to their language as Tagdal.\n\nTagdal is an agglutinative language, most likely due to Tuareg influence.\n\nTagdal gets its pronominal system from Northern Songhay languages.\n\nSubject prefixes:\nTadgal has two different prefixes used for negation. The first is \"nɘ\"-, which functions as perfective negation, and is the default choice for negation. It indicates something that might have happened in the past, but didn't, or in the case of stative verbs, something that is not true. The other negation prefix is \"sɘ\"-, which acts as a negation in the present or future. Uses of this negation are shown in these examples:\n\n\"ɣɑnɘkoy\": I did not go\n\n\"ɣɑsɘbkoy\": I was not going/I do not (habitually) go\n\n\"ɣɑnəyɑrdɑ\": I disagree\n"}
{"id": "37646421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37646421", "title": "Timeline of cannabis laws in the United States", "text": "Timeline of cannabis laws in the United States\n\nThe legal history of cannabis in the United States began with state-level prohibition in the early 20th century, with the first major federal limitations occurring in 1937. Starting with Oregon in 1973, individual states began to liberalize cannabis laws through decriminalization. In 1996, California became the first state to legalize medical cannabis, sparking a trend that spread to a majority of states by 2016. In 2012, Colorado and Washington became the first states to legalize cannabis for recreational use.\n\n\nProhibition begins - 1911\n\n\nDecriminalization begins - 1973\n\n\nMedical cannabis begins - 1996\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39171623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39171623", "title": "Timeline of women rabbis in the United States", "text": "Timeline of women rabbis in the United States\n\nThis is a timeline of women rabbis in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8565657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8565657", "title": "Torghut", "text": "Torghut\n\nThe Torghut (Mongolian: Торгууд/Torguud, \"Guardsman\" or \"the Silks\") are one of the four major subgroups of the Four Oirats. The Torghut nobles traced its descent to the Keraite ruler Tooril also many Torghuts descended from the Keraites.\n\nThey might have been kheshigs of the Great Khans before Kublai Khan. The Torghut clan first appeared as an Oirat group in the mid-16th century. After the collapse of the Four Oirat Alliance, the majority of the Torghuts under Kho Orluk separated from other Oirat groups and moved west to the Volga region in 1630, forming the core of the Kalmyks. A few Torghut nobles followed Toro Baikhu Gushi Khan to Qinghai Lake (Koke Nuur), becoming part of the so-called Upper Mongols. In 1698, 500 Torghuts went on pilgrimage to Tibet but were unable to return. Hence, they were resettled in Ejin River by the Kangxi Emperor of China's Qing dynasty. In 1699 15,000 Torghut households returned from the Volga region to Dzungaria where they joined the Khoits. After the fall of the Dzungar Khanate, one of their princes, Taiji Shyiren, fled west to the Volga region with 10,000 families in 1758. The name Torghut probably originates from the Mongolian word \"torog\" meaning \"silk.\"\n\nDue to harsh treatment by Russian governors, most Torghuts eventually migrated back to Dzungaria and western Mongolia, departing en masse on January 5, 1771. While the first phase of their movement became the Old Torghuts, the Qing called the later Torghut immigrants \"New Torghut\". The size of the departing group has been variously estimated between 150,000 and 400,000 people, with perhaps as many as six million animals (cattle, sheep, horses, camels and dogs). Beset by raids, thirst and starvation, approximately 85,000 survivors made it to Dzungaria, where they settled near the Ejin River with the permission of the Qing Emperor. The Torghuts were coerced by the Qing into giving up their nomadic lifestyle and to take up sedentary agriculture instead as part of a deliberate policy by the Qing to enfeeble them.\n\nThe Kalmuks on the river Tekes had not sent the assistance demanded by the Governor, being angry that he had not assisted them when they had been attacked a few months before by the Kara-Kirghiz. At last, however, when their great temple on the Ili had been plundered by the Dungans, their Lama excited them to revenge. They therefore marched down to near Ili and signally defeated the insurgents, who after that dared no longer show themselves in the vicinity. The harvest was now ripe, and the grain was greatly needed by the suffering garrison and town population, but no one dared to reap it for fear of the Dungans. The Governor therefore ordered the Kalmuks to gather the harvest, but, as they were nomads who despised agriculture, they refused, and when threats were offered, they all decamped, and no persuasions could bring them back. After their departure the Dungans immediately resumed operations. Of the frightful position of affairs in the fortress, we learn something from Colonel Reinthal, who was there in July and September 1865, to obtain information on the position. It is much to be regretted that the Russian Government did not act upon the information contained in his reports, and either give some active support to the Chinese authorities, or itself occupy the country to prevent bloodshed. The scarcity of provisions in Ili became such that the Governor at last saw himself obliged to dismiss his last auxiliaries, the Thagor Kalmuks. In the meantime both Solons and Sibos were being attacked and plundered, and were obliged to make peace with the insurgents, so that only Ili, Khorgos, Losigun, and Suidun, remained in the hands of the Mantchus. Ili was now entirely surrounded, and it was resolved to reduce it by famine.\n\nA group of around 70,000 Torghuts were left behind in Russia, since (according to legend) the Volga River was not frozen and they could not cross it to join their comrades. This group became known as the Kalmyk, or \"remnant\", although the name may predate these events. However, Muslims called the Kalmyks before. In any case, the remnant population doubling their numbers by 1930. Torghut-Kalmyk archers under the command of the notable Russian general Mikhail Kutuzov clashed with the French army of the legendary Napoleon in 1812. In 1906, the Qing put western Mongolia's New Torghuts under the Altai district. One New Torghut prince opposed independence in Mongolia and fled to Xinjiang in 1911-12. However, the others were reincorporated into Mongolia's far western Khovd Province.\n\nTorghut forces assisted the Russians in the Soviet Invasion of Xinjiang.\n\nToday, Torghut descendants number more than 150,000 in Xinjiang, China and more than 10,000 in Khovd Province, Mongolia. There are around 170,000 Kalmyks in Russia.\n\nAn exhibition in memorial to the Torghut exodus from the Volga to the Qing Empire is found at the Potala Palace, Chengde.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54466320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54466320", "title": "Tulama Oromo people", "text": "Tulama Oromo people\n\nThe Tulama Oromo people are an Oromo subgroup inhabiting the region surrounding Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia. The Tulama Oromo are agriculturalists and follow the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "16084536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16084536", "title": "Women in Russia", "text": "Women in Russia\n\nWomen in Russian society have a rich and varied history during numerous regimes throughout the centuries. It is important to note that since Russia is a multicultural society, the experiences of women in Russia vary significantly across ethnic, racial, religious, and social lines. The life of an ethnic Russian woman can be dramatically different from the life of a Bashkir, Chechen, or Yakuts (Sakha) woman; just as the life of a woman from a lower-class rural family can be different from the life of a woman from an upper-middle-class urban family. Nevertheless, a common historical and political context provides a room for speaking about women in Russia in general.\n\nArchaeological evidence suggests that the present day territory of Russia was inhabited since prehistoric times: 1.5-million-year-old Oldowan flint tools were discovered in the Dagestan Akusha region of the north Caucasus, demonstrating the presence of early humans in Russia from a very early time. The direct ancestors of Russians are the Eastern Slavs and the Finno-Ugric peoples. For most of the 20th century, the history of Russia is essentially that of the Soviet Union. Its fall in 1991 led, as in most of the former communist bloc countries of Eastern Europe, to an economic collapse and other social problems. \n\nWomen in Russia are not a monolithic group, because the country itself is very diverse: there are almost 200 national/ethnic groups in Russia (77.7% being Russians - as of 2010), and although most of the population is (at least nominally) Christian Orthodox, other religions are present too, such as Islam (approximately 6% - see Islam in Russia). \n\nFamous women in Russian history include Anna of Russia, Elizabeth of Russia, Catherine the Great, and Yekaterina Vorontsova-Dashkova.\n\nWomen of eighteenth-century Russia were luckier than their European counterparts in some ways; in others, the life of a Russian woman was more difficult. The eighteenth-century was a time of social and legal changes that began to affect women in a way that they had never before experienced. Peter the Great ruled Russia from 1682–1725 and in that time brought about many changes to Russian culture, altering the orthodox traditions that had been observed since the fall of the Byzantine Empire. The three major social classes present during these reforms experienced changes in varying degrees according to their proximity to the tsar and urban settings where reforms could be more strictly enforced. Large cities underwent the westernization process more rapidly and successfully than the outlying rural villages. Noblewomen, merchant class women, and peasant (serf) women each witnessed Petrine reforms differently. For the lower classes it was not until the end of the eighteenth-century (during the time of Catherine the Great’s reign) that they began to see any changes at all. When these reforms did begin to change women’s lives legally, they also helped to expand their abilities socially. The Petrine reforms of this century allowed for more female participation in society, when before they were merely an afterthought as wives and mothers. “The change in women’s place in Russian society can be illustrated no better than by the fact that five women ruled the empire, in their own names, for a total of seventy years.”\n\nArguably the most important legal change that affected women’s lives was the Law of Single Inheritance instituted by Peter the Great in 1714. The law was supposed to help the tax revenue for Russia by banning the allowance of noble families to divide their land and wealth among multiple children. This law effectively ended the practice of excluding women from inheriting patrimonial estates. \nThe Law of Single Inheritance was clarified in the decree of 1725. It sought to address the question of married daughter’ inheritance rights. The law mandated that if a man was survived by unmarried daughters, the eldest girl would inherit his estate, while the remaining sisters would divide his movable property. His married daughters would receive nothing, however, since they would have received dowries at the time they married.\n\nIn 1730 Anna Ivanova revoked the Law of Single Inheritance, as it had been a major point of contestation among the nobility since Peter first announced it in 1714. After 1731, property rights were expanded to include inheritance in land property. It also gave women greater power over the estates in that had been willed to them, or received in their wedding dowry.\n\nIn pre-Petrine centuries the Russian tsars had never been concerned with educating their people, neither the wealthy nor the serfs. Education reforms were a large part of Petrine westernization; however, it was not until Catherine II’s reforms that education rights applied to both men and women of each class. Education for girls occurred mainly in the home because they were focused on learning about their duties as wife and mother rather than getting an education. “The provision of formal education for women began only in 1764 and 1765, when Catherine II established first the Smolny Institute for girls of the nobility in St. Petersburg and then the Novodevichii Institute for the daughters of commoners.”\n\nIn the eighteenth-century Petrine reforms and enlightenment ideas brought both welcome and unwelcome changes required of the Russian nobility and aristocratic families. Daughters in well-to-do families were raised in the terem, which was usually a separate building connected to the house by an outside passageway. The terem was used to isolate girls of marriageable age and was intended to keep them \"pure\" (sexually inexperienced). These girls were raised solely on the prospect of marrying to connect their own family to another aristocratic family. Many rural and urban lower classes houses had no space to separate young women so there was no designated terem to keep them isolated. Women of lower classes had to live and work with their brothers, fathers, and husbands as well as manage all household matters along with them. Marriage customs changed gradually with the new reforms instituted by Peter the Great; average marriageable age increased, especially in the cities among the wealthier tier of people closest to the tsar and in the public eye. “By the end of the eighteenth-century, brides in cities were usually fifteen to eighteen years old, and even in villages young marriages were becoming more and more rare.” Marriage laws were a significant aspect of the Petrine reforms, but had to be corrected or clarified by later tsars because of their frequent ambiguities. \nIn 1753, a decree was issued to assure that noble families could secure their daughter’s inheritance of land by making it a part of the dowry that she would have access to once she was married. The constant change in property rights was an important part of the Petrine reforms that women witnessed. Family as well as marriage disputes often went to the court system because of the confusion about the dowry, and the rights it was supposed to ensure, in the event of a father’s death or in disputed divorces. For women, the right to own and sell property was a new experience that only came because of Russia’s gradual westernization in the eighteenth century.\n\nMerchant class women also enjoyed newly granted freedoms to own property and manage it; with this new right upper class women gained more independence from their patriarchal restrictions. Wives of merchant class men had more independence than wives of the nobility or peasants because of the nature of their husband’s work, especially when their husbands were away from home on government service, as they were frequently and for long periods of time. The rights of married women from the nobility and merchantry to own and manage their own property offered them an opportunity to become involved in commercial and manufacturing ventures.\n\nA life among the peasant class was hard whether that peasant was male or female; each led lives filled with strenuous labor. They participated in work in the fields and in the making of handicrafts. Women were expected to do domestic work such as cooking, weaving clothes, and cleaning for their families. During planting and harvest time, when help was needed in the fields, women worked with their husbands to plow, sow seeds, then collect and prepare the crops. Early in the eighteenth-century, the average age for peasant girls to marry was around twelve years old. At this time they were still learning what would be expected of them as wives and also needed their parent’s consent to marry. “The requirement of the law code of 1649 that girls not marry before the age of fifteen was rarely observed.” Various permissions for marriage were required; widows and unmarried women living on government owned property had to obtain the permission of the village assembly before they could marry anyone. Young peasant women (like other Russian women) spent far more of their child-bearing years as married women than their counterparts in Western Europe did. Childbirth was dangerous for both mother and child in the eighteenth-century but if a peasant woman was able to, she could potentially give birth, on average, to seven children. In the harsh climate of the Russian steppe, and a life of labor from an early age, perhaps half of all children would live to adulthood. “The birth of her first child, preferably a son, established her position in her husband’s household. As she continued to bear sons, her status further improved.” Russian peasant families needed help in the fields and to manage the household; not being able to hire anyone for these tasks, children were the only way to get the help they needed. Having a son ensured that the family name would continue as well as any property they might own, though as Petrine reforms came into effect, it began to be equally profitable to have a girl.\nHowever, women of any class could turn infrequently to the ecclesiastical courts to resolve their marital conflicts.\n\nBy the mid-nineteenth century, European notions of equality were starting to take hold in Russia. In 1859 St. Petersburg University allowed women to audit its courses, but the policy was revoked just four years later. In the 1860s a feminist movement began to coalesce in St. Petersburg. It was led by Anna Filosofova, Nadezhda Stasova, and Mariia Trubnikova, who together were known as the \"triumvirate.\" Along with members of the St Petersburg literati, such as Evgenia Konradi, they petitioned universities to educate women and wrote to prominent male figures to support their cause. This group also founded organizations to help unattached women become financially self-sufficient, and in 1878 they created the Bestuzhev Courses, which for the first time gave Russia's women reliable access to higher education. By the early 1900s Russia boasted more female doctors, lawyers, and teachers than almost any country in Europe—a fact noted with admiration by many foreign visitors. However, most of these educational benefits were being reaped by urban women from the middle and upper classes. While literacy rates were slowly spreading throughout the country, educational and other opportunities for peasant women were still relatively few.\n\nIn 1910, Poliksena Shishkina-Iavein, the first female gynecologist in Russia, became president of the Russian League for Women's Rights. The League made universal women's suffrage its primary goal, and under Shishkina-Iavein's leadership the women's suffrage movement gained a great deal of popular support, both in Russia and abroad. In March 1917, the Provisional Government, which had replaced Nicholas II's autocracy, granted Russia's women the right to vote and hold political office. It was the first such reform enacted by a major political power.\n\nDuring the 70 years of Soviet Era, women’s roles were complex. Women in Soviet Russia became a vital part of the mobilization into the work force and this opening, of women into sectors that was previously unattainable, allowed opportunities for education, personal development, and training. Women’s responsibility as the ideal industrial Soviet woman meant that she was one who matched working quotas, never complained, and did everything for the betterment of Soviet Russia. These expectations were in addition to the standards demanded of them in the domestic sphere.\n\nThe legal equality of women and men was established during the Bolshevik revolution in 1917. Lenin saw women as a force of labor, that had previously been untapped and encouraged women to partake in the communist revolution. He stated, “Petty housework crushes, strangles, stultifies and degrades [the woman], chains her to the kitchen and to the nursery, and wastes her labor on barbarously unproductive, petty, nerve-racking, stultifying and crushing drudgery.\" Women needed to be economically free from men, and this meant that there had to be an allowance of women to enter the work force. The number of women who entered the work force rose from 423,200 in 1923 to 885,000 in 1930.\n\nTo achieve this increase of women in the work force, the new communist government issued the First Family Code. This code separated marriage from the church, allowed a couple to choose a surname, gave illegitimate children the same rights as legitimate children, gave rights to maternal entitlements, health and safety protections at work, and provided women with the right to a divorce on extended grounds. In 1920, Soviet government legalized abortion. Labor laws also assisted women. Women were given equal rights in regards to insurance in case of illness, eight-week paid maternity-leave, and a minimum wage standard that was set for both men and women. Both sexes were also afforded paid holiday leave. These measures were put into place to produce a quality labor force from both of the sexes. While the reality was that not all women were granted these rights, they established a pivot from the traditional systems of the Russian imperialist.\n\nTo oversee this code and women’s freedoms, the communist party created a specialist women’s department, called the Zhenotdel. The department produced propaganda encouraging more women to become a part of the urban population and the communist revolutionary party. The 1920s experienced changes in the urban centers of family policy, sexuality, and women’s political activism. The creation of the “new soviet woman”, who was self-sacrificing and dedicated to the revolutionary cause, paved the way for the expectation of women to come. In 1925, with the number of divorces increasing, Zhenotdel created the second family plan, proposing a common law marriage for couples that were living together. However, a year later, the government created a marriage law as a reaction to the \"de facto\" marriages that were causing inequality for women. As a result of the policy implementation of the New Economic Plan (NEP), if a man left his \"de facto\" wife, she was left unable to secure assistance. Men had no legal ties and as such, if a woman got pregnant, he would be able to leave, and not be legally responsible to assist the woman or child; this led to an increase in the number of homeless children. Because a \"de facto\" wife enjoyed no rights, the government sought to resolve this through the 1926 marriage law, granting registered and unregistered marriages equal rights and emphasized the obligations that came with marriage. \n\nBy 1930, the Zhenotdel was disbanded, as the government claimed that their work was completed. Women began to enter the Soviet workforce at a scale that had never before been seen. However, in the mid-1930s, there was a return to the more traditional and conservative values in many areas of social and family policy. Abortion was made illegal, homosexuality was declared a crime, legal differences between legitimate and illegitimate children were restored, and divorce was once again difficult to attain. Women became the heroine of the home and made sacrifices for their husband and were to create a positive life at home that would “increase productivity and improve quality of work.” The 1940s continued its traditional ideology and the nuclear family was the driving force of the time. Women held the social responsibility of motherhood that could not be ignored.\n\nSome local women's organizations also existed. For example, a group of Azeri bolshevik women in the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic founded the Ali Bayramov Club, a women's club dedicated to the unveiling of Muslim women, promoting female literacy, giving women opportunities for vocational training and employment, and organizing leisure and cultural events.\n\nDuring Stalinist Russia, women also fell victim to the Great Purge that plagued the country. From 1934-1940, the number of women that were gulag prisoners rose from 30,108 to 108,898. The women were not sent to hard labor camps, but rather worked at camps that were textile or sewing factories, and were only forced to perform hard labor as a punishment. Women in the camps were often subjects of violence and/or sexual abuse. At the same time, “Thank you literature” became a result of the personality cult that Stalin had implemented and articles in women’s magazines would praise Stalin for the work that he had done for women.\n\nDuring WWII, women exemplified the motherland and patriotism. Many became widowed during the war, making them more likely to be become impoverished. As men were called away to assist with the fighting, women stepped in and became in charge of state farms and large collective farms. In 1942, to meet harvest quotas, over half of the agricultural labor force was made up of women. They were not only assuming roles on collective farms, but 8,476 girls went into the Red army and Soviet navy to assist in the Great Patriotic War. The motto of the time became, “Soviet women gave all their strengthen to the motherland…no difficulties arising on the path to building peace could frighten them.”\n\nThe ban on abortion was repealed in 1955 - after almost 20 years of prohibition, abortion became legal again. After Stalin’s death, the Soviet government revoked the 1936 laws and issued a new law on abortion.\nValentina Vladimirovna Tereshkova (Russian: Валенти́на Влади́мировна Терешко́ва; born 6 March 1937) was the first woman to have flown in space, having been selected from more than four hundred applicants and five finalists to pilot Vostok 6 on 16 June 1963. Before her recruitment as cosmonaut, Tereshkova was a textile factory assembly worker and an amateur skydiver. In order to join the Cosmonaut Corps, Tereshkova was only honorarily inducted into the Soviet Air Force and thus she also became the first civilian to fly in space. During her three-day mission, she performed various tests on herself to collect data on the female body's reaction to spaceflight.\n\nThe 1977 Soviet Constitution supported women's rights both in public life (Art 35) and in family life (art Art 53). Yet, the Constitution was somewhat contradictory: although it ensured women's rights to education, in the workforce, and in the family; the emphasis on motherhood as the essential calling of women was strong.\n\nMost of the nominal state benefit programs for women continued into the post-Soviet era. However, as in the Soviet era, Russian women in the 1990s predominated in economic sectors where pay is low, and they continued to receive less pay than men for comparable positions. In 1995 men in health care earned an average of 50 percent more than women in that field, and male engineers received an average of 40 percent more than their female colleagues. Despite that, on average, women were better educated than men, women remained in the minority in senior management positions. In the later Soviet era, women's wages averaged 70 percent of men's; by 1995 the figure was 40 percent, according to the Moscow-based Center for Gender Studies. According to a 1996 report, 87 percent of employed urban Russians earning less than 100,000 rubles a month were women, and the percentage of women decreased consistently in the higher wage categories.\n\nAccording to reports, women generally are the first to be fired, and they face other forms of on-the-job discrimination as well. Struggling companies often fire women to avoid paying child care benefits or granting maternity leave, as the law still requires. In 1995 women constituted an estimated 70 percent of Russia's unemployed, and as much as 90 percent in some areas.\n\nSociological surveys show that sexual harassment and violence against women increased at all levels of society in the 1990s. More than 13,000 rapes were reported in 1994, meaning that several times that number of that often-unreported crime probably were committed. In 1993 an estimated 14,000 women were murdered by their husbands or lovers, about twenty times the figure in the United States and several times the figure in Russia five years earlier. More than 300,000 other types of crimes, including spousal abuse, were committed against women in 1994; in 1996 the State Duma (the lower house of the Federal Assembly, Russia's parliament) drafted a law against domestic violence.\n\nIndependent women's organizations, a form of activity suppressed in the Soviet era, were formed in large numbers in the 1990s at the local, regional, and national levels. One such group is the Center for Gender Studies, a private research institute. The center analyzes demographic and social problems of women and acts as a link between Russian and Western feminist groups. A traveling group called Feminist Alternative offers women assertiveness training. Many local groups have emerged to engage in court actions on behalf of women, to set up rape and domestic violence awareness programs (about a dozen of which were active in 1995), and to aid women in establishing businesses. Another prominent organization is the Women's Union of Russia, which focuses on job-training programs, career counseling, and the development of entrepreneurial skills that will enable women to compete more successfully in Russia's emerging market economy. Despite the proliferation of such groups and programs, in the mid-1990s most Russians (including many women) remained contemptuous of their efforts, which many regard as a kind of Western subversion of traditional (Soviet and even pre-Soviet) social values.\n\nThe rapidly expanding private sector has offered women new employment opportunities, but many of the Soviet stereotypes remain. The most frequently offered job in new businesses is that of \"sekretarja\" (secretary/receptionist), and advertisements for such positions in private-sector companies often specify physical attractiveness as a primary requirement (a requirement that is illegal in governmental organizations). Russian law provides for as much as three years' imprisonment for sexual harassment, but the law rarely is enforced. Although the Fund for Protection from Sexual Harassment has blacklisted 300 Moscow firms where sexual harassment is known to have taken place, demands for sex and even rape still are common on-the-job occurrences.\n\nThe law lists 456 occupations and 38 branches of industry than are forbidden to women, as they are considered too dangerous to their health, especially reproductive health.\n\nWomen's higher profile in post-Soviet Russia also has extended to politics. At the national level, the most notable manifestation of women's newfound political success has been the Women of Russia party, which won 11 percent of the vote and twenty-five seats in the 1993 national parliamentary elections. Subsequently, the party became active in a number of issues, including the opposition to the military campaign in Chechnya that began in 1994. In the 1995 national parliamentary elections, the Women of Russia chose to maintain its platform unchanged, emphasizing social issues such as the protection of children and women rather than entering into a coalition with other liberal parties. As a result, the party failed to reach the 5 percent threshold of votes required for proportional representation in the new State Duma, gaining only three seats in the single-seat portion of the elections. The party considered running a candidate in the 1996 presidential election but remained outside the crowded field.\n\nA smaller organization, the Russian Women's Party, ran as part of an unsuccessful coalition with several other splinter parties in the 1995 elections. A few women, such as Ella Pamfilova of the Republican Party, Socialist Workers' Party chief Lyudmila Vartazarova, and Valeriya Novodvorskaya, leader of the Democratic Union, have established themselves as influential political figures. Pamfilova has gained particular stature as an advocate on behalf of women and elderly people.\n\nThe Soldiers' Mothers Movement was formed in 1989 to expose human rights violations in the armed forces and to help youths resist the draft. The movement has gained national prominence through its opposition to the war in Chechnya. Numerous protests have been organized, and representatives have gone to the Chechen capital, Groznyy, to demand the release of Russian prisoners and locate missing soldiers. The group, which claimed 10,000 members in 1995, also has lobbied against extending the term of mandatory military service.\n\nWomen have occupied few positions of influence in the executive branch of Russia's national government. One post in the Government (cabinet), that of minister of social protection, has become a \"traditional\" women's position; in 1994 Ella Pamfilova was followed in that position by Lyudmila Bezlepkina, who headed the ministry until the end of President Boris Yeltsin's first term in mid-1996. Tat'yana Paramanova was acting chairman of the Russian Central Bank for one year before Yeltsin replaced her in November 1995, and Tat'yana Regent has been head of the Federal Migration Service since its inception in 1992. Prior to the 1995 elections, women held about 10 percent of the seats in parliament: fifty-seven of 450 seats in the State Duma and nine of 178 seats in the upper house of parliament, the Federation Council. The Soviet system of mandating legislative seats generally allocated about one-third of the seats in republic-level legislatures and one-half of the seats in local soviets to women, but those proportions shrank drastically with the first multiparty elections of 1990.\n\nArticle 19 of the 1993 Constitution of Russia guarantees equal rights to women and men. Under the Labour law, women have the right to paid maternity leave, paid parental leave, and unpaid parental leave, that can be extended until the child is 3.\n\nWomen now have for generations worked outside the home; dual income families are the most common: the employment rate of women and men is 65.2% and 75.2% respectively (age 15-64, as of 2016). Nevertheless, women often face discrimination in the labour market; and the law itself lists 456 occupations and 38 branches of industry that are forbidden to women, as they are considered too dangerous to their health, especially reproductive health. Despite this, many Russian women have achieved success in business.\n\nThe total fertility rate of Russia is 1.61 as of 2015, which, although below replacement rate of 2.1, is still higher than in the 1990s.\n\nIn the post-Soviet era, the position of women in Russian society remains at least as problematic as in previous decades. In both cases, nominal legal protections for women either have failed to address the existing conditions or have failed to supply adequate support. In the 1990s, increasing economic pressures and shrinking government programs left women with little choice but to seek employment, although most available positions were as substandard as in the Soviet period, and generally jobs of any sort were more difficult to obtain. Such conditions contribute heavily to Russia's declining birthrate and the general deterioration of the family. At the same time, feminist groups and social organizations have begun advancing the cause of women's rights in what remains a strongly traditional society.\n\nWhile there has been an increase in the share of women in politics in Russia, this has not led to increased gender equality in Russian society overall. A 2016 study argues that it is because female politicians in Russia are \"boxed in by informal rules and by parallel institutions and posts, with virtually no opportunities to advocate for women’s interests. Putin’s regime has promoted women to be “stand ins” during times of crisis or change, “loyalists” and “showgirls” when the regime needs to showcase elections and representation, and “cleaners” when the appearance of corruption threatens the regime.\"\n\nIn January 2017, the lower house of the Russian legislature decriminalized first time domestic violence. This applies to first offenses which do not cause serious injury, decreasing from a maximum penalty of two years imprisonment to a maximum of fifteen days in police custody. It became an administrative offense, with the penalty for first offenses falling under the Administrative Code, these usually being fines or suspended sentences if the accused is a family member, which constitutes the vast majority of domestic violence cases. For second offense and beyond, it is considered a criminal offense, prosecuted under the Criminal Code. The move was widely seen as part of a state-sponsored turn to traditional values under Putin and shift away from liberal notions of individual and human rights. President Putin signed the bill into law in February 2017. The Guardian reported in February 2017 that \"according to some estimates, one woman dies every 40 minutes from domestic abuse.\"\n\nRussia has a long history of successful female skaters and gymnasts. Figure skating is a popular sport; in the 1960s the Soviet Union rose to become a dominant power in figure skating, especially in pairs skating and ice dancing; and this continued even after the fall the USSR. Artistic Gymnastics are among Russia's most popular sports; Svetlana Khorkina is one of the most successful female gymnasts of all time. Russian women are also internationally successful in many other sports, such as athletics, basketball, tennis and volleyball.\n\nAs in other former communist countries, the fall of the state planned economy after the collapse of the USSR, led to increased socioeconomic problems, such as unemployment, insecurity and crime. This created a fertile ground for human trafficking, especially sex trafficking.\n\nWomen and children who live in poverty are at most risk of becoming trafficking victims. Prostitution in Russia has spread rapidly in recent years, with women from small towns and rural areas migrating (willing or unwillingly) to big cities such as Moscow, St. Petersburg, Omsk, or Yekaterinburg to engage in prostitution. Russian women are also lured abroad with sham promises of jobs such as dancers, models, waitresses or domestic helpers and end up caught in forced prostitution situations. However, Russia has ratified the UN Trafficking Protocol, and has taken steps to curb this phenomenon.\n\n\n (Data as of 1996.)\n\n"}
{"id": "3017286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3017286", "title": "Zebulon Brockway", "text": "Zebulon Brockway\n\nZebulon Reed Brockway (April 28, 1827 – October 21, 1920) was a penologist and is sometimes regarded as the \"Father of prison reform\" and \"Father of American Parole\" in the United States.\n\nBrockway was born in Lyme, Connecticut in 1827. He married Caroline Brockway. \n\nHe began his career as a prison guard or assistant warden at the state prison in Wethersfield, Connecticut in 1848. Brockway became a clerk at the Wethersfield prison by 23 years old. Later he worked as assistant superintendent of the Municipal Alms House in Albany, New York for four years. He was made the Monroe County, New York Penitentiary superintendent in 1854. There, he focused upon rehabilitation of the prisoners. In 1861, Brockway became the superintendent of the prison in Detroit, where he attempted to introduce work and release supervision programs and \"indeterminate sentences\". Brockway's chief innovation, though, was his attempt to establish the country's first indeterminate sentencing system. In 1869, Brockway drafted a law, passed by the Michigan legislature but overturned by the state Supreme Court, that would allow for the conditional and discretionary release of \"common prostitutes.\"\n\nWhen he was in Detroit, he got the inspiration for his prison reforms from Moses and Amos Pilsbury, who also brought about prison reforms. He began his reforms in Detroit. However, he resigned in 1872 when his ideas were no longer accepted.\n\nBefore the Elmira Reformatory was built, Brockway was already made the superintendent in 1876. While warden at the Elmira Reformatory in Upstate New York from 1876 to 1900, Brockway introduced a program of education, training in useful trades, physical activity, indeterminate sentences, inmate classification, and an incentive program. Brockway believed that the primary reason to have a prisoner in custody was to rehabilitate and not simply just to punish. By giving them the moral and spiritual guidance that they needed, Brockway believed that this was the key to helping them become better and useful citizens. He also used the idea of indeterminate sentence which would allow a prisoner to get parole sooner than he expected, because Brockway did not believe in fixed sentences either. His rules had two sides. One side was if a prisoner was well behaved and abided by the rules, then he would be rewarded. If a prisoner did not abide by the rules then he would be punished. These sets of rules came under scrutiny.\n\nIn 1893, his administration endured investigation into accusations of brutality at Elmira, but he retired at the age of 72 in 1900 after further criticism. Brockway was such a popular man in Elmira that he was elected mayor five years later at 77.\n\nIn 1912, he wrote \"Fifty Years of Prison Service: An Autobiography (1912)\".\n\nZebulon Brockway died in 1920 at the age of 93.\n"}
