{"id": "227565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227565", "title": "1541 in literature", "text": "1541 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1541.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3311135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3311135", "title": "1694 in music", "text": "1694 in music\n\nThe year 1694 in music involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1436954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1436954", "title": "A Syntopicon: An Index to The Great Ideas", "text": "A Syntopicon: An Index to The Great Ideas\n\nA Syntopicon: An Index to The Great Ideas (1952) is a two-volume index, published as volumes 2 and 3 of Encyclopædia Britannica’s collection \"Great Books of the Western World\". Compiled by Mortimer Adler, an American philosopher, under the guidance of Robert Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago, the volumes were billed as a collection of the 102 great ideas of the western canon. The term “syntopicon” was coined specifically for this undertaking, meaning “a collection of topics.” The volumes catalogued what Adler and his team deemed to be the fundamental ideas contained in the works of the Great Books of the Western World, which stretched chronologically from Homer to Freud. The \"Syntopicon\" lists, under each idea, where every occurrence of the concept can be located in the collection’s famous works.\n\nThe \"Syntopicon\" was created to set the Great Books collection apart from previously published sets (such as Harvard Classics). Robert Hutchins, at the time, in addition to being the president of the University of Chicago, also served as Chairman of the Board of Editors of the Encyclopædia Britannica. Hutchins and Adler were recruited by the encyclopedia’s publisher for a “special idea” which would increase the collection’s marketability.\n\nWith this mission, Adler undertook a project that would consume over a decade of his life: identifying and indexing the western world’s Great Ideas. In the end, the \"Syntopicon\" would require over 400,000 man-hours of reading and cost over two million dollars. Britannica publisher Senator William Benton joked at the Great Books presentation dinner that “the Syntopicon is said to be the most expensive two volumes editorially in all publishing history. How Hutchins and Adler achieved that unique distinction, the publisher is still trying to figure out. (Clifton Fadiman) assured me some day the story will be told. I’d like it whenever I can get it.”\n\nThe process of cataloging each appearance of one of the “Great Ideas” in all 431 works by 71 authors in the collection was so arduous that the \"Syntopicon\" nearly did not make it to print. Before it even came time to print, the budget had topped a million dollars and there was not even “a penny for paper” left. Adler persevered, however, having spent the previous eight years of his life on the project. He single-handedly raised funds by selling more expensive “Founders Editions” of the sets, and disobeyed the order to fire his entire staff. There were times, during the process when he admitted: “the question was could we sell the plates for junk! Could we dispose of the plates as old metal?”\n\nAdler felt, through it all, that he was creating something completely new. The \"Syntopicon\", he felt, would be revolutionary, its release on par with such events as the creation of the first dictionary. It would do for ideas what previous reference books had done for words and facts. He worked with a team of over 100 readers who met twice a week for years to discuss the readings and the ideas within them. Among his editorial team was a young Saul Bellow.\n\nIn the end, he produced two volumes, which listed the 102 Great Ideas of the western world, from Angel to World. The set was released with much fanfare, including an honorary gifting of the first two editions to U.S. President Harry S. Truman and Elizabeth II. An internal memo from Encyclopædia Britannica, regarding a release party, reads:\n\n“The projected sequences of events is: (1) Mr. Hutchins kicks off the conference with a discussion of the Great Books movement, and the university’s and Britannica’s interest in the set; (2) Mr. Adler tells in detail of the contents of the set and the significance of the Syntopicon; (3) Cocktails.”\n\nIn addition to being a “special idea” that would set Great Books of the Western World apart, the \"Syntopicon\" serves four other purposes, outlined in its preface. The \"Syntopicon\" can serve as a reference book, as a book to be read, as an “instrument of liberal education,” and as “an instrument of discovery and research.”\n\nAbove all, however, the \"Syntopicon\" was created to unite the western world’s canon. It was created to solve what Adler saw as a fundamental problem, that “different authors say the same thing in different ways, or use the same words to say quite different things.” By cataloging the things the great authors were saying in a more scientific manner, Adler hoped to show the underlying unity that ultimately existed in the collected works.\n\nFor Hutchins, a chief proponent of classical education, the creation of the \"Syntopicon\" held even greater implications. Hutchins felt that the ideas being discussed and cross-listed in the \"Syntopicon\" might be \"powerful enough to save the world from self-destruction.\"\n\nThe \"Syntopicon\" consists of 102 chapters on the 102 Great Ideas. Each chapter is broken down into five distinct sections: the introduction, an outline of topics, references, cross-references, and additional readings. Adler penned all 102 introductions himself, giving a brief essay on the idea and its connection with the western canon. The outline of topics broke each idea down further, into as many as 15 sub-ideas. For instance, the first idea “Angel” is broken down into “Inferior deities or demi-gods in polytheistic religion,” “the philosophical consideration of pure intelligences, spiritual substances, supra-human persons” and seven other subtopics. After this is the references section (for instance, “inferior deities or demi-gods in polytheistic religion” can be found in Homer, Sophocles, Shakespeare, Milton, Bacon, Locke, Hegel, Goethe and more). Cross-references follow, where similar ideas are listed. Last is the additional readings, in which one could seek out more on the subject of “Angel.”\n\nThe list of 102 ideas is broken between the two volumes, as follows:\n\nVolume I: Angel, Animal, Aristocracy, Art, Astronomy, Beauty, Being, Cause, Chance, Change, Citizen, Constitution, Courage, Custom and Convention, Definition, Democracy, Desire, Dialectic, Duty, Education, Element, Emotion, Eternity, Evolution, Experience, Family, Fate, Form, God, Good and Evil, Government, Habit, Happiness, History, Honor, Hypothesis, Idea, Immortality, Induction, Infinity, Judgment, Justice, Knowledge, Labor, Language, Law, Liberty, Life and Death, Logic, and Love.\n\nVolume II: Man, Mathematics, Matter, Mechanics, Medicine, Memory and Imagination, Metaphysics, Mind, Monarchy, Nature, Necessity and Contingency, Oligarchy, One and Many, Opinion, Opposition, Philosophy, Physics, Pleasure and Pain, Poetry, Principle, Progress, Prophecy, Prudence, Punishment, Quality, Quantity, Reasoning, Relation, Religion, Revolution, Rhetoric, Same and Other, Science, Sense, Sign and Symbol, Sin, Slavery, Soul, Space, State, Temperance, Theology, Time, Truth, Tyranny and Despotism, Universal and Particular, Virtue and Vice, War and Peace, Wealth, Will, Wisdom, and World.\n\nThe release of the \"Syntopicon\" and the Great Books of the Western World was covered in the \"New York Herald\", \"The New York Times\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"Time\" magazine, the \"Chicago Tribune\", and local papers across the United States.\n\nFull page ads for \"Time\" magazine appeared in newspapers across the country, saying “What and Why is a Syntopicon?” Time published an article about the new, pivotal piece of reference material, and Adler wrote them back in thanks, saying that “I think the piece is both thoroughly accurate and very lively, which, considering the subject matter, is quite a feat.”\n\n\"Look\" magazine ran a feature on the \"Syntopicon\", displaying behind-the-scene photos of the index’s staff at work. In one picture, editor Joe Roddy is shown weighing the number of entries about love on a scale. “Discussions of love by great authors,” the caption reads, “outweigh sin and eternity.”\n\nDespite the extensive press coverage and cross-country speeches, however, sales of the \"Syntopicon\" and the Great Books of the Western World were slow. Experienced encyclopedia salesmen had to be brought in to move the product, despite Hutchins’ dislike of this solution.\n\nThe \"Syntopicon\"'s list was \"arbitrary\", as even Adler admitted. The press and others also found problems with the \"Syntopicon\", and despite Adler’s predictions (“we predict that, as dictionaries are indispensable in the realm of words, and encyclopaedias in the realm of facts, so the Syntopicon will become indispensable in the realm of ideas” ) the \"Syntopicon\" has fallen into relative obscurity. At the time of its release, \"The New York Times Book Review\" declared: “Its defects are on the surface. One is the implication that great books are concerned only with ideas which can be logically analyzed—whereas many masterpieces of literature live in realms partially or wholly outside the realm of logic. Another is the conception that the chief purpose of reading a book is to crack its shell and reach its kernel—the form itself being unimportant decoration.”\n\nIn a succeeding book, Adler expressed his regret that the civil rights concept of Equality had not been selected. He attempted to rectify the omission with \"Six Great Ideas: Truth–Goodness–Beauty–Liberty–Equality–Justice\" (1981).\n\nAdler attempted another index, in one volume, the \"Propædia\" for the fifteenth edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". A traditional two-volume alphabetical index has since been produced for the more recent versions of the fifteenth edition, in addition to \"Propædia\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31494976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31494976", "title": "Aelfric Society", "text": "Aelfric Society\n\nThe Aelfric Society (Ælfric Society) was a text publication society founded in London (England), and active from 1842 to 1856, which published the Homilies of Ælfric of Eynsham (perhaps Archbishop of Canterbury, during 996–1006) and other works by Anglo-Saxon writers. It is also known as \"Aelfric Society Publications\".\n\nThe Ælfric Society was named in honor of Ælfric of Eynsham, a Benedictine monk who wrote a Saxon grammar and dictionary (glossary). He had also translated a number of homilies and the Heptateuch into Old English. For the society, the Anglo-Saxon scholar Benjamin Thorpe (1782–1870) edited the homilies, during 1844–1846. Ælfric's Saxon grammar and glossary had been printed, nearly two hundred years earlier, at Oxford in 1639 and 1698.\n\nThe Edinburgh branch of the society operated from 87 Princes Street and was run by T G Stevenson.\nThe Aelfric Society published several works, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "30538242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30538242", "title": "Antioch mosaics", "text": "Antioch mosaics\n\nThe Antioch mosaics are a grouping of over 300 mosaic floors created around the 3rd century AD, and discovered during archaeological excavations of Antioch between 1932 and 1939 by a consortium of five museums and institutions. About half of the mosaics are housed at the Hatay Archaeology Museum in Antakya, with others currently residing at the Worcester Art Museum, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Baltimore Museum of Art, Harvard University and Princeton University Art Museum among others. The mosaics range in design from realistic imagery and scenes, to purely geometric patterns.\n\nAntioch was an ancient city located just outside the modern day city of Antakya, Turkey. During the reign of Hadrian, during the 2nd century, through to the reign of Justinian in the 6th century, mosaic floors were the fashion in the city and its surrounding suburbs. The city thrived until it was destroyed by earthquakes in 526 and 528.\n\nBeginning in 1932, a consortium of museums and institutions sponsored expeditions to the archaeological sites where the city of Antioch once stood. These museums, the Worcester Art Museum, Princeton University, the musée du Louvre, the Baltimore Museum of Art, and Harvard University's affiliate Dumbarton Oaks, were attempting to uncover great monuments, palaces, and treasures, but were disappointed when most of what was unearthed, under tons of silt, was just the remains of houses, most without any remaining walls. The only surviving part of the majority of the houses was the floors. \n\nThe floors the archaeologists discovered were covered in intricate mosaics. More than 300 mosaics were found.\n\nIn 1939 the expedition ended and the archaeologists packed up to leave. They left about half of the unearthed mosaics to the city of Antakya, the modern day city located at Antioch, which subsequently built a museum, the Antakya Archaeological Museum, to house them. The rest of the mosaics were split up amongst the institutions that took part in the dig, and were sent all over the world. To be transported, large amounts of concrete was poured behind the mosaics to create a stable backing. When dividing up the floors, the archeologists, often took apart rooms and sent different parts of the floor to different museums. For an exhibit at the Worcester Art Museum in 2000, mosaics were compiled from Paris, Baltimore, Princeton and Wellesley, to reassemble a single room's floor. After the expedition left, the pits were filled back in and olive groves were planted over them.\n\nThe Antioch mosaics were created at a time and place between distinct artistic styles. They show the link between artistic styles of ancient Greece and Rome, and the art of early Christianity. The mosaics are incredibly large, with \"The Worcester Hunt,\" the largest Antioch mosaic in the United States, measuring x . The mosaics range in design from realistic imagery and scenes, to purely geometric patterns. It is believed that the mosaics were created by mosaic specialists.\n\nThe Tessera for the mosaics is both white and colored marble as well as white and colored limestone. \n\n"}
{"id": "817041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=817041", "title": "Armiger", "text": "Armiger\n\nIn heraldry, an armiger is a person entitled to use a heraldic achievement (e.g., bear arms, an \"armour-bearer\") either by hereditary right, grant, matriculation, or assumption of arms. Such a person is said to be armigerous.\n\nThe Latin word \"armiger\" literally means \"arms-bearer\". In high and late medieval England, the word referred to an esquire attendant upon a knight, but bearing his own unique armorial device. \n\n\"Armiger\" was also used as a Latin cognomen, and is now found as a rare surname in English-speaking countries.\n\nToday, the term \"armiger\" is well-defined only within jurisdictions, such as Canada, the Republic of Ireland, Spain and the United Kingdom, where heraldry is regulated by the state or a heraldic body, such as the College of Arms, the Chief Herald of Canada, the Court of the Lord Lyon or the Office of the Chief Herald of Ireland. A person can be so entitled either by proven (and typically agnatic) descent from a person with a right to bear a heraldic achievement, or by virtue of a grant of arms to himself. Merely sharing the same family name of an armiger is insufficient.\n\nMost of the time, the usage of a heraldic achievement is governed by legal restrictions; these restrictions are independent of the copyright status and independent of a coat of arms depiction. A coat of arms represents its owner. Though it can be freely represented, it cannot be appropriated, or used in such a way as to create a confusion with or a prejudice to its owner.\n\nIn the Netherlands, titles of nobility are regulated by law but heraldry is not. In Sweden and Finland the nobility has had, since 1762, the prerogative to use an open helmet, while others use a closed helmet.\n\n"}
{"id": "1404963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1404963", "title": "Baubo", "text": "Baubo\n\nBaubo (Ancient Greek: Βαυβώ) is an old woman in Greek mythology which appears particularly in the myths of the early Orphic religion. Known as the Goddess of Mirth, she was bawdy and sexually liberated, and is said to have jested with Demeter, when Demeter was mourning the loss of her daughter, Persephone.\n\nIn his \"Greek Myths\" (1996), Robert Graves writes that Demeter (in disguise) was the guest of King Celeus in Eleusis. Iambe, the lame maid of the king:\n\nGraves writes: \n\nThe following excerpt is taken from Clement of Alexandria's \"Exhortation to the Greeks,\" from a 1919 English translation:\n\nFigurines known as Baubos are found in a number of settings, usually with Greek connections. They were mass-produced in a number of styles, but the basic figure always exposes the vulva in some way:\n\n\nThe figurines usually had elaborate headdresses, and some hold cups or harps. Some figurines have a loop moulded into the head, which seems to indicate that they were suspended in some way (possibly as an amulet).\n\n\nThe following books are mostly about medieval sexual sculpture but have sections on Baubo:\n\n"}
{"id": "75961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75961", "title": "Beeldenstorm", "text": "Beeldenstorm\n\nBeeldenstorm in Dutch, roughly translatable to \"statue storm\", or Bildersturm in German (\"image/statue storm\"), also the Great Iconoclasm or Iconoclastic Fury, is a term used for outbreaks of destruction of religious images that occurred in Europe in the 16th century. During these spates of iconoclasm, Catholic art and many forms of church fittings and decoration were destroyed in unofficial or mob actions by Calvinist Protestant crowds as part of the Protestant Reformation. Most of the destruction was of art in churches and public places.\n\nThe Dutch term usually specifically refers to the wave of disorderly attacks in the summer of 1566 that spread rapidly through the Low Countries from south to north. Similar outbreaks of iconoclasm took place in other parts of Europe, especially in Switzerland and the Holy Roman Empire in the period between 1522 and 1566, notably Zürich (in 1523), Copenhagen (1530), Münster (1534), Geneva (1535), and Augsburg (1537).\n\nIn England there was both government-sponsored removal of images and also spontaneous attacks from 1535 onwards, and in Scotland from 1559. In France there were several outbreaks as part of the French Wars of Religion from 1560 onwards.\n\nIn France unofficial episodes of large scale destruction of art in churches by Huguenot Calvinists had begun in 1560; unlike in the Low Countries they were often physically resisted and repulsed by Roman Catholic crowds, but were to continue throughout the French Wars of Religion. In Anglican England much destruction had already taken place in an organized fashion under orders from the government, while in Northern Europe, groups of Calvinists marched through churches and removed images, a move which \"provoked reactive riots by Lutheran mobs\" in Germany and \"antagonized the neighbouring Eastern Orthodox\" in the Baltic region.\n\nIn Germany, Switzerland and England, conversion to Protestantism had been enforced on the whole population at the level of a city, principality or kingdom, with varying degrees of discrimination, persecution or expulsion applied to those who insisted on remaining Roman Catholic. The Low Countries, Flanders, Brabant and Holland, were part of the inheritance of Philip II of Spain, who was a devout Catholic and self-proclaimed protector of the Counter-Reformation, and suppressed Protestantism through his Governor-general or Regent, Margaret of Parma the illegitimate daughter of Emperor Charles V, who was herself more willing to compromise. Although Protestants so far represented only a relatively small proportion of the Netherlandish population, but including disproportionate numbers from the nobility and upper bourgeoisie, the Catholic Church had evidently lost the loyalty of the population, and traditional Catholic anti-clericalism was now dominant.\n\nThe region affected was perhaps the richest in Europe, but still seethed with economic discontent among parts of the population, and had suffered a poor harvest and hard winter. However, recent historians are generally less inclined to see the movement as prompted by these factors than was the case a few decades ago.\nThe Beeldenstorm grew out of a turn in the behaviour of Low Country Protestants starting around 1560, who became increasingly open in their religion, despite penal sanctions. Catholic preachers were interrupted in sermons, and raids were organized to rescue Protestant prisoners from jail, who then often fled into exile in France or England. Protestant views were spread by a large movement of \"field sermons\" or open-air sermons () held outside towns, and therefore out of the jurisdiction of the town authorities. The first took place on the \"Cloostervelt\" near Hondschoote, in what is now the arrondissement of Dunkirk in French Flanders, very close to where the attacks later began, and the first one to be armed against disruption was held near Boeschepe on July 12, 1562, two months after religious war had broken out again over the (then) French border just nearby.\n\nThese open-air sermons, mostly by Anabaptist or Mennonite preachers, spread through the country, attracting huge crowds, though not necessarily of those leaning to Protestantism, and in many places immediately preceded the iconoclastic attacks of August 1566. Prosecutions for heresy continued, especially in the south, although they were erratic, and in some places clergy of clearly heretical views were appointed to churches. By 1565 the authorities seem to have realized that persecution was not the answer, and the level of prosecutions slackened, and the Protestants became increasingly confident in the open. A letter of July 22, 1566, from local officials to the Regent, warned that \"the scandalous pillage of churches, monasteries and abbeys\" was imminent.\n\nOn August 10, 1566, the feast-day of Saint Lawrence, at the end of the pilgrimage from Hondschoote to Steenvoorde, the chapel of the \"Sint-Laurensklooster\" was defaced by a crowd who invaded the building. It has been suggested that the rioters connected the saint especially with Philip II, whose monastery palace of the Escorial near Madrid was dedicated to Lawrence, and was just nearing completion in 1566. Iconoclastic attacks spread rapidly northwards and resulted in the destruction of not only images but all sorts of decoration and fittings in churches and other church or clergy property. However, there was relatively little loss of life, unlike similar outbreaks in France, where the clergy were often killed, and some iconoclasts too.\n\nThe attacks reached the commercial centre of the Low Countries, Antwerp, on August 20, and on August 22 Ghent, where the cathedral, eight churches, twenty-five monasteries and convents, ten hospitals and seven chapels were wrecked. From there, it further spread east and north, reaching Amsterdam, then a much smaller town, by August 23, and continuing in the far north and east into October, although the main towns were mostly attacked in August. Valenciennes (\"Valencijn\" on the map) was the most southerly town attacked. In the east, Maastricht on September 20 and Venlo on October 5 saw attacks, but generally the outbreaks were restricted to more westerly and northern areas. Over 400 churches were attacked in Flanders alone.\n\nThe eye-witness Richard Clough, a Welsh Protestant merchant then in Antwerp, saw: \"all the churches, chapels and houses of religion utterly defaced, and no kind of thing left whole within them, but broken and utterly destroyed, being done after such order and by so few folks that it is to be marvelled at.\" The Church of Our Lady in Antwerp, later made the cathedral (illustrated at top): \"looked like a hell, with above 10,000 torches burning, and such a noise as if heaven and earth had got together, with falling of images and beating down of costly works, such sort that the spoil was so great that a man could not well pass through the church. So that in fine [short], I cannot write you in x sheets of paper the strange sight I saw there, organs and all destroyed.\"\n\nNicolas Sander, an English Catholic exile who was a professor of theology at Louvain, described the destruction in the same church:\n... these fresh followers of this new preaching threw down the graven [sculpted] and defaced the painted images, not only of Our Lady but of all others in the town. They tore the curtains, dashed in pieces the carved work of brass and stone, brake the altars, spoilt the clothes and corporesses, wrested the irons, conveyed away or brake the chalices and vestiments, pulled up the brass of the gravestones, not sparing the glass and seats which were made about the pillars of the church for men to sit in. ... the Blessed Sacrament of the altar ... they trod under their feet and (horrible it is to say!) shed their stinking piss upon it ... these false bretheren burned and rent not only all kind of Church books, but, moreover, destroyed whole libraries of books of all sciences and tongues, yea the Holy Scriptures and the ancient fathers, and tore in pieces the maps and charts of the descriptions of countries.\nSuch details are corroborated by many other sources. Accounts of the actions of the iconoclasts from eyewitnesses and the records of the later trials of many of them make it clear that there was often a considerable element of carnival to the outbreaks, with much mockery of the images and fittings such as fonts recorded as the iconoclasts went about their work. Alcohol features largely in very many accounts, perhaps in some cases because in Netherlandish law being drunk could be regarded as a mitigating factor in criminal sentencing.\n\nThe destruction frequently included ransacking the priest's house, and sometimes private houses suspected of sheltering church goods. There was much looting of common household goods from clergy houses and monasteries, and some street robberies of women's jewellery by the crowd; after the images were smashed and the property occupied, \"men fed their stomachs in a carnivalesque indulgence of beer, bread, butter and cheese, while women carted off provisions for the kitchen or bedroom\".\n\nThere are many accounts of rituals of inversion, in which the church sometimes stood for the whole social order. Children sometimes participated enthusiastically, and street games afterwards became play battles between \"papists\" and \"beggars\". One child was killed in Amsterdam by a stone thrown in such a game. Elsewhere the iconoclasts seemed to treat their actions as a job of work; in one city the group waited for the bell rung to mark the start of the working day before beginning their work. The tombs and memorial inscriptions of the patriciate and nobility, and in some cases royalty, were defaced or destroyed in several places, although secular public buildings such as town halls, and the palaces of the nobility, were not attacked. In Ghent, on the one hand the memorial in a church to Charles V's sister Isabel (and so Philip's aunt) was carefully left alone, but a statue in the street of Charles V and the Virgin was destroyed.\n\nThe actions were controversial among Protestants, some of whom implausibly tried to blame Catholic agent provocateurs, as it became clear that \"the more popular elements of the dissident movement were out of control\". Protestant ministers and activists returning from exile in England and elsewhere played a significant role, and individual wealthy Protestants were widely suspected of hiring men to do the work in some places, especially Antwerp.\n\nIn some rural areas gangs of iconoclasts moved across country between village churches and monasteries for several days. Elsewhere there were large crowds involved, sometimes locals, and sometimes from outside the area. In some places the nobility gave assistance, ordering the clearing of churches on their estates. Local magistracies were often opposed, but ineffective in stopping the destruction. In many towns the archer's guild, who had a function in controlling public order, took no steps against the crowds.\n\nIn 1566, unlike the situation after the Eighty Years War and today, Protestantism in the Low Countries was mainly concentrated in the south (roughly modern Belgium), and much weaker in the north (roughly now the Netherlands), and iconoclasm in the north began later, after news of the events in Antwerp was received, and was more successfully resisted by local authorities in some towns, although still succeeding in most. Once again individually socially prominent laymen often took the lead. In many places there were, or were later said to have been, false claims of official commissions from some local authority to perform the actions, and by the end of the outbreak some northern towns removed images by order of the local authority, presumably to prevent the disorder that would accompany a mob action.\n\nAnalysis of the records of the later trials show a wide range of occupations, covering craftsmen and small tradespeople, especially in the textile trade, and also a variety of church employees, at a fairly low level. Where wealth and property are recorded, it is \"modest at best\".\n\nFollowing the 1566 attacks in Antwerp there was a further period of iconoclasm there in 1581, after a Calvinist city council was elected and purged the city's clergy and guilds of Catholic office-holders. This is known as the \"quiet\" or \"stille\" beeldenstorm, as the removal of images was carried out by the institutions they belonged to, the council itself, churches and the guilds. Some images were sold rather than destroyed, but most seem to have been lost. By the summer of 1584 Antwerp was besieged by the Duke of Parma's Spanish army, falling a year later.\n\nRarely was any thought given to the artistic heritage of these cities in 1566, though families were sometimes able to protect the church monuments of their ancestors, and in Delft the syndics of the painters' Guild of Saint Luke were able to rescue the altarpiece by Maarten van Heemskerck, which the guild had commissioned only 15 years earlier.\n\nThe van Eycks' Ghent Altarpiece, then as now famous as a supreme example of Early Netherlandish painting and already a major tourist attraction, just restored in 1550, was saved by dismantling it and hiding it in the cathedral tower. A first attack on August 19 was deterred by a small number of guards. When a larger attack was made at night two days later the iconoclasts had provided themselves with a tree trunk as a battering ram, and succeeded in breaking through the doors.\n\nBy then the panels had been removed from the frame and hidden, with the guards, on the narrow spiral staircase up the tower, with a locked door at ground level. They were not detected and the crowd left after destroying what else they could find. The panels were then moved to the town hall, and only returned to view in 1569, by which time the elaborate frame had disappeared.\n\nDespite militia guards, two of the three main churches in Leiden were attacked; in the Pieterskerk the choirbooks and altarpiece by Lucas van Leyden were preserved. In the Oude Kerk in Amsterdam an altarpiece with a central panel by Jan van Scorel and side panels painted on both sides by Maarten van Heemskerck was lost. The most important works of several painters, especially those like Pieter Aertsen who worked in Antwerp, were all destroyed, leading to a somewhat distorted view of the art history of the period. An altarpiece in Culemborg had been commissioned in 1557 from the painter Jan Dey, was then destroyed in 1566 and in 1570 recommissioned from Dey, apparently as a copy of the first. However the new work was only in place for five years before it was removed when the town went officially Calvinist.\n\nOn August 23, Margaret of Parma, the Habsburg Regent or Governor-general, whose capital of Brussels was unaffected by the movement, agreed to an \"Accord\" with the group of aristocratic Protestant leaders known as the \"Compromise\" or \"Geuzen\" (\"Beggars\"), by which freedom of religion was granted, in exchange for allowing Catholics to worship unmolested and an end to the violence. Instead, \"the outbreak of the iconoclastic fury began an almost uninterrupted series of skirmishes, campaigns, plunder, pirate-raids, and other acts of violence. Not all areas suffered violence at the same time or to the same extent, but practically none remained unscathed.\"\n\nMany elite Protestants were now alarmed by the forces unleashed, and some of the nobility began to shift towards support of the government. Implementing the somewhat vague terms of the agreement led to further tensions, and William of Orange, appointed by Margaret to resolve the situation in Antwerp, tried and failed to produce a wider settlement that all parties could live with. Instead unrest continued and the episode fed into the causes of the Dutch Revolt which was to erupt two years later.\n\nOn August 29 Margaret wrote a somewhat panicked letter to Philip, \"claiming that half the population were infected with heresy, and that over 200,000 people were up in arms against her authority\". Philip decided to send the Duke of Alba with an army; he would have led them himself but was kept in Spain by other matters, especially the increasingly evident insanity of his heir, Carlos, Prince of Asturias. When Alba arrived the following year, and soon replaced Margaret as Governor-general, his heavy-handed repression, which included the execution of many convicted of iconoclastic attacks the summer before, only made the situation worse.\n\nAntwerp was then Europe's largest financial and international trading centre, taking as much as 75 or 80% of English exports of cloth, and the disturbances created serious and well-justified fears that its position as such was under threat. Sir Thomas Gresham, the English financier who arranged Elizabeth I's borrowings, and whose agent in Antwerp was Clough, left London for Antwerp on August 23, only hearing about the Antwerp attacks \"en route\"; he needed to roll-over 32,000 Flemish pounds and borrow another 20,000 to finance her expenses in Ireland. Dining with William of Orange on his arrival, he was asked if \"the English were minded to depart this town or not\", and wrote to William Cecil, Elizabeth's chief minister, \"in alarm that he \"liked none of their proceedings\" but \"apprehended great mischief\", and urged that the English government \"should do very well in time to consider some other realm and place\" for marketing English products. It was a message that helped shape the course of events.\"\n\nThe English had found the Antwerp money market short of funds since earlier in the year, and now made use of Cologne and Augsburg as well, but as events unfolded in the next year, and the personal position of some leading lenders became precarious, the English found to their surprise that repayments were no longer pressed for, probably as the lenders were happy to keep their money abroad on loan to a secure borrower. The Dutch Revolt, which from 1585 onwards included a Dutch blockade of the River Scheldt leading to the city, was to finally destroy Antwerp as a major trading centre.\nIn many places there were attempts by Calvinist preachers to take over the ransacked buildings. These were usually repulsed in the period after the attacks. In the months afterwards there were attempted negotiations in many cities, by William of Orange and others, to allocate certain churches to accommodate the local Protestants, often divided into Lutherans and Calvinists. These had mostly failed within a few weeks, not least because Margaret's government rejected them; she had already had an earlier attempt at compromise overruled by Philip a few months earlier, and been embarrassingly forced to retract a decree. Instead there was a wave of building or adapting Calvinist \"temples\", though in the end none of these were to remain in use by the following year, and their layouts, which seem to have echoed early Swiss and Scottish Calvinist designs, are now largely unknown.\n\nOnce the revolt proper had started, there were many further instances of clearing churches, some still unofficial and disorderly, but as cities became officially Protestant, increasingly undertaken by official order, like the Amsterdam Alteratie (\"Alteration\") of 1578. Altars, to which Calvinists, unlike Lutherans, took strong exception, were typically completely removed, and in some large churches, like Utrecht Cathedral, large tomb monuments put where they stood, partly to make their return more difficult if political conditions changed. After the Eighty Years War was finally over, in the cities and areas that became Protestant, the old Catholic churches were all or nearly all taken over by the new established church of the Calvinist Dutch Reformed Church, with other congregations left to shift for themselves.\n\nThe bare and empty state of those churches left in Catholic hands after the hostilities eventually ended prompted a large programme of restocking with Catholic art, which had much to do with the vigour of Northern Mannerism and later Flemish Baroque painting, and many Gothic churches were given Baroque makeovers. In the north, now very largely Protestant, religious art largely disappeared, and Dutch Golden Age painting concentrated on a wide range of secular subjects, such as genre painting, landscape art and still-lifes, with results that might sometimes have surprised the Protestant ministers who initiated the movement. According to one scholar, this \"was not only a dramatic change in the function of art, it was the context in which our present concept of art, what the literary critic M. H. Abrams called \"art as such\", first began to take shape\", replacing a \"construction model\" where art theory concerned itself with how the maker created his work, with a \"contemplation model\" concerned with the effect of the finished work on a \"lone perceiver\" or viewer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3087276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3087276", "title": "Book-and-record set", "text": "Book-and-record set\n\nBook-and-record sets are a form of entertainment for children, consisting of a picture storybook (often in comic book format, with drawings or photos) and an accompanying recording (originally in the form of a vinyl record; later in cassette tape and compact disc formats) to be played while following along with the book. The record and book complement one another, with the record usually a radio theater-style version of the story or a soundtrack recording, and the book providing visuals and text to the story. Often a tone or other kind of cue in the recording will prompt the reader to turn pages.\n\nBook-and-record sets are popular as teaching tools and aids to reading, and as a simple form of multimedia entertainment. Cartoon characters are common subjects (or stars) of the stories, as are comic book superheroes and other media franchises, characters and personalities. Occasionally popular children's or family movies are adapted for book and record; the stories may either be re-presented by a new cast of performers, members of the movie cast, or the audio taken directly from the movie, with narration added.\n\nDisneyland Records and related companies produced several such works, as did Peter Pan Records (and its offshoot Power Records) and others, from the dawn of long-playing records and the 45rpm single until the digital age. In the late 1940s and early 1950s, Capitol Records produced many book-and-record sets for children, ranging from everything from Bozo the Clown to the classical music fantasy \"Sparky's Magic Piano\". A \"picture storybook\" of the 1982 movie \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" narrated by Michael Jackson became a highly prized collectible, after it went out of print. Newer sets may still be found among recordings for children.\n"}
{"id": "2059679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059679", "title": "Cerlalc", "text": "Cerlalc\n\nThe Regional Center for the Promotion of Books in Latin America and Caribbean (CERLALC) (Spanish: \"Centro Regional para el Fomento del Libro en América Latina y el Caribe\", ) is an intergovernmental organization sponsored by UNESCO. The organization's headquarters are located in Bogotá, Colombia. Its main goal is to foster favorable conditions for the development of reading communities in Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nCERLALC has 21 member states and the organization aims its activities toward  book production and distribution; the promotion of reading and writing, the training of the actors of the book-publishing process and the stimulation and protection of intellectual creation. In this regard, it provides technical assistance in the formulation of public policies, generates knowledge, disseminates specialized information, develops and promotes training processes and promotes spaces for dialogue and cooperation.\n\nThe establishment of CERLALC was part of UNESCO’s program for the promotion of books, which took place during UNESCO’s 14th general conference in Paris, in 1966. The original project included the creation of four centres for the promotion of book production in the world: Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Arab States. The result of this conference was the beginning of one of the most successful experiences in regional integration projects around the book.\n\nOn September 7th, 1967, the Colombian government requested UNESCO that the multilateral approaches for book promotion be extended to Latin America in the Program and Budget for the years 1969-1970. The request included the creation of a regional centre for the promotion of books in Latin America as a focal point for efforts aimed at promoting the free circulation and growth of regional book production and distribution.\n\nThrough Act 0253 of February 20th, 1970, the Colombian government gave authorization to four local organizations to create the first board of directors of the centre. These organizations were Instituto Caro y Cuervo, Instituto Colombiano de Cultura, Colcultura , Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educación Superior, ICFES and Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje, SENA. The national organization was named Centro Regional para el Fomento del libro en América Latina, CERLAL. (The second “C” letter was added at a later date). The Ministers of Education and Foreign Affairs, along with the National Planning Department of Colombia, were also part of this board.\n\nOn March 3, 1970, the founding act was signed, while decree 2290 established the bylaws of CERLALC as a national organism. Following this, On April 23, 1971, in Bogotá, the Colombian government and UNESCO signed an international cooperation agreement whereby Colombia committed to transforming the organization created in 1970 into a Regional Centre. This instrument allowed the addition of all Spanish-speaking countries. The Colombian congress gave its approval through Law 27 of 1971. Gradually, in the first four years, several countries of the region joint the regional project. These active countries members  have been: Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Costa Rica, Chile, Ecuador, Panamá, Paraguay, República Dominicana, Uruguay and Venezuela.\n\nThe Agreement of International Cooperation between UNESCO and the Colombian government that governs until today, was signed in Paris on August 1, 1984 and ratified in Colombia by Law 65 of November 20, 1986. In this international agreement, the reach of the centre was extended to other geographic and linguistic areas, including the Caribbean region (Hence the second “C” letter) and to the countries of the Lusitanian Hispanic linguistic unit, even those outside geographical Latin America.\n\n\nThe CERLALC is composed by a council. This superior organism is in charge to approve all of the political guidelines which rule the CERLALC. The council meeting is biennial and it is composed (made-up) by:\n\n\nThe chair of the Council is under the rule of Mrs Patricia Balbuena, Culture Minister of Perú.\n\nThere is also an Executive Committee which is integrated by a deputy of six countries from the 21 current countries members. They are chosen one by a council and they are elected for a biennial period, In addition to this, there is a (delegate) agent  from the UNESCO’S director and the representatives of the ministry of Foreign affairs and Education from Colombia.\n\nAmong its main functions are: Approval of the technical guidelines and the current budget of the organization as well as the control over the general functionality of the CERLALC and the execution of the programs according to the basic guidelines and parameters embraced by the main Council.\n\nThis administrative organ meets annually and the executive committee consists of:\n\n\nThe presidency of the executive committee its under El Salvador's control.\n\nTo fulfil its main statements, CERLALC leads and supports local and regional actions in the following plans of action.\n\n\nCERLALC's first headquarters was granted by Colombia's Ministry of Education. It was located in the historical center of Bogotá. Due to staff extension, a new headquarters was needed soon after. That is why in 1973, the CERLALC acquired its new and current main office.\n\n"}
{"id": "39776067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39776067", "title": "Change Over Time", "text": "Change Over Time\n\nChange Over Time is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering the history, theory, and practice of conservation and the built environment. Each issue is devoted to a particular theme. The journal was established in 2011 and is published by the University of Pennsylvania Press and available online through Project MUSE. The editor-in-chief is Frank Matero (University of Pennsylvania). The journal received the 2012 Association of American University Presses' Design Award for Best Journal Design.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the Arts & Humanities Citation Index and Current Contents/Arts & Humanities.\n\n"}
{"id": "7604397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7604397", "title": "Church of San Juan Bautista, Baños de Cerrato", "text": "Church of San Juan Bautista, Baños de Cerrato\n\nThe Church of San Juan Bautista or San Juan Bautista de Baños de Cerrato is an ancient stone Early Medieval church (traditionally taken to be Visigothic) dedicated to St John the Baptist in the town of Baños de Cerrato, ancient \"Balneos\", in the province of Palencia, in central Spain. \n\nThe church is located in the fertile Pisuerga River valley, near the confluence with the Carrión River. The nearby town of Venta de Baños is presently larger and more important than Baños de Cerrato. In Roman times, the area was devoted to vacationing and relaxation, with many private villas dotting the landscape. In Roman times as under the Visigoths, this was an important grain-producing region.\nAn original church (which is not the one currently standing) was commissioned by the Visigothic king Recceswinth of Hispania (the Iberian Peninsula, comprising modern Spain and Portugal), in the year 661 and whose solemn consecration ceremony is believed to have taken place on the 3rd of January, 661. It has a consecration inscription over its entry, in awkward capital letters. This text is also preserved in a codex of the 10th century, copied from a Toledan manuscript from the 8th century. A literal translation would be:\nThe church was built as a royal foundation under the control of the Bishops of Palencia. The excavations that were carried out in 1956 and 1963 yielded a medieval necropolis of 58 tombs to the north-west of the church and discovered three pieces of 7th-century bronze: two belt buckles in the shape of a lyre and one liturgical object.\n\nThe most recent archaeological studies have proven it to be not Visigothic, but Mozarabic (so, 9th century or more probably 10th century in date). Some arguments for this date include the odd inscription (which is a re-carve of the Visigothic original in non-Visigothic lettering), its unusual layout, the use of ashlar (unparalleled in buildings archaeologically dated to the Visigothic period), and the evident mismatched use of earlier 'Visigothic' carved stones in the frieze.\n\nThe church construction is of ashlar (squared stone, as against irregular rubble) set in a drywall manner (with no mortar). It and several other Visigothic churches built in Spain about the same time represent the last ashlar construction in western Europe until Charlemagne, and can be seen as the end of that ancient Roman building tradition in the west. George R.H. Wright notes the Syrian influence seen in the horseshoe-shaped arch in pre-Islamic Spain. The belfry above was added at a later date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24870003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24870003", "title": "Cracks (film)", "text": "Cracks (film)\n\nCracks is a 2009 British independent psychological thriller drama film directed by Jordan Scott, starring Eva Green, Juno Temple, María Valverde, and Imogen Poots. It was released theatrically in the United Kingdom and Ireland on 4 December 2009. In the United States it was released by IFC Films on 18 March 2011, and premiered on Showtime in late 2011.\n\nThe film was produced in May 2008, written for the screen by Caroline Ip, Ben Court and Jordan Scott, based on the 1999 novel written by Sheila Kohler. Kwesi Dickson, Andrew Lowe, Julie Payne, Rosalie Swedlin and Christine Vachon were the producers. Ridley and Tony Scott served as executive producers. The film was mostly filmed in County Wicklow, Ireland.\n\nSet in the 1930s in a strict elite British boarding school called St Mathilda's, the story centers on a clique of girls who idolize their enigmatic diving instructor, Miss G (Eva Green) (in the film, we learn that Miss G had been a student at the same school where she now works and, in fact, may have even continued on at the school after she graduated). Di Radfield (Juno Temple) has a crush on Miss G, and is the firm favourite and ringleader of her group. When a beautiful Spanish girl named Fiamma Corona (María Valverde) arrives at the school, Miss G's focus is shifted away from the other girls. It becomes a triangle: Miss G gets increasingly obsessed with Fiamma, Fiamma is disturbed by Miss G and also openly disgusted by the teacher's hypocrisies and deceptions, and Di is terribly jealous and makes Fiamma's life hell.\n\nIn a very telling scene in the film that clearly highlighted Miss G's deceptions, Miss G (who claimed to be a world traveller to her \"girls\") goes to a nearby parochial town to buy some provisions. She is visibly upset by this trip and after buying her provisions and drawing the unwanted attention of some local louts, she returns to the school in, it would seem, a near panic. The bullying culminates in Di physically throwing Fiamma out of the school but, as she is unable to return to Spain as she hoped, Fiamma ends up back at the school later that night.\n\nWhen Fiamma is eventually found, the two girls make the first steps towards friendship, and at the following dorm party they all get a bit drunk, and Fiamma faints. Miss G takes her to her own room. Then Miss G kisses her and rapes her while she is passed out; Di witnesses this through the room door, which was left ajar, and then flees.\n\nThe next morning, Fiamma is visibly upset, and Miss G is equally distressed as she runs around after her. Di is broody, and eventually tells the rest of her gang that \"Fiamma\" seduced Miss G. Fiamma presumably tells Miss G that she will report the molestation to the teachers, and horrified, Miss G realises her career will be over. She in turn manipulates Di's affection for her into anger. She says that Fiamma will make up lies about her molesting her (even though it was true) and plan to get her kicked out of school. Di absolutely refuses to allow this to happen.\n\nThe confrontation between Di's gang and Fiamma turns ugly as Fiamma declines to answer Di's vicious questions and tries to explain what really happened, hinting at Miss G's lies and character defects. Fiamma runs into the forest as things become more violent, but the girls catch up with her and, under Di's leadership, beat her up with their fists and sticks. Fiamma starts to have an asthma attack, and the girls stop, terrified. They run to get help, and Di runs into Miss G (who had been watching the beating and the chase that ensued quietly and with no attempt to stop the beating), who says she'll stay with Fiamma, and directs Di to go get a teacher.\n\nIn the forest, Miss G, alone with Fiamma, refuses to give Fiamma her inhaler and calmly watches her die. Di returns just in time to see Miss G placing the inhaler in Fiamma's lifeless hand, and that's when she realizes the truth.\n\nLater, Di tells the other girls what happened and, united, they confront Miss G. They are powerless officially, but they quit the diving team and symbolically turn in their sashes. The headmistress refuses to acknowledge the school's culpability, and seems only concerned with the school's reputation, but releases Miss G from her duties.\n\nThe final scene has Di leaving the school to explore the world, as both Fiamma and Miss G had spoken of doing, whilst Miss G, fired from the school, goes to the local village and finds a small room she can live in, presumably closing herself away for the rest of her life. In a scene that perhaps allows the viewer a better understanding of Miss G's very complex personality, we see her put her few personal possessions on her bedside table. She puts one item there and then quickly removes it to make room for another item. After that, she counts the items to make sure that there are only five. The viewer is then reminded that when Fiamma arrived at the school, in the dorm room, Di had told her that only five personal items could be displayed on her night table at one time. The audience then realizes Miss G is as much a victim of the institutionalized setting she grew up in (she was perhaps like many of the girls at the school \"dumped\" there and basically forgotten about by her family) as Fiamma was her victim.\n\n\n\"Cracks\" received a mixed reception from critics. It has a score of 43% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 47 critic reviews. On Metacritic, the film has a score of 54 out of 100 based on 12 critic reviews.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53910544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53910544", "title": "Daedalus Flight Pack", "text": "Daedalus Flight Pack\n\nThe Daedalus Flight Pack is a jet pack capable of achieving flying ability, hovering and powered jumps. It was invented by British inventor, Richard Browning, an athlete and Royal Marine Reservist. The flight pack is different to other man portable flight packs in that it uses jets attached to the hands and feet. These enable it to be directed by moving the arms.\n\nRichard Browning first started work on the project in the year 2016. The suit has been likened to the comic character Iron Man. Browning formed his own company, Gravity, and used his own funding for development work.\nThe first published test flight was revealed at the 2017 TED conference in Vancouver. Browning experimented with different numbers, configurations and arrays of jets, with varying degrees of success, before coming up with his current configuration. While initial funding came from Browning himself, since the success of the project, he has received promotional support from the Red Bull energy drink company.\n\nThe jets and powerpack are affixed to the wearer with a metal frame. Current maximum flying time is about 10 minutes, and the system uses six micro-gas turbines and can achieve full flight. Projected initial cost for purchase is $250,000 USD, although this projection is expected to come down after full production. The flight pack can reach altitudes of 2000 feet, thought it is envisaged normal used would be traveling at only three or four metres above the ground.\n. Browning says of the technology: “Our mission is to build an inspirational technology company by re-imagining the future of human flight and pioneering aeronautical innovation.”. Much like the Comic book character Iron Man, the flight pack incorporates a heads up display which displays for the user operating information, including top speed, fuel left, etc.\n\nGravity, Browning's company that produces the flight pack, have said that the user will require to be vetted before use. The Daedalus flight pack broke a record for speed for a flight pack, awarded by Guinness book of records \n"}
{"id": "53229017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53229017", "title": "Early Netherlandish Painting (Friedländer)", "text": "Early Netherlandish Painting (Friedländer)\n\nEarly Netherlandish Painting (German: Die altniederländische Malerei) is a pioneering 14-volume series of illustrated books by the German art historian Max Jakob Friedländer (1867–1958). The first volume was published in 1924, and the series ran until 1937. It was the first comprehensive modern art-historical survey of Early Netherlandish painting, a term often used in art history to describe artists of the Low Countries during the 15th- and 16th-century Northern Renaissance.\n\nFriedländer developed an interest in northern art of the period while director of the Kaiser-Friedrich-Museum in the late 1920s and early 1930s. The collection included a large selection of Flemish paintings, including Jan van Eyck's \"Madonna in the Church\", Rogier van der Weyden's \"Miraflores Altarpiece\" and \"Altar of Saint John\", and Hugo van der Goes' \"Adoration of the Maji\". Friedländer was struck by the lack of biographical detail on even the most accomplished of the artists, some of whom were still identified by notnames, the sometimes poorly supported attributions, and general historical neglect.\n\nThe book focuses on establishing biographical details for the painters, attributing individual works, and detailing their major stylistic themes and techniques. The undertaking was extremely difficult, given the scant historical record of even the most significant artists.\n\nThe series was a major influence on Erwin Panofsky's equally seminal \"Early Netherlandish Painting\", which expanded on Friedländer's biographical and stylistic analysis to focus on iconography, intended meaning and historical context.\n\n"}
{"id": "10275895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10275895", "title": "Folklore of the Maldives", "text": "Folklore of the Maldives\n\nMaldivian mythology or Maldivian folklore is the body of myths, tales and anecdotes belonging to the oral tradition of Maldivians. Even though some of the Maldivian myths were already mentioned briefly by British commissioner in Ceylon HCP Bell towards the end of the 19th century, their study and publication were carried out only quite recently by Spanish writer and artist Xavier Romero-Frias, at a time when that ancestral worldview was quickly disappearing.\n\nThe Maldives lie in the warm equatorial area of the Indian Ocean surrounded by very deep waters. This nation is made up exclusively of coral atolls. There are about 1,200 small flat and sandy islands, but only about 200 of them are inhabited.\n\nThe Maldives have been continuously populated for millennia; therefore the folklore of these islands is very ancient.\n\nThe main myths of origin are reflecting the dependence of the Maldivians on the coconut tree and the tuna fish.\n\nA legend says that the first inhabitants of the Maldives died in great numbers, but a great sorcerer or \"fanḍita\" man made coconut trees grow out of the skulls of the buried corpses of the first settlers. Therefore, the coconut tree is said to have an anthropomorphic origin according to Maldive lore.\n\nThe coconut tree occupies a central place in the present-day Maldive national emblem.\n\nThe tuna fish is said to have been brought to the Maldivian waters by a mythical seafarer (\"maalimi\") called Bodu Niyami Kalēfanu who went close to the Dagas (the mythical tree at the end of the world) to bring this valuable fish.\n\nThese myths tell that the end of the Maldives will be a great catastrophe where the islands will be submerged by the surrounding ocean. Similar myths are found in the Andaman Islands as well as in the Nicobar Islands.\n\nThe first settlers in the Maldive Islands were Dravidian people from the nearest coasts, which are in the Indian Subcontinent and coastal Ceylon. The people of Giraavaru, an island located in Malé Atoll (now a tourist resort, after its inhabitants were removed) considered the first settlers, claim ancestry from the ancient Tamil people.\n\nIt is said that Giraavaru fishermen used to go regularly to a certain large sandbank (\"finolhu\") at the southern end of their atoll to clean tuna fish after a good catch. Owing to the large amount of tuna fish offal and blood, the waters around that sandbank looked like a big pool of blood (\"maa ley gande\"h). \"Maa\" (from the Sanskrit \"Maha\"), meaning big, and \"Lē\" meaning blood. Traditionally the first inhabitants of the Maldives, which include the Giraavaru people, didn't have kings. They lived in a simple society and were ruled by local headmen.\n\nOne day a prince from the Subcontinent called Koimala arrived to Malé Atoll sailing from the north on a big ship. The people of Giraavaru spotted his vessel from afar and welcomed him. They allowed Prince Koimala to settle on that large sandbank in the midst of the waters tainted with fishblood. Trees were planted on the sandbank and it is said that the first tree that grew on it was the papaya tree. As time went by the local islanders accepted the rule of this Northern Prince. A palace was built and the island was formally named Maa-le Malé, while the nearest island was named Hulhu-le (Hulhulé).\n\nMost of the popular tales in Maldives are about evil spirits and their interaction with the islanders. These stories contain always a lesson in some form or the other. Certain actions became necessary in order to avoid trouble with the spirit world. These patterns of behaviour, like the importance of keeping a secret, as well as the avoidance of certain areas of the island and of inauspicious times, were an essential component of the ancient popular spirituality.\n\nThe Maldivian spirits can take human form, even if it is not known whether they have a human origin or not. While in human shape, the malevolence of those spirits is often masked by beauty and youth. Certain Maldivian evil spirits (handi) have the appearance of charming, beautiful women. These stories about female spirits have their origin in the Ancient Dravidian Village Goddess worship and they point to the ethnic origin of the Maldive people.\nOther evil spirits which are the subject of many folk stories in the Maldives (\"furēta\") are crude monsters coming from the ocean waters. The tales about sea monsters are part of the local cultural background, which is characterized by the oceanic environment in which, along the millennia, the Maldivian culture developed.\n\nAmong the stories in which the spirit and sorcery theme are not essential, the most significant is perhaps Don Hiyalā and Alifulhu, the story of an extraordinarily beautiful woman, or \"faiiymini\" as called by Maldivians, who gets kidnapped from her husband Alifulhu by a villainous king. The lovers reunite at the end of the story, however, their reunion is short lived as they are soon pursued by the King's henchmen. Instead of being captured by the King's men again, Dhonhiyala chooses to commit suicide, and Ali Fulhu follows suit.\n\nFolktales where fishes, crabs and seabirds are the heroes, like the tales about Mākana, Findana, Kalhubondage Diye, Fandiyaaru Kakuni, or Don Mohonaai Miyaru, introduce us to the world of the local fauna of the Maldive Atolls, where land animals are very few. Many of these are tales for children and some are still quite popular. \nAlthough most of the stories of this type are original, a few are foreign tales or fables which have been adapted to the island context through local storytellers or by Maldivian learned men, like the late Muhammad Jamil.\n\nIn the ancestral oral literature of Maldivians, the sorcerer, or learned man of the island who knew the magic arts. Magic or sorcery is known in Maldives as \"fanḍita\".\n\nThe Maldivian sorcerer or \"fanḍita veriyaa\" is always portrayed in the folklore of Maldivians as a hero. Only he knew how to appease the spirits that terrified the average island folk on a daily (or better nightly) basis. Some recent stories tend to cast the sorcerer in the role of a villain, but these are totally disconnected from the ancestral Maldive lore.\n\nAccording to the well-known Moroccan traveler Ibn Batuta, the person responsible for converting the Maldivians to Islam as a Sunni Muslim visitor named Abu al Barakat ul Barbari. He subdued Ranna Maari, a demon coming from the sea and convinced the King to become a Muslim.\n\nHowever, the more reliable local historical chronicles, \"Raadavalhi\" and \"Taarikh\", mention that this saint was actually a Persian from the city of Tabriz, called Yusuf Shamsud-din. He is also locally known as Tabrīzugefānu.\nThe much venerated tomb of this saint now stands opposite the grounds of Hukuru Miski, in the centre of Malé, the capital.\n\nStories about local characters, like Rōnu Eduru, Kuda Tuttu Didi, Kalhukuru or Naalaafushi Fagīru (the poor man of Naalaafushi) give us a glimpse on the way of life in the Maldives when the archipelago was a kingdom, and Malé, the capital, was a quaint, laid back place. In those stories we learn much about the life in the court in Malé and about the mutual interaction between the Radun (the king of Maldives) and his subjects.\n\nSince there are a great number of islands in the Maldives, many folkstories have different versions according to the particular island and the storyteller in question. \nIn recent times some stories have been abridged by contemporary Maldivian writers, like Abdulla Sadiq or Ahumadu Sharīfu (Maradū) because of their extreme length.\nOther stories (Karukuru, Telabagudi and the Māmeli tales) have been sanitized, because there was much casual reference to defecation and bodily fluids, particularly in ancient folk-stories from the outer atolls, where local values found this acceptable.\n\nKoimala Siri Mahaabarana Mahaa Radun (Dhivehi: ކޮއިމަލާ ސިރީ މަހާބަރަނަ މަހާ ރަދުން) or Koimala (Dhivehi: ކޮއިމަލާ literally \"flower lad\") or Koimala Kalo (Dhivehi: ކޮއިމަލާ ކަލޯ, literally \"Lord Koimala\") is a myth about the first king of all the Maldive Islands.\nSome versions of the Koimala myth claim that it refers to the first ruler of the Maldives after the conversion to Islam, also known as \"Dharumavantha rasgefaanu\", who ruled from 1117 to 1141. It is believed that he was also the first king from the House of Theemuge and the Lunar Dynasty. By other accounts he was the fourth king of the Lunar Dynastry founded by King Balaadeettiya as the Soma Vansa Kingdom; although until Koimala the house only ruled over part of the Maldives.\n\nHowever, ascribing the legend to the first Islamic ruler does not explain who built the large Buddhist monuments that are present in many inhabited islands and that were built in the first millennium AD. It also leaves without explaining the existence of an ancient kingly dynasty in the Maldives already before the conversion, as the 12th century correspondence from the king to the Sangumanun, or community of Buddhist monks, in Sathudhuvumati (Haddummati Atoll) via copper plates proves.\n\nAccording to Maldivian Folklore, Koimala was a prince from the Indian subcontinent who arrived in Malé Atoll. The people of Giraavaru spotted his vessel from afar and welcomed him. They allowed Prince Koimala to settle on that large sandbank in the midst of the waters tainted with fishblood. Trees were planted on the sandbank and it is said that the first tree that grew on it was the papaya tree. As time went by the local islanders accepted the rule of this northern prince. A palace was built and the island was formally named Maa-le (Malé), while the nearest island was named Hulhu-le (Hulhulé). Since then Malé has been the seat of the Maldivian crown and now the head of state.\n\nA different account claims Koimala to be a Sinhalese prince of royal birth from Ceylon. The prince is said to have married the Ceylon king's daughter and made a voyage with her in two vessels from Ceylon. Reaching the Maldives they were becalmed, and rested a while at \"Rasgetheemu\" island (meaning the King's Island) in Northern Maalhosmadulhu Atoll. The Maldive Islanders who were then Buddhists, learning that the two chief visitors were of royal descent from the Buddhist kingdom of Ceylon, invited them to remain and ultimately proclaimed Koimala their king at Rasgetheemu. The new king and his spouse migrated to Malé and settled there with the consent of the aborigines of Giraavaru (See Giraavaru people) - then the most important community of Malé Atoll. Until then the Maldives is thought to have been ruled by different matriarchies in different atolls.\n\nAfter the settlement in Male', two vessels were dispatched to bring more people of his race to populate Male'. It wasn't tradition for the Giraavaru and perhaps other aboriginal people of the Maldives to marry outside their community.\n\nIt is not clear, how much of this legend is true. Although he might have been the first king of the whole of Maldives, the story of a prince might actually be a corruption of the stories of King Soorudasaruna-Adeettiya and King Balaadeettiya- both exiled princes from the Kalinga Kingdom of India who founded the Solar and Lunar Dynastries of the Maldives. According to this source (\"Kitab fi Athaari Meedoo el-Qadimiyyeh\" by Allama Ahmed Shihabuddine relating from The \"Maapanansa\" copper plates), Koimala or Siri Mahaabarana, the son of King Siri Bovana Aananda was the fourth king of the Lunar Dynastry and uncle to King Dhovemi (Siri Bavana-adiththa) the first Sultan (Muslim king) of the Maldives.\n\nKoimala is said to have become the King of the 14 atolls and two thousand islands of the \"Dheeva Mahal\". His kingdom was referred to as being \"Malikaddu dhemedhu\"- or 'all that lies between the Maliku and Addu. He fought against the Raja Dada's (or the forces of the Tamil emperor Raja Raja Chola I of the Chola empire) Indians to claim the two northern most atolls for the newly formed Maldivian kingdom. \nKoimala was succeeded by his nephew Dhovemi Kalaminja in 1141.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12827691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12827691", "title": "Grateful dead (folklore)", "text": "Grateful dead (folklore)\n\nGrateful dead (or grateful ghost) is a folktale present in many cultures throughout the world. The most common story involves a traveler who encounters a corpse of someone who never received a proper burial, typically stemming from an unpaid debt. The traveler then either pays off the dead person's debt or pays for burial. The traveler is later rewarded or has their life saved by a person or animal who is actually the soul of the dead person; the grateful dead is a form of the donor.\n\nThe \"grateful dead\" story is Aarne–Thompson–Uther type 505.\n\nAn ancient Egyptian text explains the principle of reciprocity in which the deceased calls for a blessing on the person who remembers his name and helps him into a happy afterlife:\nBut if there be a man, any one whomsoever, who beholdeth this writing and causeth my soul and my name to become established among those who are blessed, let it be done for him likewise after his final arriving (at the end of life's voyage) in recompense for what was done by him for me, Osiris.\n\nOne variant is the Book of Tobit. The chivalric romance \"Amadas\" has the title knight pay his last coins for such a burial. It appears in various fairy tales, such as the Italian \"Fair Brow\", the Swedish \"The Bird 'Grip'\" and H. C. Andersen's \"The Traveling Companion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57225374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57225374", "title": "Herzl paints Herzl", "text": "Herzl paints Herzl\n\nHerzl paints Herzl is a series of exhibitions that ran from 1 October 2016 to 2018 in six locations across Europe and Israel. It was created by digital painter Israel Herzl, a fourth cousin of Theodor Herzl. He was joined by fellow Israeli artists Shai Yehezkeli, Yael Bar Tana, and Boaz Arad.\n\nThe exhibition commemorated the 120th anniversary of the First Zionist Congress in Basel, in 1897. Within eight years, Herzl had positioned Zionism as a world movement with institutions that led to the establishment of the State of Israel.\n\nThe first exhibition opened in the Herzl Museum on Mount Herzl in Jerusalem on 1 October 2016. Foreign Ministry Director General Yuval Rotem heard about the exhibition at the Herzl Museum. He was deeply impressed and asked to present it in four other exhibitions under the sponsorship of the Foreign Ministry – in Jerusalem, Vienna, Geneva and Basel.\n\nThe exhibition was shown in the:\n\n\nThe last exhibition in Europe was at the University of Geneva in November 2017; in Israel, at Kfar Saba in January 2018.\n\nRotem said at the opening of the exhibition in the Foreign Ministry gallery: \"The exhibition is unique in that it is dedicated to one personality, and the exhibition came to the Foreign Ministry after it was presented for the last three months at the Herzl Museum on Mount Herzl, after an extension due to its success. The exhibition was made available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by Israel Herzl, who combined his special skills in digital painting with his familiarity with the image of the state's dreamer\".\n\nBecause the words of Berl Katznelson, the founder of Labor Zionism - \"I have a fear that the next generation will know Herzl as a name, a slogan, a flag, or at most a fine legend\" and the words of Amos Ayalon, Herzl's modern biographer - \"In today's Israel, Herzl is at most the name of a street\", the purpose of this exhibition was that no Jew will forget what the Israeli nation owes to Herzl and his dream.\n\nThe duration of the exhibitions was seven months. Over 5,000 visitors visited these exhibitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "59133540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59133540", "title": "Ihlara valley", "text": "Ihlara valley\n\nThe Ihlara Valley (or Peristrema Valley; Turkish \"Ihlara Vadisi\") is a canyon which is 15 km long and up to 150 m deep in the southwest of the Turkish region of Cappadocia, in the municipality of Güzelyurt, Aksaray Province. The valley contains around 50 rock-hewn churches and numerous rock-cut buildings.\n\nThe canyon was formed in prehistoric times by the . It lies between the villages of Ihlara in the southeast and Selime in the northwest. At the north end of the village of Ihlara, there is a stairway with almost 400 steps, which descends over 100 m down into the canyon. From the 7th century AD, the valley was settled by Byzantine monks who dug their houses and churches out of the tuff stone, which had been deposited by the eruptions of Mount Hasan. The earlier Greek name, \"Peristrema\" (Περιστρημα; winding round) of the village of Belisarma which is located about halfway along the valley from Ihlara to Selime, gave its name to the valley as well.\n\nThe churches in the valley fall into two groups. The first consists of the churches near the village of Ihlara, which are decorated with paintings of a local Cappadocian type that show influence from Persia and Syria to the east. They mostly pre-date the Iconoclasm, but were often repainted in newer styles over time. The second group is located near the village of Belisarma and consists of churches in the Byzantine style of the tenth and eleventh centuries, known as Macedonian art. \n\nThe first group includes:\n\nThe second group includes:\n\nIn the Niğde Archaeological Museum, there is a display of the mummies of a woman and four children who were entombed in the Ihlara Valley in the 10th century AD. The Aksaray Museum also has mummies from the Ihlara valley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57912544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57912544", "title": "Kalabsh (Egyptian TV-Series)", "text": "Kalabsh (Egyptian TV-Series)\n\nKalabsh \"(Handcuff)\" is a 2017 Egyptian drama and suspense TV-Series directed by Peter Mimy and starring Amir Karara in the role of Sleim El-Ansary, a most confident and honest policeman. The series is based on a story written by Yousef Hasan Yousef, then dramatized and scripted by Baher Dewidar.\n\nA sequel was released in 2018, and it is assumed that a third season will be broadcast during Ramadan 2019.\n\nDirector Mohamed Bakeer was supposed to direct the show, but that didn't happen due to disagreements with producer Muhammed Abdel Hamid, which led to assigning young director Peter Mimy to direct Klabash 1, 2 and working on the third season.. Mimy is known with his style mimicking Hollywood crime flicks and working with western artists\n\nMimy, Karara and others stated that the production team got big help from Egyptian police ministry on the two seasons of the series, also more logistic and influencing cooperation, to deliver a good message of the honest police man who fights for the right, and also other re-accruing problems that affects Egypt at this particular period, such as Islamic militias, however, the director stated that there were no interfere by them on the show. However, Some criticized the pro-government themes in the show considering is a direct propaganda from biased points of view.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26553380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26553380", "title": "Keith Arnatt", "text": "Keith Arnatt\n\nArnatt was born in Oxford.\n\nHe had studied painting at Oxford School of Art in the early 1950s and later at the Royal Academy Schools in London. From 1962 he taught at Liverpool and then, until 1969, Manchester. At this time he was living in and working from a farmhouse on the Yorkshire/Lancashire border. In 1969 he moved to Tintern in Monmouthshire. Liverpool (the beach at Formby); the moors around his farmhouse in Todmorden, Yorkshire; and his garden surrounded by woodland in Tintern, are settings for works.\n\nBy the end of the 1960s Arnatt’s work was associated with the new conceptual art movement. A number of writers connected conceptual art with a general reductionist tendency in contemporary art of the time using phrases like ‘dematerialization’ and referring to the influence of minimalism and in particular the influence of Robert Morris in relating the presentation of art objects to the contexts of their viewing in a way that sought to activate those contexts.\n\nArnatt took part in a number of influential exhibitions of conceptual art including 'Konzeption-Conception, Städtichen Museum, Leverkusen', 1969; 'Information', MoMA, New York, 1970; 'Umwelt-Akzente / Die Expansion der Kunst', Kunstkreis Monschau, 1970 and 'Art as Idea in England', CAYC (Centro de Arte y Comunicación), Buenos Aires, 1971.\n\nSome works from this period, including \"Self-Burial\" in the version documenting the WDR televised \"Self-Burial (Television Interference Project)\" (1969), and \"Trouser-Word Piece\" (1972-89 version) are held in the Tate collection. MoMA, New York has an Art + Project authorised time slice of the work \"1220400 - 0000000\" (1970). The Henry Moore Institute in Yorkshire holds examples of early materials and the V&A Museum has examples of proposals. Some materials that Arnatt gave to Robert Smithson in the form of documentation of proposals were donated to LACMA, Los Angeles by Nancy Holt. Tate Archive has material relating to proposals by the artist including correspondence with the writer Barbara Reise. Other works, for example \"I have decided to go to the Tate Gallery next Friday\" (1971), and \"Art and Egocentricity – A Perlocutionary Act?\" (1971) were visual/textual hybrids and were intended to be realised in specific circumstances.\n\nFrom the mid 1970s onwards \"The Visitors\" (1974-6), \"Walking the Dog\" (1976-9), \"Gardeners\" (1978-9), \"A.O.N.B.\" (1982-5) and series such as \"Miss Grace's Lane\" (1986-7) and \"Howler's Hill\" (1987-8) make directly realist evidential references in their uses of settings. Here, where Arnatt was using the camera in a first-order way and there has been some theorising over the extent of his influence on contemporary photographic practice, there still remains an overriding continuity in the form of analytic and self-disclosing interests in his work. In late series like \"Painter’s Cans\" (1990), \"Notes from Jo\" (1991-95), and \"Labels Borrowed/Stolen\" (1993-95) Arnatt continued to investigate objects with something very close to the type of manipulative detachment originally shown in early works. \n"}
{"id": "29944855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29944855", "title": "Kell Muñoz Architects", "text": "Kell Muñoz Architects\n\nMuñoz and Company (formerly, Kell Muñoz Architects) is a leading architecture firm based in San Antonio, Texas, USA. Founded in 1927, the firm specializes in the design of major academic, K-12, healthcare, scientific and infrastructure projects. It is the largest minority-owned design and management firm in the state of Texas.\n\nAmong their latest works is designing a new $150 million Courthouse for the City of San Antonio.\n\nThe founders were John Kell, Sr. (1903–2002) and Bartlett Cocke. Kell's mentor was O'Neil Ford.\n\nMuñoz and Company has won over 130 juried design awards at the local, state and national levels for a variety of projects.\n\nThis list includes projects in which Muñoz and Company collaborated with other architecture firms:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46430975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46430975", "title": "Leadville (book)", "text": "Leadville (book)\n\nLeadville is a book by English writer Edward Platt, published in 2000 by Picador. It won both the John Llewellyn Rhys Prize and the Somerset Maugham Award. Cambridge History of Science lecturer Patricia Fara selected it as one of her books of the decade.\n\nSubtitled \"A Biography of the A40\" and with the strapline \"A Journey from White City to the Hangar Lane Gyratory\" it tells the story of Western Avenue, an arterial road in West London primarily through the words of its residents whom the author visited between 1995 and 1998. At this time many of the houses on the road were being compulsorily purchased and demolished in preparation for a road widening scheme which was later cancelled. Interspersed with the views of the residents are historical accounts of the road's development and wider views on town planning and traffic management, prominently those of Le Corbusier and Robert Moses.\n\n"}
{"id": "33015362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33015362", "title": "List of female role-playing game professionals", "text": "List of female role-playing game professionals\n\nThis is a list of female individuals that have worked professionally in the field of creating role-playing games, including designers, editors, and artists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813341", "title": "Lucia Joyce", "text": "Lucia Joyce\n\nLucia Anna Joyce (26 July 1907, Trieste – 12 December 1982, Northampton) was a professional dancer and the daughter of Irish writer James Joyce and Nora Barnacle. Once treated by Swiss psychoanalyst Carl Jung, Joyce was diagnosed as schizophrenic in the mid 1930s and institutionalized at the Burghölzli psychiatric clinic in Zurich. In 1951, Joyce was transferred to St Andrew's Hospital in Northampton, where she remained until her death in 1982.\n\nLucia Anna Joyce was born in the Ospedale Civico di Trieste on 26 July 1907. She was the second child of Irish writer James Joyce and his partner (later wife) Nora Barnacle, after her brother Giorgio. Her parents being expatriates living in Trieste, Lucia's first language was Italian. In her younger years, she trained as a dancer at the Dalcroze Institute in Paris. Joyce studied dancing from 1925 to 1929, training first with Jacques Dalcroze, followed by Margaret Morris (granddaughter of William Morris), and later with Raymond Duncan (brother of Isadora Duncan) at his school near Salzburg.[2] In 1927, she danced a short duet as a toy soldier in Jean Renoir’s film adaptation of Hans Christian Andersen's \"La Petite marchande d’allumettes\" (The Little Match Girl). She furthered her studies under Lois Hutton, Hélène Vanel, and Jean Borlin, lead dancer of the Ballet suédois.\n\nIn 1928, she joined \"Les Six de rythme et couleur,\" a commune of six female dancers that were soon performing at venues in France, Austria, and Germany. After a performance in La Princesse Primitive at the Vieux-Colombier theatre, the \"Paris Times\" wrote of her, \"Lucia Joyce is her father’s daughter. She has James Joyce’s enthusiasm, energy, and a not-yet-determined amount of his genius. When she reaches her full capacity for rhythmic dancing, James Joyce may yet be known as his daughter’s father.\"[5] \n\nOn 28 May 1929, she was chosen as one of six finalists in the first international festival of dance in Paris held at the Bal Bullier. Although she did not win, the audience, which included her father and the young Samuel Beckett, championed her performance as outstanding and loudly protested the jury’s verdict. Her relationship with Samuel Beckett was one of unrequited affection. Allegedly, when Lucia was 21, she and Beckett, who was her father's secretary for a short time, became lovers. Their relationship lasted only a short while and ended after Beckett, who was involved with another woman at the time, admitted he was solely interested in having a professional relationship with James Joyce.\n\nAt the age of 22, Joyce, after years of rigorous dedication and long hours of practice, decided \"she was not physically strong enough to be a dancer of any kind\". Announcing she would become a teacher, she then \"turned down an offer to join a group in Darmstadt and effectively gave up dancing.\"\n\nHer biographer Carol Shloss, however, argues that it was her father who finally put an end to her dancing career. James reasoned that the intense physical training for ballet caused her undue stress which in turn exacerbated the long-standing animosity between her and her mother Nora. The resulting incessant domestic squabbles prevented work on \"Finnegans Wake\". James convinced her she should turn to drawing lettrines to illustrate his prose and forgo her deep-seated artistic inclinations. To his patron Harriet Shaw Weaver, James Joyce wrote that this resulted in \"a month of tears as she thinks she has thrown away three or four years of hard work and is sacrificing a talent\".\n\nJoyce started to show signs of mental illness in 1930, a year after she began casually dating the 23-year-old Samuel Beckett, then a junior lecturer in English at the Ecole normale supérieure in Paris. In May 1930, while her parents were in Zurich, she invited Beckett to dinner, hoping \"to press him into some kind of declaration.\" He flatly rejected her, explaining that he was only interested in her father and his writing. In his biography of James Joyce, Gordon Bowker argues that the underlying reasons for the rejection were Beckett's keen awareness of the \"strong unfulfilled erotic bond between Lucia and her father\" and her need to find \"a genius father-substitute\", together with \"her predilection for unprotected sex.\"\n\nBy 1934, she had participated in several failed affairs, with her drawing teacher Alexander Calder, another expatriate artist Albert Hubbell, and Myrsine Moschos, assistant to Sylvia Beach of Shakespeare and Company. As the year wore on, her condition had deteriorated to the point that James had Carl Gustav Jung take her in as a patient. Soon after, she was diagnosed with schizophrenia at the Burghölzli psychiatric clinic in Zurich. In 1936, James consented to have his daughter undergo blood tests at St Andrew's Hospital in Northampton. After a short stay, Lucia Joyce insisted she return to Paris, the doctors explaining to her father that she could not be prevented from doing so unless he had her committed. James told his closest friends that \"he would never agree to his daughter being incarcerated among the English.\"\n\nLucia Joyce returned to stay with Maria Jolas, the wife of \"transition\" editor Eugene Jolas, in Neuilly-sur-Seine. After three weeks, her condition worsened and she was taken away in a straitjacket to the Maison de Santé Velpeau in Vésinet. Considered a danger to both staff and inmates, she was left in isolation. Two months later, she entered the \"maison de santé\" of François Achille Delmas at Ivry-sur-Seine.\n\nIn 1951, Joyce was again transferred to St Andrew's Hospital. Over the years, she received visits from Beckett, Sylvia Beach, Frank Budgen, Maria Jolas, and Harriet Shaw Weaver who acted as her guardian. In 1962, Beckett donated his share of the royalties from his 1929 contributory essay on \"Finnegans Wake\" in \"Our Exagmination Round His Factification for Incamination of Work in Progress\" to help pay for her confinement at St Andrew's.\n\nIn 1982, Joyce suffered a stroke and died on 12 December of that year. She is buried in Kingsthorpe Cemetery.\n\nHer mental state, and documentation related to it, is the subject of a 2003 study by Carol Shloss who believes Lucia Joyce to have been her father's muse for \"Finnegans Wake\". Making heavy reference to the letters between Joyce and her father, the study became the subject of a copyright misuse suit by the James Joyce estate. On 25 March 2007, this litigation was resolved.\n\nIn 2004, Joyce's life was the subject of \"Calico\", a West End play written by Michael Hastings, and of the 2012 graphic novel \"Dotter of Her Father's Eyes\" by Bryan and Mary M. Talbot. Another play exploring her life titled \"L\" was performed to a limited audience in Concord Academy from April 14–16, 2016. It was written and directed by Sophia Ginzburg. In 2016, she was the subject of a biographical novel, \"The Joyce Girl\" by Annabel Abbs, which was published in the UK, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand and translated into German, Spanish and Turkish. She is the protagonist of the \"Round the Bend\" chapter of Alan Moore's 2016 novel \"Jerusalem\"; set at the Northampton clinic where she spent her final years, the chapter is written in the style of her father's \"Finnegans Wake\".\n\n<div style=\"font-size: 95%\">\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50771841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50771841", "title": "Maashaus", "text": "Maashaus\n\nMaashaus () is a spacious room taking the whole front part of a ground floor of a multi-storied Gothic or Renaissance town house.\n\nThis room was used mainly for serving beer, or other kinds of trade and craft. It was not heated. It also worked to link together other parts of the house, since it held a staircase to the first floor above ground (where the owner lived) and to the basement, an archway or similar passage to the courtyard and so on. The ceiling was almost always vaulted and was often supported by an asymmetrically placed central column. It was separated from the street or the arcade by a wall with a doorway and one or more windows.\n\nMaashauses started to appear in the 13th century as a manifestation of the trend to sequester the living quarters of a burgers' house to the first floor. What used to be a main living room of the house, the so-called smoke abode, kept only its public, trade and craft functions, which remained on the ground floor, because they required the proximity of the cellar, the courtyard and especially the street entrance. The trade activities involved mainly the aforementioned serving of beer, which is related to the brewing rights (in the Middle Ages a vast majority of burgers' houses were granted this right), but other trade and crafts were performed there also.\n\nIn the 19th century most maashauses were converted to private shops. Later, they were being renovated in many historic cities as part of restoration activities in the socialist period. To this day, maashauses are found in many buildings in the centers of Česky Krumlov, Slavonice and so on. After 1989 many maashauses were again employed for retail or by pubs and restaurants.\n\n\"Maß“ is an old unit of volume (approximately equivalent to 1.4 l), used for measuring mainly beer, \"haus\" means a \"house“ in German, but in the past it could also stand for the main living room of a house. Therefore, maashaus could be translated as a \"beer house\".\n"}
{"id": "5461236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5461236", "title": "Madonna: Truth or Dare", "text": "Madonna: Truth or Dare\n\nMadonna: Truth or Dare (known as In Bed with Madonna outside of North America) is a 1991 American documentary film chronicling the life of American singer and songwriter Madonna during her 1990 Blond Ambition World Tour. The film was generally well received by critics and was successful at the box office with a worldwide gross of $29,012,935 (an estimated $ million in dollars). It remained the highest-grossing documentary of all time, until \"Bowling for Columbine\" surpassed it in 2002. It was screened out of competition at the 1991 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nIn 2005, Madonna produced another documentary, \"I'm Going to Tell You a Secret\", which followed her 2004 Re-Invention World Tour. It was filmed and narrated in the same style as \"Truth or Dare\", with stage performances filmed in colour and behind-the-scenes in black and white. \"Truth or Dare\" was nominated for a Razzie Award for Worst Actress for Madonna as herself, which she lost to Sean Young for \"A Kiss Before Dying\". It holds an 84% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 25 reviews.\n\nThe film begins on August 6, 1990, the day after the final show of the Blond Ambition Tour in Nice. Madonna cleans up her hotel room while, in a voice-over, she explains that she is not as emotional as the rest of her group over the end of the tour. She has already grieved, she says, but it will hit her later and she hopes she will be in a safe place when it happens.\n\nIn a flashback to April 1990, the tour is about to kick off in Japan. Everything is a mess; there are sound problems and Madonna did not realize that the tour is during the rainy season in Japan. Because it is cold and wet, Madonna and the dancers scrap their costumes for warmer attire. In a voice-over, Madonna confesses that the only thing keeping her from \"slashing my wrists\" is the thought of returning to North America and performing the show as it is meant to be. In America, Madonna meets the families of her dancers. One dancer, Oliver, sees his father for the first time in several years, while Madonna talks with her father, Silvio \"Tony\" Ciccone, on the phone. Though she insists that she can get him tickets, he is reluctant to impose.\n\nThe Blond Ambition tour stops in Los Angeles, where sound problems abound. Despite reassurances, Madonna focuses on the technical problems and yells at her manager, Freddy DeMann, for allowing so many people from the music industry, who appeared bored by her performance, in the front rows. Though then-boyfriend Warren Beatty tries to console her, he is distracted by the cameras and walks away laughing. Madonna parties with several celebrities, including \"Dick Tracy\" co-stars Al Pacino and Mandy Patinkin, and Olivia Newton-John. Kevin Costner offends Madonna by calling her show \"neat\". Madonna pretends to gag after he leaves. Despite the lively atmosphere, Beatty still seems bothered by the cameras' presence.\n\nDuring her stay in Washington, D.C., Madonna attends the premiere of \"Dick Tracy\" with Beatty, with whom she co-starred. In another voice-over, she describes a dream that she had the night before: Mikhail Gorbachev came to her show and she thought about how jealous Beatty would be that she met him first. She declares it \"a good dream\".\n\nOn the final night of the show in Toronto, Madonna is informed that plainclothes officers are prepared to arrest her if she performs the simulated masturbation scene at the end of \"Like a Virgin\". Madonna refuses to change her show, stating, \"Last time I was on tour, Sean [Penn] was in jail. I guess it's my turn.\" Freddy DeMann bets that the threat of arrest will only make Madonna go further and no one takes his bet. According to a news report, Toronto police decide not to arrest the singer, claiming that no threats were made.\n\nThe Blond Ambition tour goes to Madonna's hometown of Detroit. In a voice-over, Madonna expresses the difficulty she has going back home, especially since fame seems to change one's loved ones. At the end of \"Holiday\", Madonna calls her father on stage and sings \"Happy Birthday to You\". Backstage, Tony and his wife, Joan, compliment Madonna (and Christopher) on the show, though Tony expresses his displeasure at some of the more \"burlesque\" aspects. Madonna and Christopher wait for their older brother, Martin, to show up while they discuss his substance abuse problems. By the time Martin arrives, Christopher has left and Madonna has gone to bed.\n\nMadonna reunites with her \"childhood idol\", Moira McFarland-Messana. Moira gives Madonna a painting she made entitled \"Madonna and Child\", and asks Madonna to be the godmother to her unborn child. Before leaving Detroit, Madonna visits her mother's grave as \"Promise to Try\" plays in the background. It is the first time she has visited her mother's grave since she was a little girl. Madonna lies down beside her mother's grave as Christopher watches and Madonna whispers that, \"I'm going to fit in right here. They're going to bury me sideways.\"\n\nAs the tour continues, Madonna's throat problems worsen while Beatty becomes more fed up with the cameras. During a throat examination in Madonna's hotel room, Beatty chastises her for the documentary, telling her the atmosphere is driving everyone insane. Madonna ignores Beatty, and when she declines to have the rest of her examination done off camera, Beatty starts laughing, saying, \"She doesn't want to live off-camera, much less talk... What point is there of existing off-camera?\"\n\nDue to Madonna's throat problems she cancels some of her shows. In New York, Madonna's doctor instructs her not to talk and she finds herself isolated in her apartment with only her assistant, Melissa Crowe, as contact to the outside world. Everything seems to fall apart and she loses contact with the dancers. \"Star\" reports that Madonna dumped Beatty for one of her dancers, Oliver Crumes. The other dancers torment him and Madonna chastises them. Sharon Gault, a make-up artist, is drugged and sodomized while partying. In a prayer circle before the final show in New York, Madonna attempts to pull everyone back together.\n\nThe third leg of the tour kicks off in Europe with everyone in better spirits. Madonna and the dancers visit Chanel in Paris, fool around at Melissa's birthday party and imitate Madonna's 1984 \"Like a Virgin\" music video. As the tour nears Italy, the Pope attempts to have it banned, forcing Madonna to cancel two shows. Sandra Bernhard appears to cheer up Madonna. Sandra asks who would really blow her away if she could meet them and Madonna replies, \"God, I think I've met everybody... oh, except that guy who's in all of Pedro Almodóvar's films—Antonio Banderas.\" When Almodóvar throws a party in Madrid and invites the future \"Evita\" co-stars, Madonna spends a week thinking up ways to seduce Banderas. It turns out that he is married, ending Madonna's two-year crush.\n\nWhile Madonna works in her hotel room, voice-overs from her family, friends, and co-workers describe the star. Though she is happier now than she was on her last tour, Sandra Bernhard does not think that she takes enough time to enjoy her successes. Others describe her in unflattering terms. Luis Camacho says, \"I just feel like she's a little girl lost in the storm sometimes. You know, there's just a whole whirlwind of things going on around her, and sometimes she gets caught up in it.\" As the tour winds down, the group plays a game of Truth or Dare? and Madonna is dared to perform Fellatio on a glass bottle. Madonna is asked, \"Who has been the love of your life for your whole life??\" Madonna replies without hesitation, \"Sean. Sean.\" Madonna invites her dancers, and backup singers, one-by-one, to join her in bed, where she imparts words of wisdom to each.\n\nWhile the show's closing act, \"Keep It Together\", plays, a montage of Madonna saying good-bye to her dancers is shown. The film ends with a clip of Madonna telling director Alek Keshishian to go away and, \"Cut it, Alek! Cut it, Goddamnit!\"\n\n\nThe title of the documentary is in reference to the party game Truth or Dare? Outside North America the documentary title was changed by Miramax Films to \"In Bed with Madonna\", due to the game being relatively unknown in other countries. Madonna has commented in various interviews that she hates the title of \"In Bed with Madonna\". The original working title of the documentary was \"Truth or Dare: On the Road, Behind the Scenes and In Bed with Madonna\".\n\nDuring the summer of 1990, Madonna hired director Alek Keshishian to film backstage and onstage footage of her Blond Ambition World Tour. The entire documentary is filmed in black-and-white, except for onstage sequences which are in full color. There are appearances from celebrities such as Al Pacino, Mandy Patinkin, Olivia Newton-John, Antonio Banderas, Sandra Bernhard, Kevin Costner, and Warren Beatty, whom she was dating at the time.\n\nConcert video footage was shot at Bercy in Paris, France, in July 1990. In the \"Express Yourself\" concert sequence, Madonna says \"All right, America! Do you believe in love?\" This audio is overdubbed from a US date onto footage shot in Paris where she does not wear the ponytail as in the Japan and USA stops.\n\nTo promote the just-released film, Madonna made a guest appearance in a pre-filmed segment on the May 11, 1991 episode of the sketch-comedy show \"Saturday Night Live\".\n\nDuring a \"Wayne's World\" sketch, Wayne (Mike Myers) and Garth (Dana Carvey) encounter a seductive Madonna lying on a bed in a hotel room during a dream fantasy sequence (filmed in black and white). After some back-and-forth banter, Wayne and Madonna play Truth or Dare. Wayne dares Madonna to make out with him. As they kiss, the music for her controversial 1990 video \"Justify My Love\" begins to play. Garth is then seen dancing in a parody of the video before being abducted by two women in fetish-wear outfits.\n\nThe parody, \"\", stars comedian Julie Brown as the title character, with Kathy Griffin and Donal Logue in supporting roles. Brown plays Medusa, a controlling, hyper-sexual blonde bombshell who has allowed a documentary crew to follow her on her \"Blonde Leading the Blonde Tour\". The film, originally produced as a one-hour Showtime television special, goes to great pains to recreate costumes, sets, and situations that occurred in the original documentary.\n\nRock group Medusa released the documentary \"In Bed with Medusa\" in 2013. The film uses the same black and white style along with many further references as it simultaneously parodies the film and documents the early life of the band as they release 2 albums and hit the headlines in the UK.\n\nIn addition, the popular British television comedy programme \"French & Saunders\" did a highly regarded parody of the film with both stars playing Madonna in tandem, a unique concept, which was called \"In Bed with French & Saunders\". Madonna herself was widely reported to be delighted with the long skit, saying that when French & Saunders did a parody of anything, it was proof that it had \"arrived\".\n\nIn 2016, \"Strike a Pose\", a documentary about the life and career of Madonna's dancers over 20 years after the Blond Ambition World Tour, was released. They look back on the impact of that tour and tour film on people's lives, and what was happening in the background on emotional levels.\n\nOn January 21, 1992, three of the Blond Ambition dancers, Oliver Crumes, Kevin Stea, and Gabriel Trupin, filed a lawsuit against Madonna. The suit claimed that the singer had invaded her dancers' privacy during the filming of \"Truth or Dare\", as well as charging her with fraud and deceit, intentional misrepresentation, suppression of fact, and intentional infliction of emotional distress for displaying the men's private lives in the documentary.\n\nIn a commercial for MTV's Rock the Vote campaign later that year, Madonna joked about the lawsuit, saying, \"You're probably thinking that's not a very good reason to vote... So sue me! Everybody else does.\" In October 1994, after more than two years of litigation, the suit was withdrawn and an undisclosed settlement was reached.\n\nMadonna's dancers for the tour, who were almost all gay, and showed their homosexual identity in the tour film (encouraged by Madonna to be and 'express themselves'), received numerous comments, messages and letters from fans to whom this freedom meant a great deal as role models and inspiration to live their own sexual identity. This impact was mentioned in the 2016 documentary Strike a Pose.\n\nDuring media interviews for \"Strike a Pose\", a documentary about Madonna's dancers from the Blond Ambition tour, and featured in this film, Oliver Crumes frequently expressed regret for his homophobic comments in the film. \"I have come to see we are all human beings, who have emotions, hearts and feelings. The only thing that makes us different is our choice of different or same genders to love,\" he said in an interview with The Canadian Press, reading from a statement written with the help of his wife. He would repeat similar comments against violence towards people in the LGBTQ community in other interviews, and emphasize that his outlook has changed since the tour.\n\nThe film was released on home video by LIVE Entertainment in North America on October 9, 1991. Outside of North America it was released as \"In Bed with Madonna\". In the UK an additional VHS \"15\" certificate, edited version was released in November 1991, to allow younger teenagers to watch it. The packaging was slightly changed to a 'blue' format otherwise identical to the original. In 1992, it was re-released on VHS in the US with two additional live videos of \"Like a Prayer\" and \"Hanky Panky\", which played after the end credits. The DVD version was released on August 26, 1997 by LIVE Entertainment in North America but did not get a worldwide DVD release until January 6, 2003 by MGM Entertainment.\n\nIn March 2009, a new HD master of the film premiered on Palladia HD (MTV's new name). It included the new Miramax logo at the beginning of the film and a Warner Bros. Television logo at its closing. The Blu-ray version of the film, along with a new DVD release, which is a reprint to the 1997 release, was released by Lionsgate in North America on April 3, 2012. The typography for the new release was changed from the original design and is similar to the fashion brand and perfume, \"Truth or Dare by Madonna\" which was released at the same time.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18660771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18660771", "title": "Manchester Academy of Fine Arts", "text": "Manchester Academy of Fine Arts\n\nThe Manchester Academy of Fine Arts (MAFA) is a society established in 1859 to organise annual open exhibitions in Manchester City Art Gallery, formerly the Manchester Institution. Since the refurbishment of the art gallery, MAFA has endeavoured to maintain its profile by presenting exhibitions of painting, prints, drawings and sculpture in venues in Manchester and throughout North West England.\n\nThe society has been associated with a number of notable individuals, including Alfred Waterhouse, Ford Madox Brown, LS Lowry, Käthe Schuftan, Norman Adams and Anne Redpath. Past presidents include the artists William Knight Keeling, Charles Oppenheimer and Robert Crozier. Academy members have played a significant role in the Manchester art scene for over a century, including the design of several of its buildings and public works.\n\nThe academy consists of more than 100 elected members who are mainly professional artists practising not only in the North West of England but throughout the United Kingdom and in Europe. The objective of the academy is to promote the work of its members and other artists by organising exhibitions, workshops and talks.\n\nIn 2009–2010, MAFA celebrated its 150th anniversary through a series of exhibitions and a service at Manchester Cathedral in November 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "50819430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50819430", "title": "Max Kalish", "text": "Max Kalish\n\nMax Kalish (March 1, 1891 – 1945) was American sculptor born in Valozhyn, Belarus, and best known for his sculptures of laborers. \n\nHis Orthodox Jewish family emigrated to Cleveland, Ohio in 1893, when he was two years old.\n\nHe studied with Herman Matzen at the Cleveland School of Art; in New York City with Herbert Adams at the National Academy of Design, and in the studios of Alexander Stirling Calder and Isidore Konti; and in Paris with Paul Wayland Bartlett at the Académie Colorossi, and Jean Antoine Injalbert at the École des Beaux-Arts.\n\nHis best known work is his 1932 statue of Abraham Lincoln in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\nWashington, D.C. publisher Willard M. Kiplinger commissioned Kalish to create fifty portrait statuettes of prominent figures in World War II era politics, arts and sciences. Kiplinger donated the statuettes to the Smithsonian Institution in 1944.\n\nKalish was the author of \"Labor Sculpture\", largely a collection of photographs of his statues of workers. Most of the works in the book are in a Social realism style. Critic Emily Genauer wrote in 1938, \"It is the workmen who dominate the American scene, and who have become as surely symbolic of their time as the pioneers in covered wagons, and the robber barons and the great merchant princes were in there respective eras.\" This was what Kalish portrayed in his art. \n\nIn 1939, Kalish lived in New York City and summered in Cleveland.\n\nExamples of Kalish’s work can be found in:\n"}
{"id": "25465773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25465773", "title": "Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum District", "text": "Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum District\n\nThe Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum District or ZMD is a cultural tax district in St. Louis City and St. Louis County, Missouri. The district has five subdistricts, these being the St. Louis Art Museum, St. Louis Zoo, St. Louis Science Center, Missouri History Museum, and Missouri Botanical Garden. Of these, all but the Botanical Gardens are located in or near Forest Park. The subsidies provided by the district ensures that the institutions are public non-profits with free admission for all, with the exception of the Botanical Gardens, which charges a nominal admission fee.\n\nIn the early 1960s, the St. Louis Art Museum and the St. Louis Zoo were both publicly funded by a tax in St. Louis City. Zoo chairman Howard Baer and his successor, Circuit Judge Thomas F. McGuire, worked with their supporters to secure the statute to establish the district. H.B. 23 authorized a 1969 vote in St. Louis City and County, where voters approved the creation of the tax district to fund the Zoo and Art Museum at a rate of 8 cents for every $100 assessed. The Science Center, which had previously received no tax benefit, was added at a rate of 4 cents for every $100 assessed.\n\nEarl Wipfler was selected as the first Executive Director of the district in 1972, and he guided the initial creation of the district's budgeting and accounting procedures. The Missouri Supreme Court approved them. Wipfler served as Executive Director until 1990.\n\nThe Missouri Botanical Garden was added as the district's fourth subdistrict in 1983, and the History Museum in 1988.\n\nOlney F. Otto served as the district's second executive director from 1990 until his death in 2001. Mr. J. Patrick Dougherty has served in the position since.\n\nFrom an initial annual revenue of $3.9 million in 1972, the district grew to $72 million in 2008. In the past few years, around 85% of these funds have come from the county with the city providing only about 15%. Though the tax is the same in both places, the disparity in income and population accounts for the difference in money generated.\n\nThe eight-member governing board is composed of four appointments from St. Louis City, chosen by the mayor, and four from St. Louis County, chosen by the county executive. The terms last four years, and two positions open up on January 1 each year, one for the city and one for the county.\n\nThrough the government subsidy, all five subdistricts are able to operate without charging admission. Some people have questioned whether tourists and residents of areas outside St. Louis City and St. Louis County should continue to be allowed free admission, and that it might be just to charge them, as they contribute nothing to the regional attractions. The exception to this is the Missouri Botanical Garden, which charges admission to non-residents of St. Louis City and County at double the rate of residents. Institutional and political efforts to persuade neighboring Jefferson, St. Charles and other counties to pass tax levies to join the district (and contribute to operations of the regional attractions) have not been successful. The issue of equity has come up intermittently throughout the district's history.\n\nThe MZMD is one of the earliest, largest, and most successful cultural districts of its kind. Other cities have created similar programs and tax districts based on the St. Louis model.\n\n"}
{"id": "56849172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56849172", "title": "Native American Women Playwrights Archive", "text": "Native American Women Playwrights Archive\n\nThe Native American Women Playwrights Archive (NAWPA) is a collection of manuscripts and related items pertaining to Native American women in theater. It was established in 1997 at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio and is located in the university's King Library. The archive is a repository for Spiderwoman Theater and contains promotional and personal documents associated with the theater troupe and its members.\n\nNAWPA began in 1996 with Dr. William Wortman, humanities librarian, and John Allen Johnson, a Cherokee and African American graduate student researching Native American women playwrights at Miami University. Johnson had difficulty finding material to research, so the two built the archive by approaching writers and performers to add to the collection.\n\nThe Native American Women Playwrights Archive in the King Library's Walter Havighurst Special Collections of Miami University contains play manuscripts and other materials including audio and video recordings of performances (VHS tapes, audio cassettes, CDs, and DVDs), photographs, newspaper articles, reviews, flyers, and posters. The archive also holds administrative and financial documents, notes, forms, mailings lists, and correspondence pertaining to the management of the archive and sponsored conferences and events.\n\nOther holdings include documents relating to the work of Spiderwoman Theater, such as photographs of performances, play programs, interviews, and personal accounts from the members of the theater troupe. There are also documents regarding the legal dispute with Marvel Comics over the name \"Spiderwoman.\"\n\nAll the materials in NAWPA are open-access and available for anyone to read in the library. NAWPA continuously adds new playwrights and works to its collection. The archive encourages \"playwrights at any level of development\" to submit their materials.\n\nIn 2008, University of Michigan Press published \"Footpaths and Bridges: Voices from the Native American Women Playwrights Archive\", edited by Shirley A. Huston-Findley and Rebecca Howard. The anthology includes a number of scripts from NAWPA and critical commentary on the recurring themes in the plays. Other related publications include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53482393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53482393", "title": "Native Design", "text": "Native Design\n\nNative Design is a British design and innovation company whose work has been used by companies and institutions such as ABinBev, Audi, Bang & Olufsen, Baxter, BBC, Bentley, Bowers & Wilkins, Canal Plus, Coloplast, Diageo, Ford, Here, HP, Illumina, Microsoft, Nespresso, Novo Nordisk, Pernod Ricard, SFR, Skype, Santander, and Veon.\n\nNative works across the spectrum from automotive to consumer electronics, telecommunications and healthcare. The company is based in London and San Francisco and employs 200 staff.\n\nNative Design was founded in 1997 by former Manager of Design at Bowers & Wilkins, Morten Villiers Warren. Morten designed the \"Emphasis Speakers\" on the cover of Art of Noise's \"Below the Waste\" album.\n\nAfter the success of their early work, the company developed a long-standing relationship and collaboration with Bowers & Wilkins, designing earphones the Zeppelin iPod dock and loudspeaker and the PM1 loudspeaker. Morten is credited with being responsible for today's sleek, contemporary shape.\n\nWorking with the HP Design Team in 2014, Native created the Sprout, a touch screen computer with both vertical and horizontal screens, which \"aims to help designers move between physical and digital platforms seamlessly\". \nIn 2015, HP's CEO Meg Whitman called for a unification across HP's GBUs and thus kick-started concept visioning with Native.\n\nNative was commissioned to create the new user experience and homepage for the BBC in 2015.\n\nColoplast employed Native to create the \"Design DNA\" in 2016, which won a Gold Lion at the Cannes Lions Festival of Creativity. The creation \"has been so successful for Coloplast that it is now embedded in the culture of the company worldwide\" and set a new standard for products that make independent living easier for people with intimate healthcare needs. Subsequently, Forbes named the company as one of the \"Top 25 Most Innovative Companies of 2016\".\n\nNative was recently honoured with the International Design Excellence Gold Award for its work with the Ford Motor Company on the creation of their future car experience known as the Autonomous Vehicle Simulator (AVS). It was created in response to global research and identifies the digital & physical experiences that people want when they no longer need to drive. AVS is a demonstration platform that reimagines transportation choice and business models beyond the SUV. The work generated hundreds of new patents for Ford\n\nThe company was the first British design company to win both Gold and Best in Show at the IDSA International Design Excellence Awards (IDEA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1540915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1540915", "title": "Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information", "text": "Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information\n\nNaval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI) is a category of intellectual capital defined by the United States Navy to be \"classified or unclassified information concerning the design, arrangement, development, manufacture, testing, operation, administration, training, maintenance, and repair of the propulsion plants of naval nuclear-powered ships and prototypes, including the associated shipboard and shore-based nuclear support facilities..\" \n\nNot all NNPI is classified information. While most NNPI is sensitive, the Navy recognizes that the public has an interest in environmental, safety, and health information, and that the basic research carried out by the Navy can be useful to industry. Unclassified information is therefore marked with the acronym \"U-NNPI\", but is still restricted as NOFORN.\n\nNNPI is explicitly protected information and is not released to the general public without authority. Those who release even NNPI-U without authority may be administratively punished, and even criminally in the case of NNPI-C. NNPI is restricted from disclosure under the Arms Export Control Act, 22 USC §§2778 and 2794(7); such information is listed in the US Munitions List, 22 CFR §121.1, Category VI, paragraph (g). \n\nIn some instances, small events that would normally be reported as \"Events\" or LOC (Loss of Control) to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission from other licensees can be classified as NNPI-C. This designation differs for similar \"events\" that occur on a secret network, which are referred to as \"spillage\".\n\n"}
{"id": "440430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440430", "title": "Oakley, Inc.", "text": "Oakley, Inc.\n\nOakley, Inc., based in Lake Forest, California, and a subsidiary of Italian company Luxottica based in Milan, designs, develops and manufactures sports performance equipment and lifestyle pieces including sunglasses, sports visors, ski/snowboard goggles, watches, apparel, backpacks, shoes, optical frames, and other accessories. Most items are designed in house at their head office, but some countries hold exclusive designs relevant to their market. Oakley currently holds more than 600 patents for eyewear, materials, and performance gear.\n\nOakley was started by James Jannard in 1975 out of his garage with an initial investment of $300. The name \"Oakley\" came from Jim's English Setter, \"Oakley Anne.\" Jannard began by selling what he called 'The Oakley Grip' out of the back of his car at motocross events. His motorcycle grips were unlike other grips available at the time. The material is still used to make the earsocks on Oakley glasses, and many of the nose pieces and now the bands of their watches. Oakley went on to produce number plates, gloves, grips, elbow guards, chin guards, and goggles for the BMX and motocross communities. After selling Oakely Inc. to Italian Eyeware company Luxottica Group in 2007, founder James Jannard went on to found Red Digital Cinema.\n\nIn 1980, Jannard released a pair of goggles called the O-Frame. With the 'Oakley' logo present on the strap, the brand garnered increasing recognition and prominence throughout the sports industry. In 1983, Oakley began selling ski goggles.\n\nThe first Oakley sunglasses; Factory Pilot Eyeshades, were sport-oriented, resembling goggles and were released in 1984. These were followed in 1985 by the Oakley Frogskin, a casual sunglass style that was made in Japan.\n\nThe company went public in 1995, raising $230 million.\n\nIn early 1996, Oakley had a pricing dispute with Italian company Luxottica, the world's largest eyewear manufacturers and retailers. Luxottica stopped carrying Oakley's products in their stores, including Sunglass Hut, and Oakley's stock market value declined 33%.\n\nIn 2001, Oakley bought Iacon, Inc., operator of mall-based sunglasses stores Sunglass Designs, Sporting Eyes, and Occhiali da Sole.\n\nOakley signed a four-year agreement to manufacture eyewear designed by themselves and Fox Racing in September 2004.\n\nStarting in 2004, Jannard bought large quantities of Oakley stock: $2 million in 2004, $16 million in 2005, and $4.6 million in early 2006, bringing his personal stake in the company to 63%.\n\nIn 2006, Oakley acquired the Oliver Peoples group, a manufacturer of high-end fashion branded eyewear (under the Oliver Peoples, Mosley Tribes, and Paul Smith brands) for $55.7m, and Optical Shop of Aspen, a luxury eyewear retailer with fourteen stores.\n\nOn June 21, 2007, Luxottica announced a plan to purchase Oakley in a cash deal worth $2.1 billion, paying a 16% premium over the extant share price. The deal was completed on November 15, 2007, making Oakley part of a portfolio that includes brands such as Ray-Ban, Persol, and Vogue.\n\nDuring the preparations for the ultimately successful rescue of thirty-three miners trapped for ten weeks in a Chilean mine in October 2010, a journalist covering the story contacted Oakley about donating sunglasses to the rescue effort, aware that the miners would need eye protection after having spent weeks in darkness. Oakley donated 35 pairs of its Radar sports glasses, fitted with specially selected tints.\n\nOakley sponsored members of the US Olympic Team in 2012. \n\nIn August 2013, Oakley sold its REVO brand to Sequential Brands for $20m.\n\nMost of Oakley's technological designs, fashion pieces, gear, etc. were developed with extensive athlete input and testing in the field – including extreme conditions. Oakley also maintains US Standard Issue, which provides U.S. military and law enforcement eye protection. Oakley M Frame sunglasses are included as part of the U.S. Army's Authorized Protective Eyewear List (APEL), and have been assigned a NSN number for ordering through military supply channels. The company has also built at least one 'golf hovercraft', intended as an all terrain replacement for conventional golf carts, in partnership with the professional golfer, Bubba Watson.\n\n"}
{"id": "19247492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19247492", "title": "Olivier Zahm", "text": "Olivier Zahm\n\nOlivier Zahm (born 25 September 1963) is a French magazine editor, art critic, art director, curator, writer, and photographer He is the co-founder, owner, and current editor-in-chief of the bi-annual art and fashion magazine \"Purple.\" In addition to his innovative print publishing, he is a recognized pioneering cultural influence at the dawn of the electronic era during \"the Digital Revolution\". His early blogs garnered notoriety, and featured highly stylized photographs taken by him, that took his audience on daily tours of his fantasyland populated by the artists, intellectuals, designers, filmmakers, socialites, models and celebrities who regularly appeared in his magazine. His aesthetic has been described as anti-fashion, counterculture, and unfettered by the constraints of the mainstream publishing world. His online activity served as an early electronic precursor to popular social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram. His magazine remains one of the only independent and privately owned publications of its kind. Created in the beginning of the \"1990s\" - it still remains a major reference for other alternative magazines today.\n\nOlivier Zahm was born and raised in Paris, France. He was the eldest of three children born to two university professors. His parents, who were both students at the time of his birth, raised Zahm and his other siblings in student quarters that were designed by Charlotte Perriand and Jean Prouvé, located at in Antony.  Much of his early childhood was spent in academic settings, particularly- during the volatile period of civil unrest in France that broke out in May 1968\".\"  The protests reached such a point that political leaders feared civil war or revolution. The unrest began with a series of student occupation protests against capitalism, consumerism, American imperialism, and traditional institutions, values and order. Many of the new and radical ideas surrounding Zahm, immersing his youth in tumultuous generational discord, stayed with him, shaping his views on art, philosophical ideas and lifestyle choices.  He leveraged his profound formative experience using it as a tool to build aspects and themes that remain prevalent in his personal and professional life in adulthood.  He told The New York Times in 2010 that he, “remembers summers spent vacationing in the South of France with his parents in a community of like minded free spirits” - who he labeled hippies. It was the \"1970s\", the decade of sex revolution and Zahm's parents were committed to free love\",\" nudism and polyamourous relationships. \"My parents had a lot of lovers, they had a lot of affairs. At the time, my parents were really part of this alternative movement in Paris but quite bourgeois too. It wasn't San Francisco or New York. It was the French way.\" Zahm’s love of magazines began when he was a teenager in the Paris suburbs. “We used to steal porn magazines in the bookstores and shops and look at them during school,” he says. “It was fun and secret. This is where my obsession for magazines comes from. Magazines used to reveal and give us access to sex, fashion, music and art. TV never did that, and books are mostly academic. Magazines were a symbol of freedom.”  He studied philosophy, history, semiotics and literature at the Sorbonne. His father, Claude, taught philosophy, and Zahm was on track to do the same, before realizing, at 25, that he preferred life outside “la tour d’ ivoire.” Zahm's youngest sister committed suicide in 1994 at the age of 20. \n\nBefore entering the world of fashion, Zahm worked as an art critic with widespread recognition for his work as a curator as well as his participation in over 150 exhibitions featuring international contemporary art. In responding to the superficial glamour of the 1980s, Zahm co-founded Purple Prose magazine. In the introduction of Purple Anthology, Zahm shares why he chose to create Purple Prose:\"\"We launched Purple Prose in the early 1990s without any means, and without any experience, because we wanted to make a magazine that was radically different. We wanted to support the artists around us that no one else supported, much less talked about. It would be a form of opposition of our own\".\" \n\nDuring the beginning of the 80’s Zahm started to observe and take an interest in the art world. He liked the notion of “being everywhere and on the move”, following art fairs, meeting artists, educating himself in the universe of contemporary art while immersing himself into its social landscape.  Zahm’s gift of being a charismatic intellectual and having an eye for contemporary art made itself apparent early on. He found himself penning for the three leading art titles at the time Art Forum, Art Flash, Texte Zur Kunst and Art Presse and introduced a then unknown Jeff Koons, Martin Kippenberger, and Larry Clark to the European art world.   He started traveling to the United States and Japan, realizing he could set up his own operation and work agenda, 24/7. He told I-D magazine in 2010: \n\n\"Freedom for me came from the art world because it was a place where I could meet the artists. I wanted to be a social critic. I was more interested in the category of intellectual, involving art and politics and writing sometimes. But I didn't want to be a writer necessarily, I just wanted to be part of an intellectual world.\"  In 1989, while working at Artforum,  Elien Fleiss, then a young gallery curator received a phone call from Zahm. She was looking for an art critic to write a manifesto against a journalist from a daily newspaper who she felt was writing insanities about contemporary art in general. Zahm agreed to do it, and that was the beginning of the encounter, which then became a love story. Their romance was short-lived, but their professional relationship was fruitful.  In 1994, they curated “The Winter of Love,” a hit show for the Museum of Modern Art in Paris that they later took to P.S. 1 in New York.\n\nIn May of  2017, Zahm published a book in collaboration with Donation Grau titled,' Une avant-garde sans avant-garde'.The book is a collection of Zahm’s most significant texts written during the last 30 years. It is above all a radical reading of art from the 1990s to the present. The anthology tries to decipher this chaotic, contradictory, oppressive, and ultra-creative period. The introductions that precede each chapter contextualize the selected texts, and develop the idea that the 1990s invented an avant-garde without an avant-garde, the issues of which are increasing and intensifying. \n\nZahm gravitated towards the idea of working with magazines from the conception of his career in art. In 1992 Zahm and his partner Elien Fleiss printed the first issue of Purple Prose, a Parisian literary art zine. Their goal was to create a new kind of space for artists to present their work and express their ideas; and to design a network through which people working in different disciplines, could easily access new information and each other and contributing to the early 90s alternative indie culture.  Zahm liked the idea of a color sharing the title with an art magazine. Dike Blair an American artist suggested the title Purple Prose in reference to the literary term in which a prose text is so extravagent, ornate, or flowery that it breaks the flow and draws excessive attention to itself.  Soon after the birth of Purple Prose, Zahm created spin-off publications like Purple Sexe, Purple Fiction and Purple Fashion. Zahm aimed at fusing together his two worlds, fashion and art, in creating Purple Fashion.  A typical issue featured interviews, articles and presentations covering a wide range of topics and disciplines which include; film and video, politics, fashion, architecture, sexuality, science, photography and music. Each issue was built around a loose theme which serves to create a link between subjects-past examples have been: Indian Summer, Violet Violence, Post-Sex. With its international correspondents and cutting-edge design, Purple Prose had the distinctive feel of a truly global art zine. The texts were written in roughly equal parts French and English, without translations.\n\nFor many years the magazine was associated with a realist esthetic, that of the new photography of the early 1990s- of photographers like Juergen Teller, Terry Richardson, Wolfgang Tillmans, and Mario Sorrenti.  From a visual standpoint, the magazine represented a break from 80s imagery (like Richard Avedon’s photography for Versace, for example.) From an artistic standpoint, the artists from the early 1990s were raising up against art as a capitalist fetish; they were aligning themselves with the artistic social and political practices of the 1970s-- those of performance, video art, Fluxus, and the conceptual and minimalist avant-garde. The magazine was an integral part of this burgeoning context, which included the deconstruction of fashion by Martin Margiela and Comme des Garçsons; the return of subtle political art, with that of Felix Gonzalez- Torres, Maurizio Cattelan, and Philippe Parreno, among others; photography of Juergen Teller; and Harmony Korine and Larry Clark’s independent filmmaking. \n\nFor its 25th anniversary issue, Purple celebrated the artists and models who incarnated the spirit of the magazine through their style, attitude, and personality: Cindy Sherman, Wolfgang Tillmans, Chloe Savigny, Richard Prince, Paul McCarthy, Susan Cianciolo , Maurizio Cattelan, and more. It was the first time the magazine printed multiple covers for one issue. 25 different covers showed  25 Purple icons. It was also the first time purple distributed hard-cover magazines instead of the traditional soft-cover print. He described in the editions Edito: “It’s been years now that younger generations don’t use magazines to express themselves — at least not the way we did back in 1992. Social media now generally satisfy the need for images, contacts, and creativity. Publishing a magazine has become so expensive… An actual print object like Purple is a luxury item, which is why new alternative magazines don’t last more than a few years, are often bought, or simply disappear. Doing a luxury magazine today is one of the paradoxes of the Instagram era, when such things cost nothing… A magazine is not an ego trip… It’s a collective work by a group of creative people who believe in the artistic value of the print media and share a similar vision. (Thanks to all of them!) Every image, every single text, the choice of paper, the layout, even the choice of typefaces matters. Everything matters… Purple is made to last. Purple is made to capture a moment every season… In this period of global Internet obsession and digital amnesia, I think that means something\"In 2017 Purple moved their US based headquarters and offices from New York City to Los Angeles. \n\nIn the year 2000, Serge July, the founder and editor-in-chief of French national newspaper Libération hired Olivier Zahm to launch Liberation Style, an occasional Saturday supplement to the main paper. 15 issues were published every season until 2005. \n\nIn 2009 Chanel launched its very first magazine: 31 Rue Cambon. Chanel’s goal was to combine sales and information. Karl Lagerfeld delegated the artistic direction of the magazine which was not available to the public, but instead only the private cliental of Chanel to Zahm \n\nIn 2018 Zahm designed a fanzine for Gucci’s FW2019 collection presented at Le Palace in Paris. The magazine was the 14th issue of Le Palace Magazine. \n\nZahm credited Lagerfeld for reigniting his sentiment for taking photos in 2005.  Zahm told WWD in an interview dedicated to Purple’s 25th Anniversary: “He (Lagerfeld) was buying these little digital cameras at the time, Sony Cyber-shots, a little pocket-size, flat, digital camera. He had a pile of them on his table and said: “Take this, if you’ll use it.” We had this long discussion about photography and I said, “Karl how can you want to be a photographer when you were friends with Helmut Newton because, me, I have Juergen Teller in my generation and I haven’t been able to do photography since I’ve known him, because he’s the best.” And he said: “Olivier, shut up. You don’t understand, photography is not about getting the right picture, it’s about documenting your everyday life. Remember Warhol, do you think he was a good photographer? He always had a camera on him. Do like Warhol, do like me: Don’t let a day go by without taking a picture.”In 2009, he began documenting his late-night partying escapades in high-contrast black-and-white photographs which appeared on Purple Diary, a notorious photo blog that would become the seed for a full Purple website. He has had shows of his photographic work at Half Gallery in New York, Colette in Paris , Leadapron in Los Angeles and The Last Gallery in Tokyo. \n\nIn addition to documenting his personal life on social media platform he continues to shoot many editorials and campaigns for various brands including Yves Saint Laurent, Chanel, Giorgio Armani, Uniqlo,  Agent Provocateur, and magazines including Lui, Vogue Russia, and Kadewe among others. \n\nIn 2014, Zahm partnered with Rizzoli published O.Z. Diary, a cosmopolitan 500-page photo diary exposing the lifestyles of the creative elite through a series of intimate, autobiographical photographs. Glenn O'Brien contributed various texts for the book.\n\nZahm has a son, Balthus, with designer Natacha Ramsay-Levi, and a daughter, Asia, with writer Anna Dubosc. He currently is in a relationship with creative director and former model Amanda Wall. He splits his time between Los Angeles and Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "24866399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24866399", "title": "Pavel Svedomsky", "text": "Pavel Svedomsky\n\nPavel Aleksandrovich Svedomsky (; 7 June 1849, Saint-Petersburg—27 August 1904, Rome) was a Russian painter and the brother of another artist, Alexander Svedomsky.\n\nPavel Svedomsky studied first in the Düsseldorf Academy of Arts, then in Munich under Eduard von Gebhardt and Mihály Munkácsy.\n\nSvedomsky belonged to hereditary Russian nobility. Together with his brother he spent the childhood in the family estate Mikhaylovski Zavod, located in the Perm Guberniya. In 1870 Pavel entered the Düsseldorf Academy of Arts, but studied there only few months. The Svedomskys traveled together across Europe until settling in Rome in 1875. He died there in 1904 and is buried with his brother Alexander in the Protestant Cemetery.\n\nPavel Svedomsky painted in various genres, most notably in historic. The painting \"Medusa\" (1882) was bought by Pavel Tretyakov to be displayed in Tretyakov Gallery.\n\nWorking in the St Volodymyr's Cathedral in Kiev, Svedosmky painted the northern and southern naves of the cathedral, creating six scenes from the life of Jesus: \"The Resurrection of Lazarus\", \"The Entry of Christ into Jerusalem\", \"The Last Supper\", \"The Agony in the Garden\", \"The Trial of Pilate\", \"The Crucifixion\" and \"The Ascension\". During his later years Svedomsky turned to Russian subjects, painting \"The Poor Bride\", \"The Fool in Christ\", \"The Fire of Moscow, 1812\" (1879) and \"The Execution of Yermak\".\n\nThe works of Svedomsky are scattered across various central and regional museums. The Tretyakov Gallery houses five of his paintings, while the Perm State Art Gallery holds a sketch for the church painting \"Procession of the Cross\", as well as \"Two Roman Women With Tambourine and Flute\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2450486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2450486", "title": "Print Room, Windsor", "text": "Print Room, Windsor\n\nThe Print Room at Windsor Castle is a print room which is an office in the Royal Collection Department of the Royal Household of the Sovereign of the United Kingdom. It is responsible for the care and maintenance of the royal collections of drawings and old master prints (engravings etc.), which is one of the finest in the world. The term refers to both an institution and a room, and is under the direction of the Head of Prints and Drawings, currently Martin Clayton MVO.\n"}
{"id": "325064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325064", "title": "Scenic painting (theatre)", "text": "Scenic painting (theatre)\n\nTheatrical scenic painting includes wide-ranging disciplines, encompassing virtually the entire scope of painting and craft techniques. An experienced scenic painter (or scenic artist) will have skills in landscape painting, figurative painting, trompe l'oeil, and faux finishing, and be versatile in different media such as acrylic, oil, and tempera paint. The painter might also be accomplished in three-dimensional skills such as sculpting, plasterering and gilding.\n\nThe scenic painter takes direction from the theatre designer. In some cases designers paint their own designs.\n\nThe techniques and specialized knowledge of the scenic painter replicate an image to a larger scale from a designer's maquette, perhaps with accompanying photographs, printouts and original research, and sometimes with paint and style samples.\n\nScenic paint has traditionally been mixed by the painter using pigment powder colour, a binder and a medium. The binder adheres the powder to itself and to the surface on which it is applied. The medium is a thinner which allows the paint to be worked more easily, disappearing as the paint dries. Today it is common to use brands of ready-made scenic paint, or pigment suspended in a medium to which a binder will be added. \n\n"}
{"id": "21139041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21139041", "title": "Smock Alley Theatre", "text": "Smock Alley Theatre\n\nSince the 17th century there have been numerous theatres in Dublin with the name of Smock Alley.\n\nThe current Smock Alley Theatre is a 21st-century theatre in Dublin, converted from a 19th-century church building, incorporating structural material from an 18th-century theatre building, and built on the site of the 17th century Theatre Royal, Dublin. The present theatre was opened in 2012, after a €3.5 million investment.\n\nThe Smock Alley Theatre site comprises Smock Alley Theatre (178 seats), The Boys School (60 - 100 capacity), Black Box (80 capacity), and The Banquet Hall (300 capacity).\n\nThe first Theatre Royal was opened on the site by John Ogilby in 1662. Ogilby, who was the first Irish Master of the Revels, had previously run the New Theatre in Werburgh Street, which had closed during the Puritan interregnum. This building was entirely demolished, with a new theatre replacing it in 1735. This second building was active as a theatre until 1759, with a brief later revival until its final closure in 1787.\n\nThe Theatre Royal consisted of a classical proscenium stage, pit, boxes, a middle and upper gallery, lattices (which were a type of box peculiar to Dublin) and a music/orchestra loft above the stage, also the acoustics were said to be excellent. The pit had backless benches and a raked floor that rose toward the back of the audience to help sightlines. Mostly single men sat here, and it was the noisiest, rowdiest area in the theatre. Boxes sat upper-class aristocrats. Boxes were luxuriously decorated with velvet drapes should the occupants require some privacy during the evening...for whatever reason. The doors were wider in the boxes to allow access for the voluminous dresses of the ladies. Galleries held the lower class, including servants of the upper classes in attendance. These were the worst seats as they were on the same level as the large chandeliers that lit the theatre. Candles were made of tallow (animal fat) and they were very pungent and smokey. The building was built on reclaimed ground from the River Liffey and due to this, in 1670 and later in 1701 the upper galleries collapsed killing several people inside and injuring many more including the son of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, Charles Earl of Middlesex. He was pulled from the wreckage of his box with two broken legs\n\nThere was another partial collapse in March 1734 after which it was abandoned for a short while. The major decision was then taken to demolish and rebuild the theatre in 1735 with increased audience capacity.\n\nIn the time between the demolition of the original theatre and the construction of its replacement, a new theatre had opened in Aungier Street and it managed to wrestle the title Theatre Royal from Smock Alley for a time. In 1745 Thomas Sheridan, godson of Jonathan Swift, took on the role of manager of Smock Alley and Aungier Street. He made many improvements and reclaimed the title Theatre Royal for Smock Alley. By 1750 the Aungier Street theatre had closed down. Sheridan was not only director of the theatre, he was also a playwright and strove to improve audiences at the theatre by cleaning up the neighbourhood in which it stood. At the time there were many unsavoury taverns and ale houses as well as many establishments of ill repute that Sheridan successfully petitioned to have closed down in favour of more wholesome and decent businesses. This change in the area encouraged more noble people to again return to the theatre and it once again thrived.\n\nBenjamin Victor was an Englishman who originally visited Ireland in an effort to extend his textile business, but that did not prove profitable, and he eventually gave it up. On 11 October 1746 Victor settled with his family in Dublin as treasurer and deputy-manager to Sheridan at the Smock Alley Theatre. The theatre was for some years fairly successful; but about 1753 Sheridan was at variance with a portion of the theatre-going public, and for two years Victor and John Sowdon, a principal actor in the company, took over its management. On 15 July 1755 Sheridan returned to Dublin, and Victor resumed his old position. Eventually the theatre was closed on 20 April 1759, and Victor returned to England. The theatre later reopened, being active until 1787, but Victor did not return - having become involved with the Drury Lane Theatre in his native London.\n\nThe first Theatre Royal housed the plays of George Farquhar (The Recruiting Officer/The Beaux Stratagem), Oliver Goldsmith (She Stoops to Conquer) and Richard Brinsley Sheridan, son of Thomas Sheridan (The Rivals/School for Scandal). It was here that the stars of world theatre appeared to much acclaim such as Peg Woffington, Thomas Sheridan, Spranger Barry and Charles Macklin. It was on the stage of Smock Alley Theatre that David Garrick, the greatest actor of the 18th century, first played Hamlet. It was the first time Hamlet had ever been staged in Ireland and some 3,000 customer clambered to get one of only 300 tickets.\n\nIt was also the site of some infamous 18th century Dublin riots, the most serious being the Kelly riots of 1747. Thomas Sheridan was manager at the time and had recently banned the presence of audience members on stage and the taking of money for the privilege of going backstage. These rules were for men only. Indeed, it was under Charles II that the law was changed to even allow women to act on stage. These rules were severely tested by a very drunk Trinity College student named Richard Kelly. Kelly did not appreciate the new rules restricting access backstage and brazenly went back stage.\n\nIn 1758 another rival theatre opened, and eventually the Theatre Royal at Smock Alley closed in 1787. After this, the building was used as a whiskey store, falling into heavy disrepair before purchase by Fr Michael Blake in 1811.\n\nThe structure of the derelict building was partially demolished, and the new church incorporated some of this original theatre structure into its own during the building work, which was carried out between 1811 and 1815. The resultant new building was named St Michael and John's Church, after the medieval churches of St Michael of the Hill (now Dublinia) and St John of Booth Street (Fishamble Street). It had a famous stained glass window that is now in Swords. The theatre still boasts ornate stained glass windows and ceiling plasterwork which dates from the turn of the 20th century.\n\nWhen the bell tolled in 1811, 18 years before Catholic Emancipation; it was the first Catholic bell to ring in Dublin in nearly 300 years. This prompted the aldermen of the city to bring charges against Fr Blake, though these charges were\ndropped when young lawyer Daniel O'Connell came to his defence.\n\nIn 1989 due to falling numbers of parishioners the church of St Michael and John was deconsecrated. It was then redeveloped (part of the Temple Bar rejuvenation scheme) into the 'Viking Adventure' which was closed down in 2002.\n\nIn 2009, a full archaeological excavation took place under Margaret Gowan Archaeology. The dig revealed part of the foundations from the first theatre on the site built in 1662, and the full basement and foundation plan of the 1735 theatre.\n\nA total of 229 artefacts were recovered from the excavations, these included medieval and post-medieval pottery, glass finds (mostly wine bottles), clay tobacco pipe fragments, an actor's wig curler, a medieval roof tile, fragments\nof mosaic floor and lots of oyster shells, remnants of the building's theatrical past.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25892646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25892646", "title": "Stanton Williams", "text": "Stanton Williams\n\nStanton Williams is a British architectural design practice based in Islington, London.\n\nThe studio was founded by Alan Stanton and Paul Williams in 1985 and now has a team of over 85 people with four directors, two associate directors and fifteen associates. Stanton Williams has completed over 350 architectural, urban design, masterplanning, exhibition and interior design projects, winning more than 100 awards. In 2012 their Sainsbury Laboratory in Cambridge was awarded the Stirling Prize. \n\nPaul Williams is the first design-trained architect to be registered with ARB and received an Honorary Doctorate from the University of the Arts London in 2012. Alan Stanton was elected a Royal Academician in 2009 and both Alan and Paul are both Royal Designers of Industry, They each received an OBE for their services to architecture in 2014.\n\nThe practice has developed its portfolio from an initial focus on museums and galleries towards a wide variety of projects, all of which demonstrate its overarching objective of putting the user’s experience of space, light and materials at the forefront of the agenda, as well as creating places that sensitively respond to their cultural, social and physical context. \n\nCurrent projects include: UCL East Marshgate, a new university campus in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park; the Royal Opera House's ‘Open Up' project; a research building for Great Ormond Street Hospital; and the British Museum's Albukhary Foundation Gallery of the Islamic World.\n\nRecently completed projects include: The Simon Sainsbury Centre at Cambridge Judge Business School; and Musée d'arts de Nantes in France, one of the largest Fine Art museums outside Paris.\n\nOther notable projects include: The Stirling Prize-winning Sainsbury Laboratory in Cambridge; Tintagel House in Vauxhall; Victoria Hall King's Cross; Compton Verney Art Gallery; and Eton Manor, designed for the London 2012 Olympics.\n\n\"A Walk Around King’s Cross: Volume 1\"\nEd. Ruth Slavid\nThe Architect’s Journal / EMAP publishing, 2014 \n\n\"The Sainsbury Laboratory: Science, Architecture, Art\"\nStephen Day, John Parker, Steve Rose\nBlack Dog Publishing, Year 2011 \n\n\"Stanton Williams: Volume\"\nStephen Bayley, Irenee Scalbert, David Taylor\nBlack Dog Publishing, 2009 \n\n\"Stanton Williams\" \n\"De aedibus international Volume 1\"\nEd. Heinz Wirzn\nQuart Verlag, 2009 \n\nA number of Stanton Williams’ architects and designers are teachers, guest lecturers and external examiners at schools of architecture and creative arts universities. \n\nThe Directors have acted as external examiners at Westminster, Plymouth, Dundee, Birmingham Schools of Architecture, the Architectural Association, Kingston University, University of East London, Oxford Brookes University, Glasgow School of Art and University of Greenwich. They have held teaching and visiting critic roles at London Metropolitan University, Westminster University, Central Saint Martins MA Creative Practice for Narrative Environments and the Ecole Polytechnique de Lausanne in Switzerland.\n\nAlan Stanton is a trustee of Open-City. Paul Williams is an advisor to the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea and St Paul’s Cathedral. He is a trustee of Space Studios and also sits on the RIBA Public Education Committee. The practice supports the Open-City Education Fund, and takes part in Open-City’s architectural education programmes ‘Architecture in Schools’ and ‘Accelerate into University’.\nStanton Williams offers support and mentoring to architectural students at Central Saint Martins (via the RIBA London Student Mentoring scheme), University of Greenwich, University of East London and the Bartlett School of Architecture.\n"}
{"id": "34221037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34221037", "title": "Swanke Hayden Connell Architects", "text": "Swanke Hayden Connell Architects\n\nSwanke Hayden Connell Architects was an international architecture, interiors and historic preservation firm with U.S. headquarters in New York City.\n\nThe firm was founded in New York in 1906 by Alexander Stewart Walker (1876-1952) and Leon N. Gillette (1878-1945). Originally known as Walker & Gillette, the firm designed country estates and urban townhouses for some of New York's more affluent families. Through the years, the practice expanded to include corporate interiors for prominent banking and brokerage concerns as well as major architectural commissions such as the Fuller Building at 57th Street and Madison Avenue and the First National Bank Building at 57th Street.\n\nFollowing Gillette's death in 1945, A. Stewart Walker merged his practice with the Office of Alfred Easton Poor. The firm practiced under the name of Walker & Poor from 1946 to 1952 with commissions that included Sotheby Parke Bernet Galleries, Chemical Bank, Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc., Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corporation and NATO air bases in France.\n\nAfter Walker's death in 1952, the firm continued the practice as the Office of Alfred Easton Poor until 1971. In 1958, the firm opened a second office in Washington, D.C. During this period, the firm expanded and diversified further into governmental facilities, office buildings, communications centers, and industrial structures throughout the United States, Europe, and South America.\n\nIn 1972, the firm became known as Poor and Swanke & Partners, in 1975, Poor, Swanke, Hayden & Connell, in 1979, Swanke Hayden Connell & Partners, and in 1981, Swanke Hayden Connell Architects. During this time, the firm expanded its disciplines and became a global practice, opening offices in Miami and London in 1987, Istanbul in 1997, Sheffield 2002, Moscow in 2006, and Shanghai in 2010.\n\nIn 2000, the firm acquired Taylor Clark Architects, a firm specializing in the healthcare field. In 2002, the Firm acquired George Trew Dunn Architects, another healthcare architecture firm with offices in London and Sheffield, England.\n\nOn January 6, 2015 the firm filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, after failing to receive over $2 million in fees from a client.\n\n"}
{"id": "50005416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50005416", "title": "Terry Fenton", "text": "Terry Fenton\n\nTerry Fenton (born July 1, 1940) is a Canadian artist, author, critic, and curator known for his landscape paintings, his support of modernist art, and his writing on the work of artists such as Jack Bush, Anthony Caro, Peter Hide, Dorothy Knowles, Ken Macklin, Kenneth Noland, Jules Olitski, and William Perehudoff. Fenton is the former director of the Edmonton Art Gallery (1972 - 1987), the A.C. Leighton Foundation, Calgary (1987 - 1993) and the Mendel Art Gallery, Saskatoon (1993 - 1997). Since 2013, Fenton has resided in Victoria, British Columbia.\n\nTerry Fenton was born in Regina, Saskatchewan in 1940, and studied at Regina College's School of Fine Art (now University of Regina) from 1958-1960, with Ronald Bloore, Roy Kiyooka, and Arthur McKay. Moving to the Saskatoon campus to study English literature, Fenton earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1962. Along with studies at the University of Regina (1965-1966), Fenton attended Emma Lake Artist's Workshops in Saskatchewan with John Cage and Lawrence Alloway in 1965, Frank Stella in 1967, and Michael Steiner in 1969.\n\nThe imagery in Terry Fenton's paintings is often focused on the large skies and wide open prairies of his home province. In Fenton's own words, \"Because of their apparent lack of scenery, the open prairies haven't been much painted by anyone. Even painters who've flourished in Saskatchewan have preferred the river valleys in the plains or the aspen parkland and forest to the north and east. While I admire and have absorbed much from them, I'm drawn south and west to the grasslands, partly because I was born and raised in Regina, but especially because the colour and light there is so luminous.\" Fenton's paintings can be found in a number of collections, including the University of Lethbridge, Alberta; the MacKenzie Art Gallery, Regina; the Art Gallery of Greater Victoria, British Columbia; and the Canada Council Art Bank, Ottawa.\n\nTerry Fenton's writing on art has touched on subjects both historical and contemporary, from essays on Fayum mummy portraits and Giovanni Bellini's \"St. Francis in Ecstasy,\" to articles on Morris Louis and Adolph Gottlieb.\nFenton has written a number of books, including monographs on Dorothy Knowles, Reta Cowley, Anthony Caro and Kenneth Noland, as well as his 2009 treatise on pictorial art, \"About Pictures.\"\n"}
{"id": "47928856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47928856", "title": "The Excursion to Tilsit", "text": "The Excursion to Tilsit\n\nThe Excursion to Tilsit is a 1917 collection of short stories or novellas by the German writer Hermann Sudermann. Its German title is Litauische Geschichten, which means \"Lithuanian stories\". The book consists of four stories set in rural Lithuania in the mid 19th century. It was published in English in 1930, translated by Lewis Galantière.\n\nSeveral stories from the book have been adapted for film. Most famously, F. W. Murnau's 1927 film \"\" is loosely based on the titular story.\n\nThe Excursion to Tilsit (Die Reise nach Tilsit)\nA married man is in love with his mistress and plans to drown his wife on the way back from a trip to Tilsit. During the trip he reconciles with his wife, changes his mind and tells her about his now abandoned plan. In a fatal accident the man drowns and the wife is saved through the means the man had prepared for his own escape.\nMiks Bumbullis\nA murderer needs to visit the grave of his daughter to please the goddess of death, despite knowing that the police will be there waiting for him.\nJons and Erdma (Jons und Erdme)\nA couple become wealthy by the means of tricks and foul play. Eventually they are in turn tricked by their daughters and have to start again from zero.\nThe Hired Girl (Die Magd)\n\nMargaret Wallace of \"The Bookman\" wrote:\nLike Selma Lagerlöf, and many other novelists whose material is national and even provincial, Sudermann by his very unconcern with cosmopolitan values gives a deeper truth and meaning to the lives of his characters. Of these four stories of Lithuanian peasants, only one, \"Miks Bumbullis\", depends for its effect upon purely national traits and circumstances. They are, for the most part, founded solidly upon the fundamental and inescapable human facts of birth and love and death. They are moving and tragic and, above all, intensely and vividly alive.\n\n\"The Outlook\" reviewed the book:\n\"Excursion to Tilsit\" by Hermann Sudermann is a collection of powerful short stories dealing with the life of Lithuanian peasants. The author has observed them sympathetically and at first hand. Nominal Catholics, they still live in fear of pagan gods, giving even their lives to propitiate them. ... Among the stories, that of Jons and Erdma who, having built a home by tricks and cunning are tricked out of it at last by their daughters, compares favorably with Turgeniev's \"Lear of the Steppes\" as a story of faith and treachery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24214377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24214377", "title": "Throwing Curves: Eva Zeisel", "text": "Throwing Curves: Eva Zeisel\n\nThrowing Curves : Eva Zeisel is a 2002 documentary film directed by Jyll Johnstone. The film follows and interviews then-97-year-old Hungarian industrial designer and ceramic artist Eva Zeisel. It examines how her upbringing, fame, and personality have influenced her work and reputation to the present day. Zeisel narrates her own history, including her escape from both the Soviet Union and Nazi-annexed Austria, as family members, friends, and relevant experts offer insights into her character. Alternating between archival footage and video interviews, the film explores how Zeisel's personal life has shaped the development of her work, which is on display in the Museum of Modern Art and other museums around the world. Zeisel's age is a key theme of the film, and several interviewees comment on her unusual industriousness and innovation for an elderly woman.\n\nThe film is the first in a series of three films by Directors Guild of America Award-nominated director Jyll Johnstone that \"explores the lives of three 85-plus women still actively engaged in creative lives.\" \"Throwing Curves\" screened at the 2002 Mill Valley Film Festival and the Rocky Mountain Women's Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "50792237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50792237", "title": "Venecia, Puente de Rialto (Giorgio de Chirico)", "text": "Venecia, Puente de Rialto (Giorgio de Chirico)\n\nVenecia, Puente de Rialto is an oil painting by Giorgio of Chirico from 1950. The style of this work moves away from his metaphysical landscapes, characterized by the inclusion of architecture, sculptures and big empty spaces.\n\nThe strong impression that the Italian squares and sights caused on Greek artists is evident in this painting.\nThe main motif in this work is the Grand Canal. It widens towards the front and some of the sumptuous Venetian edifications line its banks.\nThe Puente de Rialto is the centre of the composition. It stands out by its white colour, imitated only by one of the lateral constructions.\n"}
{"id": "25271160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25271160", "title": "Vincent Brooks, Day &amp; Son", "text": "Vincent Brooks, Day &amp; Son\n\nVincent Brooks, Day & Son was a major British lithographic firm most widely known for reproducing the weekly caricatures published in \"Vanity Fair\" magazine. The company was formed in 1867 when Vincent Brooks bought the name, good will and some of the property of Day & Son Ltd, which had gone into liquidation that year. The firm reproduced artwork and illustrations and went on to print many of the iconic London Underground posters of the twenties and thirties before being wound up in 1940.\n\nCompany literature holds 1848 as the year that Vincent Robert Alfred Brooks (1815–1885) first set up in business. His father was the radical printer and stationer John Brooks of 421 Oxford Street. John Brooks has been described as the publisher of the Owenites because of his association with the early socialist Robert Owen. He was a member of the second council of the National Political Union and is probably most noted for his edition of the radicals and reformers favourite, Shelley’s Queen Mab.\n\nAfter leaving school, Vincent Brooks spent time on John Minter Morgan's farm estate near Uxbridge before returning to London to join his father in business. Around 1840 John Brooks relocated to the Channel Island of Jersey where he continued to trade as a wholesale stationer and paper merchant. Vincent was left with the business in London. At some time during this period he was also associated with Charles Robertson, an artists’ colourman based in Long Acre.\n\nIt is not certain at what point Vincent Brooks first practised lithography. A number of his early pieces were shown at the Great Exhibition of 1851. The following year the business moved from Oxford Street to 40 King Street, Covent Garden.\n\nVincent conducted lithographic classes at Marlborough House during 1855 in what was destined to become the Royal College of Art. He was entrusted with the Princess Royal's Dying Soldier on the Battlefield, which was reproduced and sold in aid of the Patriotic fund. The following year the Arundel Society commissioned a series of lithographs to be issued yearly to their subscribers. An effort described as ‘…the most important non-commercial application of chromolithography’ in the country at the time. However, the Arundel Society complained, maybe unjustly, about the quality or the lack of expertise in depicting religious subjects. The prints were also hampered by delays and by 1860 production had been switched to a German firm.\n\nThe Leighton Brothers, who would go on to produce the pictures featured in the Illustrated London News, left their Red Lion Square premises in 1857. Vincent Brooks is reported to have taken over the remaining plant.\n\nStaying in the Covent Garden area of London, two years later, during 1859, Vincent Brooks moved to larger premises in Chandos Street. The street is now renamed Chandos Place. Work from this era is marked either as Vincent Brooks Lith. or Vincent Brooks imp.\n\nLondon's International Exhibition of 1862 saw Vincent Brooks awarded a gold medal for his Lithograph of Mulready’s ‘Choosing the Wedding Gown’. The same year Vincent Brooks produced one of his finest works in the form of a chromo-lithograph of the Lumley Portrait of William Shakespeare. It is even reported that the reproduction was so complete that one was sold for forty guineas to a purchaser who thought he was buying the original portrait.\n\nDuring the 1860s, Vincent Brooks acquired plant and premises of Messrs J.S.Hodgson & Son of High Street Lambeth and he embarked in letterpress and colour block printing. The firm also fought off competition from Day & Son and Messrs Hanhart Bros in reproducing one of John Leech’s cartoons of Jorrocks in a competition organised by Punch Magazine. The company’s winning entry was reproduced by one of their leading chromo-lithographic artists, William B. Bunney, and the firm’s success led to many years of work from Punch.\n\nIn 1865 Vincent Brooks became involved with the ‘inventor’ of colour printing George Baxter. He purchased many of Baxter's plates and printed them using Baxter's presses which he had lent him on the understanding that George Baxter Jr. took up the management of them and that George Baxter himself supervised the work. It was a complex process that required up to 20 blocks per image. The process failed to pay its way and Brooks sold the plant four years later to Abraham Le Blond.\n\n1866 saw Vincent Brooks joined in business by his second eldest son who was to eventually take over after his father's death. Vincent's eldest son Alfred William Brooks had preceded his younger brother into the firm but ‘never had very robust health’ and by 1901 had left the business. Later that year the firm purchased William Willis’ remarkable Aniline process of direct photography, which reproduced engineering ‘blue prints’ keeping the original positive image.\n\nAt Paris's Exposition Universelle, held during 1867, Vincent Brooks won a gold medal for ‘the excellence of their reproductions’.\n\nVincent Brooks had started negotiating to take over the business of Day & Son Ltd during 1866. Financially assisted by the Mr. Henry Graves, the Printseller of Pall Mall, Vincent Brooks bought their property, name, and goodwill in an agreement dated 25 March 1867. The firm now became known as Vincent Brooks, Day & Son.\n\nThe firm of William Day, later Day & Son, has been described as one of the largest and most prominent lithographic firms of the second third of the nineteenth century. Company documents record William Day's business starting in 1823 although the first known lithograph was produced the following year. By 1829 the firm had moved from 59 Great Queen Street to 17 Gate Street.\n\nFrom the early thirties the company was often referred to as Day & Haghe. This was due to the popularity of the work of Louis Haghe a Belgian draughtsman and water colourist who worked for the company until 1852 when he left to focus on painting.\nThe firm was granted the status of ‘Lithographers to Queen Victoria and to the Queen Dowager, Queen Adelaide’ in 1837 although they were not the only lithographers to be awarded the Royal Warrant. William Day Senior died in 1845 leaving the business in the hands of his son William Day Junior. The company now became known as Day & Son.\n\nThe 1850s started with a prize medal at the Great Exhibition for their display of lithography. In the mid fifties the premises in Gate Street were enlarged and the Prince of Wales and Prince Alfred visited (probably the completed works) in 1856.\n\nIn 1851, Day & Son was commissioned by Matthew Digby Wyatt, known for his work as an architect, to produce the book \"The Industrial Arts of the Nineteenth Century\", an imposing imperial folio in two volumes which illustrates a selection of items from the Great Exhibition of 1851. There are 160 chromolithographed plates. Wyatt himself stated that he had used 'the best means of graphic representation available'. Wyatt proudly drew attention to the previously unsurpassed scale and speed of production of the book. But what brought the entire project into being was the desire of Day & Son to demonstrate the potential of chromolithography. The firm was particularly associated with the process. However, as Wyatt himself explained, the proposal was not even formalized until after the Great Exhibition had opened. Such a grandiose production must have called into play a significant proportion of Day's resources, including skilled craftsmen and lithographers such as Francis Bedford, J.A. Vinter and Henry Rafter, as well as significant capital, and management. According to Wyatt, four or five of Day's staff were constantly engaged upon the business details of the operation alone.\n\nIn 1861 the firm printed a large run of bank notes for Lajos Kossuth, the famous Hungarian patriot and democratic. Kossuth was in exile from his homeland and this attempt at re-establishing a separate Hungarian currency lead to both him and Day & Son to be charged in the courts with having ‘levied war upon the Emperor of Austria’. The affair ended with Day & Son delivering the notes to the Bank of England where they were duly burnt.\n\nThe firm now started to experience financial difficulties. Many stock auctions were held, the first, of engravings, taking place in 1865. That year Day & Son became a Limited Company. This not only meant that capital could be raised by the sale of shares but also that, in some cases, employees could be paid partly in shares in lieu of real wages. Another auction, this time of illustrated books, was held in 1866. Hodgson & Co. would continue to sell off Day & Son assets up until 1873.\n\nDespite their other business worries by 1866 Day & Son Ltd, as well as Gate Street, had premises at 43 Piccadilly and at The German Gallery, New Bond Street. These were show rooms and exhibition spaces for the company's work. They also took on the well-known photographer Vernon Heath to manage the photographic department.\n\nSince becoming a limited company, directorship was conditional on holding at least five hundred shares. Just two years after incorporation it was pointed out to William Day Junior that he no longer fulfilled this criterion. He refused to leave the board and after the resulting row he left the company and for a short time started business in Cockspur Street.\n\nThe firm now faced liquidation and was taken over by Vincent Brooks.\n\nVincent Brooks now consolidated the new combined business in Day & Son's Gate Street premises. A later obituary published in a trade journal praises Vincent Brooks's handling of the situation stating that ‘the way in which he combined together the two businesses testified to his energy and experience, and the way in which they formed a harmonious whole, were a record of his remarkable tact and kindness.’\nA year after the merger, 1868, Gibson Bowles began planning his new \"Vanity Fair\" magazine. His new brand of society weekly was to carry satirical caricatures of the men of the day lithographed by Vincent Brooks. At a time when Punch magazine was still primarily using wood blocks this ‘process of chromolithography and wedding it to a new kind of visual humour helped to bring about a revolution in taste, preparing the way for the acceptance of less strictly representational art forms and breaching the fortifications of academic realism.’ The first issue to carry a cartoon came out in January 1869 featuring a portrait of Benjamin Disraeli. Later the magazine would claim that, \n\nBack in Chandos Street the firm had received a Command from the Queen to execute lithographs of Kenneth MacLeay's watercoloured Highlanders of Scotland. These featured the principle clans and the retainers of the Royal Household at Balmoral and are known as the artist's best works. By 1870 the originals had appeared at an exhibition at Mitchell's Royal Library in Old Bond Street with the lithographs being sold in two volumes later that year.\n\nBy the 1870s the firm was employing over one hundred and forty men and forty boys and in 1885 acquired the remaining part of Leighton bros.\n\nOn 29 September 1885 Vincent Brooks died in Spalding & Hodge Counting House, Drury Lane. He was succeeded in the business by his son (1848–1921).\nFrederick and his older brother Alfred appeared in the bankruptcy courts in 1898 and on 14 May that year the company was incorporated as Vincent Brooks, Day & Son Ltd. During this time the firm's premises in Gate Street were badly damaged by fire. It started around ten o'clock in the evening of Sunday 10 April and quickly spread through the buildings. It is reported that 'the whole of the main building, containing about 40 printing machines and a great quantity of type, had been entirely destroyed'. As a result, the run of Vanity Fair prints temporarily switched to colour offsets produced by P.W. Van De Weyer over in the Netherlands and the firm moved to a new home in Parker Street just a couple of minutes walk west of Gate Street.\n\nFrom January 1906 \"Vanity Fair\" used a number of other (probably cheaper) firms to produce their caricatures. This decision was reversed in 1911 with the arrival of editor Thomas Allinson who, struggling with the now failing magazine, wished to revert to the process whereby 'the most satisfactory results' had been obtained. Vanity Fair magazine finally ceased publication in 1914. Its forty-five year run of caricatures ended as Allinson absorbed it into his \"Hearth and Home\" magazine.\n\nThe start of the century also saw Frederick Vincent Brooks write an article for the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica and become the official printer of the Senefelder Club.\n\nFrederick died on 7 August 1921 and the business passed to two of his sons, Wilfred Vincent Brooks and Frederick Allan Brooks. Two years later the firm celebrated their centenary. Wilfred remarked that ‘although there were older firms in existence that were now practising lithography, no other house had been established as lithographic printers for so long a period as theirs.’ During the evening's celebration it was also announced that a former apprentice Thomas Edgar Griffits had been co-opted onto the firm's board of directors.\nDuring the twenties and thirties the art of the poster reached its pinnacle. Under the guidance of Frank Pick, the London Underground embraced the likes of John Hassall and Edward McKnight Kauffer. Artists were directly commissioned and it was believed that the influence of good design could extend to enrich every aspect of life. This was a common theme during the thirties. Wilfred Vincent Brooks served as chairman of the Commercial Printing Section of the Royal Academy of Art's exhibition ‘British Art in Industry’ held during 1935. He expressed his own sentiments in a speech soon after,\n\nDuring this period Wilfred was ‘a valuable member of the Colour Lithography Committee of the London Master Printers’ Association and was also a member of the London Central Districts Master Printers’ Association.’ He was chairman of the Education Committee and member of the Advisory Sub-committee, with the London County Council School of Photo-Engraving and Lithography in Bolt Street, Fleet Street, and was an inspector of the London printing schools for the Board of Education.\n\nIt was later reported that business had been continuing with ‘fluctuating results up until 1919 and then had had a general upward trend in turnover. Dividends at the rate of 10% per annum were paid for each of the eight years to 1927. Dividends for the four following years were lower and no dividends were paid after 1931. From 1932 to 1940 profits were earned in only two years namely, 1937 and 1938. In an effort to raise funds the lease on the premises was sold in 1939 but this did little to bring in new business which had been affected by the start of World War Two. Finally a creditor petitioned the Companies Court and a Winding-up Order was made on 5 February 1940.\n\nThe official Receiver concluded his report stating that ‘the Receiver for the debenture holder is continuing the business in the hopes of disposing of it as a going concern, but he states that having regard to the specialised and somewhat ancient type of plant he doubts whether the assets will realise sufficient to discharge the debenture liability, particularly bearing in mind the somewhat heavy claims of the preferential creditors.’ \n\nSanders Phillips and Co. Ltd took over the company in the same year. Nine months later the Parker Street premises were destroyed by fire during an air raid, but the company, operating from London offices in Norfolk Street, Strand, son established Government contracts for reproducing maps for Bomber Command, plans for M.I.8, and, after ‘D’ Day, ‘communication maps’ which were collected by the R.A.F. and flown direct to France.\n\nWhen these contracts ran out at the end of the war, it was decided to specialise in the reproduction of town and country planning maps. Typical of this work was a new series of land utilisation maps for King's College Geographic Department, which were produced in 11 colours.\nLater examples include motorways and transport maps for the Greater London Council.\n\nSanders Phillips and Co became a part of the International Publishing Corporation (IPC) in 1963 operating as a subsidiary of the parent company. The IPC were in turn acquired by the Reed Group in 1969 who created Reed International plc to control its UK subsidiaries.\n\nIn 1976 Reed International sold off Vincent Brooks, Day & Son to the firms chief draughtsman Sidney Reed. Up until his retirement in the 1990s Sidney Reed continued to run the company on a small-scale basis using outside printers, notably Round Square Ltd, to produce the work he had created. Round Square Ltd took ownership of Vincent Brooks, Day & Son after Sidney Reed's retirement but went into liquidation themselves some time prior to 1999.\n\nTen years after this Sidney Reed's son Barry revived the company name and, although not currently trading, is keeping alive the name of the company that his father dedicated virtually his whole working life to.\n\n"}
{"id": "1567642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1567642", "title": "Wheatfield with Crows", "text": "Wheatfield with Crows\n\nWheatfield with Crows is a July 1890 painting by Vincent van Gogh. It has been cited by several critics as one of his greatest works.\n\nIt is commonly stated that this was van Gogh's final painting. However, art historians are uncertain as to which painting was van Gogh's last, as no clear historical records exist. The evidence of his letters suggests that \"Wheatfield with Crows\" was completed around 10 July and predates such paintings as \"Auvers Town Hall on 14 July 1890\" and \"Daubigny's Garden\". Moreover, Jan Hulsker points out that a painting of harvested wheat, \"Field with Stacks of Wheat\" (F771), must be a later painting.\n\nThe Van Gogh Museum's \"Wheatfield with Crows\" was painted in July 1890, in the last weeks of van Gogh’s life. Many have claimed it as his last painting, while it is also possible \"Tree Roots\", or the previously mentioned \"Daubigny's Garden\", was his final painting.\n\n\"Wheat Field with Crows,\" made on a double-square canvas, depicts a dramatic, cloudy sky filled with crows over a wheat field. A sense of isolation is heightened by a central path leading nowhere and by the uncertain direction of flight of the crows. The windswept wheat field fills two-thirds of the canvas. Jules Michelet, one of van Gogh's favorite authors, wrote of crows: \"They interest themselves in everything, and observe everything. The ancients, who lived far more completely than ourselves in and with nature, found it no small profit to follow, in a hundred obscure things where human experience as yet affords no light, the directions of so prudent and sage a bird.\" Kathleen Erickson finds the painting as expressing both sorrow and a sense of his life coming to an end. The crows are used by van Gogh as a symbol of death and rebirth, or of resurrection. The road, in contrasting colors of red and green, is said by Erickson to be a metaphor for a sermon he gave based on Bunyan's \"The Pilgrim's Progress\" where the pilgrim is sorrowful that the road is so long, yet rejoices because the Eternal City waits at the journey's end.\n\nAbout 10 July 1890 van Gogh wrote to his brother Theo and his wife Jo Bonger, saying that he had painted another three large canvases at Auvers since visiting them in Paris on 6 July. Two of these are described as immense stretches of wheatfields under turbulent skies, thought to be \"Wheatfield under Clouded Sky\" and \"Wheatfield with Crows\", and the third is \"Daubigny's Garden\". He wrote that he had made a point of expressing sadness, later adding \"extreme loneliness\" (\"de la solitude extrême\"), but also says he believes the canvases show what he considers healthy and fortifying about the countryside (and adds that he intended to take them to Paris as soon as possible).\n\nWalther and Metzger, in \"Van Gogh: The Complete Paintings\", state that \"There is nothing in van Gogh's words to support a simplistic interpretation along the lines of artistic \"angst\" and despair – nor is there any evidence for the widely-held belief that it was this painting that van Gogh had on his easel at the time he killed himself.\" They refer to a June 1880 letter of van Gogh's, in which he compared himself to a bird in a cage, and remark: \"The crows in the painting, in other words, were an altogether personal symbol closely associated with van Gogh's own life\".\n\nThese painting are all examples of van Gogh's elongated double-square canvases, used exclusively by him in the last few weeks of his life, in June and July 1890.\n\nThe painting is held in the collection of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, as is \"Wheatfield under Clouded Sky\".\n\n\n"}
