{"id": "463115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463115", "title": "Anti-Monopoly", "text": "Anti-Monopoly\n\nAnti-Monopoly is a board game made by San Francisco State University Professor Ralph Anspach, in response to \"Monopoly\".\n\nAnspach created \"Anti-Monopoly\" in part as a response to the lessons taught by the mainstream game, which he believed created the impression that monopolies were something desirable. His intent was to demonstrate how harmful monopolies could be to a free-enterprise system, and how antitrust laws work to curtail them in the real world.\n\nThe game was originally to be produced in 1973 as \"Bust the Trust\", but the title was changed to \"Anti-Monopoly\". It has seen multiple printings and revisions since 1973. In 1984, a new version appeared as \"Anti-Monopoly II\"; this version was updated and re-released in 2005 without the numerical designation. The game is currently still in print, and is produced and distributed worldwide by University Games.\n\nThe original \"Anti-Monopoly\" game begins with the board in a monopolised state, effectively the result of a completed \"Monopoly\" game. Instead of real estate and public utilities, properties in \"Anti-Monopoly\" are individual businesses that have been brought under single ownership. Players take the role of federal case workers bringing indictments against each monopolised business in an attempt to return the state of the board to a free market system.\n\nIn \"Anti-Monopoly II\" individual players choose to play either by monopolist or competitor rules at the beginning of the game. This version plays more like the actual \"Monopoly\" game in that it is based on the buying and selling of real estate. Among other differences, competitors charge lower rents and can improve any property they own at any time, while monopolists must own at least two properties in a group before building houses on them and charge much higher rents.\n\nIn 1974, Parker Brothers sued Anspach over the use of the \"Monopoly\" name, claiming trademark infringement. While preparing his legal defense, Anspach became aware of \"Monopoly\"s history prior to Charles Darrow's sale of the game to Parker in 1935, and how it had evolved from Elizabeth Magie's original \"Landlord's Game\" into the version Darrow appropriated. Anspach based his defense on the grounds that the game itself existed in effectively the public domain before Parker purchased it, and therefore Parker's trademark claim on it should be nullified. The case dragged on for ten years, with numerous appeals and overturned judicial verdicts, until Anspach and Parker ultimately reached a settlement, permitting him to continue using the name \"Anti-Monopoly\" and distributing the game.\n\nFor a time during the dispute, the game was marketed as simply \"Anti.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9736458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9736458", "title": "Antonio Sacco", "text": "Antonio Sacco\n\nAntonio Sacchi (1708–1788) was an Italian improvisational actor, renowned for his performance as the Commedia dell'arte stock character Truffaldino. Sacchi's lasting influence was in requesting playwright Carlo Goldoni to lay a dramatic structure to his improvised routines, with the resulting plays \"Truffaldino's 32 Mishaps\" (1738–40), \"Truffaldino's Son Lost and Found\" (1746), and the masterpiece \"A Servant of Two Masters\" (1745–53) being the best permanent record of what was an impromptu and momentary art form. Sacchi toured throughout Europe with his own Commedia troupe from 1738 to 1753, and both David Garrick and Casanova spoke highly of his talents.\n"}
{"id": "30978295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30978295", "title": "Asian Americans in government and politics", "text": "Asian Americans in government and politics\n\nAsian Americans have a high level of political incorporation in terms of their actual voting population. However, as a result of this group's historically low voting rates, overall political incorporation of the general population is relatively low. Although the population of this group has increased in size by 600% in 30 years due to immigration, heavy naturalization and voter outreach efforts have provided this primarily foreign-born community with less than 1% of voters. The low political incorporation of Asian Americans has posed a concern especially when the fact that the group is the fastest growing demographic in the U.S. is taken into account.\n\nIn some areas where Asian Americans have large populations, Asian Americans have elected Asian American candidates at the city and local level; examples of this include Vietnamese Americans in Orange County and Chinese Americans in San Francisco. However, this is not always the case.\n\nGeorge Ariyoshi, who served as the Governor of Hawaii from 1974 to 1986, was the first American of Asian descent to be elected governor of a state of the United States. He continues to hold the record as the longest-serving state governor in Hawaii.\n\nDavid Ige, current governor of Hawaii since December 1, 2014, is of Japanese-American descent, like Ariyoshi, and is additionally the first person of Okinawan descent to hold office in the U.S.\n\nBenjamin Jerome \"Ben\" Cayetano served as the fifth Governor of the State of Hawaiʻi from 1994 to 2002. He is the first Filipino American to serve as a state governor in the United States.\n\nIn 1996 Gary Locke was elected governor of the state of Washington, becoming the first Chinese American to be elected governor in United States history and the first Asian American governor on the mainland. Locke served as governor from 1997-2005.\n\nBobby Jindal served in various executive positions in Louisiana and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services before being elected to the Congress in 2004, and finally winning the Louisiana gubernatorial elections in 2007 (thereby becoming the first non-white governor of Louisiana since Reconstruction), the first elected Indian American governor in U.S. history, as well as the second Asian American governor to serve in the continental United States.\n\nNikki Haley served as the 116th Governor of South Carolina from 2011 to 2017. Haley previously represented Lexington County in the South Carolina House of Representatives from 2005 to 2010. She is the first Sikh American governor in the United States, first female governor of South Carolina, second elected Indian American governor in U.S. history, as well as the third Asian American governor to serve in the continental United States. Nikki Haley's election wasn't the only first for Asian Americans to occur during the 2010 election cycle.\n\nIn California, Kamala Harris, who is half-Indian American, became the first female, first African American, and first Asian American state attorney general in the United States. Other Asian-Americans serving in statewide office in California include State Treasurer John Chiang and State Controller Betty Yee.\n\nWith his victory in 2011, David Oh became the first Asian-American elected to political office in the City of Philadelphia. He is currently serving his first term as City Councilman At-Large, Minority Whip.\n\nIn New Jersey, Ravinder Bhalla, was the first Sikh, Indian-American elected to mayor of Hoboken in 2017.\n\nBenito Legarda y Tuason and Pablo Ocampo joined the House in 1907 as Resident Commissioners, becoming the first Asian Americans to serve in the Congress, albeit as non-voting members, and beginning the representation of the Philippines which ended in 1946.\n\nDalip Singh Saund, an Indian American from Imperial and Riverside Counties, was the first South Asian American elected into Congress, and was one of only three Indian Americans to have been elected, serving from 1957 to 1963. Hiram Fong, who served three decades in the Senate from 1959 to 1977, became the first Chinese American member of Congress, and first Asian American senator. Daniel Inouye (who served from 1959-2012) was the first Japanese American in the House and later the first in Senate. Spark Matsunaga was the second Japanese American to serve in the House (served 1971-77). Matsunaga and S. I. Hayakawa were the second and third Japanese Americans to serve in the Senate. Matsunaga served in the Senate between 1977 and 1990, while Hayakawa served in the Senate between 1977 and 1983.\n\nPatsy Mink (served 1965-77 and again from 1990–2002) was the first Asian American woman and the first Japanese American woman to serve in Congress. Norman Mineta (served 1975-95) was the fourth Japanese American to serve in the House. Bob Matsui (served 1979-2005) was the fifth Japanese American to serve in the House. Daniel Kahikina Akaka, appointed as U.S. senator of Hawaii in 1990, and then subsequently reelected for two terms in 1994 and 2000, is the first senator of native Hawaiian descent. Bobby Scott, elected in 1993, is the first US born member of Congress to have Filipino ancestry. He was joined by Jay Kim, the first Korean American to be elected to Congress, as well as the first Korean elected to a national office outside of Korea; since he left office there have been no Korean Americans in Congress. In 1998, David Wu was elected and became the only Chinese American of Taiwanese ancestry to serve be a member of Congress. Wu resigned in 2011, which was followed by a brief absence of Taiwanese Americans in Congress until the election of Grace Meng in 2012.\n\nJohn Ensign, who is part Filipino American, was elected to the senate in 2000 and resigned in 2011; there have been no Filipino American senators since. In 2008, Joseph Cao of Louisiana became the first elected Vietnamese American in Congress; since he left office in 2011 there have been no Vietnamese Americans in Congress. Also in 2008, Multiracial Filipino American Steve Austria was elected, becoming the first first-generation Filipino elected to Congress, he chose not to run for re-election in 2012. In 2010, Inouye was sworn in as President Pro Tempore making him the highest-ranking Asian American politician in American history. That same year, Charles Djou became the first Thai American to be elected to Congress; he left Congress in 2011, and no Thai American served in the Congress until Tammy Duckworth was elected in 2012 as the first female Thai American, as well as the first Thailand-born representative. In 2011, Representative Hansen Clarke became the first Bangladeshi American to service in Congress; he lost his seat after being defeated in the 2012 primary, no Bangladeshi Americans have served in Congress since.\n\nThere are presently 15 Asian Pacific Americans in the House and 3 in the Senate, in the 115th United States Congress. The following marks the total number of Asian Americans in the U.S. Congress since 1957: 33 representatives and 9 senators. Representatives include those from Japanese, Taiwanese, Filipino, Thai, Indian, Samoan, and Vietnamese American backgrounds.\n\nRepresentatives Colleen Hanabusa, Doris Matsui, Mark Takano, and Senator Mazie Hirono are Japanese American.\n\nRepresentative Judy Chu is Chinese American.\n\nRepresentatives Grace Meng and Ted Lieu are Taiwanese Americans.\n\nRepresentative Bobby Scott is Filipino American.\n\nSenator Tammy Duckworth is Thai American.\n\nRepresentatives Ami Bera, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Pramila Jayapal, Ro Khanna, and Senator Kamala Harris are Indian American.\n\nRepresentative Tulsi Gabbard and Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen are Samoan American.\n\nRepresentative Stephanie Murphy is Vietnamese American.\n\nNote that Scott and Harris both are multiracial; Scott is one-fourth Filipino and three-fourths African American, while Harris is one-half Indian and one-half African American.\n\nNorman Mineta became the first Asian American cabinet member, serving as Secretary of Commerce in 2000, then was appointed Secretary of Transportation between 2001 and 2006. Elaine Chao was selected as a White House Fellow, and then served in a series of appointed posts prior to becoming the Secretary of Labor from 2001 to 2009; she became the first, and as of February 2011 only, Asian American woman to be in the U.S. Cabinet. Neel Kashkari became the first Indian American to serve at the secretary level when President Bush appointed him Assistant Secretary of the Treasury to oversee the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) from October 2008 through May 2009.\n\nGary Locke became the first Chinese American Secretary of Commerce, and the third Asian American in the present cabinet. He joined Energy Secretary Steven Chu and Veteran Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki, tying the Bush Administration for having the most Asian Americans in cabinet positions in United States history. By June 2014, all Asian Americans on the Obama Administration cabinet had resigned; in the first time since 2000, there were no Asian Americans on the U.S. Cabinet.\n\nOn January 25, 2017, Nikki Haley was sworn in as United States Ambassador to the United Nations following her nomination by Donald Trump. She became the first Indian American to serve in a Cabinet-level government position on a permanent basis.\n\nFrom the 1940s to the 1990s most Asian Americans were anti-communist refugees who had fled mainland China, North Korea or Vietnam, and were strongly anti-Communist. Many had ties to conservative organizations. In recent years, more liberal Asian-American groups such as newer Chinese and Indian immigrants have greatly changed the Asian-American political demographics, as well as a larger proportion of younger Asian Americans, many of whom have completed college degrees.\n\nDuring the 1990s and 2000s, Asian American voting behavior shifted from moderate support for the Republican Party to stronger support for the Democratic Party. In the 1992 presidential election Republican George H. W. Bush received 55% of the Asian-American vote compared to 31% for Democrat Bill Clinton. Asian Americans voted Republican and were the only racial group more conservative than whites in the 1990s, according to surveys. By the 2004 election, Democrat John Kerry won 56% of the Asian American vote, with Chinese and Indian Americans tending to support Kerry, and Vietnamese and Filipino Americans tending to support George Bush. Japanese-Americans leaned towards Kerry, while Korean-Americans leaned towards Bush. Democrat Barack Obama won 62% of the Asian American vote in the 2008 presidential election, with the margin increasing during the 2012 presidential election, where Asian Americans voted to re-elect Obama by 73%. In the 2014 midterm elections, based on exit polls, 50% of Asian Americans voted Republican, while 49% voted Democrat; this swing towards voting for Republicans was a shift from the strong Democratic vote in 2012, and had not reached 50% since 1996. The 2016 National Asian American Survey, conducted before the 2016 presidential election, found that 55% of Asian American registered voters supported Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and only 14% supported Republican candidate Donald Trump.\n\nDespite their growing trend of voting for Democrats in national elections, Asian Americans have tended to identify as independents and have not developed strong ties to political parties as a group. Due to the smaller size of the groups population, in comparison to the population as a whole, it has been difficult to get an adequate sampling to forecast voter outcomes for Asian Americans. In 2008, polls indicated that 35% considered themselves non-partisan, 32% Democrats, 19% independents, and 14% Republicans. The 2012 National Asian American Survey found that 51% considered themselves non-partisan, 33% Democrats, 14% Republicans, and 2% Other; Hmong, Indian, and Korean Americans strongly identified as Democrats, and Filipino and Vietnamese Americans most strongly identified as Republicans. In 2013, according to the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund, Chinese Americans were the least likely Asian American ethnicity to have a party affiliation, with only one third belonging to a party. The 2016 National Asian American Survey found that 41% of Asian Americans identified as non-partisan, 41% as Democrats (a modest increase from 2008 and 2012), and 16% as Republicans.\n\nNeither the Republican nor Democratic parties have financed significant efforts to the registration of Asian Americans, however much more attention has been focused on contributions from Asian Americans, having once been referred to as potential \"Republican Jews\". As recently as 2006, the outreach efforts of America's two major political parties have been unbalanced, with the Democratic Party devoting more resources in attracting Asian Americans. In 2016, a majority of Asian-Americans possessed the same political views on racial profiling, education, social security, and immigration reform as the Democratic Party; the efforts to attract Asian-Americans has produced a proportionally significant growth in Democratic affiliation by Asian-Americans from 2012 to 2016 by 12 percent. In 2016, Vietnamese and Filipinos were the least likely Asian Americans to support the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton, with Vietnamese the most likely to back the presidential campaign of Donald Trump. Political affiliation aside, Asian Americans have trended to become more politically active as a whole, with 2008 seeing an increase of voter participation by 4% to a 49% voting rate. In 2017, it was reported by the \"Washington Post\" that Asian Americans born outside of the United States trended to be more conservative, and more likely to identify as Republicans, while those who were born in the United States, who were generally younger, were more likely to identify being a Democrat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8873093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8873093", "title": "Bang for the buck", "text": "Bang for the buck\n\nBang for the buck is an idiom meaning the worth of one's money or exertion. The phrase originated from the slang usage of the words \"bang\" which means \"excitement\" and \"buck\" which means \"money\". Variations of the term include \"bang for your buck,\" \"bang for one's buck,\" \"more bang for the buck,\" \"bigger bang for the buck,\" and mixings of these. \"More bang for the buck\" was preceded by \"more bounce to the ounce\", an advertising slogan used in 1950 to market the carbonated soft drink Pepsi.\n\nThe phrase \"bigger bang for the buck\" was notably used by U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Secretary of Defense, Charles Erwin Wilson, in 1954. He used it to describe the New Look policy of depending on nuclear weapons, rather than a large regular army, to keep the Soviet Union in check. Today, the phrase is used to mean a greater worth for the money used.\n\nWilliam Safire discussed \"bang for the buck\" in his 1968 book, \"New Language of Politics\". Safire stated that U.S. Secretary of Defense Charles Erwin Wilson used the phrase in 1954 to summarize the New Look policy. The New Look, a 1950s national security policy during the administration of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, was called \"more bang for the buck\" and \"bigger bang for the buck\". \"More bang for the buck\" was also used in the late 1960s by the U.S. military to refer to how it wanted to receive more combat power from the armaments it possessed. The United States, instead of supporting a large regular army, increasingly depended on nuclear weapons to hold the Soviet Union in check.\n\n\"Bigger bang for the buck\" is similar to the phrase \"more bounce to the ounce\", an advertising catchphrase used in 1950 by PepsiCo to market its soft drink product Pepsi.\n\nSometimes the phrase is used to mean \"a better value for the money spent\".\n\nIn 2001, author Matthew L. Stone wrote that the phrase \"has been overused almost to the point of becoming meaningless\". In her 2010 book \"The Trouble with Thinking\", Lauren Powers wrote that whenever she hears the cliché \"bigger bang for the buck\", she becomes \"distracted\" by the phrase's history and cannot continue paying attention to the speaker's words.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22055418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22055418", "title": "BattleBlock Theater", "text": "BattleBlock Theater\n\nBattleBlock Theater is a comedy platform game developed by The Behemoth and published by Microsoft Studios for Xbox 360, Windows, Mac, and Linux. It is the third title from The Behemoth following \"Alien Hominid\" and \"Castle Crashers\". The game was released on Xbox Live Arcade on April 3, 2013, and later temporarily made free via Games with Gold on July 16, 2014.\n\nIn \"BattleBlock Theater\", players control a prisoner as they are forced to play through games devised by Hatty Hattington. Controls are simple, with the game largely consisting of running, jumping and punching. Levels are made up of various types of blocks, such as collapsing blocks, sticky walls, bouncy volcanic rocks and deadly spikes, and also feature hazards such as water and deadly creatures.\n\nThe main mode in the game is Adventure Mode, which can be played solo or co-operatively with a second player. This mode can be played either in normal mode (with checkpoints) or insane mode (no checkpoints, meaning if the player dies, they have to restart the level). During co-operative play, players are able to work together to overcome obstacles, which includes throwing them across gaps, using their heads as platforms and helping each other up ledges, although there is just as much opportunity of partner sabotage. Adventure mode consists of various worlds each with a set of levels. In order to progress to the next world, players need to collect gems which can also be used to unlock new customizable parts and complete a 'Boss Level' (timed level). Players can also collect balls of yarn which they can use to bribe cat guards and unlock new weapons, such as frisbees and vacuum cleaners. Collecting all gems and the yarn with a time good enough to get the clock stamp will get the player an A++ in the level and two extra gems.\n\nIn some levels, players can also have a chance to get a golden hat, which pops up in a random location at a random time, and are each worth ten extra gems. However, when the player dies, the golden hat they are carrying will stay at the point they had died (or be destroyed, depending on where it lands) until the player picks it up again.\n\nArena mode is a competitive mode for up to four players, which is played in teams of 2. There are several match types including:\n\nAlong with a Time Attack mode, the game also features a Level Editor, which allows players to create their own stages for any game type. These levels can be assembled into a playlist, consisting of various Adventure and Arena levels, and uploaded to the community for others to download. There is also additional content unlocked for players who also own \"Castle Crashers\" and \"Alien Hominid HD\".\n\nAlmost all of the game's cut-scenes are done in a stick puppet style. The game begins with the narrator (voiced by Will Stamper) telling the adventures of the hundreds of friends aboard the S.S. Friendship, as well as Hatty Hattington, who is known as \"best friend to one and all\". After encountering a heavy storm, the S.S. Friendship becomes shipwrecked on a mysterious, seemingly abandoned island, and the crew itself vanishes. Upon waking up from the wreck, the player character seeks shelter from the storm in a dilapidated theater.\n\nUpon coming to, it is revealed that the entire crew of the S.S. Friendship is being held prisoner by cats, with Hatty as their apparent new leader. The player is then released from their cell and forced into deadly games by the feline wardens. The cats, who force their prisoners into deadly theater performances, watch with amusement as the player fights for their survival. As the player completes challenges, they find gems which are spent on unlocking fellow crew members to play as in these theater performances. Appearing to be possessed by the hat's unknown powers, Hatty begins working for the cats and against the player.\n\nAs the player progresses, the narrator reveals more about the theater. Hundreds of years before the player shipwrecked on the island, Purrham Furbottom, a theatrical aficionado, sought to build the world's greatest theater. The opening night saw the most jaw-dropping feats and thrills the likes of which were never seen before, making the theater an overnight success. However, Furbottom did not allow intermissions in the theater, and after an untold amount of time watching the show, he died after \"pooping himself to death on the way to the bathroom.\" Since then, his top hat has been passed down to various others, who were each revered by the cats as their leader, and who each met with grim fates of their own. The hat, the narrator theorizes, is haunted by the grief and sorrow of each of its past wearers, and Hatty is its current victim, having sunk into a depression while being surrounded by the many gems the player has accrued, without doing anything to help the state of the theater.\n\nEventually, the cats grow tired of Hatty's inaction, and begin rioting, striking, and more, while the player's challenges grow increasingly difficult. As the theater deteriorates further, the narrator provides encouragement to the player and continues to shed light on the cats' mental state, which grows more unstable as time progresses. The narrator also instructs the player to enter The Vault, which houses Hatty and all the gems the player has spent, before the cats kill Hatty and the rest of the crew, starting the madness over again.\n\nAfter completing the final set of challenges inside the Vault, the player breaks into Hatty's throne room. Hatty does not budge, so the player carries him out of the crumbling theater as the crew of the S.S. Friendship orchestrates a mass breakout. Everyone manages to make it back to the boat amidst the chaos, escaping the island and the cats that reside there. As the player celebrates with hot cocoa, he tries to cheer up Hatty, who the narrator says that he would not move, blink, respond to hugs, and talk. He also asks \"Where has he gone to?\", meaning that Hatty may have died. The narrator sings a sad song as the credits roll, before quickly recovering and singing a more happy, upbeat song, rocking the boat and flinging Hatty into the sea, where he sinks to the bottom. The hat lands on his head and begins glowing green as opposed to its usual red, and shoots a beam skyward, where it sends the boat flying and continues into space, where it vaporizes \"Alien Hominid\" from the game of the same name and a bear that appeared during the narrator's upbeat song, foreshadowing the events of \"Pit People\". The narrator claims to understand what just happened but does not explain, sending the game back to the title screen.\n\nThe company originally revealed an early playable version of the game, originally code-named \"Game #3\", at the Tokyo International Anime Festival on March 16, 2009 with a trailer of gameplay footage. The game has been released for Xbox Live Arcade and Steam. The game features user-generated music from the Newgrounds community and narration by Newgrounds contributor Will Stamper.\n\n\"BattleBlock Theater\" has received mainly positive reviews, with a Metacritic rating of 85. GamesRadar gave the game 4.5/5 stars, praising varied stages and extensive multiplayer modes. Destructoid gave the game 9/10, calling it \"a hallmark of excellence\". Official Xbox Magazine also gave the game 9/10, praising its vast content and community features, as did Eurogamer, who called it \"a masterclass in pure game design.\" IGN gave the game a score of 7.8, praising inventive level design, but criticising the platforming gameplay in comparison to other titles like \"Super Meat Boy\" and \"Braid\". Den of Geek! (US) gave it a score of 9.4/10, saying, 'the game makes for a great team-building exercise, or a backhanded way of saying “I don’t want to be friends anymore.”'\n\n"}
{"id": "986468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986468", "title": "Bimini Road", "text": "Bimini Road\n\nThe Bimini Road, sometimes called the Bimini Wall, is an underwater rock formation near North Bimini island in the Bahamas. The Road consists of a -long northeast-southwest linear feature composed of roughly rectangular to subrectangular limestone blocks. Various claims have been made for this feature being either a wall, road, pier, breakwater, or other man-made structure. However, credible evidence or arguments are lacking for such an origin.\n\nOn September 2, 1968, while diving in three fathoms () of water off the northwest coast of North Bimini island, Joseph Manson Valentine, Jacques Mayol and Robert Angove encountered an extensive \"pavement\" of what later was found to be noticeably rounded stones of varying size and thickness. This stone pavement was found to form a northeast-southwest linear feature, which is most commonly known as either the \"Bimini Road\" or \"Bimini Wall\". After Valentine, the Bimini Road has been visited and examined by geologists, avocational archaeologists, professional archaeologists, anthropologists, marine engineers, innumerable divers, and many other people. In addition to the Bimini Road, investigators have found two additional \"pavement-like\" linear features that lie parallel to and shoreward of the Bimini Wall.\n\nThe Bimini Wall and two linear features lying shoreward of it are composed of flat-lying, tabular, and rectangular, subrectangular, polygonal, and irregular blocks. Descriptions of the Bimini Road found in various books and articles greatly exaggerate the regularity and rectangularity of the blocks composing these features. The Bimini Road, the largest of three linear features, is long, a northeast/southwest-trending feature with a pronounced hook at its southwest end. It consists of stone blocks measuring as much as in horizontal dimensions, with the average size being . The larger blocks show complementary edges, which are lacking in the smaller blocks. The two narrower and shorter, approximately -long linear features lying shoreward of the Bimini Road consist of smaller tabular stone blocks that are only in maximum horizontal breadth. Having rounded corners, the blocks composing these pavements resemble giant loaves of bread. The blocks consist of limestone composed of carbonate-cemented shell hash that is called \"beachrock\". Beachrock is native to the Bahamas. The highly rounded nature of the blocks forming the Bimini Road indicates that a significant thickness of their original surface has been removed by biological, physical, and chemical processes. Given the degree that these blocks have been eroded, it is highly implausible that any original surface features, including any tool marks and inscriptions, would have survived this degree of erosion.\n\nAfter a very detailed examination of the Bimini Road and the other linear features, Gifford and Ball made the following observations.\n\nAs noted below, these observations are disputed by other investigators. For example, some investigators state that where sand had washed away between the seams, another course of blocks can be seen along with small blocks underlying these blocks. However, detailed evidence that clearly documents the alleged presence of a continuous second layer (course) of stones beneath the stones forming the currently exposed \"pavement\" has not yet been published in a reputable, scientific venue with the detail that is needed for critical evaluation. Pictures posted on various Web pages of stones alleged to be artificial \"wedge stones\" and \"prop stones\" fail as convincing evidence for a second course of stones because they are typically smaller in size, do not form a continuous course, and too infrequently lie directly beneath the blocks that form the surface of the Bimini Road. This is not what would be expected of an actual underlying course of man-made masonry.\n\nDavid Zink states:\n\nThis led him to conclude:\n\nIn addition, early studies of the Bimini Road, i.e. Gifford and Ball and David Zink, report taking numerous samples and cores for examination. It is also safe to presume that a certain number of the innumerable visitors to the Bimini Road have chipped off pieces of it. Scientific sampling and souvenir hunting would have left behind modern \"tool marks\" on the various blocks composing the Bimini Road for later investigators to find.\n\nAttempts have been made to determine the age of this feature using different techniques. These include direct radiocarbon dating of the stones composing the Bimini Road and Uranium-thorium dating of the marine limestone on which the Bimini Road lies.\n\nIn 1978, the radiocarbon laboratory operated by the Department of Geology at the University of Miami dated samples from a core collected by E. A. Shinn in 1977 from the Bimini Road. In 1979, Calvert and others reported dates of 2780±70 yr BP (UM-1359), 3500±80 yr BP (UM-1360), and 3350±90 yr BP (UM-1361) from whole-rock samples; a date of 3510±70 yr BP (UM-1362), from shells extracted from the beachrock core; and dates of 2770±80 yr BP (UM-1364) and 2840±70 yr BP (UM-1365) from carbonate cementing the beachrock core. These dates are temporally consistent in that the shells composing the beachrock core from the Bimini Road dated older than the cement holding them together as beachrock. These dates can be interpreted as indicating that the shells composing the Bimini Road are, uncorrected for temporal and environmental variations in radiocarbon, about 3,500 years old. Because of time-averaging and other taphonomic factors, a random collection of shells likely would yield a radiocarbon date that is a few hundred years earlier than when the final accumulation of shells, which were cemented to form beachrock, actually occurred. The radiocarbon dates from the cement demonstrate that the beachrock composing the Bimini Road formed about 2,800 radiocarbon years ago by the cementation of pre-existing sediments that accumulated about 1,300 years earlier. Compared to the dates from the shells and the cement, it appears that the whole-rock dates reflect samples containing varying proportions of shell and cement without any significant contamination by younger radiocarbon. Both these dates and interpretation are consistent with the detailed research by Davaud and Strasser that concluded that the layer of beachrock composing the Bimini Road formed beneath the surface of North Bimini Island and was only exposed by coastal erosion about 1,900 to 2,000 years ago.\n\nProponents of the Bimini Road being a manmade feature argue that these radiocarbon dates are invalid because they were obtained entirely from whole-rock samples and subject to contamination from younger carbon. The background data reported by Calvert and others concerning the radiocarbon dates from the Bimini Road demonstrate that not all of these dates come entirely from whole-rock samples. That the dates from the shells and the clearly younger cement holding them together as beachrock are temporally consistent argues against any signification alteration of their radiocarbon content. In addition, other studies using radiocarbon dating to study sea level and the age of sediment and beachrock within the Bahamas have not reported any significant problems with contamination by younger radiocarbon. In their detailed research, Davaud and Strasser accepted the radiocarbon dates obtained from the beachrock composing the Bimini Road from the radiocarbon laboratory at the University of Miami as valid indicators of its age.\n\nGifford and Ball attempted to establish a minimum age using uranium-thorium dating for the Bimini Road by dating a whole-rock sample of the marine limestone (biopelsparite) that underlies the beachrock that composes the Bimini Road. They described this sample as being \"Whole rock marine limestone under beachrock off Paradise Point, North Bimini; some recrystallisation.\" This sample yielded a uranium-thorium date of 14,992±258 BP (7132-19/2). Supporters of the idea that the Bimini Road is a man-made structure frequently cite this date in support of it being artificial.\n\nThe uranium-thorium date published by Gifford and Ball is regarded as an invalid and meaningless date for two reasons. First, the sample being partially recrystallised means that this limestone was not a closed system as required for a meaningful uranium-thorium date. As a result, this specific date is only an apparent date that completely lacks any scientific value for interpreting the age of marine limestone underlying the Bimini Road. Currently, specific species of corals and mollusks that can be demonstrated to lack any recrystallisation using petrographic and X-ray diffraction techniques are the preferred samples for dating. Any limestone sample that shows the least amount of recrystallisation is now regarded as incapable of yielding a scientifically valid date and not even worth an attempt at dating. Finally, it is well documented that about 15,000 calendar years ago, sea level in this region was between below present sea level. As a result, the location from where Gifford and Ball collected the sample of limestone was between (295 and 312 feet) above sea level at the time indicated by the uranium-thorium date of 14,992±258 BP (7132-19/2). Therefore, it is physically impossible for the marine limestone underlying the Bimini Road to have accumulated around 15,000 BP. Thus, this uranium-thorium date is a meaningless, invalid date lacking any scientific significance. Because this date clearly lacks any scientific meaning, geologists and archaeologists rarely mention it in their discussions of the Bimini Road. The marine limestone underlying the Bimini Road dates to the Sangamonian Stage, the last interglacial, when sea level was last high enough for the marine sediments, now lithified into limestone, to have accumulated.\n\nThe consensus among geologists and archaeologists is that the Bimini Road is a natural feature composed of beachrock that orthogonal and other joints have broken up into rectangular, subrectangular, polygonal, and irregular blocks. The geologists and anthropologists who have personally studied the Bimini Road include Eugene Shinn of the U.S. Geological Survey; Marshall McKusick. an Associate Professor of Anthropology at University of Iowa; W. Harrison of Environmental Research Associates, Virginia, Beach Virginia; Mahlon M. Ball and J. A. Gifford of the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, University of Miami; and Eric Davaud and A. Strasser of the Department of Geology and Paleontology, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. After either inspecting or studying the Bimini Road, they all concluded that it consists of naturally jointed beachrock. John A. Gifford, a professional geologist, spent a significant time studying the geology of the Bimini Islands for his University of Miami Master's thesis about the geology of the Bimini Islands. Calvert and others identified the samples that they dated from the Bimini Wall as being natural beachrock.\n\nDetailed studies by E. Davaud and A. Strasser of Holocene limestones currently exposed on North Bimini and Joulter Cays (Bahamas) reveal the sequence of events likely responsible for creating beachrock pavements like the Bimini Road. First, a complete beach sequence of shallow subtidal, intertidal, and supratidal carbonate sediments accumulated as the shoreline of North Bimini built seaward during part of the Holocene. Once the deposition of these sediments built the North Bimini's shoreline seaward, freshwater cementation of the carbonate occurred at some depth, possibly even a metre or so below sea level, beneath the island's surface. This cementation created a band consisting of a thick primary layer of semilithified sediments and thinner discontinuous lenses and layers of similar semilithified sediments beneath it. Later, when erosion of the island's shoreline occurred, the band of semilithifed sediment was exposed within the intertidal zone and the semilithified sediments were cemented into beachrock. As the sediments underlying the eroding shoreline was eroded down to Pleistocene limestone, the beachrock broke into flat-lying, tabular, and rectangular, subrectangular, polygonal, and irregular blocks as observed for modern beaches within the Bahamas by E. Davaud and A. Strasser. Thinner layers of beachrock underlying the primary bed of beachrock were also broken up as the loose sediments enclosing them and the thicker primary bed were eroded. As the loose sediment was scoured out from under the blocks and other pieces of beachrock by so-called \"scour and settling processes\", they dropped downward for several meters until they rested directly on the erosion-resistant Pleistocene limestone as an erosional lag. Eugene Shinn discusses a similar, but not identical, process by which the Bimini Road could have been created.\n\nThe downward movement of large, solid objects by scour and settling processes has been documented by Jesse E. McNinch, John T. Wells, and other researchers. They concluded that large, heavy objects could sink into the sea bottom by several meters without significant lateral movement as the result of scour and settling processes if an erosion-resistant layer of sediment was not encountered. In case of the beachrock blocks composing the Bimini Road and other pieces underlying it, the erosion-resistant layer that limited how far they were dropped downward by scour and settling processes is the Pleistocene limestone on which they now rest.\n\nFinally, pieces of thinner layers or lenses of beachrock underlying the primary bed that was broken up and dropped downward to create the Bimini Road would be trapped beneath the blocks as they also were broken up and dropped by erosion. The trapping of these fragments of beachrock beneath the blocks composing the Bimini Road, as erosion removed loose sediments and dropped them on the surface of the Pleistocene limestone, would have created the so-called \"prop\" and \"wedge\" rocks and blocks alleged to be a \"second course\" of \"masonry\". Presuming that the blocks of beachrock forming the Bimini Road originally formed at some unknown depth below sea level and have been dropped by erosion by several metres, dating the age of the Bimini Road by its relation to past sea level would be a useless technique that would produce misleading results.\n\nNatural pavements composed of stone blocks, which often are far more rectangular and consistent in size than the blocks composing the Bimini Road, created by orthogonal and other jointing within sedimentary rocks, including beachrock, are quite common and found throughout the world. They include a popular tourist attraction, the Tessellated pavement of Eaglehawk Neck, Tasmania; jointed bedrock that has been completely misidentified as a man-made \"Phoenician Fortress and Furnace\" in Oklahoma; a \"tiled pavement\" reported from Battlement Mesa in western Colorado; the tessellated pavement of the Bouddi Peninsula near Sydney, Australia; and Arches National Park in Utah. Natural beachrock pavements that are identical to the Bimini Road have been found eroding out of the east shore of Loggerhead Key of Dry Tortugas and submerged beneath of water at Pulley Ridge off the southwest coast of Florida.\n\nAlthough it is generally considered to be a naturally occurring geological feature, as a result of the unusual arrangement and shape of the stones some believe that the formation is the remains of an ancient road, wall, or some other deliberately constructed feature. For example, articles published in Argosy (an American pulp magazine) and either authored or coauthored by Robert F. Marx, a professional diver and visitor to the Bimini Road, argued that the Bimini Road is an artificial structure. In a 1971 Argosy article, Robert Marx reported that Carl H. Holm, who was President (not \"head geologist\" as reported by Marx) of Global Oceanic, once a manager for North American Rockwell, a ship designer; and retired naval officer, stated that there was \"little doubt\" that the massive stone blocks were cut by people. The same article noted that he was part of an expedition sponsored by North American Rockwell that included Edgar Mitchell, the astronaut, as leader; Dimitri Rebikoff; and \"a number of psychics from the Edgar Cayce Foundation.\"\n\nOthers who consider the Bimini undersea formation to be man-made, as opposed to natural beachrock, are Joseph Manson Valentine, zoologist; Charles Berlitz, linguist; Greg Little, psychologist; R. Cedric Leonard, anthropologist; and Dimitri Rebikoff, French marine engineer. All claim to have investigated the formations in person, and claim to have observed more than one horizontal layer of blocks, at least in places. However, multiple layers of block can result naturally from systematic fracturing of sedimentary rock where multiple layers of sedimentary rock lie on top of each, as can be observed in the case of the tessellated pavement of Tasmania exposed at Eaglehawk Neck on the Tasman Peninsula.\n\nIn his controversial book \"1421: The Year China Discovered America\" and its accompanying documentary, \"1421: The Year China Discovered America?\" amateur historian Gavin Menzies claimed that when Chinese admiral Zheng He's fleet was in the process of circumnavigating the globe in 1421-3, it stopped at Bimini - see 1421 hypothesis. According to Menzies, half of the fleet, under the command of admiral Zhou Wen, was caught in a hurricane near Bimini and built the Bimini Road from beach rock and the ships' ballast as a slipway to haul damaged junks ashore for refitting and repairs of damage caused by the hurricane.\n\nSci Fi's \"Quest for Atlantis: Startling New Secrets\" followed several different groups researching possible locations for the legendary Atlantis, one of which focused on the Bimini Road. Greg Little led a team of researchers on a dive to recover objects at Bimini Bay. Little and his team reported the discovery of an entire second layer of square-cut rocks with similar dimensions beneath the stones of the Bimini Road. However, they have yet to formally publish in any detail the evidence and observations that demonstrate the presence of this underlying layer and the square-cut nature of its blocks. As a result, its existence remains unproven. Little believes that his discovery suggests that the Bimini Road may actually be one part of an entire wall or water dock. He has also published an informal critique of Shinn's \"Skeptical Inquirer\" article. The Bimini Road was also discussed in season 1, episode 10 of the TV series \"In Search Of\", as well as season 4, episode 22 of the History channel's TV series \"Ancient Aliens\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3801953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3801953", "title": "Brandeis Medal", "text": "Brandeis Medal\n\nThe Brandeis Medal is awarded to individuals whose lives reflect United States Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis' commitment to the ideals of individual liberty, concern for the disadvantaged and public service.\n\nThe medal is awarded by the University of Louisville's Louis D. Brandeis Society, and is given in tribute to Brandeis, a former U.S. Supreme Court justice from Louisville and the namesake university's law school.\n\nPast recipients include U.S. Supreme Court justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Harry Blackmun, Sandra Day O'Connor, and John Paul Stevens; former U.S. attorney general Janet Reno; U.S. Sen. Christopher Dodd; Kentucky Supreme Court Chief Justice John Palmore; civil rights lawyer Morris Dees; lawyer and professor Samuel Dash; and Howard Baker.\n\n"}
{"id": "26157592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26157592", "title": "Buddhist Studies Review", "text": "Buddhist Studies Review\n\nBuddhist Studies Review is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Equinox on behalf of the UK Association for Buddhist Studies. It was founded in 1983 by Russell Webb and Sara Boin-Webb. The UK Association for Buddhist Studies was established in 1996 and took over publication of \"Buddhist Studies Review\" two years later. The journal publishes articles on any aspect of Buddhism. It covers the different cultural areas where Buddhism exists or has existed (in Central, East, South, and Southeast Asia), historical and contemporary aspects (including developments in \"Western\" Buddhism), theoretical, practical and methodological issues, textual, linguistic, archaeological and art-historical studies, and different disciplinary approaches to the subject (e.g. archaeology, art history, anthropology, Asian studies, comparative religion, law, oriental studies, philosophy, philology, psychology, religious studies, and theology).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "320188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320188", "title": "Cabaret Voltaire (Zurich)", "text": "Cabaret Voltaire (Zurich)\n\nCabaret Voltaire was the name of an artistic nightclub in Zürich, Switzerland. It was founded by Hugo Ball, with his companion Emmy Hennings, in the back room of Holländische Meierei, Spiegelgasse 1, on February 5, 1916, as a cabaret for artistic and political purposes. Other founding members were Marcel Janco, Richard Huelsenbeck, Tristan Tzara, and Sophie Taeuber-Arp and Jean Arp. Events at the cabaret proved pivotal in the founding of the anarchic art movement known as Dada.\nIt closed in the summer of 1916.\n\nSwitzerland was a neutral country during World War I and among the many refugees coming to Zürich were artists from all over Europe. Ball and Hennings approached Ephraim Jan, patron of the \"Holländische Meierei\" at Spiegelgasse 1, which had already hosted Zürich's first literary cabaret, the \"Pantagruel\" in 1915. Jan permitted them to use the back room for events. The press release on 2 February 1916 announcing the opening of the club reads:\nThe Cabaret Voltaire. Under this name a group of young artists and writers has formed with the object of becoming a center for artistic entertainment. In principle, the Cabaret will be run by artists, permanent guests, who, following their daily reunions, will give musical or literary performances. Young Zürich artists, of all tendencies, are invited to join us with suggestions and proposals.\n\nThe cabaret featured spoken word, dance and music. The soirees were often raucous events with artists experimenting with new forms of performance, such as sound poetry and simultaneous poetry. Mirroring the maelstrom of World War I raging around it, the art it exhibited was often chaotic and brutal. On at least one occasion, the audience attacked the cabaret's stage. Though the cabaret was to be the birthplace of the Dadaist movement, it featured artists from every sector of the avant-garde, including Futurism's Marinetti. The cabaret exhibited radically experimental artists, many of whom went on to change the face of their artistic disciplines; featured artists included Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Giorgio de Chirico, Sophie Taeuber-Arp, and Max Ernst.\n\nOn July 28, 1916, Ball read out the \"Dada Manifesto\". In June, Ball had also published a journal with the same name. It featured work from artists such as the poet Guillaume Apollinaire and had a cover designed by Arp.\n\nThe cabaret closed down in the summer of 1916.\n\nWhile the Dada movement was just beginning, by 1917 the excitement generated by the cabaret Voltaire had fizzled out and the artists moved on to other places in Zürich such as the Galerie Dada at Bahnhofstrasse 19, then later Paris and Berlin.\n\nIn recent years, the building which had housed Cabaret Voltaire in 1916 fell into disrepair, and in the winter of 2001/2002 a group of artists describing themselves as neo-Dadaists, organised by Mark Divo, illegally occupied the building to protest its planned closure. They declared that it was a signal for a new generation of artists to align themselves with a revival of Dada.\n\nOver a period of three months there were a number of performances, parties, poetry evenings and film nights. Among the participating artists were Ingo Giezendanner, Lennie Lee, Leumund Cult, Mickry3, xeno volcano, elektra sturmschnell, Aiana Calugar, and Dan Jones. The building was decorated on the outside as well as the inside. Thousands of people from around Zürich took part in the experiment. On April 2, 2002 police evicted the occupants.\n\nA new cabaret has since opened in the building, with an extensive programme of events such as, \"Hugo Ball: Fuga saeculi,\" in 2008, curated by Bazon Brock and included a performance of Gabriella Daris' corporeal poem \"LopLop: WORD or WOman biRD\" (an homage to Max Ernst's namesake collage from 1921) as well as a film projection by Werner Nekes\",\" and the Summer 2008 exhibition \"Dreamachine: David Woodard, Sheela Birnstiel, Christian Kracht.\"\n\nNowadays The Cabaret Voltaire adopts personalities and celebrates them as Dadaists such as Alexander Archipenko, Tatsuo Okada or Mikaijl Bakunin. They also sponsored the restoration of Bakunin's grave plate in the Bremgarten cemetery in Berne, adding a portrait by Swiss artist Daniel Garbade and Bakunin's quote: \"By striving to do the impossible, man has always achieved what is possible\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42978594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42978594", "title": "Child integration", "text": "Child integration\n\nChild integration is the inclusion of children in a variety of mature daily activities of families and communities. This contrasts with, for example, age segregation; separating children into age-defined activities and institutions (e.g., some models of organized schooling). Integrating children in the range of mature family and community activities gives equal value and responsibility to children as contributors and collaborators, and can be a way to help them learn. Children's integration provides a learning environment because children are able to observe and pitch in as they feel they can.\n\nIn the United States, child integration into \"adult\" life is not as common as it used to be. However, in other cultures social norms continue to incorporate children into the mature, productive activities of the family and community. In all cultures child integration is present in one way or another. For example, nearly all children's first language learning seems to be supported through integration with a mature linguistic community. Children usually are not taught in a classroom how to speak, but instead learn by observing the language and pitching it when they can.\n\nChildren in Indigenous communities participate in mature activities with the guidance from someone who has practice in that activity. When engaged in shared endeavors the guider and the learner both notice and assess how much understanding the learner has in the task and the guider provides support if it is needed.\n\nIndigenous cultures emphasize and instill values of being respectful, empathic and cooperative to their children. These values are practiced through tasks like co-sleeping and group play which helps bring about close connections within the family and community.\n\nThere are many different ways children can be integrated into society. One example, child care educators in certain Native communities, like the First Nations in Canada have taught children traditional language, where then the children have the responsibility to spread that language knowledge by teaching their parents and other family members, thus ingratiating them into society with responsibility to carry on the language legacy.\n\nThe Chippewa people have several different methods of teaching, such as lecturing and counseling, and integrating children into adult and community life. Overall, the children do the same tasks as their mothers and fathers just on a smaller scale. For example, a young girl might learn to make nets like her mother and uses the same knots her mother uses but makes smaller nets than her mother. Throughout the years she will slowly make bigger and bigger nets and perfect the skill that her mother and her mother's mother before her had. These skills may be learned by observation and sometimes if a specific person in the community is very skillful at something, the adults might recommend the child go find that person and learn from them.\n\nThe integration of children into community and family endeavors in Indigenous American Communities begins as early as infancy. Among the Mayan peoples of the Yucatan peninsula, children are allowed to roam freely allowing them ample opportunity to become acquainted with the mundane activities of the family. In the Mexican indigenous community of the Mazahua, children will coordinate their activities with those of their parents in a manner that allows them to cooperate in familial endeavors and may at times be granted a leading position in the endeavor. Children are considered to be valuable and responsible contributors of the community. The process of child integration into mature activities begins in infancy and continuous throughout time; between ages 3 and 4 the child will already be participating in some of the family's day to day activities, by ages 5 and 7 that child will already be cooperating in most of the endeavors that adults engage in and will have also earned several important responsibilities which can range from performing certain household tasks to providing childcare for younger siblings.\n\nThe cultural practice of integrating children in the mature activities of the family and community is common in many Indigenous American communities. Many integrate children into \"adult\" activities, work life, and other cultural practices at a very young age. Among the Quechua people of the Andes, families accept the child as a part of an integral process towards a collective wellbeing. Two-year-olds in the Chillihuani community frequently get their own food and drink, and those of herding families participate in herding and caring for the animals. In this community, work and play are not two separable things (i.e., one for adult and one for children). The children enjoy having real responsibilities and find pride in being able to contribute to their society.\n\nSimilarly, some Chippewa communities of Washington also commonly integrate children in the mature activities of the community. Children are expected to observe and work with their parent to be able to develop skills for that line of work. Young girls assist their mothers with beadwork, household chores, chopping wood, etc., and boys are expected to work on canoe-making with the men and are given arrows to learn hunting skills at 5 or 6 years old.\n\nDaily household activities provide the child the ability to learn cultural practices such as different food dishes, hygiene, and parenting skills, as well as the social values and religious beliefs. It is common for children in Indigenous American communities to learn through trial and error instead of explicit instruction. This is due to the cultural understanding of \"echando a perder se enesena la gente\" (throwing to lose, teaches people) which promotes optimism and growth of the child in the community, allowing the youth to feel comfortable making mistakes as long as they keep working towards their goal.\n\nChildren in the town of Tepoztlan are encouraged to participate in community activities. The people there believe that everyone can contribute something to community endeavors. Young children are encouraged to participate by being brought to various meetings and activities by their mothers, so as they grow older, they request to be admitted into the group on their own will.\n\nSome Indigenous American communities can incorporate young children into the political activities of the community. Political violence and displacement within the community of San Agustin Loxicha, Oaxaca created an important aspect of child participation in the community's struggle. In this community, it is common for young children to take part in marches or sit-ins, hunger strikes, school life, child play, and accept the political part of their lives instead of seeing it as a hardship or something to be pitied.\n\nIn the Nahua indigenous town of Tepoztlan located near Mexico City, children, adolescents, and older members of the community were involved in a 5-year long political movement against the construction of a golf course in their town. During assemblies children participated by aiding in the preparation of food and drinks for the crowd, while adolescents brought in groups of peers to further political involvement in the community. During marches and protest children and adolescents were active members of the civic movement. Any repression that the group suffered on behalf of the authorities was not seen as something negative in the experience of the youth, but was instead something that would further motivate their desire to be politically active. Through their integration into the political structure of the civil movement, the child's/adolescent's understanding of the issue expanded to such a degree that they would not only have physical presence in the group but would also be capable of offering new perspectives and potential solutions to the issue at hand. It is important to note that none of the children and adolescents involved were forced to do so. If a child showed an interest in the political movement they were encouraged by the adults to become participants but ultimately the choice was always left to them. Once a child decided to become involved the parents and other adults respected the pace and rhythm of that involvement.\n\nIn some immigrant communities, children link their family and friends to the environment around them by translating and paraphrasing words, phrases or occurring situations. This practice is known as language brokering and is used by children in immigrant communities to integrate themselves into family endeavors and into civil society. The child's contribution by language brokering integrates them into many environments, such as the doctor's office, at parent-teachers' conferences, banks, housing offices, and various sorts of negotiation activities. Subsequently, children who engage in language brokering are more likely to also be representatives of their community when transitioning into adulthood. Child integration has become very important to form linkages between new immigrant communities and the predominant culture and new forms of bureaucratic systems.\n\nWith the increased interaction in larger societies children in Indigenous Mayan communities who are bilingual help monolingual parents as interpreters. For example, the children will translate for parents when selling products in the barrios of Cancun, where the primary language is Spanish.\n\nIn some indigenous communities, children are often integrated as active participants into family and community work. Child work is often a vital contribution towards community productivity and typically involves non-exploitative motivations for children's engagement in work activities.\n\nIn some families, young children contribute to the family's finances by taking a job in a factory or a store under the supervision of a formal adult figure, while some join the family business under the oversight of their parents and older siblings. When children join the family business they tend to gain knowledge of a trade such as accounting, public relations and how to be able to time manage. Some children not only obtain an economic boost for the family as a whole, but also learn autonomy and altruism with regards to having their own earned income to support the family and also to spend for themselves.\n\nChildren in Indigenous American communities pitch in to community endeavors because they experience their contribution having a tangible effect on their community. The children often contribute without being told and children get to learn how to do the activity as they contribute. However, children aren't just born with this way of learning by observation; they have been given the opportunity by being encouraged to attend, observing, and participating in mature activities.\nIn indigenous communities, children's and adult's interests in participation must be viewed as equal, not just the adults forcing their views onto the children. Children are seen as a part of community just as much as adults. In many cultures, children are expected to take on tasks that are important to community. Children are also seen as integral members of the community, rather than separate from adults. Some cultures even give children control over specific goods, such as livestock or arable land and the expectations that come with this may also be seen as forms of participation. These ideas of children actively participating in their communities and influencing the society opens up opportunities for the participation of children \n\nSegregating children by age was not always the norm in the United States. A century and a half ago, children in the US had access to a wide range of adult activities and were integrated into multiple aspects of family functioning and survival. The change from this integration into segregation was a product of industrialization, Western formal schooling, child labor laws, social services agencies, and the rise of disciplines such as Psychology and Education. A combination of the above caused a shift from family working as a unit to separation of economic activities and services such as childcare emerged.\n"}
{"id": "3277499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3277499", "title": "Christmas controversies", "text": "Christmas controversies\n\nChristmas is a Christian celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ held annually on 25 December. Its celebration has come under both secular and religious attack since its earliest days.\n\nIn the 17th century, the Puritans had laws forbidding the celebration of Christmas, unlike the Catholic Church or the Anglican Church, the latter from which they separated. With the atheistic Cult of Reason in power during the era of Revolutionary France, Christian Christmas religious services were banned and the three kings cake was forcibly renamed the \"equality cake\" under anticlerical government policies. Later, in the 20th century, Christmas celebrations were prohibited under the doctrine of state atheism in the Soviet Union. In Nazi Germany, organized religion as a whole was attacked as an enemy of the state and Christmas celebrations corrupted so as to serve the Party's racist ideology.\n\nModern-day controversy, often associated with use of the term \"war on Christmas\", occurs mainly in countries such as the United States, Canada, and to a much lesser extent the United Kingdom. Some opponents have denounced the generic term \"Holidays\" and avoidance of using the term \"Christmas\" as being politically correct. This often involves objections to government or corporate efforts to acknowledge Christmas in a way that is multiculturally sensitive.\n\nSextus Julius Africanus, a historian of the second century, maintained that Jesus of Nazareth was conceived on March 25, which the Christian Church came to celebrate as the Feast of the Annunciation. With the term of a pregnancy being nine months, Sextus Julius Africanus held that Jesus was born on December 25, which the Western Christian Church established as Christmas. Recorded in Sextus Julius Africanus's \"Chronographiai\" (221 AD), this thesis is corroborated by an interpretation of Gospel of Luke that places the appearance of Gabriel to Zechariah on the observance of Yom Kippur that occurs around October, as \"the worshipers were praying outside of the Temple and not within\" for \"only the priest could enter the Temple at this time to conduct the proper rituals\"; because Jesus was six months younger than his cousin John the Baptist, Jesus was conceived in March and born in late December. \n\nIn 274 AD, Emperor Aurelian made a festival for Sol Invictus (\"The Unconquered Sun\"), originally a Syrian deity who was later adopted as the chief deity of the Roman Empire. While some writers believe that this may have influenced the Christian feast of Christmas, other historians such as Louis Duchesne, and Thomas Talley maintain that the Christian feast of Christmas was already being celebrated and that Aurelian established \"Dies Natalis Solis Invicti\" in order to compete with the Christian feast of Christmas.\n\nThe Christian Council of Tours of 567 established Advent as the season of preparation for Christmas, as well as the season of Christmastide, declaring \"the twelve days between Christmas and Epiphany to be one unified festal cycle\", thus giving significance to both December 25 and January 6, a solution that would \"coordinate the solar Julian calendar with the lunar calendars of its provinces in the east\".\n\nIn Christian belief, the teaching that God came into the world in the form of man to atone for the sins of humanity, rather than the exact birth date, is considered to be the primary purpose in celebrating Christmas; the exact date of the birth of Jesus of Nazareth is considered a non-issue.\n\nDuring the winter, the burning of logs was a common practice among many cultures across Northern Europe. In Scandinavia, this was known as the yule log and originally had a pagan significance; after the Christianization of Scandinavia, it may have been incorporated into the Christian celebration of Christmas there, with the pagan significance no longer remaining. However, as there are no existing references to a Christmas log prior to the 16th century, the burning of the Christmas block may have been an early modern invention by Christians unrelated to the pagan practice.\n\nMany other Advent and Christmastide customs developed within the context of Christianity, such as the lighting of the Advent wreath (invented by Lutherans in the 16th century Germany), the marking of an Advent calendar (first used by Lutherans in the 19th century), the lighting of a Christingle (invented by Moravians in 19th century Britain), and the viewing of a Nativity play (first enacted by Catholic monks in 11th century Italy).\n\nPrior to the Victorian era, Christmas in the United States was primarily a religious holiday observed by Christians of the Roman Catholic, Episcopalian, and Lutheran denominations. Its importance was often considered secondary to that of Epiphany and Easter.\n\nThe Puritans, on the other hand, objected to the Christian feast of Christmas, during the English Interregnum, when England was ruled by a Puritan Parliament. Puritans sought to remove elements they viewed as unbiblical, from their practice of Christianity, including those feasts established by the Anglican Church. In 1647, the Puritan-led English Parliament banned the celebration of Christmas, replacing it with a day of fasting and considering it \"a popish festival with no biblical justification\", and a time of wasteful and immoral behavior. Protests followed as pro-Christmas rioting broke out in several cities and for weeks Canterbury was controlled by the rioters, who decorated doorways with holly and shouted royalist slogans. The book \"The Vindication of Christmas\" (London, 1652) argued against the Puritans, and makes note of Old English Christmas traditions, dinner, roast apples on the fire, card playing, dances with \"plow-boys\" and \"maidservants\", old Father Christmas and carol singing. The Restoration of King Charles II in 1660 ended the ban. \"Poor Robin's Almanack\" contained the lines: \"Now thanks to God for Charles return, / Whose absence made old Christmas mourn. / For then we scarcely did it know, / Whether it Christmas were or no.\" Many clergymen still disapproved of Christmas celebration. In Scotland, the Presbyterian Church of Scotland also discouraged observance of Christmas. James VI commanded its celebration in 1618, but attendance at church was scant.\n\nIn Colonial America, the Pilgrims of New England disapproved of Christmas. The Plymouth Pilgrims put their loathing for the day into practice in 1620 when they spent their first Christmas Day in the New World building their first structure in the New World – thus demonstrating their complete contempt for the day. Non-Puritans in New England deplored the loss of the holidays enjoyed by the laboring classes in England. Christmas observance was outlawed in Boston in 1659. The ban by the Puritans was revoked in 1681 by an English appointed governor, Edmund Andros, however it was not until the mid-19th century that celebrating Christmas became fashionable in the Boston region. By the Declaration of Independence in 1776, it was not widely celebrated in the US.\n\nWith the appearance of the Oxford Movement in the Anglican Church, a revival in the traditional rituals and religious observances associated with Christmastide occurred. This ushered in \"the development of richer and more symbolic forms of worship, the building of neo-Gothic churches, and the revival and increasing centrality of the keeping of Christmas itself as a Christian festival\" as well as \"special charities for the poor\" in addition to \"special services and musical events\". Historian Ronald Hutton believes that the current state of observance of Christmas is largely the result of a mid-Victorian revival of the holiday, spearheaded by Charles Dickens, who \"linked worship and feasting, within a context of social reconciliation\". Dickens was not the first author to celebrate Christmastide in literature, but it was he who superimposed his humanitarian vision of the holiday upon the public, an idea that has been termed as Dickens' \"Carol Philosophy\". \nHistorian Stephen Nissenbaum contends that the modern celebration in the United States was developed in New York State from defunct and imagined Dutch and English traditions in order to refocus the holiday from one where groups of young men went from house to house demanding alcohol and food into one centered on the happiness of children. He notes that there was a deliberate effort to prevent children from becoming greedy in response. Christmas was not proclaimed a holiday by the United States Congress until 1870.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Christian writers such as C. S. Lewis noted what he saw as a distinct split between the religious and commercialized observance of Christmas, the latter of which he deplored. In \"Xmas and Christmas: A Lost Chapter from Herodotus\", Lewis gives a satire of the observance of two simultaneous holidays in \"Niatirb\" (\"Britain\" spelled backwards) from the supposed view of the ancient Greek historian Herodotus (484–425 BC). One of the holidays, \"Exmas\", is observed by a flurry of compulsory commercial activity and expensive indulgence in alcoholic beverages. The other, \"Crissmas\", is observed in Niatirb's temples. Lewis's narrator asks a priest why they kept Crissmas on the same day as Exmas. He receives the reply:\nThe Soviet Union (until 1936), and certain other Communist regimes, banned overtly religious Christmas observances in accordance with the Marxist-Leninist doctrine of state atheism. In 1920s USSR, the League of Militant Atheists encouraged school pupils to campaign against Christmas traditions, such as the Christmas tree, and encouraged them to spit on crucifixes as protest against this holiday; the League established an antireligious holiday to be the 31st of each month as a replacement. \n\nMost customs traditionally associated with Christmas, such as decorated trees, presents, and Ded Moroz (Father Frost), were later reinstated in Soviet society, but tied to New Year's Day instead; this tradition remains as of the present day. It should, however, be noted that most Russian Christians are of the Orthodox community, whose religious festivals (Christmas, Easter etc.) do not necessarily coincide precisely with those of the main western Christian churches (Catholic or Protestant), because of continued connection of the church calendar to the Julian calendar.\n\nLikewise, in Nazi Germany, \"because Nazi ideologues saw organized religion as an enemy of the totalitarian state, propagandists sought to deemphasize—or eliminate altogether—the Christian aspects of the holiday\" and as a result \"propagandists tirelessly promoted numerous Nazified Christmas songs, which replaced Christian themes with the regime's racial ideologies.\"\n\nThe expression \"the War on Christmas\" has been used in the media to denote Christmas-related controversies. The term gained notability due in part to its use by conservative commentators such as Peter Brimelow and Bill O'Reilly beginning in the early 2000s.\n\nThe claim of Brimelow, O'Reilly and others was that any specific mention of the term \"Christmas\" or its religious aspects was being increasingly censored, avoided, or discouraged by a number of advertisers, retailers, government (prominently schools), and other public and secular organizations. In the United States and Canada, where the use of the term \"Holidays\" is most prevalent, opponents have denounced its usage and avoidance of using the term \"Christmas\" as being politically correct.\n\nJeff Schweitzer, a commentator for \"The Huffington Post\", addressed the position of commentators such as O'Reilly, stating that \"There is no war on Christmas; the idea is absurd at every level. Those who object to being forced to celebrate another's religion are drowning in Christmas in a sea of Christianity dominating all aspects of social life. An 80 percent majority can claim victimhood only with an extraordinary flight from reality.\"\n\nHeather Long, an American columnist for \"The Guardian\", addressed the \"politically correct\" question in America over use of the term \"holidays\", writing, \"people who are clearly celebrating Christmas in their homes tend to be conflicted about what to say in the workplace or at school. No one wants to offend anyone or make assumptions about people's religious beliefs, especially at work.\"\n\nChristmas Day is recognized as an official federal holiday by the United States government. The American Civil Liberties Union argues that government-funded displays of Christmas imagery and traditions violate the U.S. Constitution—specifically the First Amendment, which prohibits the establishment by Congress of a national religion; on the other hand the Alliance Defending Freedom, an organization promoting the principle of religious freedom, believes that Christmas displays are consistent with the First Amendment, as well as court rulings that have repeatedly upheld accommodationism. The debate over whether religious displays should be placed within public schools, courthouses, and other government buildings has been heated in recent years.\n\nIn some cases, popular aspects of Christmas, such as Christmas trees, lights, and decorating are still prominently showcased, but are associated with unspecified \"holidays\" rather than with Christmas. The controversy also includes objections to policies that prohibit government or schools from forcing unwilling participants to take part in Christmas ceremonies. In other cases, the Christmas tree, as well as Nativity scenes, have not been permitted to be displayed in public settings altogether. Also, several US chain retailers, such as Walmart, Macy's, and Sears, have experimented with greeting their customers with \"Happy Holidays\" or \"Season's Greetings\" rather than with \"Merry Christmas\".\n\nSupreme Court rulings, starting with \"Lynch v. Donnelly\" in 1984, have permitted religious themes in government-funded Christmas displays that had \"legitimate secular purposes\". Since these rulings have been splintered and have left governments uncertain of their limits, many such displays have included secular elements such as reindeer, snowmen and elves along with the religious elements. Other recent court cases have brought up additional issues such as the inclusion of Christmas carols in public school performances, but none of these cases have reached the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nA controversy regarding these issues arose in 2002, when the New York City public school system banned the display of Nativity scenes but allowed the display of less overtly religious symbols such as Christmas trees, Hanukkah menorahs, and the Muslim star and crescent. The school system successfully defended its policy in \"Skoros v. City of New York\" (2006).\n\nSince at least 2005, religious conservative groups and media in the United States, such as the American Family Association (AFA) and Liberty Counsel, have called for boycotts of various prominent secular organizations, particularly retail giants, demanding that they use the term \"Christmas\" rather, than solely \"holiday\" in their print, TV, online, and in-store marketing and advertising. This was also seen by some as containing a hidden anti-Jewish message. All of the major retailers named denied the charges.\n\n\n\nIn 2007, a controversy arose when a public school in Ottawa, Ontario, planned to have the children in its primary choir sing a version of the song \"Silver Bells\" with the word \"Christmas\" replaced by \"festive\"; the concert also included the songs \"Candles of Christmas\" and \"It's Christmas\" with the original lyrics. In 2011, in Embrun, Ontario, near Ottawa, some parents were displeased when a school replaced the Christmas concert it had held in previous years with a craft sale and winter concert scheduled for February.\n\nIn the United Kingdom there have been some controversies, one of the most famous being the temporary promotion of the phrase Winterval for a whole season of events (including Christmas festivities) by Birmingham City Council in the late 1990s. This remains a controversial example of \"Christmas controversy\", with critics attacking the use of the word \"Winterval\" as being \"political correctness gone mad\", accusing council officials of trying to take the Christ out of Christmas. The council responded to the criticism by stating that Christmas-related words and symbols were prominent in its publicity material: \"\"...there was a banner saying Merry Christmas across the front of the council house, Christmas lights, Christmas trees in the main civil squares, regular carol-singing sessions by school choirs, and the Lord Mayor sent a Christmas card with a traditional Christmas scene wishing everyone a Merry Christmas\"...\"\n\nIn November 2009 the city council of Dundee was accused of banning Christmas because it promoted its celebrations as the Winter Night Light festival, initially with no specific references to Christianity. Local church leaders were invited to participate in the event, and they did.\n\nDue to the changing religious landscape of the UK, Christmas cards featuring religious imagery, such as the Nativity scene or the Virgin and Child, have become less common in major retailers. However, they are still readily available from smaller shops, or those linked to church groups and charities. The Church of England complained in 2004 when religious images were removed from the annual tradition of special postage stamps around Christmas.\n\nThe Christian holidays of Christmas Day and Good Friday remained in secular post-apartheid South Africa's calendar of public holidays. The Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission), a chapter nine institution established in 2004, held countrywide consultative public hearings in June and July 2012 to assess the need for a review of public holidays following the receipt of complaints from minority groups about unfair discrimination. The CRL Rights Commission stated that they would submit their recommendations to the Department of Home Affairs, the Department of Labour, various Portfolio Committees and the Office of the Presidency by October 2012. The CRL Rights Commission published its recommendations on 17 April 2013, including the scrapping of some existing public holidays to free up days for some non-Christian religious public holidays.\n\nThe common practice of schoolchildren visiting local churches for Christmas services in December is opposed by the Norwegian Humanist Association, the Children's Ombudsman and by the Union of Education. There have been several local controversies over the issue. The political parties have mostly been in favor of this being decided by the schools themselves, but the government has underlined that schools who participate in Christmas services must offer an alternative for pupils who don’t want to attend and that services must not take place on the day that marks the closing of schools before the Christmas holiday. The Solberg's Cabinet says in its government declaration that it looks positively upon schools taking part in services in churches before religious holidays.\n\nAccording to a 2013 poll by Norstat for \"Vårt Land\", 68% of Norwegians support having school-arranged Christmas servicess while 14% are opposed. 17% do not hold any opinion on the issue.\n\nA school law in 2011, which explicitly stated that public schools should be non-confessional, led to debate over what this meant for the tradition that schools gather in churches in December to celebrate Advent, Lucia or Christmas. 80,000 Swedes signed a 2012 protest letter (\"Adventsuppropet\") initiated by the newspaper \"Dagen\" to Minister for Education Jan Björklund, in which they demanded that school visits to churches should still be allowed to include religious rituals. The minister clarified that church visits before Christmas might include singing of Christmas hymns and a priest talking about the Christmas gospel while on the other side common prayers and reading a Confession of Faith would violate the law.\n\nIn 2012, Sveriges Radio reported that about one in six schools had changed the way they mark Christmas traditions as a result of the new law.\n\nSince the 1980s, there have been several instances in both the United States and Canada when official public mentions and references to Christmas trees were renamed to \"holiday trees\". Reaction to such renamings has been mixed.\n\nOne of the most prominent Christmas tree controversies came in 2005, when the city of Boston labeled their official decorated tree as a holiday tree, and the subsequent response from the Nova Scotian tree farmer who donated the tree was that he would rather have put the tree in a wood chipper than have it named a \"holiday\" tree.\n\nIn 2009 in West Jerusalem, the Lobby for Jewish Values, with support of the Jerusalem Rabbinate, handed out fliers condemning Christmas and called for a boycott of \"restaurants and hotels that sell or put up Christmas trees and other 'foolish' Christian symbols\".\n\nThe Brussels Christmas tree in the Belgian capital sparked controversy in December 2012, as it was part of renaming the Christmas Market as \"Winter Pleasures\". Local opposition saw it as appeasement of the Muslim minority in the city.\n\nEfforts have also been made to rename official public holiday trees back to Christmas trees. In 2002, a bill was introduced in the California Senate to rename the State Holiday Tree the California State Christmas Tree; while this measure did not pass, at the official lighting of the tree on 4 December 2007, California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger referred to the tree as a Christmas tree in his remarks and in the press release his office issued after the ceremony. Schwarzenegger had previously ended the secular practice of calling it a \"holiday tree\" in 2004 during the 73rd annual lighting. The name change was in honor of the late Senator William \"Pete\" Knight. Schwarzenegger said at Knight's funeral that he would change the name back to Christmas tree. Knight had lobbied unsuccessfully to change the name after Governor Davis decided to call it a holiday tree.\n\nThe Michigan Senate had a debate in 2005 over whether the decorated tree in front of the Michigan Capitol would continue to be called a holiday tree (as it had been since the early 1990s) or named a Christmas tree. The question was revisited in 2006, when the bipartisan Michigan Capitol Committee voted unanimously to use the term Christmas tree. And in 2007, Wisconsin lawmakers considered whether to rename the tree in the Wisconsin Capitol rotunda, a holiday tree since 1985, the Wisconsin State Christmas Tree.\n\nUnder the state atheism of the former Eastern Bloc, Christmas was banned, along with other Christian holidays. The League of Militant Atheists organized alternate festivals \"specifically to denigrate religious holidays\" in the USSR. In the United States, some atheists may choose to celebrate Christmas fully, while others celebrate only portions of the holiday, and others reject it completely. Some atheist groups who oppose the celebration of Christmas have established alternate celebrations to the Christian observance of Christmas, such as HumanLight.\n\nThe celebration of Christmas has occasionally been criticized in countries which are predominantly Muslim. Turkey has adopted a secular version of Christmas and a Santa Claus figure named \"Noel Baba\" (from the French Père Noël). During the 2013 holiday season, a Muslim youth group launched an anti-Santa Claus campaign, protesting against the celebration of Christmas in the country. In December 2015, political and religious activists organized protests against the growing influence of Christmas and Santa Claus in Turkish society.\n\nSome Churches, sects, and communities of the Restoration Movement reject the observance of Christmas for theological reasons; these include Jehovah's Witnesses,; Armstrongites,<ref>\n"}
{"id": "53653327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53653327", "title": "Conservation and restoration of performance art", "text": "Conservation and restoration of performance art\n\nThe conservation and restoration of performance art is the process of documenting, collecting, and prolonging the life of Performance Art. Performance Art often features a live presentation initially documented by an artist, cultural institution, or host location. This genre of art can take place in a wide range of mediums, and is usually based on four core elements: Time, Space, the Performer's body, and the relationship between viewers and performer. These variables determine how it can be collected and conserved within museums or cultural institutions.\n\nPerformance art activity is not confined to European or American art traditions; notable practitioners can be found in Asia and Latin America. Performance artists and theorists point to different traditions and histories, ranging from tribal to sporting and ritual or religious events. Twentieth century performance art originated from early avant-garde genres such as Futurism, Dada and Surrealism. The choreographed movements combined elements of traditional theater performances and styles of political rallies. The origins of the post-war performance art movement can be credited to composer John Cage and dancer Merce Cunningham at North Carolina's Black Mountain College. Cage's teaching in New York shaped the work of artists such as George Brecht, Yoko Ono, and Allan Kaprow, who formed part of the impetus behind the Fluxus movement and the creation of \"happenings,\" which were then preceded by Abstract expressionism and Action painting. Since the 1960s the List of performance artists has continued to increase, and the styles of the genre are never confined.\n\nIn experiencing painting, film, literature, theatre, dance, music, and other arts, is it useful to consider the artist’s intent, including evidence from previous work, external statements, and historical and personal contexts.\nArt and nature, non-aesthetic intent, the artist's testimony, historical context, situational approaches, intent for audiences, and textual intent are factors that take part in what or how the artist allows their work to be represented. The Artist's statement is another form in determining the conditions of their performance. These preferences include how the work can be documented, collected, and preserved.\n\nPerformance art is often undefined in its boundaries, so this may raise concern for where and how it is exhibited. Additional concerns are raised in participatory performances. There are several Codes of Ethics for professionals working in conservation and preservation-related fields. The main conservation Code of Ethics is the American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works (AIC) Code of Ethics and Guidelines for Practice. However, many of the professional organizations have their own codes, such as the Society of American Archivists Core Values Statement and Code of Ethics.\n\nPerformance art contains a history of disregarding a standard definition or description, which presents a series of questions and discussions to qualify its conservation. Conserving and preserving Performance art was originally questioned if it was possible and for what reasons should it be collected. A broad discussion of what context the live works could be preserved has been presented by David Smith of Asia Art Archive and Athena Christa Holbrook from Museum of Modern Art. They discuss the legitimacy of how a performance can be conserved and the resulting value of the work after by the artist, collection, and for the public.\n\nWith input from artists, art educators and historians, conservators, and curators, a wider perspective is being generated for cultural institutions to develop new techniques in conserving and restoring live, time based works through workshops like The International Symposium \"Collecting and Conserving Performance Art\", held in Wolfsburg,Germany.\nCultural institutions like Museum of Modern Art and Tate Modern have continued to develop conservation techniques on media-specific preservation needs, like securing equipment, updating exhibition-mode technology, and developing ways to re-create duration-based presentations. Their lists and policies establish a consistent method of collecting and preserving Performance Art by examining the license to \"re-perform\" the work, existing practices used to bring live works into a collection, and looking at past participants and producers.\n\nThe artists/creators of the performance are the original source for the intentions for conserving the work. The artist's intent can determine how or to what degree the live work can be preserved. Popular performance artist Marina Abramović has spent much of her career recreating new versions of past performances by either replicating the physical actions or by selecting a reoccurring location, theme, or medium. She has also spent time as an educator in Performance Art so that her similar methods and styles are repeated. Marina has used several resources in copyrighting her work to ensure it's authenticity and the work can be preserved in its current state. \nPerformance scripts have also been used to preserve a live performance. With these written instructions or steps, the original live work can be re-performed or accurately represented keeping the artist's intentions true to the original work. Although curators and art critics have questioned if these scripts are sufficient materials for preserving and collecting the work; this method can be argued with similar conservation methods used in theater and performing arts.\n\nPerformance art that includes video, film, slide, audio, or computer technologies often falls under the conservation and restoration of time-based media art because they have duration as a dimension and unfold to the viewer over time. Collecting, preserving, and exhibiting these performances raises complex technical and ethical challenges to conservators. Reside from Performance art fall under two main categories for either physical objects, and digital objects or New media associated with the work. While performances can have either category or combination to document the performance, exhibit, and preserve the existence or transformation of the work; the digital component has become the dominant method of prolonging the existence of the performance. \nSome strategies of overcoming the challenges of collecting live work are addressed in Marta Rodriguez's analysis.\n\nPerformance Art can take the form of several mediums with the possibility for combination such as but not limited to:\n\n\nThese mediums can be the result of documentation for the performance or be directly involved in the art itself. The mediums often determine how the work is collected, conserved, and restored.\n\nPhysical props, tools, clothing, etc. remaining or created as a result of the performance can be a common representation to document and preserve the Performance. Collections care guides and policies manage best practices for prolonging the life of the work.\n\nMany works are sensitive to environmental conditions such as temperature, humidity and exposure to visible light and ultraviolet radiation. These works must be protected in controlled environments where such variables are maintained within a range of damage-limiting levels.\nOther causes of deterioration include:\n\nCollections care is an essential element of museum policy. It is a \"responsibility of members of the museum profession to create and maintain a protective environment for the collections in their care, whether in store, on display, or in transit. Cultural institutions should carefully monitor the condition of collections to determine when an artifact requires conservation work and the services of a qualified conservator.\"\n\nDigital mediums can be used for documentation or be a result of a performance such as digital photography, video, and audio files. Conservation and restoration of new media art can establish best practices for individuals, artists, and cultural institutions to prolong the life of the work.\n\nWorks of new media art such as film, tapes, web browsers, software operating systems eventually become obsolete, and New Media art faces serious issues around the challenge to preserve artwork beyond the time of its contemporary production. The digital archiving of media (see the Rhizome ArtBase, and the Internet Archive), and the use of emulators to prolong the life of work that depend on obsolete software or operating systems.\n\nInstability and change are inherent to these artworks, since artist-selected equipment and technologies fail and become obsolete. Many time-based media artworks are ephemeral by nature; rather than being composed of a unique original, they exist only when they are installed, so every iteration can be considered a different representation of the artwork. To preserve the fragile identity of time-based media artworks, conservators must proactively manage the degree of change that may be introduced to each.\n\nThe Variable Media Questionnaire (VMS) has developed into a significant tool in relation to digital preservation.\n\nPhysical media-equipment, such as DVD players or computers, used in multi-media or digital artworks has proven a short-term strategy, as hardware can quickly become obsolete or outdated. Storage is also notoriously bad at capturing the contextual and live aspects of works such as Internet art, performance art and live electronic music.\n\nFor the residue and documentation of performance art, new media preservationists work to integrate new preservation strategies with existing documentation techniques and metadata standards. This effort is made in order to remain compatible with previous frameworks and models on how to archive, store and maintain variable media objects in a standardized repository utilizing a systematized vocabulary, such as the Open Archival Information System model.\n\nThe practice of Digital preservation and Web archiving offers special challenges and opportunities. Where scientific data and legal records may be easily migrated from one platform to another without losing their essential function, artworks are often sensitive to the look and feel of the media in which they are embedded. On the other hand, artists who are invited to help imagine a long-term plan for their work often respond with creative solutions. Emulation and Reinterpretation are additional approaches for prolonging the life of digital objects and documentation.\n\nFor physical objects and props relating to a performance piece, conservators must follow proper pest management standards. Integrated Pest Management policies are created to reduce or limit any problems relating to pests damaging objects within collections. Policies and checklists specific to museum integrated pest management, for example from the National Park Service and Smithsonian Institution, discuss best practices, to include restricting food and sugary drink consumption in exhibition and storage areas and surrounding areas along with maintaining cleanliness in exhibition and storage areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "39643226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39643226", "title": "Flat grave", "text": "Flat grave\n\nA flat grave is a burial in a simple oval or rectangular pit. The pit is filled with earth, but the grave is not marked above the surface by any means such as a tumulus or upstanding earthwork. Both intact human bodies (skeletal grave) and cremated remains (urn grave) were buried in the graves.\n\nThis simple method of burial was used often by prehistoric peoples. It was used during the Funnelbeaker culture and Corded Ware culture. It was characteristic of the Urnfield culture which stored cremated remains in urns and buried them in flat graves.\n\nBurial customs did not always follow a pattern of continuously increasing sophistication in history. During the early La Tène culture the deceased were optionally cremated and then interred in tumulus tombs, but this changed during the later period. At that time tumulus tombs became rare and the interment of cremated remains in flat graves was the dominant method of burial again.\n"}
{"id": "6010986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6010986", "title": "Ganj Par", "text": "Ganj Par\n\nGanj Par () is a Lower Paleolithic site located in the Gilan province in northern Iran.\n\nLocated on an old western terrace of the Sefīd-Rūd River, the site was discovered by a team of archaeologists from the Center for Paleolithic Research of the National Museum of Iran in 2002.\nThe Lower Paleolithic cave site of Darband Cave is located at east of Ganj Par.\n\nAbout 150 stone artifacts —handaxes, cleavers, a pick, choppers, and smaller flake tools — made of limestone, igneous rocks, and sandstone have been found at the site. There are some similarities between this Acheulian stone tools with those found in Caucasus region. Discovery of Ganj Par thus indicates that Iran is part of the Acheulian territory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46313", "title": "Globalization", "text": "Globalization\n\nGlobalization or globalisation is the process of interaction and integration between people, companies, and governments worldwide. Globalization has grown due to advances in transportation and communication technology. With increased global interactions comes the growth of international trade, ideas, and culture. Globalization is primarily an economic process of interaction and integration that's associated with social and cultural aspects. However, conflicts and diplomacy are also large parts of the history of globalization, and modern globalization.\n\nEconomically, globalization involves goods and services, and the economic resources of capital, technology, and data. ALso, with the expansions of global markets liberalize the economic\nactivities of exchange of goods and funds. Removal of Cross-Border Trades barriers has made formation of\nGlobal Markets more feasible. \"Globalization and its Impacts on the World Economic Development\". The steam locomotive, steamship, jet engine, and container ships are some of the advances in the means of transport while the rise of the telegraph and its modern offspring, the Internet and mobile phones show development in telecommunications infrastructure. All of these improvements have been major factors in globalization and have generated further interdependence of economic and cultural activities around the globe.\n\nThough many scholars place the origins of globalization in modern times, others trace its history long before the European Age of Discovery and voyages to the New World, some even to the third millennium BC. Large-scale globalization began in the 1820s. In the late 19th century and early 20th century, the connectivity of the world's economies and cultures grew very quickly. The term \"globalization\" is recent, only establishing its current meaning in the 1970s.\n\nIn 2000, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) identified four basic aspects of globalization: trade and transactions, capital and investment movements, migration and movement of people, and the dissemination of knowledge. Further, environmental challenges such as global warming, cross-boundary water, air pollution, and over-fishing of the ocean are linked with globalization. Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work organization, economics, socio-cultural resources, and the natural environment. Academic literature commonly subdivides globalization into three major areas: economic globalization, cultural globalization, and political globalization.\nThe term \"globalization\" derives from the word \"globalize\", which refers to the emergence of an international network of economic systems. One of the earliest known usages of the term as a noun was in a 1930 publication entitled \"Towards New Education\", where it denoted a holistic view of human experience in education. The term 'globalization' had been used in its economic sense at least as early as 1981, and in other senses since at least as early as 1944. Theodore Levitt is credited with popularizing the term and bringing it into the mainstream business audience in the later half of the 1980s. Since its inception, the concept of globalization has inspired competing definitions and interpretations. Its antecedents date back to the great movements of trade and empire across Asia and the Indian Ocean from the 15th century onward.\nDue to the complexity of the concept, various research projects, articles, and discussions often stay focused on a single aspect of globalization.\n\nSociologists Martin Albrow and Elizabeth King define globalization as \"all those processes by which the people of the world are incorporated into a single world society.\" In \"The Consequences of Modernity\", Anthony Giddens writes: \"Globalization can thus be defined as the intensification of worldwide social relations which link distant localities in such a way that local happenings are shaped by events occurring many miles away and vice versa.\" In 1992, Roland Robertson, professor of sociology at the University of Aberdeen and an early writer in the field, described globalization as \"the compression of the world and the intensification of the consciousness of the world as a whole.\"\n\nIn \"Global Transformations\", David Held and his co-writers state:\nHeld and his co-writers' definition of globalization in that same book as \"transformation in the spatial organization of social relations and transactions—assessed in terms of their extensity, intensity, velocity and impact—generating transcontinental or inter-regional flows\" was called \"probably the most widely-cited definition\" in the 2014 DHL Global Connectiveness Index.\n\nSwedish journalist Thomas Larsson, in his book \"The Race to the Top: The Real Story of Globalization\", states that globalization:\nPaul James defines globalization with a more direct and historically contextualized emphasis:\n\nGlobalization is the extension of social relations across world-space, defining that world-space in terms of the historically variable ways that it has been practiced and socially understood through changing world-time.\n\nManfred Steger, professor of global studies and research leader in the Global Cities Institute at RMIT University, identifies four main empirical dimensions of globalization: economic, political, cultural, and ecological. A fifth dimension—the ideological—cutting across the other four. The ideological dimension, according to Steger, is filled with a range of norms, claims, beliefs, and narratives about the phenomenon itself.\n\nJames and Steger stated that the concept of globalization \"emerged from the intersection of four interrelated sets of 'communities of practice' (Wenger, 1998): academics, journalists, publishers/editors, and librarians.\" They note the term was used \"in education to describe the global life of the mind\"; in international relations to describe the extension of the European Common Market; and in journalism to describe how the \"American Negro and his problem are taking on a global significance\". They have also argued that four different forms of globalization can be distinguished that complement and cut across the solely empirical dimensions. According to James, the oldest dominant form of globalization is embodied globalization, the movement of people. A second form is agency-extended globalization, the circulation of agents of different institutions, organizations, and polities, including imperial agents. Object-extended globalization, a third form, is the movement of commodities and other objects of exchange. He calls the transmission of ideas, images, knowledge, and information across world-space disembodied globalization, maintaining that it is currently the dominant form of globalization. James holds that this series of distinctions allows for an understanding of how, today, the most embodied forms of globalization such as the movement of refugees and migrants are increasingly restricted, while the most disembodied forms such as the circulation of financial instruments and codes are the most deregulated.\n\nThe journalist Thomas L. Friedman popularized the term \"flat world\", arguing that globalized trade, outsourcing, supply-chaining, and political forces had permanently changed the world, for better and worse. He asserted that the pace of globalization was quickening and that its impact on business organization and practice would continue to grow.\n\nEconomist Takis Fotopoulos defined \"economic globalization\" as the opening and deregulation of commodity, capital, and labor markets that led toward present neoliberal globalization. He used \"political globalization\" to refer to the emergence of a transnational élite and a phasing out of the nation-state. Meanwhile, he used \"cultural globalization\" to reference the worldwide homogenization of culture. Other of his usages included \"ideological globalization\", \"technological globalization\", and \"social globalization\".\n\nLechner and Boli (2012) define globalization as more people across large distances becoming connected in more and different ways.\n\n\"Globophobia\" is used to refer to the fear of globalization, though it can also mean the fear of balloons.\n\nThere are both distal and proximate causes which can be traced in the historical factors affecting globalization. Large-scale globalization began in the 19th century.\n\nArchaic globalization conventionally refers to a phase in the history of globalization including globalizing events and developments from the time of the earliest civilizations until roughly the 1600s. This term is used to describe the relationships between communities and states and how they were created by the geographical spread of ideas and social norms at both local and regional levels.\n\nIn this schema, three main prerequisites are posited for globalization to occur. The first is the idea of Eastern Origins, which shows how Western states have adapted and implemented learned principles from the East. Without the spread of traditional ideas from the East, Western globalization would not have emerged the way it did. The second is distance. The interactions of states were not on a global scale and most often were confined to Asia, North Africa, the Middle East, and certain parts of Europe. With early globalization, it was difficult for states to interact with others that were not within a close proximity. Eventually, technological advances allowed states to learn of others' existence and thus another phase of globalization can occur. The third has to do with inter-dependency, stability, and regularity. If a state is not dependent on another, then there is no way for either state to be mutually affected by the other. This is one of the driving forces behind global connections and trade; without either, globalization would not have emerged the way it did and states would still be dependent on their own production and resources to work. This is one of the arguments surrounding the idea of early globalization. It is argued that archaic globalization did not function in a similar manner to modern globalization because states were not as interdependent on others as they are today.\n\nAlso posited is a \"multi-polar\" nature to archaic globalization, which involved the active participation of non-Europeans. Because it predated the Great Divergence of the nineteenth century, where Western Europe pulled ahead of the rest of the world in terms of industrial production and economic output, archaic globalization was a phenomenon that was driven not only by Europe but also by other economically developed Old World centers such as Gujarat, Bengal, coastal China, and Japan.\nThe German historical economist and sociologist Andre Gunder Frank argues that a form of globalization began with the rise of trade links between Sumer and the Indus Valley Civilization in the third millennium B.C.E. This archaic globalization existed during the Hellenistic Age, when commercialized urban centers enveloped the axis of Greek culture that reached from India to Spain, including Alexandria and the other Alexandrine cities. Early on, the geographic position of Greece and the necessity of importing wheat forced the Greeks to engage in maritime trade. Trade in ancient Greece was largely unrestricted: the state controlled only the supply of grain.\n\nTrade on the Silk Road was a significant factor in the development of civilizations from China, Indian subcontinent, Persia, Europe, and Arabia, opening long-distance political and economic interactions between them. Though silk was certainly the major trade item from China, common goods such as salt and sugar were traded as well; and religions, syncretic philosophies, and various technologies, as well as diseases, also traveled along the Silk Routes. In addition to economic trade, the Silk Road served as a means of carrying out cultural trade among the civilizations along its network. The movement of people, such as refugees, artists, craftsmen, missionaries, robbers, and envoys, resulted in the exchange of religions, art, languages, and new technologies.\n\n\"Early modern-\" or \"proto-globalization\" covers a period of the history of globalization roughly spanning the years between 1600 and 1800. The concept of \"proto-globalization\" was first introduced by historians A. G. Hopkins and Christopher Bayly. The term describes the phase of increasing trade links and cultural exchange that characterized the period immediately preceding the advent of high \"modern globalization\" in the late 19th century. This phase of globalization was characterized by the rise of maritime European empires, in the 16th and 17th centuries, first the Portuguese and Spanish Empires, and later the Dutch and British Empires. In the 17th century, world trade developed further when chartered companies like the British East India Company (founded in 1600) and the Dutch East India Company (founded in 1602, often described as the first multinational corporation in which stock was offered) were established.\n\nEarly modern globalization is distinguished from modern globalization on the basis of expansionism, the method of managing global trade, and the level of information exchange. The period is marked by such trade arrangements as the East India Company, the shift of hegemony to Western Europe, the rise of larger-scale conflicts between powerful nations such as the Thirty Years' War, and the rise of newfound commodities—most particularly slave trade. The Triangular Trade made it possible for Europe to take advantage of resources within the Western Hemisphere. The transfer of animal stocks, plant crops, and epidemic diseases associated with Alfred W. Crosby's concept of the Columbian Exchange also played a central role in this process. European, Muslim, Indian, Southeast Asian, and Chinese merchants were all involved in early modern trade and communications, particularly in the Indian Ocean region.\n\nAccording to economic historians Kevin H. O'Rourke, Leandro Prados de la Escosura, and Guillaume Daudin, several factors promoted globalization in the period 1815-1870: \nDuring the 19th century, globalization approached its form as a direct result of the Industrial Revolution. Industrialization allowed standardized production of household items using economies of scale while rapid population growth created sustained demand for commodities. In the 19th century, steamships reduced the cost of international transport significantly and railroads made inland transportation cheaper. The transport revolution occurred some time between 1820 and 1850. More nations embraced international trade. Globalization in this period was decisively shaped by nineteenth-century imperialism such as in Africa and Asia. The invention of shipping containers in 1956 helped advance the globalization of commerce.\n\nAfter World War II, work by politicians led to the agreements of the Bretton Woods Conference, in which major governments laid down the framework for international monetary policy, commerce, and finance, and the founding of several international institutions intended to facilitate economic growth by lowering trade barriers. Initially, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) led to a series of agreements to remove trade restrictions. GATT's successor was the World Trade Organization (WTO), which provided a framework for negotiating and formalizing trade agreements and a dispute resolution process. Exports nearly doubled from 8.5% of total gross world product in 1970 to 16.2% in 2001. The approach of using global agreements to advance trade stumbled with the failure of the Doha Development Round of trade negotiation. Many countries then shifted to bilateral or smaller multilateral agreements, such as the 2011 South Korea–United States Free Trade Agreement.\n\nSince the 1970s, aviation has become increasingly affordable to middle classes in developed countries. Open skies policies and low-cost carriers have helped to bring competition to the market. In the 1990s, the growth of low-cost communication networks cut the cost of communicating between different countries. More work can be performed using a computer without regard to location. This included accounting, software development, and engineering design.\n\nStudent exchange programs became popular after World War II, and are intended to increase the participants' understanding and tolerance of other cultures, as well as improving their language skills and broadening their social horizons. Between 1963 and 2006 the number of students studying in a foreign country increased 9 times.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th century, the connectedness of the world's economies and cultures grew very quickly. This slowed down from the 1910s onward due to the World Wars and the Cold War, but picked up again in the 1980s and 1990s. The revolutions of 1989 and subsequent liberalization in many parts of the world resulted in a significant expansion of global interconnectedness. The migration and movement of people can also be highlighted as a prominent feature of the globalization process. In the period between 1965 and 1990, the proportion of the labor force migrating approximately doubled. Most migration occurred between the developing countries and least developed countries (LDCs). As economic integration intensified workers moved to areas with higher wages and most of the developing world oriented toward the international market economy. The collapse of the Soviet Union not only ended the Cold War's division of the world- it also left the United States its sole policeman and an unfettered advocate of free market. It also resulted in the growing prominence of attention focused on the movement of diseases, the proliferation of popular culture and consumer values, the growing prominence of international institutions like the UN, and concerted international action on such issues as the environment and human rights. Other developments as dramatic were the Internet has become influential in connecting people across the world. , more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world's human population—have used the services of the Internet. Growth of globalization has never been smooth. One influential event was the late 2000s recession, which was associated with lower growth (in areas such as cross-border phone calls and Skype usage) or even temporarily negative growth (in areas such as trade) of global interconnectedness. The DHL Global Connectedness Index studies four main types of cross-border flow: trade (in both goods and services), information, people (including tourists, students, and migrants), and capital. It shows that the depth of global integration fell by about one-tenth after 2008, but by 2013 had recovered well above its pre-crash peak. The report also found a shift of economic activity to emerging economies.\n\nGlobalized society offers a complex web of forces and factors that bring people, cultures, markets, beliefs, and practices into increasingly greater proximity to one another.\n\nEconomic globalization is the increasing economic interdependence of national economies across the world through a rapid increase in cross-border movement of goods, services, technology, and capital. Whereas the globalization of business is centered around the diminution of international trade regulations as well as tariffs, taxes, and other impediments that suppresses global trade, economic globalization is the process of increasing economic integration between countries, leading to the emergence of a global marketplace or a single world market. Depending on the paradigm, economic globalization can be viewed as either a positive or a negative phenomenon. Economic globalization comprises: Globalization of production; which refers to the obtention of goods and services from a particular source from different locations around the globe to benefit from difference in cost and quality. Likewise, it also comprises globalization of markets; which is defined as the union of different and separate markets into a massive global marketplace. Economic globalization also includes competition, technology, and corporations and industries.\n\nCurrent globalization trends can be largely accounted for by developed economies integrating with less developed economies by means of foreign direct investment, the reduction of trade barriers as well as other economic reforms, and, in many cases, immigration. more apparently, before the phase of Globalization, United States of America was a dominant country which held the essential economic power in world export. But after the advent of\nglobalization, Germany, Japan, South Korea and China have significantly become serious counterparts by challenging the position of America. [https://ijbssnet.com/journals/Vol_2_No_23_Special_Issue_December_2011/36.pdf. \"Globalization and its Impacts on the World Economic Development\n\".] Albeit some countries in the world are for the idea that one country can economically dominate others and govern the entire world, now the\ninstitutions like United Nations Organization, International Monetary Fund, World Trade Organization and World\nBank are considerably share the economic power and monitoring the balance of power distribution by regulating the relationship between different\ncountries and governing issues of Justice, Human relations or political factors. \" Globalization and its Impacts on the World Economic Development \".\n\nInternational standards have made trade in goods and services more efficient. An example of such standard is the intermodal container. Containerization dramatically reduced transport of its costs, supported the post-war boom in international trade, and was a major element in globalization. International Organization for Standardization is an international standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national standards organizations.\n\nA multinational corporation or worldwide enterprise is an organization that owns or controls production of goods or services in one or more countries other than their home country. It can also be referred as an international corporation, a transnational corporation, or a stateless corporation.\n\nA free-trade area is the region encompassing a trade bloc whose member countries have signed a free-trade agreement (FTA). Such agreements involve cooperation between at least two countries to reduce trade barriers import quotas and tariffs and to increase trade of goods and services with each other.\nIf people are also free to move between the countries, in addition to a free-trade agreement, it would also be considered an open border.\nArguably the most significant free-trade area in the world is the European Union, a politico-economic union of member states that are primarily located in Europe. The EU has developed European Single Market through a standardised system of laws that apply in all member states. EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, services, and capital within the internal market,\n\nTrade facilitation looks at how procedures and controls governing the movement of goods across national borders can be improved to reduce associated cost burdens and maximise efficiency while safeguarding legitimate regulatory objectives.\n\nGlobal trade in services is also significant. For example, in India, business process outsourcing has been described as the \"primary engine of the country's development over the next few decades, contributing broadly to GDP growth, employment growth, and poverty alleviation\".\n\nWilliam I. Robinson's theoretical approach to globalization is a critique of Wallerstein's World Systems Theory. He believes that the global capital experienced today is due to a new and distinct form of globalization which began in the 1980s. Robinson argues not only are economic activities expanded across national boundaries but also there is a transnational fragmentation of these activities. One important aspect of Robinson's globalization theory is that production of goods are increasingly global. This means that one pair of shoes can be produced by six different countries, each contributing to a part of the production process.\n\nCultural globalization refers to the transmission of ideas, meanings, and values around the world in such a way as to extend and intensify social relations. This process is marked by the common consumption of cultures that have been diffused by the Internet, popular culture media, and international travel. This has added to processes of commodity exchange and colonization which have a longer history of carrying cultural meaning around the globe. The circulation of cultures enables individuals to partake in extended social relations that cross national and regional borders. The creation and expansion of such social relations is not merely observed on a material level. Cultural globalization involves the formation of shared norms and knowledge with which people associate their individual and collective cultural identities. It brings increasing interconnectedness among different populations and cultures.\n\nCross-cultural communication is a field of study that looks at how people from differing cultural backgrounds communicate, in similar and different ways among themselves, and how they endeavour to communicate across cultures. Intercultural communication is a related field of study.\n\nCultural diffusion is the spread of cultural items—such as ideas, styles, religions, technologies, languages etc.\nCultural globalization has increased cross-cultural contacts, but may be accompanied by a decrease in the uniqueness of once-isolated communities. For example, sushi is available in Germany as well as Japan, but Euro-Disney outdraws the city of Paris, potentially reducing demand for \"authentic\" French pastry. Globalization's contribution to the alienation of individuals from their traditions may be modest compared to the impact of modernity itself, as alleged by existentialists such as Jean-Paul Sartre and Albert Camus. Globalization has expanded recreational opportunities by spreading pop culture, particularly via the Internet and satellite television.\n\nReligions were among the earliest cultural elements to globalize, being spread by force, migration, evangelists, imperialists, and traders. Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, and more recently sects such as Mormonism are among those religions which have taken root and influenced endemic cultures in places far from their origins.\nGlobalization has strongly influenced sports. For example, the modern Olympic Games has athletes from more than 200 nations participating in a variety of competitions. The FIFA World Cup is the most widely viewed and followed sporting event in the world, exceeding even the Olympic Games; a ninth of the entire population of the planet watched the 2006 FIFA World Cup Final.\n\nThe term globalization implies transformation. Cultural practices including traditional music can be lost or turned into a fusion of traditions. Globalization can trigger a state of emergency for the preservation of musical heritage. Archivists may attempt to collect, record, or transcribe repertoires before melodies are assimilated or modified, while local musicians may struggle for authenticity and to preserve local musical traditions. Globalization can lead performers to discard traditional instruments. Fusion genres can become interesting fields of analysis.\n\nMusic has an important role in economic and cultural development during globalization. Music genres such as jazz and reggae began locally and later became international phenomena. Globalization gave support to the world music phenomenon by allowing music from developing countries to reach broader audiences. Though the term \"World Music\" was originally intended for ethnic-specific music, globalization is now expanding its scope such that the term often includes hybrid subgenres such as \"world fusion\", \"global fusion\", \"ethnic fusion\", and worldbeat.\nBourdieu claimed that the perception of consumption can be seen as self-identification and the formation of identity. Musically, this translates into each individual having their own musical identity based on likes and tastes. These likes and tastes are greatly influenced by culture, as this is the most basic cause for a person's wants and behavior. The concept of one's own culture is now in a period of change due to globalization. Also, globalization has increased the interdependency of political, personal, cultural, and economic factors.\n\nA 2005 UNESCO report showed that cultural exchange is becoming more frequent from Eastern Asia, but that Western countries are still the main exporters of cultural goods. In 2002, China was the third largest exporter of cultural goods, after the UK and US. Between 1994 and 2002, both North America's and the European Union's shares of cultural exports declined while Asia's cultural exports grew to surpass North America. Related factors are the fact that Asia's population and area are several times that of North America. Americanization is related to a period of high political American clout and of significant growth of America's shops, markets and objects being brought into other countries.\n\nSome critics of globalization argue that it harms the diversity of cultures. As a dominating country's culture is introduced into a receiving country through globalization, it can become a threat to the diversity of local culture. Some argue that globalization may ultimately lead to Westernization or Americanization of culture, where the dominating cultural concepts of economically and politically powerful Western countries spread and cause harm to local cultures.\n\nGlobalization is a diverse phenomenon which relates to a multilateral political world and to the increase of cultural objects and markets between countries. The Indian experience particularly reveals the plurality of the impact of cultural globalization.\n\nTransculturalism is defined as \"seeing oneself in the other\". Transcultural is in turn described as \"extending through all human cultures\" or \"involving, encompassing, or combining elements of more than one culture\".\n\nIn general, globalization may ultimately reduce the importance of nation states. Supranational institutions such as the European Union, the WTO, the G8 or the International Criminal Court replace or extend national functions to facilitate international agreement. This could ultimately lead to a global union, based on the European Union model.\n\nIntergovernmentalism is a term in political science with two meanings. The first refers to a theory of regional integration originally proposed by Stanley Hoffmann; the second treats states and the national government as the primary factors for integration.\nMulti-level governance is an approach in political science and public administration theory that originated from studies on European integration. Multi-level governance gives expression to the idea that there are many interacting authority structures at work in the emergent global political economy. It illuminates the intimate entanglement between the domestic and international levels of authority.\n\nSome people are citizens of multiple nation-states. Multiple citizenship, also called dual citizenship or multiple nationality or dual nationality, is a person's citizenship status, in which a person is concurrently regarded as a citizen of more than one state under the laws of those states.\n\nIncreasingly, non-governmental organizations influence public policy across national boundaries, including humanitarian aid and developmental efforts. Philanthropic organizations with global missions are also coming to the forefront of humanitarian efforts; charities such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Accion International, the Acumen Fund (now Acumen) and the Echoing Green have combined the business model with philanthropy, giving rise to business organizations such as the Global Philanthropy Group and new associations of philanthropists such as the Global Philanthropy Forum. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation projects include a current multibillion-dollar commitment to funding immunizations in some of the world's more impoverished but rapidly growing countries. The Hudson Institute estimates total private philanthropic flows to developing countries at US$59 billion in 2010.\n\nAs a response to globalization, some countries have embraced isolationist policies. For example, the North Korean government makes it very difficult for foreigners to enter the country and strictly monitors their activities when they do. Aid workers are subject to considerable scrutiny and excluded from places and regions the government does not wish them to enter. Citizens cannot freely leave the country.\n\nScholars also occasionally discuss other, less common dimensions of globalization, such as environmental globalization (the internationally coordinated practices and regulations, often in the form of international treaties, regarding environmental protection) or military globalization (growth in global extent and scope of security relationships). Those dimensions, however, receive much less attention the three described above, as academic literature commonly subdivides globalization into three major areas: economic globalization, cultural globalization and political globalization.\n\nAn essential aspect of globalization is movement of people, and state-boundary limits on that movement have changed across history. The movement of tourists and business people opened up over the last century. As transportation technology improved, travel time and costs decreased dramatically between the 18th and early 20th century. For example, travel across the Atlantic ocean used to take up to 5 weeks in the 18th century, but around the time of the 20th century it took a mere 8 days. Today, modern aviation has made long-distance transportation quick and affordable.\n\nTourism is travel for pleasure. The developments in technology and transport infrastructure, such as jumbo jets, low-cost airlines, and more accessible airports have made many types of tourism more affordable. International tourist arrivals surpassed the milestone of 1 billion tourists globally for the first time in 2012.\nA visa is a conditional authorization granted by a country to a foreigner, allowing them to enter and temporarily remain within, or to leave that country. Some countries – such as those in the Schengen Area – have agreements with other countries allowing each other's citizens to travel between them without visas. The World Tourism Organization announced that the number of tourists who require a visa before traveling was at its lowest level ever in 2015.\n\nImmigration is the international movement of people into a destination country of which they are not natives or where they do not possess citizenship in order to settle or reside there, especially as permanent residents or naturalized citizens, or to take-up employment as a migrant worker or temporarily as a foreign worker.\nAccording to the International Labour Organization, there were an estimated 232 million international migrants in the world (defined as persons outside their country of origin for 12 months or more) and approximately half of them were estimated to be economically active (i.e. being employed or seeking employment). International movement of labor is often seen as important to economic development. For example, freedom of movement for workers in the European Union means that people can move freely between member states to live, work, study or retire in another country.\nGlobalization is associated with a dramatic rise in international education. More and more students are seeking higher education in foreign countries and many international students now consider overseas study a stepping-stone to permanent residency within a country. The contributions that foreign students make to host nation economies, both culturally and financially has encouraged major players to implement further initiatives to facilitate the arrival and integration of overseas students, including substantial amendments to immigration and visa policies and procedures.\n\nA transnational marriage is a marriage between two people from different countries. A variety of special issues arise in marriages between people from different countries, including those related to citizenship and culture, which add complexity and challenges to these kinds of relationships.\nIn an age of increasing globalization, where a growing number of people have ties to networks of people and places across the globe, rather than to a current geographic location, people are increasingly marrying across national boundaries. Transnational marriage is a by-product of the movement and migration of people.\n\nBefore electronic communications, long-distance communications relied on mail. Speed of global communications was limited by the maximum speed of courier services (especially horses and ships) until the mid-19th century. The electric telegraph was the first method of instant long-distance communication. For example, before the first transatlantic cable, communications between Europe and the Americas took weeks because ships had to carry mail across the ocean. The first transatlantic cable reduced communication time considerably, allowing a message and a response in the same day. Lasting transatlantic telegraph connections were achieved in the 1865–1866. The first wireless telegraphy transmitters were developed in 1895.\n\nThe Internet has been instrumental in connecting people across geographical boundaries. For example, Facebook is a social networking service which has more than 1.65 billion monthly active users .\n\nGlobalization can be spread by Global journalism which provides massive information and relies on the internet to interact, \"makes it into an everyday routine to investigate how people and their actions, practices, problems, life conditions etc. in different parts of the world are interrelated. possible to assume that global threats such as climate change precipitate the further establishment of global journalism.\"\n\nOne index of globalization is the \"KOF Index of Globalization\", which measures three important dimensions of globalization: economic, social, and political. Another is the A.T. Kearney / Foreign Policy Magazine Globalization Index.\nMeasurements of economic globalization typically focus on variables such as trade, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), Gross Domestic Product (GDP), portfolio investment, and income. However, newer indices attempt to measure globalization in more general terms, including variables related to political, social, cultural, and even environmental aspects of globalization.\n\nReactions to processes contributing to globalization have varied widely with a history as long as extraterritorial contact and trade. Philosophical differences regarding the costs and benefits of such processes give rise to a broad-range of ideologies and social movements. Proponents of economic growth, expansion and development, in general, view globalizing processes as desirable or necessary to the well-being of human society.\n\nAntagonists view one or more globalizing processes as detrimental to social well-being on a global or local scale; this includes those who social or natural sustainability of long-term and continuous economic expansion, the social structural inequality caused by these processes, and the colonial, imperialistic, or hegemonic ethnocentrism, cultural assimilation and cultural appropriation that underlie such processes.\n\nGlobalization tends to bring people into contact with foreign people and cultures. Xenophobia is the fear of that which is perceived to be foreign or strange. Xenophobia can manifest itself in many ways involving the relations and perceptions of an ingroup towards an outgroup, including a fear of losing identity, suspicion of its activities, aggression, and desire to eliminate its presence to secure a presumed purity.\n\nCritiques of globalization generally stem from discussions surrounding the impact of such processes on the planet as well as the human costs. They challenge directly traditional metrics, such as GDP, and look to other measures, such as the Gini coefficient or the Happy Planet Index, and point to a \"multitude of interconnected fatal consequences–social disintegration, a breakdown of democracy, more rapid and extensive deterioration of the environment, the spread of new diseases, increasing poverty and alienation\" which they claim are the unintended consequences of globalization. Others point out that, while the forces of globalization have led to the spread of western-style democracy, this has been accompanied by an increase in inter-ethnic tension and violence as free market economic policies combine with democratic processes of universal suffrage as well as an escalation in militarization to impose democratic principles and as a means to conflict resolution.\n\nA 2005 study by Peer Fiss and Paul Hirsch found a large increase in articles negative towards globalization in the years prior. In 1998, negative articles outpaced positive articles by two to one. The number of newspaper articles showing negative framing rose from about 10% of the total in 1991 to 55% of the total in 1999. This increase occurred during a period when the total number of articles concerning globalization nearly doubled.\n\nA number of international polls have shown that residents of Africa and Asia tend to view globalization more favorably than residents of Europe or North America. In Africa, a Gallup poll found that 70% of the population views globalization favorably. The BBC found that 50% of people believed that economic globalization was proceeding too rapidly, while 35% believed it was proceeding too slowly.\n\nIn 2004, Philip Gordon stated that \"a clear majority of Europeans believe that globalization can enrich their lives, while believing the European Union can help them take advantage of globalization's benefits while shielding them from its negative effects.\" The main opposition consisted of socialists, environmental groups, and nationalists. Residents of the EU did not appear to feel threatened by globalization in 2004. The EU job market was more stable and workers were less likely to accept wage/benefit cuts. Social spending was much higher than in the US. In a Danish poll in 2007, 76% responded that globalization is a good thing.\n\nFiss, \"et al.\", surveyed US opinion in 1993. Their survey showed that, in 1993, more than 40% of respondents were unfamiliar with the concept of globalization. When the survey was repeated in 1998, 89% of the respondents had a polarized view of globalization as being either good or bad. At the same time, discourse on globalization, which began in the financial community before shifting to a heated debate between proponents and disenchanted students and workers. Polarization increased dramatically after the establishment of the WTO in 1995; this event and subsequent protests led to a large-scale anti-globalization movement.\nInitially, college educated workers were likely to support globalization. Less educated workers, who were more likely to compete with immigrants and workers in developing countries, tended to be opponents. The situation changed after the financial crisis of 2007. According to a 1997 poll 58% of college graduates said globalization had been good for the US. By 2008 only 33% thought it was good. Respondents with high school education also became more opposed.\n\nAccording to Takenaka Heizo and Chida Ryokichi, there was a perception in Japan that the economy was \"Small and Frail\". However, Japan was resource-poor and used exports to pay for its raw materials. Anxiety over their position caused terms such as \"internationalization\" and \"globalization\" to enter everyday language. However, Japanese tradition was to be as self-sufficient as possible, particularly in agriculture.\n\nMany in developing countries see globalization as a positive force that lifts them out of poverty. Those opposing globalization typically combine environmental concerns with nationalism. Opponents consider governments as agents of neo-colonialism that are subservient to multinational corporations. Much of this criticism comes from the middle class; the Brookings Institution suggested this was because the middle class perceived upwardly mobile low-income groups as threatening to their economic security.\n\nThe literature analysing the economics of free trade is extremely rich with extensive work having been done on the theoretical and empirical effects. Though it creates winners and losers, the broad consensus among economists is that free trade is a large and unambiguous net gain for society. In a 2006 survey of American economists (83 responders), \"87.5% agree that the U.S. should eliminate remaining tariffs and other barriers to trade\" and \"90.1% disagree with the suggestion that the U.S. should restrict employers from outsourcing work to foreign countries.\"\n\nQuoting Harvard economics professor N. Gregory Mankiw, \"Few propositions command as much consensus among professional economists as that open world trade increases economic growth and raises living standards.\" In a survey of leading economists, none disagreed with the notion that \"freer trade improves productive efficiency and offers consumers better choices, and in the long run these gains are much larger than any effects on employment.\" Most economists would agree that although increasing returns to scale might mean that certain industry could settle in a geographical area without any strong economic reason derived from comparative advantage, this is not a reason to argue against free trade because the absolute level of output enjoyed by both \"winner\" and \"loser\" will increase with the \"winner\" gaining more than the \"loser\" but both gaining more than before in an absolute level.\n\nIn the book \"The End of Poverty\", Jeffrey Sachs discusses how many factors can affect a country's ability to enter the world market, including government corruption; legal and social disparities based on gender, ethnicity, or caste; diseases such as AIDS and malaria; lack of infrastructure (including transportation, communications, health, and trade); unstable political landscapes; protectionism; and geographic barriers. Jagdish Bhagwati, a former adviser to the U.N. on globalization, holds that, although there are obvious problems with overly rapid development, globalization is a very positive force that lifts countries out of poverty by causing a virtuous economic cycle associated with faster economic growth. However, economic growth does not necessarily mean a reduction in poverty; in fact, the two can coexist. Economic growth is conventionally measured using indicators such as GDP and GNI that do not accurately reflect the growing disparities in wealth. Additionally, Oxfam International argues that poor people are often excluded from globalization-induced opportunities \"by a lack of productive assets, weak infrastructure, poor education and ill-health;\" effectively leaving these marginalized groups in a poverty trap. Economist Paul Krugman is another staunch supporter of globalization and free trade with a record of disagreeing with many critics of globalization. He argues that many of them lack a basic understanding of comparative advantage and its importance in today's world.\nThe flow of migrants to advanced economic countries has been claimed to provide a means through which global wages converge. An IMF study noted a potential for skills to be transferred back to developing countries as wages in those a countries rise. Lastly, the dissemination of knowledge has been an integral aspect of globalization. Technological innovations (or technological transfer) is conjectured to benefit most the developing and least developing countries (LDCs), as for example in the adoption of mobile phones.\n\nThere has been a rapid economic growth in Asia after embracing market orientation-based economic policies that encourage private property rights, free enterprise and competition. In particular, in East Asian developing countries, GDP per head rose at 5.9% a year from 1975 to 2001 (according to 2003 Human Development Report of UNDP). Like this, the British economic journalist Martin Wolf says that incomes of poor developing countries, with more than half the world's population, grew substantially faster than those of the world's richest countries that remained relatively stable in its growth, leading to reduced international inequality and the incidence of poverty.\n\nCertain demographic changes in the developing world after active economic liberalization and international integration resulted in rising general welfare and, hence, reduced inequality. According to Wolf, in the developing world as a whole, life expectancy rose by four months each year after 1970 and infant mortality rate declined from 107 per thousand in 1970 to 58 in 2000 due to improvements in standards of living and health conditions. Also, adult literacy in developing countries rose from 53% in 1970 to 74% in 1998 and much lower illiteracy rate among the young guarantees that rates will continue to fall as time passes. Furthermore, the reduction in fertility rate in the developing world as a whole from 4.1 births per woman in 1980 to 2.8 in 2000 indicates improved education level of women on fertility, and control of fewer children with more parental attention and investment. Consequently, more prosperous and educated parents with fewer children have chosen to withdraw their children from the labor force to give them opportunities to be educated at school improving the issue of child labor. Thus, despite seemingly unequal distribution of income within these developing countries, their economic growth and development have brought about improved standards of living and welfare for the population as a whole.\nPer capita gross domestic product (GDP) growth among post-1980 globalizing countries accelerated from 1.4 percent a year in the 1960s and 2.9 percent a year in the 1970s to 3.5 percent in the 1980s and 5.0 percent in the 1990s. This acceleration in growth seems even more remarkable given that the rich countries saw steady declines in growth from a high of 4.7 percent in the 1960s to 2.2 percent in the 1990s. Also, the non-globalizing developing countries seem to fare worse than the globalizers, with the former's annual growth rates falling from highs of 3.3 percent during the 1970s to only 1.4 percent during the 1990s. This rapid growth among the globalizers is not simply due to the strong performances of China and India in the 1980s and 1990s—18 out of the 24 globalizers experienced increases in growth, many of them quite substantial.\n\nThe globalization of the late 20th and early 21st centuries has led to the resurfacing of the idea that the growth of economic interdependence promotes peace. This idea had been very powerful during the globalization of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and was a central doctrine of classical liberals of that era, such as the young John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946).\n\nSome opponents of globalization see the phenomenon as a promotion of corporate interests. They also claim that the increasing autonomy and strength of corporate entities shapes the political policy of countries. They advocate global institutions and policies that they believe better address the moral claims of poor and working classes as well as environmental concerns. Economic arguments by fair trade theorists claim that unrestricted free trade benefits those with more financial leverage (i.e. the rich) at the expense of the poor.\n\nGlobalization allows corporations to outsource manufacturing and service jobs from high cost locations, creating economic opportunities with the most competitive wages and worker benefits. Critics of globalization say that it disadvantages poorer countries. While it is true that free trade encourages globalization among countries, some countries try to protect their domestic suppliers. The main export of poorer countries is usually agricultural productions. Larger countries often subsidize their farmers (e.g., the EU's Common Agricultural Policy), which lowers the market price for foreign crops.\n\nDemocratic globalization is a movement towards an institutional system of global democracy that would give world citizens a say in political organizations. This would, in their view, bypass nation-states, corporate oligopolies, ideological Non-governmental organizations (NGO), political cults and mafias. One of its most prolific proponents is the British political thinker David Held. Advocates of democratic globalization argue that economic expansion and development should be the first phase of democratic globalization, which is to be followed by a phase of building global political institutions. Dr. Francesco Stipo, Director of the United States Association of the Club of Rome, advocates unifying nations under a world government, suggesting that it \"should reflect the political and economic balances of world nations. A world confederation would not supersede the authority of the State governments but rather complement it, as both the States and the world authority would have power within their sphere of competence\". Former Canadian Senator Douglas Roche, O.C., viewed globalization as inevitable and advocated creating institutions such as a directly elected United Nations Parliamentary Assembly to exercise oversight over unelected international bodies.\n\nGlobal civics suggests that civics can be understood, in a global sense, as a social contract between global citizens in the age of interdependence and interaction. The disseminators of the concept define it as the notion that we have certain rights and responsibilities towards each other by the mere fact of being human on Earth. World citizen has a variety of similar meanings, often referring to a person who disapproves of traditional geopolitical divisions derived from national citizenship. An early incarnation of this sentiment can be found in Socrates, whom Plutarch quoted as saying: \"I am not an Athenian, or a Greek, but a citizen of the world.\" In an increasingly interdependent world, world citizens need a compass to frame their mindsets and create a shared consciousness and sense of global responsibility in world issues such as environmental problems and nuclear proliferation.\n\nBaha'i-inspired author Meyjes, while favoring the single world community and emergent global consciousness, warns of globalization as a cloak for an expeditious economic, social, and cultural Anglo-dominance that is insufficiently inclusive to inform the emergence of an optimal world civilization. He proposes a process of \"universalization\" as an alternative.\n\nCosmopolitanism is the proposal that all human ethnic groups belong to a single community based on a shared morality. A person who adheres to the idea of cosmopolitanism in any of its forms is called a cosmopolitan or cosmopolite. A cosmopolitan community might be based on an inclusive morality, a shared economic relationship, or a political structure that encompasses different nations. The cosmopolitan community is one in which individuals from different places (e.g. nation-states) form relationships based on mutual respect. For instance, Kwame Anthony Appiah suggests the possibility of a cosmopolitan community in which individuals from varying locations (physical, economic, etc.) enter relationships of mutual respect despite their differing beliefs (religious, political, etc.).\n\nCanadian philosopher Marshall McLuhan popularized the term \"Global Village\" beginning in 1962. His view suggested that globalization would lead to a world where people from all countries will become more integrated and aware of common interests and shared humanity.\n\nMilitary cooperation – Past examples of international cooperation exist. One example is the security cooperation between the United States and the former Soviet Union after the end of the Cold War, which astonished international society. Arms control and disarmament agreements, including the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (see START I, START II, START III, and New START) and the establishment of NATO's Partnership for Peace, the Russia NATO Council, and the G8 Global Partnership against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, constitute concrete initiatives of arms control and de-nuclearization. The US–Russian cooperation was further strengthened by anti-terrorism agreements enacted in the wake of 9/11.\n\nEnvironmental cooperation – One of the biggest successes of environmental cooperation has been the agreement to reduce chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) emissions, as specified in the Montreal Protocol, in order to stop ozone depletion. The most recent debate around nuclear energy and the non-alternative coal-burning power plants constitutes one more consensus on what not to do. Thirdly, significant achievements in IC can be observed through development studies.\n\nAnti-globalization, or counter-globalization, consists of a number of criticisms of globalization but, in general, is critical of the globalization of corporate capitalism. The movement is also commonly referred to as the alter-globalization movement, anti-globalist movement, anti-corporate globalization movement, or movement against neoliberal globalization. Opponents of globalization argue that there is unequal power and respect in terms of international trade between the developed and underdeveloped countries of the world. The diverse subgroups that make up this movement include some of the following: trade unionists, environmentalists, anarchists, land rights and indigenous rights activists, organizations promoting human rights and sustainable development, opponents of privatization, and anti-sweatshop campaigners.\n\nIn \"The Revolt of the Elites and the Betrayal of Democracy\", Christopher Lasch analyzes the widening gap between the top and bottom of the social composition in the United States. For him, our epoch is determined by a social phenomenon: the revolt of the elites, in reference to \"The revolt of the masses\" (1929) of the Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset. According to Lasch, the new elites, i.e. those who are in the top 20% in terms of income, through globalization which allows total mobility of capital, no longer live in the same world as their fellow-citizens. In this, they oppose the old bourgeoisie of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, which was constrained by its spatial stability to a minimum of rooting and civic obligations.\nGlobalization, according to the sociologist, has turned elites into tourists in their own countries. The de-nationalisation of business enterprise tends to produce a class who see themselves as \"world citizens, but without accepting ... any of the obligations that citizenship in a polity normally implies\". Their ties to an international culture of work, leisure, information – make many of them deeply indifferent to the prospect of national decline. Instead of financing public services and the public treasury, new elites are investing their money in improving their voluntary ghettos: private schools in their residential neighborhoods, private police, garbage collection systems. They have \"withdrawn from common life\".\nComposed of those who control the international flows of capital and information, who preside over philanthropic foundations and institutions of higher education, manage the instruments of cultural production and thus fix the terms of public debate. So, the political debate is limited mainly to the dominant classes and political ideologies lose all contact with the concerns of the ordinary citizen. The result of this is that no one has a likely solution to these problems and that there are furious ideological battles on related issues. \nHowever, they remain protected from the problems affecting the working classes: the decline of industrial activity, the resulting loss of employment, the decline of the middle class, increasing the number of the poor, the rising crime rate, growing drug trafficking, the urban crisis.\n\nD.A. Snow et al. contend that the anti-globalization movement is an example of a new social movement, which uses tactics that are unique and use different resources than previously used before in other social movements.\n\nOne of the most infamous tactics of the movement is the Battle of Seattle in 1999, where there were protests against the World Trade Organization's Third Ministerial Meeting. All over the world, the movement has held protests outside meetings of institutions such as the WTO, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, the World Economic Forum, and the Group of Eight (G8). Within the Seattle demonstrations the protesters that participated used both creative and violent tactics to gain the attention towards the issue of globalization.\n\nCapital markets have to do with raising and investing money in various human enterprises. Increasing integration of these financial markets between countries leads to the emergence of a global capital marketplace or a single world market. In the long run, increased movement of capital between countries tends to favor owners of capital more than any other group; in the short run, owners and workers in specific sectors in capital-exporting countries bear much of the burden of adjusting to increased movement of capital.\n\nThose opposed to capital market integration on the basis of human rights issues are especially disturbed by the various abuses which they think are perpetuated by global and international institutions that, they say, promote neoliberalism without regard to ethical standards. Common targets include the World Bank (WB), International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) and free trade treaties like the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), the Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI) and the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS). In light of the economic gap between rich and poor countries, movement adherents claim free trade without measures in place to protect the under-capitalized will contribute only to the strengthening the power of industrialized nations (often termed the \"North\" in opposition to the developing world's \"South\").\n\nCorporatist ideology, which privileges the rights of corporations (artificial or juridical persons) over those of natural persons, is an underlying factor in the recent rapid expansion of global commerce. In recent years, there have been an increasing number of books (Naomi Klein's 2000 \"No Logo\", for example) and films (\"e.g. The Corporation\" & \"Surplus\") popularizing an anti-corporate ideology to the public.\n\nA related contemporary ideology, consumerism, which encourages the personal acquisition of goods and services, also drives globalization. Anti-consumerism is a social movement against equating personal happiness with consumption and the purchase of material possessions. Concern over the treatment of consumers by large corporations has spawned substantial activism, and the incorporation of consumer education into school curricula. Social activists hold materialism is connected to global retail merchandizing and supplier convergence, war, greed, anomie, crime, environmental degradation, and general social malaise and discontent. One variation on this topic is activism by \"postconsumers\", with the strategic emphasis on moving \"beyond\" addictive consumerism.\n\nThe global justice movement is the loose collection of individuals and groups—often referred to as a \"movement of movements\"—who advocate fair trade rules and perceive current institutions of global economic integration as problems. The movement is often labeled an anti-globalization movement by the mainstream media. Those involved, however, frequently deny that they are anti-globalization, insisting that they support the globalization of communication and people and oppose only the global expansion of corporate power. The movement is based in the idea of social justice, desiring the creation of a society or institution based on the principles of equality and solidarity, the values of human rights, and the dignity of every human being. Social inequality within and between nations, including a growing global digital divide, is a focal point of the movement. Many nongovernmental organizations have now arisen to fight these inequalities that many in Latin America, Africa and Asia face. A few very popular and well known non-governmental organizations (NGOs) include: War Child, Red Cross, Free The Children and CARE International. They often create partnerships where they work towards improving the lives of those who live in developing countries by building schools, fixing infrastructure, cleaning water supplies, purchasing equipment and supplies for hospitals, and other aid efforts.\n\nThe economies of the world have developed unevenly, historically, such that entire geographical regions were left mired in poverty and disease while others began to reduce poverty and disease on a wholesale basis. From around 1980 through at least 2011, the GDP gap, while still wide, appeared to be closing and, in some more rapidly developing countries, life expectancies began to rise. If we look at the Gini coefficient for world income, since the late 1980s, the gap between some regions has markedly narrowed—between Asia and the advanced economies of the West, for example—but huge gaps remain globally. Overall equality across humanity, considered as individuals, has improved very little. Within the decade between 2003 and 2013, income inequality grew even in traditionally egalitarian countries like Germany, Sweden and Denmark. With a few exceptions—France, Japan, Spain—the top 10 percent of earners in most advanced economies raced ahead, while the bottom 10 percent fell further behind. By 2013, a tiny elite of multibillionaires, 85 to be exact, had amassed wealth equivalent to all the wealth owned by the poorest half (3.5 billion) of the world's total population of 7 billion.\n\nCritics of globalization argue that globalization results in weak labor unions: the surplus in cheap labor coupled with an ever-growing number of companies in transition weakened labor unions in high-cost areas. Unions become less effective and workers their enthusiasm for unions when membership begins to decline. They also cite an increase in the exploitation of child labor: countries with weak protections for children are vulnerable to infestation by rogue companies and criminal gangs who exploit them. Examples include quarrying, salvage, and farm work as well as trafficking, bondage, forced labor, prostitution and pornography.\n\nWomen often participate in the workforce in precarious work, including export-oriented employment. Evidence suggests that while globalization has expanded women's access to employment, the long-term goal of transforming gender inequalities remains unmet and appears unattainable without regulation of capital and a reorientation and expansion of the state's role in funding public goods and providing a social safety net. Furthermore, the intersectionality of gender, race, class, and more remain overlooked when assessing the impact of globalization.\n\nIn 2016, a study published by the IMF posited that neoliberalism, the ideological backbone of contemporary globalized capitalism, has been \"oversold\", with the benefits of neoliberal policies being \"fairly difficult to establish when looking at a broad group of countries\" and the costs, most significantly higher income inequality within nations, \"hurt the level and sustainability of growth.\"\n\nBeginning in the 1930s, opposition arose to the idea of a world government, as advocated by organizations such as the World Federalist Movement (WFM). Those who oppose global governance typically do so on objections that the idea is unfeasible, inevitably oppressive, or simply unnecessary. In general, these opponents are wary of the concentration of power or wealth that such governance might represent. Such reasoning dates back to the founding of the League of Nations and, later, the United Nations.\n\nEnvironmentalism is a broad philosophy, ideology and social movement regarding concerns for environmental conservation and improvement of the health of the environment. Environmentalist concerns with globalization include issues such as global warming, climate change, global water supply and water crises, inequity in energy consumption and energy conservation, transnational air pollution and pollution of the world ocean, overpopulation, world habitat sustainability, deforestation, biodiversity and species extinction.\n\nOne critique of globalization is that natural resources of the poor have been systematically taken over by the rich and the pollution promulgated by the rich is systematically dumped on the poor. Some argue that Northern corporations are increasingly exploiting resources of less wealthy countries for their global activities while it is the South that is disproportionately bearing the environmental burden of the globalized economy. Globalization is thus leading to a type of\" environmental apartheid\".\n\nHelena Norberg-Hodge, the director and founder of Local Futures/International Society for Ecology and Culture, criticizes globalization in many ways. In her book \"\", Norberg-Hodge claims that \"centuries of ecological balance and social harmony are under threat from the pressures of development and globalization.\" She also criticizes the standardization and rationalization of globalization, as it does not always yield the expected growth outcomes. Although globalization takes similar steps in most countries, scholars such as Hodge claim that it might not be effective to certain countries and that globalization has actually moved some countries backward instead of developing them.\n\nA related area of concern is the pollution haven hypothesis, which posits that, when large industrialized nations seek to set up factories or offices abroad, they will often look for the cheapest option in terms of resources and labor that offers the land and material access they require (see Race to the bottom). This often comes at the cost of environmentally sound practices. Developing countries with cheap resources and labor tend to have less stringent environmental regulations, and conversely, nations with stricter environmental regulations become more expensive for companies as a result of the costs associated with meeting these standards. Thus, companies that choose to physically invest in foreign countries tend to (re)locate to the countries with the lowest environmental standards or weakest enforcement.\n\nThe globalization of food production is associated with a more efficient system of food production. This is because crops are grown in countries with optimum growing conditions. This improvement causes an increase in the world's food supply which encourages improved food security.\n\nNorway's limited crop range advocates globalization of food production and availability. The northern-most country in Europe requires trade with other countries to ensure population food demands are met. The degree of self-sufficiency in food production is around 50% in Norway.\n\n"}
{"id": "17327112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17327112", "title": "Greek diacritics", "text": "Greek diacritics\n\nGreek orthography has used a variety of diacritics starting in the Hellenistic period. The more complex polytonic orthography () notates Ancient Greek phonology. The simpler monotonic orthography (), introduced in 1982, corresponds to Modern Greek phonology, and requires only two diacritics.\n\nPolytonic orthography (from () \"much, many\" and () \"accent\") is the standard system for Ancient Greek and Medieval Greek. The acute accent (´), the circumflex (ˆ), and the grave accent (`) indicate different kinds of pitch accent. The rough breathing (῾) indicates the presence of the sound before a letter, while the smooth breathing (᾿) indicates the absence of .\n\nSince in Modern Greek the pitch accent has been replaced by a dynamic accent (stress), and was lost, most polytonic diacritics have no phonetic significance, and merely reveal the underlying Ancient Greek etymology.\n\nMonotonic orthography (from () \"single\" and () \"accent\") is the standard system for Modern Greek. It retains two diacritics: a single accent or \"tonos\"\n(΄) that indicates stress, and the diaeresis (¨), which usually indicates a hiatus but occasionally indicates a diphthong: compare modern Greek (, \"lamb chops\"), with a diphthong, and (, \"little children\") with a simple vowel. A \"tonos\" and a \"diaeresis\" can be combined on a single vowel to indicate a stressed vowel after a hiatus, as in the verb (, \"to feed\").\n\nAlthough it is not a diacritic, the hypodiastole (comma) has in a similar way the function of a sound-changing diacritic in a handful of Greek words, principally distinguishing (, \"whatever\") from (, \"that\").\n\nThe original Greek alphabet did not have diacritics. The Greek alphabet is attested since the 8th century BC, and until 403 BC, variations of the Greek alphabet—which exclusively used what is now known as capitals—were used in different cities and areas. From 403 on, the Athenians decided to employ a version of the Ionian alphabet. With the spread of Koine Greek, a continuation of the Attic dialect, the Ionic alphabet superseded the other alphabets, known as epichoric, with varying degrees of speed. The Ionian alphabet, however, also only consisted of capitals.\n\nThe rough and smooth breathings were introduced in classical times in order to represent the presence or absence of an in Attic Greek, which had adopted a form of the alphabet in which the letter Η (eta) was no longer available for this purpose as it was used to represent the long vowel .\n\nDuring the Hellenistic period (3rd century BC), Aristophanes of Byzantium introduced the breathings—marks of aspiration (the aspiration however being already noted on certain inscriptions, not by means of diacritics but by regular letters or modified letters)—and the accents, of which the use started to spread, to become standard in the Middle Ages. It was not until the 2nd century AD that accents and breathings appeared sporadically in papyri. The need for the diacritics arose from the gradual divergence between spelling and pronunciation.\n\nThe majuscule, i.e., a system where text is written entirely in capital letters, was used until the 8th century, when the minuscule polytonic supplanted it.\n\nBy the Byzantine period, the modern rule which turns an acute accent (\"oxeia\") on the last syllable into a grave accent (\"bareia\")—except before a punctuation sign or an enclitic—had been firmly established. Certain authors have argued that the grave originally denoted the absence of accent; the modern rule is, in their view, a purely orthographic convention. Originally, certain proclitic words lost their accent before another word and received the grave, and later this was generalized to all words in the orthography. Others—drawing on, for instance, evidence from ancient Greek music—consider that the grave was \"linguistically real\" and expressed a word-final modification of the acute pitch.\n\nIn the later development of the language, the ancient pitch accent was replaced by an intensity or stress accent, making the three types of accent identical, and the sound became silent.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century (official since the 1960s), the grave was replaced by the acute, and the iota subscript and the breathings on the rho were abolished, except in printed texts. Greek typewriters from that era did not have keys for the grave accent or the iota subscript, and these diacritics were also not taught in primary schools where instruction was in Demotic.\n\nFollowing the official adoption of the Demotic form of the language, the monotonic orthography was imposed by law in 1982. The latter uses only the acute accent (or sometimes a vertical bar, intentionally distinct from any of the traditional accents) and diaeresis and omits the breathings. This simplification has been criticized on the grounds that polytonic orthography provides a cultural link to the past.\n\nSome individuals, institutions, and publishers continue to prefer the polytonic system (with or without grave accent), though an official reintroduction of the polytonic system does not seem probable. The Greek Orthodox church, the daily newspaper \"Estia,\" as well as books written in \"Katharevousa\" continue to use the polytonic orthography. Though the polytonic system was not used in Classical Greece, these critics argue that modern Greek, as a continuation of Byzantine and post-medieval Greek, should continue their writing conventions.\n\nSome textbooks of Ancient Greek for foreigners have retained the breathings, but dropped all the accents in order to simplify the task for the learner.\n\nPolytonic Greek uses many different diacritics in several categories. At the time of Ancient Greek, each of these marked a significant distinction in pronunciation.\n\nMonotonic orthography for Modern Greek uses only two diacritics, the \"tonos\" and \"diaeresis\" (sometimes used in combination) that have significance in pronunciation. Initial is no longer pronounced, and so the rough and smooth breathings are no longer necessary. The unique pitch patterns of the three accents have disappeared, and only a stress accent remains. The iota subscript was a diacritic invented to mark an etymological vowel that was no longer pronounced, so it was dispensed with as well.\nThe transliteration of Greek names follows Latin transliteration of Ancient Greek; modern transliteration is different, and does not distinguish many letters and digraphs that have merged by iotacism.\n\nThe accents (, singular: ) are placed on an accented vowel or on the last of the two vowels of a diphthong (ά, but αί) and indicated pitch patterns in Ancient Greek. The precise nature of the patterns is not certain, but the general nature of each is known.\n\nThe acute accent ( or \"high\")—\"—marked high pitch on a short vowel or rising pitch on a long vowel.\n\nThe acute is also used on the first of two (or occasionally three) successive vowels in Modern Greek to indicate that they are pronounced together as a stressed diphthong.\n\nThe grave accent ( or \"low\", modern \"varia\")—\"—marked normal or low pitch.\n\nThe grave was originally written on all unaccented syllables, but now only replaces the acute at the end of a word if another accented word follows immediately without punctuation.\n\nThe circumflex ()—\"—marked high and falling pitch within one syllable. In distinction to the angled Latin circumflex, the Greek circumflex is printed in the form of either a tilde or an inverted breve. It was also known as \"oxýbarys\" \"high-low\" or \"acute-grave\", and its original form (like a caret: ^ ) was from a combining of the acute and grave diacritics. Because of its compound nature, it only appeared on long vowels or diphthongs.\n\nThe breathings were written over a vowel or \"r\".\n\nThe rough breathing (; Latin )—\"—indicates a voiceless glottal fricative () before the vowel in Ancient Greek. In Greek grammar, this is known as aspiration. This is different from aspiration in phonetics, which applies to consonants, not vowels.\n\nThe smooth breathing (; Latin )—\"—marked the absence of .\n\nA double rho in the middle of a word was originally written with smooth breathing on the first rho and rough breathing on the second one (διάῤῥοια). In Latin, this was transcribed as \"rrh\" (\"diarrhoea\" or \"diarrhea\").\n\nThe coronis () marks a vowel contracted by crasis. It was formerly an apostrophe placed after the contracted vowel, but is now placed over the vowel and is identical to the smooth breathing. Unlike the smooth breathing, it often occurs inside a word.\n\nThe iota subscript ()—\"—is placed under the long vowels ᾱ, η, and ω to mark the ancient long diphthongs ᾱι, ηι, and ωι, in which the ι is no longer pronounced.\n\nNext to a capital, the iota subscript is usually written as a lower-case letter (Αι), in which case it is called iota adscript ().\n\nIn Ancient Greek, the diaeresis ( or )—\"—appears on the letters and to show that a pair of vowel letters is pronounced separately, rather than as a diphthong.\n\nIn Modern Greek, the diaeresis usually indicates that two successive vowels are pronounced separately (as in , \"I trick, mock\"), but occasionally, it marks vowels that are pronounced together as an unstressed diphthong rather than as a digraph (as in , \"I boycott\"). The distinction between two separate vowels and an unstressed diphthong is not always clear, although two separate vowels are far more common.\n\nThe diaeresis can be combined with the acute, grave and circumflex but never with breathings, since the letter with the diaeresis cannot be the first vowel of the word.\n\nIn Modern Greek, the combination of the acute and diaeresis indicates a stressed vowel after a hiatus.\n\nIn textbooks and dictionaries of Ancient Greek, the macron—\"—and breve—\"—are often used over , , and to indicate that they are long or short, respectively.\n\nIn some modern non-standard orthographies of Greek dialects, such as Cypriot Greek and Griko, a caron (ˇ) may be used on some consonants to show a palatalized pronunciation. They are not encoded as precombined characters in Unicode, so they are typed by adding the to the Greek letter. Latin diacritics on Greek letters may not be supported by many fonts, and as a fall-back a caron may be replaced by an iota ⟨ι⟩ following the consonant.\n\nExamples of Greek letters with a combining caron and their pronunciation: ζ̌ /ʒ/, κ̌ /c/ or /t͡ʃ/, λ̌ /ʎ/, ν̌ /ɲ/, ξ̌ /kʃ/, π̌ /pʲ/, σ̌ ς̌ /ʃ/, τ̌ /c/, τζ̌ /t͡ʃ/ or /d͡ʒ/, τσ̌ τς̌ /t͡ʃ/ or /t͡ʃː/, ψ̌ /pʃ/.\n\nThe diacritics are written above lower-case letters and at the upper left of capital letters. In the case of a diphthong or a digraph, the second vowel takes the diacritics. A breathing diacritic is written to the left of an acute or grave accent but below a circumflex. Accents are written above a diaeresis or between its two dots. When a word is written entirely in capital letters, diacritics are far less used; the word  (or), is an exception to this rule because of the need to distinguish it from the nominative feminine article . Diacritics can be found above capital letters in medieval texts. The diaeresis is always written.\n\nThere have been problems in representing polytonic Greek on computers, and in displaying polytonic Greek on computer screens and printouts, but these have largely been overcome by the advent of Unicode and appropriate fonts.\n\nWhile the \"tónos\" of monotonic orthography looks similar to the \"oxeîa\" of polytonic orthography in most fonts, Unicode has historically separate symbols for letters with these diacritics. For example, the monotonic \"Greek small letter alpha with \"tónos\"\" is at U+03AC, while the polytonic \"Greek small letter alpha with \"oxeîa\"\" is at U+1F71. The monotonic and polytonic accent however have been \"de jure\" equivalent since 1986, and accordingly the \"oxeîa\" diacritic in Unicode decomposes canonically to the monotonic \"tónos\"—both are underlyingly treated as equivalent to the multiscript acute accent, U+0301, since letters with \"oxia\" decompose to letters with \"tonos\", which decompose in turn to base letter plus multiscript acute accent. For example:\nU+1F71 GREEK SMALL LETTER ALPHA WITH OXIA\n➔ U+03AC GREEK SMALL LETTER ALPHA WITH TONOS\n➔ U+03B1 GREEK SMALL LETTER ALPHA, U+0301 COMBINING ACUTE ACCENT.\n\nBelow are the accented characters provided in Unicode. In the uppercase letters, the iota adscript may appear as subscript depending on font.\n\n\nGeneral information:\n\nPolytonic Greek fonts:\n\nHow-to guides for polytonic keyboard layouts:\n"}
{"id": "41310602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41310602", "title": "Grundschrift", "text": "Grundschrift\n\nGrundschrift (\"base font\", literally \"ground script\") is a simplified form of handwriting adopted by Hamburg schools, and it is currently endorsed by the German National Primary Schoolteachers' Union.\n\nIf nationally adopted, it would replace the three different German cursives currently being taught in schools: the (introduced in 1953), the (1968), and the (1969), providing a standardized system of handwriting in German school systems.\n\nGrundschrift letters are written separately as block letters as opposed to cursive script, in which letters are conjoined together in a flowing motion.\n\nOne of the most important critics of the Grundschrift is Ute Andresen. The former president of the German Society for Reading and Writing (1999 to 2002) argues that \"children can not teach themselves to write.\" The introduction of the basic inscription would mean abolishing cursive handwriting. This is \"putting a cultural technique at risk, the ability to write a common readable font \". Andresen contradicts in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung interview the statement of the Grundschulverband that the Grundschrift is a connected spelling. \"That's wrong. The basic inscription is a modular font, which means the letters are juxtaposed.\" Andresen is et al. supported by the writer Cornelia Funke. \"To master a non-cursive handwriting does not suffice as a script, in my opinion. It does not flow like cursive and is therefore much slower. A flowing script, on the other hand, promotes the flow of thought - and at the same time is so individual that one is completely at one's own.\"\n\nIn a series of articles for the taz, Andresen already pointed out that learning a bound script is a fundamental learning process for every child. Failing to learn a script increases the risk of bad education. In this way, it occupies the position of Wilhelm Topsch against the . The Oldenburger education scientist has proven in 1996 that there were no other scientific reports for the introduction of these in the 1970s than those of their inventor Heinrich Grünewald.\n\n"}
{"id": "50221650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50221650", "title": "Gurtam", "text": "Gurtam\n\nGurtam (belarusian “\"гуртам\"” — together) is a Belarusian software development company and a service provider in real time GPS monitoring, vehicle telematics and fleet management solutions. Company's main products are:\n\nAs of April 2018 more than 1 500 000 objects worldwide were monitored by Wialon. The business network of the company involves over 950 fleet tracking service providers in more than 130 countries. According to the annual telematics market research by Omnicomm, Gurtam's market share in satellite monitoring solutions for CIS countries is 36%. \n\nThe company develops several directions:\n\n\nThe most popular Gurtam services are Wialon Hosting (SaaS) and Wialon Local (server-based solution). \nThe company has also developed GPS-Trace — a free service for personal tracking. It’s particularly used to monitor the location of employees, relatives and domestic animals.\n\nGurtam constantly participates in industrial expos and events worldwide including CeBIT, GSMA Mobile World Congress, Securex South Africa, Expo Seguridad Mexico, CTIA, GITEX, Telematics Conference SE Europe etc.\n\nSince 2017 Gurtam is focused on the active development and the implementation of the back-end product flespi — PaaS solution offered for managing telematics data. By the moment flespi was released no other counterparts existed.\n\nIn 2009 the company provided Wialon software for vehicle tracking at the international automobile race “A National Sport – Bridge of Friendship”. Further on the company cooperates with other automobile racing coordinators, including those engaged in “Beijing-Paris” multi-stage rally, Can-Am Trophy Russia open off-road ATV-series, “Ukraine Trophy 2012” trophy-raid.\n\nIn 2009 Gurtam released a cloud version of the Wialon Hosting satellite monitoring system.\n\nSince August 2009 Gurtam has become a member of the Oracle company partner network.\n\nIn 2010 Gurtam started cooperation with MTS Belarus in the area of data communication via GPRS, SMS, MMS and CSD. Aliaksandr Kuushynau, Head of Wialon Division claimed the issue of lobbying the interests of several companies in the Russian market of satellite monitoring. Soon after that Gurtam appeared to be one of the founders of the Navitoring international professional community with a restrain on unfair competition being one of its core goals.\n\nAnnually the company holds partner conferences in Minsk, Belarus to gather major telematics community integrators and GPS/GLONASS hardware manufacturers.\n\nIn 2011 more than 50 Gurtam dealers addressed to the governments of the Republic of Belarus, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Russia claiming recognition of June 2 as the professional holiday for satellite monitoring and navigation. The day has been celebrated by the professionals in the area of GPS and GLONASS technologies since 2012.\n\nWialon Local was released in 2014 being a server-based version with characteristics conforming to those of the cloud software version.\n\nIn 2014 Gurtam arranged Kilimanjaro expedition to test hardware and proprietary tracking system in extreme conditions.\n\nAccording to Berg Insight market research agency, Wialon was recognized a leading satellite monitoring system in the CIS and the Russian Federation in 2014 and 2015.\n\nIn 2015 Gurtam released a video in support of the Belarusian language. 32 partnering companies were involved worldwide.\n\nAs reported by Capterra, in 2016 Wialon was ranked 4th among the most popular fleet monitoring systems.\n\nIn 2017 Gurtam adds a new module to Wialon designed for passenger transportation. Originally created for school buses monitoring, the module is being used in other relevant fields.\n"}
{"id": "2320803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2320803", "title": "Heroic drama", "text": "Heroic drama\n\nHeroic drama is a type of play popular during the Restoration era in England, distinguished by both its verse structure and its subject matter. The subgenre of heroic drama evolved through several works of the middle to later 1660s; John Dryden's \"The Indian Emperour\" (1665) and Roger Boyle's \"The Black Prince\" (1667) were key developments.\n\nThe term \"heroic drama\" was invented by Dryden for his play, \"The Conquest of Granada\" (1670). For the \"Preface\" to the printed version of the play, Dryden argued that the drama was a species of \"epic poetry\" for the stage, that, as the epic was to other poetry, so the heroic drama was to other plays. Consequently, Dryden derived a series of rules for this type of play.\n\nFirst, the play should be composed in heroic verse (closed couplets in iambic pentameter). Second, the play must focus on a subject that pertains to national foundations, mythological events, or important and grand matters. Third, the hero of the heroic drama must be powerful, decisive, and, like Achilles, dominating even when wrong. \"The Conquest of Granada\" followed all of these rules. The story was that of the national foundation of Spain (and King Charles II was known to be fond of Spanish plays), and the hero, Almanzor, was a man of great martial prowess and temperament.\n\nDryden's \"Conquest of Granada\" is often considered one of the better heroic tragedies, but his highest achievement is his adaptation (which he called \"All for Love\", 1678) of Shakespeare's \"Anthony and Cleopatra\" to the heroic formula. Other heroic dramatists were Nathaniel Lee (\"The Rival Queens\") and Thomas Otway, whose \"Venice Preserved\" is a fine tragedy that transcends the usual limitations of the form. We also owe indirectly to heroic tragedy two very amusing parodies of the type: the Duke of Buckingham's \"The Rehearsal\" and Henry Fielding's \"The Tragedy of Tragedies, or the Life and Death of Tom Thumb the Great\"\n\n\"Those who associate 'heroic drama' primarily with the use of the 'heroic couplet' usually set as its extent the years from 1664 to 1678. This, certainly, is its period of fullest development and authority. Those who prefer to accentuate the elements suggested by the very term 'heroic' rather than the strict rhymed verse form are willing to admit wider limits.\" Restoration plays by Sir William Davenant, Thomas Otway, Nathaniel Lee, John Crowne, Elkanah Settle, and John Banks, and later works by Nicholas Rowe and Joseph Addison, have been included in tighter or looser definitions of heroic drama.\n\nToday, drama is divided up into numerous subgenres; Dryden, however, worked from Classical critics. There was little dramatic critical theory for him to appeal to, and the new rules brought over from France (particularly those of Corneille and Boileau) did not match English theatrical history or practice. The emphasis on unities and on maintaining only Classically proscribed dramatic forms also came from Thomas Rymer, who condemned the heterogeneity of the stage. Aristotle had only spoken of satire, epic, and tragedy, and Horace also wrote only of comedy, tragedy and satire, and so Dryden was seeking to square actual theatrical practice with an ancient framework for literature. He was attempting his own neo-classicism. The First Folio of Shakespeare had divided Shakespeare's plays into \"history,\" \"tragedy,\" and \"comedy,\" but these terms were stretched. Dryden, therefore, implicitly recognizes that drama had moved into the territory of other types of poetry, but he strives to restrain that freedom by reforming the stage to a true and epic subject matter. \n\nGeorge Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham and others satirized heroic drama in \"The Rehearsal\". The satire was successful enough that heroic drama largely disappeared afterward. Buckingham attacked the stupidity of blustering, military heroes, as well as the apparent self-importance of attempting a dramatic entertainment about the serious subjects of military and national history.\n\nBuckingham's criticism of Dryden in \"The Rehearsal\" is partly Dryden's bombastic verse but, more pointedly, Dryden's \"personal\" interest in creating a \"pure\" drama. The character of Bayes is ludicrous more for his hubris in damning actual plays in favor of imagined ones than he is for being a poetaster.\n"}
{"id": "3554037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3554037", "title": "Immediato v. Rye Neck School District", "text": "Immediato v. Rye Neck School District\n\nImmediato v. Rye Neck School District, 73 F.3d 454 (2d. Cir. 1996) was a Second Circuit Court of Appeals case involving the petitioner, a boy named Daniel Immediato and his parents, Eugene and Diane Immediato, against the respondent, Rye Neck School District in the village of Mamaroneck, New York. The court held that the school district did not violate Immediato's rights by requiring him to perform community service.\n\nDaniel Immediato felt that the school district's policy of establishing mandatory community service was in violation of his 13th and 14th Amendment rights. The school district required that 40 hours of community service be completed to graduate with no exceptions. Regulations on what could be done for community service were fairly lax, as all work for non-profit organizations with the exception of religious organizations that did no charitable work was accepted as community service. As part of a mandatory senior-year course, students had to complete a form about what community service they did and how it benefited them, and afterwards discuss it with the class. Certain goals had to be reached by certain periods of the senior year.\n\nImmediato brought forth the following charges: \"Specifically, they assert that the program: (1) imposes involuntary servitude upon Daniel, in violation of the Thirteenth Amendment; (2) infringes on Daniel's parents' Fourteenth Amendment right to direct his upbringing and education; (3) infringes on Daniel's personal liberty, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; and (4) violates Daniel's right to privacy, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.\"\n\nThe school district denied that any violation was made and argued that the court should abstain because of the ruling of \"Burford v. Sun Oil Co.\" (that federal court should not hear any case involving complicated state laws that deal with policy issues). The court decided against this \"Burford\" abstention but found that none of the charges were true. Immediato proceeded to appeal using the same charges. Immediato's arguments were found to be invalid, and the court stuck with their ruling that the school district did not violate any of Daniel or his parents' Constitutional rights in imposing community service.\n\n"}
{"id": "9501407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9501407", "title": "Indian Institute Library", "text": "Indian Institute Library\n\nThe Indian Institute Library is a dependent library of the Bodleian and part of the University of Oxford in Oxford, England. Opened in 1886, the library specialises in the history and culture of South Asia, Tibet and the Himalayas. The Indian Institute and its library were originally based in the building now occupied by the History Faculty Library, on the corner of Holywell and Catte Street. (The History Faculty moved to a location on George Street in 2007, although the History Faculty Library remained in the old Indian Institute building) Traces of the building's original function are still visible, including the gilded weathervane which depicts an elephant with a howdah.\n\nIn 1968, the library was relocated to a newly constructed 'penthouse' on the roof of the New Bodleian building. The move was not without controversy, since the original building had been constructed with the express intention of providing a permanent home to the institute.\n\nThe library remains on the top floor of the Bodleian, which results in the strange situation of a lending library being based within a reference library. The library's collection is of international importance and includes over 100,000 volumes. Around 60% of these are catalogued on OLIS, the Oxford University library catalogue. Anyone wishing to use the library must either be a student at the University of Oxford, or obtain a reader's card from the Bodleian Library. The library's reading room was closed on September 10, 2010. To access the books, readers have to request their delivery to other reading rooms of the Bodleian library.\n"}
{"id": "25590206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25590206", "title": "Inflicted insight", "text": "Inflicted insight\n\nInflicted insight is a possible consequence for subjects participating in certain kinds of research. It occurs when the subject is given insight into his or her flaws through his or her participation in an experiment, often unexpectedly or causing emotional pain. It is especially likely in social and psychological research and especially when that research involves deception of the subject by the researcher.\n\nThe Milgram experiment is a well-known example of an experiment with a very high potential for inflicted insight. Through their participation in the experiment, many subjects realized that they were capable of committing acts of extreme violence on other human beings. After having this realization, many subjects experienced prolonged symptoms of anxiety.\n\nDeceptive debriefing is one method for avoiding inflicted insight in psychological experiments, although it is considered ethically questionable in and of itself.\n\nThe American Psychological Association's guidelines for ethical experimentation strongly discourage experiments where deceptive debriefing is the only alternative to inflicted insight. However, such experiments may be deemed ethically acceptable if they are counterbalanced by other ethical concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "19387722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19387722", "title": "Inhabited initial", "text": "Inhabited initial\n\nAn inhabited initial is an initial, an enlarged letter at the beginning of a paragraph or other section of text that contains an illustration of human or animal figures within the letter. It is similar to a historiated initial; however, the figures in historiated initials show an identifiable scene or story, while the figures in inhabited initials do not show a narrative. Figures in inhabited initials may be related to the contents of the text, but do not have to be. They may be purely decorative instead.\n"}
{"id": "372347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372347", "title": "Jacksonian democracy", "text": "Jacksonian democracy\n\nJacksonian democracy is a 19th-century political philosophy in the United States that espoused greater democracy for the common man as that term was then defined. Originating with the seventh President Andrew Jackson and his supporters, it became the nation's dominant political worldview for a generation.\n\nThis era, called the Jacksonian Era (or Second Party System) by historians and political scientists, lasted roughly from Jackson's 1828 election as president until slavery became the dominant issue in 1854 and the American Civil War dramatically reshaped American politics. It emerged when the long-dominant Democratic-Republican Party became factionalized around 1824. Jackson's supporters began to form the modern Democratic Party and rivals John Quincy Adams and Henry Clay, created the National Republican Party, which would soon combine with other anti-Jackson elements to form the Whig Party.\n\nBroadly speaking, the era was characterized by a democratic spirit and built upon Jackson's equal political policy (subsequent to ending what he termed a \"monopoly\" of government by elites). Even before the Jacksonian era began, suffrage had been extended to a majority of white male adult citizens, a result the Jacksonians celebrated. Jacksonian democracy also promoted the strength of the presidency and executive branch at the expense of Congress, while also seeking to broaden the public's participation in government. The Jacksonians demanded elected (not appointed) judges and rewrote many state constitutions to reflect the new values. In national terms, they favored geographical expansion, justifying it in terms of manifest destiny. There was usually a consensus among both Jacksonians and Whigs that battles over slavery should be avoided.\n\nJackson's expansion of democracy was largely limited to Americans of European descent and voting rights were extended to adult white males only. There was little or no progress (and in some cases, regression) for the rights of African Americans and Native Americans. Jackson's biographer Robert V. Remini argues: \n\nWilliam S. Belko in 2015 summarizes \"the core concepts underlying Jacksonian Democracy\" as:\n\nArthur M. Schlesinger Jr., in 1945 argues Jacksonian democracy was built on the following:\n\nAn important movement in the period from 1800 to 1830—before the Jacksonians were organized—was the expansion of the right to vote toward including all men. Older states with property restrictions dropped them, namely all but Rhode Island, Virginia and North Carolina by the mid 1820s. No new states had property qualifications although three had adopted tax-paying qualifications—Ohio, Louisiana and Mississippi, of which only in Louisiana were these significant and long lasting. The process was peaceful and widely supported, except in the state of Rhode Island. In Rhode Island, the Dorr Rebellion of the 1840s demonstrated that the demand for equal suffrage was broad and strong, although the subsequent reform included a significant property requirement for anyone resident but born outside of the United States. However, free black men lost voting rights in several states during this period.\n\nThe fact that a man was now legally allowed to vote did not necessarily mean he routinely voted. He had to be pulled to the polls, which became the most important role of the local parties. They systematically sought out potential voters and brought them to the polls. Voter turnout soared during the 1830s, reaching about 80% of adult male population in the 1840 presidential election. Tax-paying qualifications remained in only five states by 1860 – Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Delaware and North Carolina.\n\nOne innovative strategy for increasing voter participation and input was developed outside the Jacksonian camp. Prior to the presidential election of 1832, the Anti-Masonic Party conducted the nation's first presidential nominating convention. Held in Baltimore, Maryland, September 26–28, 1831, it transformed the process by which political parties select their presidential and vice-presidential candidates.\n\nThe period from 1824 to 1832 was politically chaotic. The Federalist Party and the First Party System were dead and with no effective opposition, the old Democratic-Republican Party withered away. Every state had numerous political factions, but they did not cross state lines. Political coalitions formed and dissolved and politicians moved in and out of alliances.\n\nMost former Republicans supported Jackson, while others such as Henry Clay opposed him. Most former Federalists, such as Daniel Webster, opposed Jackson, although some like James Buchanan supported him. In 1828, John Quincy Adams pulled together a network of factions called the National Republicans, but he was defeated by Jackson. By the late 1830s, the Jacksonian Democrats and the Whigs politically battled it out nationally and in every state.\n\nThe spirit of Jacksonian democracy animated the party from the early 1830s to the 1850s, shaping the era, with the Whig Party the main opposition. The new Democratic Party became a coalition of poor farmers, city-dwelling laborers and Irish Catholics.\n\nThe new party was pulled together by Martin Van Buren in 1828 as Jackson crusaded against the corruption of President John Quincy Adams. The new party (which did not get the name Democrats until 1834) swept to a landslide. As Mary Beth Norton explains regarding 1828:\n\nJacksonians believed the people's will had finally prevailed. Through a lavishly financed coalition of state parties, political leaders, and newspaper editors, a popular movement had elected the president. The Democrats became the nation's first well-organized national party.\n\nThe platforms, speeches and editorials were founded upon a broad consensus among Democrats. As Norton et al. explain:\n\nThe Democrats represented a wide range of views but shared a fundamental commitment to the Jeffersonian concept of an agrarian society. They viewed a central government as the enemy of individual liberty and they believed that government intervention in the economy benefited special-interest groups and created corporate monopolies that favored the rich. They sought to restore the independence of the individual—the artisan and the ordinary farmer—by ending federal support of banks and corporations and restricting the use of paper currency.\n\nJackson vetoed more legislation than all previous presidents combined. The long-term effect was to create the modern strong presidency. Jackson and his supporters also opposed reform as a movement. Reformers eager to turn their programs into legislation called for a more active government. However, Democrats tended to oppose programs like educational reform and the establishment of a public education system. For instance, they believed that public schools restricted individual liberty by interfering with parental responsibility and undermined freedom of religion by replacing church schools.\n\nJackson looked at the Indian question in terms of military and legal policy, not as a problem due to their race. In 1813, Jackson adopted and treated as his own son a three-year-old Indian orphan—seeing in him a fellow orphan that was \"so much like myself I feel an unusual sympathy for him\". In legal terms, when it became a matter of state sovereignty versus tribal sovereignty he went with the states and moved the Indians to fresh lands with no white rivals in what became known as the Trail of Tears.\n\nAmong the leading followers was Stephen A. Douglas, senator from Illinois, who was the key player in the passage of the compromise of 1850, and was a leading contender for the 1852 Democratic presidential nomination. According to his biographer Robert W. Johanssen:\n\nDouglas was preeminently a Jacksonian, and his adherence to the tenants of what became known as Jacksonian democracy grew as his own career developed. ... Popular rule, or what he called would later call popular sovereignty, lay at the base of his political structure. Like most Jacksonians, Douglas believed that the people spoke through the majority, that the majority will was the expression of the popular will.\n\nJackson fulfilled his promise of broadening the influence of the citizenry in government, although not without vehement controversy over his methods.\n\nJacksonian policies included ending the bank of the United States, expanding westward and removing American Indians from the Southeast. Jackson was denounced as a tyrant by opponents on both ends of the political spectrum such as Henry Clay and John C. Calhoun. This led to the rise of the Whig Party.\n\nJackson created a spoils system to clear out elected officials in government of an opposing party and replace them with his supporters as a reward for their electioneering. With Congress controlled by his enemies, Jackson relied heavily on the power of the veto to block their moves.\n\nOne of the most important of these was the Maysville Road veto in 1830. A part of Clay's American System, the bill would have allowed for federal funding of a project to construct a road linking Lexington and the Ohio River, the entirety of which would be in the state of Kentucky, Clay's home state. His primary objection was based on the local nature of the project. He argued it was not the federal government's job to fund projects of such a local nature and or those lacking a connection to the nation as a whole. The debates in Congress reflected two competing visions of federalism. The Jacksonians saw the union strictly as the cooperative aggregation of the individual states, while the Whigs saw the entire nation as a distinct entity.\n\nCarl Lane argues \"securing national debt freedom was a core element of Jacksonian democracy.\" Paying off the national debt was a high priority which would make a reality of the Jeffersonian vision of America truly free from rich bankers, self-sufficient in world affairs, virtuous at home, and administered by a small government not prone to financial corruption or payoffs.\n\nWhat became of Jacksonian Democracy, according to Sean Wilentz was diffusion. Many ex-Jacksonians turned their crusade against the Money Power into one against the Slave Power and became Republicans. He points to the struggle over the Wilmot Proviso of 1846, the Free Soil Party revolt of 1848, and the mass defections from the Democrats in 1854 over the Kansas–Nebraska Act. Others Jacksonian leaders such as Chief Justice Roger B. Taney endorsed slavery through the 1857 Dred Scott decision. Southern Jacksonians overwhelmingly endorsed secession in 1861, apart from a few opponents led by Andrew Johnson. In the North, Jacksonians Stephen A. Douglas and the War Democrats fiercely opposed secession, while Franklin Pierce, James Buchanan and the Copperheads did not.\n\nIn addition to Jackson, his second Vice President and one of the key organizational leaders of the Jacksonian Democratic Party, Martin Van Buren, served as President. Van Buren was defeated in the next election by William Henry Harrison. Harrison died just 30 days into his term and his Vice President John Tyler quickly reached accommodation with the Jacksonians. Tyler was then succeeded by James K. Polk, a Jacksonian who won the election of 1844 with Jackson's endorsement. Franklin Pierce had been a supporter of Jackson as well. James Buchanan served in Jackson's administration as Minister to Russia and as Polk's Secretary of State, but he did not pursue Jacksonian policies. Finally, Andrew Johnson, who had been a strong supporter of Jackson, became President following the assassination of Abraham Lincoln in 1865, but by then Jacksonian democracy had been pushed off the stage of American politics.\n\nPresident Donald Trump has also been characterized as a Jacksonian. Notably, he had the portrait of Andrew Jackson moved into the Oval Office and has criticized the movement to replace Jackson's portrait on the $20 bill with that of Harriet Tubman.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2681148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2681148", "title": "Labor certification", "text": "Labor certification\n\nLabor certification (not to be confused with the Labor Condition Application - LCA) is a United States of America immigration process step. Its stated goal is to \"protect U.S. workers and the U.S. labor market by ensuring that foreign workers seeking immigrant visa classifications are not displacing equally qualified U.S. workers\".\n\nThere are several options available to US employers who wish to hire foreign, non-immigrant workers on a temporary but long-term basis: H-1B visas, L-1 visas, TN status and other options. These temporary options are often sufficient to meet the needs of employer and employee. When a US employer wishes to hire the services of the foreign worker on a permanent basis, however, a complex sponsorship process for the green card begins, a process that can take years. Generally (although not always) the first step in that process is labor certification. Labor certification is a process of proving that there are no qualified US workers for the position being offered. If there are qualified US workers - in fact, even generally speaking if there are even \"minimally qualified\" US workers - then the foreign worker cannot be offered the position on a permanent basis. This does not necessarily mean that the foreign worker will be immediately replaced by a qualified US worker, though. The foreign worker can still serve out the remainder of their existing US temporary visa, and may well be able to re-apply for labor certification and be approved. But it does create a substantial inconvenience for the US employer who wishes to hire a foreign worker, which does provide some protection to US workers, although the process is controversial.\n\nThe original labor certification process, used exclusively up until about 1998, involved a lengthy interview process, whereby instructions were provided after filing the case as to how the employer was to go about recruiting for the position. After complying with those instructions, the employer needed to persuasively argue why any US applicants for the position were unqualified - otherwise the position would be denied. Beginning in 1998, a more streamlined approach called \"Reduction in Recruitment\" (RIR) was introduced. Under RIR, the sequence of events was reversed: the employer first did the recruiting, and then filed the case with evidence that no minimally qualified US workers could be found.\n\nRIR tended to speed processing times up somewhat, so that labor certification times which were previously measured in years began to be measured in months. Both regular and RIR labor certification involved filing first with the Department of Labor for the individual state where the job was located (the individual state presumably being most familiar with local labor market conditions) and then, if approved at the state level, the case was then transferred to the federal Department of Labor for final approval.\n\nIn March 2005 a completely electronic labor certification system, PERM (Program Electronic Review Management) came into use. PERM is intended to reduce labor certification times to under 60 days. However, PERM may be creating as many backlogs as it is intended to solve. Because of congressionally mandated annual quotas, there may not be enough visas available to grant green cards to everyone who is approved by PERM, which may have played a role in the retrogression of priority dates on September 13, 2005.\n\nThe standards used in making labor certification determinations under the PERM system will be based on:\n\n1) whether there are not sufficient United States workers who are able, willing, qualified and available; \n2) whether the employment of the alien will have an adverse effect on the wages and working conditions of United States workers similarly employed; and\n3) whether the employer has met the procedural requirements of the regulations.\n\nThe employer has the option of filing an PERM application electronically (using web-based forms and instructions) or by mail. However, the Department of Labor recommends that employers file electronically. Not only is electronic filing faster, but it will also ensure the employer has provided all required information, as an electronic application can not be submitted if the required fields are not completed. Employers will not be permitted to submit PERM applications by FAX.\n\nThe employer must recruit under the standards for professional occupations, if the occupation involved is on the list of occupations, published in the PERM regulation, for which a bachelors or higher degree is a customary requirement.\n\nFor all other occupations not normally requiring a bachelor's or higher degree, employers can simply recruit under the requirements for nonprofessional occupations. Although the occupation involved in a labor certification application may be a nonprofessional occupation, the regulations do not prohibit employers from conducting more recruitment than is specified for such occupations. Therefore, if the employer is uncertain whether an occupation is considered professional or not, the employer is advised to conduct recruitment for a professional occupation.\n\nAs with many immigration procedures, labor certification tends to be controversial. Its backers argue that it is a rigorous procedure for determining that only foreign workers who truly have skills needed by the US labor market and not readily available locally are hired. Its critics, however, say that US employers will first hire a foreigner on a long-term temporary visa, and then try to tailor the job description so that that foreigner is the only person who could possibly be hired - thus gaming the labor certification process to guarantee a favorable outcome. However, the job requirements, as described by the petitioning employer in the labor certification application, must represent the employer’s actual minimum requirements for the job opportunity. Those job requirements described on a labor certification application are reviewed and evaluated closely by the Department of Labor in accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations that sets forth the standards for determining the appropriate requirements for a job opportunity. Ultimately, the employer must prove that they have not hired workers with less training or experience for jobs substantially comparable to that involved in the job opportunity.\n\nLabor certification should not be confused with the Labor Condition Application, the corresponding process for temporary work visas. The differences are presented in table form below:\n\n"}
{"id": "204159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204159", "title": "List of U.S. states and territories by unemployment rate", "text": "List of U.S. states and territories by unemployment rate\n\nThe list of U.S. states and territories by unemployment rate compares the seasonally adjusted unemployment rates by state and territory, sortable by name, rate, and change. Data are provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in its \"Geographic Profile of Employment and Unemployment\" publication.\nWhile the non-seasonally adjusted data reflects the actual unemployment rate, the seasonally adjusted data removes time from the equation.\n\nStatistic below: April 20, 2018 for March 2018 for all U.S. states and the District of Columbia. Data for Puerto Rico is from August 2018, data for the Virgin Islands is from July 2018, data for Guam is from March 2018, data for American Samoa is from 2012, and data for the Northern Mariana Islands is from April 2010. Because data for American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands is more than 5 years old, they are not ranked in the table below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24300636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24300636", "title": "Makes the Whole World Kin", "text": "Makes the Whole World Kin\n\n\"Makes the Whole World Kin\" is a short story written by O. Henry (a pen name for William Sydney Porter), allegedly at Pete's Tavern on Irving Place in New York City.\n\nThe story starts with a young thief walking through a neighbourhood, scouting for his next house. The thief is described as an ordinary man, with no extreme tendencies.\nOnce he finds a respectable house, the thief climbs inside through an open window. Once inside, he scouts for valuable items. He discovers, to his amazement, that a light had been left on inside one of the bedrooms. As he walks inside, he finds an old man lying in bed, asleep. The thief wakes the man and instructs him to raise his hands. The old man can only lift one arm and proceeds to inform the thief that he suffers from rheumatism. The thief, shocked at what he hears, lowers the gun and tells his victim that he as well, suffers from the disease. They proceed to exchange words of comfort about the haunting pain, and the young thief asks for tips to dull the swellings. Though both are filled with hope, the old man warns the thief that the pain only gets worse and he must find a way to cope with it, in his later years. The old man, suggests that he have a drink.\n\nThe young thief invites the old man for a drink at the local pub. He helps the old man get dressed and the two make their way for the bar. Outside the house, the old man realises that he has no money with him - the thief, kindly, offers to pay for the drinks.\n\nIn 1962, Leonid Gaidai made a feature-length film Strictly Business, made up of three short stories based on O. Henry. The second segment was \"Makes the Whole World Kin\".\n\nThe film starred Yuri Nikulin as the young thief, and Rostislav Plyatt as the old man.\n\nThis version of the film is shot in black and white and set during the early 1900s. The film uses the full dialogue from the original short story. Gaidai specifically chose actors with a more comedic background to satirize the pain that the thief and the old man have in common.\n\nIn 2009, Sanzhar Sultanov adapted the screenplay into a modern-day version of Makes the Whole World Kin.\n\nThe film starred Paul Calderón as the old man and Alex Mills as the young thief.\n\nThis version of the film is shot in color and set in modern-day times. Sultanov adapted the screenplay, making the dialogue more fitting to today's speech. Sultanov chose actors with a dramatic, method acting approach to display the truthful effect of rheumatic pain.\n\nIn William Shakespeare's \"Troilus and Cressida\", Act III, Scene iii - Ulysses, speaking to Achilles says that \"One Touch of Nature Makes the Whole World Kin\".\n\nIn this quote, Nature is defined as:\n\nThough this has become a famous speech of Ulysses and often quoted, it is a curious fact, and one on the whole redounding to the credit of humanity, that the line is never quoted in the sense in which Ulysses uses it.\n\n"}
{"id": "1055160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1055160", "title": "Malaria and the Caribbean", "text": "Malaria and the Caribbean\n\nThe effects of malaria in the Caribbean represent an important chapter of the history of the region, due to its effects on the colonization of the islands and the corresponding impact on society and economy.\n\nDuring the early exploration of the Caribbean islands, there was no immunity of the local nativa population against diseases which were brought by European and African immigrants. Although the Caribbean today is considered “a tropical paradise”, the islands contributed a perfect level of moisture and heat to facilitate the spread of viral and bacterial organisms that led to the death of a large number of people. Because of the rare contact between races in the 15th century complete immunities were unable to be developed and those that were still caused some to be at least mildly affected by the disease. \n\nFor example, before this time of exploration and travel, the Caribbean natives of the islands had never been exposed to malaria. Therefore, when the Europeans and African slaves began to inhabit the islands, the natives were greatly affected by it and died in astonishing numbers. Due to their genetics, the African slaves had somewhat of an advantage over the white, wealthy settlers: partial immunity was present to falciparum malaria. This malaria affected children and immigrants on some islands but not all. One contracts this disease by being bitten by an Anopheles mosquito which can be found on Africa and the Americas. Falciparum malaria sickens the human by attacking the human’s red blood cells and the parasite remains within the victim’s body for life which allows the cycle to continue. This malaria affected predominantly the adult European voyagers rather than predominantly the African slaves. \n\nThe Caribbean countries whose inhabitants were the most affected were the Greater Antilles islands and other humid islands like Martinique and Trinidad and Tobago. Because Anopheles mosquitoes thrive mostly in areas of humidity and water, the disease was not found on islands such as the Bahamas and Antigua. Serving as somewhat of an enemy on the islands, malaria continued to attack the white settlers and prevent them from reaching their ultimate goals of exploration and wealth. The Creoles felt, in this way, that diseases such as malaria were prevention tools from their territories being invaded by Europeans.\n\n"}
{"id": "5781256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5781256", "title": "Mark Falcoff", "text": "Mark Falcoff\n\nMark Falcoff (; born 1941) is an American scholar and policy consultant who has worked with a number of think tanks, such as the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), the Hoover Institution, and the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nFalcoff earned a B.A. in political science from the University of Missouri in 1963, and would later earn a Ph.D. and M.A. at Princeton University. He served as a consultant and staff member on a number of important committees and commissions, including the 1983 National Bipartisan Commission on Central America and the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. He has taught at the University of Illinois and the University of Oregon and lectured at several universities.\n\nThe focus of Falcoff's work is Latin America and related US policies. He has authored numerous publication on subjects ranging from the causes of the Juan Perón period of Argentine politics to the controversial US handover of the Panama Canal to Panama. Many of his books are published in conjunction with AEI; the latest of these is \"Cuba the Morning After: Confronting Castro's Legacy\", which attempts to challenge common assumptions pertaining to Cuba-United States relations and the impact on Cuba of Fidel Castro's eventual demise.\n\nIn a 2003 article for \"Commentary\", Falcoff defended former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger (who served as the head of the 1983 commission on Central America which Falcoff consulted) against claims, most notably made by Christopher Hitchens in \"The Trial of Henry Kissinger\", that Kissinger, as the US Secretary of State, was the chief architect for the Chilean coup of 1973, and subsequent atrocities committed by the forces of President Augusto Pinochet.\n\nFalcoff's articles have appeared in a number of influential newspapers and academic journals, such as \"The Washington Post\", \"The New Republic\", and \"Foreign Affairs\". He is currently Resident Scholar Emeritus of AEI.\n\n"}
{"id": "34004980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34004980", "title": "Modern Paganism in World Cultures", "text": "Modern Paganism in World Cultures\n\nModern Paganism in World Cultures: Comparative Perspectives is an academic anthology edited by the American religious studies scholar Michael F. Strmiska which was published by ABC-CLIO in 2005. Containing eight separate papers produced by various scholars working in the field of Pagan studies, the book examines different forms of contemporary Paganism as practiced in Europe and North America. \"Modern Paganism in World Cultures\" was published as a part of ABC-CLIO's series of books entitled 'Religion in Contemporary Cultures', in which other volumes were dedicated to religious movements like Buddhism and Islam.\n\nEdited by Strmiska, then a lecturer at Central Connecticut State University in New Britain, Connecticut, the volume contained contributions from scholars from a variety of academic backgrounds, some of whom were practicing Pagans themselves. In her paper, the American folklorist Sabina Magliocco discussed \"ethnic ambivalence\" amongst the Italian American community in regards to the relationship between Stregheria and Wicca, whilst the Irish folklorist Jenny Butler dealt with the place of contemporary Druidry in Ireland. In a paper co-written by Strmiska and Icelandic anthropologist Baldur A. Sigurvinsson, the religion of Asatru in both Iceland and the United States was compared, which is followed by a piece by British anthropologist Jenny Blain looking at the way in which British Heathens viewed sacred sites. The sixth paper, written by environmental studies scholar Adrian Ivakhiv, looked at Paganism in Ukraine, whilst the seventh, co-written once more by Strmiska, this time with humanities scholar Vilius Rudra Dundzila, looked at Romuva in both Lithuania and the U.S. The final paper, produced by military veteran Stephanie Urquhart, looked at the acceptance of Pagans in the U.S. military.\n\nAcademic reviews were largely positive, praising the various papers for expanding the knowledge of Pagan studies by focusing on less well known religions like Romuva and Asatru rather than Wicca, the dominant Pagan faith to which the majority of literature in the field of Pagan studies had been devoted up until that point.\n\nMichael Strmiska had gained an MA in the Religions of India from the University of Wisconsin-Madison before going on to gain a PhD in Religious Studies from Boston University. Proceeding to teach Comparative Religion and World History, he worked at universities in Lithuania, the United States and Japan, and at the time of \"Modern Paganism in World Cultures\"' publication was lecturing in World History at Central Connecticut State University.\n\nStrmiska decided to allow the contributing authors to choose whether they would use the term \"Pagan\" or \"Neopagan\" in reference to the contemporary religious movements, arguing that they should do so according to which term \"is best suited to their topics.\"\n\nIn his opening chapter, which shares its name with the book, Michael Strmiska discusses the significance of Paganism to the contemporary world, although notes that this volume deals specifically with the movement in Europe and North America, \"in the belief that this regional focus provides a coherent frame of discussion with a number of intriguing commonalities and contrasts without degenerating into a global encyclopaedia.\" Noting that earlier studies of Pagan studies had focused primarily on the religion of Wicca and on the Pagan movement in the U.S. and U.K., Strmiska explained that in this volume, he had widened the geographical scope by focusing on forms of Paganism other than Wicca and on the movement in other parts of Europe and North America, such as in Canada, Ireland and Iceland.\n\nProceeding to look at the various definitions of the terms \"Pagan\" and \"Neopagan\", Strmiska discusses why some contemporary westerners choose to adopt such terms when they have a pejorative meaning in western culture, concluding that not only was it an \"appealing marker\" in expressing their non-Christian beliefs, but that it also served to give them a sense of connection to ancient pre-Christian peoples and as \"a deliberate act of defiance\" against a Christian-dominated culture.\n\nThe second paper in the volume was provided by the American folklorist Sabina Magliocco, who had studied the Pagan community in the U.S. for a number of years, resulting in the publication of two books, \"Neo-pagan Sacred Art and Altars: Making Things Work\" (2002) and \"Witching Culture: Folklore and Neo-paganism in America\" (2004).\n\nIn the book's third paper, the Irish folklorist Jenny Butler, who was then studying for a PhD on Paganism in Ireland at the Department of Folklore and Ethnology at University College Cork and now based at the UCC's Department of Study of Religions, looked at the role of contemporary Druidry in the country.\n\nIn a highly positive review published in \"\", the religious studies scholar Nikki Bado-Fralick of Iowa State University described \"Modern Paganism in World Cultures\" as an \"engaging and insightful look into several under-reported forms of European and North American Contemporary Paganism\". Considering it to be \"extremely well written, accessible, and organized\", Bado-Fralick felt that the work made \"a delightful addition to the growing body of first-rate scholarship on Contemporary Paganism.\" Praising the use of maps in the book, she felt however that \"I found myself wishing for more detailed maps when authors referred to groups from specific counties or regional areas.\" Ultimately, Bado-Fralick considered the work to be \"securely placed to become a mainstay of the Pagan scholar's bookshelf.\"\n\nThe anthology was also reviewed by Robert Ellwood of the University of Southern California for the \"Nova Religio\" journal, who considered it notable that it focused primarily on non-Wiccan variants of Paganism. Considering the work to be a \"substantial contribution\" to contemporary religious studies, he notes that the price of the volume will put many individuals off of purchasing it, but that he hoped most major libraries would acquire a copy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5489370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5489370", "title": "Musasir", "text": "Musasir\n\nMuṣaṣir Assyrian and variants, including Mutsatsir, Akkadian for \"Exit of the Serpent/Snake\" ), in Urartian Ardini was an ancient city of Urartu, attested in Assyrian sources of the 9th and 8th centuries BC.\n\nIt was acquired by the Urartian King Ishpuini ca. 800 BC (see the Kelashin Stele). The city's tutelary deity was Ḫaldi.\nThe name Musasir in Akkadian means \"exit of the serpent\".\n\nThe city's location is not known with certainty, although there are a number of hypotheses, all in the general area of , in the Zagros south of Lake Urmia. François Thureau-Dangin tentatively located it at Mudjesir, 10 km west of Topzawa. Reza Heidari, an archaeologist of the \"Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization\" of Iran's West Azarbaijan Province claims Rabat Tepe near Sardasht, Iran as the location of Muṣaṣir.\nLynch claimed that it was close to the modern town of Rowanduz in Iraqi Kurdistan\nThe Musasir temple, built in 825 BC, was an important temple in Musasir, the holy city of Urartu. The Temple at Musasir appears in an Assyrian bas-relief which adorned the palace of King Sargon II at Khorsabad, to commemorate his victory over \"the seven kings of Urartu\" in 714 BC.\n\n(1802 - 1870) During the early 1850s, the British Assyrian Excavation Fund entered the field under William Kennett Loftus and many antiquities and accurate drawings of wall sculptures were apportioned between the British Museum and the Louvre. However, a convoy of antiquities was attacked by Arab robbers while being shipped down the Tigris River, and today lies buried somewhere in the bed of that river. That particular bas-relief was copied at its original location in the palace onto a drawing by Eugene Flandin(2) as Botta's chief artist.\n\nDuring this period of Assyrian campaigns, the northern Araratian regions were governed by Sarduri-and later by his son Rusa (Armenian: Հրաչյա \"Hrachya\", according to Movses Khorenatsi) with the capital at Tushpa (Classical Armenian: Տոսպ \"Tosp\") located near the great city and the capital of the mighty Kingdom of Urartu, Van (Biaina) on the eastern shore of Lake Van. Sarduri placed Urzana as the governor of the spiritual center of Urartu, the Temple of Khaldi -- Musasir Ardini.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33935705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33935705", "title": "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012", "text": "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012\n\nThe National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2012 () is a United States federal law which besides other provisions specifies the budget and expenditures of the United States Department of Defense. The bill passed the U.S. House on December 14, 2011, the U.S. Senate on December 15, 2011, and was signed into United States law on December 31, 2011, by President Barack Obama.\n\nThe Act authorizes $662 billion in funding, among other things \"for the defense of the United States and its interests abroad\". In a signing statement, President Obama described the Act as addressing national security programs, Department of Defense health care costs, counter-terrorism within the United States and abroad, and military modernization. The Act also imposes new economic sanctions against Iran (section 1245), commissions appraisals of the military capabilities of countries such as Iran, China, and Russia, and refocuses the strategic goals of NATO towards \"energy security\". The Act also increases pay and healthcare costs for military service members and gives governors the ability to request the help of military reservists in the event of a hurricane, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack, or other disaster.\n\nThe most controversial provisions to receive wide attention were contained in subsections 1021–1022 of Title X, Subtitle D, entitled \"Counter-Terrorism\", authorizing the indefinite military detention of persons the government suspects of involvement in terrorism, including U.S. citizens arrested on American soil. Although the White House and Senate sponsors maintain that the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) already grants presidential authority for indefinite detention, the Act states that Congress \"affirms\" this authority and makes specific provisions as to the exercise of that authority. The detention provisions of the Act have received critical attention by, among others, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), the Bill of Rights Defense Committee, and some media sources which are concerned about the scope of the President's authority, including contentions that those whom they claim may be held indefinitely could include U.S. citizens arrested on American soil, including arrests by members of the Armed Forces. The detention powers currently face legal challenge.\n\nThe detention sections of the NDAA begin by \"affirm[ing]\" that the authority of the President under the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists (AUMF), a joint resolution passed in the immediate aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attacks, includes the power to detain, via the Armed Forces, any person, including a U.S. citizen, \"who was part of or substantially supported al-Qaeda, the Taliban, or associated forces that are engaged in hostilities against the United States or its coalition partners\", and anyone who commits a \"belligerent act\" against the United States or its coalition allies in aid of such enemy forces, under the law of war, \"without trial, until the end of the hostilities authorized by the [AUMF]\". The text authorizes trial by military tribunal, or \"transfer to the custody or control of the person's country of origin\", or transfer to \"any other foreign country, or any other foreign entity\".\n\nAddressing previous conflicts with the Obama Administration regarding the wording of the Senate text, the Senate–House compromise text, in sub-section 1021(d), also affirms that nothing in the Act \"is intended to limit or expand the authority of the President or the scope of the Authorization for Use of Military Force\". The final version of the bill also provides, in sub-section(e), that \"Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect existing law or authorities relating to the detention of United States citizens, lawful resident aliens of the United States, or any other persons who are captured or arrested in the United States\". As reflected in Senate debate over the bill, there is a great deal of controversy over the status of existing law.\n\nAn amendment to the Act that would have replaced current text with a requirement for executive clarification of detention authorities was rejected by the Senate. According to Senator Carl Levin, \"the language which precluded the application of section 1031 to American Citizens was in the bill that we originally approved in the Armed Services Committee and the Administration asked us to remove the language which says that U.S. citizens and lawful residents would not be subject to this section\". The Senator refers to section 1021 as \"1031\" because it was section 1031 at the time of his speaking.\n\nAll persons arrested and detained according to the provisions of section 1021, including those detained on U.S. soil, whether detained indefinitely or not, are required to be held by the United States Armed Forces. The law affords the option to have U.S. citizens detained by the armed forces but this requirement does not extend to them, as with foreign persons. Lawful resident aliens may or may not be required to be detained by the Armed Forces, \"on the basis of conduct taking place within the United States\".\n\nDuring debate on the senate floor, Levin stated that \"Administration officials reviewed the draft language for this provision and recommended additional changes. We were able to accommodate those recommendations, except for the Administration request that the provision apply only to detainees captured overseas and there's a good reason for that. Even here, the difference is modest, because the provision already excludes all U.S. citizens. It also excludes lawful residents of United States, except to extent permitted by the constitution. The only covered persons left are those who are illegally in this country or on a tourist visa or other short-term basis. Contrary to some press statements, the detainee provisions in our bill do not include new authority for the permanent detention of suspected terrorists. Rather, the bill uses language provided by the Administration to codify existing authority that has been upheld in federal courts\".\n\nA Presidential Policy Directive entitled \"Requirements of the National Defense Authorization Act\" regarding the procedures for implementing §1022 of the NDAA was issued on February 28, 2012, by the White House. The directive consists of eleven pages of specific implementation procedures including defining scope and limitations. Judge Kathrine B. Forrest wrote in \"Hedges v. Obama\": \"That directive provides specific guidance as to the 'Scope of Procedures and Standard for Covered Persons Determinations.' Specifically, it states that 'covered persons' applies only to a person who is not a citizen of the United States and who is a member or part of al-Qaeda or an associated force that acts in coordination with or pursuant to the direction of al-Qaeda; and \"who participated in the course of planning or carrying out an attack or attempted attack against the United States or its coalition partners\" (see p. 11–12). Under procedures released by the White House the military custody requirement can be waived in a wide variety of cases. Among the waiver possibilities are the following:\n\n\nThe White House threatened to veto the Senate version of the Act, arguing in an executive statement on November 17, 2011, that while \"the authorities granted by the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists, including the detention authority...are essential to our ability to protect the American people...(and) Because the authorities codified in this section already exist, the Administration does not believe codification is necessary and poses some risk\".\n\nThe statement furthermore objected to the mandate for \"military custody for a certain class of terrorism suspects\", which it called inconsistent with \"the fundamental American principle that our military does not patrol our streets\". The White House may now waive the requirement for military custody for some detainees following a review by appointed officials including the Attorney General, the secretaries of state, defense and homeland security, the chairman of the military's Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence.\n\nDuring debate within the Senate and before the Act's passage, Senator Mark Udall introduced an amendment interpreted by the ACLU and some news sources as an effort to limit military detention of American citizens indefinitely and without trial. The amendment proposed to strike the section \"Detainee Matters\" from the bill, and replace section 1021 (then titled 1031) with a provision requiring the Administration to clarify the Executive's authority to detain suspects on the basis of the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists. The amendment was rejected by a vote of 60–38 (with 2 abstaining). Udall subsequently voted for the Act in the joint session of Congress that passed it, and though he remained \"extremely troubled\" by the detainee provisions, he promised to \"push Congress to conduct the maximum amount of oversight possible\".\n\nThe Senate later adopted by a 98 to 1 vote a compromise amendment, based upon a proposal by Senator Dianne Feinstein, which preserves current law concerning U.S. citizens and lawful resident aliens detained within the United States. After a Senate–House compromise text explicitly ruled out any limitation of the President's authorities, but also removed the \"requirement\" of military detention for terrorism suspects arrested in the United States, the White House issued a statement saying that it would not veto the bill.\n\nIn his Signing Statement, President Obama explained: \"I have signed the Act chiefly because it authorizes funding for the defense of the United States and its interests abroad, crucial services for service members and their families, and vital national security programs that must be renewed...I have signed this bill despite having serious reservations with certain provisions that regulate the detention, interrogation, and prosecution of suspected terrorists\".\n\nOn December 14, 2011, the bill passed the U.S. House by a vote of 283 to 136, with 19 representatives not voting, and passed by the U.S. Senate on December 15, 2011, by a vote of 86 to 13.\n\nSection 1021 and 1022 have been called a violation of constitutional principles and of the Bill of Rights. Internationally, the UK-based newspaper \"The Guardian\" has described the legislation as allowing indefinite detention \"without trial [of] American terrorism suspects arrested on U.S. soil who could then be shipped to Guantánamo Bay;\" \"Al Jazeera\" has written that the Act \"gives the U.S. military the option to detain U.S. citizens suspected of participating or aiding in terrorist activities without a trial, indefinitely\". The official Russian international radio broadcasting service \"Voice of Russia\" has been highly critical of the legislation, writing that under its authority \"the U.S. military will have the power to detain Americans suspected of involvement in terrorism without charge or trial and imprison them for an indefinite period of time\"; it has furthermore written that \"the most radical analysts are comparing the new law to the edicts of the 'Third Reich' or 'Muslim tyrannies'\". The Act was strongly opposed by the ACLU, Amnesty International, Human Rights First, Human Rights Watch, The Center for Constitutional Rights, the Cato Institute, \"Reason Magazine\", and The Council on American-Islamic Relations, and was criticized in editorials published in the \"New York Times\" and other news organizations.\n\nAmericans have sought resistance of the NDAA through successful resolution campaigns in various states and municipalities. The states of Rhode Island and Michigan, the Colorado counties of Wade, El Paso, and Fremont, as well as the municipalities of Northampton, MA. and Fairfax, CA, have all passed resolutions rejecting the indefinite detention provisions of the NDAA. The Bill of Rights Defense Committee has launched a national campaign to mobilize individuals at the grassroots level to pass local and state resolutions voicing opposition to the NDAA. Campaigns have begun to grow in New York City, Miami and San Diego, among other cities and states.\n\nAttorneys Carl J. Mayer and Bruce I. Afran filed a complaint January 13, 2012, in the Southern U.S. District Court in New York City on the behalf of Chris Hedges against Barack Obama and Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta to challenge the legality of the Authorization for Use of Military Force as embedded in the latest version of the National Defense Authorization Act, signed by the president December 31. Lt. Col. Barry Wingard, a military attorney representing prisoners at Guantanamo Bay Detention Camp, noted that under the NDAA \"an American citizen can be detained forever without trial, while the allegations against you go uncontested because you have no right to see them\".\n\nOn December 31, 2011, and after signing the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 into law, President Obama issued a statement on it addressing \"certain provisions that regulate the detention, interrogation, and prosecution of terrorism suspects\". In the statement the President maintains that \"the legislation does nothing more than confirm authorities that the Federal courts have recognized as lawful under the 2001 AUMF\". The statement also maintains that the \"Administration will not authorize the indefinite military detention without trial of American citizens\", and that it \"will interpret section 1021 in a manner that ensures that any detention it authorizes complies with the Constitution, the laws of war, and all other applicable law\". Referring to the applicability of civilian versus military detention, the statement argued that \"the only responsible way to combat the threat al-Qa'ida poses is to remain relentlessly practical, guided by the factual and legal complexities of each case and the relative strengths and weaknesses of each system. Otherwise, investigations could be compromised, our authorities to hold dangerous individuals could be jeopardized, and intelligence could be lost\".\n\nOn February 22, 2012, the Administration represented by Jeh Charles Johnson, General Counsel of the U.S. Department of Defense defined the term \"associated forces\". Johnson stated in a speech at Yale Law School:\n\nOn February 28, 2012, the administration announced that it would waive the requirement for military detention in \"any case in which officials [believe] that placing a detainee in military custody could impede counterterrorism cooperation with the detainee's home government or interfere with efforts to secure the person's cooperation or confession\". Application of military custody to any suspect is determined by a national security team including the attorney general, the secretaries of state, defense, and homeland security, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of National Intelligence.\n\nOn September 12, 2012, U.S. District Judge Katherine B. Forrest issued an injunction against the indefinite detention provisions of the NDAA (section 1021(b)(2)) on the grounds of unconstitutionality; however, this injunction was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit the following day and was later reversed.\n\nThe Administration explained on November 6, 2012, the terms \"substantially supported\" and \"associated forces\" in its opening brief before the U.S. Second Court of Appeals in \"Hedges v. Obama\". With respect to the term \"substantially supported\" the Obama administration stated:\n\nAnd with respect to the term \"associated forces\", the Administration cited the above-mentioned Jeh Johnson's remarks on February 22, 2012:\n\nThe Administration summarized later in its brief that:\n\nNBC News released in February 2014 an undated U.S. Department of Justice White paper entitled \"Lawfulness of a Lethal Operation Directed Against a U.S. Citizen who is a Senior Operational Leader of Al Qa'ida or An Associated Force.\" In it the Justice Department stated with respect to the term \"associated forces\"\n\n\"Mother Jones\" wrote that the Act \"is the first concrete gesture Congress has made towards turning the homeland into the battlefield\", arguing that \"codifying indefinite detention on American soil is a very dangerous step\". The magazine has nevertheless contested claims by \"The Guardian\" and the \"New York Times\" that the Act \"allows the military to indefinitely detain without trial American terrorism suspects arrested on U.S. soil who could then be shipped to Guantánamo Bay\", writing that \"they're simply wrong...It allows people who think the 2001 Authorization to Use Military Force against the perpetrators of the 9/11 attacks gives the president the authority to detain U.S. citizens without charge or trial to say that, but it also allows people who can read the Constitution of the United States to argue something else\". Legal commentator Joanne Mariner has noted in \"Verdict\" that the scope of existing detention power under the AUMF is \"subject to vociferous debate and continuing litigation\". In the years that followed the September 11 attacks, the AUMF was interpreted to allow the indefinite detention of both citizens and non-citizens arrested far from any traditional battlefield, including in the United States.\nOther legal commentators argue that the NDAA does not permit truly \"indefinite\" detention, given that the period of detention is limited by the duration of the armed conflict. In making this claim, they emphasize the difference between (1) detention pursuant to the \"laws of war\" and (2) detention pursuant to domestic criminal law authorities. David B. Rivkin and Lee Casey, for example, argue that detention under the AUMF is authorized under the laws of war and is not indefinite because the authority to detain ends with the cessation of hostilities. They argue that the NDAA invokes \"existing Supreme Court precedent...that clearly permits the military detention (and even trial) of citizens who have themselves engaged in hostile acts or have supported such acts to the extent that they are properly classified as 'combatants' or 'belligerents'\". This reflects the fact that, in their view, the United States is, pursuant to the AUMF, at war with al-Qaeda, and detention of enemy combatants in accordance with the laws of war is authorized. In their view, this does not preclude trial in civilian courts, but it does not require that the detainee be charged and tried. If the detainee is an enemy combatant who has not violated the laws of war, he is not chargeable with any triable offense. Commentators who share this view emphasize the need not to blur the distinction between domestic criminal law and the laws of war.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union has stated that \"While President Obama issued a signing statement saying he had 'serious reservations' about the provisions, the statement only applies to how his administration would use the authorities granted by the NDAA\", and, despite claims to the contrary, \"The statute contains a sweeping worldwide indefinite detention provision...[without] temporal or geographic limitations, and can be used by this and future presidents to militarily detain people captured far from any battlefield\". The ACLU also maintains that \"the breadth of the NDAA's detention authority violates international law because it is not limited to people captured in the context of an actual armed conflict as required by the laws of war\".\n\nFollowing the passage of the NDAA, various proposals have been offered to clarify the detainee provisions. One example, H.R. 3676, sponsored by U.S. Representative Jeff Landry of Louisiana, would amend the NDAA \"to specify that no U.S. citizen may be detained against his or her will without all the rights of due process\". Other similar bills in the U.S. House of Representatives have been introduced by Representatives John Garamendi of California and Chris Gibson of New York.\n\nThe Feinstein-Lee Amendment that would have explicitly barred the military from holding American citizens and permanent residents in indefinite detention without trial as terrorism suspects was dropped on December 18, 2012, during the merging of the House and Senate versions of the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act.\n\nA lawsuit was filed January 13, 2012, against the Obama Administration and Members of the U.S. Congress by a group including former \"New York Times\" reporter Christopher Hedges challenging the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012. The plaintiffs contend that Section 1021(b)(2) of the law allows the detention of citizens and permanent residents taken into custody in the United States on \"suspicion of providing substantial support\" to groups engaged in hostilities against the United States such as al-Qaeda and the Taliban.\n\nIn May 2012, a federal court in New York issued a preliminary injunction which temporarily blocked the indefinite detention powers of NDAA Section 1021(b)(2) on the grounds of unconstitutionality. On August 6, 2012, federal prosecutors representing President Obama and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, hoping to eliminate the ban. The following day arguments from both sides were heard by U.S. District Judge Katherine B. Forrest during a hearing to determine whether to make her preliminary injunction permanent or not. On September 12, 2012, Judge Forrest issued a permanent injunction, but this was appealed by the Obama Administration on September 13, 2012. A federal appeals court granted a U.S. Justice Department's request for an interim stay of the permanent injunction, pending the Second Circuit's consideration of the government's motion to stay the injunction throughout its appeal. The court also said that a Second Circuit motions panel will take up the government's motion for stay pending appeal on September 28, 2012. On October 2, 2012, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the ban on indefinite detention will not go into effect until a decision on the Obama Administration's appeal is rendered. The U.S. Supreme Court refused on December 14, 2012, to lift the stay pending appeal of the order issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit on October 2, 2012. The Second Circuit Court of Appeals overturned on July 17, 2013, the district court's ruling which struck down § 1021(b)(2) of NDAA as unconstitutional, because the plaintiffs lacked legal standing to challenge it. The Supreme Court denied certiorari in an order issued April 28, 2014. Critics of the decision quickly pointed out that, without the right to a trial, it is impossible for an individual with legal standing to challenge 1021 without having already been released.\n\nAs of April 2013, four states have passed resolutions through committee to adjust or block the detainment provisions of the 2012 NDAA and now await a vote. These states are: Arizona, Colorado, Montana, and South Carolina. Anti-NDAA legislation has passed the full senate in Indiana by a vote of 31–17. In Kansas, legislation is waiting for a vote. An additional 13 states have introduced legislation against the detainment provisions: California, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, and West Virginia.\n\nNine counties have passed resolutions against sections 1021 and 1022 of the NDAA. They are: Moffat, Weld, and Fremont counties in Colorado; Harper County, Kansas; Allegan and Oakland counties in Michigan; Alleghany County in North Carolina; and Fulton and Elk counties in Pennsylvania. Resolutions have been introduced in three counties: Barber County, Kansas; Montgomery County, Maryland; and Lycoming County, Pennsylvania.\n\nEleven municipalities have passed resolutions as well. They are: Berkeley, Fairfax, San Francisco, and Santa Cruz, California; Cherokee City, Kansas; Northampton, Massachusetts; Takoma Park, Maryland; Macomb, New York; New Shorehampton, Rhode Island; League City, Texas; and Las Vegas, Nevada (currently waiting on the county to pass a joint resolution). An additional 13 municipalities have introduced anti-NDAA resolutions: San Diego, California; Miami, Florida; Portland, Maine; Chapel Hill, Durham, and Raleigh, North Carolina; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Albany and New York City, New York; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Dallas, Texas; Springfield, Virginia; and Tacoma, Washington.\n\nNorthampton, Massachusetts, became the first city in New England to pass a resolution rejecting the NDAA on February 16, 2012. William Newman, Director of the ACLU in western Massachusetts, said, \"We have a country based on laws and process and fairness. This law is an absolute affront to those principles that make America a free nation\".\n\nAs part of the ongoing dispute over Iranian uranium enrichment, section 1245 of the NDAA imposes unilateral sanctions against the Central Bank of Iran, effectively blocking Iranian oil exports to countries which do business with the United States. The new sanctions impose penalties against entities—including corporations and foreign central banks—which engage in transactions with the Iranian central bank. Sanctions on transactions unrelated to petroleum take effect 60 days after the bill is signed into law, while sanctions on transactions related to petroleum take effect a minimum of six months after the bill's signing. The bill grants the U.S. President authority to grant waivers in cases in which petroleum purchasers are unable, due to supply or cost, to significantly reduce their purchases of Iranian oil, or in which American national security is threatened by implementation of the sanctions. Following the signing into law of the NDAA, the Iranian rial fell significantly against the U.S. dollar, reaching a record low two days after the bill's enactment, a change widely attributed to the expected impact of the new sanctions on the Iranian economy. Officials within the Iranian government have threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz, an important passageway for Middle East oil exports, should the United States press forward with the new sanctions as planned.\n\nAmendments made to the bill following its passage include a 1.6 percent pay increase for all service members, and an increase in military healthcare enrollment and copay fees. The changes were unanimously endorsed by the Senate Armed Services Committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23320974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23320974", "title": "Nationalities Papers", "text": "Nationalities Papers\n\nNationalities Papers is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Cambridge University Press for the Association for the Study of Nationalities. The editor-in-chief is Harris Mylonas (George Washington University). It publishes articles on nationalism, minorities, and ethnic conflict, with a regional focus on Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, the former Soviet Union, Turkey, and Central Asia. The journal is interdisciplinary, with authors from a variety of backgrounds, including history, political science, sociology, anthropology, and literature. \"Nationalities Papers\" started in 1972 and currently publishes 6 issues per year.\n\n"}
{"id": "446707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446707", "title": "Paraty", "text": "Paraty\n\nParaty (or Parati, ) is a preserved Portuguese colonial (1500–1822) and Brazilian Imperial (1822–1889) municipality with a population of about 36,000. It is located on the Costa Verde (Green Coast), a lush, green corridor that runs along the coastline of the state of Rio de Janeiro, in Brazil. Paraty has become a popular tourist destination in recent years, renowned for the historic town and the coast and mountains in the region.\n\nThe town is located on the Bay of Ilha Grande, which is dotted with many tropical islands. Rising up as high as 1,300 meters behind the town are tropical forests, mountains, and waterfalls. It is the southernmost and westernmost city in Rio de Janeiro state.\n\nParaty has great tourist appeal due to its natural beauty, and is listed by IPHAN a National Historic Landmark.\nMore than 80% of its territory is protected by conservation units:\nNearby is the Serra do Mar State Park of São Paulo. \nThe municipality also includes an indigenous village and an Afro-Brazilian \"quilombo\" settlement.\n\nThe temperature in Paraty ranges from . Its wettest month is February. However, sea breezes temper the heat and afternoon rains are common in the summer. \n\nThe flag of Paraty was adopted on August 12, 1967. The overall colors of the flag represent the following traits: gold signifies strength, silver represents innocence, red is bravery, blue serenity, and green is the color of abundance.\n\nRed, white, and blue are the three colors that have traditionally been used to decorate the historic houses of the city. The colors are displayed in three vertical stripes, with a coat of arms on the center. The large white star on the red stripe symbolizes the first district, and on the blue stripe two small stars represent the second and third districts. The three stars are placed in a triangular form, in homage to the strong presence of Freemasonry in the architecture of the city.The crown represents the royal traditions that discobvered the country and founded the independent country. The real reasons for green is the Portuguese house of Braganca and yellow because of the Austrian house of Habsburg, (Dom Pedro I and Dona Leopoldina)\n\nThe coat of arms shown on the flag was adopted on November 30, 1960. The four quarters of the coat of arms symbolize the following:\n\n\nThe flora which supports the red scroll are a branch of coffee tree and a stalk of sugarcane. The scroll itself bears the inscription “1660 Paraty 1844” These are the dates that Paraty initially achieved status as a town and then later city status. Above the shield is a crown consisting of five towers, with the center tower emblazoned with a red shield bearing a gold fleur-de-lis, which symbolizes Our Lady of Remedies, the patron saint of the city.\n\nThe village of Paraty was founded in 1597. It was established formally as a town by Portuguese colonizers in 1667, in a region populated by the Guaianás Indians.\n\nThe Guaianás people who lived where the city now stands called the entire area “Paraty”. In the Tupi language “Paraty” means “river of fish”. Even today the Brazilian Mullet (\"Mugil brasiliensis\") still come back to spawn in the rivers that spill into the Bay of Paraty. When the region was colonized by the Portuguese, they adopted the Guaianás name for their new town.\n\nAfter the discovery of the world's richest gold mines in 1696 in the mountains of Minas Gerais, Paraty became an export port for gold to Rio de Janeiro and from there on to Portugal. The ensuing gold rush led to the construction of the \"Caminho do Ouro\" or \"Gold Trail\", a 1200 kilometer road, paved in steep areas with large stones, which connected Paraty to Diamantina via Ouro Preto and Tiradentes. Not only was it used to transport gold to Paraty, but it was also used to convey supplies, miners and African slaves by mule train over the mountains to and from the gold mining areas. Two substantial sections of the Caminho do Ouro have been excavated near Paraty and are now a popular tourist destination for hiking.\n\nThe Gold Trail fell into disuse because of attacks on the gold laden ships bound for Rio de Janeiro by pirates who frequented the islands and coves of the Bay of Angra dos Reis. Eventually a safer overland route from Minas Gerais to Rio de Janeiro was created because of these pirate raids. Finally, the gold itself began to run out in the late 18th century, and Paraty declined.\n\nThe Gold Trail was submitted for inclusion on the World Heritage List in August 2004.\n\nThe city's economic activity revived as a port for a new boom, the coffee trade of the Paraiba do Sul River Valley in the early 19th century, until a railway along the valley created cheaper transport to the port of Rio de Janeiro. Another smaller revival came late in the 19th century with the production of cachaça, which is a sugarcane-derived spirit best known today as the basis for Brazil's most famous drink, the caipirinha. The name \"Paraty\" in that period became synonymous with cachaça.\nSince then, Paraty has been out of the mainstream, which is why it did not change for centuries, until a paved road was built from Rio de Janeiro to Santos, near São Paulo, in the 1970s. The city then began a new cycle of activity, which transformed a small, almost abandoned town living on very limited economic activity, mainly fishing and agriculture (bananas, manioc, sugarcane) into a tourism destination.\n\nParaty is known for the cobblestone-paved streets throughout the Historic Center District. No cars or trucks are allowed in this part of town, only foot traffic or bicycles. Motor vehicles are only allowed in the Historic District on Wednesdays for deliveries. Horses and carts are a very common sight in Paraty and are frequently used all around the city.\n\nParaty has been able to maintain many of its historic buildings. Much of the architecture of the city has not changed for 250 years or more.\n\nThere are four important historic baroque churches in Paraty:\n\nCapela de Santa Rita is the oldest church in Paraty. It was completed in 1722. This was the church of the white elite and freeman, former slaves. It is currently home to the Museum of Sacred Art.\n\nThis church was built and used by Paraty’s African slaves. It dates back to the year 1725. The church has a much simpler, more rustic style than the other three churches in Paraty. Every year in the first week of December the festivities of São Benedito are held in this church.\n\nThis chapel dates back to 1800. It was used mostly by the rich women of society. Construction was overseen by the presiding priest, Father Antonio Xavier da Silva Braga. The building was later renovated in 1901. The image of Nossa Senhora da Piedade was stolen from this chapel. It was finally recovered in the 1990s, and now can be seen at the Museum of Sacred Art in the Capela de Santa Rita.\n\nIgreja Matriz Nossa Senhora do Remédios is the largest church in Paraty. It takes up over an entire city block. Its construction began in 1646 when a woman named Maria Jácome de Melo donated the land for the construction of the village of Paraty, however she demanded two conditions: The first was the building of a chapel dedicated to Nossa Senhora dos Remédios and the second was that no one would harm the Indians that lived in the area at that time. The church was completed in 1873.\n\nAdditionally there is a very small chapel called Capela da Generosa which according to legend, was constructed in 1901 by the order of a generous female patron, in memory of Teodoro. Teodoro supposedly drowned in the river Perequê-Açu when he tried to fish on Good Friday, a day on which according to tradition it was not recommended to fish.\n\nThere are also historical churches in two nearby small villages, Paraty Mirim and Penha.\n\nParaty-Mirim (Little Paraty) is the site of first chapel built by settlers in the region around Paraty (1686). At the time of its construction Paraty-Mirim an important commercial center and thriving village. Today however, all that remains there are the church itself and a scattering private homes. Although in recent years the tourist trade has grown there due to the pristine beaches in the area and Paraty-Mirim now has a few small inns, a couple of restaurant/bars and offers boat tours.\n\nThis church is unique in that it was built on top of a huge boulder in the small hamlet of Penha, just outside Paraty. The church is located directly across from the Tourist Information Center at the trail-head of the Caminho do Ouro.\nThere are two colonial forts in Paraty:\n\nForte Defensor was built in 1703 and outfitted with six cannons for the protection of the city’s important commercial warehouses. With the aforementioned economic decline of the region, it was in ruins until 1822, when it was reconstructed and dedicated to Emperor Dom Pedro I. Some historians believe that it was at the fort that the first nucleus of the town began, in that the area around the fort is still referred to as the \"Old Village.\"\n\nRuins of the old, rock defensive walls together with the cannons can still be seen today. It is also home to a Powder House for storing explosives – one of the few still existing in Brazil. Forte Defensor is one of seven fortifications that were built around the harbor of Paraty, two of them being in the city. All of the others that were constructed outside the city are now only ruins.\n\nWhat is left of this fort, also known as Cadeia Antiga (the Old Jail) is a smallish structure which for a while was also used as a prison. It is found in the plaza of Santa Rita, next to the church of same name. Constructed in the beginning of the 18th century, the building was part of a larger Forte Patitiba, the other blockhouse built in the city for defense of the harbor. In the 19th century it was decommissioned and today it houses the local Public Library.\n\nThere are also many colorful, colonial houses (refurbished in most cases), many of which have been transformed into shops, pousadas (Brazilian bed and breakfasts), restaurants and bars.\n\nOnce a month when there is a Full Moon and the tide is high, seawater rises from its normal levels, and pours into the Historic Center District through special openings in the seawalls that separate the city from the harbor. The streets are only flooded for a short time, until the tide recedes. The water is usually only six to ten inches deep and a few merchants near the seawall put out small bridges to span the flooded streets for the benefit of pedestrians.\n\nParaty is divided into 12 neighborhoods. They are as follows:\n\n\nThe municipality contains the Paraty-Mirim State Park, created in 1972.\nIt contains part of the Tamoios Ecological Station.\n\nThere are many musical and cultural events, the most prominent of which is the FLIP – Festa Literaria Internacional de Paraty (International Literary Festival of Paraty). The town is also known for its local festivals on Catholic holy dates, such as the Feast of the Holy Ghost.\n\nThe \"Casa da Cultura Paraty\" (House of Culture) occupies an historic 18th century house originally built in 1754 which opened to the public in 2004 and holds a permanent exhibition on local history and culture. In the Salon of Indigenous Culture, visitors can see the “carpets” made of colored sawdust and flower petals used during the festival of Corpus Christi in June. The largest is almost . The “carpet” is protected by glass so that visitors walk on it as they enter.\n\nParaty played the part of the Bahian town of Ilhéus in the 1983 Bruno Barreto film \"Gabriela, Cravo e Canela\", starring Sônia Braga and Marcello Mastroianni.\n\nParaty was also the set for Isle Esme (the place of Edward and Bella's honeymoon) in the movie \"\".\n\nParaty airport can be reached from Rio de Janeiro or São Paulo by chartered helicopter or small commercial and private aircraft because presently it has no scheduled flights.\n\nAnother possibility of transport is to arrive by sea by way of a sailboat or cruise ship from Rio de Janeiro, Angra dos Reis and Ilha Grande.\n\nParaty is connected by road to Rio de Janeiro or São Paulo (via road BR-101). Air-conditioned buses leave to go back and forth from Rio to Paraty and Paraty to Rio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56032468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56032468", "title": "Parvin E'tesami Literary Award", "text": "Parvin E'tesami Literary Award\n\nThe Parvin E'tesami Literary Award () is an Iranian literary award presented yearly since 2004. Every year, an award is given to the best Iranian authors on the birthday of the renowned Persian poet Parvin E'tesami.\n"}
{"id": "490309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=490309", "title": "Peep show", "text": "Peep show\n\nA peep show or peepshow is an exhibition of pictures, objects or people viewed through a small hole or magnifying glass. Though historically a peep show was a form of entertainment provided by wandering showmen, nowadays it more commonly refers to a presentation of a sex show or pornographic film which is viewed through a viewing slot. Historically the peep hole was intended to control the point of view to allow an illusion of depth perception, while showmen would later use it to charge for access to the view. For sex shows it also became a means to view material that would be objected to if freely displayed.\n\nPeep shows, also known as peep box or raree show (\"rarity show\") can be traced back to the early modern period (15th century in Europe) and are known in various cultures. \nAround 1437 Italian humanist author, artist, architect, poet, priest, linguist, philosopher and cryptographer Leon Battista Alberti is thought to have created the earliest impressive peep show boxes with painted pictures to be viewed through a small hole. He had two kinds: night scenes with the moon and stars, and day scenes. It is thought these pictures may have been transparent and lit from behind, possibly changing from day to night by changing the lighting. It has also been suggested that it may have been a predecessor of the magic lantern that could project images. \n\nIn the 17th and 18th century peep shows were exhibited on streets and fairs across Europe by itinerant showmen, competing with other entertainment like dancing bears, jugglers, conjurers, et cetera. Their wooden cabinets could have several viewing holes and contain sets of pictures to be set into a viewing position by pulling a corresponding string. The show was accompanied by spoken recitation that explained or dramatized what was happening inside. The boxes were often decorated inside to resemble theatrical scenes. \n\nPeep shows were most popular in the 17th century in Holland. Some artists from the 17th-century Dutch Golden Age painting, like Pieter Janssens Elinga and Samuel Dirksz van Hoogstraten created a type of peep shows with an illusion of depth perception by manipulating the perspective of the view seen inside, usually the interior of a room.\nFrom around 1700 many of these \"perspective boxes\" or \"optica\" had a bi-convex lens with a large diameter and small dioptre for an exaggerated perspective, giving a stronger illusion of depth. Most pictures showed architectural and topographical subjects with linear perspectives. From around 1745 similar perspective view prints became very popular for the zograscope, which used the same principle with the lens on a stand rather than in a box. \nPeep shows were further developed with translucent painting techniques, perforations and cut-out shapes that provided special effects when lit from behind by candles. Changing the light from the front to the back of the picture could change the scene from day to night, much like the dissolving views that would later become a popular type of magic lantern show.\n\nIn the early 18th century the perspective boxes were very appreciated in Japan, where they were referred to as \"Holland machines\". They may have been imported from China earlier than from The Netherlands.\n\n19th-century Chinese peep shows were known by many names including \"la yang p'ien\" (). Sometimes the showman would perform for a crowd with puppets or pictures outside the box and then charge people extra to look through the holes.\nIn Ottoman Syria a form of peep show called \"sanduk al-ajayib\" (\"wonder box\") existed, which the storyteller carried on his back. The box had six holes through which people could see scenes backlit by a central candle. \"Sanduk al-ajayib\" stories were about contemporary figures and events, or showed scenes of heaven and hell. \n\nOther common subjects in peep shows throughout the world have been exotic views and animals, scenes of classical drama or masques, court ceremonies, surprise transformations (e.g., of an angel into a devil) and of course, lewd pictures.\nRaree shows were precursors of toy theatres, with movable scenes and paper figurines, popular in the 19th century. They can also be seen as predecessors to optical toys like Chinese fireworks, the diorama, the stereoscope and the magic lantern.\n\nSome peep shows offer the only accurate representation of the stage design and scenery of the masques and pageants of their time.\n\nPeep shows have been used for erotic and pornographic pictures, such as \"What the Butler Saw\", since before the turn of the twentieth century. \n\nIn contemporary use, a peep show is a piecewise presentation of pornographic films or a live sex show which is viewed through a viewing slot, which shuts after the time paid for has expired. The viewing slots can be operated by a money box device, or paid for at a counter. \n\nFor live peep shows, booths can surround a stage upon which usually a female performer performs a striptease and sexually explicit poses. In Barcelona female performers at times also perform sexual intercourse with male performers on stage. In some cases, booths include paper towel dispensers, for customers who engage in masturbation. A customer and performer can mutually agree on a fee for a \"private dance\", which can take place in a peep show booth with a clear window and seating space for only one spectator.\n\nResearch on peep show establishments in California examined the hypothesis that neighborhoods surrounding sex businesses such as peep show establishments and X-rated movie stores have higher rates of crime. The researchers compared 911 calls in peep show and control neighborhoods in San Diego. Although peep show neighborhoods had approximately 16 percent more calls, the researchers concluded that the difference was not statistically significant. Other researchers reanalyzed the data and concluded that the difference was significant.\n\nRegal Show World was an adult entertainment business on lower Market Street in San Francisco, California. The company's slogan was \"Where you are king\". The business had a peep show and an adult video arcade. The peep show had performers working in an enclosed round room with viewing booths surrounding it and sometimes had a \"double in the bubble\" show in which two performers worked simultaneously. During the winter of 1997 to 1998, the business had thirty-five performers. At this time, over 80% of performers there attempted to unionize and \"signed union authorization cards for representation by the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Local 790\".\n\nThe business was owned by Bijou Group, Inc., a privately held company in San Francisco that was founded in 1990. Bijou Group owned similar businesses in San Francisco such as New Century Theater, Market Street Cinema, and the Campus Theater. Bijou Group, Inc. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization circa 1994. In November 1998, management of Regal Show World announced that the peep show would be closed on November 30th of that month due to \"economic reasons\". At the time, some performers in the industry stated that closure of the peep show was done as a retaliative measure against attempts for performers to unionize. The company declared bankruptcy after performers made a second attempt at unionization, whereby the performers \"signed cards calling for a union election\", and the theater was closed.\n\nThe former Lusty Lady peep show in San Francisco, California, entered the news in 1997, when it became the first U.S. sex business to be unionized. In 2003 it was bought by the employees and became a worker cooperative.\n\n\n\nRegal Show World\n\n"}
{"id": "24582392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24582392", "title": "Pornography in the Middle East", "text": "Pornography in the Middle East\n\nPornography in the Middle East has been somewhat minimally documented and researched by scholars. \n\nThough broadcast of and internet access to pornography is restricted or banned in many countries in the region, widespread access to pornography is available via satellite dishes.\n\nIn Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and almost all other countries in the Middle East, pornography is illegal. However, due to widespread Internet access (in particular, downloading programs) and the existence of a large-scale black market in Western films, pornography is called \"super film.\" In Iran, a law was passed in mid-2007 by parliament but still required approval of the Guardian Council, producers of pornographic films face execution if found guilty.\n\nPornography is readily available for users in a handful of Middle Eastern nations, such as Turkey, Azerbaijan, Lebanon and Israel; and the production of pornography is also legal within Turkey, Azerbaijan and Israel.\n\nIn September 2011, a Lebanese-Syrian gang involved in promoting pornographic movies was arrested by the Lebanese general security forces, according to Lebanon's National News Agency. The group sold the films on DVDs to minors in various regions in Lebanon.\n\n"}
{"id": "17953828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17953828", "title": "Postglossator", "text": "Postglossator\n\nThe postglossators or commentators formed a European legal school which arose in Italy and France in the fourteenth century. They form the highest point of development of medieval Roman law.\n\nThe school of the \"glossators\" in Bologna lost its vitality, resulting in the rise of a new school of legal thought in the 14th century, centred on Orléans in France. Bartolus was the most famous of the commentators. Rather than simply seeking to explain the law, the commentators were more concerned with the potential for practical application of the law. Politically at this time, the idea of the Spirit of One – one church and one empire, was popular in Europe. Roman law thus appealed as bringing the potential for one law in addition. Roman law was written and certain as well as being generally consistent and complete. The educated liked its roots and saw the potential for application.\n\nThe commentators faced head on the conflict of law with custom as they saw the potential for practical application of the Roman law. They were opportunistic and as medieval Italy flourished, there were many opportunities to be the mediator between the developing political, scientific and economic spheres. Thus many of their ideas were based on practical morality, bold construction of the law and clever interpretations. For example, feudal law, which violated the absoluteness of dominium, was harmonised with Roman law by drawing links with the long lease, which gave rise to a vindicatio directa. The commentators argued that the vindicata directa was evidence of another type of ownership and that feudal ownership could fall within this category. This made Roman law more flexible, although was clearly a move away from the texts, and thus made it of greater practical use to rulers who were seeking a rational and coherent law.\n\nThe Commentators went beyond the glossators, who had treated each text separately. The commentators instead wrote prose commentaries on the texts (rather like lectures,) working through, book by book, through the Digest. Rather than simply taking individual Roman law texts at face value, making it useful for practical application involved considering the rationale and principles behind the law. Certain areas were thus not considered at all, for example, Bartolus makes no attempt to consider culpa. However, this general approach produced a far more sophisticated law and enabled harmonisation between Roman law and local law. For example, Roman law said that a will was valid if you had 5 witnesses and that Roman law superseded customary law, whilst Venice law only required 3 witnesses. Bartolus’ approach was to consider why Roman law superseded custom. He concluded that this was because custom was presumed bad. However, in certain circumstances, custom would be allowed by the Emperor, where the law was considered good. Since the Venice law had come into practice after the Emperor, the Emperor had not considered if it were good law. However, it clearly was and therefore it should be allowed to continue. The Commentators also harmonised canon law with Roman law to some extent. Canonists argued that bare agreement could give rise to an action (but they only had jurisdiction where that agreement was made by oath.) The Commentators said that the canon law was simply a form of clothing which could make a bare pact enforceable.\n\nThe extraction of general principles allowed Roman law to be used in situations which were unfamiliar to the Romans, it provided a coherent and convenient set of rules, which could then be used to interpret local customs, which were given primacy but very narrowly interpreted. The impact of the commentators was thus substantial. Their commentaries were found throughout Europe, in fact it was said that if one was not a Bartolist (a commentator), one could not be a lawyer at all.\n"}
{"id": "23958175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23958175", "title": "Qesem cave", "text": "Qesem cave\n\nQesem cave is a Lower Paleolithic archeological site 12 km east of Tel Aviv in Israel. Early humans were occupying the site by 400,000 until c. 200,000 years ago.\n\nThe cave attracted considerable attention in December 2010 when reports suggested Israeli and Spanish archaeologists had found the earliest evidence yet of modern humans. Science bloggers pointed out that the media coverage had inaccurately reflected the scientific report.\n\nSelective large-game hunting was regularly done followed by butchery of desired carcass parts for transport back to a residence for food sharing and cooking.\n\nThe cave exists in Turonian limestone in the western mountain ridge of Israel between the Samaria Hills and the Israeli coastal plain. It is 90m above sea level.\n\nDeposits at the site are deep, and are divided into two layers: the upper is about thick, and the lower . The upper forms a step on the lower one. The deposits contain stone tools and animal remains from the Acheulo-Yabrudian complex. This a period that follows after the Acheulian but before the Mousterian. No traces of Mousterian occupation have been found.\n\nThe cave was found in October 2000 when road construction destroyed its ceiling. This led to two rescue excavations in 2001. At present the site is protected, covered and fenced and subject to on-going excavations.\n\nQesem Cave was occupied from about 420-220 ka, although there is some uncertainty regarding the end date. All archaeological finds at Qesem Cave have been assigned to the Acheulo-Yabrudian Cultural Complex (AYCC) of the late Lower Paleolithic. In 2003, 230Th/234U dating on speleothems established the beginning of the occupation as \"well before about 382,000 years ago.\" Further research in 2010, 2013, and 2016, involved thermoluminescence dating (TL) on burnt flints and ESR/U-series (Electron spin resonance dating) on speleothems and herbivorous teeth.\n\nQesem Cave stone tools are made of ﬂint. They are mainly blades end scrapers, burins, and naturally backed knives. There are also flakes and hammerstones. Some of the horizons contain many blades and related blade-tools but they are absent in others. However thick side-scrapers are found throughout them. Acheulian type hand-axes are found at the top and at the bottom of the archeological sequence. All stages of stone tool manufacture have been found. Many of the cores have sufficient of the surface cortex to allow reconstruction of the original stone’s shape.\n\nUsing the concentration of cosmic ray created Beryllium-10 it has been argued that the flint used at Qesem Cave was surface-collected or only dug from shallow quarries. This is in contrast to flint of the same period from Tabun Cave nearby that originated two or more metres below the surface, probably after being mined.\n\nThe Qesem Cave contains one of the earliest examples of regular use of fire in the Middle Pleistocene. Large quantities of burnt bone, defined by a combination of microscopic and macroscopic criteria, and moderately heated soil lumps suggest butchering and prey-defleshing occurred near fireplaces.\n\n10-36% of identified bone specimens show signs of burning and on unidentified bone ones it could be up to 84%. Such heat reached 500 degrees C.\n\nA 300,000-year-old hearth was unearthed in a central part of the cave. Layers of ash was discovered in the pit, and burnt animal bones and flint tools used for carving meat were found near the hearth, suggesting it was used repeatedly and was a focal point for the people living there.\n\nBones from 4,740 prey animals have been identified. These are mostly large mammals such as fallow deer (73–76% of identified specimens), aurochs, horse, wild pig, wild goat, roe deer, wild ass and red deer. Tortoise and a rare rhinoceros remains have also been found but no gazelle bones.\n\nThese animal bones show marks of butchery, marrow extraction and burning from fire. Analysis of the orientation and anatomical placements of the cut marks suggest meat and connective tissue were cut off in a planned manner from the bone.\n\nDeer remains are limited to limb bones and head parts without remains of vertebrae, ribs, pelvis, or feet suggesting that butchery was selective in regard to the body parts that had been carried to the cave following initial butchery of the animal carcasses elsewhere.\n\nMoreover, the presence of fetal bones and the absence of deer antlers implies that much of the hunting took place in late winter through early summer. At that time the need for additional fat in the diet would have made those animals particularly important prey. The excavators described this as “prime-age-focused harvesting, a uniquely human predator–prey relationship”.\n\n\nThe rich Acheulo-Yabrudian deposits at Qesem Cave offer a rare opportunity to study human adaptation and evolution in the Pleistocene. Because the dates indicate that human activity occurred mostly before 382 kyr, and because the site is located within the ‘out-of-Africa’ corridor, the information obtained by a study of Qesem Cave is likely to contribute substantially to our understanding of the origins and dispersal of modern humans.\n<br>Ran Barkai Co-Director of Excavation and colleagues of the Qesem Cave Project in Nature\n\nThe Levantine Acheulian assemblages predating the Acheulo-Yabrudian were probably made by Homo erectus (sensu lato), whereas Mousterian industries postdating the Acheulo-Yabrudian were made by both anatomically modern humans and Homo neanderthalensis. It would be interesting to learn who was the maker of the unique Acheulo-Yabrudian assemblages. If human remains are recovered, Qesem might hold a key to the understanding of evolution and dispersal of modern humans.\n<br>Ran Barkai Co-Director of Excavation and colleagues of the Qesem Cave Project Nature\n\n\nThese hominins hunted cooperatively, and consumption of the highest quality parts of large prey was delayed until the food could be moved to the cave and processed with the aid of blade cutting tools and fire. Delayed consumption of high-quality body parts implies that the meat was shared with other members of the group. ... Although not the earliest record of fire as technology in the Levant, Qesem Cave preserves contextual information about cooking and marrow extraction during the late Lower Paleolithic.\n<br>Mary Stiner and colleagues of the Qesem Cave Project in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\n\n"}
{"id": "12076925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12076925", "title": "Quest for Fire (film)", "text": "Quest for Fire (film)\n\nQuest for Fire () is a 1981 France-Canada science fantasy adventure film directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud, written by Gérard Brach and starring Everett McGill, Ron Perlman, Nameer El-Kadi and Rae Dawn Chong. It is a film adaptation of the 1911 Belgian novel \"The Quest for Fire\" by J.-H. Rosny. The story is set in Paleolithic Europe (80,000 years ago), with its plot surrounding the struggle for control of fire by early humans. It won the Academy Award for Makeup.\n\nThe Ulam are a tribe of cavemen who possess fire in the form of a carefully guarded small flame which they use to start larger bonfires. Driven out of their home after a bloody battle with the ape-like Wagabu, the Ulam are horrified when their fire is accidentally extinguished in a marsh. Because the tribe does not know how to create fire themselves, the tribal elder decides to send three men, Naoh, Amoukar, and Gaw, on a quest to find fire. \n\nThe trio encounter several dangers on their trek, including an encounter with the Kzamm, a tribe of more primitive-looking cannibals. The Kzamm have fire, and Naoh, Amoukar and Gaw determine to steal it. Gaw and Amoukar lure most of the Kzamm away from their encampment. Naoh kills the remaining warriors, but not before being bitten on the genitals by one, which causes him agony. The three Ulam take the Kzamm fire and prepare to head home.\n\nA young woman named Ika, who had been a captive of the Kzamm, follows them. She makes a primitive poultice to help Naoh recover from his injury. Later, Amoukar attempts to rape Ika. She hides near Naoh, who then mounts her himself in front of the other two males.\n\nIka soon recognizes that she is near her home and tries to persuade the Ulams to go with her. When they refuse, they go their separate ways, all the while calling out to them. Eventually Naoh turns around, followed by the reluctant Gaw and Amoukar. After Naoh leaves the others to scout a village, he is trapped in quicksand, nearly sinking to his death, but is discovered and captured by the Ivaka — Ika's tribe. At first, Naoh is subjected to several forms of humiliation by the Ivaka. He is forced to mate with the high-status women of the tribe, who are large and big-breasted. The petite Ika is excluded by her tribe, and when she attempts to lie near him later that night, she is chased away. The Ivaka show Naoh their advanced technology of fire-making.\n\nGaw and Amoukar find Naoh among the Ivaka. They try to rescue him but Naoh seems unwilling to leave. At night, Ika helps them knock Naoh unconscious and escape the camp. The next day, Naoh washes off the Ivaka body paint. He tries to mount Ika again, but she teaches him the more intimate missionary position. Before they can reach their home, the three are beset by rivals from the Ulam tribe, but defeat them using the Ivakan atlatls, which are superior to Ulam weapons. \n\nFinally rejoining the Ulam tribe, the group present the fire to the delight of all. But during the ensuing celebration, the fire is again accidentally extinguished. Naoh tries to create a new fire as he'd seen in the Ivaka camp, but after several failed attempts, Ika takes over. Once the spark is lit, the tribe is overjoyed.\n\nMonths later, Naoh and Ika prepare to have a child.\n\nAntonio Barichievich as a Kzamm tribesman.\n\nSpecial language forms were created by novelist Anthony Burgess, while patterns of movement and gesture were developed by anthropologist Desmond Morris. The more advanced language of the Ivaka was largely that of the Cree/Inuit native people of northern Canada, which caused some amusement among those in this group who saw the film, since the words have little to do with the plot. The Ulam are portrayed as stereotypical cavemen, in an intermediate stage of development compared to the ape-like \"Wagabu\", on one hand, and the culturally more advanced \"Ivaka\" on the other. The Ulam and Ivaka are depicted as light pigmented, the Kzamm as red-haired. The Ivaka are depicted as using body ornamentation (jewelry, body paint, masks, headgear), fully developed language and simple technology such as gourds as vessels and the atlatl. \n\nThe movie was filmed on location in the Scottish Highlands and Tsavo National Park and Lake Magadi in Kenya. The opening sequence was filmed at Cathedral Grove on Vancouver Island, BC (forest scenery) whereas the cave home was filmed at Greig's Caves on the Bruce Peninsula along the Niagara Escarpment near Lion's Head, Ontario.\n\nMichael D. Moore was the associate producer in charge of action and animal scenes.\n\n\"Quest for Fire\" holds a score of 84% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 19 reviews for an average rating of 7.2/10, the critical consensus stating \"Its characters can't do much more than grunt, but that doesn't keep \"Quest for Fire\" from offering a deeply resonant -- and surprisingly funny -- look at the beginning of the human race.\"\n\nRoger Ebert gave the film three-and-a-half stars out of four, writing that he saw it as a \"borderline comedy\" in the opening scenes, \"But then these characters and their quest began to grow on me, and by the time the movie was over I cared very much about how their lives would turn out.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" awarded three stars out of four, stating that \"you may be tempted, as I was, to shout wisecracks at the screen. But then the basic appeal of the story begins to work, and every so often we find ourselves asking ourselves, 'I wonder if that's the way it did happen?' And when that happens, 'Quest for Fire' has you hooked.\" Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" wrote that the film was \"more than just a hugely entertaining science lesson, although it certainly is that. It's also a touching, funny and suspenseful drama about prehumans.\" Sheila Benson of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that she did not know how historically accurate the movie was, \"But this is film making, not carbon dating, and it seems that every piece of magic and the skill of every craft has been used to free our imagination, to let it soar with the film to see what life \"may\" have been like 80,000 years ago.\" Pauline Kael of \"The New Yorker\" wrote, \"It's almost impossible to guess what the tone of this ape-man love story (based on a French novel, by J. H. Rosny, Sr.) is intended to be. Are we meant to laugh at the gaminess? At the men's werewolf foreheads? (Thick hair sprouts about an inch above their eyebrows.) The director, Jean-Jacques Annaud, seems to be willing for us to laugh but not sure about how to tell us when.\"\n\nIn an essay for the journal \"American Anthropologist\", Brown University linguistics professor Philip Lieberman described as \"absurd\" the mixture of different levels of advancement among different tribes living in close proximity. Lieberman pointed out that it \"would be most unlikely 80,000 years ago\" for humans to still be exhibiting apelike characteristics, at the same time noting that the Ivaka tribe was depicted as having \"a village culture that would have been likely 10,000 years ago.\"\n\nThe film was nominated for six César Awards in 1981, including Best Original Screenplay or Adaptation for Gérard Brach, Best Music Written for a Movie for Philippe Sarde, Best Cinematography for Claude Agostini, and Best Sets for Brian Morris, winning those for Best Film and Best Director. In 1983 it won the Academy Award for Best Makeup. Also in 1983, it won in five categories in the Genie Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5800755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5800755", "title": "Russell Freedman", "text": "Russell Freedman\n\nRussell A. Freedman (October 11, 1929 – March 16, 2018) was an American biographer and the author of nearly 50 books for young people. He may be known best for winning the 1988 Newbery Medal with his work \"\".\n\nBooks were an important part of Freedman's life. His father worked for a company, and his mother worked in a bookstore.\n\nHe attended college first at San Jose State University\n\nLater, Freedman worked as a reporter and editor for the Associated Press in San Francisco until the mid-1950s, when he took an advertising job in Manhattan. It was during this time that Freedman wrote his first novel after reading an article about a blind teenage boy who invented a Braille typewriter. The book, \"Teenagers Who Made History\", was published in 1961. After its publication, Freedman quit his job and became a full-time writer.\n\nAs a writer of children's nonfiction, Freedman is often noted for his thorough research, and was praised for his \"meticulous integration of words and images\"\n\nFreedman lived in New York City.\n\n\nIn 1998 Freedman received the Laura Ingalls Wilder Medal from the professional children's librarians, which recognizes a living author or illustrator whose books, published in the United States, have made \"a substantial and lasting contribution to literature for children\". At the time it was awarded every three years.\n\nHe received one of the 2007 National Humanities Medals.\n\n\nEleanor Roosevelt: A Life of Discovery \n\nThe Wright Brothers: How They Invented the Airplane \n\nFranklin Delano Roosevelt \nIndian Chiefs \n\nKids At Work: Lewis Hine and the Crusade Against Child Labor \nAn Indian Winter \n\nChildren of the Wild West \n\nBuffalo Hunt \n\nThe Life and Death of Crazy Horse \nImmigrant Kids \nGetting Born \n"}
{"id": "17585277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17585277", "title": "Saints Row", "text": "Saints Row\n\nSaints Row is an action-adventure video game series created by Volition and published by Deep Silver, that tells the story of a gang called the Third Street Saints; the title comes from the name of the district of the gang's home territory. Typically, gameplay is presented in an open world format because of the mixture of nonlinear gameplay with action-adventure and racing sequences. The series is known for its comedic elements. The games' stories are written as comedies that feature popular culture homages and parodies, as well as self-referential humor.\n\nAfter completing \"Red Faction II\" in late 2002, developer Volition began work on the original \"Saints Row\" game in mid-2003. The game was released in 2006 to critical acclaim and commercial success. The sequel, \"Saints Row 2\", was released in 2008 to similar acclaim but greater commercial success. The series' third entry, \"\", was released on 15 November 2011. The series' fourth entry, \"Saints Row IV\" was released on 20 August 2013, with an expansion called \"\" released on 20 January 2015 in North America and 23 January 2015 in Europe. As of September 2013, the series has had unit sales in excess of 13 million, making it one of the best-selling video game franchises of all time.\n\n\"Saints Row\" is the first installment in the series, having begun development in mid-2003 as a PlayStation 2 title under the name \"Bling Bling\". The game was announced at E3 2005 for the Xbox 360. As the first sandbox style video game to be released for the Xbox 360, \"Saints Row\" was widely anticipated; its pre-beta demo build set records after being downloaded nearly 400,000 times within a week. It had sales in excess of 500,000 during its September 2006 release month, and was critically acclaimed. To date, the game has had sales in excess of two million units. \nThe game is set in the fictional city Stilwater, which is located in the state of Michigan. The player character is inducted into the 3rd Street Saints gang after they save their life, and assists the Saints in eliminating three rival gangs that control the city. After the gangs have been eliminated, police chief Monroe kidnaps the Saints founder Julius Little and offers the player to exchange the gang leader's freedom for mayor Marshall Winslow's life. After Winslow is assassinated, Monroe is murdered by the Saints, and Julius is freed. The other Saints members look towards the player character, considering them their new leader. The new mayor Richard Hughes invites the player character aboard his private yacht and Julius betrays the player by blowing the yacht up and killing everyone but the protagonist on board. The game was renowned for being the first seventh-generation sandbox game, and introduced features which have since become staples to the genre. It introduces online multiplayer, an in-game mobile phone, GPS navigation, and elaborate character and vehicle customization.\n\n\"Saints Row 2\" began development in mid-2006, a few months before the Xbox 360 release of \"Saints Row\". While a PlayStation 3 port of \"Saints Row\" was in development, it was cancelled when \"Saints Row 2\" was confirmed in May 2007. A Microsoft Windows port, announced in June 2008, was released in early 2009. Three downloadable content packs were developed and launched in mid-2009 (for console only), including and .\n\n\"Saints Row 2\" is set years after \"Saints Row\"; having survived the yacht explosion, the player character awakens from coma in a prison hospital and, after escaping, saves Johnny Gat from execution. Together with the newcomers Carlos, Shaundi, and Pierce, they begin to revive the 3rd Street Saints, gradually reclaiming Stilwater from the three gangs that had taken control of the city in the meantime (The Sons of Samedi, The Ronin, and The Brotherhood). The Ultor Corporation, responsible for the redevelopment of the Saint's Row district, eventually recognizes the Saints as a threat and attempts to extinguish them, but the player character assassinates Ultor's CEO Dane Vogel, severely weakening the company. The ending sees the Saints run Stilwater once more. The game builds upon the fundamentals of \"Saints Row\" by improving the respect system, adding more varied activities, increasing the extent to which the player can customize their character, gang, and vehicles, and adding a number of new vehicle models. It expands the Stilwater setting and adds new gameplay features and content.\n\n\"Saints Row 2\" received several downloadable content (DLC) releases, including two story DLCs. The first, \"Ultor Exposed\", adds \"\"-themed content, and stars American pornographic actress Tera Patrick, who plays herself as a whistleblower and former microbiologist for the Ultor Corporation. It was released on 23 April 2009. The second, \"Corporate Warfare\", focuses on the struggle between the 3rd Street Saints and the Ultor Corporation, and was released on 28 May 2009.\n\n\"Saints Row: The Third\" was announced in March 2011. It was released in North America on 15 November 2011, in Europe on 18 November 2011, for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Microsoft Windows platforms. The game began early development at Volition in September 2008, a month before \"Saints Row 2\" was due to release. The player controls the leader of the 3rd Street Saints, who have grown from their humble roots as a street gang into a worldwide crime group. The story centers around the conflict between the Saints and the Syndicate, a rival crime group who seek to take advantage of the Saints' influence. Though the first two \"Saints Row\" games were set in the fictional city of Stilwater, \"Saints Row: The Third\" is set in a new city named Steelport. Steelport is run by three gangs, much like Stilwater was in \"Saints Row\" and \"Saints Row 2\", yet these gangs—Morning Star, the Deckers and the Luchadores—are all under the control of the Syndicate. Later on in the game, a division of the military known as S.T.A.G. is called to Steelport by authorities in an attempt to eradicate all of the gangs in the city.\n\n was announced before the game's November 2011 release along with a commitment from publisher THQ to support 40 weeks of content. Among smaller upgrades, three main content packs were released: \"Genkibowl VII\" (released 17 January 2012), \"Gangstas in Space\" (released 21 February 2012), and \"The Trouble with Clones\" (released 20 March 2012).\n\n\"Saints Row IV\" was unveiled in March 2012 and released in North America on 20 August 2013 and worldwide shortly after on 23 August. The game is set five years after the events of \"Saints Row: The Third\". After the Saints stop a terrorist attack by Cyrus Temple on the United States, the Saints leader has been elected President. Soon after, an alien invasion occurs and the earth is overrun. The majority of the game is set in a simulation of Steelport created by the aliens to break the Saints' wills. In this simulation, the Saints must fight against the enemy for justice of their past and their own worst fears.\n\n\"Saints Row IV\"s first story-driven downloadable content pack, \"Enter the Dominatrix\", is a \"directors cut\" version of the cancelled \"Saints Row: The Third\" expansion of the same name, and was released on 22 October 2013. Its second story DLC, \"How the Saints Saved Christmas\" was released on 10 December 2013.\n\nA standalone expansion to \"Saints Row IV\", called \"\" was released on 20 January 2015 in North America and 23 January 2015 in Europe. The plot revolves around Johnny Gat's attempt to rescue the Boss from Hell after being captured by Satan.\n\nA new game was confirmed after THQ Nordic bought the owners of Saints Row; Deep Silver Volition and Koch Media.\n\nThe \"Saints Row\" series is part of a genre known as sandbox games. The series combines elements of action, adventure and vehicular gameplay. The player can freely roam the virtual world on foot or by use of vehicles and make use of an array of weapon and mêlée based combat. Illegal activity such as assaulting NPC civilians and police officers will instigate a proactive and potentially lethal response from authoritative figures. In the instance of death or arrest, the player will respawn at a nearby hospital or police station.\n\nAn emphasis is put on urban warfare; the player character is affiliated with a hip-hop cultured street gang known as the 3rd Street Saints. Game missions are structurally divided into separate mission arcs. These mission arcs do not intertwine but can be played through altogether at once or separately by the player. Missions are unlocked by accruing respect points; respect is game currency earned by playing non-story mini-games known as activities and diversions. Customization also constitutes a large portion of gameplay. The player has the ability to customize their character's appearance and clothing, can take certain vehicles to chop shops for modification and in \"Saints Row 2\" is able to decorate the interior of in-game safehouses and refine the behaviour of the Third Street Saints gang.\n\nThe setting of both \"Saints Row\" and \"Saints Row 2\" is the fictional city of Stilwater, located in the midwestern state of Michigan, USA. Stilwater is primarily based on the real-world American cities Chicago and Detroit. During the early development process of \"Saints Row\", the city was designed before the script was assembled and was more than four times the size of its final revision but was cropped to a smaller revision because development resources could not support a city of that size but the red light district is largely based on Harlem including Raykins hotel as The cotton club. During its development phase the city went through consistent expansion and cropping; examples such as the shopping mall and trailer park districts in \"Saints Row 2\"s city revision were originally included in early designs of \"Saints Row\"s city revision. A design challenge was creating the city without load-screen interferences and as such the engine was designed to stream around the player's location in individual chunks of the city. The city was designed to feel diverse and have a variance of districts; \"Saints Row\" product art director Matt Flegel commented that \"We wanted the city to cover all styles, from the towering sky scrapers of downtown to the gritty industrial feel of the factory district. We want the player to \"feel\" the changes between the districts, rather than just noticing the visual difference.\" The districts were also designed to feel relevant to the gangs that controlled them.\n\nThe Stilwater of \"Saints Row 2\" is significantly different from its original rendition; the city is 45% bigger than its older counterpart. Much of the city from \"Saints Row\" is redeveloped in \"Saints Row 2\", albeit becoming more \"alive\" and full of depth. \"Saints Row 2\" lead producer Greg Donovan said that \"Stilwater in \"Saints Row 2\" is very different from \"Saints Row\". In fact, every detail has been touched to some degree or another. [...] I think that what will end up happening is that people who played \"Saints Row\" or are fans of the franchise are going to have a great time exploring the city and looking for new things. [Also], people that are new to \"Saints Row 2\" are just going to be presented with a huge, very dispersive and very different looking environment, it's very well polished and detailed.\" There are no in-game load screens in \"Saints Row 2\", a notable feat as the game allows for seamless co-operative play. There are over 130 interiors within the city, including over ninety different shops. The city is more dynamic and lifelike in \"Saints Row 2\", as the artificial intelligence is smarter i.e. civilians will interact with each other. Additionally, certain elements of \"Saints Row 2\"'s environment are destructible as the game shares some technology with the Volition-developed \"\" game. Its environment also features numerous landmarks and Easter eggs; one such feature won \"Top Easter Egg of 2008\".\n\nThe game \"\" is set in the sister city of Steelport, a city that flourished in the 1800s and has since succumbed to economic failure. Steelport's districts are almost distinctly the same, and the city size is smaller than Stilwater but has larger buildings. Steelport's most memorable feature is the large statue on Magarac Island, south-east of downtown Steelport. The statue is that of steel worker Joe Magarac and is a parody of the real-life Statue of Liberty. The overall design and look of Steelport can be changed via progressing through the story. At certain points the player is allowed to choose whether to do one thing over the other, which will change how Steelport's skyline appears. Some of these choices include deciding whether to keep or blow up the Syndicate Tower. A large military ship named the Thermopylae will be located south-east of Steelport after completing the first STAG mission, \"Gang Bang\".\n\n\"Saints Row IV\" is once again set in Steelport, however the city is set in a simulation under control of Zinyak, the game's main villain. Zinyak has changed Steelport to fit his likeness removing all signs of the Saints from the city and replacing them with images of himself, and alien technology can be seen heavily throughout the city. Many missions in \"Saints Row IV\" take place in locations other than the main sandbox of Steelport. The city of Stilwater (the setting of \"Saints Row\" and \"Saints Row 2\") returns for one mission of the game, two missions take place in the 1950s version of Steelport, while Washington, D.C. is featured in the game's introduction.\n\nA spin-off titled \"Saints Row: Undercover\" was being developed by Savage Entertainment for the PSP in 2009 but was cancelled for unknown reasons. On 22 January 2016, Volition found a prototype of the game in a PSP development kit and released it as a free download on Unseen64.net.\n\n\"Saints Row: Money Shot\" was to be a spin-off of the main series, originally developed for Xbox Live Arcade. The game would be available for the Xbox 360 as an Xbox Live Arcade game and for the PlayStation 3 as a PlayStation Network game featuring 3D graphics. The game would have been tied to \"Saints Row: The Third\", as part of the marketing campaign for the game. Playing \"Saints Row: Money Shot\" would have unlocked exclusive content for use in \"Saints Row: The Third\", and vice versa.\n\nOther cancelled games include a Nintendo 3DS title first announced at E3 2010 called \"Saints Row: Drive By\", and a Kinect/PlayStation Move fighting game for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 called \"Saints Row: The Cooler\".\n\nThe events of \"Saints Row\" take place in a shared universe alongside Volition's \"Red Faction\" series and \"Agents of Mayhem\".\n\nThe connections between \"Saints Row\" and Volition's \"Red Faction\" series begin as early as the series' first installment in 2001, \"Red Faction\". The first Red Faction takes place in 2075 and continues the story of The Ultor Corporation, who have begun mining operations on Mars due to Earth's rapidly depleting resources. This storyline is heavily referenced in \"Saints Row 2\" (and its DLC). Despite potential licensing conflicts after Nordic Games purchased the rights to the \"Red Faction\" series in 2013, references to the events of \"Red Faction\" continued to make appearances in the \"Saints Row\" series. On 14 February 2018, Nordic (now known as THQ Nordic) acquired Koch Media, effectively reuniting the \"Red Faction\" and \"Saints Row\" IPs under the same publishing umbrella for the first time since THQ's bankruptcy and acquisition by Nordic.\n\nOn 6 June 2016, Volition released a trailer for a new IP set in the \"Saints Row\" universe, \"Agents of Mayhem\". The game is set in a futuristic Seoul, South Korea, and takes place after the events of \"\"'s \"recreate earth\" ending. The cinematic announcement trailer shows Persephone Brimstone (a character featured in \"Gat Out of Hell\") leading an organization known as \"M.A.Y.H.E.M.\" under the Ultor Corporation's payroll and to stop the terrorist organisation \"L.E.G.I.O.N.\" from destroying the world's nations. \"Agents of Mayhem\" was released on 15 August 2017. Pierce Washington and Oleg Kirlov are two of the game's twelve playable characters, while Johnny Gat and Kinzie Kensington are playable as DLC characters.\n\nBoth \"Saints Row\" and \"Saints Row 2\" received positive reviews for their Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 ports. However, the mobile phone ports of both games as well as the Windows port of \"Saints Row 2\" received a more mixed response. Additionally, the downloadable content packs for \"Saints Row 2\" received mostly average reviews.\n\nThe Xbox 360 port of \"Saints Row\" received generally positive reviews and scores. It received an 82.20% and 81/100 from review aggregators GameRankings and Metacritic respectively. IGN reviewer Douglass Perry awarded the game an 8.5/10, praising the presentation and gameplay while pointing out technical shortcomings as well as the often forced humour. GameSpot reviewer Greg Kasavin awarded the game an 8.3/10, giving credit to the driving, the action, the presentation and the story. However, he criticized the lack of polish and lack of variety in mission design. It was hailed as \"the best reason to own a 360 this side of \"\"\" and a \"must buy\" by GamePro reviewer Vicious Sid, who awarded it five stars out of five.\n\nBoth the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 ports of \"Saints Row 2\" received positive reviews. It received an 83.37% and 82.99% from GameRankings respectively, and 82/100 and 81/100 from Metacritic respectively. GameSpy reviewer Gerald Villoria awarded the game four and a half stars out of five and said that \"\"Saints Row 2\" offers up a shooting and driving experience that is plenty of fun [...] It's self-consciously funny in its irreverence, and its low-brow humor will definitely appeal to much of its audience\". IGN reviewer Nate Ahearn awarded \"Saints Row 2\" an 8.2/10, praising the gameplay but criticizing the lack of polish and the weak artificial intelligence. However, the PC port of \"Saints Row 2\" received a much less positive response. It received an aggregated score of 70.68% and 72/100 from GameRankings and Metacritic.\n\nDan Whitehead of \"Eurogamer\" wrote that \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" was a boon for the \"Saints Row\" series since it allowed the latter to be \"gleeful silly sandbox games\" as the former series took a more serious turn.\n\n\"Saints Row 2\" shipped over two million units for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 during October 2008, the month of its release.\n\nOn 2 November 2011, THQ CEO Brian Farrell announced that \"Saints Row: The Third\" was already the most pre-ordered title in series history. In fact, the game had four times the number of pre-orders Saints Row 2 had two weeks before its launch. THQ estimated the game would ship over 3 million units before the publisher's fiscal year ends in March 2012. By comparison, Saints Row 2 launched in October 2008 and sold 2.6 million by the end of the fiscal year. On 25 January 2012, THQ announced that The Third had shipped 3.8 million units globally and are expecting to ship between five and six million units lifetime on the title.\n\nTo date, the series has roughly sold over 13 million units, including over three million for \"Saints Row 2\".\n\nJohnny Gat appears as a guest character in the parody fighting game \"Divekick\". Pierce Washington is a featured character in the PlayStation VR game \"100ft Robot Golf\".\n\n"}
{"id": "54438400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54438400", "title": "Sanrio Boys", "text": "Sanrio Boys\n\nThe Sanrio Boys were created by Sanrio to promote merchandise for their best-selling characters on social media, a strategy of which has been compared to Twitter accounts run by characters from \"Uta no Prince-sama\". The Sanrio Boys originally consisted of five characters, but has since then expanded to seven. The characters were so well-received that they received their own line of character merchandise starting in June 2016.\n\n\"Sanrio Boys\" was adapted into two manga adaptations written and illustrated by Mai Ando, with both manga series running concurrently. , which features the Sanrio Boys' daily lives, was published on the mobile app \"Manga One\" starting April 2016. , which features one of the Sanrio Boys being romantically involved with a girl, was serialized in the magazine \"Sho-Comi\" starting from its June 2016 issue. Both were compiled into volume format and released under the title \"Sanrio Boys\" under Shogakukan's \"Flower Comics\" label.\n\nA visual novel style dating sim game was released onto Android and iOS under the name on September 13, 2016. The theme song is \"Fun! Fantastic Girl\", produced by Elements Garden and performed by the voice actors of Sanrio Boys. Approximately 100,000 users downloaded the game during the first six days of release.\n\nAn anime adaptation of \"Sanrio Boys\" was announced in the fifth issue of the 2017 edition of Shogakukan's \"Sho-Comi\" magazine. The series is directed by Masashi Kudō and written by Takashi Aoshima, and the anime production is handled by Pierrot. The anime premiered in Japan on January 6, 2018. The series is licensed by Ponycan USA in North America, who are simulcasting the series on Crunchyroll. The anime has 12 episodes.\n\nA stage play titled \"Miracle☆Stage Sanrio Boys\" was announced at the end of episode 12. The play is directed by Masami Itō, with the script written by Shinjirō Kameda, the choreography by Tetsuharu, and the music composed by Yu. The main cast consists of Naoya Kitagawa as Kōta, Hiroki Sasamori as Yū, Tsubasa Yoshizawa as Shunsuke, Yū Miyazaki as Ryō, Shinichi Wagō as Seiichiro, Kōhei Kishi as Subaru Amagaya, and Jin Hiramaki as Naoki.\n\nAs of April 5, 2018 the manga had 200 000 copies in print.\n\n"}
{"id": "20456142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20456142", "title": "Tash Rabat", "text": "Tash Rabat\n\nTash Rabat is a well-preserved 15th century stone caravanserai in At Bashy district, Naryn Province, Kyrgyzstan located at an altitude of 3,200 meters.\n\nTash Rabat is located somewhat east of the main north-south highway. To the south is Lake Chatyr-Kul and Torugart Pass. To the north is Koshoy Korgon, a ruined fortress of uncertain date. The area is a center for hiking and horse-trekking. The caretakers of Tash Rabat offer lodging, consisting of 5 or 6 yurts.\n\nAs early as 1888, Russian doctor and traveler Nicolay Lvovich Zeland suggested that it was originally a Nestorian or Buddhist monastery. Research undertaken at the end of the 1970s and beginning of the 1980s by the Institute of History of the Kyrgyz Academy of Sciences concluded that Tash Rabat was originally built as a Nestorian monastery in the 10th century, although no Christians artifacts were found during excavations.\n\nThe structure consists of 31 rooms, including chambers in the central hall. The rooms are dome-shaped; transition from a quadrangular frame to a dome is done using a squinch. Tash Rabat is completely made of crushed stone on clay mortar with gypsum mortar sealing joints.\n\n"}
{"id": "18960696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18960696", "title": "The Day of the Clown", "text": "The Day of the Clown\n\nThe Day of the Clown is the second story of Series 2 of \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" The two-part serial was broadcast on 6 and 13 October 2008; \"Part One\" on the CBBC Channel at 5.15 p.m. on 6 October; \"Part Two\" on the CBBC Channel at 5.15 p.m. on 13 October. \"The Day of the Clown\" introduces main character Rani Chandra (Anjli Mohindra) and her parents, Haresh (Ace Bhatti) and Gita Chandra (Mina Anwar), and they would stay for the rest of the series.\n\nLuke Smith (Tommy Knight) is struggling to adjust to life without Maria Jackson (Yasmin Paige), she having moved to Washington, D.C. with her father. Meanwhile, the Chandras move into the Jacksons' old house on Bannerman Road and Sarah Jane Smith (Elisabeth Sladen) starts an investigation into disappearing children in the area. Sarah Jane makes Luke and Clyde promise her that they will not reveal her alien investigating secrets to the newcomers to Bannerman Road.\n\nClyde Langer (Daniel Anthony) and Luke meet new girl Rani Chandra at school. After Clyde sees a clown in school prior to the sudden disappearance of a child, Rani reveals she is being stalked by a clown that no one else can see. With Clyde having got into trouble with the new Headteacher, Rani's father, Luke arranges to keep an eye on Rani in his place and goes round to her house to help her unpack. Sarah Jane and Clyde link the disappearances of the children to the Museum of the Circus, Clyde and two of the missing children having received tickets for it. Rani, who wants to become a journalist, begins her own investigation and makes the same connection to the Museum having found a ticket in a school book belonging to one of the missing children and having a ticket herself.\n\nSarah Jane and Clyde explore the Museum of the Circus and encounter Elijah Spellman (Bradley Walsh). Soon they are joined by Rani and Luke and Spellman sets his robotic clowns on the group. Sarah Jane halts the clowns with her sonic lipstick, and Luke theorises that Spellman is an alien. As Sarah Jane, Luke, Clyde and Rani attempt to escape the building, Spellman reveals himself to have been the legendary Pied Piper of Hamelin and now Odd Bob the Clown seeking to feed off their fear.\n\nSarah Jane and the rest escape through the back door. Then Sarah Jane tells Luke about why she's scared of clowns saying that a clown toy in her room apparently came to life when she was young. The next morning, Rani looks out of her bedroom window and sees Odd Bob's balloon in her garden. When she gets to the school she tells Luke and Clyde, then a load of balloons fall down from the sky, all the school children pick them up (apart from Luke, Clyde and Rani) and fall under the spell from Odd Bob, behaving much like the Pied Piper story. But Mr. Smith uses the cellular phone system to interfere with Odd Bob's control and the children are released. Then Odd Bob suddenly kidnaps Luke, and Sarah Jane must face her fears to save Luke. Then Clyde uses his funny jokes to dissipate their fear. Odd Bob requires fear to exist, and without it, he is forced to return to the meteorite he used to come to Earth. Sarah Jane puts the meteorite into a box from which nothing can escape, not even thoughts. In the end, Clyde says how the universe is always full of surprises after everyone gets invited to the Chandra's for dinner.\n\n\nAfter Sarah Jane reveals her fear of clowns, Luke reveals that he knows Johnny Depp is also coulrophobic having read it in \"Heat\". Spellman outlines the history of clowns citing Pharaohs' fools, harlequins, Native American clowns and Mediaeval court jesters, and numerous references are made to the legend of \"The Pied Piper of Hamelin\".\n\n\"Part One\" was first broadcast on the CBBC Channel at 5.15 p.m. on Monday 6 October 2008 and was repeated as part of CBBC on BBC One at 4.35 p.m. on Monday 13 October 2008. It was made available for 14 days after first broadcast on the BBC iPlayer. \"Part Two\" was first broadcast on the CBBC Channel at 5.15 p.m. on Monday 13 October 2008 and was repeated on BBC One at 4.35 p.m. on Monday 20 October 2008.\n\nWriting for \"Dreamwatch\", Matt McAllister asserts that there may not be \"quite enough here to sustain a double-episode worth\" but observes that there are \"memorable scenes, including an ingenious final showdown.\" He states that Walsh is \"appropriately sinister...as Odd Bob the Clown\" and describes Rani as \"likeable\", noting that having her father as the new Headteacher is \"a nice little twist\". McAllister thinks that the story \"owes a big debt to Stephen King’s \"It\"\" (1986) and that it has shades of \"Torchwood\" episode \"From Out of the Rain\" and \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Greatest Show in the Galaxy\". In conclusion, McAllister notes that \"[t]his may not be earth-shattering kids’ TV, but it’s good creepy fun nonetheless.\"\n\nThis was the eighth of eleven Sarah Jane Adventures serials to be adapted as a novel. Written by Phil Ford, the book was first published in Paperback on 6 November 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "55815345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55815345", "title": "The Mary Gloster", "text": "The Mary Gloster\n\n\"The \"Mary Gloster\"\" is a poem by British writer Rudyard Kipling (1865-1936). It is dated 1894, but seems to have been first published in his 1896 collection \"The Seven Seas\".\n\nIt is a deathbed monologue by a wealthy shipowner and shipbuilder, Sir Anthony Gloster, addressed to his only surviving child, his son Dick or Dickie, who does not speak.\n\nThe old man speaks urgently to his son, who has spent his money and broken his heart. He knows that he will die tonight, even if his doctor says that he is good for another fortnight. The monologue does not follow an orderly narrative sequence. Increasingly towards the end, the old man repeats himself, and digresses.\n\nHe was a ship's master at 22, and married (to Mary) at 23. Now, 50 years later, he has made a million (£ sterling, equivalent to about £120M), has 10,000 on his payroll, has 40 freighters at sea, is a \"baronite\" (i.e. baronet), has dined with royalty, and the press have called him \"not the least of our merchant-princes\". He took on jobs which others rejected as too dangerous and, urged on by Mary, saved up enough to buy a half-share in a ship, and then to buy their own ship, the \"Mary Gloster\", the first in his freighter line. Mary died on her, and was buried at sea in the Macassar Straits. He afterwards took to drink; but Mary told him to stop, and he devoted himself to work.\n\nIn London, using his savings, he formed a partnership with a man named M'Cullough and set up a ship-repair foundry. It was successful, and they moved to the Clyde to build ships. Business prospered, the freighter line grew, and he was always one step ahead of his competitors. M'Cullough died; he took advantage of what he found in M'Cullough's private papers, and made his fortune.\n\nHis son, nearer 40 than 30, has disappointed him. He was educated at \"Harrer\" (i.e. Harrow School) and Trinity College, is only interested in arts and society, and is married to a woman who Sir Anthony describes in unflattering terms both physically and personally. Their marriage is childless; whereas Mary was continually pregnant, even though only Dickie survived. Sir Anthony calls his son \"weak, and a liar, and idle, and mean as a collier's whelp nosing for scraps in the galley\". He is leaving Dickie £300,000 (, equivalent to about £37M) in his willbut only the interest from it, the money is tied up in a trust which specifies that it will revert to the business if Dickie dies childless. The wife with her sham tears will hate that. Sir Amthony justifies his affairs with paid women after Mary's death.\n\nDickie goes to depart, but his father stops him. If Dickie does what he will now be asked to do, he will get £5,000 (, equivalent to about £600,000), in cash. Sir Anthony does not want to be buried in the vault he had bought in Woking at a time when he had hoped to establish a family line. His will may be challenged on the grounds that he was not of sound mind when he made it; only Dickie can defend it. He wants to be buried at sea, in the Macassar Straits, at the same location as Mary. Dickie is to ask the company for the loan of \"Mary Gloster\" for a cruise. He is to write to McAndrew, who is Sir Anthony's oldest friend, who works for him, who knew Mary, and who knows his wishes; the company will grant McAndrew leave of absence if Dickie says that this concerns Sir Anthony's business. (Sir Anthony had, after his first stroke, set up arrangements with McAndrew.) The \"Mary Gloster\" is to steam to the Macassar Straits, to a place which Sir Anthony has just described and which McAndrew also knows, with the ship in ballast and Sir Anthony's body in the deck cabin. Once the body is over the side, McAndrew will give Dickie the money and land him at Macassar; then (in an act which Mary would have called wasteful), take \"Mary Gloster\" out to sea, and scuttle her.\n\nThe poem consists of 186 lines, in rhyming couplets, typically with six stresses per line. The metre is in large part an irregular mixture of iambuses (.-) and anapaests (..-).\n\nAmerican-born British poet T. S. Eliot included the poem in his 1941 collection \"A Choice of Kipling's Verse\". He thought that it belonged with another dramatic monologue, \"McAndrew's Hymn\" (1893). He saw both as owing something of a debt to Robert Browning, and as being \"metrically and intrinsically ballads\". He shared the popular verdict that \"McAndrew's Hymn\" is the more memorable, but did not find it easy to say why. He found both poems equally successful. The greater memorability may be because there is \"greater poetry in the subject matter. It is McAndrew who creates the poetry of Steam [...]\". On the other hand, Lord Birkenhead, writing in 1947, considered \"The \"Mary Gloster\"\" to be the more successful of the two. More recently, one writer has seen parallels between \"The \"Mary Gloster\"\" and Swinburne's poetry. More recently still, David Gilmour (2003) has also seen similarities to Browning.\n\n\"McAndrew's Hymn\" mentions a time when one McAndrew was \"Third on the \"Mary Gloster\"\". \"The \"Mary Gloster\"\" involves a McAndrew who is \"Chief of the Maori Line\", a \"stiff-necked Glasgow beggar\", who has prayed for the protagonist's soul, who is incapable of lying or stealing, and who will command the \"Mary Gloster\" on its final voyage. The descriptions of the two men are not inconsistent. Internal dating evidence in the two poems (insofar as that can be trusted in works of the imagination) is also not inconsistent.\n\nIn 1921, American travel writer E. Alexander Powell wrote, 'Our course took us within sight of \"the Little Paternosters, as you come to the Union Bank,\" where, as you may remember, Sir Anthony Gloster, of Kipling's ballad of The Mary Gloster, was buried beside his wife'. In 2008, British historian John Charmley (not all of whose works are accepted without question) compared Sir Anthony to Conservative Prime Minister Bonar Law and Dickie to his predecessor Arthur Balfour. Later in 2008, British journalist Peter Stothard said that \"The \"Mary Gloster\"\" had been or was a favourite poem both of American writer Mark Twain and of British politician Margaret Thatcher.\n\n"}
{"id": "22905489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22905489", "title": "The Snowman (fairy tale)", "text": "The Snowman (fairy tale)\n\n\"The Snowman\" is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen about a snowman who falls in love with a stove. It was published by C.A. Reitzel in Copenhagen as \"Sneemanden\" on 2 March 1861. Andersen biographer Jackie Wullschlager describes the tale as a lyrical and poignant complement to Andersen's \"The Fir-Tree\" of December 1844.\n\nWullschlager believes \"The Snowman\" was the product in part of Andersen’s \"pining and discontent over\" Harald Scharff, a handsome young dancer at the Royal Theatre in Copenhagen. According to Wullschlager, the two men entered a relationship in the early 1860s that brought the poet \"some kind of sexual fulfillment and a temporary end to loneliness.\" It was the only homosexual affair during Andersen's life that brought him happiness.\n\n\"The Snowman\" begins with its eponymous hero standing in the garden of a manor house watching the sun set and the moon rise. He is only a day old, and quite naïve and inexperienced. His sole companion is a watchdog who warns him that the sun will make him run into the ditch. The dog senses a change in the weather, enters his kennel and goes to sleep.\n\nAt dawn, the land is covered in frosty whiteness when a young couple enter the garden to admire the scene and the Snowman. When they leave, the dog tells the Snowman the couple are sweethearts who will someday move into \"the same kennel and share their bones\". He then recounts happier days when he slept under the stove in the housekeeper's room as a pampered pet. The Snowman can see the stove through a window in the house and believes it is female. He falls in love. The Snowman longs to be in the room with the stove, but the dog warns him he would melt.\n\nAll day the Snowman gazes upon the stove, and, at twilight, the stove glows. When the door of the room is opened, the flames leap out of the stove and glow upon the snowman's face and chest. He is delighted. In the morning, the window is covered with frost and the Snowman cannot see the stove. He is stove-sick and cannot enjoy the frosty weather. The dog warns the snowman of an imminent change in the weather. A thaw descends, and, one morning, the Snowman collapses. The dog finds a stove poker used to build the Snowman within his remains, and then understands why the Snowman longed for the stove: \"That's what moved inside him... Now he is over that, too!\" The girls in the house sing a springtime carol and the snowman is forgotten.\n\nScholars have noted Andersen was attracted to both men and women during his middle years. Andersen biographer Jackie Wullschlager observes, \"Andersen's diaries leave no doubt that he was attracted to both sexes; that at times he longed for a physical relationship with a woman and that other times he was involved in physical liaisons with men.\" Andersen biographer Alison Prince comments, \"It is obvious that Andersen struggled throughout his life with a painful sense of greatness and of being different from others. This was partly due to the suppressed homosexuality which set him apart in loneliness and forced him to take refuge in the safer and more conventional image of the talented and hypersensitive poet...\" Both believe \"The Snowman\" has its source and inspiration in Andersen's relationship with a young male ballet dancer associated with the Royal Theater in Copenhagen.\n\nIn 1857 in Paris, he made the acquaintance of fellow Dane Harald Scharff, a handsome and highly regarded young ballet dancer with Copenhagen's Royal Theatre. Andersen was returning to Copenhagen via Paris following a visit to Charles Dickens in England, and Scharff was on holiday with his Copenhagen housemate, the actor Lauritz Eckardt. Andersen and Scharff toured Notre Dame together. Three years passed before Andersen again met the pair quite by accident in Bavaria in July 1860; the three men enjoyed a week together in Munich and its environs. It is probable that Andersen fell in love with Scharff at this time. According to his diary, Andersen did not \"feel at all well\" when the two young men left Munich on 9 July 1860 for Salzburg.\n\nFollowing the departure of Scharff and Eckardt for Salzburg, Andersen traveled to Switzerland but grew despondent and then depressed. In November, he returned to Copenhagen and spent Christmas at Basnæs, the estate of an aristocratic patron and friend on the coast of Zealand. His spirits lifted with the holiday festivities and \"The Snowman” was composed on New Year’s Eve 1860. It was published with several other new tales by Andersen two months later on 2 March 1861 in \"New Fairy Tales and Stories. Second Series. First Collection. 1861.\" by the Copenhagen publisher C. A. Reitzel.\n\nAndersen's relationship with Scharff continued to develop and early in 1862 the two entered a relationship that brought Andersen \"joy, some kind of sexual fulfillment and a temporary end to loneliness.\" Andersen referred to this time in his life as his \"erotic period\", but he was not discreet in his conduct with Scharff and displayed his feelings much too openly. Onlookers regarded the relationship as improper and ridiculous. The affair came to an end late in 1863 as Scharff gradually withdrew to focus on his friendship with Eckardt who had married an actress. Andersen noted in his diary 13 November 1863: \"Scharff has not visited me in eight days; with him it is over.\" Andersen took the end of the affair calmly and the two former lovers thereafter met in overlapping social circles without bitterness. Andersen tried several times to lure Scharff into another intimate relationship but without success.\n\nAndersen retained story ideas in his mind sometimes for years before coalescing with an event or mood in his life, and telling stories such as “The Snowman” was a compulsion with him. The tale has been described as poignant and lyrical, and as a self-mocking autobiographical revelation in which Andersen expressed his conviction that love is a burning, unreciprocated pain, and that he would end his life partnerless and alone. The light-hearted Snowman is a complement to Andersen’s tragic Fir Tree and, in telling the tale, Andersen returns “to his earlier, tragicomic mode of sketching the fleeting autobiography of an everyday object which seems to have caught his eye at random and yet whose life story has an uncanny appropriateness to its physical form.”\n\nAndersen referred to \"The Snowman\" as a simple fairy tale, but the story may be viewed as a metaphor for life. The Snowman remains frozen to the ground, questioning fate, existence, and all that he sees and experiences. In this respect, the Snowman shares a common bond with Hamlet—both grope for what is hidden, for the real behind the surface. But there the similarities end. Scholars Jackie Wullschlager and Alsion Prince argue that Andersen's tales are expressions of his homosexuality, and Graham Robb author of \"Strangers: Homosexual Love in the 19th Century\" calls his work an \"Aesop of 19th-century homosexuality\". and many of his heroes the victims of an unpopular sexual preference. \"The Snowman\" is a tale about misguided love, about a snowman who falls in love with what he believes is a female stove, and is Andersen's best argument for the price paid for falling in love with the wrong type–with the stove representing the danger in this \"wrong\" relationship. Andersen spent a lifetime seeking validation by women and experienced only the pain of unreciprocated love. His diaries reveal Andersen resorted to masturbation as a sexual outlet, and one critic notes that \"[Andersen] so fabulously struck out with the ladies that it seems he simply expanded his dating pool to men to hedge his bets.\"\n\nAndersen biographer Alison Prince believes the tale to be a parable representing the different kinds of love. When the Snowman asks the dog why a young man and woman stroll about the wintry garden hand-in-hand, the disillusioned old dog tells him the two are engaged and will soon be moving into \"the same kennel together and sharing each other's bones\". The Snowman has a different idea of love, being enamored of the stove. Prince considers the image of the poker found within the Snowman's remains \"a homoerotic image of such potency that a failure to spot it seems inconceiveable.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51666417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51666417", "title": "Wedding Bible (gift)", "text": "Wedding Bible (gift)\n\nA wedding Bible is a Bible either used for officiating in some wedding ceremonies, or a special edition gift presented to the couple. Oxford University Press produced \"The Oxford Wedding Bible\" in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "1766611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1766611", "title": "William Lynch speech", "text": "William Lynch speech\n\nThe William Lynch speech is an address purportedly delivered by a certain William Lynch (or Willie Lynch) to an audience on the bank of the James River in Virginia in 1712 regarding control of slaves within the colony. The letter purports to be a verbatim account of a short speech given by a slave owner, in which he tells other slave masters that he has discovered the \"secret\" to controlling black slaves by setting them against one another. The document has been in print since at least 1970, but first gained widespread notice in the 1990s, when it appeared on the Internet. Since then, it has often been promoted as an authentic account of slavery during the 18th century, though its inaccuracies and anachronisms have led historians to conclude that it is a hoax.\n\nThe reputed author, William Lynch, identifies himself as the master of a \"modest plantation\" in the British West Indies who has been summoned to the Virginia Colony by local slaveowners to advise them on problems they have been having in managing their slaves.\n\nHe briefly notes that their current violent method of handling unruly slaves – lynching, though the term is not used – is inefficient and counterproductive. Instead, he suggests that they adopt his method, which consists of exploiting differences such as age and skin color in order to pit slaves against each other. This method, he assures his hosts, will \"control the slaves for at least 300 hundred years.\" Some online versions of the text attach introductions, such as a foreword attributed to Frederick Douglass, or citations falsely giving Lynch's name as the source of the word \"lynching\".\n\nThe text of the speech has been published since at least 1970. It appeared on the internet as early as 1993, when a reference librarian at the University of Missouri–St. Louis posted the document on the library's Gopher server. The librarian later revealed that she had obtained the document from the publisher of a local annual business directory, \"The St. Louis Black Pages\" in which the narrative had recently appeared. \n\nThough eventually convinced the document was a forgery, the librarian elected to leave it on the Gopher server, as she believed that \"even as an inauthentic document, it says something about the former and current state of African America\", but added a warning about its provenance.\n\nThe text contains numerous anachronisms, including words and phrases such as \"refueling\" and \"fool proof\" which were not in use until the early 20th century, while historian Roy Rosenzweig noted the divisions emphasized in the text – skin color, age, and gender – are distinctly 20th-century in nature, making little sense in an 18th-century context.\n\nAs such, historians such as Rosenzweig and William Jelani Cobb of Spelman College regard the William Lynch speech as a hoax.\n\nForewords attached to some online versions of the speech credit the narrator's name as the source of the terms \"lynching\" and \"Lynch law\", despite the narrator specifically advocating against lynching. A man named William Lynch did indeed claim to have originated the term during the American Revolutionary War, but he was born in 1742, thirty years after the alleged delivery of the speech. A document published in the \"Southern Literary Messenger\" in 1836 that proposed William Lynch as the originator of \"lynch law\" may have been a hoax perpetrated by Edgar Allan Poe. A better documented early use of the term \"Lynch law\" comes from Charles Lynch, a Virginia justice of the peace and militia officer during the American Revolution.\n\nNation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan quoted the speech at the Million Man March in October 1995, making the speech better known in the process. He later cited Willie Lynch's scheme as an obstacle to unite African Americans in his open letter regarding the Millions More Movement in 2005. The speech was also quoted during the protests surrounding the 2001 presidential inauguration. Denzel Washington's character quoted extensively from the speech in a scene from the 2007 movie, \"The Great Debaters\". Hip-Hop artist Talib Kweli of the rap duo Black Star references the speech in the song \"RE:DEFinition\" from the album \"Mos Def & Talib Kweli Are Black Star\". Hip-Hop artist Xzibit refers to Willie Lynch in his 2012 song \"Napalm\" from his album \"Napalm\": \"Still suffer from the ideology of Willie Lynch.\" Hip-Hop artist Kendrick Lamar refers to Willie Lynch in his 2015 song off of his junior album \"To Pimp A Butterfly\" \"Complexion (A Zulu Love)\": \"Let the Willie Lynch theory reverse a million times.\" Raekwon from the Hip-Hop group Wu-Tang Clan refers to Willie Lynch in the group's 2014 song, \"A Better Tomorrow (2014),\" off the album with the same title: \"And that's the Willie Lynch tactics that separated the masses. Taught us all to think backwards.\"\n\n"}
