{"id": "5952284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5952284", "title": "Administrative detention", "text": "Administrative detention\n\nAdministrative detention is arrest and detention of individuals by the state without trial, usually for security reasons. A large number of countries, both democratic and undemocratic, resort to administrative detention as a means to combat terrorism, to control illegal immigration, or to protect the ruling regime.\n\nUnlike criminal incarceration (imprisonment) imposed upon conviction following a trial, administrative detention is a forward-looking mechanism. While criminal proceedings have a retrospective focus – they seek to determine whether a defendant committed an offense in the past – the reasoning behind administrative detention often is based upon contentions that the suspect is likely to pose a threat in the future. It is meant to be preventive in nature rather than punitive (see preventive detention). The practice has been criticized by human rights organizations as a breach of civil and political rights.\n\nAdministrative detentions are defined in the law of many of the world's states. In democratic countries using administrative detention as a counter-terrorism measure, the rationale given by its proponents is that legal existing systems are ill suited to handle the specific challenges presented by terrorism. Proponents of administrative detention maintain that criminal law's reliance on defendant rights and strict rules of evidence cannot be used effectively to remove the threat of dangerous terrorists. Some of the reasons often used to support this claim are that the information used to identify terrorists and their plots may include extremely sensitive intelligence sources and methods, the disclosure of which during trial would undermine future counter-terrorism operations. It is also claimed that the conditions under which some suspected terrorists are captured, especially in combat zones, make it impossible to prove criminal cases using normal evidentiary rules. Proponents also maintain that criminal prosecution is designed primarily to punish past behavior, thus it is deliberately skewed in favor of defendant, in order to assure that few, if any, innocents are punished. Counter-terrorism, on the other hand, aims to prevent future action, and thus requires a system that is weighed more heavily toward reducing the possibility of future harm, by ensuring that no guilty party will go free.\n\nThe Laws of War are also seen by the proponents as inadequate. These laws allow the capture of enemy fighters, and also allow holding them for the duration of hostilities without trial. However, these laws grew out of the need to regulate combat between professional armies accountable to a sovereign state, who were engaged in combat of possibly lengthy, but finite duration. Attempting to apply these laws to terrorists who are intermingled with a civilian population and accountable to no-one opens the possibility of indefinite detention without trial, combined with a substantial likelihood of error.\n\nOpponents of administrative detention challenge the above assumptions. While acknowledging the need to protect the sources and methods used to obtain sensitive intelligence, they maintain that existing laws, such as the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and the Classified Information Procedures Act (CIPA), successfully balance the need to protect sensitive information, including the sources and means of intelligence gathering, with defendants' fair trial rights. They point to the historical record of prosecutors who were able to obtain convictions against terrorists on the basis of existing laws. Opponents maintain that in essence, administrative detention is a form of collective punishment. Since it does not require proof of individual guilt, it attributes to all members of a group the actions of a few.\n\nMany countries utilize administrative detention to hold illegal immigrants – those arriving at a country's borders without proper authorization – as an interim step to either deportation or the obtainment of proper legal status. Immigration detention is controversial because it presents a clash between traditional notions of individual liberty and the territorial sovereignty of states. Comparative studies on administrative detention practices of different countries found that those experiencing large-scale influxes of illegal migrants by sea (such as the United States and Australia) typically have the most draconian systems. Proponents of administrative detention for illegal immigrants claim that detention is required since these immigrants have not committed any crime for which they could be prosecuted under existing laws, and that allowing them to await their potential deportation while not in custody runs a risk of their absconding. Opponents maintain that alternatives to detention exist, and that such alternatives are preferable because they do not violate personal liberty, as well as being less of a financial burden to the state. Among the alternatives suggested are supervised release to a non-governmental organization (NGO), the release into the custody of a private citizen who will guarantee the immigrant's participation in immigration hearings, and \"open detention\" centers with mandatory reporting requirements.\n\nIn many non-democratic countries, administrative detention is used by the ruling regime to suppress dissent and sanction opponents of the government. In Asia in particular, administrative detention was first introduced by the British and French colonial authorities prior to and during World War II. Created as a mechanism to control political dissent, it has ironically survived and made its way into the law books of the now-independent former colonies, who legitimized its use against their own political opponents in their constitutions. In many cases, they were and codified as \"emergency measures\" or \"internal security\" acts. Bangladesh, India, Malaysia, Myanmar, Pakistan, Singapore and Sri Lanka are notable examples of such former colonies who hold political prisoners under administrative detention which has its legal roots in British colonial practices. Vietnam is an example where administrative detention was widely used by the French colonial authorities in the 1930s, to arrest those suspected of Communist activities. Post-independence, the now-ruling Communist authorities have employed very similar means to detain those suspected of ``counter-revolutionary\" offenses.\nSome of these political prisoners, such as Aung San Suu Kyi in Myanmar, have become known worldwide due to the detention, and their cause is championed by human rights organizations.\n\nArmenia has been criticized by Human Rights Watch for not fully reforming the legal framework it inherited from the former Soviet Union, and failing to bring its administrative detention system into accord with prevailing international norms. During the 2003 Presidential elections, Armenian police arbitrarily applied the Code of Administrative Offenses, under which administrative detention is authorized, to lock up dozens of opposition activists and supporters for periods of up to fifteen days.\n\nLike many other countries experiencing large scale illegal immigration, such as Canada and the United States, Australia has a system of mandatory administrative detention for illegal immigrants, or asylum seekers who arrive at its shores without proper visas. The legal basis for this system is found in Australia's Migration Act 1958 (Cth), which authorized the indefinite detention of an unlawful non-citizen who can not be deported immediately. Human Rights Watch criticized this Australian policy, claiming it seriously contravenes Australia's obligations to non-citizens, refugees and asylum seekers under international human rights and refugee law. Additionally, opposition to the system on humanitarian grounds came from a range of religious, community and political groups including the National Council of Churches in Australia, Amnesty International, the Australian Greens and Rural Australians for Refugees\n\nAdministrative detentions in Brazil are admitted only for members of the military. Any member of the Brazilian Armed Forces may be imprisoned if found to be repeatedly in violation of the Military Disciplinary Regulations (\"Regulamento Disciplinar\") by his or her superiors. Each military branch has issued a list of \"transgressions\" in their Disciplinary Regulations. The harshest punishment of this kind, in the Brazilian Army, is a 30-day imprisonment penalty.\n\nNotwithstanding, members of the Brazilian Armed Forces under administrative detention may be granted a \"habeas corpus\" by the justice system to deliver them from imprisonment. They retain their full rights as citizens.\n\nIn an overview that describes Myanmar as \"one of the most repressive countries in Asia\", Human Rights Watch quotes a Red Cross report that states that in 2002, there were approximately 3,500 detainees in Myanmar, of which 1,300 are political prisoners, including parliament members. Burmese authorities often extend the detention of prisoners who have already served their prison sentences, by placing them under administrative detention. This practice is used even with elderly and infirm prisoners. One of the most notable cases of this practice was the detention of Aung San Suu Kyi.\n\nThe use of administrative detention in China has been commonplace since before 1949. At that time, it was used primarily against minor offenders as well as against opium addicts, prostitutes, vagrants and those considered to be insane. Since the 1978 legal reforms in China, the public security organs (gong'an jiguan), primarily the police, hold administrative detention powers which are used alongside the state's criminal justice system. Administrative detention is used against subjects that are viewed by the ruling regime as \"socially undesirable\", in order to maintain public order, social stability and political stability of the ruling regime. This target group includes prostitutes and their clients, drug addicts, political dissenters and petty criminals, who perform legal misdemeanors that are not serious enough for criminal prosecution. Custody and repatriation (Chinese: 收容遣送; Pinyin: shōuróng qiǎnsòng) was also used until 2003 for people, especially peasants, who did not have required papers.\n\nThere are three main forms of these administrative detentions: \"detention for education\" (\"Shourong jiaoyu\"), coercive drug rehabilitation (\"Qiangzhi jiedu\"), and \"reeducation through labor\" (\"Laodong jiaoyang\"). In addition, administrative detention is used for several internal security reasons, such as detention under the Security Administrative Punishments Law (\"Xingzheng juliu\"); Administrative detention for questioning of suspects (\"Luizhi panwen\"); and detention of juvenile offenders in work-study schools (\"Gongdu Xuexiao\")\n\nThe use of administrative detention in China has been criticized by international human rights organizations, as well as by domestic groups. These criticisms maintain that the police often abuse their power, that the execution of these powers is at the complete discretion of the police, and that there are no legal constraints placed on their execution.\n\nEgypt's Emergency Law No. 162 of 1958 authorizes the government to suspend basic civil liberties by declaring a state of emergency. Such a state of emergency has been in force almost continuously since 1967. Acting under this law, Egyptian authorities have administratively detained individuals who were suspected of membership in banned organizations such as the Muslim Brotherhood, as well as individuals engaged in peaceful demonstrations expressing opposition to the war in Iraq or support for the Palestinian uprising. Human Rights Watch has criticized this practice as the use of emergency legislation for 'repression of public dissent'. Amnesty International charges that relatives of political prisoners in Egypt have been administratively detained solely because of their family relationship. The Egyptian government refuses to disclose how many administrative detainees are held, but human rights groups estimate that 16,000-20,000 are held in detention without charge.\n\nIreland utilizes administrative detention to control illegal immigration. Beginning in 1996, a legal framework was put in place to authorize the use of administrative detention for this purpose. This legal framework includes the Refugee Act, 1996, the Immigration Acts, 1999, 2003 and 2004, and the Illegal Immigrants (Trafficking) Act 2000. According to official Irish government statistics, in 2003-2004, a total of 2,798 people were administratively detained for immigration-related reasons, two thirds of whom were held in prison for periods of longer than 51 days. The vast majority (more than 90%) of detainees are held in one of two Dublin prisons, Cloverhill Prison (male detainees) and the Dóchas Centre at Mountjoy Prison (female detainees). The rest are held in prisons as well as border control (Garda Síochána) stations.\n\nThe Council of Europe and human rights organizations have criticized the overcrowded conditions in which the detainees are held, as well as the fact that detainees are held together with convicted criminals. In addition, Human Rights Consultants have reported that Irish law does not protect the rights of detainees, by not informing them of their right to challenge the legality of their detention, nor recognizing their rights to have access to a lawyer and to have access to medical care.\n\nThe legal basis for Israel's use of Administrative Detention is the British Mandate 1945 Defence (Emergency) Regulations which were amended in 1979 to form the Israeli Law on Authority in States of Emergency. Administrative detention is for six-month terms, although they can be extended barring appeal. Administrative detention is also used in cases where the available evidence consists of information obtained by the security services (particularly the Shin Bet), and where a trial would reveal sensitive security information, such as the identities of informers or infiltrators.\n\nAlthough it is commonly applied to alleged Palestinian militants, it has occasionally been applied to Jewish Israeli citizens, including Jewish right-wing public-figures and activists (notably in the aftermath of the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin) and in more recent years sometimes to settlers for short periods.\n\nWithin Israel, the Minister of Defense has the authority to issue Administrative Detention orders for up to 6 months in cases where there is a reasonable chance that the person harms the security of the state. The same officeholder has the authority to renew such orders. Likewise, the Chief of the General Staff can issue such orders, but valid for only 48 hours. Law enforcement authorities have to show cause within 48 hours (in a hearing behind closed doors). Administrative Detention orders can be appealed to the District Court and, if denied there, to the Supreme Court of Israel. The District Court can annul such orders if it finds the administrative detention occurred for reasons other than security (mainly for common crimes or the exercise of freedom of expression). Overall supervisory authority on the application of the relevant law rests with the Minister of Justice.\n\nWithin the West Bank and Gaza Strip, any Israeli district army commander can issue an administrative detention order, and the order can be appealed at the Israeli district military court, or, if denied there, at the Supreme Court. Here too, an administrative detention order is valid for at most six months, but can be renewed by the appropriate authority. Israel refers its use of administrative detention in the occupied territories to Article 78 of the Fourth Geneva Convention 1949, which states that \"If the Occupying Power considers it necessary, for imperative reasons of security, to take safety measures concerning protected persons, it may, at the most, subject them to assigned residence or to internment.\"\n\nAccording to Addameer, Israel held 285 Palestinians in administrative detention in June 2012. Eighteen of them were members of parliament, out of 4,706 prisoners. According to B'Tselem, as of April 2012, about 308 Palestinians were being held under administrative detention by the Israel Prisons Service (IPS) and statistics on those held by the IDF were unavailable. According to IPS figures for December 2012, 178 Palestinians were being held in administrative detention (without charge or trial). As of December 2013, B'Tselem reported that 140 Palestinians were being held under administrative detention by the IPS.\n\nIn August 2015, the Israeli Government has approved the usage of administrative detention against Israeli terror suspects in order to combat the growing \"price tag\" conflict.\n\nIn Japan, immigration detention is a form of administration detention under the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act, Act No. 319 of 1951 (ICRRA). Minors and asylum seekers can also be subject to administrative detention.\n\nThe Crime Prevention Law (No. 7 of 1954) in Jordan authorizes administrative detention. Authority resides with Jordan's provincial governors and the administrators of provincial subdivisions. The law allows the detention of anyone \"about to commit a crime or to assist in its commission\", people who \"'habitually' steal, shelter thieves, or fence stolen goods\" or anyone deemed to present \"a danger to the people\" if they are not detained. Although the Crime Prevention Law does not provide a legal basis for the use of administrative detention for \"protective custody\", the law was routinely used until 2007 to detain women at risk of violence, honor killing by family members for example. The use of the law in this way has been criticized by the United Nations and Human Rights Watch. In 2007, the government opened the Wifaq Center for women at risk of violence, and in 2008, women who had been in protective custody were transferred from prison to the center, although the practice of sending women to prison for \"protective custody\" using the Crime Prevention Law has not completely ceased. Detained women cannot obtain their own release, the transfer must be approved by the family members who have threatened the women. According to Jordan's National Centre for Human Rights, administrative detention was used in 11,870 cases in 2008, 16,050 in 2009, 12,345 in 2010, and 11,345 in 2011. The law does not provide for independent or court review of the administrative detention decisions although detainees can petition the High Court of Justice.\n\nLegislative Decree No. 51 of 22 December 1962 introduced the State of Emergency Law, which came into force on 8 March 1963, that allowed the security forces to hold suspects in preventive detention without judicial oversight for indefinite periods.\n\nThe United Kingdom has maintained many forms of administrative detention over the years. The most recent forms were a series of Acts intended to introduce a form of administrative detention to Northern Ireland under the auspices of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 1974. This Act allowed the security forces to apprehend and detain persons suspected of terrorist activities without trial for an unlimited period. The introduction of the Act led directly to the creation of internment camps (particularly Long Kesh (the Maze) and the prison ship HMS \"Maidstone\" where suspects were detained, some for protracted periods.\nThe Act of 1974 was amended a number of times during the late 20th and early 21st century, the most recent incarnation being the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2005 which introduced the concept of the control order, itself a more politically palatable means of limiting the freedom of a suspect without the need to provide a court of law with \"prima facie\" evidence of any wrongdoing.\n\nThe United States currently uses indefinite detention without trial – known under various names as internment, civil commitment, preventive detention or administrative detention – to hold people who fall within a few narrow categories, including the mentally ill (involuntary commitment), and \"sexually violent predators\", though the right of habeas corpus still applies, and some determinations regarding mental illness and sexual dangerousness are made by juries.\n\nDuring World War II, the United States detained over 100,000 Japanese Americans in internment camps; smaller numbers of German Americans and Italian Americans were interned.\n\nThe United States also utilizes administrative detention as a counter-terrorism measure, and as a means to control illegal immigration. There are approximately 100,000 persons in removal proceedings at any one time, and about 31,000 held in detention during these proceedings.\n\nFollowing the September 11 attacks, the Patriot Act was passed. The Act expanded the authority of law enforcement agencies to use administrative detention for the stated purpose of fighting terrorism in the United States and abroad. Under the Act, any person (citizen or alien) suspected of terrorist connections may be administratively detained for up to seven days without the benefit of an \"habeas corpus\" proceeding. The Attorney General of the United States, at his discretion, may extend this seven-day period to six months, and this extension itself may be renewed indefinitely – legally creating the possibility of lifetime imprisonment without ever facing charges. One of the criticisms of the PATRIOT Act is that the Attorney General's decision is not subject to any judicial review, unlike the situation in other democratic countries which have similar administrative detention laws.\n\nAs part of the War on Terror, and particularly during and after the War in Afghanistan, U.S. forces captured hundreds of terrorists, who were subsequently detained without trial at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp. The United States initially refused to grant these detainees prisoner of war status, holding that they were illegal enemy combatants because they did not meet the requirements set down by the Third Geneva Convention. Of the 775 detainees incarcerated at Guantanamo, 420 have been released without charge, and only one has been tried and convicted. U.S. authorities claim that they intend to put 60 to 80 more on trial.\n\nAdministrative detention practices have come under severe criticism, with critics claiming that it breaches human rights.\nAmnesty International believes that administrative detention breaches Article 9 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) which \"makes clear that no-one should be subjected to arbitrary detention and that deprivation of liberty must be based on grounds and procedures established by law\". The ICCPR does allow a government, under narrow circumstances, such as a public emergency threatening the life of a nation, to temporarily derogate from its obligation not to engage in arbitrary detention.\n\nAmnesty International is also concerned that prisoners of conscience are being \"held solely for the non-violent exercise of their right to freedom of expression and association\".\n\nThe United Nations has created the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention on the issue. One of the issues the group has focused on is the determination whether a detention is arbitrary or not – which is not as clear-cut in the case of administrative detention as it is in the case of criminal arrest. The group has proposed certain guidelines to aid in such determination. For example, it has suggested that any deprivations of liberty that violate the freedom of association must be deemed arbitrary. Based on these guidelines, the group has condemned countries who have used long-term administrative detention when the detainees were held for the mere fact of belonging to an \"illegal organization\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3705062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3705062", "title": "Andre Gurode", "text": "Andre Gurode\n\nAndre Bernard Gurode (; born March 6, 1978) is a former American football center and guard who played 11 seasons in the NFL. He played college football for the University of Colorado, earning consensus All-American recognition. The Dallas Cowboys selected him in the second round of the 2002 NFL Draft. He is a five-time Pro Bowl selection, and has also played for the Baltimore Ravens, Chicago Bears, and Oakland Raiders.\n\nGurode was born in Houston, Texas. He played high school football at North Shore High School in Houston. As a senior, \"USA Today\", PrepStar and SuperPrep selected him as an honorable mention high school All-America. He was also named to the \" Houston Chronicle\" Top 100 List and made the Austin American-Statesman \"Fab 55\" team. He earned All-Area honors as a senior (second team honors as a junior), and was All-District and All-Greater Houston as a junior and senior (when he also was his team's most outstanding offensive lineman).\n\nGurode lettered three times in basketball and four times in track with personal bests of 186' 0\" in the discus and 54' 1\" in the shot put.\n\nGurode attended the University of Colorado, where he played for the Colorado Buffaloes football team from 1998 to 2001. He was a four-year starter for the Buffaloes, playing both center and guard on the offensive line. He started his first two and a half seasons at center, before moving to guard in the middle of his junior year. As a junior in 2000, he started the first six games of the year at center and the final five games at guard. He received the John Mack Award, as selected by the coaches for being Colorado's most outstanding offensive player and was also selected honorable mention All-Big 12 Conference honors while helping the Buffaloes to a 7–5 record and a win over the Boston College Eagles in the Insight.com Bowl. As a senior, he started every game at right guard.\n\nGurode was a first-team All-Big 12 selection in 2000 and 2001, and was recognized as a consensus first-team All-American as a senior in 2001. During his career he allowed just 7.5 sacks in 2,653 plays as a starter for the Buffaloes.\n\nHe earned a degree in ethnic studies from the University of Colorado, where he was a member of the school's \"Academic Starters\" team.\n\nGurode initially projected as a guard and was ranked the best available in the 2002 NFL Draft, along with Kendall Simmons. He was regarded as an early second round pick, and was eventually selected 37th overall by the Dallas Cowboys.\n\nGurode was drafted by the Dallas Cowboys in the second round of the 2002 NFL Draft as a center. He started fast by becoming the first rookie in club history to start at center on opening day.\n\nIt is believed 2002 was the first time a NFL franchise had five African-American starters on their offensive line, when the Cowboys lined up Gurode at center, tackles Flozell Adams and Solomon Page, guards Larry Allen and Kelvin Garmon. Gurode also became part of history as the starting center on the Cowboys offensive line that helped Emmitt Smith eclipse Walter Payton as the NFL's all-time leading rusher, playing against the Seattle Seahawks on October 27. While he started the first six games of the 2002 season at center, Gurode was moved to help compensate for the number of injuries along the offensive line, compiling another eight starts at right guard.\n\nIn 2003, Bill Parcells was hired as the Cowboys head coach and decided that Gurode's best position was at guard, starting 15 games at that position in 2003 and 13 games in 2004 with mixed results, before getting benched for the final two games.\n\nAt the start of the 2005 season, Parcells accepted he made a misjudgment by moving Gurode to guard and switched him back to center, with the Cowboys also signing Marco Rivera to take his place at guard. That season, he was a versatile backup, playing behind Al Johnson at center and Rivera at right guard.\n\nIn 2006, he rededicated himself to football and won the starting center job again, over Al Johnson. On October 1, 2006, in the third quarter of a game against the Tennessee Titans, Titans defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth stomped on Gurode's head. Haynesworth's cleats caused a laceration requiring thirty stitches. Haynesworth was ejected, and subsequently suspended by the NFL for five games without pay.\n\nFollowing the 2006 season, Gurode was named to his first Pro Bowl as an injury replacement. On February 20, 2007, the Cowboys re-signed Gurode to a six-year contract worth US$30 million including a $10 million signing bonus.\n\nGurode developed into one of the league's most respected centers since returning to being a full-time starter in 2006, and has been selected to the All-Pro Team (2007, 2009), as well as to five straight Pro Bowls (2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010)\n\nHe had offseason left knee surgery and missed the 2011 season training camp and three out of four preseason games. With the emergence of second-year player Phil Costa, he was released after the preseason following failed negotiations regarding a restructured contract.\n\nGurode reportedly visited the Detroit Lions and New England Patriots before signing a 1-year, $3 million contract with the Baltimore Ravens on September 4, 2011.\n\nOn November 27, 2012, the Chicago Bears signed Gurode after losing guards Lance Louis and Chris Spencer to injuries sustained in a game against the Minnesota Vikings on November 25. He was waived by the Bears on December 11, 2012.\n\nOn July 26, 2013, Gurode signed with the Oakland Raiders. At the end of the 2013 NFL season Gurode became a free agent.\n\n"}
{"id": "2699775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2699775", "title": "Annette Kolodny", "text": "Annette Kolodny\n\nAnnette Kolodny (born August 21, 1941, New York, N.Y., U.S.) is a feminist literary critic and activist, and currently holds the position of College of Humanities Professor Emerita of American Literature and Culture at the University of Arizona in Tucson. Her major scholarly writings examine the experiences of women on the American frontiers and the projection of female imagery onto the American landscape. Her other writings examine some aspects of feminism after the 1960s; the revision of dominant themes in American studies; and the problems faced by women and minorities in the American academy. \nCapping what was already a long and distinguished career, in 2012 Annette Kolodny published \"In Search of First Contact: The Vikings of Vinland, the Peoples of the Dawnland, and the Anglo-American Anxiety of Discovery\" (Duke University Press). The influential magazine \"Indian Country Today\" immediately named it as one of the 12 most important books in Native American Studies published in 2012. The Western Literature Association awarded the book the Thomas Lyon Prize as \"the best book in Western literary and cultural studies published in 2012.\" Professor Kolodny had earlier made her mark in the field of Native American Studies with the publication of the long-lost 1893 masterpiece of Native American literature, Joseph Nicolar's \"The Life and Traditions of the Red Man\" (Duke University Press, 2007). This new edition included an interpretive analysis of Nicolar's text as well as a fascinating history of the Penobscot Nation in Maine. These two latest books mark the culmination of a scholarly career that began with studies of the American frontiers and moved into breakthrough examinations of trans-Atlantic contacts between Europeans and Native Americans.\n\nKolodny was born in New York City to Esther Rifkind Kolodny and David Kolodny. She did her undergraduate work at Brooklyn College, from which she graduated Phi Beta Kappa magna cum laude in 1962. After graduation, she took a position on the editorial staff at \"Newsweek\". Kolodny left to return to graduate studies in 1964, citing a desire “to teach people to think critically and because she wanted to be able to publish her own ideas, not merely report the ideas of others.\" Her M.A. and Ph.D. work were completed at the University of California, Berkeley, and she earned the latter degree in 1969. Her first teaching position at Yale University was cut short as she left after a year to move to Canada with her husband, whose draft board appeal for conscientious objector status for the duration of the Vietnam War was rejected. Finding a position at the University of British Columbia, she helped develop western Canada’s first accredited interdisciplinary women’s studies program before returning to the United States in 1974 to teach at the University of New Hampshire.\nIn New Hampshire, she wrote her first major work of feminist eco-criticism, \"The Lay of the Land: Metaphor as Experience and History in American Life and Letters\" (1975). While the book got positive reviews and pioneered the field of feminist ecocriticism, Kolodny was denied promotion and tenure in the English Department at the University of New Hampshire. (Richter 1387) Active in the student movements while in Berkeley, she continued to advocate for the right to establish a program in women’s studies. She later sued the University of New Hampshire charging sex discrimination and anti-Semitism. She settled with the \"largest financial award in history in a case of this kind\". She used this money to establish the Legal Fund of the Task Force on Discrimination for the National Women's Studies Association (NWSA), an organization she had helped found, and served as director of the task force from 1980 to 1985. The Task Force is now renamed Feminists Against Academic Discrimination within the NWSA.\n\nKolodny taught at several universities, including the University of Maryland and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute before being named Dean of the College of Humanities at the University of Arizona in Tucson. Following her tenure as dean, which spanned from 1988 to 1993, Kolodny was named College of Humanities Professor of American Literature and Culture at the University of Arizona. Currently, she is Professor Emerita of Comparative Cultural and Literary Studies at the University of Arizona in Tucson.\n\nIn 1993 she was elected to lifetime membership in the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nHer books have won many awards both in the United States and abroad. Over the course of her scholarly career, Kolodny has received grants and fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Ford Foundation, the Guggenheim Foundation, the Rockefeller Humanities Fellowship, and others. She retired from the University of Arizona in July 2007 and has continued an active professional life as a consultant in higher education policy issues and as a scholar of American literature and culture.\n\nKolodny’s first two books were \"The Lay of the Land: Metaphor as Experience and History in American Life and Letters\" (University of North Carolina Press, 1975) and \"The Land Before Her: Fantasy and Experience of the American Frontiers, 1630-1860 \"(University of North Carolina Press, 1984); both of these texts deal with environmental concerns and the historic destruction of the land (Jay 217). Based on her experience as a senior administrator in higher education, Kolodny published \"Failing the Future: A Dean Looks at Higher Education in the Twenty-First Century\" (Duke University Press, 1998), which \"details the extent to which women and non-white students are still outsiders on American campuses.\" The book also examines the status of the humanities disciplines in higher education, the value of tenure, and the need for family friendly policies on campus. It is a book about needed educational innovations in the twenty-first century.\n\nKolodny is also well known for two essays published in 1980: \"Dancing Through the Minefield: Some Observations on the Theory, Practice, and Politics of a Feminist Literary Criticism\" (\"Feminist Studies\", Spring 1980) and \"A Map for Re-Reading: Gender and the Interpretation of Literary Texts\" (\"New Literary History\", Spring 1980). Of these, \"Dancing Through the Minefield\" is the most well-known, and has been called \"the most reprinted essay of American feminist literary criticism\". It has been translated and reprinted worldwide.\n\nIn 2007, Kolodny published a long-lost masterpiece of Native American literature, Joseph Nicolar’s \"The Life and Traditions of the Red Man\" (Duke University Press), originally published in 1893. Nicolar’s work traces the history of his people, the Penobscot Nation, from the first moments of creation through the arrival of the white man. Kolodny’s reprint of this important work includes a history of the Penobscot Nation and an interpretive introduction to the text. It was stipulated that the royalties from this text go to the Penobscot. In 2012, Kolodny published \"In Search of First Contact: The Vikings of Vinland, the Peoples of the Dawnland, and the Anglo-American Anxiety of Discovery\" (Duke University Press). A major contribution to the field of American Studies, this book examines both Native American and Euroamerican stories of first contacts between the peoples of the New and Old Worlds. It examines the competition between Leif Eiriksson and Christopher Columbus for the title of \"first discoverer\".\n\nIn her first book, \"The Lay of the Land\", Kolodny explores the colonization of America, both in reality and in the realm of metaphor. She examines \"the continued repetition of the land-as-woman symbolization in American life and letters\" (Kolodny, ix). The projection of female imagery onto the landscape was essential to its colonization, she argued; in her introduction, she asks, \"was there perhaps a need to experience the land as a nurturing, giving maternal breast because of the threatening, alien, and potentially emasculating terror of the unknown?\" (9) By construing the land as female, she argued, it was possible for the colonists to remove some of the terror and mystery from an unknown land. Instead, it became either a nurturing maternal figure, existing to provide sustenance, or a passive virginal figure, existing only to be dominated, sexually or otherwise. With these metaphors firmly in sight, the colonists had a framework through which to view the vast stretches of North America as less alien and terrifying. Through an examination of several male writers, such as Philip Freneau, James Fenimore Cooper, and John James Audubon, Kolodny pursues the implications of this metaphorically female land.\n\nDifferent chapters of the book correspond to different chronological eras after the discovery and colonization of the Americas and to different metaphorical mindsets as manifested in the writings of the authors considered. In chapter 2, \"Surveying the Virgin Land: The Documents of Exploration and Colonization, 1500–1740\", the comparison of the land to an untouched, virginal paradise begins the exploration. Chapter 3, \"Laying Waste Her Fields of Plenty: The Eighteenth Century\", discusses the romanticized agrarian and pastoral ideals that coloured the view of America, especially in its comparisons to ideal lands like Elysium and Arcadia, and the consequences that arose from such ideals, such as the exploitation and alteration of the land. Chapter 4, \"Singing Her Past and Singing Her Praises: The Nineteenth Century\", examines the dual images of Mother and Mistress in the land, as well as the frustration of the pastoral impulse with the closing of the American frontier and the victory of the industrialized North in the American Civil War. Finally, chapter 5, \"Making It with Paradise: The Twentieth Century\", deals with the increase of industrialization and the yearning both \"to return to and to master the beautiful and bountiful femininity of the new continent.\" (139)\n\nFreudian and psychoanalytic influences are apparent in this text, especially in the \"psychosexual dynamic of a virginal paradise\" (Kolodny, \"Land Before Her\", 3). It also has tones of ecofeminism, which will be discussed below.\n\nIn the preface to this book, Kolodny states that \"[t]he purpose of this study is to chart women’s private responses to the successive American frontiers and to trace a tradition of women’s public statements about the west.\" (Kolodny, \"Land Before Her\", xi) Thus, she approaches the same topic as that of \"Lay of the Land\" (\"landscape as a symbolic…realm\" [xii]), but from a different direction. In the writings she examined, she noticed a different theme from that of the male writers:\n\nLike their husbands and fathers, women too shared in economic motives behind emigration; and like the men, women also dreamed of transforming the wilderness. But the emphases were different…Avoiding for a time male assertions of a rediscovered Eden, women claimed the frontiers as a potential sanctuary for an idealized domesticity. Massive exploitation and alteration of the continent do not seem to have been a part of women’s fantasies. They dreamed, more modestly, of locating a home and a familial human community within a cultivated garden. (xii–xiii)\n\nThere is little sense of the conquering-of-the-frontier mentality that Kolodny discovered in the male writers she discussed in \"Lay of the Land\". There were no triumphant heroes of the order of Daniel Boone or Davey Crockett; rather, the narratives of these women focused on the triumph of domesticity and order in a wild land.\n\nThe book is organized chronologically, in much the same way as \"Lay of the Land\". The first section is titled \"Book One: From Captivity to Accommodation, 1630-1833\", and traces the writings of and about women as they moved from captivity both literal (Mary Rowlandson’s account of being captured by Native Americans) and figurative (the sense of being forcibly confined in a new and strange land) to adaptation in the form of survival skills, such as those reputedly possessed by Rebecca Boone, the wife of Daniel Boone. Book two, \"From Promotion to Literature, 1833–1850\", follows attempts to encourage women to move westward by male writers to western narratives by the women themselves. The third and final section, \"Book Three: Repossessing Eden, 1850–1860\", documents the attempts by women to create a familiar order in a still unfamiliar country.\n\nBoth of these books relate to a subgenre of feminism called ecological feminism or ecofeminism, a social and political doctrine that posits a relationship between the subjugation of women and the destruction of nature. Ecofeminists theorize that a culture based on dominating women is directly connected to social ideals that promote the environmental abuse of the earth. \n\nThese two books have a connection to ecofeminism, particularly \"Lay of the Land\". The feminization of the land and the images of the earth as a passive, giving female figure show the social ideas that ecofeminism protests against. Likewise, \"The Land Before Her\" exemplifies the same ideas from a different point of view in the ideal of the domestic garden, or the altering of nature.\n\nPerhaps her best known work, Kolodny’s 1980 essay \"Dancing Through the Minefield\" was the \"first work to attempt both a survey of the first ten years of feminist literary inquiry and an analysis of the informing theoretical propositions\". It has been the subject of criticism in the years since its initial publication, but can still be seen as a guide to \"feminist concerns and methodologies.\"\n\nKolodny emphasizes Social constructionism in this essay, although she herself never uses the term. Briefly, social constructionism is a school of thought that involves looking at the ways social phenomena are created, by people. (See full article on Social constructionism) Using this theory, social entities are seen as always being in a state of change as society itself changes, and the relationships of the entities change. \"[T]hings in the world … are the products of ongoing social processes of interaction, and thus do not have fixed or inherent meanings.\"\n\nIn \"Dancing Through the Minefield\", Kolodny applies this theory to the literary canon, those works of literature that are considered appropriate for study. But such a canon is formed by critics whose values of aestheticism are not neutral. The critical interpretation is formed by the interaction between two objects: the text and the reader. According to Kolodny, the reader’s ability to read any given text is shaped by the social conventions and assumptions of their time and place; Reading becomes a social product. But neither is the text pure; it is also moulded by social relations and customs. So any critical interpretation is necessarily a product of two forms of social construction. \"Readers and texts are both made — and they are continually being remade.\" The dynamic nature of both texts and readers must be taken into consideration when examining any text, or the established criticism of that text.\n\nKolodny’s essay has a clear theoretical outline. In light of the social constructionist view that aesthetic values, as assigned to the literary canon, are in actuality the products of social conventions and values, Kolodny claims that feminist criticism should \"discover how aesthetic value is assigned in the first place\" (Kolodny 2147) and then assess the socially-constructed reading patterns that lead to those value judgements. \"Having become embroiled in value disagreements, feminism should consider the processes underlying value judgements.\" \"Dancing Through the Minefield\" outlines a three-part nucleus assumed by most contemporary feminist literary critics to be essential. First, any construction of a literary canon is a social construction; second, readers unconsciously engage texts from a certain point-of-view; and third, this unconscious bias present in all readers must be consciously and critically re-examined. \n\nFirst, she writes, \"literary history…is a fiction.\" (Kolodny 2153) This refers to the traditional formation of the literary canon and literary history as a social construction. Literary histories define the major, minor, and ignored texts according to their own social values and conventions, not out of any inherent aesthetic value on the text itself. For example, the western literary canon has been largely created by well-educated white men, and the focus of the canon is therefore on works by well-educated white men. It embodied, as well as upheld, the dominant ideology of the time, and had implications beyond aesthetic values. To give preference to texts by this group was to ignore texts created by other social groups. In recent years, the monolithic nature of the canon has been challenged, and works by previously ignored sections of the literary world (women, homosexuals, and ethnic minorities) have gained some footholds in the canon.\n\nSecondly, readers of texts \"engage…not texts but paradigms.\" (2155) Just as texts and canons are socially constructed, so are the vantage points from which readers engage with any given text. This was also mentioned by Stanley Fish, who called these vantage points interpretive communities. Kolodny states that \"we appropriate meaning from a text…according the critical assumptions or predispositions (conscious or not) that we bring to it.\" (2155)\n\nFinally, Kolodny \"strives to undo the unconsciousness of the reader identified\" in the second part of her theory:\n\nSince the grounds upon which we assign aesthetic value to texts are never infallible, unchangeable, or universal, we must re-examine not only our aesthetics but, as well, the inherent biases and assumptions informing the critical methods which (in part) shape our aesthetic responses. (Kolodny 2158)\nThese three general theoretical principles are then supported by the concept of pluralism. Pluralism in this context refers to a conscious effort not to limit oneself to a single critical approach when reading a text. Rather, the object of pluralism is to make use of multiple critical approaches and to get a fuller appreciation of the variety of meanings which can be present in a single text. Kolodny specifically refers to a feminist pluralism, which validates \"multiple interpretations of various texts\" according to the usefulness of a pluralistic view of a text. This method of reading would give equality to different approaches as well as allow critical examinations of those same approaches, which in turn helps create the \"broad critical awareness\" advocated by Kolodny’s third principle as outlined above.\n\nThe essay emphasizes the real situation of contemporary women. Kolodny believes that feminism and women’s studies should not be confined to books or classrooms. “[I]deas are important because they determine the ways we live, or want to live, in the world” (Kolodny 2164); ideas are therefore not meant to exist in a vacuum. Rather, they must be taken into the world through activism.\n\nSeveral authors have criticized \"Dancing Through the Minefield\". The most well-known of these criticisms appeared in a collaborative article Kolodny wrote with Judith Gardiner, Elly Bulkin, and Rena Patterson entitled \"An Interchange on Feminist Criticism: On ‘Dancing Through the Minefield’\", which was published in the journal \"Feminist Studies\" in 1983. \n\nBoth Bulkin and Patterson believe that Kolodny, while speaking to women in her essay, is only speaking to a certain group of women — those who are white, middle class, and heterosexual. Patterson states that \"despite its language and intent, [the essay]…represents classist, white, and heterosexist attitudes which are common in feminist literary criticism and which contradict the best of feminist thought and the aims of the women's movement\" (Patterson, 654). This is a common criticism of second-wave feminism: that it tended to ignore the problems of non-white and non-heterosexual women in favor of a homogenized white heterosexual feminist culture. However, Kolodny’s advocacy of the concept of pluralism may offset this claim. While she does not specify that alternative critical approaches should come from different ethnicities or sexualities, there is no reason why they could not and such inclusion would only increase the scope of the \"broad critical awareness\" mentioned above.\n\nGardiner, on the other hand, disagrees with Kolodny about the use of pluralism. While there can be no single ideology to which all feminist theories belong, Gardiner writes, there are some strong ideological concepts that define areas of feminism. Examples of this would include liberal feminism, socialist feminism, and ecofeminism. In Gardiner’s view, the strong ideological beliefs shared by these groups would \"limit their susceptibility to pluralism.\" (Gardiner 634)\n\nKolodny’s 1998 book is not a work of literary criticism, but rather one of institutional criticism. After serving as dean of Humanities for five years at the University of Arizona, Kolodny wrote this book in order to outline some of the problems facing academic institutions. These include the ability of legislators and administrators to make uninformed decisions about budget cuts without realizing the effect of such cuts on quality education; a myriad of problems about tenure and promotions processes, which Kolodny believes still reflect an attitude antagonistic to women or ethnic minorities; a problem with anti-feminist and anti-intellectual harassment; the lack of support available for students with children; the extent to which women and non-whites are still considered outsiders on university campuses; and the effect of an outdated curriculum in the face of greater demographic diversity and changing student learning needs. She outlines a number of changes which can be made to improve conditions and, realizing that any substantial change will require equally substantial money, encourages government reinvestment in higher education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16046999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16046999", "title": "BCK algebra", "text": "BCK algebra\n\nIn mathematics, BCI and BCK algebras are algebraic structures, introduced by Y. Imai, K. Iséki and S. Tanaka in 1966, that describe fragments of the propositional calculus involving implication known as BCI and BCK logics.\n\nAn algebra formula_1 of type formula_2 is called a \"BCI-algebra\" if, for any formula_3, it satisfies the following conditions. (Informally, we may read formula_4 as \"truth\" and formula_5 as \"formula_6 implies formula_7\".)\n\nA BCI-algebra formula_13 is called a \"BCK-algebra\" if it\nsatisfies the following condition:\n\nA partial order can then be defined as \"x\" ≤ \"y\" iff x * y = 0.\n\nA BCK-algebra is said to be \"commutative\" if it satisfies:\nIn a commutative BCK-algebra \"x\" * (\"x\" * \"y\") = \"x\" ∧ \"y\" is the greatest lower bound of \"x\" and \"y\" under the partial order ≤.\n\nA BCK-algebra is said to be bounded if it has a largest element, usually denoted by 1. In a bounded commutative BCK-algebra the least upper bound of two elements satisfies \"x\" ∨ \"y\" = 1 * ((1 * \"x\") ∧ (1 * \"y\")); that makes it a distributive lattice.\n\nEvery abelian group is a BCI-algebra, with * defined as group subtraction and 0 defined as the group identity.\n\nThe subsets of a set form a BCK-algebra, where A*B is the difference A\\B (the elements in A but not in B), and 0 is the empty set.\n\nA Boolean algebra is a BCK algebra if \"A\"*\"B\" is defined to be \"A\"∧¬\"B\" (\"A\" does not imply \"B\").\n\nThe bounded commutative BCK-algebras are precisely the MV-algebras.\n\n"}
{"id": "16105212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16105212", "title": "Battery electric vehicle", "text": "Battery electric vehicle\n\nA battery electric vehicle (BEV), pure electric vehicle or all-electric vehicle is a type of electric vehicle (EV) that uses chemical energy stored in rechargeable battery packs. BEVs use electric motors and motor controllers instead of internal combustion engines (ICEs) for propulsion. They derive all power from battery packs and thus have no internal combustion engine, fuel cell, or fuel tank. BEVs include - but are not limited to - motorcycles, bicycles, scooters, skateboards, rail cars, watercraft, forklifts, buses, trucks, and cars.\n\nIn 2016 there were 210 million electric bikes worldwide used daily. Cumulative global sales of highway-capable light-duty pure electric car vehicles passed the one million unit milestone in September 2016. , the world's top selling highway legal all-electric car in history is the Nissan Leaf with global sales of over 300,000 units, followed by the Tesla Model S with more than 200,000 units delivered worldwide.\n\nVehicles using both electric motors and internal combustion engines are examples of hybrid electric vehicles, and are not considered pure or all-electric vehicles because they cannot be externally charged (operate in charge-sustaining mode) and instead they are continually recharged with power from the internal combustion engine and regenerative braking.\n\nHybrid vehicles with batteries that can be charged externally to displace some or all of their internal combustion engine power and gasoline fuel are called plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV), and run as BEVs during their charge-depleting mode. PHEVs with a series powertrain are also called range-extended electric vehicles (REEVs), such as the Chevrolet Volt and Fisker Karma.\n\nPlug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) are a subcategory of electric vehicles that includes battery electric vehicles (BEVs), plug-in hybrid vehicles, (PHEVs), and electric vehicle conversions of hybrid electric vehicles and conventional internal combustion engine vehicles.\n\nIn China, plug-in electric vehicles, together with hybrid electric vehicles are called new energy vehicles (NEVs). However, in the United States, neighborhood electric vehicles (NEVs) are battery electric vehicles that are legally limited to roads with posted speed limits no higher than 45 miles per hour (72 km/h), are usually built to have a top speed of 30 miles per hour (48 km/h), and have a maximum loaded weight of 3,000 lbs.\n\nThe concept of battery electric vehicles is to use charged batteries on board vehicles for propulsion. Battery electric cars are becoming more and more attractive with the advancement of new battery technology (Lithium Ion) that have higher power and energy density (i.e., greater possible acceleration and more range with fewer batteries) and higher oil prices.\n\nBEVs include automobiles, light trucks, and neighborhood electric vehicles.\n\n\nChattanooga, Tennessee operates nine zero-fare electric buses, which have been in operation since 1992 and have carried 11.3 million passengers and covered a distance of , they were made locally by Advanced Vehicle Systems. Two of these buses were used for the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.\n\nBeginning in the summer of 2000, Hong Kong Airport began operating a 16-passenger Mitsubishi Rosa electric shuttle bus, and in the fall of 2000, New York City began testing a 66-passenger battery-powered school bus, an all-electric version of the Blue Bird TC/2000. A similar bus was operated in Napa Valley, California for 14 months ending in April, 2004.\n\nThe 2008 Beijing Olympics used a fleet of 50 electric buses, which have a range of with the air conditioning on. They use Lithium-ion batteries, and consume about . The buses were designed by the Beijing Institute of Technology and built by the Jinghua Coach. The batteries are replaced with fully charged ones at the recharging station to allow 24-hour operation of the buses.\n\nIn France, the electric bus phenomenon is in development, but some buses are already operating in numerous cities. PVI, a medium-sized company located in the Paris region, is one of the leaders of the market with its brand Gepebus (offering Oreos 2X and Oreos 4X).\n\nIn the United States, the first battery-electric, fast-charge bus has been in operation in Pomona, California since September 2010 at Foothill Transit. The Proterra EcoRide BE35 uses lithium-titanate batteries and is able to fast-charge in less than 10 minutes.\n\nIn 2014, the first production model all-electric school bus was delivered to the Kings Canyon Unified School District in California’s San Joaquin Valley. The bus was one of four the district ordered. This battery electric school bus, which has 4 sodium nickel batteries, is the first modern electric school bus approved for student transportation by any state.\nThe same technology is used to power the Mountain View Community Shuttles. This technology was supported by the California Energy Commission, and the shuttle program is being supported by Google.\n\nThunder Sky (based in Hong Kong) builds lithium-ion batteries used in submarines and has three models of electric buses, the 10/21 passenger EV-6700 with a range of under 20 mins quick-charge, the EV-2009 city buses, and the 43 passenger EV-2008 highway bus, which has a range of under quick-charge (20 mins to 80 percent), and under full charge (25 mins). The buses will also be built in the United States and Finland.\n\nTindo is an all-electric bus from Adelaide, Australia. The Tindo (aboriginal word for sun) is made by Designline International in New Zealand and gets its electricity from a solar PV system on Adelaide's central bus station. Rides are zero-fare as part of Adelaide's public transport system.\n\nProterra's EcoRide BE35 transit bus, called the Ecoliner by Foothill Transit in West Covina, California, is a heavy duty, fast charge, battery-electric bus. Proterra's ProDrive drive-system uses a UQM motor and regenerative braking that captures 90 percent of the available energy and returns it to the TerraVolt energy storage system, which in turn increases the total distance the bus can drive by 31–35 percent. It can travel 30–40 miles on a single charge, is up to 600 percent more fuel-efficient than a typical diesel or CNG bus, and produces 44 percent less carbon than CNG.\n\nFor most of the 20th century, the majority of the world's battery electric road vehicles were British milk floats. The 21st century saw the massive development of BYD electric trucks.\n\nIn March 2012, Smith Electric Vehicles announced the release of the Newton Step-Van, an all-electric, zero-emission vehicle built on the versatile Newton platform that features a walk-in body produced by Indiana-based Utilimaster.\n\nBYD supplies DHL with electric distribution fleet of commercial BYD T3.\n\nA battery-powered electric car is an automobile which is propelled by electric motors.\n\nAlthough electric cars often give good acceleration and have generally acceptable top speed, the lower specific energy of production batteries available in 2015 compared with carbon-based fuels means that electric cars need batteries that are fairly large fraction of the vehicle mass but still often give relatively low range between charges. Recharging can also take significant lengths of time. For journeys within a single battery charge, rather than long journeys, electric cars are practical forms of transportation and can be recharged overnight.\n\nElectric cars have the potential of significantly reducing city pollution by having zero tail pipe emissions.\nVehicle greenhouse gas savings depend on how the electricity is generated. With the current US energy mix, using an electric car would result in a 30 percent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.\nGiven the current energy mixes in other countries, it has been predicted that such emissions would decrease by 40 percent in the UK, 19 percent in China, and as little as 1 percent in Germany.\n\nElectric cars are expected to have a major impact in the auto industry given advantages in city pollution, less dependence on oil, and expected rise in gasoline prices. World governments are pledging billions to fund development of electric vehicles and their components. The US has pledged in federal grants for electric cars and batteries. China has announced it will provide to initiate an electric car industry.\n\nIn 2015, it was the first time BYD also ranked first in accumulated global sales throughout an entire year – with a total of over 43,073 NEVs sold (a >220% surge compared to last year), exceeding all American, Japanese and European leaders to date. \n\nCumulative global sales of highway-capable battery electric cars and vans passed the 1 million unit milestone in September 2016. The Renault-Nissan Alliance is the leading all-electric vehicle manufacturer. The Alliance achieved the sales milestone of 350,000 all-electric vehicles delivered globally in August 2016. Ranking second is Tesla Motors with over 139,000 electric cars sold between 2008 and June 2016.\n\n, the world's top selling highway capable all-electric car in history is the Nissan Leaf, released in December 2010, with global sales of more than 250,000 units, followed by the Tesla Model S with more than 158,000 units delivered worldwide. Ranking next are the BMW i with about 65,500 units, and the Renault Zoe with 61,205 units, both through December 2016. Until June 2016 the Mitsubishi i-MiEV family ranked fifth with about 37,600 units delivered globally. The Renault Kangoo Z.E. utility van is the leader of the light-duty all-electric segment with global sales of 25,205 units through December 2016.\n\nFormula E is a fully electric international single seater championship. The series was conceived in 2012, and the inaugural championship started in Beijing on 13 September 2014. The series is sanctioned by the FIA. Alejandro Agag is the current CEO of Formula E.\n\nThe Formula E championship is currently contested by ten teams with two drivers each (after the withdrawal of Team Trulli, there are temporarily only nine teams competing). Racing generally takes place on temporary city-center street circuits which are approximately 2 to 3.4 km (1.2 to 2.1 mi) long. Currently, only the Mexico City ePrix takes place on a road course, a modified version of the Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez.\nElectric vehicles produce no GHG emissions, at the tailpipe.\nSo they are considered 'green' because they have no emissions in the place where they are used.\nHowever, battery electric vehicles can be considered Zero emission engines only locally, because they generally produce GHG in the power plants where electricity is generated. \nThe two factors driving these GHG emissions of Battery Electric Vehicles are:\nThe Carbon Intensity of electricity can largely vary, depending on the electricity mix of the geographic region where electricity is consumed (a Country with high shares of renewables in his electricity mix will have a low C.I.).\nIn the European Union, in 2013, the Carbon Intensity had a strong geographic variability, but in almost all the Member States Electric vehicles were \"greener\" than conventional ones. On average, Electric car saved 50%-60% of CO2 emissions compared to diesel and gasoline fuelled engines. \nMoreover, the de-carbonisation process is constantly reducing the GHG emissions due to the use of Electric Vehicles. In the European Union, on average, between 2009 and 2013 there was a reduction of the electricity Carbon Intensity of 17%. In a Life-cycle assessment perspective, considering the GHG necessary to build the battery and its end-of-life, the GHG savings are 10-13% lower.\n\nSpecial-purpose vehicles come in a wide range of types, ranging from relatively common ones such as golf carts, things like electric golf trolleys, milk floats, all-terrain vehicles, neighborhood electric vehicles, and a wide range of other devices. Certain manufacturers specialize in electric-powered \"in plant\" work machines.\n\nThree-wheeled vehicles include electric rickshaws, a powered variant of the cycle rickshaw.\nThe large-scale adoption of electric two-wheelers can reduce traffic noise and road congestion but may necessitate adaptations of the existing urban infrastructure and safety regulations.\n\nFrom India, AVERA new and renewable energy company is going to launch two models of electric scooters at the end of 2018, with Lithium Iron Phosphate Battery technology.\n\nChina has experienced an explosive growth of sales of non-assisted e-bikes including scooter type, with annual sales jumping from 56,000 units in 1998 to over 21 million in 2008, and reaching an estimated 120 million e-bikes on the road in early 2010. China is the world's leading manufacturer of e-bikes, with 22.2 million units produced in 2009. Some of the biggest manufacturers of E-bikes in the world are BYD, Geoby.\n\nAn increasing variety of personal transporters are being manufactured, including the one-wheeled self-balancing unicycles, self-balancing scooters, electric kick scooters, and electric skateboards.\n\nSeveral battery electric ships operate throughout the world, some for business. Electric ferries are being operated and constructed.\n\nThe motor controller receives a signal from potentiometers linked to the accelerator pedal, and it uses this signal to determine how much electric power is needed. This DC power is supplied by the battery pack, and the controller regulates the power to the motor, supplying either variable pulse width DC or variable frequency variable amplitude AC, depending on the motor type. The controller also handles regenerative braking, whereby electrical power is gathered as the vehicle slows down and this power recharges the battery. In addition to power and motor management, the controller performs various safety checks such as anomaly detection, functional safety tests and failure diagnostics.\nMost electric vehicles today use an electric battery, consisting of electrochemical cells with external connections in order to provide power to the vehicle. \n\nBattery technology for EVs has developed from early lead-acid batteries used in the late 19th Century to the 2010s, to lithium-ion batteries which are found in most EVs today. The overall battery is referred to as a battery pack, which is a group of multiple battery modules and cells. The battery pack powering modern EVs can have as little as 96 battery cells to as many as 2,976 cells.\n\nElectric cars have traditionally used series wound DC motors, a form of brushed DC electric motor. Separately excited and permanent magnet are just two of the types of DC motors available. More recent electric vehicles have made use of a variety of AC motor types, as these are simpler to build and have no brushes that can wear out. These are usually induction motors or brushless AC electric motors which use permanent magnets. There are several variations of the permanent magnet motor which offer simpler drive schemes and/or lower cost including the brushless DC electric motor.\n\nOnce electric power is supplied to the motor (from the controller), the magnetic field interaction inside the motor will turn the drive shaft and ultimately the vehicle's wheels.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21467298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21467298", "title": "Belgian Linguistic Case (No. 2)", "text": "Belgian Linguistic Case (No. 2)\n\nThe Belgian Linguistic case (No. 2) (1968) 1 EHRR 252 is a formative case on the right to education under the European Convention of Human Rights, Protocol 1, art 2. It related to \"certain aspects of the laws on the use of languages in education in Belgium\", was decided by the European Court of Human Rights in 1968.\n\nThe applicants submitted six applications (Applications No: 1474/62, 1677/62, 1691/62, 1769/63, 1994/63, 2126/64) between 1962 and 1964 on their own behalf and on the behalf of their children, alleging that Belgian linguistic legislation, relating to education, infringed on their rights under the European Convention, namely Article 8 (family life) in conjunction with Article 14 (non-discrimination), and Article 2 of the Protocol 1 (right to education) of March 1952. \nThe Acts they brought litigation against basically stated the language of education shall be Dutch in the Dutch-speaking region, French in the French-speaking region and German in the German-speaking region.\n\nThe applicants, whose children totalled more than 800, asserted that the law of the Dutch-speaking regions where they lived did not include adequate provisions for French-language education. They also complained that the Belgian state withheld grants from institutions in these regions that did not comply with the linguistic provisions set out in the legislation for schools and refused to homologate certificates issued by these institutions. Further, the state did not allow the applicants’ children to attend French classes in certain places, forcing applicants to enrol their children in local schools, contrary to their aspirations, or send them further afield, which entailed risks and hardships.\n\nThe Government argued that the right to education in one’s own language was not included in the Convention and the Protocol, and that the applicants did not belong to a national minority within the meaning of Article 14.\n\nThe Court found by a majority of 8 to 7 that one of the Acts violated Art 14. But the Court also found unanimously that there had been no breach of Articles 8 and 14 of the Convention, and Article 2 of the protocol, with regard to the other contested legislation and points at issue. In reaching its decision the Court considered that the principle of equality of treatment enshrined in Article 14 was violated if the distinction had no objective and reasonable justification, did not pursue a legitimate aim, and was not proportionate to the aim pursued. Further to this, the Court opined that the right to education implied the right to be educated in the national language, and did not include the provision that the parent’s linguistic preferences be respected.\n\nThe operative part of the Court's judgment read as follows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15191637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15191637", "title": "CUSUM", "text": "CUSUM\n\nIn statistical quality control, the CUSUM (or cumulative sum control chart) is a sequential analysis technique developed by E. S. Page of the University of Cambridge. It is typically used for monitoring change detection.\nCUSUM was announced in Biometrika, in 1954, a few years after the publication of Wald's SPRT algorithm.\n\nPage referred to a \"quality number\" formula_1, by which he meant a parameter of the probability distribution; for example, the mean. He devised CUSUM as a method to determine changes in it, and proposed a criterion for deciding when to take corrective action. When the CUSUM method is applied to changes in mean, it can be used for step detection of a time series.\n\nA few years later, George Alfred Barnard developed a visualization method, the V-mask chart, to detect both increases and decreases in formula_1.\n\nAs its name implies, CUSUM involves the calculation of a cumulative sum (which is what makes it \"sequential\"). Samples from a process formula_3 are assigned weights formula_4, and summed as follows:\n\nWhen the value of \"S\" exceeds a certain threshold value, a change in value has been found. The above formula only detects changes in the positive direction. When negative changes need to be found as well, the min operation should be used instead of the max operation, and this time a change has been found when the value of \"S\" is \"below\" the (negative) value of the threshold value.\n\nPage did not explicitly say that formula_7 represents the likelihood function, but this is common usage.\n\nNote that this differs from SPRT by always using zero function as the lower \"holding barrier\" rather than a lower \"holding barrier\". Also, CUSUM does not require the use of the likelihood function.\n\nAs a means of assessing CUSUM's performance, Page defined the \"average run length\" (A.R.L.) metric; \"the expected number of articles sampled before action is taken.\" He further wrote:\nWhen the quality of the output is satisfactory the A.R.L. is a measure of the expense incurred by the scheme when it gives false alarms, i.e., Type I errors (Neyman & Pearson, 1936). On the other hand, for constant poor quality the A.R.L. measures the delay and thus the amount of scrap produced before the rectifying action is taken, i.e., Type II errors.\nThe following example shows 20 observations of a process with a mean value of X equal to 0 and a standard deviation of 0.5. It can be seen as the value of Z is never greater than 3, so other control charts should not be detected as a failure while using the Cusum 17 that shows the value of SH is greater than 4.\n\nCumulative observed-minus-expected plots are a related method.\n\n"}
{"id": "22772051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22772051", "title": "Cancellative semigroup", "text": "Cancellative semigroup\n\nIn mathematics, a cancellative semigroup (also called a cancellation semigroup) is a semigroup having the cancellation property. In intuitive terms, the cancellation property asserts that from an equality of the form \"a\" · \"b\" = \"a\" · \"c\", where · is a binary operation, one can cancel the element \"a\" and deduce the equality \"b\" = \"c\". In this case the element being canceled out is appearing as the left factors of and and hence it is a case of left cancellation property. The right cancellation property can be defined analogously. Prototypical examples of cancellative semigroups are the groups and the semigroup of positive integers under addition or multiplication. Cancellative semigroups are considered to be very close to being groups because cancellability is one of the necessary conditions for a semigroup to be embeddable in a group. Moreover, every finite cancellative semigroup is a group. One of the main problems associated with the study of cancellative semigroups is to determine the necessary and sufficient conditions for embedding a cancellative semigroup in a group.\n\nThe origins of the study of cancellative semigroups can be traced to the first substantial paper on semigroups, .\n\nLet \"S\" be a semigroup. An element \"a\" in \"S\" is left cancellative (or, is \"left cancellable\", or, has the \"left cancellation property\") if implies for all \"b\" and \"c\" in \"S\". If every element in \"S\" is left cancellative, then \"S\" is called a left cancellative semigroup.\n\nLet \"S\" be a semigroup. An element \"a\" in \"S\" is right cancellative (or, is \"right cancellable\", or, has the \"right cancellation property\") if implies for all \"b\" and \"c\" in \"S\". If every element in \"S\" is right cancellative, then \"S\" is called a right cancellative semigroup.\n\nLet \"S\" be a semigroup. If every element in \"S\" is both left cancellative and right cancellative, then \"S\" is called a cancellative semigroup.\n\nIt is possible to restate the characteristic property of a cancellative element in terms of a property held by the corresponding left multiplication and right multiplication maps defined by , . An element \"a\" in \"S\" is left cancellative if and only if \"L\" is injective. An element \"a\" is right cancellative if and only if \"R\" is injective.\n\n\nIt is an elementary result in group theory that a finite cancellative semigroup is a group. Let \"S\" be a finite cancellative semigroup. Cancellativity and finiteness taken together imply that for all \"a\" in \"S\". So given an element \"a\" in \"S\", there is an element \"e\", depending on \"a\", in \"S\" such that . Cancellativity now further implies that this \"e\" is independent of \"a\" and that for all \"x\" in \"S\". Thus \"e\" is the identity element of \"S\" which may from now on be denoted by \"e\". Using the property one now sees that there is \"b\" in \"S\" such that . Cancellativity can be invoked to show that \"ab\" = \"e\" also, thereby establishing that every element \"a\" in \"S\" has an inverse in \"S\". Thus \"S\" must necessarily be a group.\n\nFurthermore, every cancellative epigroup is also a group.\n\nA commutative semigroup can be embedded in a group (i.e., is isomorphic to a subset of a group) if and only if it is cancellative. The procedure for doing this is similar to that of embedding an integral domain in a field, . See also Grothendieck group, the universal mapping from a commutative semigroup to abelian groups that is an embedding if the semigroup is cancellative.\n\nFor the embeddability of noncommutative semigroups in groups, cancellativity is obviously a necessary condition. However, it is not sufficient: there are (noncommutative and infinite) cancellative semigroups that cannot be embedded in a group.\nTo obtain a sufficient (but not necessary) condition, it may be observed that the proof of the result that a finite cancellative semigroup \"S\" is a group critically depended on the fact that \"Sa\" = \"S\" for all \"a\" in \"S\". The paper generalized this idea and introduced the concept of a \"right reversible\" semigroup. A semigroup \"S\" is said to be \"right reversible\" if any two principal ideals of \"S\" intersect, that is, \"Sa\" ∩ \"Sb\" ≠ Ø for all \"a\" and \"b\" in \"S\". The sufficient condition for the embeddability of semigroups in groups can now be stated as follows: (Ore's Theorem) Any right reversible cancellative semigroup can be embedded in a group, .\n\nThe first set of necessary and sufficient conditions for the embeddability of a semigroup in a group were given in . Though theoretically important, the conditions are countably infinite in number and no finite subset will suffice, as shown in . A different (but also countably infinite) set of necessary and sufficient conditions were given in , where it was shown that a semigroup can be embedded in a group if and only if it is cancellative and satisfies a so-called \"polyhedral condition\". The two embedding theorems by Malcev and Lambek were later compared in .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56709430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56709430", "title": "Christian persecution complex", "text": "Christian persecution complex\n\nChristian persecution complex is a belief, attitude or world view that Christian values and Christians are being oppressed by social groups and governments. This belief is thought to be held by certain American Protestant Churches and Christian- or Bible-based cults. It is has been called the \"Evangelical\", \"American Christian\" or \"\"Christian Right\" \"Persecution Complex.\"\"\n\nAccording to Candida Moss the Christian \"persecution complex\" appeared during the era of early Christianity due to internal Christian identity politics. Moss suggested that the idea of persecution is cardinal to the worldview of Christianity, noting that it creates the impression that Christians are a minority that are facing a war - even though they are numerically superior. This perception is grounded in the manichaeistic belief that the world is divided into two factions, one led by God and the other by Satan. In this view there can be no compromise between the two, and even attempting to dialogue or engage with \"the other\" is seen as a form of collaboration with it. Paul Cavill claims that the New Testament teaches that persecutions are inherent to Christianity.\n\nMany find it difficult to define the origin of the Christian persecution complex. According to Elizabeth Castelli, some set the starting point in the middle of the 20th century, following a series of court rulings that declared public places to be out of bounds for religious activity (e.g. morning prayer in schools). However, it became apparent in the United States in the 1990s with the adoption of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 as the official foreign policy. A few years later, the September 11 attacks boosted its development. This complex \"mobilizes the language of religious persecution to shut down political debate and critique by characterizing any position not in alignment with this politicized version of Christianity as an example of anti-religious bigotry and persecution. Moreover, it routinely deploys the archetypal figure of the martyr as a source of unquestioned religious and political authority\".\n\nAmerican sociologist George Yancey finds that the perception of some Christians that they are persecuted is not unfounded, and that anti-Christian hostility is real. Yancey, in a 2017 publication, suggests that levels of anti-Christian hostility have not significantly risen over the past few decades (in the United States), however those with this hostility have gained economic power and thus \"... Christian activists may be correct in that they now pay a stiffer price for that animosity.” \n\nSome Christian journalists point out that \"American Christians have a persecution complex\" while noting that the persecution of Christians is real in the Middle East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312085", "title": "Common good", "text": "Common good\n\nIn philosophy, economics, and political science, the common good (also commonwealth, common weal or general welfare) refers to either what is shared and beneficial for all or most members of a given community, or alternatively, what is achieved by citizenship, collective action, and active participation in the realm of politics and public service. The concept of the common good differs significantly among philosophical doctrines. Early conceptions of the common good were set out by Ancient Greek philosophers, including Aristotle and Plato. One understanding of the common good rooted in Aristotle's philosophy remains in common usage today, referring to what one contemporary scholar calls the \"good proper to, and attainable only by, the community, yet individually shared by its members.\" The concept of common good developed through the work of political theorists, moral philosophers, and public economists, including Thomas Aquinas, Niccolò Machiavelli, John Locke, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, James Madison, Adam Smith, Karl Marx, John Stuart Mill, John Rawls, and many other thinkers. In contemporary economic theory, \"a\" common good is any good which is rivalrous yet non-excludable, while \"the\" common good, by contrast, arises in the subfield of welfare economics and refers to the outcome of a social welfare function. Such a social welfare function, in turn, would be rooted in a moral theory of the good (such as utilitarianism). Social choice theory aims to understand processes by which the common good may or may not be realized in societies through the study of collective decision rules. And public choice theory applies microeconomic methodology to the study of political science in order to explain how private interests affect political activities and outcomes.\n\nThe term \"common good\" has been used in many disparate ways and escapes a single definition. Most philosophical conceptions of the common good fall into one of two families: substantive and procedural. According to substantive conceptions, the common good is that which is shared by and beneficial to all or most members of a given community: particular substantive conceptions will specify precisely what factors or values are beneficial and shared. According to procedural formulations, by contrast, the common good consists of the outcome that is achieved through collective participation in the formation of a shared will.\n\nUnder one name or another, the common good has been a recurring theme throughout the history of political philosophy. As one contemporary scholar observes, Aristotle used the idea of \"the common interest\" (\"to koinei sympheron,\" in Greek) as the basis for his distinction between \"right\" constitutions, which are in the common interest, and \"wrong\" constitutions, which are in the interest of rulers; Saint Thomas Aquinas held \"the common good\" (\"bonum commune,\" in Latin) to be the end of law and government; John Locke declared that \"the peace, safety, and public good of the people\" are the ends of political society, and further argued that \"the well being of the people shall be the supreme law\"; David Hume contended that \"social conventions\" are adopted and given moral support in virtue of the fact that they serve the \"public\" or \"common\" interest; James Madison wrote of the \"public,\" \"common,\" or \"general\" good as closely tied with justice and declared that justice is the end of government and civil society; and Jean-Jacques Rousseau understood \"the common good\" (\"le bien commun\", in French) to be the object of a society's general will and the highest end pursued by government.\n\nThough these thinkers differed significantly in their views of what the common good consists in, as well as over what the state should do to promote it, they nonetheless agreed that the common good is the end of government, that it is a good of all the citizens, and that no government should become the \"perverted servant of special interests,\" whether these special interests be understood as Aristotle's \"interest of the rulers,\" Locke's \"private good,\" Hume's and Madison's \"interested factions,\" or Rousseau's \"particular wills.\"\n\nThough the phrase \"common good\" does not appear in texts of Plato, the Ancient Greek philosopher indicates repeatedly that a particular common goal exists in politics and society. For Plato, the best political order is the one which best promotes social harmony and an environment of cooperation and friendship among different social groups, each benefiting from and adding to the common good. In \"The Republic\", Plato's character Socrates contends that the greatest social good is the \"cohesion and unity\" that \"result[s] from the common feelings of pleasure and pain which you get when all members of a society are glad or sorry for the same successes and failures.\"\n\nPlato's student Aristotle, considered by many to be the father of the idea of a common good, uses the concept of \"the common interest\" (\"to koinei sympheron,\" in Greek) as the basis for his distinction between \"right\" constitutions, which are in the common interest, and \"wrong\" constitutions, which are in the interest of rulers. For Aristotle, the common good is constituted in the good of individuals. Individual good, in turn, consists in human flourishing—the fulfillment of the human's purpose—which is the right and natural thing for humans to do. On this teleological view, the good stems from objective facts about human life and purpose. Aristotle is clear that there is greater value in the common good than in the individual good, noting in his \"Nicomachean Ethics\" that \"\"even if the end is the same for a single man and for a state, that of the state seems at all events something greater and more complete; … though it is worthwhile to attain the end merely for one man, it is finer and more godlike to attain it for a nation or for city-states\".\" When Aristotle discusses the types of political regime in his \"Politics\", he speaks of monarchy (rule by one man for the common good), aristocracy (rule by a few for the common good), and polity (rule by the many for the common good). Yet by \"common good\" here, Aristotle means specifically the common good of the citizens, and not necessarily the good of non-citizen residents of the city, such as women, slaves, and manual laborers, who reside in the city for the good of the citizens.\n\nAccording to one common contemporary usage, rooted in Aristotle's philosophy, common good refers to \"a good proper to, and attainable only by, the community, yet individually shared by its members.\"\n\nDuring the 15th and 16th centuries, the common good was one of several important themes of political thought in Renaissance Florence. The thought goes back to Thomas Aquinas theory of common good being virulent in whole premodern Europe. In a later work, Niccolo Machiavelli speaks of the \"bene commune\" (common good) or \"comune utilità\" (common utility), which refers to the general well-being of a community as a whole. In key passages of the \"Discourses on Livy\", he indicates that \"the common good (\"comune utilità\") . . . is drawn from a free way of life (\"vivere libero\")\" but is not identical with it. Elsewhere in the \"Discourses,\" freedom, safety and dignity are explicitly stated to be elements of the common good and some form of property and family life are also implied. Furthermore, the common good brought by freedom includes wealth, economic prosperity, security, enjoyment and good life. It is important to note, however, that though Machiavelli speaks of an instrumental relationship between freedom and common good, the general well-being is not precisely identical with political freedom: elsewhere in the \"Discourses,\" Machiavelli argues that an impressive level of common good can be achieved by sufficiently good autocratic rulers. Nevertheless, he insists that bringing common benefit to everyone requires intrepid courage by leaders, and the most unique people in this respect are the founders of ancient republics and kingdoms (such as Moses, Lycurgus, Solon and Romulus) who governed themselves 'according to the laws ordered by them, placing the common utility (\"commune utilità\") before their own advantage'.\n\nIn Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"The Social Contract\", composed in the mid-18th century, Rousseau argues that society can function only to the extent that individuals have interests in common, and that the end goal of any state is the realization of the common good. He further posits that the common good can be identified and implemented only by heeding the general will of a political community, specifically as expressed by that community's sovereign. Rousseau maintains that the general will always tends toward the common good, though he concedes that democratic deliberations of individuals will not always express the general will. Furthermore, Rousseau distinguished between the general will and the will of all, stressing that while the latter is simply the sum total of each individual's desires, the former is the \"one will which is directed towards their common preservation and general well-being.\" Political authority, to Rousseau, should be understood as legitimate only if it exists according to the general will and toward the common good. The pursuit of the common good, then, enables the state to act as a moral community.\n\n\"Individual ambition serves the common good.\"\n—Adam Smith\n\nThe 18th-century Scottish moral philosopher and political economist Adam Smith famously argues in his Wealth of Nations what has become known as the First Fundamental Theorem of Welfare Economics: that the invisible hand of market competition automatically transforms individual self-interest into the common good. Smith's thesis is that in a \"system of natural liberty,\" an economic system that allows individuals to pursue their own self-interest under conditions of free competition and common law, would result in a self-regulating and highly prosperous economy, generating the most welfare for the most number. Thus, he argues, eliminating restrictions on prices, labor, and trade will result in advancing the common good through \"universal opulence which extends itself to the lowest ranks of the people,\" via lower prices, higher wages, better products, and so on.\n\nJohn Rawls defines the common good as \"certain general conditions that are...equally to everyone's advantage\". In his Theory of Justice, Rawls argues for a principled reconciliation of liberty and equality, applied to the basic structure of a well-ordered society, which will specify exactly such general conditions. Starting with an artificial device he calls the original position, Rawls defends two particular principles of justice by arguing that these are the positions reasonable persons would choose were they to choose principles from behind a veil of ignorance. Such a \"veil\" is one that essentially blinds people to all facts about themselves so they cannot tailor principles to their own advantage. According to Rawls, ignorance of these details about oneself will lead to principles that are fair to all. If an individual does not know how he will end up in his own conceived society, he is likely not going to privilege any one class of people, but rather develop a scheme of justice that treats all fairly. In particular, Rawls claims that those in the original position would all adopt a \"maximin\" strategy which would maximize the prospects of the least well-off individual or group. In this sense, Rawls's understanding of the common good is intimately tied with the well-being of the least advantaged. \nRawls claims that the parties in the original position would adopt two governing principles, which would then regulate the assignment of rights and duties and regulate the distribution of social and economic advantages across society. The First Principle of Justice states that \"\"First: each person is to have an equal right to the most extensive basic liberty compatible with a similar liberty for others\". The Second Principle of Justice provides that social and economic inequalities are to be arranged such that \"(a) they are to be of the greatest benefit to the least-advantaged members of society, consistent with the just savings principle\" (\"the difference principle\"); and \"(b) offices and positions must be open to everyone under conditions of 'fair equality of opportunity'\".\n\nThe idea of a common good plays a role in Confucian political philosophy, which on most interpretations stresses the importance of the subordinination of individual interests to group or collective interests, or at the very least, the mutual dependence between the flourishing of the individual and the flourishing of the group. In Islamic political thought, many modern thinkers have identified conceptions of the common good while endeavoring to ascertain the fundamental or universal principles underlying divine shari‘a law. These fundamentals or universal principles have been largely identified with the \"objectives\" of the shari‘a (\"maqāṣid al-sharī‘a\"), including concepts of the common good or public interest (\"maṣlaḥa ‘āmma\", in modern terminology). A notion of the common good arises in contemporary Islamic discussions of the distinction between the fixed and the flexible (\"al-thābit wa-l-mutaghayyir\"), especially as it relates to modern Islamic conceptions of tolerance, equality, and citizenship: according to some, for instance, universal principles carry greater weight than specific injunctions of the Qur’an, and in case of conflict, can even supersede or suspend explicit textual injunctions (\"naṣṣ\") if this serves the common good.\n\nIn economics, the terms “public good” and “common good” have technical definitions. A public good is a good that is non-rivalrous and non-excludable. A common good is simply non-excludable. A simple typology illustrates the differences between various kinds of goods:\n\nThe field of welfare economics studies social well-being. The approach begins with the specification of a social welfare function. The choice of a social welfare function is rooted in an ethical theory. A utilitarian social welfare function weights the well-being of each individual equally, while a Rawlsian social welfare function only considers the welfare of the least well-off individual.\n\nNeoclassical economic theory provides two conflicting lenses for thinking about the genesis of the common good, two distinct sets of microfoundations. On one view, the common good arises due to social gains from cooperation. Such a view might appeal to the Prisoner’s dilemma to illustrate how cooperation can result in superior welfare outcomes. Moreover, a cooperative equilibrium is stable in an iterated Prisoner’s dilemma. Under these conditions, an individual does best by pursuing the course of action that is also optimal for society.\n\nOn the other hand, economic theory typically points to social gains from competition as a rationale for the use of markets. Thus, Smith described the “invisible hand,” whereby the mechanism of the market converts individuals’ self-interested activity into gains for society. This insight is formalized in the First Theorem of Welfare Economics. However, economic theory also points to market failures, including the underprovision of public goods by markets and the failure of self-interested individuals to internalize externalities. Because of these factors, purely self-interested behaviour often detracts from the common good.\n\nSocial choice theory studies collective decision rules. Arrow's Impossibility Theorem, an important result in social choice theory, states that no aggregative mechanism of collective choice (restricted to ordinal inputs) can consistently transform individual preferences into a collective preference-ordering, across the universal domain of possible preference profiles, while also satisfying a set of minimal normative criteria of rationality and fairness. The Gibbard-Satterthwaite theorem further demonstrates that non-dictatorial voting systems are inevitably subject to strategic manipulation of outcomes.\n\nWilliam H. Riker articulates the standard public choice interpretation of social choice theory, arguing that Arrow’s Impossibility Theorem “forces us to doubt that the content of 'social welfare' or the 'public interest' can ever be discovered by amalgamating individual value judgments. It even leads us to suspect that no such thing as the 'public interest' exists, aside from the subjective (and hence dubious) claims of self-proclaimed saviors.” Thus, Riker defends a “liberal” conception of democracy, which centers on the role of constitutional checks on government. Public choice theorists have tended to share this approach. Buchanan and Tullock pursued this program in developing the field of \"constitutional political economy\" in their book \"The Calculus of Consent\".\n\nMore recent work in social choice theory, however, has demonstrated that Arrow's impossibility result can be obviated at little or no normative cost. Amartya Sen, for instance, argues that a range of social choice mechanisms emerge unscathed given certain reasonable restrictions on the domain of admissible preference profiles. In particular, requiring that preferences are single-peaked on a single dimension ensures a Condorcet winner. Moreover, many of Riker's empirical claims have been refuted.\n\nPublic choice theory (sometimes called \"positive political theory\") applies microeconomic methodology to the study of political science in order to explain how private interests inform political activities. Whereas welfare economics, in line with classical political economy, typically assumes a public-interest perspective on policymaking, public choice analysis adopts a private-interest perspective in order to identify how the objectives of policymakers affect policy outcomes. Public choice analysis thus diagnoses deviations from the common good resulting from activities such as rent-seeking. In \"The Logic of Collective Action\", Mancur Olson argues that public goods will tend to be underprovided due to individuals' incentives to free-ride. Anthony Downs provided an application of this logic to the theory of voting, identifying the paradox of voting whereby rational individuals prefer to abstain from voting, because the marginal cost exceeds the private marginal benefit. Downs argues further that voters generally prefer to remain uninformed due to \"rational ignorance.\"\n\nPublic choice scholarship can have more constructive applications. For instance, Elinor Ostrom's study of schemes for the regulation of common property resources resulted in the discovery of mechanisms for overcoming the tragedy of the commons.\n\nIn deliberative democracy, the common good is taken to be a regulative ideal. In other words, participants in democratic deliberation aim at the realization of the common good. This feature distinguishes deliberative democracy from aggregative conceptions of democracy, which focus solely on the aggregation of preferences. In contrast to aggregative conceptions, deliberative democracy emphasizes the processes by which agents justify political claims on the basis of judgments about the common good. Epistemic democracy, a leading contemporary approach to deliberative democracy, advances a cognitivist account of the common good.\n\nOne of the earliest references in Christian literature to the concept of the common good is found in the \"Epistle of Barnabas\": \"Do not live entirely isolated, having retreated into yourselves, as if you were already [fully] justified, but gather instead to seek together the common good.\"\n\nThe concept is strongly present in Augustine of Hippo's \"magnum opus\" \"City of God\". Book XIX of this, the main locus of Augustine's normative political thought, is focused on the question, 'Is the good life social?' In other words, 'Is human wellbeing found in the good of the whole society, the common good?' Chapters 5-17 of Book XIX address this question. Augustine's emphatic answer is yes (see start of chap. 5).\n\nAugustine's understanding was taken up and, under the influence of Aristotle, developed by Thomas Aquinas. Aquinas's conception of the common good became standard in Roman Catholic moral theology.\n\nAgainst that background, the common good became a central concept in the modern tradition of Catholic social teaching, beginning with the foundational document, \"Rerum novarum\", a papal encyclical by Pope Leo XIII, issued in 1891. This addressed the crisis of the conditions of industrial workers in Europe and argued for a position different from both laissez-faire capitalism and socialism. In this letter, Pope Leo guarantees the right to private property while insisting on the role of collective bargaining to establish a living wage.\n\nContemporary Catholic social teaching on the common good is summarised in the 2004 \"Compendium of the Social Doctrine of the Church\", chapter 4, part II. Quoting the Second Vatican Council document, \"Gaudium et spes\" (1965), this says, \"According to its primary and broadly accepted sense, \"the common good\" indicates 'the sum total of social conditions which allow people, either as groups or as individuals, to reach their fulfilment more fully and more easily'\" (#164, quoting \"Gaudium et spes\", #26; italics original).\n\nThe \"Compendium\" later gives statements that communicate what can be seen as a partly different sense of the concept - as not only \"social conditions\" that enable persons to reach fulfilment, but as the \"end\" of \"goal\" of human life. \"\"[T]he common good [is] the good of all people and of the whole person… The human person cannot find fulfilment in himself, that is, apart from the fact that he exists \"with\" others and \"for\" others\"\" (#165; italics original). \"The goal of life in society is in fact the historically attainable common good\" (#168).\n\nThe Roman Catholic International Theological Commission drew attention to these two partly different understandings of the common good in its 2009 publication, \"In Search of a Universal Ethic: A New Look at the Natural Law\". It referred to them as \"two levels\" of the common good.\n\nAnother relevant document is \"Veritatis Splendor\", a papal encyclical by Pope John Paul II, issued in 1993 to combat the relaxation of moral norms and the political corruption (see Paragraph 98) that affects millions of persons. In this letter, Pope John Paul describes the characteristics and virtues that political leadership should require, which are truthfullness, honesty, fairness, temperance and solidarity (as described in paragraph 98 to 100), given that truth extends from honesty, good faith, and sincerity in general, to agreement with fact or reality in particular.\n\nIn contemporary American politics, language of the common good (or public wealth) is sometimes adopted by political actors on the progressive left to describe their values. Jonathan Dolhenty argues that one should distinguish in American politics between the common good, which may \"be shared wholly by each individual in the family without its becoming a private good for any individual family member\", and the collective good, which, \"though possessed by all as a group, is not really participated in by the members of a group. It is actually divided up into several private goods when apportioned to the different individual members.\" First described by Michael Tomasky in \"The American Prospect\" magazine and John Halpin at the Center for American Progress, the American political understanding of the common good has grown in recent times. The liberal magazine \"The Nation\" and the Rockridge Institute, among others, have identified the common good as a salient political message for progressive candidates. In addition, non-partisan advocacy groups like Common Good are championing political reform efforts to support the common good.\n\nGiven the central concern for sustainable development in an increasingly interdependent world, education and knowledge should thus be considered global common goods. This means that the creation of knowledge, its control, acquisition, validation, and use, are common to all people as a collective social endeavour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33132746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33132746", "title": "Confabulation", "text": "Confabulation\n\nIn psychiatry, confabulation (verb: confabulate) is a memory error defined as the production of fabricated, distorted, or misinterpreted memories about oneself or the world, without the conscious intention to deceive. People who confabulate present incorrect memories ranging from \"subtle alterations to bizarre fabrications\", and are generally very confident about their recollections, despite contradictory evidence.\n\nConfabulation is distinguished from lying as there is no intent to deceive and the person is unaware the information is false. Although individuals can present blatantly false information, confabulation can also seem to be coherent, internally consistent, and relatively normal.\n\nMost known cases of confabulation are symptomatic of brain damage or dementias, such as aneurysm, Alzheimer's disease, or Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome (a common manifestation of thiamine deficiency caused by alcoholism). Additionally confabulation often occurs in people who are suffering from anticholinergic toxidrome when interrogated about bizarre or irrational behaviour.\n\nConfabulated memories of all types most often occur in autobiographical memory and are indicative of a complicated and intricate process that can be led astray at any point during encoding, storage, or recall of a memory. This type of confabulation is commonly seen in Korsakoff's syndrome.\n\nTwo types of confabulation are often distinguished:\n\nAnother distinction is that between:\n\nConfabulation is associated with several characteristics:\n\nTheories of confabulation range in emphasis. Some theories propose that confabulations represent a way for memory-disabled people to maintain their self-identity. Other theories use neurocognitive links to explain the process of confabulation. Still other theories frame confabulation around the more familiar concept of delusion. Other researchers frame confabulation within the fuzzy-trace theory. Finally, some researchers call for theories that rely less on neurocognitive explanations and more on epistemic accounts. \n\nThe most popular theories of confabulation come from the field of neuropsychology or cognitive neuroscience. Research suggests that confabulation is associated with dysfunction of cognitive processes that control the retrieval from long-term memory. Frontal lobe damage often disrupts this process, preventing the retrieval of information and the evaluation of its output. Furthermore, researchers argue that confabulation is a disorder resulting from failed \"reality monitoring/source monitoring\" (i.e. deciding whether a memory is based on an actual event or whether it is imagined). Some neuropsychologists suggest that errors in retrieval of information from long-term memory that are made by normal subjects involve different components of control processes than errors made by confabulators. Kraepelin distinguished two subtypes of confabulation, one of which he called simple confabulation, caused partly by errors in the temporal ordering of real events. The other variety he called fantastic confabulation, which was bizarre and patently impossible statements not rooted in true memory. Simple confabulation may result from damage to memory systems in the medial temporal lobe. Fantastic confabulations reveal a dysfunction of the Supervisory System, which is believed to be a function of the frontal cortex.\n\nSome argue confabulations have a self-serving, emotional component in those with memory deficits that aids to maintain a coherent self-concept. In other words, people who confabulate are motivated to do so, because they have gaps in their memory that they want to fill in and cover up.\n\nSupport for the temporality account suggests that confabulations occur when an individual is unable to place events properly in time. Thus, an individual might correctly state an action he/she performed, but say he/she did it yesterday, when he/she did it weeks ago. In the Memory, Consciousness, and Temporality Theory, confabulation occurs because of a deficit in temporal consciousness or awareness.\n\nAlong a similar notion are the theories of reality and source monitoring theories. In these theories, confabulation occurs when individuals incorrectly attribute memories as reality, or incorrectly attribute memories to a certain source. Thus, an individual might claim an imagined event happened in reality, or that a friend told him/her about an event he/she actually heard about on television.\n\nSupporters of the strategic retrieval account suggest that confabulations occur when an individual cannot actively monitor a memory for truthfulness after its retrieval. An individual recalls a memory, but there is some deficit after recall that interferes with the person establishing its falseness.\n\nStill others propose that all types of false memories, including confabulation, fit into a general memory and executive function model. In 2007, a framework for confabulation was proposed that stated confabulation is the result of two things: Problems with executive control and problems with evaluation. In the executive control deficit, the incorrect memory is retrieved from the brain. In the evaluative deficit, the memory will be accepted as a truth due to an inability to distinguish a belief from an actual memory.\n\nRecent models of confabulation have attempted to build upon the link between delusion and confabulation. More recently, a monitoring account for delusion, applied to confabulation, proposed both the inclusion of conscious and unconscious processing. The claim was that by encompassing the notion of both processes, spontaneous versus provoked confabulations could be better explained. In other words, there are two ways to confabulate. One is the unconscious, spontaneous way in which a memory goes through no logical, explanatory processing. The other is the conscious, provoked way in which a memory is recalled intentionally by the individual to explain something confusing or unusual.\n\nFuzzy-trace theory, or FTT, is a concept more commonly applied to the explanation of judgement decisions. According to this theory, memories are encoded generally (gist), as well as specifically (verbatim). Thus, a confabulation could result from recalling the incorrect verbatim memory or from being able to recall the gist portion, but not the verbatim portion, of a memory.\n\nFTT uses a set of five principles to explain false-memory phenomena. Principle 1 suggests that subjects store verbatim information and gist information parallel to one another. Both forms of storage involve the surface content of an experience. Principle 2 shares factors of retrieval of gist and verbatim traces. Principle 3 is based on dual-opponent processes in false memory. Generally, gist retrieval supports false memory, while verbatim retrieval suppresses it. Developmental variability is the topic of Principle 4. As a child develops into an adult, there is obvious improvement in the acquisition, retention, and retrieval of both verbatim and gist memory. However, during late adulthood, there will be a decline in these abilities. Finally, Principle 5 explains that verbatim and gist processing cause vivid remembering. Fuzzy-trace Theory, governed by these 5 principles, has proved useful in explaining false memory and generating new predictions about it.\n\nHowever, not all accounts are so embedded in the neurocognitive aspects of confabulation. Some attribute confabulation to epistemic accounts. In 2009, theories underlying the causation and mechanisms for confabulation were criticized for their focus on neural processes, which are somewhat unclear, as well as their emphasis on the negativity of false remembering. Researchers proposed that an epistemic account of confabulation would be more encompassing of both the advantages and disadvantages of the process.\n\nConfabulations are often symptoms of various syndromes and psychopathologies in the adult population including: Korsakoff's syndrome, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, and traumatic brain injury.\n\nWernicke–Korsakoff syndrome is a neurological disorder typically characterized by years of chronic alcohol abuse and a nutritional thiamine deficiency. Confabulation is one salient symptom of this syndrome. A study on confabulation in Korsakoff’s patients found that they are subject to provoked confabulation when prompted with questions pertaining to episodic memory, not semantic memory, and when prompted with questions where the appropriate response would be \"I don’t know.\" This suggests that confabulation in these patients is \"domain-specific.\" Korsakoff’s patients who confabulate are more likely than healthy adults to falsely recognize distractor words, suggesting that false recognition is a \"confabulatory behavior.\"\n\nAlzheimer's disease is a condition with both neurological and psychological components. It is a form of dementia associated with severe frontal lobe dysfunction. Confabulation in individuals with Alzheimer's is often more spontaneous than it is in other conditions, especially in the advanced stages of the disease. Alzheimer's patients demonstrate comparable abilities to encode information as healthy elderly adults, suggesting that impairments in encoding are not associated with confabulation. However, as seen in Korsakoff's patients, confabulation in Alzheimer's patients is higher when prompted with questions investigating episodic memory. Researchers suggest this is due to damage in the posterior cortical regions of the brain, which is a symptom characteristic of Alzheimer's Disease.\n\nSchizophrenia is a psychological disorder in which confabulation is sometimes observed. Although confabulation is usually coherent in its presentation, confabulations of schizophrenic patients are often delusional Researchers have noted that these patients tend to make up delusions on the spot which are often fantastic and become increasingly elaborate with questioning. Unlike patients with Korsakoff's and Alzheimer's, patients with schizophrenia are more likely to confabulate when prompted with questions regarding their semantic memories, as opposed to episodic memory prompting. In addition, confabulation does not appear to be related to any memory deficit in schizophrenic patients. This is contrary to most forms of confabulation. Also, confabulations made by schizophrenic patients often do not involve the creation of new information, but instead involve an attempt by the patient to reconstruct actual details of a past event.\n\nTraumatic brain injury (TBI) can also result in confabulation. Research has shown that patients with damage to the inferior medial frontal lobe confabulate significantly more than patients with damage to the posterior area and healthy controls. This suggests that this region is key in producing confabulatory responses, and that memory deficit is important but not necessary in confabulation. Additionally, research suggests that confabulation can be seen in patients with frontal lobe syndrome, which involves an insult to the frontal lobe as a result of disease or traumatic brain injury (TBI). Finally, rupture of the anterior or posterior communicating artery, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and encephalitis are also possible causes of confabulation.\n\nConfabulation is believed to be a result of damage to the right frontal lobe of the brain. In particular, damage can be localized to the ventromedial frontal lobes and other structures fed by the anterior communicating artery (ACoA), including the basal forebrain, septum, fornix, cingulate gyrus, cingulum, anterior hypothalamus, and head of the caudate nucleus.\n\nWhile some recent literature has suggested that older adults may be more susceptible than their younger counterparts to have false memories, the majority of research on forced confabulation centers around children. Children are particularly susceptible to forced confabulations based on their high suggestibility. When forced to recall confabulated events, children are less likely to remember that they had previously confabulated these situations, and they are more likely than their adult counterparts to come to remember these confabulations as real events that transpired. Research suggests that this inability to distinguish between past confabulatory and real events is centered on developmental differences in source monitoring. Due to underdeveloped encoding and critical reasoning skills, children's ability to distinguish real memories from false memories may be impaired. It may also be that younger children lack the meta-memory processes required to remember confabulated versus non-confabulated events. Children's meta-memory processes may also be influenced by expectancies or biases, in that they believe that highly plausible false scenarios are not confabulated. However, when knowingly being tested for accuracy, children are more likely to respond, \"I don’t know\" at a rate comparable to adults for unanswerable questions than they are to confabulate. Ultimately, misinformation effects can be minimized by tailoring individual interviews to the specific developmental stage, often based on age, of the participant.\n\nThere is evidence to support different cognitive mechanisms for provoked and spontaneous confabulation. One study suggested that spontaneous confabulation may be a result of an amnesic patient’s inability to distinguish the chronological order of events in their memory. In contrast, provoked confabulation may be a compensatory mechanism, in which the patient tries to make up for their memory deficiency by attempting to demonstrate competency in recollection.\n\nConfabulation of events or situations may lead to an eventual acceptance of the confabulated information as true. For instance, people who knowingly lie about a situation may eventually come to believe that their lies are truthful with time. In an interview setting, people are more likely to confabulate in situations in which they are presented false information by another person, as opposed to when they self-generate these falsehoods. Further, people are more likely to accept false information as true when they are interviewed at a later time (after the event in question) than those who are interviewed immediately or soon after the event. Affirmative feedback for confabulated responses is also shown to increase the confabulator’s confidence in their response. For instance, in culprit identification, if a witness falsely identifies a member of a line-up, he will be more confident in his identification if the interviewer provides affirmative feedback. This effect of confirmatory feedback appears to last over time, as witnesses will even remember the confabulated information months later.\n\nOn rare occasions, confabulation can also be seen in normal subjects. It is currently unclear how completely healthy individuals produce confabulations. It is possible that these individuals are in the process of developing some type of organic condition that is causing their confabulation symptoms. It is not uncommon, however, for the general population to display some very mild symptoms of provoked confabulations. Subtle distortions and intrusions in memory are commonly produced by normal subjects when they remember something poorly.\n\nSpontaneous confabulations, due to their involuntary nature, cannot be manipulated in a laboratory setting. However, provoked confabulations can be researched in various theoretical contexts. The mechanisms found to underlie provoked confabulations can be applied to spontaneous confabulation mechanisms. The basic premise of researching confabulation comprises finding errors and distortions in memory tests of an individual.\n\nConfabulations can be detected in the context of the Deese–Roediger–McDermott paradigm by using the Deese–Roediger–McDermott lists. Participants listen to audio recordings of several lists of words centered around a theme, known as the critical word. The participants are later asked to recall the words on their list. If the participant recalls the critical word, which was never explicitly stated in the list, it is considered a confabulation. Participants often have a false memory for the critical word.\n\nConfabulations can also be researched by using continuous recognition tasks. These tasks are often used in conjunction with confidence ratings. Generally, in a recognition task, participants are rapidly presented with pictures. Some of these pictures are shown once; others are shown multiple times. Participants press a key if they have seen the picture previously. Following a period of time, participants repeat the task. More errors on the second task, versus the first, are indicative of confusion, representing false memories.\n\nConfabulations can also be detected using a free recall task, such as a self-narrative task. Participants are asked to recall stories (semantic or autobiographical) that are highly familiar to them. The stories recalled are encoded for errors that could be classified as distortions in memory. Distortions could include falsifying true story elements or including details from a completely different story. Errors such as these would be indicative of confabulations.\n\nTreatment for confabulation is somewhat dependent on the cause or source, if identifiable. For example, treatment of Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome involves large doses of vitamin B in order to reverse the thiamine deficiency. If there is no known physiological cause, more general cognitive techniques may be used to treat confabulation. A case study published in 2000 showed that Self-Monitoring Training (SMT) reduced delusional confabulations. Furthermore, improvements were maintained at a three-month follow-up and were found to generalize to everyday settings. Although this treatment seems promising, more rigorous research is necessary to determine the efficacy of SMT in the general confabulation population.\n\nAlthough significant gains have been made in the understanding of confabulation in recent years, there is still much to be learned. One group of researchers in particular has laid-out several important questions for future-study. They suggest more information is needed regarding the neural-systems that support the different cognitive processes necessary for normal source-monitoring. They also proposed the idea of developing a standard neuro-psychological test battery able to discriminate between the different types of confabulations. And there is a considerable amount of debate regarding the best approach to organizing and combining neuro-imaging, pharmacological, and cognitive/behavioral approaches to understand confabulation.\n\nIn a recent review article, another group of researchers contemplate issues concerning the distinctions between delusions and confabulation. They question whether delusions and confabulation should be considered distinct or overlapping disorders and, if overlapping, to what degree? They also discuss the role of unconscious processes in confabulation. Some researchers suggest that unconscious emotional and motivational processes are potentially just as important as cognitive and memory problems. Finally, they raise the question of where to draw the line between the pathological and the nonpathological. Delusion-like beliefs and confabulation-like fabrications are commonly seen in healthy individuals. What are the important differences between patients with similar etiology who do and do not confabulate? Since the line between pathological and nonpathological is likely blurry, should we take a more dimensional approach to confabulation? Research suggests that confabulation occurs along a continuum of implausibility, bizarreness, content, conviction, preoccupation, and distress, and impact on daily life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10518721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10518721", "title": "Direct instruction", "text": "Direct instruction\n\nDirect instruction (DI) is a general term for the explicit teaching of a skill-set using lectures or demonstrations of the material to students. A particular subset of direct instruction, denoted by capitalization as Direct Instruction, refers to a specific example of the approach developed by Siegfried Engelmann and Wesley C. Becker. DI teaches by explicit instruction, in contrast to exploratory models such as inquiry-based learning. DI includes tutorials, participatory laboratory classes, discussion, recitation, seminars, workshops, observation, active learning, practica, or internships.\n\nDI relies on a systematic curriculum design, delivered by implementation of a prescribed behavioral script. On the premise that all students can learn and all teachers successfully teach if given effective training in specific techniques, teachers may be evaluated based on measurable student learning.\n\nIn some special education programs, direct instruction is used in resource rooms, when teachers assist with homework completion and academic remediation.\n\nThe term \"Direct Instruction\" applies specifically to a pedagogical model developed by Siegfried Engelmann in 1964 at the University of Illinois Institute for Research on Exceptional Children.\n\nDISTAR was a specific direct instruction model developed by Siegfried Engelmann and Wesley C. Becker. Engelmann and Becker sought to identify teaching methods that would accelerate the progress of historically disadvantaged elementary school students.\n\nDISTAR, an acronym for Direct Instruction System for Teaching Arithmetic and Reading, gained prominence during Project Follow Through, the largest educational study ever conducted in America.\n\nFeatures of DI include:\n\nDirect Instruction has been effectively delivered through peers to students with learning disabilities.\nPeer delivery offers teachers new ways to use the curriculum. The approach has also been examined as a model to assist students in a resource room with homework completion, bolster executive functioning skills and improve teacher efficiency.\n\nAnother popular direct instruction approach is the Success for All program, which uses scripted teaching to instruct elementary children in phonics intensive reading instruction program. What the teacher says is carefully scripted in the program. The program was designed by Johns Hopkins University professor Robert Slavin in the mid 1980s for failing schools in Baltimore. The program requires a dedicated 90 minutes of reading instruction each day in which the teacher must follow a pre-ordained lesson plan that has every minute filled with scripted instruction and specific activities designed to teach reading. Kozol criticized the program in his book, \"The Shame of the Nation\", for being excessively dogmatic, utilitarian, and authoritarian.\n\nDebates about the efficacy of DI have raged since before the final results of Project Follow Through were published; however, there is substantial empirical research supporting its effectiveness. A meta-analysis published by Adams & Engelmann (1996), a chief architect of the DI program, finds a \"mean effect size average per study...(as) more than .75, which confirms that the overall effect is substantial.\"\n\nIn some special education programs, it is used in a resource room with small groups of students. Some research has shown benefit with this model.\n\nDirect Instruction is used with students from every population segment (with regard to poverty, culture, and race). In Project Follow Through, the DI model was ranked first in achievement for poor students, students who were not poor, urban students, rural students, African American students, Hispanic students, and Native American students. Today, many of the Bureau of Indian Affair's highest-performing schools use Direct Instruction materials. The Baltimore Curriculum Project has many schools with Free and Reduced Lunch Rates above 75% serving student populations that are more than 90% African American. These schools have shown strong achievement gains using Direct Instruction.\n\nMeta-analysis of 85 single-subject design studies comparing direct instruction to other teaching strategies found the effects to be substantial for students with learning disabilities; however, when qualified by IQ and reading levels strategy instruction (SI) had better effects for the high IQ group. For the low-IQ discrepancy groups, higher effect sizes were yielded for a Combined DI and SI Model when compared to all competing models. With the exception of handwriting, DI's effects were all above .8 (i.e., reading and mathematics).\n\nJohn Hattie's Visible Learning: A Synthesis of Over 800 Meta-Analyses Relating to Achievement (2009) summarizes the results of four meta-analyses that examined Direct Instruction. These analyses incorporated 304 studies of over 42,000 students. Across all of these students, the average effect size was .59 and was significantly larger than those of any other curriculum Hattie studied.\n\nDirect Instruction is recognized as one of two effective models of comprehensive school reform and, in many cases, can be integrated into a tiered model system to address students with developing problems. The findings from Project Follow Through, conducted in a variety of selected communities throughout the United States, suggested that Direct Instruction is the most effective model for teaching academic skills and for affective outcomes (e.g., self-esteem) of children. Recent large-scale studies (1997–2003), such as the Baltimore Curriculum Project, show that it is possible to help schools that are in the lowest twenty percent with respect to academic achievement steadily improve until they are performing well above average. In some cases, school achievement improved from the 16th percentile to above the 90th percentile.\n\nOne three-year study of methods of teaching reading showed that highly scripted, teacher-directed methods of teaching reading were not as effective as traditional methods that allowed a more flexible approach. Urban teachers in particular expressed great concern over the DI's lack of sensitivity to issues of poverty, culture, and race.\n\nThe former president of the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA), Anne Tweed, questioned whether direct instruction was the most effective science teaching strategy. In the December 15, 2004 NSTA Reports she concluded that \"direct instruction alone cannot replace the in-depth experience with science concepts that inquiry-based strategies provide.\"\n\nSome critics also see DI as a betrayal of the humanistic, egalitarian foundations of public education, or as a \"canned\" or \"teacher proof\" curriculum deliverable via unskilled teachers.\n\nIn Australia, where DI has been used in schools among several remote Indigenous Australians communities in Queensland, DI has been criticised for its high cost in return for at best modest improvements in literacy and numeracy levels, as well as its US-centric theme which is alien to indigenous Australian cultures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2781184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2781184", "title": "Dotfuscator", "text": "Dotfuscator\n\nDotfuscator is a tool that hinders reverse engineering and tampering for .NET, Xamarin and Universal Windows Platform applications. It implements a combination of code obfuscation, optimization, shrinking, and hardening technologies.\n\nA free version of the .NET Obfuscator, called the Dotfuscator Community Edition, is distributed as part of Microsoft's Visual Studio.\n\n.NET executables can easily be reverse engineered by free tools (such as dotPeek and JustDecompile), potentially exposing algorithms and intellectual property (trade secrets), licensing and security mechanisms. Also, code can be run through a debugger and its data inspected. Using a .NET obfuscator can make all of these things more difficult.\n\nDotfuscator was developed by PreEmptive Solutions and a version has been free inside Microsoft's Visual Studio since 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9566", "title": "Empty set", "text": "Empty set\n\nIn mathematics, and more specifically set theory, the empty set or null set is the unique set having no elements; its size or cardinality (count of elements in a set) is zero. Some axiomatic set theories ensure that the empty set exists by including an axiom of empty set; in other theories, its existence can be deduced. Many possible properties of sets are vacuously true for the empty set.\n\n\"Null set\" is a distinct notion within the context of measure theory. In that setting, it describes a set of measure zero; such a set is not necessarily empty. The empty set may also be called the \"void set\".\n\nCommon notations for the empty set include \"{}\", \"formula_1\", and \"∅\". The latter two symbols were introduced by the Bourbaki group (specifically André Weil) in 1939, inspired by the letter Ø in the Norwegian and Danish alphabets (and not related in any way to the Greek letter Φ). In the past, \"0\" was occasionally used as a symbol for the empty set, but this is now considered to be an improper use of notation.\n\nThe symbol ∅ is available at Unicode point U+2205. It can be coded in HTML as &emptyset; and as &#8709;. It can be coded in LaTeX as \\varnothing. The symbol formula_1 is coded in LaTeX as \\emptyset.\n\nIn standard axiomatic set theory, by the principle of extensionality, two sets are equal if they have the same elements; therefore there can be only one set with no elements. Hence there is but one empty set, and we speak of \"the empty set\" rather than \"an empty set\".\n\nThe mathematical symbols employed below are explained here.\n\nFor any set \"A\":\n\nThe empty set has the following properties:\n\nThe connection between the empty set and zero goes further, however: in the standard set-theoretic definition of natural numbers, sets are used to model the natural numbers. In this context, zero is modelled by the empty set.\n\nFor any property:\n\nConversely, if for some property and some set \"V\", the following two statements hold:\n\nBy the definition of subset, the empty set is a subset of any set \"A\". That is, \"every\" element \"x\" of formula_10 belongs to \"A\". Indeed, if it were not true that every element of formula_10 is in \"A\" then there would be at least one element of formula_10 that is not present in \"A\". Since there are \"no\" elements of formula_10 at all, there is no element of formula_10 that is not in \"A\". Any statement that begins \"for every element of formula_10\" is not making any substantive claim; it is a vacuous truth. This is often paraphrased as \"everything is true of the elements of the empty set.\"\n\nWhen speaking of the sum of the elements of a finite set, one is inevitably led to the convention that the sum of the elements of the empty set is zero. The reason for this is that zero is the identity element for addition. Similarly, the product of the elements of the empty set should be considered to be one (see empty product), since one is the identity element for multiplication.\n\nA derangement is a permutation of a set without fixed points. The empty set can be considered a derangement of itself, because it has only one permutation (formula_19), and it is vacuously true that no element (of the empty set) can be found that retains its original position.\n\nSince the empty set has no members, when it is considered as a subset of any ordered set, then every member of that set will be an upper bound and lower bound for the empty set. For example, when considered as a subset of the real numbers, with its usual ordering, represented by the real number line, every real number is both an upper and lower bound for the empty set. When considered as a subset of the extended reals formed by adding two \"numbers\" or \"points\" to the real numbers, namely negative infinity, denoted formula_20 which is defined to be less than every other extended real number, and positive infinity, denoted formula_21 which is defined to be greater than every other extended real number, then: \n\nand\n\nThat is, the least upper bound (sup or supremum) of the empty set is negative infinity, while the greatest lower bound (inf or infimum) is positive infinity. By analogy with the above, in the domain of the extended reals, negative infinity is the identity element for the maximum and supremum operators, while positive infinity is the identity element for minimum and infimum.\n\nIn any topological space \"X\", the empty set is open by definition, as is \"X\". Since the complement of an open set is closed and the empty set and \"X\" are complements of each other, the empty set is also closed, making it a clopen set. Moreover, the empty set is compact by the fact that every finite set is compact.\n\nThe closure of the empty set is empty. This is known as \"preservation of nullary unions.\"\n\nIf \"A\" is a set, then there exists precisely one function \"f\" from {} to \"A\", the empty function. As a result, the empty set is the unique initial object of the category of sets and functions.\n\nThe empty set can be turned into a topological space, called the empty space, in just one way: by defining the empty set to be open. This empty topological space is the unique initial object in the category of topological spaces with continuous maps. In fact, it is a strict initial object: only the empty set has a function to the empty set.\n\nIn the von Neumann construction of the ordinals, 0 is defined as the empty set, and the successor of an ordinal is defined as formula_24. Thus, we have formula_25, formula_26, formula_27, and so on. The von Neumann construction, along with the axiom of infinity, which guarantees the existence of at least one infinite set, can be used to construct the set of natural numbers, formula_28, such that the Peano axioms of arithmetic are satisfied.\n\nIn Zermelo set theory, the existence of the empty set is assured by the axiom of empty set, and its uniqueness follows from the axiom of extensionality. However, the axiom of empty set can be shown redundant in either of two ways:\n\nWhile the empty set is a standard and widely accepted mathematical concept, it remains an ontological curiosity, whose meaning and usefulness are debated by philosophers and logicians.\n\nThe empty set is not the same thing as \"nothing\"; rather, it is a set with nothing \"inside\" it and a set is always \"something\". This issue can be overcome by viewing a set as a bag—an empty bag undoubtedly still exists. Darling (2004) explains that the empty set is not nothing, but rather \"the set of all triangles with four sides, the set of all numbers that are bigger than nine but smaller than eight, and the set of all opening moves in chess that involve a king.\"\n\nThe popular syllogism\nis often used to demonstrate the philosophical relation between the concept of nothing and the empty set. Darling writes that the contrast can be seen by rewriting the statements \"Nothing is better than eternal happiness\" and \"[A] ham sandwich is better than nothing\" in a mathematical tone. According to Darling, the former is equivalent to \"The set of all things that are better than eternal happiness is formula_10\" and the latter to \"The set {ham sandwich} is better than the set formula_10\". It is noted that the first compares elements of sets, while the second compares the sets themselves.\n\nJonathan Lowe argues that while the empty set:\n\nit is also the case that:\n\nGeorge Boolos argued that much of what has been heretofore obtained by set theory can just as easily be obtained by plural quantification over individuals, without reifying sets as singular entities having other entities as members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45099781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45099781", "title": "Exodus of Kashmiri Hindus", "text": "Exodus of Kashmiri Hindus\n\nThe Hindus of the Kashmir Valley, a large majority of whom were Kashmiri Pandits, were forced to flee the Kashmir valley as a result of being targeted by JKLF and Islamic insurgents during late 1989 and early 1990. Of the approximately 300,000 to 600,000 Hindus living in the Kashmir Valley in 1990 only 2,000–3,000 remain there in 2016.\n\nAccording to the Indian government, more than 62,000 families are registered as Kashmiri refugees including some Sikh families. Most families were resettled in Jammu, National Capital Region surrounding Delhi and other neighbouring states.\n\nUnder the 1975 accord, Sheikh Abdullah agreed to measures previously undertaken by the central government in Jammu and Kashmir to integrate the state into India. Sociologist Farrukh Faheem states that it was met with of hostility among people of Kashmir and laid the groundwork for the future insurgency. Those opposed to it included Jamaat-e-Islami Kashmir and People's League in Indian Jammu and Kashmir, and Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) based in Azad Kashmir. Since the mid-1970s, communalist rhetoric was being exploited in the state for votebank politics. This fit together with the plan of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) which was trying to Islamise Kashmir and replace its prevalent Sufi culture with Wahhabism in order to create an atmosphere of religious unity with Pakistan.\n\nISI's initial attempts to create unrest in Kashmir against the Indian government were unsuccessful until it started growing in late-1980s. The Afghan jihad against the Soviets, the Islamic Revolution in Iran and the armed struggle of the Sikhs in Punjab against the Indian state became sources of inspiration for large numbers of Kashmiri Muslim youth. Both the pro-Independence JKLF and the pro-Pakistan Islamist groups including Jamaat-e-Islami Kashmir mobilised the fast growing anti-Indian sentiments among the Kashmiri population. The year of 1984 saw a pronounced rise in terrorist violence in Kashmir. When the JKLF militant Maqbool Bhat was executed in February 1984, strikes and protests by Kashmiri nationalists broke out in the region, where large number of Kashmiri youth participated in widespread anti-India demonstrations, which faced heavy handed reprisals by the state forces.\n\nCritics of the then Chief Minister, Farooq Abdullah, charged that Abdullah was losing control. His visit to Pakistan administered Kashmir during then became an embarrassment, where according to Hashim Qureshi, he shared a platform with JKLF . Though Abdullah asserted that he went on behalf of Indira Gandhi and his father, so that sentiments there could \"be known first hand\", few people believed him. There were also allegations that he had allowed Khalistan terrorist groups to train in Jammu province, although those allegations were never proved. On July 2, 1984, G. M. Shah, who had support from Indira Gandhi, replaced his brother-in-law Farooq Abdullah and became the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, after Abdullah was dismissed, in what was termed as a political \"coup\". \n\nG. M. Shah's administration, which did not have people's mandate, turned to Islamists and opponents of India, notably the Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari, Mohammad Shafi Qureshi and Mohinuddin Salati, to gain some legitimacy through religious sentiments. This gave political space to Islamists who previously lost overwhelmingly in the 1983 state elections. In 1986, Shah decided to construct a mosque within the premises of an ancient Hindu temple inside the New Civil Secretariat area in Jammu to be made available to the Muslim employees for 'Namaz'. People of Jammu took to streets to protest against this decision, which led to a Hindu-Muslim clash. In February 1986, Gul Shah on his return to Kashmir valley retaliated and incited the Kashmiri Muslims by saying \"Islam khatrey mein hey\" (trans. Islam is in danger). As a result, Kashmiri Pandits were targeted by the Kashmiri Muslims. Many incidents were reported in various areas where Kashmiri Hindus were killed and their properties and temples damaged or destroyed. The worst hit areas were mainly in South Kashmir and Sopore. In Vanpoh, Lukbhavan, Anantnag, Salar and Fatehpur, Muslim mobs plundered or destroyed the properties and temples of Hindus. During the Anantnag riot in February 1986, although no Hindu was killed, many houses and other properties belonging to Hindus were looted, burnt or damaged. An investigation of Anantnag riots revealed that members of the 'secular parties' in the state, rather than the Islamists, had played a key role in organising the violence to gain political mileage through religious sentiments. Shah called in the army to curb the violence, but it had little effect. His government was dismissed on March 12, 1986, by the then Governor Jagmohan following communal riots in south Kashmir. This led Jagmohan to rule the state directly. The political fight was hence being portrayed as a conflict between \"Hindu\" New Delhi (Central Government), and its efforts to impose its will in the state, and \"Muslim\" Kashmir, represented by political Islamists and clerics.\n\nThe Islamists had organised under a banner named Muslim United Front, with manifesto to work for Islamic unity and against political interference from the centre, and contested the 1987 state elections, in which they lost again. However, the 1987 elections were widely believed to be rigged so as to bring the secular parties (NC and INC) in Kashmir at the forefront, and this caused the insurgency in Kashmir. The Kashmiri militants killed anyone who openly expressed pro-India policies. Kashmiri Pandits were targeted specifically because they were seen as presenting Indian presence in Kashmir because of their faith. Though the insurgency had been launched by JKLF, groups rose over the next few months advocating for establishment of \"Nizam-e-Mustafa\" (Rule of Allah). The Islamist groups proclaimed the Islamicisation of socio-political and economic set-up, merger with Pakistan, unification of \"ummah\" and establishment of an \"Islamic Caliphate\". Liquidation of central government officials, Pandits, liberal and nationalist intellectuals, social and cultural activists was described as necessary to rid the valley of un-Islamic elements. The relations among the semi-secular and Islamists groups were generally poor and often hostile. The JKLF had also utilized Islamic formulations in its mobilization strategies and public discourse, using Islam and independence interchangeably. It demanded equal rights for everyone however this had a distinct Islamic flavor as it sought to establish an Islamic democracy, protection of minority rights per Quran and Sunnah and an economy of Islamic socialism. The pro-separatist political practices at times deviated from their stated secular position.\n\nIn July 1988, the Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) began a separatist insurgency for independence of Kashmir from India. The group targeted a Kashmiri Hindu for the first time on September 14, 1989, when they killed Pandit Tika Lal Taploo, an advocate and a prominent leader of Bharatiya Janata Party in Jammu & Kashmir in front of several eyewitnesses. This instilled fear in the Kashmiri Pandit community especially as Taploo's killers were never caught which also emboldened the terrorists. The Pandits felt that they weren't safe in the valley and could be targeted any time. The killings of Kashmiri Hindus continued that included many of the prominent ones. On January 4, 1990, a local Urdu newspaper, \"Aftab\", published a press release issued by Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, asking all Pandits to leave the Valley immediately. Another local paper, \"Al Safa\", repeated this expulsion order. Explosive and inflammatory speeches were broadcast from the public address systems of the mosques frequently. The sense of vulnerabity and insecurity was exacerbated by attacks on prominent Hindu politicians, postings of hit lists with names of specific Hindu individuals and various violent episodes in Srinagar and other places.\n\nIn order to undermine his political rival Farooq Abdullah who at that time was the Chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, the Minister of Home Affairs Mufti Mohammad Sayeed convinced Prime Minister V.P. Singh to appoint Jagmohan as the governor of the state. Abdullah resented Jagmohan who had been appointed as the governor earlier in April 1984 as well and had recommended Abdullah's dismissal to Rajiv Gandhi in July 1984. Mufti was convinced that such a move will irritate Abdullah and make him quit. Abdullah had earlier declared that he would resign if Jagmohan was made the Governor. However, the Central government went ahead and appointed him as Governor on 19 January 1990. In response, Abdullah resigned on the same day and Jagmohan suggested the dissolution of the State Assembly. On 21 January 1990, two days after Jagmohan took over as governor, the Gawkadal massacre took place in Srinagar, in which the Indian security forces had opened fire on protesters, leading to the death of at least 50 people, and likely over 100. These events led to chaos. Lawlessness took over the valley and the crowd with slogans and guns started roaming around the streets. News kept coming of violent incidents and those Hindus who survived the night saved their lives by traveling out of the valley.\n\nMost of the Kashmiri Hindus left Kashmir valley and moved to other parts of the country, majorly to the refugee camps in Jammu region of the state.\n\nOn September 14, 1989, Pandit Tika Lal Taploo, who was a lawyer and a BJP member, was murdered by the JKLF in his home in Srinagar. Soon after Taploo's death, Nilkanth Ganjoo, a judge of Srinagar High court who had sentenced Maqbul Bhat to death, was shot dead. In December 1989, members of JKLF kidnapped Dr. Rubaiya Sayeed, daughter of the-then Union Minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed demanding release of five militants, which was subsequently fulfilled.\n\nOn January 04, 1990, Srinagar based newspaper \"Aftab\" released a message, threatening all Hindus to leave Kashmir immediately, sourcing it to the militant organization Hizbul Mujahideen. On 14th April 1990, another Srinagar based newspaper named \"Al-safa\" republished the same warning. The outfit though did not own the statement and subsequently issued a clarification. Walls were pasted with posters with threatening messages to all Kashmiris to harshly follow the Islamic rules which included abidance by the Islamic dress code, a prohibition on alcohol, cinemas, and video parlors and strict restrictions on Kashmiri women. Unknown masked men with Kalashnikovs used to force people to reset their time to Pakistan Standard Time. All offices buildings, shops, and establishments were colored green as a sign of Islamic rule. Shops, factories, temples and homes of Kashmiri Hindus were burned or destroyed. Threatening posters were posted on doors of Hindus asking them to leave Kashmir immediately. During the middle of the night of 18th and 19th January, a blackout took place in the Kashmir Valley where electricity was cut except in mosques which broadcast divisive and inflammatory messages, asking for a purge of Kashmiri pundits.\n\nOn 29 April, 1990, Sarwanand Kaul Premi, a veteran Kashmiri poet was gruesomely murdered. Several intelligence operatives were assassinated, over the course of January. On February 2, 1990, Satish Tikoo, a young Hindu Pandit social-worker was murdered near his own house in Habba Kadal, Srinagar. On February 13th, 1990, Lassa Kaul, Station Director of Srinagar Doordarshan, was shot dead. Many Kashmiri Hindu women were kidnapped, raped and murdered, throughout the time of exodus.\n\nHriday Nath Wanchoo, a trade union leader and human rights activist, was murdered in December 1992 with Ashiq Hussain Faktoo being convicted for the murder.\n\nThe militancy in Kashmir had increased after the exodus. The militants had targeted the properties of Kashmiri Pandits after their exodus. In 2009 Oregon Legislative Assembly passed a resolution to recognise 14 September 2007, as Martyrs Day to acknowledge ethnic cleansing and campaigns of terror inflicted on non-Muslim minorities of Jammu and Kashmir by militant seeking to establish an Islamic state.\n\nKashmiri Hindus continue to fight for their return to the valley and many of them live as refugees. The exiled community had hoped to return after the situation improved. They have not done so because the situation in the Valley remains unstable and they fear a risk to their lives. Most of them lost their properties after the exodus and many are unable to go back and sell them. Their status as displaced people has adversely harmed them in the realm of education. Many Pandit families could not afford to send their children to well regarded public schools. Furthermore, Pandits faced institutional discrimination by predominantly Muslim state bureaucrats. As a result of the inadequate ad hoc schools and colleges formed in the refugee camps, it became harder for the children of Pandits to access education. They suffered in higher education as well, as they could not claim admission in PG colleges of Jammu university, while getting admitted in the institutes of Kashmir valley was out of question. Later the Indian Government has taken up the issue of education of the displaced students from Kashmir, and helped them get admissions in various Kendriya Vidyalayas and major educational institutions & universities across the country. In 2010, the Government of Jammu and Kashmir noted that 808 Pandit families, comprising 3,445 people, were still living in the Valley and that financial and other incentives put in place to encourage others to return there had been unsuccessful. According to a Jammu and Kashmir government report, 219 members of the Pandit community out of total 1400 Hindus, had been killed in the region between 1989 and 2004 but none thereafter.\n\nThe local organisation of Pandits in Kashmir, Kashmir Pandit Sangharsh Samiti (KPSS) after carrying out a survey in 2008 and 2009, said that 399 Kashmiri Pandits were killed by insurgents from 1990 to 2011 with 75% of them being killed during the first year of the Kashmiri insurgency, and that during the last 20 years, about 650 Pandits have been killed in the valley. Kashmiri Pandit Sangharsh Samiti, estimates 357 pandits were killed in Kashmir in 1990. \n\nPanun Kashmir, a political group representing the Pandits who fled Kashmir, has published a list of about 1,341 Pandits killed since 1990. An organisation called Roots of Kashmir filed a petition in 2017 to reopen 215 cases of more than 700 alleged murders of Kashmiri Pandits, however the Supreme Court of India refused its plea.\n\nWhilst some Pandit organisations such as Panun Kashmir etc. have accused Kashmiri Muslims of genocide and mass-rape, during the times of exodus, authors have labeled the claims as \"exaggerated\". Scholars Mridu Rai and A. Evans have outright rejected the claims of genocide.\n\nSome scholars have also accused the Indian state and Media of utilizing the experience of Pandits as a tool of propaganda. In February 1993, a notable Indian magazine launched an investigation upon a list of 23 shrines provided by Bharatiya Janata Party and found that the claims of alleged desecration of scores of Hindu shrines in Kashmir, widely perpetuated by the Indian media and right-wing Hindu politicians, were \"false\".\n\nFurther, whilst significantly higher figures of death, in thousands, have been reported by certain Pandit-organisations, scholars have rejected the claims, instead choosing to roughly rely upon the official figures. According to the government of Jammu and Kashmir 219 Kashmiri Pandits were killed and 24,202 families migrated out of the valley.\n\nThe Indian Government has tried to rehabilitate the Pandits and the separatists have also invited the Pandits back to Kashmir. Tahir, the commander of a separatist Islamic group, ensured full protection to the Kashmiri Pandits.\n\nThe apathy on the part of the government and the sufferings of the Kashmiri Pandits have been highlighted in a play titled 'Kaash Kashmir'. Such efforts or claims have lacked political will as journalist Rahul Pandita writes in a memoir.\n\nSome consider Article 370 as a roadblock in the resettlement of Kashmiri Pandits as the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir does not allow those living in India outside Jammu and Kashmir to freely settle in the state and become its citizens.\n\nSanjay Tickoo, president of Kashmiri Pandit Sangarsh Samiti (KPSS), says that the 'Article 370' affair is different from the issue of exodus of Kashmiri Hindus and both should be dealt with separately. He remarks that, linking both the affairs is an \"utterly insensitive way to deal with a highly sensitive and emotive issue\".\n\nAs of 2016, a total of 1,800 Kashmiri Pandit youths have returned to the Valley since the announcing of Rs. 1,168-crore package in 2008 by the UPA government. R.K. Bhat, president of Youth All India Kashmiri Samaj criticised the package to be a mere eyewash and claimed that most of the youths were living in cramped prefabricated sheds or in rented accommodation. He also said that 4,000 vacancies have been lying vacant since 2010 and alleged that the BJP government was repeating the same rhetoric and was not serious about helping them. In an interview with NDTV on January 19, Farooq Abdullah commented that the onus was on Kashmiri Pandits to come back themselves and nobody would beg them to do so. His comments were met with disagreement by Kashmiri Pandit authors Neeru Kaul, Siddhartha Gigoo, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and retired General Syed Ata Hasnain. He also said that during his tenure as Chief Minister in 1996, he had asked them to return but they refused to do so. He reiterated his comments on January 23 and said that the time had come for them to return.\n\nThe issue of separate townships for Kashmiri Pandits has been a source of contention in Kashmir with separatists as well as mainstream political parties opposing it. Hizbul Mujahideen militant, Burhan Muzaffar Wani, had threatened of attacking the \"Pandit composite townships\" which were meant to be built for the rehabilitation of the non-Muslim community. In a 6-minute long video clip, Wani described the rehabilitation scheme as resembling Israeli designs.\n\nHowever, Burhan Wani welcomed the Kashmiri Pandits to return and promised to guard them. He also promised a safe Amarnath Yatra. Kashmiri Pandits residing in the Valley also mourned Burhan Wani's death. Burhan Wani's successor in the Hizbul Mujahideen, Zakir Rashid Bhat, also asked the Kashmiri Pandits to return and ensured them protection.\n\nDuring the 2016 Kashmir unrest, transit camps housing Kashmir Pandits in Kashmir were attacked by mobs. About 200–300 Kashmiri Pandit employees fled the transit camps in Kashmir during night time on 12 July due to the attacks by protesters on the camps and have held protests against the government for attacks on their camp and demanded that all Kashmiri Pandit employees in Kashmir valley be evacuated immediately. Over 1300 government employees belonging to the community have fled the region during the unrest. Posters threatening the Pandits to leave Kashmir or be killed were put up near transit camps in Pulwama allegedly by the militant organisation Lashkar-e-Islam. There were doubts as to who put up the poster with speculations being raised as to whether other groups had put up the poster using the name of Lashkar-e-Islam.\n\nThe employment package was also extended to Pandits who did not migrate out of the valley with an amendment to \"J&K Migrants (Special Drive) Recruitment Rules, 2009\" in October 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "327620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327620", "title": "Gabo Reform", "text": "Gabo Reform\n\nThe Gabo Reform, also known as the Kabo Reform, describes a series of sweeping reforms suggested to the government of Korea beginning in 1894 and ending in 1896 during the reign of Gojong of Korea in response to the Donghak Peasant Revolution. Historians debate the degree of Japanese influence in this program, as well as its effect in encouraging modernization. The name Gabo (갑오, 甲午) comes from the name of the year 1894 in the traditional sexagenary cycle.\n\nThe disarray and blatant corruption in the Korean government, particularly in the three main areas of revenues – land tax, military service and the state granary system – weighed heavily on the Korean peasantry which represented 90% of the population and was uniformly illiterate. Of special note is the corruption of the local functionaries (Hyangi) who could purchase an appointment as administrators and so cloak their predations on the farmers with an aura of officialdom. Yangban families, formerly well-respected for their status as a noble class, were increasingly seen as little more than commoners who were unwilling to meet their responsibilities to their communities. Faced with increasing corruption in the government, brigandage of the disenfranchised -(such as the mounted fire brigands, or \"Hwajok\", and the boat-borne water brigands or \"Sujok\")- as well as abuse by the military, many poor village folk sought to pool their resources such as land, tools and production in order to survive. Despite the government abolishing slavery and burning the records in 1801, increasing numbers of peasants and farmers become involved in KYE or \"mutual assistance associations\". Institutions such as the Catholic and Protestant missions, with the egalitarian nature of their teachings garnered followings among the Yangban, though commonly in the more urban areas.\n\nArguably of greater influence were the religious teachings of Choi Che-u, (최제우, 崔濟愚, 1824–1864) called Donghak or \"Eastern Learning\" which became especially popular in rural areas. Themes of Exclusionism (of foreign influences), Nationalism, Salvation and Social Consciousness were set to music allowing illiterate farmers to understand and accept them more readily. Choe, as well as many Koreans, was also alarmed by the intrusion of Christianity and the Anglo-French occupation of Beijing during the 2nd Opium War. He believed that the best way to counter foreign influence in Korea was to introduce democratic and human rights reforms internally. Nationalism and social reform struck a chord among the peasant guerrillas, and Donghak spread all across Korea. Progressive revolutionaries organized the peasants into a cohesive structure. Arrested in 1863 following the Chinju Uprising led by YU Kye-cheun, Choe was charged with \"misleading the people and sowing discord in society\". Choe was executed in 1864, sending many of his followers into hiding in the mountains and leaving the Korean populace to continue to suffer.\n\nKing Kojong (r. 1864-1910), enthroned at the age of twelve, succeeded King Cheolchong (r. 1849 - 1863). King Kojong's father, Heungseon Daewongun(Yi Ha-Ung; 1820-1898), ruled as the de facto regent and inaugurated far-ranging reform to strengthen the central administration. Among his targeted reforms was addressing the inherited rule by a few elite ruling families by the adoption of a merit system for official appointments. In addition, [Seowon] (private academies), which threatened to develop a parallel system to the corrupt government and enjoyed special privileges and large land-holdings, were repressed through taxes despite bitter opposition from Confucian scholars. The decision to rebuild palace buildings and finance it through additional levies on the population caused Heungseon Daewongun's attempted reforms to antagonize the three largest constituencies supporting the government: the ruling elite, the Confucian scholars and the general population. Heungseon Daewongun was impeached in 1873 and forced into retirement by the supporters of Empress Myeongseong.\n\nOn 27 February 1876, the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1876, also known in Japan as the Japanese-Korea Treaty of Amity (Japanese language: 日朝修好条規 Nitchō-shūkōjōki, Korean language: 강화도조약 江華島條約 Ganghwado joyak) was signed. It was designed to open up Korea to Japanese trade, and the rights granted to Japan under the treaty were similar to those granted Western powers in Japan following the visit of Commodore Perry in 1854.[9]. However, the treaty ended Korea's status as a protectorate of China, forced open three Korean ports to Japanese trade, granted extraterritorial rights to Japanese citizens and was an unequal treaty signed under duress of the Unyo Incident of 1875 (gunboat diplomacy).[9] Daewongun remained opposed to any concessions to Japan or the West, helped organize the Mutiny of 1882 Imo Incident, an anti-Japanese outbreak against the Empress and her allies. Motivated by resentment of the preferential treatment given to newly trained troops, Daewongun's forces, or \"old military\", killed Japanese training cadre and attacked the Japanese legation. Japanese diplomats, policemen, students and some Min clan members were also killed during the incident. Daewongun was restored to power briefly, only to be forcibly taken to China by Chinese troops dispatched to Seoul to prevent further disorder. In August 1882, the Treaty of Chemulpo (Japan–Korea Treaty of 1882) idemnified the families of the Japanese victims, paid reparation to the Japanese government in the amount of 500,000 yen and allowed a company of Japanese guards to be stationed at the Japanese legation in Seoul.\n\nThe struggle between Heungseon Daewongun's followers and those of Empress Myeongseong was further complicated by competition from a Korean independence faction known as the Progressive Party (Kaehwadang) as well as Conservative faction. While the former sought Japan's support, the latter sought China's support. On 4 December 1884, the Korean independence group, assisted by the Japanese, attempted a coup (Kapsin Chongbyon; Coup d'État of 1884) and established a pro-Japanese government under the reigning king, dedicated to the independence of Korea from Chinese suzerainty. However, this proved short-lived, as conservative Korean officials requested the help of Chinese forces stationed in Korea. The coup was put down by Chinese troops, and a Korean mob killed both Japanese officers and Japanese residents in retaliation. Some leaders of the independence faction, including Kim Okgyun, fled to Japan, while others were executed.\n\nThe outbreak of the Donghak Peasant Revolution in 1894 provided a seminal pretext for direct military intervention by Japan in the affairs of Korea. Seeking redress of long-standing hardship and corruption disparate factions among the Korean peasant population coalesced into a militant force and revolted against the Korean administration. In April, 1894 the Korean government asked for Chinese assistance in ending the Donghak Peasant Revolt. In response Japanese leaders, citing a violation of Convention of Tientsin as a pretext, decided upon military intervention to challenge China. China requested Japan withdraw her troops, Japan refused and proposed that the Qing and Japan co-ordinate to reform the Korean government. The Qing refused. On May 3, 1894, 1,500 Qing Dynasty forces appeared in Incheon. The same day, 6,000 Japanese forces also landed in Incheon leading to the Sino-Japanese War. Japan deposed the Korean government and installed a new government which demanded the Qing leave, and began a programme of reform. Japan won the First Sino-Japanese War, and China signed the Treaty of Shimonoseki in 1895. Among its many stipulations, the treaty recognized \"the full and complete independence and autonomy of Korea,\" thus ending Korea's tributary relationship with the Chinese Qing Dynasty, leading to the proclamation of full independence of Joseon Korea in 1895. At the same time, Japan suppressed the Donghak Revolution with Korean government forces. Though the revolt had been ended, the issues and complaints of the Korean peasant population remained unaddressed.\n\nThe reforms were done largely in three stages, according to the changing members of the reform council and the involvement of Japan. There were three stages of development.\n\nThe first reforms took place from July to October 1894, based on the original reform bill presented by Japanese ambassador Otori Keisuke (大鳥圭介), that had been previously refused by the Joseon court and Qing dynasty. As Japan was focused more on the Sino-Japanese War, many of the first reforms reflected the desired reforms of the progressive council members and some of the reforms demanded by the peasants of the Donghak Peasant Revolution did not go undenied. The deliberate Council passed 210 reform bills by Kim Hongjip. At the first stage of reform, there was little interference from Japan.\n\nTwo-hundred and ten articles were established, most notably the restructuring of central government by greatly reducing the king's responsibilities and placing more power in the \"Uijeongbu\". The \"gwageo\" system was abolished and replaced by a Japanese bureaucratic system. The administration of financial affairs were centralized, the taxation system redressed, a new monetary system allowed the use of Japanese currency, and the measurement system was changed to that of Japan. \nOther social reforms were addressed as well; discrimination based on the class system, slavery, underage marriage were all banned and widows were granted the right to remarry. These reforms would legally change the traditional feudal system that had been followed for hundreds of years.\n\nThe second state of reform took place from December 1894 to July 1895. Japan closed down the \"Gunguk Gimucheo\" in December 1894 as the outcome of the Sino-Japanese War was leaning to their favor and set up a new coalition cabinet consisting of Kim Hongjip and Park Younghyo. The cabinet presented a new law, \"Hongbeom 14jo\" (홍범 14조, \"Exemplary Rules\" 14 articles), which proclaimed the severance of the subordinate relationship with China, abolishment of nepotism in government, restructure of government offices and their duties. With this law as foundation, 213 new articles were created.\nThe names of \"Uijeongbu\" and its subsidiaries were changed to the modern \"naegak\" (내각, cabinet) and \"bu\" (부, department). Administrative districts were reorganized to 23 \"bu\"(부, region) and 337 \"gun\"(군, district). New financial bureaus were installed throughout the nation to overlook tax affairs, military and police systems were rehauled and modernized, judicial systems were changed with new courthouse and judiciary laws.\n\nThe second reform measures were halted when Park Young Hyo, who had been at the center of the reform efforts, fled to Japan after being accused of conspiracy to treason by those who were against the reformations that were taking place.\n\nThe Japanese minister to Korea, Miura Gorō, orchestrated a plot against 43-year-old Queen Min\n(later given the title Empress Myeongseong), and on 8 October 1895, she was assassinated by Japanese agents. In 2001, Russian reports on the assassination were found in the archives of the Foreign Ministry of the Russian Federation. The documents included the testimony of King Gojong, several witnesses of the assassination, and Karl Ivanovich Weber's report to Aleksey Lobanov-Rostovsky, the Foreign Minister of Russia. Weber was the chargé d'affaires at the Russian legation in Seoul at that time. According to a Russian eyewitness, Seredin-Sabatin (Середин-Cабатин), an employee of the Korean king, a group of Japanese agents entered Gyeongbokgung, killed Queen Min and desecrated her body in the north wing of the palace.\n\nWhen he heard the news, Heungseon Daewongun returned to the royal palace the same day. On 11 February 1896, King Gojong and the crown prince moved from Gyeongbokgung to the Russian legation in Jeong-dong, Seoul, from where they governed for about one year, an event known as the Korea royal refuge at the Russian legation. After returning to the royal palace, the royal family was still guarded by Russian guards.\n\nIn the midst of disarray in Joseon politics at this time, a series of Seonbi scholars mobilized volunteers to fight against the external foreign influence on the government. This also led to the uprising of the Eulmi temporary armies aimed at avenging the assassination of Queen Min.\n\nSpurred greatly by the assassination of the queen and subsequent unrest, the government, then led by a new progressive cabinet headed by Kim Hong-jip and Yu Kil-chun, carried out reforms from October 1895 to February 1896. A special reform body, \"Gunguk Gimucheo\" (군국기무처, Deliberative Council), was created to establish rules. Their policies resulted in the official discarding of the lunar calendar in favor of the modern Gregorian solar calendar, the official designation of regnal years independent of the Chinese tradition, the creation of a postal service, the introduction of primary schools and a new educational system and the renewal of the military system.\n\nThe most controversial reform at this time was the proclamation of the \"Short Hair Act\" (), i.e. cutting off the traditional Korean male sangtu and reformation of traditional attire. It triggered many protests among the people, most notably the conservative scholars, who were already disillusioned by the pro-Japanese cabinet. They had created the Righteous Army and had actively protested nationwide; protests which escalated after the assassination of Empress Myeongseong in 1895. After King Gojong and the Crown Prince fled for refuge to the Russian legation in 1896, this opposition resulted in the murders of Kim Hongjip and other cabinet members, and the reformations came to an end.\n\nThe Gabo Reform was similar to the Meiji Restoration in Japan and produced the following sweeping changes and declarations:\n\nAfter the Royal Refuge, some Korean activists established the Independence Club (독립협회, 獨立協會) in 1896. They claimed that Korea should negotiate with Western powers, particularly Russia, to counterbalance the growing influence of Japan and Russia. This club had contributed to the construction of Independence Gate, and they held regular meetings at the Jongno streets, demanding democratic reforms as Korea became a constitutional monarchy, and an end to Japanese and Russian influence in Korean affairs. In October 1897, King Gojong decided to return to his other palace, Deoksugung, and proclaimed the founding of the Korean Empire. During this period, the Korean government conducted a westernization policy. It was not an enduring reform, however, and the Independence Club was dissolved on 25 December 1898 as Emperor Gojong officially announced a prohibition on unofficial congresses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28765301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28765301", "title": "Groves classification system", "text": "Groves classification system\n\nThe Groves Classification is a numbering system to enable the shape of any academic gown or hood to be easily described and identified. It was devised by Nicholas Groves to establish a common terminology for hoods and gown to remedy the situation of individual universities using differing terms to describe the same item. As such it is used in same manner as an heraldic blazon whereby a textual description enables a coat of arms to be drawn. The system was first described in the Burgon Society's annual in 2001 and adopted as standard by robe makers and scholars of academic dress.\n\nThe original Groves Classification included a standardization for shapes and patterns of hoods and gowns worn by graduates and undergraduates. Further information was given regarding the use of different fabrics and standardization of colors, but the focus was placed on gowns and hoods which are explained further below.\n\nThe Classification undergoes periodic revision as new hood and gown patterns emerge.\n\nHoods in the Classification are divided into three different types as summarised in the table below. Unlike the gowns and robes, these are based on the shape of the hood rather than the degrees for which they are worn.\n\n\nGowns in the Groves system are divided into three classes. These generally follow the shapes associated with each different academic degree in the British educational system. \n\nThe Groves classification system was first published in 2001. Since that time, it has been adapted and changed to include newly devised academic dress and revisions of existing schemes. The Burgon Society maintains a comprehensive listing of system shapes on its website. In addition to those included above, the current list classifies undergraduate gowns in use throughout the United Kingdom and academic headwear.\n"}
{"id": "14530447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14530447", "title": "Infrared sensing in snakes", "text": "Infrared sensing in snakes\n\nThe ability to sense infrared thermal radiation evolved independently in several different families of snakes. Essentially, it allows these animals to \"see\" radiant heat at wavelengths between 5 and 30 μm to a degree of accuracy such that a blind rattlesnake can target vulnerable body parts of the prey at which it strikes, and other snakes with the organ may detect warm bodies from a metre away. It was previously thought that the organs evolved primarily as prey detectors, but recent evidence suggests that it may also be used in thermoregulation and predator detection, making it a more general-purpose sensory organ than was supposed.\n\nThe facial pit underwent parallel evolution in pitvipers and some boas and pythons. It evolved once in pitvipers and multiple times in boas and pythons. The electrophysiology of the structure is similar between the two lineages, but they differ in gross structural anatomy. Most superficially, pitvipers possess one large pit organ on either side of the head, between the eye and the nostril (loreal pits), while boas and pythons have three or more comparatively smaller pits lining the upper and sometimes the lower lip, in or between the scales (labial pits). Those of the pitvipers are the more advanced, having a suspended sensory membrane as opposed to a simple pit structure. \nIn vipers, the pit organ is seen only in the subfamily Crotalinae: the pitvipers. The organ is used extensively by them to detect and target warm-blooded prey such as rodents and birds, and it was previously assumed that the organ evolved specifically for that purpose. However, recent evidence shows that the pit organ may also be used for thermoregulation. In an experiment that tested snakes' abilities to locate a cool thermal refuge in an uncomfortably hot maze, all pitvipers were able to locate the refuge quickly and easily, while true vipers were unable to do so. This suggests that the pitvipers were using their pit organs to aid in thermoregulatory decisions. It is also possible that the organ may even have evolved as a defensive adaptation rather than a predatory one, or that multiple pressures may have potentially contributed to the organ's development. The use of the heat pit to direct thermoregulation in pythons and boas has not yet been determined. Viperinae snakes (which lack pit organs) also use thermal cues to guide strike behavior, but not to guide thermoregulation.\n\nIn pitvipers, the heat pit consists of a deep pocket in the rostrum with a membrane stretched across it. Behind the membrane, an air-filled chamber provides air contact on either side of the membrane. The pit membrane is highly vascular and heavily innervated with numerous heat-sensitive receptors formed from terminal masses of the trigeminal nerve (terminal nerve masses, or TNMs). The receptors are therefore not discrete cells, but a part of the trigeminal nerve itself. The labial pit found in boas and pythons lacks the suspended membrane and consists more simply of a pit lined with a membrane that is similarly innervated and vascular, though the morphology of the vasculature differs between these snakes and crotalines. The purpose of the vasculature, in addition to providing oxygen to the receptor terminals, is to rapidly cool the receptors to their thermo-neutral state after being heated by thermal radiation from a stimulus. Were it not for this vasculature, the receptor would remain in a warm state after being exposed to a warm stimulus, and would present the animal with afterimages even after the stimulus was removed. \n\nIn all cases, the facial pit is innervated by the trigeminal nerve. In crotalines, information from the pit organ is relayed to the nucleus reticularus caloris in the medulla via the lateral descending trigeminal tract. From there, it is relayed to the contralateral optic tectum. In boas and pythons, information from the labial pit is sent directly to the contralateral optic tectum via the lateral descending trigeminal tract, bypassing the nucleus reticularus caloris.\n\nIt is the optic tectum of the brain which eventually processes these infrared cues. This portion of the brain receives other sensory information as well, most notably optic stimulation, but also motor, proprioceptive and auditory. Some neurons in the tectum respond to visual or infrared stimulation alone; others respond more strongly to combined visual and infrared stimulation, and still others respond only to a combination of visual and infrared. Some neurons appear to be tuned to detect movement in one direction. It has been found that the snake’s visual and infrared maps of the world are overlaid in the optic tectum. This combined information is relayed via the tectum to the forebrain.\n\nThe nerve fibers in the pit organ are constantly firing at a very low rate. Objects that are within a neutral temperature range do not change the rate of firing; the neutral range is determined by the average thermal radiation of all objects in the receptive field of the organ. The thermal radiation above a given threshold causes an increase in the temperature of the nerve fiber, resulting in stimulation of the nerve and subsequent firing, with increased temperature resulting in increased firing rate. The sensitivity of the nerve fibers is estimated to be >0.001 °C.\n\nThe pit organ will adapt to a repeated stimulus; if an adapted stimulus is removed, there will be a fluctuation in the opposite direction. For example, if a warm object is placed in front of the snake, the organ will increase in firing rate at first, but after a while will adapt to the warm object and the firing rate of the nerves in the pit organ will return to normal. If that warm object is then removed, the pit organ will now register the space that it used to occupy as being colder, and as such the firing rate will be depressed until it adapts to the removal of the object. The latency period of adaptation is approximately 50-150 ms.\n\nThe facial pit actually visualizes thermal radiation using the same optical principles as a pinhole camera, wherein the location of a source of thermal radiation is determined by the location of the radiation on the membrane of the heat pit. However, studies that have visualized the thermal images seen by the facial pit using computer analysis have suggested that the resolution is actually extremely poor. The size of the opening of the pit results in poor resolution of small, warm objects, and coupled with the pit's small size and subsequent poor heat conduction, the image produced is of extremely low resolution and contrast. It is known that some focusing and sharpening of the image occurs in the lateral descending trigeminal tract, and it is possible that the visual and infrared integration that occurs in the tectum may also be used to help sharpen the image. In addition, snakes may deliberately choose ambush sites with low thermal background radiation (colder areas) to maximize the contrast of their warm prey in order to achieve such a high degree of accuracy from their thermal “vision”.\n\nIn spite of its detection of infrared light, the infrared detection mechanism is not similar to photoreceptors - while photoreceptors detect light via photochemical reactions, the protein in the pits of snakes is a type of transient receptor potential channel, TRPA1 which is a temperature sensitive ion channel. It senses infrared signals through a mechanism involving warming of the pit organ, rather than chemical reaction to light. In structure and function it resembles a biological version of warmth-sensing instrument called a bolometer. This is consistent with the thin pit membrane, which would allow incoming infrared radiation to quickly and precisely warm a given ion channel and trigger a nerve impulse, as well as the vascularization of the pit membrane in order to rapidly cool the ion channel back to its original temperature state. While the molecular precursors of this mechanism are found in other snakes, the protein is both expressed to a much lower degree and is much less sensitive to heat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30870726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30870726", "title": "Judicial interpretation", "text": "Judicial interpretation\n\nJudicial interpretation refers to different ways that the judiciary uses to interpret the law, particularly constitutional documents and legislation. This is an important issue in some common law jurisdictions such as the United States, Australia and Canada, because the supreme courts of those nations can overturn laws made by their legislatures via a process called judicial review. \n\nFor example, the United States Supreme Court has decided such topics as the legality of slavery as in the Dred Scott decision, and desegregation as in the \"Brown v Board of Education\" decision, and abortion rights as in the \"Roe v Wade\" decision. As a result, how justices interpret the constitution, and the ways in which they approach this task has a political aspect. Terms describing types of judicial interpretation can be ambiguous; for example, the term \"judicial conservatism\" can vary in meaning depending on what is trying to be \"conserved\". One can look at judicial interpretation along a continuum from judicial restraint to judicial activism, with different viewpoints along the continuum.\n\nIn the United States, there are different ways to do judicial interpretation:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10854684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10854684", "title": "Karnaugh map", "text": "Karnaugh map\n\nThe Karnaugh map (KM or K-map) is a method of simplifying Boolean algebra expressions. Maurice Karnaugh introduced it in 1953 as a refinement of Edward Veitch's 1952 Veitch chart, which actually was a rediscovery of Allan Marquand's 1881 \"logical diagram\" aka Marquand diagram but with a focus now set on its utility for switching circuits. Veitch charts are therefore also known as \"Marquand–Veitch diagrams\", and Karnaugh maps as \"Karnaugh–Veitch maps\" (\"KV maps\").\n\nThe Karnaugh map reduces the need for extensive calculations by taking advantage of humans' pattern-recognition capability. It also permits the rapid identification and elimination of potential race conditions.\n\nThe required Boolean results are transferred from a truth table onto a two-dimensional grid where, in Karnaugh maps, the cells are ordered in Gray code, and each cell position represents one combination of input conditions, while each cell value represents the corresponding output value. Optimal groups of 1s or 0s are identified, which represent the terms of a canonical form of the logic in the original truth table. These terms can be used to write a minimal Boolean expression representing the required logic.\n\nKarnaugh maps are used to simplify real-world logic requirements so that they can be implemented using a minimum number of physical logic gates. A sum-of-products expression can always be implemented using AND gates feeding into an OR gate, and a product-of-sums expression leads to OR gates feeding an AND gate. Karnaugh maps can also be used to simplify logic expressions in software design. Boolean conditions, as used for example in conditional statements, can get very complicated, which makes the code difficult to read and to maintain. Once minimised, canonical sum-of-products and product-of-sums expressions can be implemented directly using AND and OR logic operators. Diagrammatic and mechanical methods for minimizing simple logic expressions have existed since at least the medieval times. More systematic methods for minimizing complex expressions began to be developed in the early 1950s, but until the mid to late 1980's the Karnaugh map was the most common used in practice.\n\nKarnaugh maps are used to facilitate the simplification of Boolean algebra functions. For example, consider the Boolean function described by the following truth table.\n\nFollowing are two different notations describing the same function in unsimplified Boolean algebra, using the Boolean variables , , , , and their inverses.\n\n\n1)In this time the four input variables can be combined in 16 different ways, so the truth table has 16 rows, and the K-map has 16 positions. The K-map is therefore arranged in a 4 × 4 grid.\n\nThe row and column indices (shown across the top, and down the left side of the Karnaugh map) are ordered in Gray code rather than binary numerical order. Gray code ensures that only one variable changes between each pair of adjacent cells. Each cell of the completed Karnaugh map contains a binary digit representing the function's output for that combination ofÀ inputs.\n\nAfter the Karnaugh map has been constructed, it is used to find one of the simplest possible forms — a canonical form — for the information in the truth table. Adjacent 1s in the Karnaugh map represent opportunities to simplify the expression. The minterms ('minimal terms') for the final expression are found by encircling groups of 1s in the map. Minterm groups must be rectangular and must have an area that is a power of two (i.e., 1, 2, 4, 8…). Minterm rectangles should be as large as possible without containing any 0s. Groups may overlap in order to make each one larger. The optimal groupings in the example below are marked by the green, red and blue lines, and the red and green groups overlap. The red group is a 2 × 2 square, the green group is a 4 × 1 rectangle, and the overlap area is indicated in brown.\n\nThe cells are often denoted by a shorthand which describes the logical value of the inputs that the cell covers. For example, would mean a cell which covers the 2x2 area where and are true, i.e. the cells numbered 13, 9, 15, 11 in the diagram above. On the other hand, would mean the cells where is true and is false (that is, is true).\n\nThe grid is toroidally connected, which means that rectangular groups can wrap across the edges (see picture). Cells on the extreme right are actually 'adjacent' to those on the far left, in the sense that the corresponding input values only differ by one bit's; similarly, so are those at the very top and those at the bottom. Therefore, can be a valid term—it includes cells 12 and 8 at the top, and wraps to the bottom to include cells 10 and 14—as is , which includes the four corners.\n\nOnce the Karnaugh map has been constructed and the adjacent 1s linked by rectangular and square boxes, the algebraic minterms can be found by examining which variables stay the same within each box.\n\nFor the red grouping:\n\nThus the first minterm in the Boolean sum-of-products expression is .\n\nFor the green grouping, \"A\" and \"B\" maintain the same state, while \"C\" and \"D\" change. \"B\" is 0 and has to be negated before it can be included. The second term is therefore . Note that it is acceptable that the green grouping overlaps with the red one.\n\nIn the same way, the blue grouping gives the term .\n\nThe solutions of each grouping are combined: the normal form of the circuit is formula_5.\n\nThus the Karnaugh map has guided a simplification of\n\nIt would also have been possible to derive this simplification by carefully applying the axioms of boolean algebra, but the time it takes to do that grows exponentially with the number of terms.\n\nThe inverse of a function is solved in the same way by grouping the 0s instead.\n\nThe three terms to cover the inverse are all shown with grey boxes with different colored borders:\n\nThis yields the inverse:\n\nThrough the use of De Morgan's laws, the product of sums can be determined:\n\nKarnaugh maps also allow easy minimizations of functions whose truth tables include \"don't care\" conditions. A \"don't care\" condition is a combination of inputs for which the designer doesn't care what the output is. Therefore, \"don't care\" conditions can either be included in or excluded from any rectangular group, whichever makes it larger. They are usually indicated on the map with a dash or X.\n\nThe example on the right is the same as the example above but with the value of \"f\"(1,1,1,1) replaced by a \"don't care\". This allows the red term to expand all the way down and, thus, removes the green term completely.\n\nThis yields the new minimum equation:\n\nNote that the first term is just , not . In this case, the don't care has dropped a term (the green rectangle); simplified another (the red one); and removed the race hazard (removing the yellow term as shown in the following section on race hazards).\n\nThe inverse case is simplified as follows:\n\nKarnaugh maps are useful for detecting and eliminating race conditions. Race hazards are very easy to spot using a Karnaugh map, because a race condition may exist when moving between any pair of adjacent, but disjoint, regions circumscribed on the map. However, because of the nature of Gray coding, \"adjacent\" has a special definition explained above – we're in fact moving on a torus, rather than a rectangle, wrapping around the top, bottom, and the sides.\n\n\nWhether glitches will actually occur depends on the physical nature of the implementation, and whether we need to worry about it depends on the application. In clocked logic, it is enough that the logic settles on the desired value in time to meet the timing deadline. In our example, we are not considering clocked logic.\n\nIn our case, an additional term of formula_11 would eliminate the potential race hazard, bridging between the green and blue output states or blue and red output states: this is shown as the yellow region (which wraps around from the bottom to the top of the right half) in the adjacent diagram.\n\nThe term is redundant in terms of the static logic of the system, but such redundant, or consensus terms, are often needed to assure race-free dynamic performance.\n\nSimilarly, an additional term of formula_12 must be added to the inverse to eliminate another potential race hazard. Applying De Morgan's laws creates another product of sums expression for \"f\", but with a new factor of formula_13.\n\nThe following are all the possible 2-variable, 2 × 2 Karnaugh maps. Listed with each is the minterms as a function of formula_14 and the race hazard free (\"see previous section\") minimum equation. A minterm is defined as an expression that gives the most minimal form of expression of the mapped variables. All possible horizontal and vertical interconnected blocks can be formed. These blocks must be of the size of the powers of 2 (1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, ...). These expressions create a minimal logical mapping of the minimal logic variable expressions for the binary expressions to be mapped. Here are all the blocks with one field.\n\nA block can be continued across the bottom, top, left, or right of the chart. That can even wrap beyond the edge of the chart for variable minimization. This is because each logic variable corresponds to each vertical column and horizontal row. A visualization of the k-map can be considered cylindrical. The fields at edges on the left and right are adjacent, and the top and bottom are adjacent. K-Maps for four variables must be depicted as a donut or torus shape. The four corners of the square drawn by the k-map are adjacent. Still more complex maps are needed for 5 variables and more. \nAlternative graphical minimization methods include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7169703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7169703", "title": "Krogh's principle", "text": "Krogh's principle\n\nKrogh's principle states that \"for such a large number of problems there will be some animal of choice, or a few such animals, on which it can be most conveniently studied.\" This concept is central to those disciplines of biology that rely on the comparative method, such as neuroethology, comparative physiology, and more recently functional genomics.\n\nKrogh's principle is named after the Danish physiologist August Krogh, winner of the Nobel Prize in Physiology for his contributions to understanding the anatomy and physiology of the capillary system, who described it in The American Journal of Physiology in 1929. However, the principle was first elucidated nearly 60 years prior to this, and in almost the same words as Krogh, in 1865 by Claude Bernard, the French instigator of experimental medicine, on page 27 of his \"Introduction à l'étude de la médecine expérimentale\":\nKrogh wrote the following in his 1929 treatise on the then current 'status' of physiology (emphasis added):\n\"Krogh's principle\" was not utilized as a formal term until 1975 when the biochemist Hans Adolf Krebs (who initially described the Citric Acid Cycle), first referred to it.\n\nMore recently, at the International Society for Neuroethology meeting in Nyborg, Denmark in 2004, Krogh's principle was cited as a central principle by the group at their 7th Congress. Krogh's principle has also been receiving attention in the area of functional genomics, where there has been increasing pressure and desire to expand genomics research to a more wide variety of organisms beyond the traditional scope of the field.\n\nA central concept to Krogh's principle is evolutionary adaptation. Evolutionary theory maintains that organisms are suited to particular niches, some of which are highly specialized for solving particular biological problems. These adaptations are typically exploited by biologists in several ways:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32017750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32017750", "title": "Languaculture", "text": "Languaculture\n\nLanguaculture is a term meaning that a language includes not only elements such as grammar and vocabulary, but also past knowledge, local and cultural information, habits and behaviours. The term was created by the American anthropologist Michael Agar.\n\nAgar used the term \"languaculture\" for the first time in his essay \"Language Shock: Understanding the culture of conversation\". Languaculture is an adjustment of the term \"linguaculture\", suggested by the American linguistic anthropologist Paul Friedrich. Agar explains the vowel change stating that language is a more commonly used word.\n\nWhen Agar talks about languaculture, he defines it as the necessary tie between language and culture. He underlines that languages and cultures are always closely related and it is not possible to distinguish languages from cultures. Therefore, you cannot really know a language if you do not know also the culture expressed by that language.\n\nThe notion of culture and its understanding involve the link between two different languacultures that Agar define LC1 (source languaculture) and LC2 (target languaculture).\n\nThe learning of target languaculture is driven by \"rich points\". We realize that a culture is different from ours when we face some behaviours which we do not understand. Rich points are those surprises, those departures from an outsider’s expectations that signal a difference between source languaculture and target languaculture. They are the moments of incomprehension, when you suddenly do not know what is happening. In this situation different reactions are possible. You can ignore the rich point and hope that the next part makes sense. You can perceive it as evidence that the person who produced it has some lacks. Or you can wonder why you do not understand and if maybe some other languaculture comes into play. Therefore, rich points belong to daily life and not only to language. Agar highlights that the term \"rich\" has the positive connotations of thickness, wealth and abundance. The largest rich point is the total incomprehension due to huge differences between source languaculture and target languaculture. In this case we are facing a ‘culture shock’ that causes a deep bewilderment. The smallest rich point can occur among different groups of the same community.\nThe existence of rich points comes from the fact that every statement implicitly refers to various elements that are taken for granted in a certain culture and do not match the elements of another culture (cultural implicitness).\n\nAccording to Agar, culture is a construction, a translation between source languaculture and target languaculture. Like a translation, it makes no sense to talk about the culture of X without saying the culture of X for Y, taking into account the standpoint from which it is observed. For this reason culture is relational.\nMoreover, culture is always plural. No person or group can be described, explained or generalized completely with a single cultural label.\n\n"}
{"id": "577320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=577320", "title": "Language revitalization", "text": "Language revitalization\n\nLanguage revitalization, also referred to as language revival or reversing language shift, is an attempt to halt or reverse the decline of a language or to revive an extinct one. Those involved can include parties such as linguists, cultural or community groups, or governments. Some argue for a distinction between language revival (the resurrection of a dead language with no existing native speakers) and language revitalization (the rescue of a \"dying\" language). It has been pointed out that there has only been one successful instance of a complete language revival, that of the Hebrew language, creating a new generation of native speakers without any pre-existing native speakers as a model.\n\nLanguages targeted for language revitalization include those whose use and prominence is severely limited. Sometimes various tactics of language revitalization can even be used to try to revive extinct languages. Though the goals of language revitalization vary greatly from case to case, they typically involve attempting to expand the number of speakers and use of a language, or trying to maintain the current level of use to protect the language from extinction or language death.\n\nReasons for revitalization vary. In recent times alone, it is estimated that more than 2000 languages have already become extinct. The UN estimates that more than half of the languages spoken today have fewer than 10,000 speakers and that a quarter have fewer than 1,000 speakers and that, unless there are some efforts to maintain them, over the next hundred years most of these will become extinct. These figures are often cited as reasons why language revitalization is necessary to preserve linguistic diversity. Culture and identity are also frequently cited reasons for language revitalization, when a language is perceived as a unique \"cultural treasure.\" A community often sees language as a unique part of their culture, connecting them with their ancestors or with the land, making up an essential part of their history and self-image.\n\nLanguage revitalization is also closely tied to the linguistic field of language documentation. In this field, linguists attempt to create full records of a language's grammar, vocabulary, and linguistic features. This practice can often lead to more concern for the revitalization of a specific language on study. Furthermore, the task of documentation is often taken on with the goal of revitalization in mind.\n\nOne of the most important preliminary steps in language revitalization/recovering involves establishing the degree to which a particular language has been “dislocated”. This helps involved parties find the best way to assist or revive the language.\n\nThere are many different theories or models that attempt to lay out a plan for language revitalization. One of these is provided by celebrated linguist Joshua Fishman.\nFishman's model for reviving threatened (or sleeping) languages, or for making them sustainable, consists of an eight-stage process. Efforts should be concentrated on the earlier stages of restoration until they have been consolidated before proceeding to the later stages. The eight stages are:\n\n\nThis model of language revival is intended to direct efforts to where they are most effective and to avoid wasting energy trying to achieve the later stages of recovery when the earlier stages have not been achieved. For instance, it is probably wasteful to campaign for the use of a language on television or in government services if hardly any families are in the habit of using the language.\n\nAdditionally, Tasaku Tsunoda describes a range of different techniques or methods that speakers can use to try to revitalize a language, including techniques to revive extinct languages and maintain weak ones. The techniques he lists are often limited to the current vitality of the language.\n\nHe claims that the immersion method cannot be used to revitalize an extinct or moribund language. In contrast, the master-apprentice method of one-on-one transmission on language proficiency can be used with moribund languages. Several other methods of revitalization, including those that rely on technology such as recordings or media, can be used for languages in any state of viability.\n\nDavid Crystal, in his book \"Language Death\", proposes that language revitalization is more likely to be successful if its speakers\n\nGhil'ad Zuckermann proposes \"Revival Linguistics\" as a new linguistic discipline and paradigm.\nAccording to Zuckermann, \"revival linguistics combines scientific studies of native language acquisition and foreign language learning. After all, language reclamation is the most extreme case of second-language learning. Revival linguistics complements the established area of documentary linguistics, which records endangered languages before they fall asleep.\"\n\nZuckermann proposes that \"revival linguistics changes the field of historical linguistics by, for instance, weakening the family tree model, which implies that a language has only one parent.\"\n\nThere are disagreements in the field of language revitalization as to the degree that revival should concentrate on maintaining the traditional language, versus allowing simplification or widespread borrowing from the majority language.\nZuckermann acknowledges the presence of \"local peculiarities and idiosyncrasies\" but suggests that \"there are linguistic constraints applicable to all revival attempts. Mastering them would help revivalists and first nations' leaders to work more efficiently. For example, it is easier to resurrect basic vocabulary and verbal conjugations than sounds and word order. Revivalists should be realistic and abandon discouraging, counter-productive slogans such as \"Give us authenticity or give us death!\" Nancy Dorian has pointed out that conservative attitudes toward loanwords and grammatical changes often hamper efforts to revitalize endangered languages (as with Tiwi in Australia), and that a division can exist between educated revitalizers, interested in historicity, and remaining speakers interested in locally authentic idiom (as has sometimes occurred with Irish). Some have argued that structural compromise may, in fact, enhance the prospects of survival, as may have been the case with English in the post-Norman period.\n\nOther linguists have argued that when language revitalization borrows heavily from the majority language, the result is a new language, perhaps a creole or pidgin. For example, the existence of \"Neo-Hawaiian\" as a separate language from \"Traditional Hawaiian\" has been proposed, due to the heavy influence of English on every aspect of the revived Hawaiian language. This has also been proposed for Irish, with a sharp division between \"Urban Irish\" spoken by second-language speakers and traditional Irish as spoken as a first language in Gaeltacht areas. Ó Béarra stated: \"...[to] follow the syntax and idiomatic conventions of English, [would be] producing what amounts to little more than English in Irish drag.\" With regard to the then-moribund Manx language, the scholar T. F. O'Rahilly stated, \"When a language surrenders itself to foreign idiom, and when all its speakers become bilingual, the penalty is death.\" Neil McRae has stated that the uses of Scottish Gaelic are becoming increasingly tokenistic, and native Gaelic idiom is being lost in favor of artificial terms created by second-language speakers.\n\nTotal revival of a dead language (in the sense of having no native speakers) into a self-sustaining community of several million first language speakers has happened only once, in the case of the Hebrew language, now the national language of Israel. In this case, there was a unique set of historical and cultural characteristics that facilitated the revival (\"see Revival of the Hebrew language\").\n\nIn a related development, literary languages without native speakers enjoyed great prestige and practical utility as lingua francas, often counting millions of fluent speakers at a time. In many such cases, a decline in the use of the literary language, sometimes precipitous, was later accompanied by a strong renewal. This happened, for example, in the revival of Classical Latin in the Renaissance, and the revival of Sanskrit in the early centuries A.D. An analogous phenomenon in contemporary Arabic-speaking areas is the expanded use of the literary language (Modern Standard Arabic, a form of the Classical Arabic of the 6th century A.D.). This is taught to all educated speakers and is used in radio broadcasts, formal discussions, etc.\n\nIn addition, literary languages have sometimes risen to the level of becoming first languages of very large language communities. An example is standard Italian, which originated as a literary language derived from the language of 13th-century Florence, especially as used by such important Florentine writers as Dante, Petrarch and Boccaccio. This language existed for several centuries primarily as a literary vehicle, with few native speakers; even as late as 1861, on the eve of Italian unification, the language only counted about 500,000 speakers, many non-native, out of a total population of c. 22,000,000. The subsequent success of the language has been through conscious development, where speakers of any of the numerous Italian languages were taught standard Italian as a second language and subsequently imparted it to their children, who learned it as a first language. Of course this came at the expense of local Italian languages, most of which are now endangered. Success was enjoyed in similar circumstances by High German, standard Czech, Castilian Spanish and other languages.\n\nThe Ainu language of the indigenous Ainu people of northern Japan is currently moribund, but efforts are underway to revive it. A 2006 survey of the Hokkaido Ainu indicated that only 4.6% of Ainu surveyed were able to converse in or \"speak a little\" Ainu. As of 2001, Ainu was not taught in any elementary or secondary schools in Japan, but was offered at numerous language centres and universities in Hokkaido, as well as at Tokyo's Chiba University.\n\nIn China, the Manchu language is one of the most endangered languages, with speakers only in three small areas of Manchuria remaining. Some enthusiasts are trying to revive the language of their ancestors using available dictionaries and textbooks, and even occasional visits to Qapqal Xibe Autonomous County in Xinjiang, where the related Xibe language is still spoken natively.\n\nIn the Philippines, a variation of Spanish that was primarily based on Mexican Spanish was the \"lingua franca\" of the country since Spanish colonization in 1565 and was an official language alongside Filipino (a standardized form of the Tagalog language) and English until 1987 following a ratification of a new Constitution where it was re-designated as a voluntary language. As a result of its loss as an official language and years of marginalization at the official level during and after American colonization, the use of the Spanish language amongst the overall populace decreased dramatically and became moribund with the remaining native speakers left being mostly elderly people. However, it is currently seeing a slow revival due to past government promotion under the administration of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo. Most notably, Resolution No. 2006-028 reinstated Spanish as a mandatory subject in secondary schools and universities. Results were immediate as the job demand for Spanish speakers had increased since 2008. As of 2010, the \"Instituto Cervantes de Manila\" reported the number of Filipino Hispanophones with native or non-native knowledge at approximately 3 million (including those who speak the native Spanish-based Creole Chavacano). In addition to government efforts, Spanish has also seen a small revival of interest in media thanks to the importing of telenovelas and music from Latin America. \n\nHebrew, once largely a liturgical language, was reestablished as a means of everyday communication by Jews migrating to what is now the State of Israel and the Palestinian territories, starting in the nineteenth century: it is the world's most famous and successful example of language revitalization.\n\nIn Thailand, there exists a Chong language revitalization project which is headed by Suwilai Premsrirat.\n\nThe European colonization of Australia, and the consequent damage sustained by Aboriginal communities, had a catastrophic effect on indigenous languages in the southeast and south of the country, leaving them with no living traditional native speakers. A number of Aboriginal communities in Victoria and elsewhere are now trying to revive these languages. The work is typically directed by a group of elders and other knowledgeable people, with community language workers doing most of the research and teaching. They analyze the data, develop spelling systems and vocabulary and prepare resources. Decisions are made in collaboration. Some communities employ linguists, and there are also linguists who work independently.\n\nOne of the best cases of relative success in language revitalization is the case of Māori also known as \"te reo Māori\". It is the ancestral tongue of the indigenous Māori people of New Zealand and a vehicle for prose narrative, sung poetry, and genealogical recital. The history of the Māori people is taught in \"te reo Māori\" in sacred learning houses through oral transmission. Even after \"te reo Māori\" became a written language, the oral tradition was preserved.\n\nOnce European colonization began, many laws were enacted in order to promote the use of English over \"te reo Māori\" among indigenous people. The Education Ordinance Act of 1847 mandated school instruction in English and established boarding schools to speed up assimilation of Māori youths into European culture. The Native School Act of 1858 forbade \"te reo Māori\" from being spoken in schools. The colonial masters also promoted the use of English in Māori homes, convincing many parents that their children would not get jobs unless they spoke English.\n\nDuring the 1970s, a group of young Māori people, called the Nga Tamatoa, successfully campaigned for Māori to be taught in schools. Also, Kohanga Reo, Māori language preschools, called language nests, were established. The emphasis was on teaching children the language at a young age, a very effective strategy for language learning. The Māori Language Commission was formed in 1987, leading to a number of national reforms aimed at revitalizing \"te reo Māori\". They include media programs broadcast in \"te reo Māori\", undergraduate college programs taught in \"te reo Māori\", and an annual Māori language week. Each iwi, or tribe, created a language planning program catering to its specific circumstances. These efforts have resulted in a steady increase in children being taught in \"te reo Māori\" in schools since 1996, creating a significant number of fluent speakers and making Māori prominent and useful in the people's daily lives. The program has been so successful that similar programs have been based on it. See Māori language revival.\n\nIn Europe, in the 19th and early 20th centuries, the use of both local and learned languages declined as the central governments of the different states imposed their vernacular language as the standard throughout education and official use (this was the case in the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Italy and Greece, and to some extent, in Germany and Austria-Hungary).\n\nIn the last few decades, local nationalism and human rights movements have made a more multicultural policy standard in European states; sharp condemnation of the earlier practices of suppressing regional languages was expressed in the use of such terms as \"linguicide\". Campaigns have raised the profiles of local languages to such an extent that in some European regions, the local languages have acquired the status of official languages, along with the national language. The Council of Europe's action in this area (see European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages) is in contrast to the European Union's granting of official status to a restricted number of official languages (see Languages of the European Union). Presently, official attempts to revitalise languages under threat, such as the promotion of Welsh, Galician, Basque and Catalan in their respective native regions, have seen varying degrees of success.\n\nOne of the best known European attempts at language revitalization concerns the Irish language. While English is dominant through most of Ireland, Irish, a Celtic language, is still spoken in certain areas called \"Gaeltachtaí\", but there it is in serious decline. The challenges faced by the language over the last few centuries have included exclusion from important domains, social denigration, the death or emigration of many Irish speakers during the Irish famine of the 1840s, and continued emigration since. Efforts to revitalise Irish were being made, however, from the mid-1800s, and were associated with a desire for Irish political independence. Contemporary Irish language revitalization has chiefly involved teaching Irish as a compulsory language in mainstream English-speaking schools. But the failure to teach it in an effective and engaging way means (as linguist Andrew Carnie notes) that students do not acquire the fluency needed for the lasting viability of the language, and this leads to boredom and resentment. Carnie also noted a lack of media in Irish (2006), though this is no longer the case.\n\nThe decline of the Gaeltachtaí and the failure of state-directed revitalisation have been countered by an urban revival movement. This is largely based on an independent community-based school system, known generally as Gaelscoileanna. These schools teach entirely through Irish and their number is growing, with over thirty such schools in Dublin alone. They are an important element in the creation of a network of urban Irish speakers (known as Gaeilgeoirí), who tend to be young, well-educated and middle-class. It is now likely that this group has acquired critical mass, a fact reflected in the expansion of Irish-language media. Irish language television has enjoyed particular success. It has been argued that they tend to be better educated than monolingual English speakers and enjoy higher social status. They represent the transition of Irish to a modern urban world, with an accompanying rise in prestige.\n\nThere are also current attempts to revive the related language of Scottish Gaelic, which was suppressed following the formation of the United Kingdom, and entered further decline due to the Highland clearances. Currently, Gaelic is only spoken widely on the Western Isles and some areas of the Highland and Islands. The decline in fluent Gaelic speakers has slowed, however the population center has shifted to L2 speakers in urban areas, especially Glasgow.\n\nAnother Celtic language, Manx, lost its last native speaker in 1974 and was declared extinct by UNESCO in 2009, but never completely fell from use. The language is now taught in primary and secondary schools including the Bunscoill Ghaelgagh, used in some public events and spoken as a second language by approximately 1800 people. Revitalization efforts include radio shows in Manx Gaelic and social media and online resources. The Manx government has also been involved in the effort by creating organizations such as the Manx Heritage Foundation (also known as Culture Vannin) and the position of Manx Language Officer. The government has released an official Manx Language Strategy for 2017-2021.\n\nThere have been a number of attempts to revive the Cornish language, both privately and some under the Cornish Language Partnership. Some of the activities have included translation of the Christian scriptures, a guild of bards, and the promotion of Cornish literature in modern Cornish, including novels and poetry.\n\nIn recent years, a growing number of Native American tribes have been trying to revitalize their languages. For example, there is an Apple iPhone/iPod app for the Halq'emeylem language of the Greater Vancouver region of Canada. In addition, there are apps (including phrases, word lists and dictionaries) in many Native languages ranging from Cree, Cherokee and Chickasaw, to Lakota, Ojibway and Oneida, Massachusett, Navajo and Gwych'in.\n\nWampanoag, a language spoken by the people of the same name in Massachusetts, underwent a revitalization project led by Jessie Little Doe Baird. The project has seen children speaking the language fluently for the first time in over 100 years. In addition, there are currently attempts at revitalizing the Chochenyo language of California, which had become extinct.\n\nKichwa is the variety of the Quechua language spoken in Ecuador and is one of the most widely spoken indigenous languages in South America. Despite this fact, Kichwa is a threatened language, mainly because of the expansion of Spanish in South America. One community of original Kichwa speakers, Lagunas, was one of the first indigenous communities to switch to the Spanish language. According to King, this was because of the increase of trade and business with the large Spanish-speaking town nearby. The Lagunas people assert that it was not for cultural assimilation purposes, as they value their cultural identity highly. However, once this contact was made, language for the Lagunas people shifted through generations, to Kichwa and Spanish bilingualism and now is essentially Spanish monolingualism. The feelings of the Lagunas people present a dichotomy with language use, as most of the Lagunas members speak Spanish exclusively and only know a few words in Kichwa.\n\nThe prospects for Kichwa language revitalization are not promising, as parents depend on schooling for this purpose, which is not nearly as effective as continual language exposure in the home. Schooling in the Lagunas community, although having a conscious focus on teaching Kichwa, consists of mainly passive interaction, reading, and writing in Kichwa. In addition to grassroots efforts, national language revitalization organizations, like CONAIE, focus attention on non-Spanish speaking indigenous children, who represent a large minority in the country. Another national initiative, Bilingual Intercultural Education Project (PEBI), was ineffective in language revitalization because instruction was given in Kichwa and Spanish was taught as a second language to children who were almost exclusively Spanish monolinguals.\nAlthough some techniques seem ineffective, Kendall A. King provides several suggestions:\n\n\nSpecific suggestions include imparting an elevated perception of the language in schools, focusing on grassroots efforts both in school and the home, and maintaining national and regional attention.\n\nJohn McWhorter has argued that programs to revive indigenous languages will almost never be very effective because of the practical difficulties involved. He also argues that the death of a language does not necessarily mean the death of a culture. Indigenous expression is still possible even when the original language has disappeared, as with Native American groups and as evidenced by the vitality of black American culture in the United States, among people who speak not Yoruba but English. He argues that language death is, ironically, a sign of hitherto isolated peoples migrating and sharing space: “To maintain distinct languages across generations happens only amidst unusually tenacious self-isolation—such as that of the Amish—or brutal segregation”.\n\nKenan Malik has also argued that it is \"irrational\" to try to preserve all the world's languages, as language death is natural and in many cases inevitable, even with intervention. He proposes that language death improves communication by ensuring more people speak the same language. This may benefit the economy and reduce conflict. Others have pointed out that similarities in language and culture have not prevented brutal civil wars.\n\nThe protection of minority languages from extinction is often not a concern for speakers of the dominant language. Often times, there is prejudice and deliberate persecution of minority languages, in order to appropriate the cultural and economic capital of minority groups. At other times governments deem that the cost of revitalization programs and creating linguistically diverse materials is too great to take on.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7946248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7946248", "title": "Lemma (logic)", "text": "Lemma (logic)\n\nIn informal logic and argument mapping, a lemma is simultaneously a contention for premises below it and a premise for a contention above it. Transitivity: If one has proof that \"B\" follows from \"A\" and proof that \"C\" follows from \"B\", then one has proof that \"C\" follows from \"A\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2566535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2566535", "title": "Levee (ceremony)", "text": "Levee (ceremony)\n\nThe levee (from the French word \"lever\", meaning \"getting up\" or \"rising\") was traditionally a daily moment of intimacy and accessibility to a monarch or leader. It started out as a royal custom, but, in America, it later came to refer to a reception by the king’s representatives and, even later, by the president.\n\nIn Einhard's \"Life of Charlemagne\", the author recounts the Emperor's practice, when he was dressing and putting on his shoes, to invite his friends to come in and, in case of a dispute brought to his attention, \"he would order the disputants to be brought in there and then, hear the case as if he were sitting in tribunal and pronounce a judgement.\"\n\nBy the second half of the sixteenth century, it had become a formal event, requiring invitation. In 1563 Catherine de' Medici wrote in advice to her son, the King of France, to do as his father (Henry II) had done and uphold the practice of \"lever\". Catherine describes that Henry II allowed his subjects, from nobles to household servants, to come in while he dressed. She states this pleased his subjects and improved their opinion of him.\n\nThis practice was raised to a ceremonial custom at the court of King Louis XIV. In the court etiquette that Louis formalised, the set of extremely elaborate conventions was divided into the \"grand lever\", attended by the full court in the gallery outside the king's bedchamber, and the \"petit lever\" that transpired in degrees in the king's chamber, where only a very select group might serve the king as he rose and dressed. In fact, the king had often risen early and put in some hours hunting before returning to bed for the start of the \"lever\". Louis's grandson, King Philip V of Spain, and his queen typically spent all morning in bed, as reported by Saint-Simon, to avoid the pestering by ministers and courtiers that began with the lever.\n\nThe king's retiring ceremony proceeded in reverse order and was known as the \"coucher\".\n\nThe successors of Louis XIV were not as passionate about the Sun King's daily routine and, over time, the frequency of the \"lever\" and \"coucher\" decreased, much to the dismay of their courtiers.\n\nWhen the court of Charles II of England adopted the custom, first noted as an English usage in 1672, it was called a \"levée\". In the 18th century, as the fashionable dinner hour was incrementally moved later into the afternoon, the morning reception of the British monarch, attended only by gentlemen, was shifted forward towards noon.\n\nThe practice of holding court levées was continued by the British Monarchy until 1939. These took the form of a formal reception at St James's Palace at which officials, diplomats, and military officers of all three armed services, were presented individually to the sovereign. Full dress uniform or court dress was worn by all participants, who formed a queue in the Throne Room before stepping forward when their names and ranks were called. Each then bowed to the king who was seated on a dais with male members of his family, officials of the Royal Household and senior officers behind him. \n\nLevée ceremonies were held by regal representatives of the British Empire, such as the Viceroy of India, the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and the Governor-General or Governors of Australia. The ceremonial event of the Canadian Governor General's New Year's Day reception is still called his levée.\n\nBy the 1760s, the custom was being copied by the colonial governors in British America, but was abandoned in the United States following the American Revolutionary War. Beginning in 1789, President George Washington and First Lady Martha Washington held weekly public gatherings and receptions at the presidential mansion that were called levees. Designed to give the public access to the president and to project a dignified public image of the presidency, they were continued by John and Abigail Adams, but were discarded in 1801 by Thomas Jefferson.\n\nThe ceremony at Versailles has been described in detail by Louis de Rouvroy, duc de Saint-Simon. Louis XIV was a creature of habit and the inflexible routine that tired or irritated his heirs served him well. Wherever the king had actually slept, he was discovered sleeping in the close-curtained state bed standing in its alcove, which was separated from the rest of the \"chambre du roi\" by a gilded balustrade. He was woken at eight o'clock by his head valet de chambre —Alexandre Bontemps held this post for most of the reign — who alone had slept in the bedchamber. The chief physician, the chief surgeon and Louis' childhood nurse, as long as she lived, all entered at the same time, and the nurse kissed him. The night chamberpot was removed.\n\nThen the curtains of the bed were drawn once again and, at a quarter past eight, the Grand Chamberlain was called, bringing with him the nobles who had the privilege of the \"grande entrée\", a privilege that could be purchased, subject to the king's approval, but which was restricted in Louis' time to the nobles. The King remained in bed, in his nightshirt and a short wig. The Grand Chamberlain of France or, in his absence, the Chief Gentleman of the Bedchamber presented holy water to the king from a vase that stood at the head of the bed and the king's morning clothes were laid out. First, the Master of the Bedchamber and the First Servant, both high nobles, pulled the king's nightshirt over his head, one grasping each sleeve. The Grand Chamberlain presented the day shirt which, according to Saint-Simon, had been shaken out and sometimes changed, because the king perspired freely. This was a moment for any of those with the privilege of the \"grande entrée\" to have a swift private word with the king, which would have been carefully rehearsed beforehand to express a request as deferentially, but in as few words as possible. The King was given a missal and the gentlemen retired into the adjoining \"chambre du conseil\" (the \"council chamber\") while there was a brief private prayer for the King.\n\nWhen the King had them recalled, now accompanied by those who had the lesser privilege of the \"première entrée\", his process of dressing began. Louis preferred to dress himself \"for he did almost everything himself, with address and grace\", Saint-Simon remarked. The King was handed a dressing-gown, and a mirror was held for him, for he had no toilet table like ordinary gentlemen. Every other day the King shaved himself. Now, other privileged courtiers were admitted, a few at a time, at each stage, so that, as the King was putting on his shoes and stockings, \"everyone\" — in Saint-Simon's view — was there. This was the \"entrée de la chambre\", which included the king's readers and the director of the \"Menus Plaisirs\", that part of the royal establishment in charge of all preparations for ceremonies, events and festivities, to the last detail of design and order. At the \"entrée de la chambre\" were admitted the Grand Aumônier and the Marshal of France and the king's ministers and secretaries. A fifth entrée now admitted ladies for the first time, and a sixth entrée admitted, from a privileged position at a cramped backdoor, the king's children, legitimate and illegitimate indiscriminately — in scandalous fashion Saint-Simon thought — and their spouses.\n\nThe crowd in the \"chambre du Roi\" can be estimated from Saint-Simon's remark of the King's devotions, which followed: the King knelt at his bedside \"where all the clergy present knelt, the cardinals without cushions, all the laity remaining standing\".\n\nThe King then passed into the \"cabinet\" where all those who possessed any court office attended him. He then announced what he expected to do that day and was left alone with those among his favourites of the royal children born illegitimately (whom he had publicly recognised and legitimated) and a few favourites, with the valets. These were less pressing moments to discuss projects with the King, who parcelled out his attention with strict regard for the current standing of those closest to him.\nWith the entry of the King into the \"Grande Galerie\", where the rest of the court awaited him, the \"petit lever\" was finished, and with the \"grand lever\" the day was properly begun, as the king proceeded to daily Mass, sharing brief words as he progressed and even receiving some petitions. It was of these occasions that the King habitually remarked, in refusing a favour asked for some noble, \"We never see him\", meaning that he did not spend enough time at Versailles, where Louis wanted to keep the nobility penned up, to prevent them interesting themselves in politics.\n\nAmong the aristocracy, the levée could also become a crowded and social occasion, especially for women, who liked to put off the donning of their uncomfortable formal clothes, and whose hair and perhaps make-up needed prolonged attention. There is a famous depiction of the levée of an 18th-century Viennese lady of the court in Richard Strauss's later opera \"Der Rosenkavalier\", where she has her hair dressed while surrounded by a disorderly crowd of tradesmen touting for work or payment, and other petitioners, followed by a visit from a cousin. The second scene of William Hogarth's \"A Rake's Progress\" shows a male equivalent in 1730s London.\n\nIn the French engraving \"Le Lever\" after Freudenberg, of the 1780s (\"illustration, right\"), gentle social criticism is levelled at the lady of the court; that she slept without unlacing her stays, apparently, perhaps can be seen as artistic licence. Her maids dress her with deference, while the wallclock under the hangings of her \"lit à la polonaise\" appears to read noon.\n\nIn Sophia Coppola's \"Marie Antoinette\" the levée of the French queen, during the reigns of Louis XV and XVI is represented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "897740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897740", "title": "Macroeconomic model", "text": "Macroeconomic model\n\nA macroeconomic model is an analytical tool designed to describe the operation of the economy of a country or a region. These models are usually designed to examine the dynamics of aggregate quantities such as the total amount of goods and services produced, total income earned, the level of employment of productive resources, and the level of prices.\n\nMacroeconomic models may be logical, mathematical, and/or computational; the different types of macroeconomic models serve different purposes and have different advantages and disadvantages.. Macroeconomic models may be used to clarify and illustrate basic theoretical principles; they may be used to test, compare, and quantify different macroeconomic theories; they may be used to produce \"what if\" scenarios (usually to predict the effects of changes in monetary, fiscal, or other macroeconomic policies); and they may be used to generate economic forecasts. Thus, macroeconomic models are widely used in academia, teaching and research, and are also widely used by international organizations, national governments and larger corporations, as well as by economics consultants and think tanks.\n\nSimple textbook descriptions of the macroeconomy involving a small number of equations or diagrams are often called ‘models’. Examples include the IS-LM model and Mundell–Fleming model of Keynesian macroeconomics, and the Solow model of neoclassical growth theory. These models share several features. They are based on a few equations involving a few variables, which can often be explained with simple diagrams. Many of these models are static, but some are dynamic, describing the economy over many time periods. The variables that appear in these models often represent macroeconomic aggregates (such as GDP or total employment) rather than individual choice variables, and while the equations relating these variables are intended to describe economic decisions, they are not usually derived directly by aggregating models of individual choices. They are simple enough to be used as illustrations of theoretical points in introductory explanations of macroeconomic ideas; but therefore quantitative application to forecasting, testing, or policy evaluation is usually impossible without substantially augmenting the structure of the model.\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, as governments began accumulating national income and product accounting data, economists set out to construct quantitative models to describe the dynamics observed in the data. These models estimated the relations between different macroeconomic variables using (mostly linear) time series analysis. Like the simpler theoretical models, these empirical models described relations between aggregate quantities, but many addressed a much finer level of detail (for example, studying the relations between output, employment, investment, and other variables in many different industries). Thus, these models grew to include hundreds or thousands of equations describing the evolution of hundreds or thousands of prices and quantities over time, making computers essential for their solution. While the choice of which variables to include in each equation was partly guided by economic theory (for example, including past income as a determinant of consumption, as suggested by the theory of adaptive expectations), variable inclusion was mostly determined on purely empirical grounds.\n\nDutch economist Jan Tinbergen developed the first comprehensive national model, which he built for the Netherlands in 1936. He later applied the same modeling structure to the economies of the United States and the United Kingdom. The first global macroeconomic model, Wharton Econometric Forecasting Associates' LINK project, was initiated by Lawrence Klein. The model was cited in 1980 when Klein, like Tinbergen before him, won the Nobel Prize. Large-scale empirical models of this type, including the Wharton model, are still in use today, especially for forecasting purposes.\n\nEconometric studies in the first part of the 20th century showed a negative correlation between inflation and unemployment called the Phillips curve. Empirical macroeconomic forecasting models, being based on roughly the same data, had similar implications: they suggested that unemployment could be permanently lowered by permanently increasing inflation. However, in 1968, Milton Friedman and Edmund Phelps argued that this apparent tradeoff was illusory. They claimed that the historical relation between inflation and unemployment was due to the fact that past inflationary episodes had been largely unexpected. They argued that if monetary authorities permanently raised the inflation rate, workers and firms would eventually come to understand this, at which point the economy would return to its previous, higher level of unemployment, but now with higher inflation too. The stagflation of the 1970s appeared to bear out their prediction.\n\nIn 1976, Robert Lucas, Jr., published an influential paper arguing that the failure of the Phillips curve in the 1970s was just one example of a general problem with empirical forecasting models. He pointed out that such models are derived from observed relationships between various macroeconomic quantities over time, and that these relations differ depending on what macroeconomic policy regime is in place. In the context of the Phillips curve, this means that the relation between inflation and unemployment observed in an economy where inflation has usually been low in the past would differ from the relation observed in an economy where inflation has been high. Furthermore, this means one cannot predict the effects of a new policy regime using an empirical forecasting model based on data from previous periods when that policy regime was not in place. Lucas argued that economists would remain unable to predict the effects of new policies unless they built models based on economic fundamentals (like preferences, technology, and budget constraints) that should be unaffected by policy changes.\n\nPartly as a response to the Lucas critique, economists of the 1980s and 1990s began to construct microfounded macroeconomic models based on rational choice, which have come to be called dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) models. These models begin by specifying the set of agents active in the economy, such as households, firms, and governments in one or more countries, as well as the preferences, technology, and budget constraint of each one. Each agent is assumed to make an optimal choice, taking into account prices and the strategies of other agents, both in the current period and in the future. Summing up the decisions of the different types of agents, it is possible to find the prices that equate supply with demand in every market. Thus these models embody a type of equilibrium self-consistency: agents choose optimally given the prices, while prices must be consistent with agents’ supplies and demands.\n\nDSGE models often assume that all agents of a given type are identical (i.e. there is a ‘representative household’ and a ‘representative firm’) and can perform perfect calculations that forecast the future correctly on average (which is called rational expectations). However, these are only simplifying assumptions, and are not essential for the DSGE methodology; many DSGE studies aim for greater realism by considering heterogeneous agents or various types of adaptive expectations. Compared with empirical forecasting models, DSGE models typically have fewer variables and equations, mainly because DSGE models are harder to solve, even with the help of computers. Simple theoretical DSGE models, involving only a few variables, have been used to analyze the forces that drive business cycles; this empirical work has given rise to two main competing frameworks called the real business cycle model and the New Keynesian DSGE model. More elaborate DSGE models are used to predict the effects of changes in economic policy and evaluate their impact on social welfare. However, economic forecasting is still largely based on more traditional empirical models, which are still widely believed to achieve greater accuracy in predicting the impact of economic disturbances over time.\n\nA closely related methodology that pre-dates DSGE modeling is computable general equilibrium (CGE) modeling. Like DSGE models, CGE models are often microfounded on assumptions about preferences, technology, and budget constraints. However, CGE models focus mostly on long-run relationships, making them most suited to studying the long-run impact of permanent policies like the tax system or the openness of the economy to international trade. DSGE models instead emphasize the dynamics of the economy over time (often at a quarterly frequency), making them suited for studying business cycles and the cyclical effects of monetary and fiscal policy.\n\nAnother modeling methodology which has developed at the same time as DSGE models is Agent-based computational economics (ACE), which is a variety of Agent-based modeling. Like the DSGE methodology, ACE seeks to break down aggregate macroeconomic relationships into microeconomic decisions of individual agents. ACE models also begin by defining the set of agents that make up the economy, and specify the types of interactions individual agents can have with each other or with the market as a whole. Instead of defining the preferences of those agents, ACE models often jump directly to specifying their strategies. Or sometimes, preferences are specified, together with an initial strategy and a learning rule whereby the strategy is adjusted according to its past success. Given these strategies, the interaction of large numbers of individual agents (who may be very heterogeneous) can be simulated on a computer, and then the aggregate, macroeconomic relationships that arise from those individual actions can be studied.\n\nDSGE and ACE models have different advantages and disadvantages due to their different underlying structures. DSGE models may exaggerate individual rationality and foresight, and understate the importance of heterogeneity, since the rational expectations, representative agent case remains the simplest and thus the most common type of DSGE model to solve. Also, unlike ACE models, it may be difficult to study local interactions between individual agents in DSGE models, which instead focus mostly on the way agents interact through aggregate prices. On the other hand, ACE models may exaggerate errors in individual decision-making, since the strategies assumed in ACE models may be very far from optimal choices unless the modeler is very careful. A related issue is that ACE models which start from strategies instead of preferences may remain vulnerable to the Lucas critique: a changed policy regime should generally give rise to changed strategies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3437245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3437245", "title": "Malthusian growth model", "text": "Malthusian growth model\n\nA Malthusian growth model, sometimes called a simple exponential growth model, is essentially exponential growth based on the idea of the function being proportional to the speed to which the function grows. The model is named after Thomas Robert Malthus, who wrote \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\" (1798), one of the earliest and most influential books on population.\n\nMalthusian models have the following form:\nwhere\n\n\nThe model can also been written in the form of a differential equation:\n\ndP/dt = rP\n\nwith initial condition:\nP(0)= P\n\nThis model is often referred to as the \"exponential law\". It is widely regarded in the field of population ecology as the first principle of population dynamics, with Malthus as the founder. The exponential law is therefore also sometimes referred to as the \"Malthusian Law\". By now, it is a widely accepted view to analogize Malthusian growth in Ecology to Newton's First Law of uniform motion in physics.\n\nMalthus wrote that all life forms, including humans, have a propensity to exponential population growth when resources are abundant but that actual growth is limited by available resources:\nA model of population growth bounded by resource limitations was developed by Pierre Francois Verhulst in 1838, after he had read Malthus' essay. Verhulst named the model a logistic function.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6964765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6964765", "title": "Metatheatre", "text": "Metatheatre\n\nMetatheatre, and the closely related term metadrama, describes the aspects of a play that draw attention to its nature as drama or theatre, or to the circumstances of its performance.\n\nThese may include: the direct address of the audience (especially in soliloquies, asides, prologues, and epilogues); expression of an awareness of the presence of the audience (whether they are addressed directly or not); an acknowledgement of the fact that the people performing are actors (and not actually the characters they are playing); an element whose meaning depends on the difference between the represented time and place of the drama (the fictional world) and the time and place of its theatrical presentation (the reality of the theatre event); plays-within-plays (or masques, spectacles, or other forms of performance within the drama); references to acting, theatre, dramatic writing, spectatorship, and the frequently employed metaphor according to which \"all the world's a stage\" (\"Theatrum mundi\"); scenes involving eavesdropping or other situations in which one or several characters observe another or others, such that the former relate to the behaviour of the latter as if it were a staged performance for their benefit.\n\nThe words \"metatheatre\" and \"metadrama\" combine theatre or drama with the Greek prefix \"meta—\", which implies \"a level beyond\" the subject that it qualifies.\n\nMetatheatre has in modern times involved into the term \"meta acting\", usually in reference to movies, whereas the character gives an indication that he realizes he is in a movie, also called \"breaking the fourth wall.\"\n\nMetatheatricality has been a dimension of drama ever since its invention in the theatre of classical Greece 2,500 years ago. One major purpose of this metatheatricality was to keep then spectators away from utter involvement or belief in the development of the plot presented. Ancient Greek comedy in particular made frequent use of it (though examples can also be found in tragedy).\n\nIn early modern English theatre, characters often adopt a downstage position in close contact with the audience and comment on the actions of others sarcastically or critically, while the other actors assume the convention that the first remains unheard and unseen while so doing. Following the work of Robert Weimann and others, theatre studies uses the terms \"locus\" and \"platea\" (relating to \"location\" and \"place\", borrowed from medieval theatre) to describe this performance effect—the \"locus\" is localised within the drama such that its characters are absorbed in its fiction and unaware of the presence of the audience; while the \"platea\" is a neutral space in close contact with the spectators that exists on the boundary between the fiction and the audience's reality.\n\nWhen the defeated Cleopatra, performed by a boy player in act five of Shakespeare's \"Antony and Cleopatra\", fears her humiliation in the theatres of Rome in plays staged to ridicule her, she says: \"And I shall see some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness in the posture of a whore\". While the actor is not necessarily engaged at this point in the direct address of the audience, the reality of the male performer beneath the female character is openly, and comically, acknowledged (qualifying in important ways, supported further in the scene and the play as a whole, the tragic act of her imminent suicide). Metatheatricality of this kind is found in most plays of that period.\n\nIn \"Hamlet\", there occurs the following exchange between Hamlet and Polonius:\n\nIf the only significance of this exchange lay in its reference to characters within another play, it might be called a metadramatic (or \"intertextual\") moment. Within its original performance context, however, there is a more specific, metatheatrical reference. Historians assume that Hamlet and Polonius were played by the same actors who had played the roles mentioned in Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\" a year or two earlier on the same stage. Apart from the dramatic linking of the character of Hamlet with the murderer Brutus (foreshadowing Hamlet's murder of Polonius later in the play), the audience's awareness of the identities of the actors and their previous roles is comically referenced.\n\nIn the modern era, the rise of realism and naturalism led to the development of a performance convention known as the \"fourth wall\". The metaphor suggests a relationship to the mise-en-scène behind a proscenium arch. When a scene is set indoors and three of the walls of its room are presented onstage, the \"fourth\" of them would run along the line dividing the room from the auditorium (technically called the \"proscenium\"). The fourth wall is thus an invisible, imagined wall that separates the actors from the audience. While the audience can see through this \"wall\", the convention assumes, the actors act as if they cannot. In this sense, the \"fourth wall\" is a convention of acting, rather than of set design. It can be created regardless of the presence of any actual walls in the set, or the physical arrangement of the theatre building or performance space, or the actors' distance from or proximity to the audience.\n\n\"Breaking the fourth wall\" is any instance in which this performance convention, having been adopted more generally in the drama, is disregarded. The temporary suspension of the convention in this way draws attention to its use in the rest of the performance. This act of drawing attention to a play's performance conventions is metatheatrical.\n\nA similar effect of metareference is achieved when the performance convention of avoiding direct contact with the camera, generally used by actors in a television drama or film, is temporarily suspended. The phrase \"breaking the fourth wall\" is used to describe such effects in those media.\n\nInstances of metatheatricality \"other\" than \"breaking the fourth wall\" occur in plays by many of the realist playwrights, including Henrik Ibsen, August Strindberg, and Anton Chekhov. As with modernism more generally, metareference in the form of metatheatricality comes to play a far more central and significant role in the modernist theatre, particularly in the work of Bertolt Brecht, Vsevolod Meyerhold, Luigi Pirandello, Thornton Wilder, Samuel Beckett, and many others.\n\nIn more recent times, \"With the People from the Bridge\" by Dimitris Lyacos employs metatheatrical techniques whereby a makeshift play centered on the vampire legend is viewed from the angle of a spectator who records in his diary the setting and preparations as well as the sequence of the actors' soliloquies interspersed with personal notes on the development of the performance.\n\nThe term \"metatheatre\" was coined by Lionel Abel in 1963 and has since entered common critical usage. Abel described metatheatre as reflecting comedy and tragedy, at the same time, where the audience can laugh at the protagonist while feeling empathetic simultaneously. Abel relates it to the character of Don Quixote, whom he considers to be the prototypical, metatheatrical, self-referring character. Don Quixote looks for situations of which he wants to be a part, not waiting for life to oblige, but replacing reality with imagination when the world is lacking in his desires. The character is aware of his own theatricality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19102057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19102057", "title": "Moscow Bureau for Human Rights", "text": "Moscow Bureau for Human Rights\n\nThe Moscow Bureau for Human Rights () is Russian human rights monitoring non-governmental organization, which is headed by Alexander Brod.\n\nThe Bureau publishes monitoring materials of the violation of human rights in Russia, carries out educational programs, holds press-conferences. The Bureau won a European Commission grant to conduct project \"Public Campaign to Combat Racism, Xenophobia, Anti-Semitism, and Ethnic Discrimination in the Multinational Russian Federation\".\n\nThe Public Council of the Bureau includes Alla Gerber, Leonid Zhukhovitsky, Alexander Rekemchuk, Mark Rozovsky.\n\n"}
{"id": "14847900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14847900", "title": "Multiple time dimensions", "text": "Multiple time dimensions\n\nThe possibility that there might be more than one dimension of time has occasionally been discussed in physics and philosophy.\n\nSpecial relativity describes spacetime as a manifold whose metric tensor has a negative eigenvalue. This corresponds to the existence of a \"time-like\" direction. A metric with multiple negative eigenvalues would correspondingly imply \"several\" timelike directions, i.e. multiple time dimensions, but there is no consensus regarding the relationship of these extra \"times\" to time as conventionally understood.\n\nIf the special theory of relativity can be generalized for the case of \"k\"-dimensional time (\"t\", \"t\", ..., \"t\") and \"n\"-dimensional space (\"x\", \"x\", ..., \"x\"), then the (\"k\" + \"n\")-dimensional interval, being invariant, is given by the expression\n\nThe metric signature will be\n\nor\n\nThe transformations between the two inertial frames of reference \"K\" and \"K\"′, which are in a standard configuration (i.e., transformations without translations and/or rotations of the space axis in the hyperplane of space and/or rotations of the time axis in the hyperplane of time), are given as follows:\n\nwhere\nformula_6\nformula_7\nformula_8\nare the vectors of the velocities of \"K\"′ against \"K\", defined accordingly in relation to the time dimensions \"t\", \"t\", ..., \"t\";\nformula_9\nformula_10\n\"σ\" = 1, 2, ..., \"k\"; \"λ\" = \"k\"+2, \"k\"+3, ..., \"k\"+\"n\". Here \"δ\" is the Kronecker delta. These transformations are generalization of the Lorentz boost in a fixed space direction (\"x\") in the field of the multidimensional time and multidimensional space.\nLet us denote\nformula_11 and\nformula_12\nwhere \"σ\" = 1, 2, ..., \"k\"; \"η\" = \"k\"+1, \"k\"+2, ..., \"k\"+\"n\". The velocity-addition formula is then given by\n\nwhere \"σ\" = 1, 2, ..., \"k\"; \"λ\" = \"k\"+2, \"k\"+3, ..., \"k\"+\"n\".\n\nFor simplicity, let us consider only one spatial dimension \"x\" and the two time dimensions \"x\" and \"x\". (E. g., \"x\" = \"ct\", \"x\" = \"ct\", \"x\" = \"x\".) Let us assume that in point \"O\", having coordinates \"x\" = 0, \"x\" = 0, \"x\" = 0, there has been an event \"E\". Let us further assume that a given interval of time formula_15 has passed since the event \"E\". The causal region connected to the event \"E\" includes the lateral surface of the right circular cone {(\"x\") + (\"x\") − (\"x\") = 0}, the lateral surface of the right circular cylinder {(\"x\") + (\"x\") = \"c\"Δ\"T\"} and the inner region bounded by these surfaces, i.e., the causal region includes all points (\"x\", \"x\", \"x\"), for which the conditions\n\nare fulfilled.\n\nTheories with more than one dimension of time have sometimes been advanced in physics, whether as a serious description of reality or just as a curious possibility. Itzhak Bars's work on \"two-time physics\", inspired by the SO(10,2) symmetry of the extended supersymmetry structure of M-theory, is the most recent and systematic development of the concept (see also F-theory). Walter Craig and Steven Weinstein proved the existence of a well-posed initial value problem for the ultrahyperbolic equation (a wave equation in more than one time dimension). This showed that initial data on a mixed (spacelike and timelike) hypersurface obeying a particular nonlocal constraint evolves deterministically in the remaining time dimension.\n\nLet us regard the motion of a test particle with coordinate\n\nformula_16\n\nwhich is the canonical (1,3) spacetime vector formula_17 with formula_18 extended by an additional timelike coordinate formula_19. formula_20 is the second time parameter, formula_21 describes the size of the second time dimension and formula_22 is the characteristic velocity, thus the equivalent of formula_23. formula_24 describes the shape of the second time dimension and formula_25 is a normalization parameter such that formula_26 is dimensionless. Decomposing formula_27 with \n\nformula_28\n\nand using the metric formula_29, the Lagrangian becomes\n\nformula_30\n\nApplying the Euler-Lagrange Equations\n\nformula_31\n\nthe existence of the Planck length and the constancy of the speed of light can be derived.\n\nAs a consequence of this model it has been suggested that the speed of light may not have been constant in the early universe.\n\nConceptual difficulties with multiple physical time dimensions have been raised in modern analytic philosophy.\n\nAs a solution to the problem of the subjective passage of time, J. W. Dunne proposed an infinite hierarchy of time dimensions, inhabited by a similar hierarchy of levels of consciousness. Dunne suggested that, in the context of a \"block\" spacetime as modelled by General Relativity, a second dimension of time was needed in order to measure the speed of one's progress along one's own timeline. This in turn required a level of the conscious self existing at the second level of time. But the same arguments then applied to this new level, requiring a third level, and so on in an infinite regress. At the end of the regress was a \"superlative general observer\" who existed in eternity. He published his theory in relation to precognitive dreams in his 1927 book \"An Experiment with Time\" and went on to explore its relevance to contemporary physics in \"The Serial Universe\" (1934). His infinite regress was criticised as logically flawed and unnecessary, although writers such as J. B. Priestley acknowledged the possibility of his second time dimension.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13675678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675678", "title": "Noema", "text": "Noema\n\nNoema (plural: \"noemata\") derives from the Greek word νόημα meaning \"thought\" or \"what is thought about.\" Edmund Husserl used \"noema\" as a technical term in phenomenology to stand for the object or content of a thought, judgement, or perception, but its precise meaning in his work has remained a matter of controversy.\n\nIn \"\" (1913), Husserl introduced the terms \"noema\" and \"noesis\" to designate correlated elements of the structure of any intentional act — for example, an act of perceiving, or judging, or remembering:\n\n\"Corresponding to all points to the manifold data of the real (\"reelle\") noetic content, there is a variety of data displayable in really pure (\"wirklicher reiner\") intuition, and in a correlative 'noematic content,' or briefly 'noema' — terms which we shall henceforth be continually using.\"\n\nEvery intentional act has noetic content (or a noesis — from the Greek nous, \"mind\"). This noetic content, to which the noema corresponds, is that mental act-process (e.g., an act of liking, of judging, of meaning, etc.) which becomes directed towards the intentionally held object (e.g., the liked as liked, judged as judged, or meant as meant). That is to say, every act has, as part of its formation, a noematic correlate, which is the object of the act — that which is intended by it. In other words, every intentional act has an \"I-pole (the origin of the noesis)\" and an \"object-pole (or noema).\" Husserl also refers to the noema as the \"Sinn\" or sense (meaning) of the act, and sometimes appears to use the terms interchangeably. Nevertheless, the \"Sinn\" does not represent what Husserl calls the \"full noema\": \"Sinn\" belongs to the noema, but the full noema is the object of the act \"as meant\" in the act, the perceived object \"as\" perceived, the judged object \"as\" judged, and so on.\n\nIn other words, the noema seems to be whatever is intended by acts of perception or judgement in general, whether it be \"a material object, a picture, a word, a mathematical entity, another person\" precisely \"as\" being perceived, judged or otherwise thought about.\n\nIn fact, commentators have been unable to achieve consensus on exactly what a noema is. In a recent survey, David Woodruff Smith distinguished four different schools of thought. On one view, to say that the noema is the intentional object of an act of consciousness is to mean that it quite literally is an object. Husserl’s student Roman Ingarden, for example, held that both ordinary objects, like chairs and trees, and intentional objects, like a chair precisely as it appears to me, or even a fictional tree, actually exist, but have different \"modes\" of existence.\n\nAn alternative view, developed primarily by Aron Gurwitsch, emphasizes the noema of perceptual experience. Most ordinary objects can be perceived in different ways and from different perspectives (consider looking at a tree from several different positions). For Gurwitsch, what is perceived in each such act is a noema, and the object itself – the tree, say – is to be understood as the collection or system of noemata associated with it. This view has similarities with phenomenalism.\n\nSokolowski, alternatively, holds that a noema is just the actual object of perception or judgment itself, considered phenomenologically. In other words, the noema of the judgment that “this chair is uncomfortable” is neither an entity (the chair considered as uncomfortable) which exists in addition to the chair itself (but with a different mode of existence) – the Ingarden view; nor is the noema of such a judgment identified with a particular tactile perception of the chair – which along with other perceptions constitutes the chair as such – the Gurwitsch view. For Sokolowski, the noema is not a separate entity at all, but the chair itself \"as\" in this instance perceived or judged. This seems consistent with Husserl’s emphasis on the noema as the \"perceived as such…remembered as such…judged as such…\"\n\nAnalytic philosopher Dagfinn Føllesdal, in an influential 1969 paper, proposed a Fregean interpretation of the noema, which has been developed extensively by Ronald McIntyre and David Woodruff Smith. This school of thought agrees that the noema is not a separate entity, but rather than identifying it with the actual object of the act (of perceiving, judging, etc.), phenomenologically understood, this view suggests that it is a mediating component of the act itself. It is what gives the act the sense it has. Indeed, Føllesdal and his followers suggest that the noema is a generalized version of Frege’s account of linguistic meaning, and in particular of his concept of sense (\"Sinn\"). Just as Frege held that a linguistic expression picks out its reference by means of its sense, so Husserl believed that conscious acts generally – not merely acts of meaning but also acts of perception, judgment, etc. – are intentionally directed toward objects by means of their noemata. On this view, the noema is not an object, but an abstract component of certain types of acts.\n\nSokolowski has continued to reject this approach, arguing that \"(t)o equate sense and noema would be to equate propositional and phenomenological reflection. It would take philosophy simply as the critical reflection on our meanings or senses; it would equate philosophy with linguistic analysis.\" Robert C. Solomon attempted to reconcile the perception-based interpretation of the Gurwitsch school with the Fregean interpretation of noema as sense, suggesting that while \"(i)t has now become virtually axiomatic among phenomenologists that the \"Sinne\" [senses] of experience stand independent of the \"Bedeutungen\" [meanings] of linguistic expressions. It has become all but axiomatic among analytic philosophers that there is no meaning apart from language. It is the concept of the noema that provides the link between them. The noema embodies both the changing phases of experience and the organizing sense of our experience. But these two 'components' are not separable, for all experience requires meaning, not as an after-the-fact luxury in reflective judgements but in order for it to be experience \"of\" anything.”\n\n\"Noema\" is in the \"OED\", which has shown its use for more than three centuries. It first was used in English in the field of rhetoric to denote \"a figure of speech whereby something stated obscurely is nevertheless intended to be understood or worked out.\" In other words, a \"noema\" in rhetoric is obscure speech or speech that only yields meaning upon detailed reflection.\n\nPeacham's 1577 \"Garden of Eloquence\" used it this way, \n\"Noema, when we doe signify some thing so privily that the hearers must be fayne to seeke out the meaning by long consideration.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2620502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2620502", "title": "Norwegian units of measurement", "text": "Norwegian units of measurement\n\nAs in the case of the Danes the Norwegians' earliest standards of measure can be derived from their ship burials. The was built ca. 700 AD and differs from the Danish boats less than it does from the Oseberg, Gokstad and Tune ships which all date from ca. 800 AD. Thwarts are typically spaced about 3 feet apart.\n\nIn 1541, an \"alen\" in Denmark and Norway was defined by law to be the Sjælland \"alen\". Subsequently, the \"alen\" was defined by law as 2 Rhine feet from 1683. From 1824, the basic unit was defined as a \"fot\" being derived from astronomy as the length of a one-second pendulum times 12/38 at a latitude of 45°. The metric system was introduced in 1887.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35054352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35054352", "title": "Polygraph (mathematics)", "text": "Polygraph (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, and particularly in category theory, a polygraph is a generalisation of a directed graph. It is also known as a computad. They were introduced as \"polygraphs\" by Albert Burroni and as \"computads\" by Ross Street.\n\nIn the same way that a directed multigraph can freely generate a category, an \"n\"-computad is the \"most general\" structure which can generate a free n-category.\n"}
{"id": "50354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50354", "title": "Precautionary principle", "text": "Precautionary principle\n\nThe precautionary principle (or precautionary approach) generally defines actions on issues considered to be uncertain, for instance applied in assessing risk management. The principle is used by policy makers to justify discretionary decisions in situations where there is the possibility of harm from making a certain decision (e.g. taking a particular course of action) when extensive scientific knowledge on the matter is lacking. The principle implies that there is a social responsibility to protect the public from exposure to harm, when scientific investigation has found a plausible risk. These protections can be relaxed only if further scientific findings emerge that provide sound evidence that no harm will result.\n\nIn some legal systems, as in law of the European Union, the application of the precautionary principle has been made a statutory requirement in some areas of law.\n\nRegarding international conduct, the first endorsement of the principle was in 1982 when the World Charter for Nature was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly, while its first international implementation was in 1987 through the Montreal Protocol. Soon after, the principle integrated with many other legally binding international treaties such as the Rio Declaration and Kyoto Protocol.\n\nThe concept \"precautionary principle\" is generally considered to have arisen in English from a translation of the German term \"\" in the 1980s. In 1988, Konrad von Moltke described the German concept for a British audience, which he translated into English as the precautionary principle.\n\nThe concepts underpinning the precautionary principle pre-date the term's inception. For example, the essence of the principle is captured in a number of cautionary aphorisms such as \"an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure\", \"better safe than sorry\", and \"look before you leap\". The precautionary principle may also be interpreted as the evolution of the \"ancient-medical principle\" of \"first, do no harm\" to apply to institutions and institutional decision-making processes rather than individuals.\n\nIn economics, the Precautionary Principle has been analysed in terms of \"the effect on rational decision-making\", of \"the interaction of irreversibility\" and \"uncertainty\". Authors such as Epstein (1980) and Arrow and Fischer (1974) show that \"irreversibility of possible future consequences\" creates a \"quasi-option effect\" which should induce a \"risk-neutral\" society to favour current decisions that allow for more flexibility in the future. Gollier et al. (2000) conclude that \"more scientific uncertainty as to the distribution of a future risk – that is, a larger variability of beliefs – should induce society to take stronger prevention measures today\" p245.\n\nMany definitions of the precautionary principle exist: Precaution may be defined as \"caution in advance\", \"caution practised in the context of uncertainty\", or informed prudence. Two ideas lie at the core of the principle:\n\n\nOne of the primary foundations of the precautionary principle, and globally accepted definitions, results from the work of the Rio Conference, or \"Earth Summit\" in 1992. The principle 15 of the Rio Declaration notes: \"In order to protect the environment, the precautionary approach shall be widely applied by States according to their capabilities. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.\"\n\nThe 1998 Wingspread Statement on the Precautionary Principle summarises the principle this way: \"When an activity raises threats of harm to human health or the environment, precautionary measures should be taken even if some cause and effect relationships are not fully established scientifically.\" The Wingspread Conference on the Precautionary Principle was convened by the Science and Environmental Health Network.\n\nIn February 2000, the Commission of the European Communities noted in a \"Communication from the Commission on the Precautionary Principle\" that, \"The precautionary principle is not defined in the Treaties of the European Union, which prescribes it [the Precautionary Principle] only once – to protect the environment. But in practice, its scope is much wider, and specifically where preliminary-objective-scientific-evaluation indicates that there are reasonable grounds for concern that potentially dangerous effects on the environment, human, animal or [and] plant health may be inconsistent with the high level of protection [for what] chosen for the Community.\"\n\nThe January 2000 Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety says, in regard to controversies over GMOs: \"Lack of scientific certainty due to insufficient relevant scientific information ... shall not prevent the Party of [I]mport, in order to avoid or minimize such potential adverse effects, from taking a decision, as appropriate, with regard to the import of the living modified organism in question.\"\n\nThe application of the precautionary principle is hampered by both lack of political will, as well as the wide range of interpretations placed on it. One study identified 14 different formulations of the principle in treaties and nontreaty declarations. R.B. Stewart (2002) reduced the precautionary principle to four basic versions:\n\n\nIn deciding how to apply the principle, one may use a cost-benefit analysis that factors in both the opportunity cost of not acting, and the option value of waiting for further information before acting. One of the difficulties of the application of the principle in modern policy-making is that there is often an irreducible conflict between different interests, so that the debate necessarily involves politics.\n\n\"Strong precaution\" holds that regulation is required whenever there is a possible risk to health, safety, or the environment, even if the supporting evidence is speculative and even if the economic costs of regulation are high. In 1982, the United Nations World Charter for Nature gave the first international recognition to the strong version of the principle, suggesting that when \"potential adverse effects are not fully understood, the activities should not proceed\". The widely publicised Wingspread Declaration, from a meeting of environmentalists in 1998, is another example of the strong version. Strong precaution can also be termed as a \"no-regrets\" principle, where costs are not considered in preventative action.\n\n\"Weak precaution\" holds that lack of scientific evidence does not preclude action if damage would otherwise be serious and irreversible. Humans practice weak precaution every day, and often incur costs, to avoid hazards that are far from certain: we do not walk in moderately dangerous areas at night, we exercise, we buy smoke detectors, we buckle our seatbelts.\n\nAccording to a publication by the New Zealand Treasury Department,\n\nThe World Charter for Nature, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1982, was the first international endorsement of the precautionary principle. The principle was implemented in an international treaty as early as the 1987 Montreal Protocol, and among other international treaties and declarations is reflected in the 1992 Rio Declaration on Environment and Development (signed at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development).\n\nNo introduction to the precautionary principle would be complete without brief reference to the difference between the precautionary principle and the precautionary approach. Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration 1992 states that: \"in order to protect the environment, the precautionary approach shall be widely applied by States according to their capabilities. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall be not used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.\" As Garcia (1995) pointed out, \"the wording, largely similar to that of the principle, is subtly different in that: (1) it recognizes that there may be differences in local capabilities to apply the approach, and (2) it calls for cost-effectiveness in applying the approach, e.g., taking economic and social costs into account.\" The 'approach' is generally considered a softening of the 'principle'.\n\n\"As Recuerda has noted, the distinction between the 'precautionary principle' and a 'precautionary approach' is diffuse and, in some contexts, controversial. In the negotiations of international declarations, the United States has opposed the use of the term 'principle' because this term has special connotations in legal language, due to the fact that a 'principle of law` is a source of law. This means that it is compulsory, so a court can quash or confirm a decision through the application of the precautionary principle. In this sense, the precautionary principle is not a simple idea or a desideratum but a source of law. This is the legal status of the precautionary principle in the European Union. On the other hand, an 'approach' usually does not have the same meaning, although in some particular cases an approach could be binding. A precautionary approach is a particular 'lens' used to identify risk that every prudent person possesses (Recuerda, 2008)\n\nOn 2 February 2000, the European Commission issued a Communication on the precautionary principle, in which it adopted a procedure for the application of this concept, but without giving a detailed definition of it. Paragraph 2 of article 191 of the Lisbon Treaty states that\n\n\"Union policy on the environment shall aim at a high level of protection taking into account the diversity of situations in the various regions of the Union. It shall be based on the precautionary principle and on the principles that preventive action should be taken, that environmental damage should as a priority be rectified at source and that the polluter should pay.\"\n\nAfter the adoption of the European Commission's Communication on the precautionary principle, the principle has come to inform much EU policy, including areas beyond environmental policy. As of 2006 it had been integrated into EU laws \"in matters such as general product safety, the use of additives for use in animal nutrition, the incineration of waste, and the regulation of genetically modified organisms\". Through its application in case law, it has become a \"general principle of EU law\".\n\nIn Case T-74/00 \"Artegodan\", the General Court (then Court of First Instance) appeared willing to extrapolate from the limited provision for the precautionary principle in environmental policy in Article 191(2) TFEU to a general principle of EU law.\n\nIn France, the Charter for the Environment contains a formulation of the precautionary principle (article 5):\nOn 18 July 2005, the City of San Francisco passed a Precautionary Principle Purchasing ordinance, which requires the city to weigh the environmental and health costs of its $600 million in annual purchases – for everything from cleaning supplies to computers. Members of the Bay Area Working Group on the Precautionary Principle including the Breast Cancer Fund, helped bring this to fruition.\n\nIn 1997, Japan tried to use the consideration of the precautionary principle in a WTO SPS Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures case, as Japan's requirement to test each variety of agricultural products (apples, cherries, peaches, walnuts, apricots, pears, plums and quinces) for the efficacy of treatment against codling moths was challenged.\n\nThis moth is a pest that does not occur in Japan, and whose introduction has the potential to cause serious damage. The United States claimed that it was not necessary to test each variety of a fruit for the efficacy of the treatment, and that this varietal testing requirement was unnecessarily burdensome.\n\nThe most important Australian court case so far, due to its exceptionally detailed consideration of the precautionary principle, is Telstra Corporation Limited v Hornsby Shire Council.\n\nThe Principle was summarised by reference to the NSW \"Protection of the Environment Administration Act 1991\", which itself provides a good definition of the principle:\n\n\"If there are threats of serious or irreversible environmental damage, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reasoning for postponing measures to prevent environmental degradation. In the application of the principle… decisions should be guided by:\n(i) careful evaluation to avoid, wherever practicable, serious or irreversible damage to the environment; and\n(ii) an assessment of risk-weighted consequence of various options\".\n\nThe most significant points of Justice Preston's decision are the following findings:\n\nA petition filed 17 May 2013 by environmental group Greenpeace Southeast Asia and farmer-scientist coalition Masipag (\"Magsasaka at Siyentipiko sa Pagpapaunlad ng Agrikultura\") asked the Appellate court to stop the planting of Bt eggplant in test fields, saying the impacts of such an undertaking to the environment, native crops and human health are still unknown. The Court of Appeals granted the petition, citing the precautionary principle stating \"when human activities may lead to threats of serious and irreversible damage to the environment that is scientifically plausible but uncertain, actions shall be taken to avoid or diminish the threat.\"\nRespondents filed a motion for reconsideration in June 2013 and on 20 September 2013 the Court of Appeals chose to uphold their May decision saying the \"bt talong\" field trials violate the people's constitutional right to a \"balanced and healthful ecology.\" The Supreme Court on 8 December 2015 permanently stopped the field testing for Bt (Bacillus thuringiensis) talong (eggplant), upholding the decision of the Court of Appeals which stopped the field trials for the genetically modified eggplant. The court is the first in the world to adopt the precautionary principle regarding GMO products in its decision.\n\nThe Body Shop International, a UK-based cosmetics company, included the precautionary principle in their 2006 Chemicals Strategy.\n\nFields typically concerned by the precautionary principle are the possibility of:\n\nThe precautionary principle is often applied to biological fields because changes cannot be easily contained and have the potential of being global. The principle has less relevance to contained fields such as aeronautics, where the few people undergoing risk have given informed consent (e.g., a test pilot). In the case of technological innovation, containment of impact tends to be more difficult if that technology can self-replicate. Bill Joy emphasised the dangers of replicating genetic technology, nanotechnology, and robotic technology in his article in \"Wired\", \"Why the future doesn't need us\", though he does not specifically cite the precautionary principle. The application of the principle can be seen in the public policy of requiring pharmaceutical companies to carry out clinical trials to show that new medications are safe.\n\nOxford based philosopher Nick Bostrom discusses the idea of a future powerful superintelligence, and the risks that we/it face should it attempt to gain atomic level control of matter.\n\nApplication of the principle modifies the status of innovation and risk assessment: it is not the risk that must be avoided or amended, but a potential risk that must be prevented. Thus, in the case of regulation of scientific research, there is a third party beyond the scientist and the regulator: the consumer.\n\nIn an analysis concerning application of the precautionary principle to nanotechnology, Chris Phoenix and Mike Treder posit that there are \"two forms\" of the principle, which they call the \"strict form\" and the \"active form\". The former \"requires inaction when action might pose a risk\", while the latter means \"choosing less risky alternatives when they are available, and [...] taking responsibility for potential risks.\" Thomas Alured Faunce has argued for stronger application of the precautionary principle by chemical and health technology regulators particularly in relation to Ti0 and ZnO nanoparticles in sunscreens, biocidal nanosilver in waterways and products whose manufacture, handling or recycling exposes humans to the risk of inhaling multi-walled carbon nanotubes.\n\nSeveral natural resources like fish stocks are now managed by precautionary approach, through Harvest Control Rules (HCR) based upon the precautionary principle. The figure indicates how the principle is implemented in the cod fisheries management proposed by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea.\n\nIn classifying endangered species, the precautionary principle means that if there is doubt about an animal's or plant's exact , the one that would cause the strongest protective measures to be realised should be chosen. Thus, a species like the silvery pigeon that might exist in considerable numbers and simply be under-recorded or might just as probably be long extinct is not classified as \"data deficient\" or \"extinct\" (which both do not require any protective action to be taken), but as \"critically endangered\" (the conservation status that confers the need for the strongest protection), whereas the increasingly rare, but probably not yet endangered emerald starling is classified as \"data deficient\", because there is urgent need for research to clarify its status rather than for conservation action to save it from extinction.\n\nIf, for example, a large ground-water body that people use for drinking water is contaminated by bacteria (e-coli 0157 H7, campylobacter or leptospirosis) and the source of contamination is strongly suspected to be dairy cows but the exact science is not yet able to provide absolute proof, the cows should be removed from the environment until they are proved, by the dairy industry, not to be the source or until that industry ensures that such contamination will not recur.\n\nCritics of the principle use arguments similar to those against other formulations of technological conservatism.\n\nStrong formulations of the precautionary principle, without regard to its most basic provisions that it is to be applied only where risks are potentially high AND not easily calculable, applied to the principle itself as a policy decision, may rule out its own use. The reason suggested is that preventing innovation from coming to market means that only current technology may be used, and current technology itself may cause harm or leave needs unmet; there is a risk of causing harm by blocking innovation. As Michael Crichton wrote in his novel \"State of Fear\": \"The 'precautionary principle', properly applied, forbids the precautionary principle.\" For example, forbidding nuclear power plants based on concerns about risk means continuing to rely on power plants that burn fossil fuels, which continue to release greenhouse gases. In another example, the Hazardous Air Pollutant provisions in the 1990 amendments to the US Clean Air Act are an example of the Precautionary Principle where the onus is now on showing a listed compound is harmless. Under this rule no distinction is made between those air Pollutants that provide a higher or lower risk, so operators tend to choose less-examined agents that are not on the existing list.\n\nBecause applications of strong formulations of the precautionary principle can be used to block innovation, a technology which brings advantages may be banned by precautionary principle because of its potential for negative impacts, leaving the positive benefits unrealised.\n\nThe precautionary principle has been ethically questioned on the basis that its application could block progress in developing countries.\n\nThe precautionary principle calls for action in the face of scientific uncertainty, but some formulations do not specify the minimal threshold of plausibility of risk that acts as a \"triggering\" condition, so that any indication that a proposed product or activity might harm health or the environment is sufficient to invoke the principle. In \"Sancho vs. DOE\", Helen Gillmor, Senior District Judge, wrote in a dismissal of Wagner's lawsuit which included a popular worry that the LHC could cause \"destruction of the earth\" by a black hole:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23706", "title": "Primitive notion", "text": "Primitive notion\n\nIn mathematics, logic, and formal systems, a primitive notion is an undefined concept. In particular, a primitive notion is not defined in terms of previously defined concepts, but is only motivated informally, usually by an appeal to intuition and everyday experience. In an axiomatic theory or other formal system, the role of a primitive notion is analogous to that of axiom. In axiomatic theories, the primitive notions are sometimes said to be \"defined\" by one or more axioms, but this can be misleading. Formal theories cannot dispense with primitive notions, under pain of infinite regress.\n\nAlfred Tarski explained the role of primitive notions as follows:\n\nAn inevitable regress to primitive notions in the theory of knowledge was explained by Gilbert de B. Robinson:\n\nThe necessity for primitive notions is illustrated in several axiomatic foundations in mathematics:\n\n"}
{"id": "2227485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2227485", "title": "Recursive data type", "text": "Recursive data type\n\nIn computer programming languages, a recursive data type (also known as a recursively-defined, inductively-defined or inductive data type) is a data type for values that may contain other values of the same type. Data of recursive types are usually viewed as directed graphs.\n\nAn important application of recursion in computer science is in defining dynamic data structures such as Lists and Trees. Recursive data structures can dynamically grow to an arbitrarily large size in response to runtime requirements; in contrast, a static array's size requirements must be set at compile time.\n\nSometimes the term \"inductive data type\" is used for algebraic data types which are not necessarily recursive.\n\nAn example is the list type, in Haskell:\n\nThis indicates that a list of a's is either an empty list or a cons cell containing an 'a' (the \"head\" of the list) and another list (the \"tail\").\n\nAnother example is a similar singly linked type in Java:\n\nThis indicates that non-empty list of type E contains a data member of type E, and a reference to another List object for the rest of the list (or a null reference to indicate that this is the end of the list).\n\nData types can also be defined by mutual recursion. The most important basic example of this is a tree, which can be defined mutually recursively in terms of a forest (a list of trees). Symbolically:\nA forest \"f\" consists of a list of trees, while a tree \"t\" consists of a pair of a value \"v\" and a forest \"f\" (its children). This definition is elegant and easy to work with abstractly (such as when proving theorems about properties of trees), as it expresses a tree in simple terms: a list of one type, and a pair of two types.\n\nThis mutually recursive definition can be converted to a singly recursive definition by inlining the definition of a forest:\nA tree \"t\" consists of a pair of a value \"v\" and a list of trees (its children). This definition is more compact, but somewhat messier: a tree consists of a pair of one type and a list another, which require disentangling to prove results about.\n\nIn Standard ML, the tree and forest data types can be mutually recursively defined as follows, allowing empty trees:\nIn type theory, a recursive type has the general form μα.T where the type variable α may appear in the type T and stands for the entire type itself.\n\nFor example, the natural numbers (see Peano arithmetic) may be defined by the Haskell datatype:\n\nIn type theory, we would say: formula_1 where the two arms of the sum type represent the Zero and Succ data constructors. Zero takes no arguments (thus represented by the unit type) and Succ takes another Nat (thus another element of formula_2).\n\nThere are two forms of recursive types: the so-called isorecursive types, and equirecursive types. The two forms differ in how terms of a recursive type are introduced and eliminated.\n\nWith isorecursive types, the recursive type formula_3 and its expansion (or \"unrolling\") formula_4 (Where the notationformula_5 indicates that all instances of Z are replaced with Y in X) are distinct (and disjoint) types with special term constructs, usually called \"roll\" and \"unroll\", that form an isomorphism between them. To be precise: formula_6 and formula_7, and these two are inverse functions.\n\nUnder equirecursive rules, a recursive type formula_3 and its unrolling formula_9 are \"equal\" -- that is, those two type expressions are understood to denote the same type. In fact, most theories of equirecursive types go further and essentially stipulate that any two type expressions with the same \"infinite expansion\" are equivalent. As a result of these rules, equirecursive types contribute significantly more complexity to a type system than isorecursive types do. Algorithmic problems such as type checking and type inference are more difficult for equirecursive types as well. Since direct comparison does not make sense on an equirecursive type, they can be converted into a canonical form in O(n log n) time, which can easily be compared.\n\nEquirecursive types capture the form of self-referential (or mutually referential) type definitions seen in procedural and object-oriented programming languages, and also arise in type-theoretic semantics of objects and classes.\nIn functional programming languages, isorecursive types (in the guise of datatypes) are far more common.\n\nRecursion is not allowed in type synonyms in Miranda, OCaml (unless -rectypes flag is used or it's a record or variant), and Haskell; so for example the following Haskell types are illegal:\n\nInstead, you must wrap it inside an algebraic data type (even if it only has one constructor):\n\nThis is because type synonyms, like typedefs in C, are replaced with their definition at compile time. (Type synonyms are not \"real\" types; they are just \"aliases\" for convenience of the programmer.) But if you try to do this with a recursive type, it will loop infinitely because no matter how many times you substitute it, it still refers to itself, e.g. \"Bad\" will grow indefinitely: (Int, (Int, (Int, ... .\n\nAnother way to see it is that a level of indirection (the algebraic data type) is required to allow the isorecursive type system to figure out when to \"roll\" and \"unroll\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58423249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58423249", "title": "Refill (scheme)", "text": "Refill (scheme)\n\nRefill is a nationwide scheme providing a network of points offering the public free tap water in the UK. The network comprises high street retailers, cafes, restaurants, other businesses, museums, and local authorities. The scheme aims to prevent waste created by single-use plastic water bottles, as well as increasing the availability of quality drinking water.\n\nThe idea for Refill came from Natalie Fee, who set up the community interest company City to Sea in order to launch Refill in Bristol in 2015. City to Sea continues to organise it along with sponsor Water UK.\n\nPeople can either use a dedicated smartphone app to find Refill points, or look for signs outside participating organisations.\n\nAs of March 2018 there were 5700 Refill points and it continues to be developed.\n\nAll establishments of Neal's Yard Remedies, Costa Coffee, Premier Inn, Starbucks and Pret a Manger are participating.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3168948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3168948", "title": "Santa Claus machine", "text": "Santa Claus machine\n\nA Santa Claus machine, named after the folkloric Santa Claus, is a hypothetical machine that is capable of creating any required object or structure out of any given material. It is most often referenced by futurists and science fiction writers when discussing hypothetical projects of enormous scale, such as a Dyson sphere. These types of future constructions would be too large for many civilizations to build directly, so they would need a series of machines to intelligently build the machine with little or no direct control.\n\nThe term was coined by Theodore Taylor in 1978:\n\nIt's possible to imagine a machine that could scoop up material – rocks from the Moon or rocks from asteroids – process them inside and produce just about any product: washing machines or teacups or automobiles or starships. Once such a machine exists it could gather sunlight and materials that it's sitting on, and produce on call whatever product anybody wants to name, as long as somebody knows how to make it and those instructions can be given to the machine. \n\nA mature Santa Claus machine requires significant advances in technology to be possible, including the ability to take any collection of matter and reconfigure it into any other type of matter.\n\nScientifically, it requires two parts: a disassembler and an assembler.\n\nOne form of disassembler would consist of an ionizing chamber, which heats the input matter to 43,000 °F (24,000 °C). Once all the molecular bonds are broken and the electrons ripped off, each atomic nucleus would be moved through a magnetic field, where its path would curve in proportion to its charge/mass ratio, as per mass spectrometry. The separated ions would be captured by a linear array of cold traps to provide reservoirs of each element.\n\nThe assembler would use these reservoirs as input to some kind of additive layer manufacturing device (also known as 3D printers and rapid prototype machines). Many of these printers are commercially available today—though currently few can print with more than one highly prepared material (much less an alphabet consisting of all the raw elements).\n\nAn autonomous Santa Claus machine would presumably require a high level of artificial intelligence, though for small projects, autonomous behavior is probably not necessary. However, the \"matter compiler\" (that figures out which atom goes where) must be programmed appropriately—not a trivial task. A gigantic project such as a Dyson sphere would undoubtedly require not only autonomy, but also self-replication. These capabilities would enable a single Santa Claus machine, given sufficient matter and energy, to construct a project of any size.\n\nMany theorists have seen the obvious nightmare scenarios that accompany such a device, including machines running out of control and destroying an entire planet, or a clanking replicator disaster, \"à la\" the brooms in \"The Sorcerer's Apprentice\". At the other extreme, others suppose the resultant post scarcity economy could lead to a near-utopia—\"Star Trek\" being the most culturally prominent example of this possibility.\n\nThe human society seen as a whole can be thought of as a limited Santa Claus machine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34757793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34757793", "title": "Self-concealment", "text": "Self-concealment\n\nSelf-concealment (SC) is a psychological construct defined as \"a predisposition to actively conceal from others personal information that one perceives as distressing or negative\". Self-concealment can be understood as an instance of boundary regulation in the maintenance of privacy. Self-concealed personal information has three characteristics: it is a subset of private information, can be consciously accessed, and is actively concealed from others. The concealed personal information (thoughts, feelings, actions, or events) is highly intimate and negative in valence (p. 440). Self-concealment has been shown to be both conceptually and empirically distinct from self-disclosure.\n\nSecrets and secret keeping have been a longstanding interest of psychologists and psychotherapists. Jourard's work on self-disclosure and Pennebaker's research on the health benefits of disclosing traumatic events and secrets set the stage for the conceptualization and measurement of self-concealment. Jourard's research pointed to the conclusion that stress and illness result not only from low self-disclosure, but more so from the intentional avoidance of being known by another person. In a later line of research, Pennebaker and his colleagues examined the confiding-illness relation or the inhibition-disease link and found that not expressing thoughts and feelings about traumatic events is associated with long-term health effects. Pennebaker attributed the unwillingness to disclose distressing personal information to either circumstances or individual differences. The self-concealment construct, and the scale for its measurement, the Self-Concealment Scale, were introduced to permit assessment and conceptualization of individual differences on this personality dimension.\n\nThe 10-item Self-Concealment Scale (SCS) measures the degree to which a person tends to conceal personal information perceived as negative or distressing. The SCS has proven to have excellent psychometric properties (internal consistency and test-retest reliability) and unidimensionality. Representative items include: \"I have an important secret that I haven't shared with anyone\", \"There are lots of things about me that I keep to myself\", \"Some of my secrets have really tormented me\", \"When something bad happens to me, I tend to keep it to myself\", and \"My secrets are too embarrassing to share with others\".\n\nThe initial study of self-concealment by Larson and Chastain found that self-concealment uniquely and significantly contributed to the prediction of anxiety, depression, and physical symptoms even after controlling for trauma incidence, trauma distress, trauma disclosure, social support and social network strength, and self-disclosure. Subsequent research has examined the effects of self-concealment on subjective well-being and coping, finding that high self-concealment is associated with psychological distress and self-reported physical symptoms, anxiety and depression anxiety, depression, shyness, and negative self-esteem, loneliness, rumination, anxiety, trait social anxiety, social anxiety, depression, and self-silencing, ambivalence over emotional expressiveness, maladaptive mood regulation, and acute and chronic pain.\n\nTheoretical models offered to explain the consistent finding of negative health effects for self-concealment include:\n\nKelly offers a comprehensive review of several explanatory models and the evidence supporting each of them, concluding that a genetic component shared by high self-concealers might make them both more prone to self-conceal and more vulnerable to physical and psychological problems.\n\nResearch studies have focused on the relation of self-concealment to attachment orientations, help seeking and attitudes toward counseling, desire for greater (physical) interpersonal distance, stigma, distress disclosure, lying behavior and authenticity, and psychotherapy process.\n\nResearch also focuses on self-concealment in specific populations: LGBT, multicultural, and adolescents, families, and romantic partners.\n\nA recent review of 137 studies using the Self-Concealment Scale presented a working model for the antecedents of self-concealment and the mechanisms of action for its health effects. The authors conceptualize self-concealment as a \"complex trait-like motivational construct where high levels of SC motivation energize a range of goal-directed behaviors (e.g., keeping secrets, behavioral avoidance, lying) and dysfunctional strategies for the regulation of emotions (e.g., expressive suppression) which serve to conceal negative or distressing personal information.\" These mechanisms are seen as then affecting health through direct and indirect pathways, and as being \"energized by a conflict between urges to conceal, and reveal—a dual-motive conflict which eventually leads to adverse physiological effects and a breakdown of self-regulatory resources\".\n\nSexual minorities employ self concealment strategies to manage the risk of shame and stigma. \n\nLesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) people are stigmatized for the same-sex attraction inherent to their sexual identities. Coming out is a stigmatizing process for LGB populations because they have to manage risk of humiliation, rejection, and violence. For gay people, coming out and staying in the closet are contentious decisions that can have social consequences. If a person does not disclose that they are gay, they risk the censure of some political progressives, including some of those in their own community, for being cowardly, politically irresponsible, or 'self-hating' if their identity is discovered at a later time.\n\nArab and Middle Eastern people have been documented employing the following identity negotiation strategies:\n\n\nSelf-concealment strategies can also present in those with sexual paraphilias. Research in the experiences of furries, a stigmatized group, found that they are more likely to self disclose if there are little difference in power between the furry and the individual with whom they are disclosing their identity to.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34192047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34192047", "title": "Speedy trial", "text": "Speedy trial\n\nThe right to a speedy trial is a human right under which it is asserted that a government prosecutor may not delay the trial of a criminal suspect arbitrarily and indefinitely. Otherwise, the power to impose such delays would effectively allow prosecutors to send anyone to jail for an arbitrary length of time without trial.\n\nAlthough it is important for the protection of speedy trial rights that there be a court in which a defendant may complain about the unreasonable delay of the trial, it is also important that nations implement structures that avoid the delay.\n\nIn jurisdictions with strong rule of law, the requirement of a \"speedy trial\" forces prosecutors to diligently build cases within a reasonable amount of time commensurate with the complexity and heinousness of the crimes of which suspects are accused. The right is based on the notion that long-term incarceration should normally be restricted to situations in which a judge or jury have determined a suspect has committed a crime.\n\nThe right to a speedy trial is codified in fundamental legal documents in several jurisdictions, and may be further defined by statutory law.\n\nSpeedy trial rights are recognized within Section Eleven of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.\n\nWithin Europe, speedy trial rights are recognized by Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nIn English law, this right was developed by the Assize of Clarendon in 1166 (a judge would be summoned if one was not immediately available) and Magna Carta in 1215 (\"To no one will we sell, to no one will we refuse or delay, right or justice.\").\n\nThe Constitution of the Philippines states, \"All persons shall have the right to a speedy disposition of their cases before all judicial, quasi-judicial, or administrative bodies.\"\n\nIn the United States, basic speedy trial rights are protected by the Speedy Trial Clause of the United States Constitution. States may also offer additional speedy trial protections. In June 1776, a \"speedy trial\" provision was explicitly included in the Virginia Declaration of Rights by George Mason, its principal author.\n\nThe consequences of a speedy trial violation may require that the case be dismissed, although depending upon the circumstances it may be possible for the state to again initiate a criminal charge against a defendant despite a speedy trial violation.\n\n"}
{"id": "45602053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45602053", "title": "Syneisaktism", "text": "Syneisaktism\n\nSyneisaktism is the practice of \"spiritual marriage\", which is where a man and a woman who have both taken vows of chastity live together in a chaste and non-legalized partnership. More often than not, the woman would move into the house of the man, and they would live as brother and sister, both committed to the continuation of their vows of chastity. The women who entered into a spiritual marriage were known as \"subintroductae\" (\"those brought in covertly\"), \"agapetae\" (\"beloved ones\"), and \"syneisaktoi\" (\"those brought into the house together\"). This practice emerged around the 2nd century CE, and survived into the Middle Ages, despite being condemned by numerous church leaders, writers, and councils.\n\nThe practice of asceticism grew in the early years of Christianity due to the teachings of both Paul the Apostle and Jesus Christ, who suggested that a celibate life was the best way to prepare for life in the Kingdom of God. It may have also emerged as an alternative to martyrdom, so that the faithful could reach the Kingdom of Heaven and receive their rewards in the afterlife without giving their lives. It became more and more popular as Christianity became accepted and legalized in the Roman Empire and martyrdoms became less frequent. Virginity became a favoured alternative to earthly marriage, promoted by writers such as Eusebius of Emesa and Jerome, all of whom saw marriage as promoting evil, quarrels, and the road to sin and suffering. Virginity emerged as a popular practice for women around the 2nd century CE, although it became more fully developed during the next couple of centuries, and it became \"constructed as a form of liberation not only from the strictures of marriage and childbearing, but also from physical passion and materiality\", which were considered sinful and dangerous to the soul.\n\nOne issue that many ascetic virgins, especially women, came across was how they were to live once they denounced marriage and earthly pleasures. Some independently wealthy women were able to seclude themselves on their estates, others were supported by family, but many had no means with which to support themselves. Monasteries for women were a later development; in the 2nd century CE there would have been very few in existence. Thus, spiritual marriage may have emerged as a solution to this problem. An ascetic woman would have gone to live with an ascetic man in his house, living as brother and sister in a sort of unofficial marriage. Spiritual marriages would have also offered a rare opportunity for a man and a woman to engage in an emotionally and spiritually intimate friendship, something that was next to unheard of in the ancient world, in which it was believed that men and women could never be friends, as friendship implied parity, and the sexes were not considered equal. Thus, spiritual marriages would have been a desirable option for both ascetic men and women.\n\nDespite the appeal of spiritual marriages, subintroductae and the practice itself were continuously condemned by various councils, writers, and theologians. John 20:17 was one New Testament verse that was used as evidence that spiritual marriage was not endorsed by Christ, as Jesus pushes away Mary Magdelene with the command \"touch me not\". Various other authorities and texts were used, with writers building upon earlier arguments in response to the flourishing practice.\n\nThe earliest council to condemn the virgines subintroductae and the practice of spiritual marriage was the Council of Antioch (268), and this stance was reiterated at the Synod of Elvira in 300 (Canon 27: \"a bishop or any other clergy may have living with him only a sister or a virgin daughter dedicated to God; by no means shall he keep any woman unrelated to him\".), at Ancyra in 317, and at the First Council of Nicaea in 325. Nicaea denounces spiritual marriage in its third canon, which forbids any clergy member from living with a woman unless she is a relative.\n\nDecrees against spiritual marriage and the subintroductae continued to be issued by various authorities all over Europe until the Middle Ages \n\nChurch writers and theologians also spoke out against the practice of spiritual marriage, more often than not condemning it. Those who wrote about this subject include Athanasius of Alexandria, Jerome, Eusebius of Emesa, Gregory of Nyssa, and John Chrysostom, among others.\n\nAthanasius of Alexandria was a fourth century writer who wrote two letters on the subject of virginity. The second letter is addressed to a group of virgins newly returned from a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. He gives advice on how to continue their ascetic lives properly, including a section on spiritual marriage. Here, he condemns the practice of spiritual marriage and of the subintroductae, suggesting that it is a betrayal of the Bridegroom Christ to whom all virgins devote their life to when they take their vows of chastity. He mentions those virgins who \"dare[d] even to live and mix with men, not considering such a great danger or how easy it is to fall in this life\" and goes on to call on women to abandon their practice of spiritual marriage, \"lest you break your covenant with the heavenly bridegroom\".\n\nJohn Chrysostom, another fourth-century writer, wrote two treatises on the subject of spiritual marriage, both condemning the practice. He suggests that living together chastely will only intensify lust for one another, as it is never satisfied by sexual intercourse (\"sexual desire...serves to still passion and often leads the man to satiation... But with a virgin, nothing of this sort happens...the men who live with them are stirred by a double desire\"), and that it was not spiritual love but lust that drew these couples together; like Athanasius, he sees spiritual marriage as a betrayal of Christ the Bridegroom as well. His protests also show the prevailing views of men and women that existed during this time, as his writing suggests that spiritual marriage goes against traditional views of men and women occupying separate spheres.\n"}
{"id": "14959629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14959629", "title": "Terrorist training camp", "text": "Terrorist training camp\n\nA terrorist training camp is a facility established to train individuals in the ways of terrorism, often without the consent of the trainees. By teaching them the methods and tactics of terrorism, those conducting such facilities aim to create an \"army\" of individuals who will do their bidding. They are often located in, but not confined to, regions where it is intended that acts of terrorism will be carried out, or in traditional areas of extremism, such as Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia. Wide-open spaces such as parks and wilderness areas are common sites for these camps.\n\nMost camps are located in the Middle East, with the most infamous in Syria and the Arabian peninsula. Many camps are located in regions of conflict. The call to jihad has seen many Muslims enter such camps, followed by US drone strikes.\n\nThese encampments provide recruits with weapons training, protocol training, interaction with skilled veterans, and a secure geographic location for operations. Recruits are regularly indoctrinated in the goals and beliefs of the organization. Organizational leaders attempt to isolate recruits from their outside social connections and force them to establish a new identity. This allows the organization to become the “family” of the recruit and generate loyalty to the organization’s goals.\n\nDepending on the type of organization, the religion and “strength of faith” of the recruit is often an indicator of their status within the organization. Those who are not willing to comply, even after completion of training, are often punished and undergo training to strengthen their observance. Terrorist recruits are tested on knowledge of their religion and of rival groups. Recruiters do this to verify that each recruit has the necessary beliefs, which ensures organizational unification. Religious verification ensures that each member is working towards mutual goals.\n\nRecruiters use techniques that exploit or create mental trauma in order to produce a dissociated mindset in recruits — a condition in which the identity and awareness of the recruit is reset. Typical recruits look to join terrorist organizations because they are angry, alienated and/or disenfranchised. Common thought processes include: believing that their current political involvement does not give them the power to effect change; identifying with perceived victims of the perceived social injustice they are fighting; feeling the need to take action; believing that violence is not immoral; having friends or family sympathetic to the cause; and craving social and psychological rewards such as adventure, camaraderie, and a heightened sense of identity. Internet and cyber-skills are sought after as technically knowledgeable recruits can help the organization.\n\nMany terrorist organizations train recruits in guerrilla warfare. Recruits must be in shape in order to learn these tactics. An ISIS workout video shows that cardiovascular fitness is important. Recruits often train in full uniform, with weapons in hand. Recruits need to be able to survive in their environment with little nourishment. Recruits learn that if success is not attained, they will not be rescued.\n"}
{"id": "143247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143247", "title": "The War of the Worlds (radio drama)", "text": "The War of the Worlds (radio drama)\n\n\"The War of the Worlds\" is an episode of the American radio drama anthology series \"The Mercury Theatre on the Air\" directed and narrated by actor and future filmmaker Orson Welles as an adaptation of H. G. Wells' novel \"The War of the Worlds\" (1898). It was performed and broadcast live as a Halloween episode at 8 p.m. on Sunday, October 30, 1938 over the Columbia Broadcasting System radio network. The episode became famous for causing panic among its listening audience, but the scale of that panic is disputed, as the program had relatively few listeners.\n\nThe one-hour program began with the theme music for the \"Mercury Theatre on the Air\" and an announcement that the evening's show was an adaption of \"The War of the Worlds\". This was followed by a prologue read by Orson Welles which was closely based on the opening of H.G. Wells' novel. The next half hour of the broadcast was presented as typical evening of radio programming which was interrupted by a series of news bulletins. The first few bulletins interrupt a program of dance music and describe a series of odd explosions observed on Mars. This is followed by a seemingly unrelated report of an unusual object falling on a farm in Grover's Mill, New Jersey. Another brief musical interlude is interrupted by a live report from Grover's Mill, where police officials and a crowd of curious onlookers have surrounded the strange cylindrical object. The situation quickly escalates when Martians emerge from the cylinder and attack using a heat-ray, abruptly cutting off the panicked reporter at the scene. This is followed by a rapid series of increasingly alarming news updates detailing a devastating alien invasion taking place around the world. This portion of the show climaxes with another live report describing giant Martian war machines releasing clouds of poisonous smoke in New York City, after which the program took its first break. During the second half of the show, the program shifts to a more conventional radio drama format and follows a survivor dealing with the aftermath of the invasion and Martian occupation of Earth. As in the original novel, the story ends with the discovery that the Martians have been defeated by microbes rather than by humans.\n\nThe illusion of realism was furthered because the \"Mercury Theatre on the Air\" was a sustaining show without commercial interruptions, and the first break in the program came almost 30 minutes after the introduction. Popular legend holds that some of the radio audience may have been listening to The Chase and Sanborn Hour with Edgar Bergen and tuned in to \"The War of the Worlds\" during a musical interlude, thereby missing the clear introduction that the show was a drama; however, contemporary research suggests that this happened only in rare instances.\n\nIn the days after the adaptation, widespread outrage was expressed in the media. The program's news-bulletin format was described as deceptive by some newspapers and public figures, leading to an outcry against the broadcasters and calls for regulation by the Federal Communications Commission. Nevertheless, the episode secured Welles's fame as a dramatist.\n\n\"The War of the Worlds\" was the 17th episode of the CBS Radio series \"The Mercury Theatre on the Air,\" which was broadcast at 8 pm ET on Sunday, October 30, 1938. H. G. Wells' original novel tells the story of a Martian invasion of Earth. The novel was adapted for radio by Howard Koch, who changed the primary setting from 19th-century England to the contemporary United States, with the landing point of the first Martian spacecraft changed to rural Grover's Mill, an unincorporated village in West Windsor Township, New Jersey.\n\nThe program's format was a simulated live newscast of developing events. The first two-thirds of the hour-long play is a contemporary retelling of events of the novel, presented as news bulletins interrupting programs of dance music. \"I had conceived the idea of doing a radio broadcast in such a manner that a crisis would actually seem to be happening,\" Welles later said, \"and would be broadcast in such a dramatized form as to appear to be a real event taking place at that time, rather than a mere radio play.\" This approach was similar to Ronald Knox's radio hoax \"Broadcasting the Barricades\", about a riot overtaking London, that was broadcast by the BBC in 1926, which Welles later said gave him the idea for \"The War of the Worlds\". A 1927 drama aired by Adelaide station 5CL depicted an invasion of Australia via the same techniques and inspired reactions similar to those of the Welles broadcast.\n\nHe was also influenced by the \"Columbia Workshop\" presentations \"The Fall of the City\", a 1937 radio play in which Welles played the role of an omniscient announcer, and \"Air Raid\", a vibrant as-it-happens drama starring Ray Collins that aired October 27, 1938. Welles had previously used a newscast format for \"Julius Caesar\" (September 11, 1938), with H. V. Kaltenborn providing historical commentary throughout the story.\n\n\"The War of the Worlds\" broadcast used techniques similar to those of \"The March of Time,\" the CBS news documentary and dramatization radio series. Welles was a member of the program's regular cast, having first performed on \"The March of Time\" in March 1935. \"The Mercury Theatre on the Air\" and \"The March of Time\" shared many cast members, as well as sound effects chief Ora D. Nichols.\n\nWelles discussed his fake newscast idea with producer John Houseman and associate producer Paul Stewart; together, they decided to adapt a work of science fiction. They considered adapting M. P. Shiel's \"The Purple Cloud\" and Arthur Conan Doyle's \"The Lost World\" before purchasing the radio rights to \"The War of the Worlds\". Houseman later wrote that he suspected Welles had never read it.\n\nHoward Koch had written the first drafts for the Mercury Theatre broadcasts \"Hell on Ice\" (October 9), \"Seventeen\" (October 16), and \"Around the World in 80 Days\" (October 23). Monday, October 24, he was assigned to adapt \"The War of the Worlds\" for broadcast the following Sunday night.\n\nTuesday night, 36 hours before rehearsals were to begin, Koch telephoned Houseman in what the producer characterized as \"deep distress\". Koch said he could not make \"The War of the Worlds\" interesting or credible as a radio play, a conviction echoed by his secretary Anne Froelick, a typist and aspiring writer whom Houseman had hired to assist him. With only his own abandoned script for \"Lorna Doone\" to fall back on, Houseman told Koch to continue adapting the Wells fantasy. He joined Koch and Froelick and they worked on the script throughout the night. On Wednesday night, the first draft was finished on schedule.\n\nOn Thursday, associate producer Paul Stewart held a cast reading of the script, with Koch and Houseman making necessary changes. That afternoon, Stewart made an acetate recording, with no music or sound effects. Welles, immersed in rehearsing the Mercury stage production of \"Danton's Death\" scheduled to open the following week, played the record at an editorial meeting that night in his suite at the St. Regis Hotel. After hearing \"Air Raid\" on the \"Columbia Workshop\" earlier that same evening, Welles viewed the script as dull. He stressed the importance of inserting news flashes and eyewitness accounts into the script to create a sense of urgency and excitement.\n\nHouseman, Koch, and Stewart reworked the script that night, increasing the number of news bulletins and using the names of real places and people whenever possible. Friday afternoon, the script was sent to Davidson Taylor, executive producer for CBS, and the network legal department. Their response was that the script was 'too' credible and its realism had to be toned down. As using the names of actual institutions could be actionable, CBS insisted upon some 28 changes in phrasing.\n\n\"Under protest and with a deep sense of grievance we changed the Hotel Biltmore to a nonexistent \"Park Plaza\", \"Transamerica Radio News\" to \"Inter-Continental Radio News\", the \"Columbia Broadcasting Building\" to \"Broadcasting Building\",\" Houseman wrote. \"The United States Weather Bureau in Washington, D.C.\" was changed to \"The Government Weather Bureau,\" \"Princeton University Observatory\" to \"Princeton Observatory,\" \"McGill University\" in Montreal to \"Macmillan University\" in Toronto, \"New Jersey National Guard\" to \"State Militia,\" \"United States Signal Corps\" to \"Signal Corps,\" \"Langley Field\" to \"Langham Field,\" and \"St. Patrick's Cathedral\" to \"the cathedral.\"\n\nOn Saturday, Stewart rehearsed the show with the sound effects team, giving special attention to crowd scenes, the echo of cannon fire, and the sound of the boat horns in New York Harbor.\n\nEarly Sunday afternoon, Bernard Herrmann and his orchestra arrived in the studio, where Welles had taken over production of that evening's program.\n\nTo create the role of reporter Carl Phillips, actor Frank Readick went to the record library and played the recording of Herbert Morrison's radio report of the \"Hindenburg\" disaster over and over. Working with Bernard Herrmann and the orchestra that had to sound like a dance band fell to Paul Stewart, the person Welles would later credit as being largely responsible for the quality of \"The War of the Worlds\" broadcast.\n\nWelles wanted the music to play for unbearably long stretches of time. The studio's emergency fill-in, a solo piano playing Debussy and Chopin, was heard several times. \"As it played on and on,\" Houseman wrote, \"its effect became increasingly sinister—a thin band of suspense stretched almost beyond endurance. That piano was the neatest trick of the show.\"\n\nDress rehearsal was scheduled for 6 pm.\n\n\"Our actual broadcasting time, from the first mention of the meteorites to the fall of New York City, was less than forty minutes,\" wrote Houseman. \"During that time, men travelled long distances, large bodies of troops were mobilized, cabinet meetings were held, savage battles fought on land and in the air. And millions of people accepted it—emotionally if not logically.\"\n\nThe cast of characters of \"The War of the Worlds\" appears in order as first heard in the broadcast.\n\n\"The War of the Worlds\" begins with a paraphrase of , updated to contemporary times. The announcer introduces Orson Welles:\n\nWe know now that in the early years of the 20th century, this world was being watched closely by intelligences greater than man's and yet as mortal as his own. We know now that as human beings busied themselves about their various concerns, they were scrutinized and studied, perhaps almost as narrowly as a man with a microscope might scrutinize the transient creatures that swarm and multiply in a drop of water. With infinite complacence, people went to and fro over the earth about their little affairs, serene in the assurance of their dominion over this small spinning fragment of solar driftwood which by chance or design man has inherited out of the dark mystery of Time and Space. Yet across an immense ethereal gulf, minds that are to our minds as ours are to the beasts in the jungle, intellects vast, cool and unsympathetic, regarded this earth with envious eyes and slowly and surely drew their plans against us. In the 39th year of the 20th century came the great disillusionment. It was near the end of October. Business was better. The war scare was over. More men were back at work. Sales were picking up. On this particular evening, October 30th, the Crossley service estimated that 32 million people were listening in on radios…\n\nThe radio program begins as a simulation of a normal evening radio broadcast featuring a weather report and music by \"Ramon Raquello and His Orchestra\" live from a local hotel ballroom. After a few minutes, the music begins to be interrupted by several news flashes about strange gas explosions on Mars. An interview is arranged with reporter Carl Phillips and Princeton-based Professor of Astronomy Richard Pierson, who dismisses speculation about life on Mars. The musical program returns temporarily but is interrupted again by news of a strange meteorite landing in Grover's Mill, New Jersey. Phillips and Pierson are dispatched to the site, where a large crowd has gathered. Philips describes the chaotic atmosphere around the strange cylindrical object, and Pierson admits that he does not know exactly what it is, but that it seems to be made of an extraterrestrial metal. The cylinder unscrews, and Phillips describes the tentacled, horrific \"monster\" that emerges from inside. Police officers approach the Martian waving a flag of truce, but the invaders respond by firing a heat ray, which incinerates the delegation and ignites the nearby woods and cars as the crowd screams. Phillips's shouts about incoming flames are cut off mid-sentence, and after a moment of dead air, an announcer explains that the remote broadcast was interrupted due to \"some difficulty with our field transmission.\"\n\nAfter a brief \"piano interlude\", regular programming breaks down as the studio struggles with casualty and fire-fighting updates. A shaken Pierson speculates about Martian technology. The New Jersey state militia declares martial law and attacks the cylinder; a captain from their field headquarters lectures about the overwhelming force of properly-equipped infantry and the helplessness of the Martians, until a tripod rises from the pit. The tripod obliterates the militia, and the studio returns, now describing the Martians as an invading army. Emergency response bulletins give way to damage and evacuation reports as thousands of refugees clog the highways. Three Martian tripods from the cylinder destroy power stations and uproot bridges and railroads, reinforced by three others from a second cylinder that landed in the Great Swamp near Morristown, as gas explosions continue. The Secretary of the Interior addresses the nation.\n\nA live connection is established to a field artillery battery in the Watchung Mountains. Its gun crew damages a machine, resulting in a release of poisonous black smoke, before fading into the sound of coughing. The lead plane of a wing of bombers from Langham Field broadcasts its approach and remains on the air as their engines are burned by the heat ray and the plane dives on the invaders. Radio operators go active and fall silent. Although the bombers manage to destroy one machine, the remaining five are spreading black smoke across the Jersey Marshes into Newark.\n\nEventually, a news reporter, broadcasting from atop the Broadcasting Building, describes the Martian invasion of New York City – \"five great machines\" wading the Hudson \"like [men] wading through a brook\", black smoke drifting over the city, people diving into the East River \"like rats\", others in Times Square \"falling like flies\". He reads a final bulletin stating that Martian cylinders have fallen all over the country, then describes the smoke approaching down the street until he has a coughing fit and falls silent, leaving only the sounds of the city under attack in the background. Finally, a ham radio operator is heard calling, \"2X2L calling CQ, New York. Isn't there anyone on the air? Isn't there anyone on the air? Isn't there... anyone?\"\n\nAfter a period of silence comes the voice of announcer Dan Seymour:\n\nYou are listening to a CBS presentation of Orson Welles and the \"Mercury Theatre of the Air\", in an original dramatization of \"The War of the Worlds\" by H. G. Wells. The performance will continue after a brief intermission.\n\nThe last third of the program is a monologue and dialogue. Professor Pierson, having survived the attack on Grover's Mill, attempts to make contact with other humans. In Newark, he encounters an opportunistic militiaman who holds fascist ideals in regards to man's relationship with the Martians, and intends to use Martian weaponry to take control of both species. Declaring that he wants no part of \"his world\", Pierson leaves the stranger with his delusions. His journey takes him to the ruins of New York, where he discovers that the Martians have died – as with the novel, they fell victim to earthly pathogenic germs, to which they had no immunity. Life eventually returns to normal, and Pierson finishes writing his recollections of the invasion and its aftermath.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the play, Welles reassumed his role as host and told listeners that the broadcast was a Halloween concoction: the equivalent, he says, \"of dressing up in a sheet, jumping out of a bush and saying, 'Boo!'\" Popular mythology holds the disclaimer was hastily added to the broadcast at the insistence of CBS executives, as they became aware of panic inspired by the program. In fact, at the station break, network executive Davidson Taylor had attempted to prevent Welles, who had added the speech at the last minute, from reading it on air for fear of allowing the network to legal liability, but Welles delivered it anyway.\n\nRadio programming charts in Sunday newspapers listed the CBS drama, \"The War of the Worlds\". \"The New York Times\" for October 30, 1938, also included the show in its \"Leading Events of the Week\" (\"Tonight – Play: H. G. Wells' 'War of the Worlds'\") and published a photograph of Welles with some of the Mercury players, captioned, \"Tonight's show is H. G. Wells' 'War of the Worlds'\".\n\nAnnouncements that \"The War of the Worlds\" is a dramatization of a work of fiction were made on the full CBS network at four points during the broadcast October 30, 1938: at the beginning, before the middle break, after the middle break, and at the end. The middle break was delayed 10 minutes to accommodate the dramatic content.\n\nAnother announcement was repeated on the full CBS network that same evening at 10:30 pm, 11:30 pm, and midnight: \"For those listeners who tuned in to Orson Welles's \"Mercury Theatre on the Air\" broadcast from 8 to 9 pm Eastern Standard Time tonight and did not realize that the program was merely a modernized adaptation of H. G. Wells' famous novel \"War of the Worlds\", we are repeating the fact which was made clear four times on the program, that, while the names of some American cities were used, as in all novels and dramatizations, the entire story and all of its incidents were fictitious.\"\n\n\"In the first place, most people didn't hear the show.\"<br>- Frank Stanton, research director, CBS Radio Network and Radio Research Project\n\nProducer John Houseman noticed that at about 8:32 pm. ET, CBS supervisor Davidson Taylor received a telephone call in the control room. Creasing his lips, Taylor left the studio and returned four minutes later, \"pale as death\", as he had been ordered to interrupt \"The War of the Worlds\" broadcast immediately with an announcement of the program's fictional content. However, by the time the order was given, the program was already less than a minute away from its first scheduled break, and the fictional news reporter played by actor Ray Collins was choking on poison gas as the Martians overwhelmed New York.\n\nActor Stefan Schnabel recalled sitting in the anteroom after finishing his on-air performance. \"A few policemen trickled in, then a few more. Soon, the room was full of policemen and a massive struggle was going on between the police, page boys, and CBS executives, who were trying to prevent the cops from busting in and stopping the show. It was a show to witness.\"\n\nDuring the signoff theme, the phone began ringing. Houseman picked it up and the furious caller announced he was mayor of a Midwestern town, where mobs were in the streets. Houseman hung up quickly: \"For we were off the air now and the studio door had burst open.\"\n\nThe following hours were a nightmare. The building was suddenly full of people and dark-blue uniforms. Hustled out of the studio, we were locked into a small back office on another floor. Here we sat incommunicado while network employees were busily collecting, destroying, or locking up all scripts and records of the broadcast. Finally, the Press was let loose upon us, ravening for horror. How many deaths had \"we\" heard of? (Implying they knew of thousands.) What did \"we\" know of the fatal stampede in a Jersey hall? (Implying it was one of many.) What traffic deaths? (The ditches must be choked with corpses.) The suicides? (Haven't you heard about the one on Riverside Drive?) It is all quite vague in my memory and quite terrible.\n\nPaul White, head of CBS News, was quickly summoned to the office, \"and there bedlam reigned\", he wrote:\n\nThe telephone switchboard, a vast sea of light, could handle only a fraction of incoming calls. The haggard Welles sat alone and despondent. \"I'm through,\" he lamented, \"washed up.\" I didn't bother to reply to this highly inaccurate self-appraisal. I was too busy writing explanations to put on the air, reassuring the audience that it was safe. I also answered my share of incessant telephone calls, many of them from as far away as the Pacific Coast.\n\nBecause of the crowd of newspaper reporters, photographers, and police, the cast left the CBS building by the rear entrance. Aware of the sensation the broadcast had made, but not its extent, Welles went to the Mercury Theatre where an all-night rehearsal of \"Danton's Death\" was in progress. Shortly after midnight, one of the cast, a late arrival, told Welles that news about \"The War of the Worlds\" was being flashed in Times Square. They immediately left the theatre, and standing on the corner of Broadway and 42nd Street, they read the lighted bulletin that circled the \"New York Times\" building: ORSON WELLES CAUSES PANIC.\n\nSome listeners heard only a portion of the broadcast and, in the tension and anxiety prior to World War II, mistook it for a genuine news broadcast. Thousands of those people rushed to share the false reports with others or called CBS, newspapers, or the police to ask if the broadcast was real. Many newspapers assumed that the large number of phone calls and the scattered reports of listeners rushing about or even fleeing their homes proved the existence of a mass panic, but such behavior was never widespread.\n\nFuture \"Tonight Show\" host Jack Paar had announcing duties that night for Cleveland CBS affiliate WGAR. As panicked listeners called the studio, Paar attempted to calm them on the phone and on air by saying: \"The world is not coming to an end. Trust me. When have I ever lied to you?\" When the listeners started charging Paar with \"covering up the truth\", he called WGAR's station manager for help. Oblivious to the situation, the manager advised Paar to calm down and said that it was \"all a tempest in a teapot\".\n\nIn a 1975 interview with radio historian Chuck Schaden, radio actor Alan Reed recalled being one of several actors recruited to answer phone calls at CBS's New York headquarters.\n\nIn Concrete, Washington, phone lines and electricity suffered a short circuit at the Superior Portland Cement Company's substation. Residents were unable to call neighbors, family, or friends to calm their fears. Reporters who heard of the coincidental blackout sent the story over the newswire, and soon, Concrete was known worldwide.\n\nWelles continued with the rehearsal of \"Danton's Death\" (scheduled to open November 2), leaving shortly after dawn October 31. He was operating on three hours of sleep when CBS called him to a press conference. He read a statement that was later printed in newspapers nationwide and took questions from reporters:\n\nIn its editions of October 31, 1938, the \"Tucson Citizen\" reported that three Arizona affiliates of CBS (KOY in Phoenix, KTUC in Tucson and KSUN in Bisbee) had originally scheduled a delayed broadcast of \"The War of the Worlds\" that night; CBS had shifted \"The Mercury Theater on the Air\" from Monday nights to Sunday nights on September 11, but the three affiliates preferred to keep the series in its original Monday slot so that it would not compete with NBC's top-rated \"Chase and Sanborn Hour\". However, late on that Sunday night, CBS contacted KOY and KTUC owner Burridge Butler and instructed him not to air the program the following night.\n\nWithin three weeks, newspapers had published at least 12,500 articles about the broadcast and its impact, but the story dropped from the front pages after a few days. Adolf Hitler referenced the broadcast in a speech in Munich on November 8, 1938. Welles later remarked that Hitler cited the effect of the broadcast on the American public as evidence of \"the corrupt condition and decadent state of affairs in democracy\".\n\nBob Sanders recalled looking outside the window and seeing a traffic jam in the normally quiet Grover's Mill, New Jersey, a crossroads of Cranbury and Clarksville Roads.\n\nLater studies indicate that many missed the repeated notices about the broadcast being fictional, partly because \"The Mercury Theatre on the Air\", an unsponsored CBS cultural program with a relatively small audience, ran at the same time as the NBC Red Network's popular \"Chase and Sanborn Hour\" featuring ventriloquist Edgar Bergen. At the time, many Americans assumed that a significant number of \"Chase and Sanborn\" listeners changed stations when the first comic sketch ended and a musical number by Nelson Eddy began and then tuned in \"The War of the Worlds\" after the opening announcements, but historian A. Brad Schwartz, after studying hundreds of letters from people who heard \"The War of the Worlds\", as well as contemporary audience surveys, concluded that very few people frightened by Welles's broadcast had tuned out Bergen's program. \"All the hard evidence suggests that \"The Chase & Sanborn Hour\" was only a minor contributing factor to the Martian hysteria,\" he wrote. \"...in truth, there was no mass exodus from Charlie McCarthy to Orson Welles that night.\" Because the broadcast was unsponsored, Welles and company could schedule breaks at will, rather than arranging them around advertisements. As a result, the only notices that the broadcast was fictional came at the start of the broadcast and about 40 and 55 minutes into it.\n\nA study by the Radio Project discovered that fewer than one third of frightened listeners understood the invaders to be aliens; most thought that they were listening to reports of a German invasion or of a natural catastrophe. \"People were on edge\", wrote Welles biographer Frank Brady. \"For the entire month prior to 'The War of the Worlds', radio had kept the American public alert to the ominous happenings throughout the world. The Munich crisis was at its height... For the first time in history, the public could tune into their radios every night and hear, boot by boot, accusation by accusation, threat by threat, the rumblings that seemed inevitably leading to a world war.\"\n\nCBS News chief Paul White wrote that he was convinced that the panic induced by the broadcast was a result of the public suspense generated before the Munich Pact. \"Radio listeners had had their emotions played upon for days... Thus they believed the Welles production even though it was specifically stated that the whole thing was fiction\".\n\n\"The supposed panic was so tiny as to be practically immeasurable on the night of the broadcast. ... Radio had siphoned off advertising revenue from print during the Depression, badly damaging the newspaper industry. So the papers seized the opportunity presented by Welles’ program to discredit radio as a source of news. The newspaper industry sensationalized the panic to prove to advertisers, and regulators, that radio management was irresponsible and not to be trusted.\"\n\nHistorical research suggests the panic was far less widespread than newspapers had indicated at the time. \"[T]he panic and mass hysteria so readily associated with 'The War of the Worlds' did not occur on anything approaching a nationwide dimension\", American University media historian W. Joseph Campbell wrote in 2003. He quotes Robert E. Bartholomew, an authority on mass panic outbreaks, as having said that \"there is a growing consensus among sociologists that the extent of the panic... was greatly exaggerated\".\n\nThat position is supported by contemporary accounts. \"In the first place, most people didn't hear [the show],\" said Frank Stanton, later president of CBS. Of the nearly 2,000 letters mailed to Welles and the Federal Communications Commission after \"The War of the Worlds,\" currently held by the University of Michigan and the National Archives and Records Administration, roughly 27% came from frightened listeners or people who witnessed any panic. After analyzing those letters, A. Brad Schwartz concluded that although the broadcast briefly misled a significant portion of its audience, very few of those listeners fled their homes or otherwise panicked. The total number of protest letters sent to Welles and the FCC is also low in comparison with other controversial radio broadcasts of the period, further suggesting the audience was small and the fright severely limited.\n\nFive thousand households were telephoned that night in a survey conducted by the C. E. Hooper company, the main radio ratings service at the time. Only 2% of the respondents said they were listening to the radio play, and no one stated they were listening to a news broadcast. About 98% of respondents said they were listening to other radio programming (\"The Chase and Sanborn Hour\" was by far the most popular program in that timeslot) or not listening to the radio at all. Further shrinking the potential audience, some CBS network affiliates, including some in large markets such as Boston's WEEI, had pre-empted \"The Mercury Theatre on the Air\", in favor of local commercial programming.\n\nBen Gross, radio editor for the \"New York Daily News\", wrote in his 1954 memoir that the streets were nearly deserted as he made his way to the studio for the end of the program. Producer John Houseman reported that the Mercury Theatre staff was surprised when they were finally released from the CBS studios to find life going on as usual in the streets of New York. The writer of a letter that \"The Washington Post\" published later likewise recalled no panicked mobs in the capital's downtown streets at the time. \"The supposed panic was so tiny as to be practically immeasurable on the night of the broadcast\", media historians Jefferson Pooley and Michael Socolow wrote in \"Slate\" on its 75th anniversary in 2013; \"Almost nobody was fooled\".\n\nAccording to Campbell, the most common response said to indicate a panic was calling the local newspaper or police to confirm the story or seek additional information. That, he writes, is an indicator that people were \"not\" generally panicking or hysterical. \"The call volume perhaps is best understood as an altogether \"rational\" response...\" Some New Jersey media and law enforcement agencies received up to 40% more telephone calls than normal during the broadcast.\n\nAs it was late on a Sunday night in the Eastern Time Zone, where the broadcast originated, few reporters and other staff were present in newsrooms. Most newspaper coverage thus took the form of Associated Press stories, which were largely anecdotal aggregates of reporting from its various bureaus, giving the impression that panic had indeed been widespread. Many newspapers led with the Associated Press's story the next day.\n\nThe \"Twin City Sentinel\" of Winston-Salem, North Carolina pointed out that the situation could have been even worse if most people had not been listening to Edgar Bergen's show: \"Charlie McCarthy last night saved the United States from a sudden and panicky death by hysteria.\"\n\nOn November 2, 1938, the Australian newspaper \"The Age\" characterized the incident as \"mass hysteria\" and stated that \"never in the history of the United States had such a wave of terror and panic swept the continent\". Unnamed observers quoted by \"The Age\" commented that \"the panic could have only happened in America.\"\n\nEditorialists chastised the radio industry for allowing that to happen. The response may have reflected newspaper publishers' fears that radio, to which they had lost some of the advertising revenue that was scarce enough during the Great Depression, would render them obsolete. In \"The War of the Worlds,\" they saw an opportunity to cast aspersions on the newer medium: \"The nation as a whole continues to face the danger of incomplete, misunderstood news over a medium which has yet to prove that it is competent to perform the news job,\" wrote \"Editor & Publisher\", the newspaper industry's trade journal.\n\nWilliam Randolph Hearst's papers called on broadcasters to police themselves, lest the government step in, as Iowa Senator Clyde L. Herring proposed a bill that would have required all programming to be reviewed by the FCC prior to broadcast (he never actually introduced it). Others blamed the radio audience for its credulity. Noting that any intelligent listener would have realized the broadcast was fictional, the \"Chicago Tribune\" opined, \"it would be more tactful to say that some members of the radio audience are a trifle retarded mentally, and that many a program is prepared for their consumption.\" Other newspapers took pains to note that anxious listeners had called \"their\" offices to learn whether Martians were really attacking.\n\nFew contemporary accounts exist outside newspaper coverage of the mass panic and hysteria supposedly induced by the broadcast. Justin Levine, a producer at KFI-AM in Los Angeles, wrote in a 2000 history of the FCC's response to hoax broadcasts that \"the anecdotal nature of such reporting makes it difficult to objectively assess the true extent and intensity of the panic. Bartholomew sees this as yet more evidence that the panic was predominantly a creation of the newspaper industry.\n\nIn a study published in book form as \"The Invasion from Mars\" (1940), Princeton professor Hadley Cantril calculated that some six million people heard \"The War of the Worlds\" broadcast. He estimated that 1.7 million listeners believed the broadcast was an actual news bulletin and, of those, 1.2 million people were frightened or disturbed. Media historians Jefferson Pooley and Michael Socolow have since concluded, however, that Cantril's study has serious flaws. Its estimate of the program's audience is more than twice as high as any other at the time. Cantril himself conceded that but argued that unlike Hooper, his estimate had attempted to capture the significant portion of the audience that did not have home telephones at that time. Since those respondents were contacted only after the media frenzy, Cantril allowed that their recollections could have been influenced by what they read in the newspapers. Claims that \"Chase and Sanborn\" listeners who missed the disclaimer at the beginning when they turned to CBS during a commercial break or musical performance on that show and thus mistook \"The War of the Worlds\" for a real broadcast inflated the show's audience and the ensuing alleged panic are impossible to substantiate.\n\nApart from his admittedly-imperfect methods of estimating the audience and assessing the authenticity of their response, Pooley and Socolow found, Cantril made another error in typing audience reaction. Respondents had indicated a variety of reactions to the program, among them \"excited\", \"disturbed\", and \"frightened\". However, he included all of them with \"panicked\", failing to account for the possibility that despite their reaction, they were still aware the broadcast was staged. \"[T]hose who did hear it, looked at it as a prank and accepted it that way,\" recalled researcher Frank Stanton.\n\nBartholomew grants that hundreds of thousands were frightened, but calls evidence of people taking action based on their fear \"scant\" and \"anecdotal\". Indeed, contemporary news articles indicate that police were swamped with hundreds of calls in numerous locations, but stories of people doing anything more than calling authorities involved mostly only small groups. Such stories were often reported by people who were panicking themselves.\n\nLater investigations found much of the alleged panicked responses to have been exaggerated or mistaken. Cantril's researchers found that contrary to what had been claimed, no admissions for shock were made at a Newark hospital during the broadcast; hospitals in New York City similarly reported no spike in admissions that night. A few suicide attempts seem to have been prevented when friends or family intervened, but no record of a successful one exists. A \"Washington Post\" claim that a man died of a heart attack brought on by listening to the program could not be verified. One woman filed a lawsuit against CBS, but it was soon dismissed.\n\nThe FCC also received letters from the public that advised against taking reprisals. Singer Eddie Cantor urged the commission not to overreact, as \"censorship would retard radio immeasurably.\" The FCC not only chose not to punish Welles or CBS but also barred complaints about \"The War of the Worlds\" from being brought up during license renewals. \"Janet Jackson's 2004 'wardrobe malfunction' remains far more significant in the history of broadcast regulation than Orson Welles' trickery,\" wrote media historians Jefferson Pooley and Michael Socolow.\n\nH. G. Wells and Orson Welles met for the first and only time in late October 1940, shortly before the second anniversary of the \"Mercury Theatre\" broadcast, when they both happened to be lecturing in San Antonio, Texas. On October 28, 1940, the two men visited the studios of KTSA radio for an interview by Charles C. Shaw, who introduced them by characterizing the panic generated by \"The War of the Worlds\": \"The country at large was frightened almost out of its wits\".\n\nH.G. Wells expressed good-natured skepticism about the actual extent of the panic caused by \"this sensational Halloween spree,\" saying: \"Are you sure there was such a panic in America or wasn't it your Halloween fun?\" Orson Welles appreciated the comment: \"I think that's the nicest thing that a man from England could say about the men from Mars. Mr. Hitler made a good deal of sport of it, you know... It's supposed to show the corrupt condition and decadent state of affairs in democracy, that 'The War of the Worlds' went over as well as it did. I think it's very nice of Mr. Wells to say that not only I didn't mean it, but the American people didn't mean it.\"\n\nWhen Shaw interjected that there was \"some excitement\" that he did not wish to belittle, Welles asked him, \"What \"kind\" of excitement? Mr. H. G. Wells wants to know if the excitement wasn't the same kind of excitement that we extract from a practical joke in which somebody puts a sheet over his head and says 'Boo!' I don't think anybody believes that that individual is a ghost, but we do scream and yell and rush down the hall. And that's just about what happened.\"\n\n\"That's a very excellent description,\" Shaw said.\n\n\"You aren't quite serious in America, yet,\" said Wells. \"You haven't got the war right under your chins. And the consequence is you can still play with ideas of terror and conflict... It's a natural thing to do until you're right up against it.\"\n\n\"Until it ceases to be a game,\" Welles said, a phrase that Wells repeated.\n\nBritain and France had then been at war with Nazi Germany for more than a year.\n\nAs the Mercury's second theatre season began in 1938, Orson Welles and John Houseman were unable to write the \"Mercury Theatre on the Air\" broadcasts on their own. They hired Howard Koch, whose experience in having a play performed by the Federal Theatre Project in Chicago led him to leave his law practice and move to New York to become a writer. Koch was put to work at $50 a week, raised to $60 after he proved himself. \"The Mercury Theatre on the Air\" was a sustaining show, so in lieu of a more substantial salary, Houseman gave Koch the rights to any script he worked on.\n\nA condensed version of the script for \"The War of the Worlds\" appeared in the debut issue of \"Radio Digest\" magazine (February 1939), in an article on the broadcast that credited \"Orson Welles and his Mercury Theatre players\". The complete script appeared in \"The Invasion from Mars: A Study in the Psychology of Panic\" (1940), the book publication of a Princeton University study directed by psychologist Hadley Cantril. Welles strongly protested Koch being listed as sole author since many others contributed to the script, but by the time the book was published, he had decided to end the dispute.\n\nWelles did seek legal redress after the CBS TV series \"Studio One\" presented its top-rated broadcast, \"The Night America Trembled\", on September 9, 1957. Hosted by Edward R. Murrow, the live presentation of Nelson S. Bond's documentary play recreated the 1938 performance of \"The War of the Worlds\" in the CBS studio, using the script as a framework for a series of factual narratives about a cross-section of radio listeners. No member of the \"Mercury Theatre\" is named. The courts ruled against Welles, who was found to have abandoned any rights to the script after it was published in Cantril's book. Koch had granted CBS the right to use the script in its program.\n\n\"As it developed over the years, Koch took some cash and some credit,\" wrote biographer Frank Brady. \"He wrote the story of how he created the adaptation, with a copy of his script being made into a paperback book enjoying large printings and an album of the broadcast selling over 500,000 copies, part of the income also going to him as copyright owner.\"\n\nThe book, \"The Panic Broadcast\", was first published in 1970. The best-selling album was a sound recording of the broadcast titled \"Orson Welles' War of the Worlds\", \"released by arrangement with Manheim Fox Enterprises, Inc.\" The source discs for the recording are unknown. Welles told Peter Bogdanovich that it was a poor-quality recording taken off the air at the time of broadcast – \"a pirated record which people have made fortunes of money and have no right to play.\" Welles received no compensation.\n\nInitially apologetic about the supposed panic his broadcast had caused (and privately fuming that newspaper reports of lawsuits were either greatly exaggerated or totally fabricated), Welles later embraced the story as part of his personal myth. \"Houses were emptying, churches were filling up; from Nashville to Minneapolis there was wailing in the streets and the rending of garments,\" he told Peter Bogdanovich years later.\n\nCBS, too, found reports ultimately useful in promoting the strength of its influence. It presented a fictionalized account of the panic in \"The Night America Trembled\", a 1957 episode of the television series \"Studio One\", and included it prominently in its 2003 celebrations of CBS's 75th anniversary as a television broadcaster. \"The legend of the panic,\" according to Jefferson and Socolow, \"grew exponentially over the following years ... [It] persists because it so perfectly captures our unease with the media's power over our lives.\"\n\nIn 1975, ABC aired the television movie \"The Night That Panicked America\", depicting the effect the radio drama had on the public using fictional, but typical American families of the time.\nThe New Jersey Township of West Windsor, where Grover's Mill is located, commemorated the 50th anniversary of the broadcast in 1988 with four days of festivities including art and planetarium shows, a panel discussion, a parade, burial of a time capsule, a dinner dance, film festivals devoted to H. G. Wells and Orson Welles, and the dedication of a bronze monument to the fictional Martian landings. Howard Koch, an author of the original radio script, attended the 49th anniversary celebration as an honored guest.\n\nThe 75th anniversary of \"The War of the Worlds\" was marked by an international rebroadcast with an introduction by George Takei, and an episode of the PBS documentary series \"American Experience\".\n\nOn January 27, 2003, the Mercury Theatre broadcast of \"The War of the Worlds\" was one of the first 50 recordings made part of the National Recording Registry of the Library of Congress.\n\nSince the original \"Mercury Theatre on the Air\" broadcast of \"The War of the Worlds\", many re-airings, remakes, re-enactments, parodies, and new dramatizations have occurred. Many American radio stations, particularly those that regularly air old-time radio programs, re-air the original program as a Halloween tradition. Some notable examples include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30762208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30762208", "title": "Three-torus model of the universe", "text": "Three-torus model of the universe\n\nThe three-torus model is a cosmological model proposed in 1984 by Alexei Starobinsky and Yakov Borisovich Zel'dovich at the Landau Institute in Moscow. The theory describes the shape of the universe (topology) as a three-dimensional torus. It is also informally known as the doughnut theory.\n\nThe cosmic microwave background (CMB) was discovered by Bell Labs in 1964. Greater understanding of the universe's CMB provided greater understanding of the universe's topology. In order to understand these CMB results, NASA supported development of two exploratory satellites, the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) in 1989 and the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "796076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796076", "title": "Tucker Carlson", "text": "Tucker Carlson\n\nTucker Swanson McNear Carlson (born May 16, 1969) is an American conservative political commentator, reporter, author, and columnist who has hosted the nightly political talk show \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" on Fox News since 2016. Carlson became a print journalist in the 1990s, writing for the magazine \"The Weekly Standard\" and others. He was a commentator on CNN from 2000 to 2005; while there, he served as co-host of \"Crossfire\". Carlson then hosted the nightly program \"Tucker\" on MSNBC from 2005 to 2008. He has been a political analyst for Fox News since 2009. In 2010, Carlson co-founded and served as the initial editor-in-chief of the conservative news and opinion website \"The Daily Caller\".\n\nCarlson has written two books: the memoir \"Politicians, Partisans and Parasites: My Adventures in Cable News\" (2003) and \"Ship of Fools: How a Selfish Ruling Class is Bringing America to the Brink of Revolution\" (2018).\n\nCarlson was born in San Francisco, California and grew up on Laurel Terrace Drive in Studio City. He is the elder son of Richard Warner Carlson, a former Los Angeles news anchor and U.S. ambassador to the Seychelles who was also president of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and director of Voice of America. Carlson’s father had been born Richard Boynton and was adopted by the Carlsons at age three. Carlson's mother is Lisa McNear Lombardi; she left the family when Carlson was 6 years old, wanting to pursue a bohemian lifestyle. She eventually moved to France and had little contact with any of the family after that. Carlson has a younger brother, Buckley Swanson Peck Carlson.\n\nIn 1979, when Tucker was 10 years old, his father married Patricia Caroline Swanson. An heiress to the Swanson frozen-food fortune, Swanson is the daughter of Gilbert Carl Swanson, the granddaughter of Carl A. Swanson, and the niece of Senator J. William Fulbright.\n\nTucker and his younger brother grew up in La Jolla, California. While living in La Jolla, Tucker briefly attended La Jolla Country Day School. He then attended high school at St. George's School, a boarding school in Middletown, Rhode Island. After graduating high school, he studied at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut, where he graduated in 1992 with a B.A. in history.\n\nCarlson began his journalism career as a fact-checker for \"Policy Review\", a national conservative journal then published by The Heritage Foundation and since acquired by the Hoover Institution. He later worked as a reporter at the \"Arkansas Democrat-Gazette\" newspaper in Little Rock, Arkansas, before joining \"The Weekly Standard\" in 1995.\n\nAs a magazine and newspaper journalist, Carlson has reported from around the world. He has been a columnist for \"New York\" and \"Reader's Digest\". He has also written for \"Esquire\", \"The Weekly Standard\", \"The New Republic\", \"The New York Times Magazine\", and \"The Daily Beast\".\n\nIn 2000, Carlson co-hosted the short-lived show \"The Spin Room\".\n\nIn 2001, Carlson was appointed co-host of \"Crossfire.\" On the show, Carlson and Robert Novak represented the political right (alternating on different nights), while James Carville and Paul Begala, also alternating as hosts, represented the left. During the same period, he also hosted a weekly public affairs program on PBS, \"Tucker Carlson: Unfiltered\".\n\nOne of Carlson's most memorable appearances on \"Crossfire\" was his heated October 2004 exchange with Jon Stewart, host of \"The Daily Show\" on Comedy Central. Stewart argued that Carlson and the nature of his show were harmful to political discourse in the United States. Carlson later recalled that Stewart had stayed at CNN for hours after the show to discuss the issues he had raised on the air. \"It was heartfelt,\" Carlson said, \"He [Stewart] needed to do this.\"\n\nIn January 2005, CNN announced they were ending their relationship with Carlson and would soon cancel \"Crossfire\". CNN chief Jonathan Klein told Carlson on January 4, 2005, that the network had decided not to renew his contract. Carlson has said that he had already resigned from CNN and \"Crossfire\" long before Stewart was booked as a guest, telling host Patricia Duff: \"I resigned from \"Crossfire\" in April [2004], many months before Jon Stewart came on our show, because I didn't like the partisanship, and I thought in some ways it was kind of a pointless conversation ... each side coming out, you know, 'Here's my argument', and no one listening to anyone else. [CNN] was a frustrating place to work.\"\n\nCarlson's early evening show, \"Tucker\" (originally titled \"The Situation With Tucker Carlson\") premiered on June 13, 2005, on MSNBC.\n\nCarlson also hosted a late afternoon weekday wrap-up for MSNBC during the 2006 Winter Olympics, during which he attempted to learn how to play various Olympic sports. In July 2006, he reported live for \"Tucker\" from Haifa, Israel, during the 2006 Lebanon War between Israel and Hezbollah in southern Lebanon. While in the Middle East, he also hosted \"MSNBC Special Report: Mideast Crisis\". He appeared regularly on \"Verdict with Dan Abrams\" as a panelist in political discussions.\n\n\"Tucker\" lasted fewer than three full seasons. The network announced its cancellation due to low ratings on March 10, 2008, and the final episode aired on March 14, 2008. Brian Stelter of \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"during Mr. Carlson's tenure, MSNBC's evening programming moved gradually to the left. His former time slots, 6 and 9 p.m., were then occupied by two liberals, Ed Schultz and Rachel Maddow.\" Carlson stated that the network had changed a lot and \"they didn't have a role for me.\"\n\nIn May 2009, Fox News announced that Carlson was being hired as a Fox News contributor. He was a frequent guest panelist on Fox's late-night satire show \"Red Eye w/Greg Gutfeld,\" made frequent appearances on the All-Star Panel segment of \"Special Report with Bret Baier\", was a substitute host of \"Hannity\" in Sean Hannity's absence, and produced a Fox News special entitled \"Fighting for Our Children's Minds\".\n\nIn March 2013, it was announced that Carlson would co-host the weekend editions of \"Fox & Friends;\" he had been a contributor and frequent guest host on the program. He replaced Dave Briggs, who left the news channel to join the NBC Sports Network in January 2013. Beginning in April, Carlson officially joined co-hosts Alisyn Camerota and Clayton Morris on Saturday and Sunday mornings.\n\nOn November 14, 2016, Carlson started hosting \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" on Fox News. \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" was created to replace the show \"On the Record\". The show debuted as \"the network's most watched telecast of the year in the time slot\". The program's premiere episode, viewed by 3.7 million, was rated higher than previous editions of \"On the Record\".\n\n\"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" aired at 7 p.m. ET each weeknight until January 9, 2017, when Carlson's show replaced Megyn Kelly at the 9 p.m. ET time slot after she left Fox News. In January 2017, \"Forbes\" reported that the show had \"scored consistently high ratings, averaging 2.8 million viewers per night and ranking as the number two cable news program behind The O'Reilly Factor in December [2016]. In March 2017, \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" was the most watched cable program in the 9 p.m. time slot.\n\nOn April 19, 2017, it was announced that \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" would air at 8:00 p.m. following the cancellation of \"The O'Reilly Factor\". \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" was the third-highest-rated cable news show as of March 2018.\n\nAccording to CNN, Business Insider, Vox and GQ, Carlson's show has promoted and echoed white supremacist discourse. Neoconservative pundit Bill Kristol described the views Carlson expressed on his show as \"ethno-nationalism of some kind\"; Carlson responded that Kristol had \"discredited himself years ago.\" Carlson has denied being a racist and has said that he hates racism.\n\nIn October 2018, \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" was the second-highest rated news show in prime time, after Hannity, with 3.2 million nightly viewers.\n\nOn January 11, 2010, Carlson and former vice president Dick Cheney aide Neil Patel launched a political news website titled \"The Daily Caller\". Carlson served as editor-in-chief, and occasionally wrote opinion pieces with Patel. The website was funded by the conservative activist Foster Freiss. By February \"The Daily Caller\" was part of the White House rotating press pool.\n\nIn an interview with \"Politico\", Carlson said that \"The Daily Caller\" would not be tied to ideology but rather will be \"breaking stories of importance\". In a \"Washington Post\" article, Carlson added, \"We're not enforcing any kind of ideological orthodoxy on anyone.\" Columnist Mickey Kaus quit after Carlson refused to run a column critical of Fox News's coverage of the immigration policy debate due to his contractual obligations to Fox News.\n\nCarlson was a contestant on season 3 of the reality show \"Dancing with the Stars\", which aired in 2006; he was paired with professional dancer Elena Grinenko. Carlson took four-hour-a-day ballroom dance classes in preparation for the competition. In an interview a month before the show began, he lamented that he would miss classes during a two-week-long MSNBC assignment in Lebanon, noting that \"It's hard for me to remember the moves.\" Carlson said he accepted ABC's invitation to perform because \"I don't do things that I'm not good at very often. I'm psyched to get to do that.\" Carlson was the first contestant eliminated, on September 13, 2006.\n\nAlthough in favor of conservative economic policies, Carlson is critical of pure libertarian free market ideals, saying that economic and technological change that occurs too quickly can cause widespread social and political upheaval. He has stated that one model to follow is that of President Theodore Roosevelt, whose interventionist role in the economy in the early 1900s may have, in Carlson's view, prevented a Communist revolution in the United States.\n\nCarlson is considered a conservative , though he has been associated with Libertarian politics in the past.\n\nCarlson criticized 2008 presidential candidate John McCain for being insufficiently ideological. Speaking to Salon.com, Carlson stated:\n\nI liked McCain. And I would have voted for McCain for president happily, not because I agree with his politics; I never took McCain's politics seriously enough even to have strong feelings about them. I don't think McCain has very strong politics. He's interested in ideas almost as little as George W. Bush is. McCain isn't intellectual, and doesn't have a strong ideology at all. He's wound up sort of as a liberal Republican because he's mad at other Republicans, not because he's a liberal.\n\nCarlson has stated that former U.S. president George W. Bush is not a true conservative. In an August 27, 2004, \"Washington Post\" interview, Carlson expressed his \"displeasure with Bush\". Carlson did not vote in the 2004 election, citing his disgust with the Iraq War and his disillusionment with the once small-government Republican Party. He would go on to say:\n\nI don't know what you consider conservative, but I'm not much of a liberal, at least as the word is currently defined. For instance, I'm utterly opposed to abortion, which I think is horrible and cruel. I think affirmative action is wrong. I'd like to slow immigration pretty dramatically. I hate all nanny state regulations, such as seat belt laws and smoking bans. I'm not for big government. I think the U.S. ought to hesitate before intervening abroad. I think these are conservative impulses. So by my criteria, Bush isn't much of a conservative.\n\nCarlson said in an interview with \"The Washington Post\" that he thinks \"that the U.S. ought to hesitate before intervening abroad.\" Carlson is skeptical of foreign intervention.\n\nCarlson initially supported the U.S. war with Iraq during its first year. After a year, however, he began criticizing the war, telling the \"New York Observer, \"\"I think it's a total nightmare and disaster, and I'm ashamed that I went against my own instincts in supporting it. It's something I'll never do again. Never. I got convinced by a friend of mine who's smarter than I am, and I shouldn't have done that. No. I want things to work out, but I'm enraged by it, actually.\"\n\nIn a July 2018 interview about Russian involvement in U.S. elections, Carlson said that Mexico has interfered in U.S. elections \"more successfully\" than Russia by \"packing our electorate\" through mass immigration. This assertion was disputed by journalist Philip Bump, who wrote that the number of Mexicans in the U.S. had decreased since 2009 and asked rhetorically, \"What good has it done Mexico to have a number of its citizens move to the United States and gain the right to vote?\"\n\nCarlson has said he does not consider Russia a serious threat. Carlson has called for the United States to work with Russia in the Syrian Civil War. He opposes overthrowing Bashar al-Assad. Peter Beinart of \"the Atlantic\" said that Carlson has been an \"apologist for Donald Trump on the Russia scandal\". Carlson described the controversy in the wake of revelations that Donald Trump Jr. was willing to accept anti-Clinton information from a Russian government official as a \"new level of hysteria\" and said that Trump Jr. had only been \"gossiping with foreigners.\"\n\nIn April 2018, Carlson questioned whether Syrian president Bashar al-Assad was responsible for a chemical attack that occurred the same month and killed dozens. Carlson suggested, alluding to various conspiracy theories, that a similar attack that occurred the year before (the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack), which was widely attributed to Assad's forces, was a false flag attack perpetrated to falsely implicate the Assad government.\n\nCarlson has been accused by Erik Wemple of \"The Washington Post\" and by writers for Vox.com of demonizing immigrants, both those who immigrated to the U.S. legally and illegally. He has opposed demographic changes in the United States, writing that the demographic change seen in Hazleton, Pa., which saw Hispanics go from a small minority to a majority over a 15-year period is \"more change than human beings are designed to digest.\" Salon.com has described Carlson's views on changing racial demographics in the U.S. as advocating the white genocide conspiracy theory, opining that Carlson is obsessed with the concept. The Anti-Defamation League's Jessica Reaves has analyzed his use of \"white genocide\" rhetoric in a 2018 monologue.\n\nWhen Mitt Romney condemned then-candidate Donald Trump for his refusal to condemn the Ku Klux Klan, saying it was a \"disqualifying and disgusting response... His coddling of repugnant bigotry is not in the character of America,\" Carlson criticized Romney. Carlson said, \"Obama could have written\" that.\n\nIn September 2018, Carlson said that sexual assault allegations against Supreme Court justice nominee Brett Kavanaugh demonstrated \"the left's war on old white men\", and suggested that there could be a race war in the United States.\n\nIn August 2018, Carlson ran a segment where he alleged that the South African government was targeting white farmers due to anti-white racism. In the segment, Carlson criticized \"elites\" who were purportedly concerned about racism \"paying no attention\" to the \"racist government of South Africa.\" Carlson said that \"South African President Cyril Ramaphosa had 'changed the country's constitution to make it possible to steal land from people because they are the wrong skin color.' He also said that the government had begun seizing land from people without compensation.\" \"CBS News, The Associated Press\", \"The\" \"New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\" described Carlson's segment as false or misleading. According to \"The New York Times\", \"Mr. Ramaphosa announced on Aug. 1 that the governing African National Congress (A.N.C.) would move ahead with a proposal to change the country's Constitution and allow the expropriation of some land without compensation... Mr. Ramaphosa has said that speeding up [land reform] will bolster economic growth and agricultural production. More fundamentally, the government has argued, returning land to black South Africans would make the country [more] just.\"\n\nFollowing the Carlson segment, U.S. President Donald Trump instructed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to \"closely study the South Africa land and farm seizure and large scale killing of farmers.\" Trump's tweet was denounced as \"'misinformed'\" by the South African government, which stated that it would address the matter through diplomatic channels. There are no reliable figures that suggest that farmers are at greater risk of being killed than the average South African. Some South African blacks have sought to retake land to which they have made claims, but South African police have stopped such \"ad hoc\" attempts at appropriating land. The South African right-wing group AfriForum took credit for Carlson and Trump's statements, saying it believed that its campaign to influence American politics had succeeded.\n\nOn August 23, 2018, Carlson corrected certain statements about South Africa that he had made the previous evening, but did not admit having made errors. He said that the proposed constitutional amendment was still being debated in South Africa and added that no farms had yet been expropriated. Carlson later stated in an interview that he \"doesn't believe anyone should be rewarded or punished based upon characteristics they can't control\" and added that his South Africa segment made \"'an argument against tribalism'\".\n\nCarlson voted for Ron Paul in 1988 when he was running as the Libertarian Party presidential candidate. On November 26, 2007, it was reported that Carlson lobbied Nevada brothel owner Dennis Hof to support Paul's candidacy. Carlson said, \"Dennis Hof is a good friend of mine, so when we got to Nevada, I decided to call him up and see if he wanted to come check this guy out.\"\n\nOn February 23, 2009, Carlson joined the libertarian think tank the Cato Institute as a senior fellow; he is no longer affiliated with the organization.\n\nCarlson was known for wearing bow ties both on- and off-air until 2006. In 2005 on the season-five episode of \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", \"The Bowtie\", a character refers to Larry David as \"Tucker Carlson\" for wearing one. On April 11, 2006, Carlson announced on his MSNBC show that he would no longer be wearing either a bow tie or a regular tie, adding, \"I just decided I wanted to give my neck a break. A little change is good once in a while, and I feel better already.\" He now wears long neckties on the air, and on the February 28, 2014, edition of \"The Alex Jones Show\", while talking about his reasons for returning to wearing a long necktie, Carlson said that \"if you wear a bow tie, it's like [wearing] a middle finger around your neck; you're just inviting scorn and ridicule ... the number of people screaming the F-word at me ... it wore me down after a while so I gave in and became conventional.\"\n\nCarlson endorsed controversial comments made by his brother, Buckley, about a spokeswoman for New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio. The spokesperson had asked for corrections to a story, and Buckley called her a \"whiny little self-righteous bitch\" and made sexually derogatory remarks. Tucker wrote that Buckley \"meant it in the nicest way.\" Former speaker of the New York City Council Christine Quinn called on both Carlsons to apologize for the \"offensive\" and \"sexist\" comments.\n\nOn the night of November 8, 2018, a group of Antifa activists gathered in the street outside Carlson's home in Washington, D.C. for about ten minutes, chanting, \"we know where you sleep at night!\" Carlson's driveway was also vandalized with a spray-painted anarchist symbol. Carlson, who was not home at the time, asserted that \"someone started throwing himself against the front door and actually cracked the front door\", although a police report did not note any visible damage to the door; his wife, who was home, called 911. Police opened an investigation into the incident.\n\nCarlson is married to Susan Carlson (née Andrews). Together, they have three daughters and one son. Carlson is an Episcopalian and \"loves the liturgy, though he abhors the liberals who run the denomination\". Carlson quit drinking alcohol in 2002, \"having decided that neither the pleasant nights nor the unpleasant mornings were improving his life\". Years earlier, he had quit smoking and replaced cigarettes with nicotine gum, which he buys in bulk from New Zealand and \"chews constantly\".\n\nIn 2003, Carlson authored the memoir \"Politicians, Partisans and Parasites: My Adventures in Cable News\", about his television news experiences; the publisher was Warner Books. One of the book's revelations was Carlson's description of being falsely accused of rape by a woman he did not know who suffered from severe mental illness and displayed stalker-like behavior. Carlson wrote in the book that the incident was emotionally traumatic.\n\nIn May 2017, Carlson, represented by the literary and creative agency Javelin, signed an eight-figure, two-book deal with Simon & Schuster's Threshold Editions. His first book in the series, \"Ship of Fools: How a Selfish Ruling Class is Bringing America to the Brink of Revolution\", was released in October 2018. It debuted at #1 on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "528491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528491", "title": "Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory", "text": "Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory\n\nIn the foundations of mathematics, von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory (NBG) is an axiomatic set theory that is a conservative extension of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory (ZFC). NBG introduces the notion of class, which is a collection of sets defined by a formula whose quantifiers range only over sets. NBG can define classes that are larger than sets, such as the class of all sets and the class of all ordinals. Morse–Kelley set theory (MK) allows classes to be defined by formulas whose quantifiers range over classes. NBG is finitely axiomatizable, while ZFC and MK are not.\n\nA key theorem of NBG is the class existence theorem, which states that for every formula whose quantifiers range only over sets, there is a class consisting of the sets satisfying the formula. This class is built by mirroring the step-by-step construction of the formula with classes. Since all set-theoretic formulas are constructed from two kinds of atomic formulas (membership and equality) and finitely many logical symbols, only finitely many axioms are needed to build the classes satisfying them. This is why NBG is finitely axiomatizable. Classes are also used for other constructions, for handling the set-theoretic paradoxes, and for stating the axiom of global choice, which is stronger than ZFC's axiom of choice.\n\nJohn von Neumann introduced classes into set theory in 1925. The primitive notions of his theory were function and argument. Using these notions, he defined class and set. Paul Bernays reformulated von Neumann's theory by taking class and set as primitive notions. Kurt Gödel simplified Bernays' theory for his relative consistency proof of the axiom of choice and the generalized continuum hypothesis.\n\nClasses have several uses in NBG:\n\nOnce classes are added to the language, it is simple to axiomatize a set theory with classes that is similar to ZFC. First, the axiom schema of class comprehension is added. This axiom schema states: For every formula formula_18 that quantifies only over sets, there exists a class formula_19 consisting of the satisfying the formula—that is, formula_20 Then the axiom schema of replacement is replaced by a single axiom that uses a class. Finally, ZFC's axiom of extensionality is modified to handle classes: If two classes have the same elements, then they are identical. The other axioms of ZFC are not modified.\n\nThis theory is not finitely axiomatized. ZFC's replacement schema has been replaced by a single axiom, but the axiom schema of class comprehension has been introduced. \n\nTo produce a theory with finitely many axioms, the axiom schema of class comprehension must be replaced with a class existence theorem that makes the same statement: For every formula that quantifies only over sets, there exists a class of satisfying it. The proof of this theorem, which is given below, requires only finitely many class existence axioms to translate the construction of a formula into a construction of the class satisfying the formula.\n\nNBG has two types of objects: classes and sets. Intuitively, every set is also a class. There are two ways to axiomatize this. Bernays used many-sorted logic with two sorts: classes and sets. Gödel avoided sorts by introducing primitive predicates: formula_21 for \"formula_19 is a class\" and formula_23 for \"formula_19 is a set\" (in German, \"set\" is \"Menge\"). He also introduced axioms stating that every set is a class and that if class formula_19 is a member of a class, then formula_19 is a set. Using predicates is the standard way to eliminate sorts. Elliott Mendelson modified Gödel's approach by having everything be a class and defining the set predicate formula_27 as formula_28 This modification eliminates Gödel's class predicate and his two axioms.\n\nBernays' two-sorted approach may appear more natural at first, but it creates a more complex theory. In Bernays' theory, every set has two representations: one as a set and the other as a class. Also, there are two membership relations: the first, denoted by \"∈\", is between two sets; the second, denoted by \"η\", is between a set and a class. This redundancy is required by many-sorted logic because variables of different sorts range over disjoint subdomains of the domain of discourse.\n\nThe differences between these two approaches does not affect what can be proved, but it does affect how statements are written. In Gödel's approach, formula_29 where formula_19 and formula_31 are classes is a valid statement. In Bernays' approach this statement has no meaning. However, if formula_19 is a set, there is an equivalent statement: Define \"set formula_33 represents class formula_19\" if they have the same sets as members—that is, formula_35 The statement formula_36 where set formula_33 represents class formula_19 is equivalent to Gödel's formula_39\n\nThe approach adopted in this article is that of Gödel with Mendelson's modification. This means that NBG is a axiomatic system in first-order predicate logic with equality, and its only primitive notions are class and the membership relation.\n\nA set is a class that belongs to at least one class: formula_19 is a set if and only if formula_41.\nA class that is not a set is called a proper class: formula_19 is a proper class if and only if formula_43.\nTherefore, every class is either a set or a proper class, and no class is both (if the theory is consistent).\n\nGödel introduced the convention that uppercase variables range over classes, while lowercase variables range over sets. Gödel also used names that begin with an uppercase letter to denote particular classes, including functions and relations defined on the class of all sets. Gödel's convention is used in this article. It allows us to write:\n\nThe following axioms and definitions are needed for the proof of the class existence theorem.\n\nAxiom of extensionality. If two classes have the same elements, then they are identical.\n\nThis axiom generalizes ZFC's axiom of extensionality to classes. \n\nAxiom of pairing. If formula_49 and formula_50 are sets, then there exists a set formula_51 whose only members are formula_49 and formula_50.\n\nAs in ZFC, the axiom of extensionality implies the uniqueness of the set formula_51, which allows us to introduce the notation formula_56. \n\nOrdered pairs are defined by: \nTuples are defined inductively using ordered pairs:\n\nThe class existence axioms will be used to prove the class existence theorem: For every formula in formula_60 free set variables that quantifies only over sets, there exists a class of that satisfy it. The following example starts with two classes that are functions and builds a composite function. This example illustrates the techniques used to prove the class existence theorem, and hence the types of class existence axioms that are needed.\n\nThe class existence axioms are divided into two groups: axioms handling language primitives and axioms handling tuples. There are four axioms in the first group and three axioms in the second group.\n\nAxioms for handling language primitives:\n\nMembership. There exists a class formula_61 containing all the ordered pairs whose first component is a member of the second component.\n\nIntersection (conjunction). For any two classes formula_19 and formula_64, there is a class formula_31 consisting precisely of the sets that belong to both formula_19 and formula_64.\n\nComplement (negation). For any class formula_19, there is a class formula_64 consisting precisely of the sets not belonging to formula_19.\n\nDomain (existential quantifier). For any class formula_19, there is a class formula_64 consisting precisely of the first components of the ordered pairs of formula_19. \n\nBy the axiom of extensionality, class formula_31 in the intersection axiom and class formula_64 in the complement and domain axioms are unique. They will be denoted by: formula_79 formula_80 and formula_81 respectively. On the other hand, extensionality is not applicable to formula_61 in the membership axiom since it specifies only those sets in formula_61 that are ordered pairs. \n\nThe first three axioms imply the existence of the empty class and the class of all sets: The membership axiom implies the existence of a class formula_84 The intersection and complement axioms imply the existence of formula_85, which is empty. By the axiom of extensionality, this class is unique; it is denoted by formula_86 The complement of formula_87 is the class formula_88of all sets, which is also unique by extensionality. The set predicate formula_27, which was defined as formula_90, is now redefined as formula_91 to avoid quantifying over classes.\n\nAxioms for handling tuples:\n\nProduct by formula_88. For any class formula_19, there is a class formula_64 consisting precisely of the ordered pairs whose first component belongs to formula_19. \n\nCircular permutation. For any class formula_19, there is a class formula_64 whose 3tuples are obtained by applying the circular permutation formula_99 to the 3tuples of formula_19.\n\nTransposition. For any class formula_19, there is a class formula_64 whose 3tuples are obtained by transposing the last two components of the 3tuples of formula_19.\n\nBy extensionality, the product by formula_88 axiom implies the existence of a unique class, which is denoted by formula_107 This axiom is used to define the class formula_108 of all : formula_109 and formula_110 If formula_19 is a class, extensionality implies that formula_112 is the unique class consisting of the of formula_113 For example, the membership axiom produces a class formula_61 that may contain elements that are not ordered pairs, while the intersection formula_115 contains only the ordered pairs of formula_61.\n\nThe circular permutation and transposition axioms do not imply the existence of unique classes because they specify only the 3tuples of class formula_117 By specifying the 3tuples, these axioms also specify the for formula_118 since: formula_119 The axioms for handling tuples and the domain axiom imply the following lemma, which is used in the proof of the class existence theorem.\n\nTuple lemma.\n\nProof:Class formula_124: Apply product by formula_88 to formula_19 to produce formula_127<br>\nClass formula_128: Apply transposition to formula_124 to produce formula_130<br>\nClass formula_131: Apply circular permutation to formula_124 to produce formula_133<br>\nClass formula_134: Apply circular permutation to formula_128, then apply domain to produce formula_136\n\nOne more axiom is needed to prove the class existence theorem: the axiom of regularity. Since the existence of the empty class has been proved, the usual statement of this axiom is given.\n\nAxiom of regularity. Every nonempty set has at least one element with which it has no element in common.\n\nThis axiom implies that a set cannot belong to itself: Assume that formula_138 and let formula_139 Then formula_140 since formula_141 This contradicts the axiom of regularity because formula_49 is the only element in formula_143 Therefore, formula_144 The axiom of regularity also prohibits infinite descending membership sequences: formula_145\n\nGödel stated regularity for classes rather than for sets in his 1940 monograph, which was based on lectures given in 1938. In 1939, he proved that regularity for sets implies regularity for classes.\n\nClass existence theorem. Let formula_146 be a formula that quantifies only over sets and contains no free variables other than formula_147 (not necessarily all of these). Then for all formula_148, there exists a unique class formula_19 of such that: formula_150 The class formula_19 is denoted by formula_152\n\nThe theorem's proof will be done in two steps:\n\nTransformation rules. In rules 1 and 2, formula_157 and formula_158 denote set or class variables. These two rules eliminate all occurrences of class variables before an formula_11 and all occurrences of equality. Each time rule 1 or 2 is applied to a subformula, formula_160 is chosen so that formula_161 differs from the other variables in the current formula. The three rules are repeated until there are no subformulas to which they can be applied. This produces a formula that is built only with formula_154, formula_155, formula_156, formula_11, set variables, and class variables formula_166 where formula_166 does not appear before an formula_11.\n\n\nTransformation rules: bound variables. Consider the composite function formula of example 1 with its free set variables replaced by formula_177 and formula_178: formula_179 The inductive proof will remove formula_180, which produces the formula formula_181 However, since the class existence theorem is stated for subscripted variables, this formula does not have the form expected by the induction hypothesis. This problem is solved by replacing the variable formula_182 with formula_183 Bound variables within nested quantifiers are handled by increasing the subscript by one for each successive quantifier. This leads to rule 4, which must be applied after the other rules since rules 1 and 2 produce quantified variables.\n\nProof of the class existence theorem. The proof starts by applying the transformation rules to the given formula to produce a transformed formula. Since this formula is equivalent to the given formula, the proof is completed by proving the class existence theorem for transformed formulas.\n\nGödel pointed out that the class existence theorem \"is a metatheorem, that is, a theorem about the system [NBG], not in the system …\" It is a theorem about NBG because it is proved in the metatheory by induction on NBG formulas. Also, its proof—instead of invoking finitely many NBG axioms—inductively describes how to use NBG axioms to construct a class satisfying a given formula. For every formula, this description can be turned into a constructive existence proof that is in NBG. Therefore, this metatheorem can generate infinitely many NBG proofs.\n\nA recursive computer program succinctly captures the construction of a class from a given formula. The definition of this program does not depend on the proof of the class existence theorem. However, this proof is needed to prove that the class constructed by the program satisfies the given formula and is built using the axioms. This program is written in pseudocode that uses a Pascal-style case statement.\n\nformula_184<br>\nformula_185<br>\n\nformula_186<br>\nformula_189\n\nLet formula_153 be the formula of example 2. The function call formula_192 generates the class formula_193 which is compared below with formula_194 This shows that the construction of the class formula_19 mirrors the construction of its defining formula formula_194\n\nGödel extended the class existence theorem to formulas formula_153 containing relations over classes (such as formula_199 and the unary relation formula_200), special classes (such as formula_9), and operations (such as formula_202 and formula_203). To extend the class existence theorem, the formulas defining relations, special classes, and operations must quantify only over sets. Then formula_153 can be transformed into an equivalent formula satisfying the hypothesis of the class existence theorem.\n\nThe following definitions specify how formulas define relations, special classes, and operations:\n\nA is defined by:\n\nThe following transformation rules eliminate relations, special classes, and operations. Each time rule 2b, 3b, or 4 is applied to a subformula, formula_160 is chosen so that formula_161 differs from the other variables in the current formula. The rules are repeated until there are no subformulas to which they can be applied. formula_217 and formula_157 denote terms.\n\nClass existence theorem (extended version). Let formula_146 be a formula that quantifies only over sets, contains no free variables other than formula_220, and may contain relations, special classes, and operations defined by formulas that quantify only over sets. Then for all formula_221 there exists a unique class formula_19 of such that formula_150\n\nProof: Apply the transformation rules to formula_153 to produce an equivalent formula containing no relations, special classes, or operations. This formula satisfies the hypothesis of the class existence theorem. Therefore, for all formula_221 there is a unique class formula_19 of satisfying formula_227\n\nThe axioms of pairing and regularity, which were needed for the proof of the class existence theorem, have been given above. NBG contains four other set axioms. Three of these axioms deal with class operations being applied to sets.\n\nDefinition. formula_228 is a function if formula_229\n\nIn set theory, the definition of a function does not require specifying the domain or codomain of the function (see Function (set theory)). NBG's definition of function generalizes ZFC's definition from a set of ordered pairs to a class of ordered pairs. \n\nZFC's definitions of the set operations: image, union, and power set are also generalized to class operations. The image of class formula_19 under the function formula_228 is formula_232 This definition does not require that formula_233 The union of class formula_19 is formula_235 The power class of formula_19 is formula_237 The extended version of the class existence theorem implies the existence of these classes. The axioms of replacement, union, and power set imply that when these operations are applied to sets, they produce sets.\n\nAxiom of replacement. If formula_228 is a function and formula_33 is a set, then formula_240, the image of formula_33 under formula_228, is a set.\n\nNot having the requirement formula_244 in the definition of formula_245 produces a stronger axiom of replacement, which is used in the following proof.\nTheorem (NBG's axiom of separation). If formula_19 is a set and formula_64 is a subclass of formula_193 then formula_64 is a set. <br>\nProof: The class existence theorem constructs the restriction of the identity function to formula_64: formula_251 Since the image of formula_19 under formula_253 is formula_64, the axiom of replacement implies that formula_64 is a set. This proof depends on the definition of image not having the requirement formula_244 since formula_257 rather than formula_258\n\nAxiom of union. If formula_33 is a set, then there is a set containing formula_260\n\nAxiom of power set. If formula_33 is a set, then there is a set containing formula_263\n\nTheorem. If formula_33 is a set, then formula_266 and formula_267 are sets.<br>\nProof: The axiom of union states that formula_266 is a subclass of a set formula_269, so the axiom of separation implies formula_266 is a set. Likewise, the axiom of power set states that formula_267 is a subclass of a set formula_269, so the axiom of separation implies that formula_267 is a set.\n\nAxiom of infinity. There exists a nonempty set formula_33 such that for all formula_49 in formula_33, there exists a formula_50 in formula_33 such that formula_49 is a proper subset of formula_50.\n\nThe axioms of infinity and replacement prove the existence of the empty set. In the discussion of the class existence axioms, the existence of the empty class formula_87 was proved. We now prove that formula_87 is a set. Let function formula_284 and let formula_33 be the set given by the axiom of infinity. By replacement, the image of formula_33 under formula_228, which equals formula_87, is a set.\n\nNBG's axiom of infinity is implied by ZFC's axiom of infinity: formula_289 The first conjunct of ZFC's axiom, formula_290, implies the first conjunct of NBG's axiom. The second conjunct of ZFC's axiom, formula_291, implies the second conjunct of NBG's axiom since formula_292 To prove ZFC's axiom of infinity from NBG's axiom of infinity requires some of the other NBG axioms (see Weak axiom of infinity).\n\nThe class concept allows NBG to have a stronger axiom of choice than ZFC. A choice function is a function formula_5, defined on a set formula_4 of nonempty sets, such that formula_7 for all formula_8 ZFC's axiom of choice states that for every set of nonempty sets, there exists a choice function. A global choice function is a function formula_1 defined on the class of all nonempty sets such that formula_2 for every nonempty set formula_3 The axiom of global choice states that there exists a global choice function. This axiom implies ZFC's axiom of choice since for every set formula_4 of nonempty sets, formula_301 (the restriction of formula_1 to formula_4) is a choice function for formula_304 In 1964, William B. Easton proved that global choice is stronger than the axiom of choice by using forcing to construct a model that satisfies the axiom of choice and all the axioms of NBG except the axiom of global choice. The axiom of global choice is equivalent to every class having a well-ordering, while ZFC's axiom of choice is equivalent to every set having a well-ordering.\n\nAxiom of global choice. There exists a function that chooses an element from every nonempty set.\n\nVon Neumann published an introductory article on his axiom system in 1925. In 1928, he provided a detailed treatment of his system. Von Neumann based his axiom system on two domains of primitive objects: functions and arguments. These domains overlap—objects that are in both domains are called argument-functions. Functions correspond to classes in NBG, and argument-functions correspond to sets. Von Neumann's primitive operation is function application, denoted by [\"a\", \"x\"] rather than \"a\"(\"x\") where \"a\" is a function and \"x\" is an argument. This operation produces an argument. Von Neumann defined classes and sets using functions and argument-functions that take only two values, \"A\" and \"B\". He defined \"x\" ∈ \"a\" if [\"a\", \"x\"] ≠ \"A\".\n\nVon Neumann's work in set theory was influenced by Georg Cantor's articles, Ernst Zermelo's 1908 axioms for set theory, and the 1922 critiques of Zermelo's set theory that were given independently by Abraham Fraenkel and Thoralf Skolem. Both Fraenkel and Skolem pointed out that Zermelo's axioms cannot prove the existence of the set {\"Z\", \"Z\", \"Z\", ...} where \"Z\" is the set of natural numbers and \"Z\" is the power set of \"Z\". They then introduced the axiom of replacement, which would guarantee the existence of such sets. However, they were reluctant to adopt this axiom: Fraenkel stated \"that Replacement was too strong an axiom for 'general set theory'\", while \"Skolem only wrote that 'we could introduce' Replacement\".\n\nVon Neumann worked on the problems of Zermelo set theory and provided solutions for some of them:\n\nIn 1929, von Neumann published an article containing the axioms that would lead to NBG. This article was motivated by his concern about the consistency of the axiom of limitation of size. He stated that this axiom \"does a lot, actually too much.\" Besides implying the axioms of separation and replacement, and the well-ordering theorem, it also implies that any class whose cardinality is less than that of \"V\" is a set. Von Neumann thought that this last implication went beyond Cantorian set theory and concluded: \"We must therefore discuss whether its [the axiom's] consistency is not even more problematic than an axiomatization of set theory that does not go beyond the necessary Cantorian framework.\"\n\nVon Neumann started his consistency investigation by introducing his 1929 axiom system, which contains all the axioms of his 1925 axiom system except the axiom of limitation of size. He replaced this axiom with two of its consequences, the axiom of replacement and a choice axiom. Von Neumann's choice axiom states: \"Every relation \"R\" has a subclass that is a function with the same domain as \"R\".\"\n\nLet \"S\" be von Neumann's 1929 axiom system. Von Neumann introduced the axiom system \"S\" + Regularity (which consists of \"S\" and the axiom of regularity) to demonstrate that his 1925 system is consistent relative to \"S\". He proved:\nThese results imply: If \"S\" is consistent, then von Neumann's 1925 axiom system is consistent. Proof: If \"S\" is consistent, then \"S\" + Regularity is consistent (result 1). Using proof by contradiction, assume that the 1925 axiom system is inconsistent, or equivalently: the 1925 axiom system implies a contradiction. Since \"S\" + Regularity implies the axioms of the 1925 system (result 2), \"S\" + Regularity also implies a contradiction. However, this contradicts the consistency of \"S\" + Regularity. Therefore, if \"S\" is consistent, then von Neumann's 1925 axiom system is consistent.\n\nSince \"S\" is his 1929 axiom system, von Neumann's 1925 axiom system is consistent relative to his 1929 axiom system, which is closer to Cantorian set theory. The major differences between Cantorian set theory and the 1929 axiom system are classes and von Neumann's choice axiom. The axiom system \"S\" + Regularity was modified by Bernays and Gödel to produce the equivalent NBG axiom system.\n\nIn 1929, Paul Bernays started modifying von Neumann's new axiom system by taking classes and sets as primitives. He published his work in a series of articles appearing from 1937 to 1954. Bernays stated that:\n\nBernays handled sets and classes in a two-sorted logic and introduced two membership primitives: one for membership in sets and one for membership in classes. With these primitives, he rewrote and simplified von Neumann's 1929 axioms. Bernays also included the axiom of regularity in his axiom system.\n\nIn 1931, Bernays sent a letter containing his set theory to Kurt Gödel. Gödel simplified Bernays' theory by making every set a class, which allowed him to use just one sort and one membership primitive. He also weakened some of Bernays' axioms and replaced von Neumann's choice axiom with the equivalent axiom of global choice. Gödel used his axioms in his 1940 monograph on the relative consistency of global choice and the generalized continuum hypothesis.\n\nSeveral reasons have been given for Gödel choosing NBG for his monograph:\n\nGödel's achievement together with the details of his presentation led to the prominence that NBG would enjoy for the next two decades. In 1963, Paul Cohen proved his independence proofs for ZF with the help of some tools that Gödel had developed for his relative consistency proofs for NBG. Later, ZFC became more popular than NBG. This was caused by several factors, including the extra work required to handle forcing in NBG, Cohen's 1966 presentation of forcing, which used ZF, and the proof that NBG is a conservative extension of ZFC.\n\nNBG is not logically equivalent to ZFC because its language is more expressive: it can make statements about classes, which cannot be made in ZFC. However, NBG and ZFC imply the same statements about sets. Therefore, NBG is a conservative extension of ZFC. NBG implies theorems that ZFC does not imply, but since NBG is a conservative extension, these theorems must involve proper classes. For example, NBG implies that the class \"V\" of all sets can be well-ordered and that every proper class can be put into one-to-one correspondence with \"V\".\n\nOne consequence of conservative extension is that ZFC and NBG are equiconsistent. Proving this uses the principle of explosion: from a contradiction, everything is provable. Assume that either ZFC or NBG is inconsistent. Then the inconsistent theory implies the contradictory statements ∅ = ∅ and ∅ ≠ ∅, which are statements about sets. By the conservative extension property, the other theory also implies these statements. Therefore, it is also inconsistent. So although NBG is more expressive, it is equiconsistent with ZFC. This result together with von Neumann's 1929 relative consistency proof implies that his 1925 axiom system with the axiom of limitation of size is equiconsistent with ZFC. This completely resolves von Neumann's concern about the relative consistency of this powerful axiom since ZFC is within the Cantorian framework.\n\nEven though NBG is a conservative extension of ZFC, a theorem may have a shorter and more elegant proof in NBG than in ZFC (or vice versa). For a survey of known results of this nature, see . \n\nMorse–Kelley set theory has an axiom schema of class comprehension that includes formulas whose quantifiers range over classes. MK is a stronger theory than NBG because MK proves the consistency of NBG, while Gödel's second incompleteness theorem implies that NBG cannot prove the consistency of NBG. \n\nFor a discussion of some ontological and other philosophical issues posed by NBG, especially when contrasted with ZFC and MK, see Appendix C of .\n\nZFC, NBG, and MK have models describable in terms of the cumulative hierarchy \"V\" and the constructible hierarchy \"L\". Let \"V\" include an inaccessible cardinal κ and let Def(\"X\") denote the Δ definable subsets of \"X\" (see constructible universe). Then:\n\nThe ontology of NBG provides scaffolding for speaking about \"large objects\" without risking paradox. For instance, in some developments of category theory, a \"large category\" is defined as one whose objects and morphisms make up a proper class. On the other hand, a \"small category\" is one whose objects and morphisms are members of a set. Thus, we can speak of the \"category of all sets\" or \"category of all small categories\" without risking paradox since NBG supports large categories. \n\nHowever, NBG does not support a \"category of all categories\" since large categories would be members of it and NBG does not allow proper classes to be members of anything. An ontological extension that enables us to talk formally about such a \"category\" is the conglomerate, which is a collection of classes. Then the \"category of all categories\" is defined by its objects: the conglomerate of all categories; and its morphisms: the conglomerate of all morphisms from \"A\" to \"B\" where \"A\" and \"B\" are objects. On whether an ontology including classes as well as sets is adequate for category theory, see .\n\n"}
{"id": "22089347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22089347", "title": "World Conference on Human Rights", "text": "World Conference on Human Rights\n\nThe World Conference on Human Rights was held by the United Nations in Vienna, Austria, on 14 to 25 June 1993. It was the first human rights conference held since the end of the Cold War. The main result of the conference was the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action.\n\nAlthough the United Nations had long been active in the field of human rights, the Vienna conference was only the second global conference to focus exclusively on human rights, with the first having been the International Conference on Human Rights held in Teheran, Iran, during April–May 1968 to mark the twentieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nThe Vienna conference came at a time when world conferences were popular, with the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development having been held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 1992, and the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, Egypt, soon following in September 1994. More conferences would follow after that, including the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, Denmark, in March 1995 and the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, China, in September 1995. Such conferences were seen as a way to promote global participation, consultation, and policy formation, and were seen as a likely significant new way to influence the direction of international society.\n\nThe notion of having a world conference on human rights was first proposed in 1989. The end of the Cold War brought about the hope that the long stalemate and distortion of United Nations behaviors due to the bipolar superpower confrontation would cease. \n\nIn the run-up to the 1993 conference, much of the optimism of the 1989 era was lost. Preparatory conferences were held in Geneva, Switzerland, beginning in 1991, as were a number of regional and satellite meetings. These struggled to produce new ideas that countries could agree upon, and highlighted differences surrounding the role of state sovereignty, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and whether new or strengthened human rights instruments for the UN were feasible and impartial. The United Nations General Assembly was eventually forced to decide upon the conference's agenda in 1992. Pierre Sané, the Secretary General of Amnesty International, was concerned that conference might represent a backwards step for human rights. He added, \"It's not surprising that governments are not overenthusiastic. After all, they are the ones violating human rights.\"\n\nThe World Conference on Human Rights was attended by representatives of 171 nations and 800 NGOs, with some 7,000 participants overall. This made it the largest gathering ever on human rights. It was organised by Human Rights expert John Pace.\n\nThere was much discussion ahead of the conference on what could and could not be said during it. The rules adopted stated that no specific countries or places could be mentioned where human rights abuses were taking place, including those involved in current conflicts such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Angola, and Liberia, and those subject to ongoing human rights criticism, such as China and Cuba. Instead, human rights abuses were to be discussed in the abstract only; this led \"The New York Times\" to state that the conference was taking place \"In an atmosphere strangely removed from reality.\" In particular, that the ongoing Bosnian War was taking place only an hour's flight from Vienna testified dramatically that no new era of international cooperation had come into place.\n\nDespite the rules, organizations and demonstrators at the conference's physical site were happy to mention specific ongoing abuses all around the world, with many displaying atrocity photographs in an attempt to out-do each other. One person concerned about the Polisario Front and Western Sahara situation said, \"It's hard to be noticed.\"\n\nThe conference did have an expansive view of human rights, with efforts made to highlight women's rights, indigenous peoples' rights, minority rights, and more in the context of universal political and economic rights. Women's rights in particular gained a strong and effective presence at the conference.\n\nOne fault line at the conference was Western nations who proclaimed a universal meaning to human rights versus nations who said that human rights needed to be interpreted differently in non-Western cultures and that attempts to impose a universal definition amounted to interference in their internal affairs. The latter group was led by China, Syria and Iran, and also included a number of Asian nations such as Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Vietnam. On the opening day of the conference, U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher spoke out strongly against this notion, saying \"We cannot let cultural relativism become the last refuge of repression.\"\n\nFormer U.S. House of Representatives member and vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro attended the conference as the alternate U.S. delegate, and was one of the attendees heavily interested in women's rights aspects.\n\nIn spite of pressures from the People's Republic of China, the 14th Dalai Lama was able to give a talk at the conference on human responsibilities.\n\nThe key result of the World Conference on Human Rights was the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, which was formulated late in the meeting and was adopted by consensus of 171 states on 25 June 1993. While one possible interpretation sees this document as a \"well crafted but empty exhortation\", it did come to represent as much of a consensus as could be found on human rights in the early 1990s. And it did in fact set new marks in human rights work in several areas. It established the interdependence of democracy, economic development, and human rights. Specifically, it replaced the Cold War division of Civil and Political Rights (CPR) apart from Economic Social and Cultural rights (ESCR) with the concept of rights being indivisible (you cannot take one type of rights without the other), interdependent (one set of rights needs the other to be realised), and inter-related (that all human rights relate to each other). It called for the creation of instruments to publicize and protect the rights of women, children, and indigenous peoples. It requested more funding for the United Nations Center for Human Rights. Most significantly, it called for a new office, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly subsequently endorsed the declaration as part of Resolution 48/121. It also created the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on 20 December 1993.\n\nBy the early 2000s, all of the explicit establishments recommended by the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action had been met in full or in part. The conference also highlighted the importance that NGOs would continue to play in the human rights infrastructure.\n\n"}
{"id": "100542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100542", "title": "Ātman (Hinduism)", "text": "Ātman (Hinduism)\n\nĀtman () is a Sanskrit word that means inner self or soul. In Hindu philosophy, especially in the Vedanta school of Hinduism, Ātman is the first principle, the \"true\" self of an individual beyond identification with phenomena, the essence of an individual. In order to attain liberation (moksha), a human being must acquire self-knowledge (atma jnana), which is to realize that one's true self (Ātman) is identical with the transcendent self Brahman.\n\nThe six orthodox schools of Hinduism believe that there is Ātman (soul, self) in every being. This is a major point of difference with the Buddhist doctrine of Anatta which holds that there is no unchanging soul or self.\n\n\"Ātman\" (Atma, आत्मा, आत्मन्) is a Sanskrit word which means \"essence, breath, soul.\" It is related to the PIE *etmen (a root meaning \"breath\"; cognates: Dutch \"adem\", Old High German \"atum\" \"breath,\" Modern German \"atmen\" \"to breathe\" and \"Atem\" \"respiration, breath\", Old English \"eþian\").\n\nĀtman, sometimes spelled without a diacritic as \"atman\" in scholarly literature, means \"real self\" of the individual, \"innermost essence\", and soul. Atman, in Hinduism, is considered as eternal, imperishable, beyond time, \"not the same as body or mind or consciousness, but is something beyond which permeates all these\". Atman is a metaphysical and spiritual concept for the Hindus, often discussed in their scriptures with the concept of Brahman.\n\nThe earliest use of word \"Ātman\" in Indian texts is found in the Rig Veda (RV X.97.11). Yāska, the ancient Indian grammarian, commenting on this Rigvedic verse, accepts the following meanings of Ātman: the pervading principle, the organism in which other elements are united and the ultimate sentient principle.\n\nOther hymns of Rig Veda where the word Ātman appears include I.115.1, VII.87.2, VII.101.6, VIII.3.24, IX.2.10, IX.6.8, and X.168.4.\n\nĀtman is a central idea in all of the Upanishads, and \"know your Ātman\" is their thematic focus. These texts state that the core of every person's self is not the body, nor the mind, nor the ego, but \"Ātman\", which means \"soul\" or \"self\". Atman is the spiritual essence in all creatures, their real innermost essential being. It is eternal, it is the essence, it is ageless. Atman is that which one is at the deepest level of one's existence.\n\nThe \"Brihadaranyaka Upanishad\" describes Atman as that in which everything exists, which is of the highest value, which permeates everything, which is the essence of all, bliss and beyond description. In hymn 4.4.5, Brihadaranyaka Upanishad describes Atman as Brahman (universal absolute; supreme soul), and associates it with everything one is, everything one can be, one's free will, one's desire, what one does, what one doesn't do, the good in oneself, the bad in oneself.\nThis theme of Ātman, that is soul and self of oneself, every person, every being is the same as Brahman, is extensively repeated in Brihadāranyaka Upanishad. The Upanishad asserts that this knowledge of \"I am Brahman\", and that there is no difference between \"I\" and \"you\", or \"I\" and \"him\" is a source of liberation, and not even gods can prevail over such a liberated man. For example, in hymn 1.4.10,\n\nAlong with the \"Brihadāranyaka\", all the earliest and middle Upanishads discuss Ātman as they build their theories to answer how man can achieve liberation, freedom and bliss. The \"Katha Upanishad\", for example, explains Atman as immanent and transcendent innermost essence of each human being and living creature, that this is one, even though the external forms of living creatures manifest in different forms, for example, in hymns 2.2.9 and others, its states\n\nKatha Upanishad, in Book 1, hymns 3.3 to 3.4, describes the widely cited analogy of chariot for the relation of \"Soul, Self\" to body, mind and senses. Stephen Kaplan translates these hymns as, \"Know the Self as the rider in a chariot, and the body as simply the chariot. Know the intellect as the charioteer, and the mind as the reins. The senses, they say are the horses, and sense objects are the paths around them\". The Katha Upanishad then declares that \"when the Self [Ātman] understands this and is unified, integrated with body, senses and mind, is virtuous, mindful and pure, he reaches bliss, freedom and liberation\".\n\nThe \"Chandogya Upanishad\" explains Ātman as that which appears to be separate between two living beings but isn't, that essence and innermost, true, radiant self of all individuals which connects and unifies all. In hymn 4.10.1 through 4.10.3, for example, it explains it with example of rivers, some of which flow to the east and some to the west, but ultimately all merge into the ocean and become one. In the same way, the individual souls are pure being, states the \"Chandogya Upanishad\"; an individual soul is pure truth, and an individual soul is a manifestation of the ocean of one universal soul.\n\nĀtman is a key topic of the Upanishads, but they express two distinct, somewhat divergent themes. Some teach that Brahman (highest reality; universal principle; being-consciousness-bliss) is identical with Ātman, while others teach that Ātman is part of Brahman but not identical to it. This ancient debate flowered into various dual and non-dual theories in Hinduism. The Brahmasutra by Badarayana (~100 BCE) synthesized and unified these somewhat conflicting theories, stating that Atman and Brahman are different in some respects, particularly during the state of ignorance, but at the deepest level and in the state of self-realization, Atman and Brahman are identical, non-different (advaita). This synthesis overcame the dualistic tradition of Samkhya-Yoga schools and realism-driven traditions of Nyaya-Vaiseshika schools, enabling it to become the foundation of Vedanta as Hinduism's enduring spiritual tradition.\n\nAll major orthodox schools of Hinduism –Nyaya, Vaisesika, Samkhya, Yoga, Mimamsa, and Vedanta– accept the foundational premise of the Vedas and Upanishads that \"Ātman exists\". Jainism too accepts this premise, though it has its own idea of what that means. In contrast, both Buddhism and the Charvakas deny that there is anything called \"Ātman/soul/self\".\n\nKnowing Ātman, also referred to as self-knowledge, is one of the defining themes of all major orthodox schools of Hinduism, but they diverge on how. In Hinduism, self-knowledge is the knowledge and understanding of Atman, what it is, and what it is not. Hinduism considers Atman as distinct from the ever-evolving individual personality characterized with \"Ahamkara\" (ego, non-spiritual psychological I-ness Me-ness), habits, prejudices, desires, impulses, delusions, fads, behaviors, pleasures, sufferings and fears. Human personality and \"Ahamkara\" shift, evolve or change with time, state the schools of Hinduism; while, Atman doesn't. Atman, state these schools, is the unchanging, eternal, innermost radiant self that is unaffected by personality, unaffected by ego of oneself, unaffected by ego of others; Atman is that which is ever-free, never-bound, one that seeks, realizes and is the realized purpose, meaning, liberation in life. Puchalski states, \"the ultimate goal of Hindu religious life is to transcend individually, to realize one's own true nature\", the inner essence of oneself, which is divine and pure.\n\nPhilosophical schools such as Advaita (non-dualism) see the \"spirit/soul/self\" within each living entity as being fully identical with Brahman– the universal soul. The Advaita school believes that there is one soul that connects and exists in all living beings, regardless of their shapes or forms, and there is no distinction, no superior, no inferior, no separate devotee soul (Atman), no separate god soul (Brahman). The oneness unifies all beings, there is divine in every being, and that all existence is a single reality, state the Advaita Vedanta Hindus. In contrast, devotional sub-schools of Vedanta such as Dvaita (dualism) differentiate between the individual Atma in living beings, and the supreme Atma (Paramatma) as being separate.\n\nAdvaita Vedanta philosophy considers Atman as self-existent awareness, limitless and non-dual. To Advaitins, the Atman is the Brahman, the Brahman is the Atman, each self is non-different from the infinite. Atman is the universal principle, one eternal undifferentiated self-luminous consciousness, the truth asserts Advaita Hinduism. Human beings, in a state of unawareness of this universal self, see their \"I-ness\" as different than the being in others, then act out of impulse, fears, cravings, malice, division, confusion, anxiety, passions, and a sense of distinctiveness. To Advaitins, Atman-knowledge is the state of full awareness, liberation, and freedom that overcomes dualities at all levels, realizing the divine within oneself, the divine in others, and in all living beings; the non-dual oneness, that God is in everything, and everything is God. This identification of individual living beings/souls, or jiva-atmas, with the 'one Atman' is the non-dualistic Advaita Vedanta position.\n\nThe monist, non-dual conception of existence in Advaita Vedanta is not accepted by the dualistic/theistic Dvaita Vedanta. Dvaita Vedanta calls the Atman of a supreme being as \"Paramatman\", and holds it to be different from individual Atman. Dvaita scholars assert that God is the ultimate, complete, perfect, but distinct soul, one that is separate from incomplete, imperfect \"jivas\" (individual souls). The Advaita sub-school believes that self-knowledge leads to liberation in this life, while the Dvaita sub-school believes that liberation is only possible in after-life as communion with God, and only through the grace of God (if not, then one's Atman is reborn). God created individual souls, state Dvaita Vedantins, but the individual soul never was and never will become one with God; the best it can do is to experience bliss by getting infinitely close to God. The Dvaita school, therefore, in contrast to monistic position of Advaita, advocates a version of monotheism wherein Brahman is made synonymous with Vishnu (or Narayana), distinct from numerous individual Atmans. Dvaita school, states Graham Oppy, is not strict monotheism, as it does not deny existence of other gods and their respective Atman.\n\nThe Vedanta sub-schools of Vishishtadvaita Vedanta and Achintya Bheda Abheda combine ideas about Ātman from dual and non-dual schools.\n\nĀtman, in the ritualism-based Mīmāṃsā school of Hinduism, is an eternal, omnipresent, inherently active essence that is identified as I-consciousness. Unlike all other schools of Hinduism, Mimamsaka scholars considered ego and Atman as the same. Within Mimamsa school, there was divergence of beliefs. Kumārila, for example, believed that Atman is the object of I-consciousness, whereas Prabhakara believed that Atman is the subject of I-consciousness. Mimamsaka Hindus believed that what matters is virtuous actions and rituals completed with perfection, and it is this that creates merit and imprints knowledge on Atman, whether one is aware or not aware of Atman. Their foremost emphasis was formulation and understanding of laws/duties/virtuous life (dharma) and consequent perfect execution of \"kriyas\" (actions). The Upanishadic discussion of Atman, to them, was of secondary importance. While other schools disagreed and discarded the Atma theory of Mimamsa, they incorporated Mimamsa theories on ethics, self-discipline, action, and dharma as necessary in one's journey toward knowing one's Atman.\n\nThe Vaisheshika school of Hinduism, using its non-theistic theories of atomistic naturalism, posits that Ātman is one of the four eternal non-physical substances without attributes, the other three being \"kala\" (time), \"dik\" (space) and \"manas\" (mind). Time and space, stated Vaiśeṣika scholars, are \"eka\" (one), \"nitya\" (eternal) and \"vibhu\" (all pervading). Time and space are indivisible reality, but human mind prefers to divide them to comprehend past, present, future, relative place of other substances and beings, direction and its own coordinates in the universe. In contrast to these characteristics of time and space, Vaiśeṣika scholars considered Ātman to be many, eternal, independent and spiritual substances that cannot be reduced or inferred from other three non-physical and five physical \"dravya\" (substances). Mind and sensory organs are instruments, while consciousness is the domain of \"atman, soul, self\".\n\nThe knowledge of Ātman, to Vaiśeṣika Hindus, is another knowledge without any \"bliss\" or \"consciousness\" moksha state that Vedanta and Yoga school describe.\n\nEarly atheistic Nyaya scholars, and later theistic Nyaya scholars, both made substantial contributions to the systematic study of Ātman. They posited that even though \"self/soul\" is intimately related to the knower, it can still be the subject of knowledge. John Plott states that the Nyaya scholars developed a theory of negation that far exceeds Hegel's theory of negation, while their epistemological theories refined to \"know the knower\" at least equals Aristotle's sophistication. Nyaya methodology influenced all major schools of Hinduism.\n\nThe Nyaya scholars defined Ātman as an imperceptible substance that is the substrate of human consciousness, manifesting itself with or without qualities such as desires, feelings, perception, knowledge, understanding, errors, insights, sufferings, bliss, and others. Nyaya school not only developed its theory of Atman, it contributed to Hindu philosophy in a number of ways. To the Hindu theory of Ātman, the contributions of Nyaya scholars were twofold. One, they went beyond holding it as \"self evident\" and offered rational proofs, consistent with their epistemology, in their debates with Buddhists, that \"Atman exists\". Second, they developed theories on what \"Atman is and is not\". As proofs for the proposition \"self/soul exists\", for example, Nyaya scholars argued that personal recollections and memories of the form \"I did this so many years ago\" implicitly presume that there is a self that is substantial, continuing, unchanged, and existent.\n\nNyayasutra, a 2nd-century CE foundational text of Nyaya school of Hinduism, states that the soul is a proper object of human knowledge. It also states that soul is a real substance that can be inferred from certain signs, objectively perceivable attributes. For example, in book 1, chapter 1, verses 9 and 10, Nyayasutra states\n\nIn book 2, chapter 1, verses 1 to 23, Nyayasutras text posits that the sensory act of looking is different than perception and cognition, that perception and knowledge arise from the seekings and actions of Ātman (soul). Naiyayikas emphasize that Ātman has qualities, but is different than its qualities. For example, desire is one of many quality of Ātman in Nyaya school, but they state that Ātman need not always have desire, and in the state of liberation, for instance, Atman is without desire. Atman is the object, and the conventional \"I, me\" is one of its subjects, to Nyaya school.\n\nThe concept of Ātman in Samkhya, the oldest school of Hinduism, is quite similar to one in Advaita Vedanta school. Both Samkhya and Advaita consider the ego (asmita, ahamkara) rather than the Ātman to be the cause of pleasure and pain. They both consider Ātman as self, soul that is innermost essence of any individual being. Further, they both consider self-knowledge as the means of liberation, freedom and bliss. The difference between Samkhya and Advaita is that Samkhya holds there are as many \"Atmans\" as there are beings, each distinct reality unto itself, and self-knowledge a state of Ipseity. In contrast, the monism theme of Advaita holds that there is one soul, and that the self of all beings are connected and unified with Brahman. The essence and spirit of everything is related to each self, asserts Advaita Vedanta, and each Atman is related to the essence and spirit of everything; all is one; self is Brahman and Brahman is self. Samkhya asserts that each being's Atman is unique and different.\n\nThe Yogasutra of Patanjali, the foundational text of Yoga school of Hinduism, mentions \"Atma\" in multiple verses, and particularly in its last book, where Samadhi is described as the path to self-knowledge and kaivalya. Some earlier mentions of Atman in Yogasutra include verse 2.5, where evidence of ignorance includes \"confusing what is not Atman as Atman\".\n\nIn verses 2.19-2.20, Yogasutra declares that pure ideas are the domain of the soul, the perceivable universe exists to enlighten the soul, but while the soul is pure, it may be deceived by complexities of perception or its intellect. These verses also set the purpose of all experience as a means to self-knowledge.\n\nIn Book 4, Yogasutra states spiritual liberation as the stage where the yogin achieves distinguishing self-knowledge, he no longer confuses his mind as his soul, the mind is no longer affected by afflictions or worries of any kind, ignorance vanishes, and \"pure consciousness settles in its own pure nature\".\n\nThe Yoga school is similar to the Samkhya school in its conceptual foundations of Ātman. It is the self that is discovered and realized in the Kaivalya state, in both schools. Like Samkhya, this is not a single universal Ātman. It is one of the many individual selves where each \"pure consciousness settles in its own pure nature\", as a unique distinct soul/self. However, Yoga school's methodology was widely influential on other schools of Hindu philosophy. Vedanta monism, for example, adopted Yoga as a means to reach \"Jivanmukti\" – self-realization in this life – as conceptualized in Advaita Vedanta.\n\nThe Atman theory in Upanishads had a profound impact on ancient ethical theories and dharma traditions now known as Hinduism. The earliest Dharmasutras of Hindus recite Atman theory from the Vedic texts and Upanishads, and on its foundation build precepts of dharma, laws and ethics. Atman theory, particularly the Advaita Vedanta and Yoga versions, influenced the emergence of the theory of Ahimsa (non-violence against all creatures), culture of vegetarianism, and other theories of ethical, dharmic life.\n\nThe Dharmasutras and Dharmasastras integrate the teachings of Atman theory. Apastamba Dharmasutra, the oldest known Indian text on dharma, for example, titles Chapters 1.8.22 and 1.8.23 as \"Knowledge of the Atman\" and then recites,\n\nThe ethical prohibition against harming any human beings or other living creatures (Ahimsa, अहिंसा), in Hindu traditions, can be traced to the Atman theory. This precept against injuring any living being appears together with Atman theory in hymn 8.15.1 of Chandogya Upanishad (ca. 8th century BCE), then becomes central in the texts of Hindu philosophy, entering the dharma codes of ancient \"Dharmasutras\" and later era \"Manu-Smriti\". Ahimsa theory is a natural corollary and consequence of \"Atman is universal oneness, present in all living beings. Atman connects and prevades in everyone. Hurting or injuring another being is hurting the Atman, and thus one's self that exists in another body\". This conceptual connection between one's Atman, the universal, and Ahimsa starts in Isha Upanishad, develops in the theories of the ancient scholar Yajnavalkya, and one which inspired Gandhi as he led non-violent movement against colonialism in early 20th century.\n\nAll orthodox schools of Hinduism hold the premise, \"Atman exists, as self evident truth\". Buddhism, in contrast, holds the premise, \"Atman does not exist (or, An-atman) as self evident\".\n\nBuddhists do not believe that at the core of all human beings and living creatures, there is any \"eternal, essential and absolute something called a soul, self or atman\". Buddhists reject the concept and all doctrines associated with atman, call atman as illusion (\"maya\"), asserting instead the theory of \"no-self\" and \"no-soul\". Buddhism, from its earliest days, has denied the existence of the \"self, soul\" in its core philosophical and ontological texts. In its soteriological themes, Buddhism has defined nirvana as that blissful state when a person realizes that he or she has \"no self, no soul\".\n\nHindus believe in Atman. They hold that at the core of all human beings and living creatures, there is \"eternal, innermost essential and absolute something called a soul, self that is atman.\" Within the diverse schools of Hinduism, there are differences of opinion on whether souls are distinct, whether a supreme soul or god exists, whether the nature of Atman is dual or non-dual, how to reach moksha– the knowledge of self that liberates one to blissful content state of existence, and whether moksha is achievable in this life (Advaita Vedanta, Yoga) or is achievable only in after-life (Dvaita Vedanta, Nyaya). However, despite these diversity of ideas and paths in different schools of Hinduism, unlike Buddhism, the foundation premise of Hinduism is that \"soul/self exists\", and there is bliss in seeking self, knowing self, and self-realization.\n\nBuddhist texts chronologically placed in the 1st millennium of common era, such as the Mahayana tradition's \"Tathāgatagarbha sūtras\" suggest self-like concepts, variously called \"Tathagatagarbha\" or \"Buddha nature\". These have been controversial idea in Buddhism, and \"eternal self\" concepts have been generally rejected. In modern era studies, scholars such as Wayman and Wayman state that these \"self-like\" concepts are neither self nor sentient being, nor soul, nor personality. Some scholars posit that the \"Tathagatagarbha Sutras\" were written to promote Buddhism to non-Buddhists.\n\nIn Theravada tradition, the Dhammakaya Movement in Thailand teaches that it is erroneous to subsume nirvana under the rubric of \"anatta\" (non-self); instead, nirvana is taught to be the \"true self\" or \"dhammakaya\". Similar interpretations have been put forth by the then Thai Sangharaja in 1939. According to Williams, the Sangharaja's interpretation echoes the \"tathāgatagarbha\" sutras. The Dhammakaya Movement teaching that nirvana is atta (atman) in 1999, has been criticized as heretical in Buddhism by Ven. Payutto, a well-known scholar monk, who added that 'Buddha taught nibbana as being non-self\". This dispute on the nature of teachings about 'self' and 'non-self' in Buddhism has led to arrest warrants, attacks and threats.\n\nAccording to Johannes Bronkhorst, a professor of Indology specializing in early Buddhism and Hinduism, while there may be ambivalence on the existence or non-existence of self in early Buddhist literature, it is clear from these texts that seeking self-knowledge is not the Buddhist path for liberation, and turning away from self-knowledge is.\n\nThe Atman concept and its discussions in Hindu philosophy, parallel with \"psuchê\" (soul) and its discussion in ancient Greek philosophy. Eliade notes that there is a capital difference, with schools of Hinduism asserting that liberation of Atman implies \"self-knowledge\" and \"bliss\". Similarly, self-knowledge conceptual theme of Hinduism (\"Atman jnana\") parallels the \"know thyself\" conceptual theme of Greek philosophy. Max Müller summarized it thus,\n\n\n\n"}
