{"id": "5862323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5862323", "title": "Abd-al-Uzza ibn Qusai", "text": "Abd-al-Uzza ibn Qusai\n\nIn Islam, ʻAbdu l-ʻUzzá ibn Qusai () forms an important link between his father, Qusai ibn Kilab (c. 400–480), the great-great-grandfather of Shaiba ibn Hashim (ʻAbdu l-Mutallib) and his son Asad ibn Abd-Al-Uzza. He is named after one of the three chief goddesses of Arabian religion in pre-Islamic times, Al-‘Uzzá.\n"}
{"id": "40756391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40756391", "title": "Aldar Tsydenzhapov", "text": "Aldar Tsydenzhapov\n\nAldar Batorovich Tsydenzhapov () was a conscript seaman of the destroyer of the Russian Pacific Fleet who was the only fatal victim of a fire that broke out on the destroyer on 28 September 2010. He was awarded posthumously the Gold Star of the Hero of the Russian Federation for his role in extinguishing the fire and preventing the blast.\n\nAldar Tsydenzhapov was born August 4, 1991, in Aginskoye, Agin-Buryat Autonomous Okrug. He was the youngest in the family, along with his twin sister Aruna, and had an older brother, Bulat, and sister, Irina. His father, Bator Tsydenzhapov, is a retired law enforcement employee, and mother, Biligma Tsydenzhapova, is a kindergarten nurse. After graduating from the hometown middle school № 1 in 2009, Tsydenzhapov was called up to military service in November and transferred to the military unit № 40074 of the Pacific Fleet, stationed in Fokino, Primorsky Krai.\nAldar received this honor for an act of bravery committed on 28 September 2010. He extinguished a fire that broke out on the destroyer \"Bystry\" and was the only fatal victim.\nThe fuel pipeline had burst in the engine room before the destroyer \"Bystry\" left the harbor, and fuel under high pressure surged into the engine room. There were five seamen at that moment. The fire broke out due to an unintentional spark, smoke engulfing the room. One of the mechanics on the engine room team, Aldar, responded first in the emergency situation. He rushed with a wrench to close the water supply to the boiler, thereby preventing potential disastrous explosion of the power station. The valve was located in the epicenter of the fire. He was badly burned and while beginning to lose consciousness he left engine room by himself.\nHe performed his duty in about 9 seconds under conditions in which a person can not do anything. 19 year old Aldar was severely burned and died 4 day later.\nHis act of bravery will forever be part of the history of the Russian Navy. He sacrificed himself in order to save the 300 members crew and the battleship. His name will forever be in the crew member list of the destroyer \"Bystry\" and his bed will be forever perfectly made and untouchable.\n"}
{"id": "909641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=909641", "title": "Aleijadinho", "text": "Aleijadinho\n\nAleijadinho (born Antônio Francisco Lisboa; 1730 or 1738 – November 18, 1814) was a Colonial Brazil-born sculptor and architect, noted for his works on and in various churches of Brazil.\n\nBorn in Vila Rica (Rich Town), whose name was later changed to Ouro Preto (Black Gold), Minas Gerais, Brazil, in 1738 (sometimes said to be in 1730) he was the son of Manuel Francisco da Costa Lisboa, a Portuguese man and his African slave, Isabel. His father, a carpenter, had immigrated to Brazil where his skills were so in demand that he appears to have been elevated to the position of architect. When Antônio was young his father married and he was raised in his father's home along with his half siblings. It was there he is presumed to have learned the fundamentals of sculpture, architecture and the combination of the two. Antônio first appears as a day laborer working on the Church of Our Lady of Carmel in the town of Ouro Preto, a church designed by his father.\n\nIn 1777 he began to show signs of a debilitating disease, probably leprosy or possibly scleroderma, and he received the name \"o Aleijadinho\", \"The Little Cripple.\" Although disfigured and disabled, popular belief holds that he continued sculpting with a chisel and hammer tied to his fingerless hands.\n\nEventually he became more and more reclusive, working mostly at night. When he did go out in public, he would be carried through the streets in a covered palanquin by his slaves/assistants.\n\nHis crowning achievement was the \"Twelve Prophets\" at the Sanctuary of Bom Jesus de Matosinhos at Congonhas. A wealthy businessman, Feliciano Mendes, had built the church to fulfill a vow made while he was desperately ill. Between 1800 and 1805 Aleijadinho sculpted the twelve soapstone figures by having his assistants strap his hammer and chisels to what remained of his hands, which did not at this point include fingers. Since he no longer had feet to stand on he had pads strapped to his knees up which he would climb the ladders needed to get him off the ground. The Twelve Prophets are arranged around the courtyard and stairway in front of the church.\n\nAt the bottom of the stairs is a long courtyard that is bounded by half a dozen pavilions. In each of the pavilions is a scene from the Passion of Christ. There are sixty-six life-sized figures carved in wood from 1780 to 1790, beginning with the Last Supper and ending with the Crucifixion. The main figures, Christ, Peter, James, John, the Good and Bad thieves, Mary Magdalene, and Mary, mother of Jesus are carved by Aleijadinho while the other figures, Roman soldiers, on-lookers and lesser figures were carved by his assistants. The figures were later painted by Manoel da Costa Ataíde, who also painted (1828) the ceiling of Lisboa's Church of Saint Francis of Assisi in Ouro Preto. One of the figures watching the crucifixion is believed to be a portrait (or self-portrait) of Aleijadinho.\n\nMelo (see sources) writes that the prevailing religious ideals at that time were, \"associated with the ideas of pain, acceptance of suffering and reflection on the passion of Christ through visual reminders of His wounds.\"\n\nHe died on November 18, 1814, and was buried in the Church of Our Lady of Conception of Antonio Dias under a wooden floor section with his name carved on it.\n\nAgainst: There is some debate as to whether Aleijadinho actually existed. The theory that Aleijadinho was a myth was proposed by Augusto de Lima, Jr., who suggested that Aleijadinho was invented by Rodrigo Bretas in his 1951 book \"Traços biográficos de Antônio Francisco Lisboa\". This theory relies on the notion that there were no references to Aleijadinho until this book was published.\n\nRecently published research further challenges the traditional biography of the artist. Faced with the lack of documentary evidence, the author identifies Antônio Francisco Lisboa as a poor sculptor in 18th century Vila Rica (Ouro Preto's original name), but not a victim of the deformities that would have earned him the nickname. His work, of much smaller scope than usually attributed, had to be confined to Ouro Preto and surrounding areas, where he lived all of his life. There is no evidence for his work as an architect and even his parentage is in doubt. Instead, Guiomar de Grammont proposes the figure of a talented maker of religious imagery, a trade possibly shared with other artisans in the same workshop. In her interpretation, the Aleijadinho myth was created by the Rodrigo Bretas biography and reinforced over time by modernist intellectuals who saw in this character a symbolic founder of an indigenous Brazilian culture.\n\nSupporting: Doubts about Aleijadinho's actual existence have been countered by evidence brought up by researcher Felicidade Patrocínio, who listed over 30 documented works, including the masterpieces on which his fame was built: the 12 apostles and the cycle of the Via Crucis at the Sanctuary of Matosinhos. Who else could have created them?\n\n"}
{"id": "24922792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24922792", "title": "Anna Larroucau Laborde de Lucero", "text": "Anna Larroucau Laborde de Lucero\n\nAnna Larroucau Laborde de Lucero (March 7, 1864 – September 3, 1956) was a French philanthropist and educator. Pioneer of the Argentine grape and wine industry. She was born in Oloron-Sainte-Marie, France, more precisely in the district of Sainte-Croix, Oloron, rue Mercière Nº13, (erstwhile called rue Centule). She died in San Martín, Mendoza, Argentina.\n\nAnna Larroucau, daughter of Louis Barthélémy Larroucau and Justine Laborde, was the elder of 16 brothers, all born in Oloron.\n\nTowards 1878 Anna migrated to Argentina, in company of her uncles and some brothers. In Argentina, Anna worked as an educational governess and during a certain time, she also taught music and French. She was fluent in Basque, Gascon, Spanish and French. Friend of the writer Jules Supervielle's family. Anna pursued her studies at the famous Collège Sacré-Cœur of Oloron.\nTowards 1880, Anna Larroucau introduced in San Martin, Mendoza, the first plants of grapevine of French origin, which she had brought from Bordeaux, France. In all of Mendoza grapevines of Spanish or Italian origins were slowly replaced by these new ones of French origin, providing an improved performance and an optimization of wine.\nOn July 27, 1887 in San Martin, Mendoza, she married Leopoldo Lucero Rincons, a famous farm and cousin of the governor of the neighbor Province of San Luis, General Brigadier Pablo Lucero. The couple Lucero Larroucau will give rise to an important lineage in all of Argentina.\nTowards 1900 Anna Larroucau, already widow, founded the First Company of Charity of San Martín, Mendoza. During decades she ran the association. Through this institution, she worked for the well-being and the education of childhood in that region of Argentina.\n\n\nAbout her family, see also:\n\n\nOther References in Archives\n\n\nSee in Spanish, on Carlos Alvarado-Larroucau weblog page:\n"}
{"id": "1317862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1317862", "title": "Augustine Birrell", "text": "Augustine Birrell\n\nAugustine Birrell KC (19 January 185020 November 1933) was a British Liberal Party politician, who was Chief Secretary for Ireland from 1907 to 1916. In this post, he was praised for enabling tenant farmers to own their property, and for extending university education for Catholics. But he was criticised for failing to take action against the rebels before the Easter Rising, and resigned. A barrister by training, he was also an author, noted for humorous essays.\n\nBirrell was born in Wavertree, near Liverpool, the son of The Rev. Charles Mitchell Birrell (1811-1880), a Scottish Baptist minister. He was educated at Amersham Hall school and at Trinity Hall, Cambridge where he was made an Honorary Fellow in 1879. He joined the Sylvan Debating Club in 1872. He started work in a solicitor's office in Liverpool but was called to the Bar in 1875, becoming a KC in 1893 and a Bencher of the Inner Temple in 1903. From 1896 to 1899 he was Professor of Comparative Law at University College, London. In 1911 Birrell served as Lord Rector of Glasgow University.\n\nHis first wife, Margaret Mirrielees, died in 1879, only a year after their marriage, and in 1888 he married Eleanor Tennyson, daughter of the poet Frederick Locker-Lampson and widow of Lionel Tennyson, son of the poet Alfred, Lord Tennyson. They had two sons, one of whom, Frankie (1889–1935) was later a journalist and critic and associated with the Bloomsbury Group. Birrell found success as a writer with the publication of a volume of essays entitled \"Obiter Dicta\" in 1884. This was followed by a second series of \"Obiter Dicta\" in 1887 and \"Res Judicatae\" in 1892. These, despite their titles, were not concerned with law, but he also wrote books on copyright and on trusts. Birrell wrote, and spoke, with a characteristic humour which became known as \"birrelling\".\n\nAfter unsuccessfully contesting parliamentary seats in Liverpool, Walton in 1885 and Widnes in 1886, Birrell was elected to parliament for West Fife at a by-election in 1889, as a Liberal. He retained his seat in the general elections of 1892 and 1895, but in the general election of 1900 he stood in Manchester North East and was defeated. In 1903 he edited \"Eight Years of Tory Government\", a \"handbook for the use of Liberals\", which attacked the incumbent Conservative administration's record on issues such as housing and worker's compensation. He was returned for Bristol North at the general election of 1906, in which the Liberals won a large majority, and was included in the cabinet of Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman as President of the Board of Education. In December 1905, he was sworn of the Privy Council. Like Campbell-Bannerman, Birrell belonged to the Radical tradition of the party. Birrell also belonged to a group called the \"New Radicals\" or \"New Liberals\", which also included H. H. Asquith, R. B. Haldane and Sir Edward Grey. Birrell introduced the Education Bill 1906, intended to address nonconformist grievances arising from the Education Act 1902. It passed the Liberal dominated House of Commons comfortably, but the House of Lords, with a Conservative majority, amended it with wrecking amendments to such an extent that it undermined the liberal ethos of the bill. This use of wrecking amendments and dilatory parliamentary procedures concerning the education bill ushered in a period of political tension between the Commons and Lords which ultimately concluded with the Constitutional Crises of 1909-11 with the People's Budget. Birrell was the first victim of these tactics with the bill was dropped. With the bill defeated, it made it impossible for Birrell to continue in his post, and in January 1907 he was appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland, to replace James Bryce who had been made Ambassador to the United States. While serving in government, Birrell supported a number of progressive measures and proposals such as expanded housing provisions, land reform, and substantial increases in educational spending at both primary and secondary level.\n\nLike many of his political colleagues and members of the general public, Birrell strongly disapproved of the militancy and violence of the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU; suffragettes). In November 1910, when walking alone from the House of Commons, he was set upon by a group of about twenty suffragettes who had recognised him. While he did not believe there was any serious attempt to injure him, in trying to escape he twisted his knee and \"slipped the knee-cap\". C. P. Scott wrote in his diary that Birrell feared he might require an operation to remove his knee-cap and joked that, if he did, he would remain 'a weak-kneed politician' to the end of his life. Birrell was, however, described by the paper \"Votes for Women\" as one of a number of \"Suffragist members of the Cabinet\" who met with a deputation from the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS), led by Millicent Fawcett, on 8 August 1913, following a similar meeting by the NUWSS with Prime Minister Asquith on the same day. According to \"Votes for Women\", \"The Times\" reported that the ministers asked the deputation what kind of bill the NUWSS was looking for. Other ministers present included Lloyd George, John Simon, Francis Dyke Acland and McKinnon Wood.\n\nBirrell's first Under-Secretary and head of Irish Civil Service at Dublin Castle administration was Sir Antony MacDonnell, who had worked successfully with a previous Chief Secretary, George Wyndham, on the Land Purchase Act 1903. MacDonnell was a well known advocate for Home Rule. MacDonnell's proposals for what was called \"devolution\" – the transfer of local powers to Ireland under a central authority – adopted by the Irish Reform Association's - had encountered strong opposition from Unionists, leading eventually to Wyndham's resignation. This proposal ultimately passed from Sir James Bryce with Birrell inheriting the bill. Birrell modified MacDonnell's proposal and on 7 May 1907 introduced the Irish Council Bill. The bill was initially welcomed by Nationalist leaders John Redmond and John Dillon, and opposed, for different reasons, by unionists and by more radical nationalists who wanted nothing less than Home Rule for Ireland. At a convention of the United Irish League, opposition was so strong that Redmond changed his position; the convention rejected the bill and the government was unable to proceed with it. Birrell suffered further embarrassment when he sought to discontinue the use of the Irish Crimes Act 1887, a coercive measure introduced by Arthur Balfour to deal with agrarian crime, only to be faced with an increase in cattle-driving. Another affair, in which Birrell was not directly involved but for which he had to take part of the blame, was the theft of the Irish Crown Jewels from Dublin Castle (where the Chief Secretary had his offices) in July 1907.\n\nBirrell had more success in areas such as Education and the Irish land question. His excellent relations with both Roman Catholic and Protestant church leaders such as Archbishop of Dublin William Walsh ensured the successful passage of the Irish Universities Bill 1908, which established the National University of Ireland and Queen's University Belfast and dissolved the Royal University of Ireland. It solved the sectarian problem in higher education by dividing the Protestant and Catholic traditions into their own separate spheres and ensured Catholic, Nationalist scholars had access to university education. Contemporaries also praised his achievement in carrying the \"Land Purchase (Ireland) Act (1909)\", which though falling far short in its financial provisions allowed for compulsory purchase by the Land Commission of large areas of land for the relief of congestion, through a hostile House of Lords.\n\nAfter the passing, with the support of the Irish Parliamentary Party, of the Parliament Act 1911, which restricted the power of the Lords to veto bills, Prime Minister H. H. Asquith introduced the Third Home Rule Bill on 16 April 1912. The Unionists, led in Ireland by Edward Carson and in Britain by Tory leader Bonar Law, formed a private army, the Ulster Volunteers, to resist enforcement of the act, and Carson proposed an amendment excluding Ulster from the scope of the bill. Birrell was opposed to the exclusion of any part of the country and when David Lloyd George proposed a compromise involving the exclusion of six of the nine counties of Ulster for a period of five to six years Birrell responded by offering his resignation. Historian Ronan Fanning, in a newspaper article, has described him as \"the arch hypocrite\" because of his public criticisms of such exclusion proposals, but private acceptance of same. The proposal was rejected by both Unionists and Nationalists and Birrell stayed on. In fact, by that stage Lloyd George had effectively replaced Birrell as the Liberal government's negotiator in the Home Rule discussions. The crisis continued through 1913 and into 1914. The bill was introduced for a third time in July 1914, this time along with an amending bill allowing for the exclusion of some of the Ulster counties, but with the outbreak of World War I the bill was passed without further debate, with its implementation suspended until after the war. However, on the collapse of Asquith's Liberal-dominated government in May 1915 and its replacement with a coalition involving Carson, the implementation of Home Rule at any stage became moot.\n\nIn the latter part of 1915 Birrell was one of those Liberal ministers (others being Reginald McKenna (Chancellor of the Exchequer), Walter Runciman (President of the Board of Trade) and Sir Edward Grey (Foreign Secretary)) who were unhappy at the realignment of Britain’s war effort towards conscription, total war and a massive commitment of troops to the Western Front, as advocated by the CIGS Archibald Murray. However, none of these joined Sir John Simon (Home Secretary) in resigning in protest at the conscription of bachelors, due to be enacted in January 1916. However, Birrell wrote to the Prime Minister (29 December) criticizing Murray and arguing that he and Runciman agreed that finance and strategic policy were more important than conscription. Conscription was only applied in Britain, not Ireland.\n\nA further threat to Birrell's administration had arisen with the formation in November 1913 of the Irish Volunteers, ostensibly to safeguard Home rule but in fact, under the influence of the Irish Republican Brotherhood (IRB) aiming to break the union with Britain altogether. Feelings in nationalist Ireland were further aroused by the possibility of conscription. Sir Matthew Nathan, Birrell's Under-Secretary since October 1914, told him in September 1915 that the Nationalist Party was losing ground in the country and that extreme nationalists, often referred to as \"Sinn Féiners\", were gaining support. Nathan took measures such as suppressing newspapers and forcing Irish Volunteer organisers to leave the country. The Irish Party leaders, Redmond and Dillon, cautioned against taking direct action against the 'Sinn Féiners' and the administration kept to that policy. Birrell himself felt that the danger of a bomb outrage was greater than that of an insurrection. His assessment was proved wrong when the Easter Rising began on 24 April 1916.\n\nBirrell had spent Easter in London, where Nathan had telegraphed him with news of the capture and scuttling of the arms ship the \"Aud\" and the arrest of Sir Roger Casement. He had just sent approval for the arrest of the movement's leaders on Easter Monday morning when he was told by Viscount French, Commander-in-Chief of the British Home Forces, that the Rising had begun. He maintained contact with Nathan by telegraph and answered questions in Parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday, then travelled by destroyer to Dublin, arriving in the early hours of Thursday morning. From there he wrote to the Prime Minister, giving him his assessment of the situation. In one of his letters he wrote that he 'couldn't go on'. On 1 May, the day after the Rising ended, Asquith accepted his resignation 'with infinite regret'. This regret was also felt by both Nationalist and Unionist politicians in Patliament. While some, such as Lawrence Ginnell celebrated his departure, both John Redmond and Sir Edward Carson praised the work Birrell completed during his time as chief secretary. Others, such as the Irish civil servant, Sir Henry Robinson, also praised the work Birrell completed and highlighted in his memoirs the number of Acts of Parliament Birrell was responsible for. However, The Royal Commission on the 1916 Rebellion (the Hardinge commission) was critical of Birrell and Nathan, in particular their failure to take action against the rebels in the weeks and months before the Rising. Birrell acknowledged in his memoirs that he did not stoutly defend himself in front of the commission. However, it should be noted that the commission did understand that Birrell was confined to London due to his cabinet and parliamentary duties between 1914 and 1916.\n\nWhile Birrell's first phase as Chief Secretary was a clear success, the period from about 1912 onwards saw something of a decline in Birrell's career which was also mirrored in his domestic life. Birrell's 2nd wife Eleanor had been suffering from an inoperable brain tumour and this eventually caused her to lose her sanity. This affected Birrell deeply, privately and publicly, but he did not tell his political colleagues, who were simply given to understand that she did not care for social life. There were two sons of the marriage Francis and Anthony.\n\nThe quality of his public work deteriorated and as one historian has noted the severe personal strain must have been a contributory factor in \"...the uncharacteristic combination of excessive zeal and indecision which marked [Birrell's] response to the Dublin industrial agitation of 1913\". Only after Eleanor died in 1915 did Birrell begin to regain some of his old energy and effectiveness as a minister.\n\nBirrell did not defend his seat in the 1918 general election, nor did he ever return to Ireland. In 1929, he accepted an honorary doctorate from the National University of Ireland, but storms in the Irish Sea prevented him from making the crossing and he had to receive his degree in absentia. He returned to literature with a further volume of essays and book reviews, \"More Obiter Dicta\" (1920) and a book on his father-in-law, Frederick Locker-Lampson. He died in London on 20 November 1933, aged eighty-three. His autobiography, \"Things Past Redress\" was published posthumously.\n\n\nThe main collection of Birrell's papers, those dealing with his period as Chief Secretary, are deposited in the Bodleian Library. The Bodleian also contains collections of Birrell's public correspondence with political figures of his day, Asquith, Lewis Harcourt and others. Birrell's correspondence with Campbell-Bannerman and Herbert Gladstone are in the British Library. His correspondence with Lloyd George is in the Parliamentary Archives. Correspondence with Herbert Samuel is in King's College, Cambridge. Other collections can be found in the National Library of Ireland, Lambeth Palace, National Library of Scotland and Trinity College, Dublin. His family correspondence is deposited in the University of Liverpool.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9893670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9893670", "title": "Bruce Barrymore Halpenny", "text": "Bruce Barrymore Halpenny\n\nBruce Barrymore Halpenny (born 1937 in Caistor, Lincolnshire) is an English military historian and author, specialising in airfields and aircraft, as well as ghost stories and mysteries. He is also a broadcaster and games inventor.\n\nHalpenny's father was a Canadian First World War soldier who fought at Vimy Ridge, and his mother a British First World War munitions worker from Lincolnshire. Bruce is from Lincolnshire, England.\n\nHalpenny served in the Royal Air Force Police (RAFP) in specialist units, often overseas, but after being wounded, and instead of coming out of the RAF, he moved across to the RAF Police on Special Security Duties (Atomic & Chemical Weapons), and was part of a special RAF military police unit on Special Duties and in the Nuclear Division, that was responsible for the protection of the nuclear weapons that the V bombers were to use in time of war.\n\nIn the 1950s whilst in the Royal Air Force, he was wounded and had to undergo several operations, in which his life was in the balance as dedicated surgeons fought to not only save his hand and arm, but also his life. In rehabilitation, he started writing and research as a hobby, and though he stayed in the RAF and was to serve on Special Duties and in the Nuclear Division, his hobby turned into a profession in later years after leaving the forces.\n\nIn the early period of his writing career, he started out by writing love stories and cowboy stories for the American market under pen names. Then, because of his specialist knowledge of the Royal Air Force, he focused on military history, especially RAF history of World War Two, often with deep insights, facts and personal human interest stories. At one time, he was writing articles for up to 14 military journals around the world, when he was approached by the publishers Patrick Stephens to do the Airfield books due to his vast knowledge and authority.\n\nWhen he researched the British RAF airfield histories, particularly those of London, Yorkshire and Lincolnshire, Halpenny found that public records held very little, if any, information at all, so he had to do all the research himself going back to the very beginning. This helped to unearth a rich source of information, which others have since used, but set Bruce Halpenny as an undisputed RAF expert. For his research on the airfields, Halpenny interviewed 1,400 people, researched records and letters, and travelled thousands of miles. Such was Halpenny's dedication to the history of the airfields that he visited each and every airfield, (some of which he had prior knowledge of from his military days), to ensure accuracy.\n\nHis books quickly became essential reference books for all aviation historians. Virtually all of the information was new, in the sense that it hadn't appeared in the dozens of books which had been written about the RAF, new too were the many photographs that were just a selection of the thousands he collected and commissioned. Such were his photographs and uniqueness, and the way that he used them, that in the opening chapters of his book \"Action Stations 2 Wartime Military Airfields of Lincolnshire and the East Midlands\", were a selection of control tower photos – this was the first time this had been done in any book.\n\nHe has also written various military themed books from such as \"English Electrical/BAC Lightning\" to Wartime Poems. The aircraft he has specialised in are the British jets, English Electric Lightning, English Electric Canberra and Avro Vulcan.\n\nHalpenny had been writing ghost stories in the 1960s, and encountering ghost stories in his exhaustive research into airfield histories, when in 1984 he decided they should form the subject of a special book, and so started to add to, and research his 'ghost-mystery' files about abandoned airfields that murmur and whisper with ghosts. Bruce Halpenny had by 1984 become acknowledged as not only a respected British military historian, expert in airfield histories, but also the expert in RAF Ghosts, especially surrounding airfields. Ghost Stations was born, and in 1986 the first book was published, and proved a best seller as it recounts how \"headless airmen and other spectres have appeared in control towers and other Service buildings throughout the country\". Such was demand that a second book entitled, \"Aaargh!\" was published with over 30 stories, one of which was \"The eerie mystery of Lightning 894\". Aaargh!, was later to become \"Ghost Stations 2\", as more books later followed over the years, and became the cult series of \"Ghost Stations\" books.\n\nHalpenny's unique knowledge and position means he is also known for accessing and finding information generally closed to the general public and media, especially Ministry of Defence (MoD) material concerning UFOs.\n\nHalpenny has always maintained that all airfields are haunted. Over the years, he had uncovered a wealth of material about ghostly experiences on wartime airfields. \"The evidence of ghosts keeps popping up and is so rich that it cannot be ignored,\" he said and he has little doubt why airfields are such a magnet for ghosts, \"You have to remember that 55,000 men of Bomber Command died while operating from Britain in World War Two, and almost all of them met a violent end, so it isn't surprising that dozens of earthbound spirits have been left behind.\"\n\nHalpenny is also a games inventor, and created The Great Train Robbery board game in the 1970s. It was used as a prize on shows such as Tiswas and Crackerjack.\n\nHalpenny has always been vocal in his campaigns for numerous organisations and causes, especially concerning veterans, war widows, wounded and invalided servicemen & women. He has also helped schools and children's charities such as Mencap, in campaigning and highlighting issues, and even in one case when he donated a vintage bottle of wine to help raise funds. The bottle was unique in that it was the last bottle remaining after the Nazis had plundered the cellars of families living in an Italian Abruzzo village in World War II. The author's uncle was a Canadian tank commander whose tank was the first to liberate the village, and was also the first tank to enter Ortona in the Battle of Ortona. The bottle was given to the author, as he lived in Abruzzo and his research work had taken to that area. Halpenny said on donating the bottle:\n\nHe has also long campaigned for the Government to do their part and preserve a 1939-45 War airfield in its original condition; to let future generations see how the RAF operated during those dark days.\n\nHe has also long been a supporter for animal welfare, especially dogs and wolves, and is the president of the Wolf Preservation Foundation.\n\nBruce and his wife, equestrian writer and horsewoman, Marion Rose Halpenny, have a son, Baron Barrymore Halpenny, a commercial artist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21496160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21496160", "title": "Burmese names", "text": "Burmese names\n\nBurmese names lack the serial structure of most modern names. The Bamars have no customary patronymic or matronymic system and thus there is no surname at all. In the culture of Myanmar, people can change their name at will, often with no government oversight, to reflect a change in the course of their lives. Also, many Burmese names use an honorific, given at some point in life, as an integral part of the name.\n\nBurmese names were originally one syllable, as in the cases of U Nu and U Thant (\"U\" being an honorific). In the mid-20th century, many Burmese started using two syllables, albeit without any formal structure. In the late 1890s, British scholars observed that Rakhines commonly adopted three-syllable names whereas Bamars were still using one or two at most. As they become more familiar with Western culture, Burmese people are gradually increasing the number of syllables in their children's names, by use of various structures. Today, names with up to four syllables are common for males and up to five for females.\n\nScholars such as Thant Myint-U have argued that the rise of complex Burmese personal names resulted from the collapse of the Burmese monarchy, which ended the sophisticated system of Pali-Burmese styles, crown service and gentry titles, leaving the majority of Burmese with single-syllable names. Former titles, such as \"min\" (; \"leader\") were re-appropriated as part of personal names.\n\nFor example, Burmese nationalist Aung San's parents were named Pha () and Suu (), both of which are single-syllable names. His birth name was Htain Lin (), but he changed his name to Aung San () later in life. His child is named Aung San Suu Kyi (). The first part of her name, \"Aung San\", is from her father's name at the time of her birth. \"Suu\" comes from her grandmother. \"Kyi\" comes from her mother, Khin Kyi (). The addition of the father or mother's name in a person's name is now quite frequent, although it does not denote the development of a family name. Other nomenclature systems are used as well.\n\nThe use of the names of one's parents and relatives in personal names has been criticized as an un-Burmese adoption of seriality, although it differs from historical Western practices.\n\nBamar names commonly include Pali-derived words combined with native Burmese words, including:\nBurmese people who marry foreigners or move to countries that use surnames may use their name as if part of it represented a family name. For example, Tun Myint's wife changed her last name to Myint, but Myint is part of his personal name.\n\nAs above, honorifics supplement a given name, and can be the normal form of address used both in writing and in speech, especially with a name of one or two syllables. Widespread use of honorifics is found within all cultures in the Burmese region. Although some ethnic groups have special honorifics, these words are recognized and applied by other groups (rather than being translated).\n\nFor example, Aung San's parents are more generally known as U Pha and Daw Suu. These can be translated as \"Mr. Pha\" and \"Ms. Suu\" but are often used more informally.\n\nBelow are some common honorifics used in Burmese names:\n\nAccording to \"The Chicago Manual of Style\", Burmese names are indexed by the first element unless this element is an honorific. Honorifics are mentioned after the other elements of the name, separated by a comma, or are not stated at all.\n\nMany Burmese Buddhists also use astrology (which is determined by the child's day of birth in the traditional eight-day calendar) to name their children. For instance, a Monday-born child may have a name beginning with the letter \"k\" (). The following is a traditional chart that corresponds the day of birth with the first letter used in a child's name, although this naming scheme is not universally used today:\n"}
{"id": "13802798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13802798", "title": "Cheryl Lavoie", "text": "Cheryl Lavoie\n\nCheryl Lavoie is a politician in the province of New Brunswick, Canada. She was elected to the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick in 2006 as the Liberal MLA for Nepisiguit. She was made minister of state for seniors and minister responsible for the Community Non-profit Organizations Secretariat in March 2010.\n"}
{"id": "6859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6859", "title": "Chiang Kai-shek", "text": "Chiang Kai-shek\n\nChiang Kai-shek (; 31 October 1887 – 5 April 1975), also known as Generalissimo Chiang or Chiang Chungcheng and romanized as Chiang Chieh-shih or Jiang Jieshi, was a politician and military leader who served as the leader of the Republic of China between 1928 and 1975, first in mainland China until 1949 and then in exile in Taiwan. He was recognized by much of the world as the head of the legitimate government of China until the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nChiang was an influential member of the Kuomintang (KMT), the Chinese Nationalist Party, as well as a close ally of Sun Yat-sen's. Chiang became the Commandant of the Kuomintang's Whampoa Military Academy and took Sun's place as leader of the KMT following the Canton Coup in early 1926. Having neutralized the party's left wing, Chiang then led Sun's long-postponed Northern Expedition, conquering or reaching accommodations with China's many warlords.\n\nFrom 1928 to 1948, Chiang served as chairman of the National Government of the Republic of China (ROC). Chiang was socially conservative, promoting traditional Chinese culture in the New Life Movement. Unable to maintain Sun's good relations with the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), Chiang purged them in a massacre at Shanghai and repressed uprisings at Kwangtung (\"Canton\" region) and elsewhere.\n\nAt the onset of the Second Sino-Japanese War, which later became the Chinese theater of World War II, Manchurian warlord Zhang Xueliang kidnapped Chiang and obliged him to establish a Second United Front with the CCP. After the defeat of the Japanese, the American-sponsored Marshall Mission, an attempt to negotiate a coalition government, failed in 1946. The Chinese Civil War resumed, with the CCP led by Mao Zedong defeating the KMT and declaring the People's Republic of China in 1949. Chiang's government and army retreated to Taiwan, where Chiang imposed martial law and persecuted critics in a period known as the \"White Terror\". After evacuating to Taiwan, Chiang's government continued to declare its intention to retake mainland China. Chiang ruled Taiwan securely as President of the Republic of China and General of the Kuomintang until his death in 1975, just one year before Mao's death.\n\nLike Mao, Chiang is regarded as a controversial figure. Supporters credit him with playing a major part in the Allied victory of World War II and unifying the nation and a national figure of the Chinese resistance against Japan as well as his staunch anti-Soviet and anti-communist stance. Detractors and critics denounce him as a dictator at the front of an authoritarian autocracy who suppressed and purged opponents and critics and arbitrarily incarcerated those he deemed as opposing to the Kuomintang among others.\n\nLike many other Chinese historical figures, Chiang used several names throughout his life. That inscribed in the genealogical records of his family is Jiang Zhoutai (). This so-called \"register name\" (譜名) is the one under which his extended relatives knew him, and the one he used in formal occasions, such as when he got married. In deference to tradition, family members did not use the register name in conversation with people outside of the family. The concept of a \"real\" or original name is not as clear-cut in China as it is in the Western world.\n\nIn honor of tradition, Chinese families waited a number of years before officially naming their children. In the meantime, they used a \"milk name\" (), given to the infant shortly after his birth and known only to the close family, thus the actual name that Chiang received at birth was Jiang Ruiyuan ().\n\nIn 1903, the 16-year-old Chiang went to Ningbo to be a student, and he chose a \"school name\" (). This was actually the formal name of a person, used by older people to address him, and the one he would use the most in the first decades of his life (as the person grew older, younger generations would have to use one of the courtesy names instead). Colloquially, the school name is called \"big name\" (), whereas the \"milk name\" is known as the \"small name\" (). The school name that Chiang chose for himself was Zhiqing (, which means \"purity of intentions\"). For the next fifteen years or so, Chiang was known as Jiang Zhiqing (Wade-Giles: Chiang Chi-ch‘ing). This is the name under which Sun Yat-sen knew him when Chiang joined the republicans in Kwangtung in the 1910s.\n\nIn 1912, when Jiang Zhiqing was in Japan, he started to use the name Chiang Kai-shek (Chinese: 蔣介石; Pinyin: ; Wade-Giles: Chiang Chieh-shih) as a pen name for the articles that he published in a Chinese magazine he founded: \"Voice of the Army\" (). \"Jieshi\" is the Pinyin romanization of this name, based on Mandarin, but the most recognized romanized rendering is \"Kai-shek\" which is in Cantonese romanization. As the republicans were based in Canton (a Cantonese speaking area, now commonly known as Guangdong province), Chiang became known by Westerners under the Cantonese romanization of his courtesy name, while the family name as known in English seems to be the Mandarin pronunciation of his Chinese family name, transliterated in Wade-Giles.\n\n\"Kai-shek\"/\"Jieshi\" soon became Chiang's courtesy name (). Some think the name was chosen from the classic Chinese book the \"I Ching\"; \"介于石\", \"[he who is] firm as a rock\", is the beginning of line 2 of Hexagram 16, \"豫\". Others note that the first character of his courtesy name is also the first character of the courtesy name of his brother and other male relatives on the same generation line, while the second character of his courtesy name \"shi\" (—meaning \"stone\") suggests the second character of his \"register name\" \"tai\" (—the famous Mount Tai of China). Courtesy names in China often bore a connection with the personal name of the person. As the courtesy name is the name used by people of the same generation to address the person, Chiang soon became known under this new name.\n\nSometime in 1917 or 1918, as Chiang became close to Sun Yat-sen, he changed his name from Jiang Zhiqing to Jiang Zhongzheng (). By adopting the name Chung-cheng (\"central uprightness\"), he was choosing a name very similar to the name of Sun Yat-sen, who was (and still is) known among Chinese as Zhongshan (—meaning \"central mountain\"), thus establishing a link between the two. The meaning of uprightness, rectitude, or orthodoxy, implied by his name, also positioned him as the legitimate heir of Sun Yat-sen and his ideas. Not surprisingly, the Chinese Communists always rejected the use of this name and it is not well known in mainland China. However, it was readily accepted by members of the Chinese Nationalist Party and is the name under which Chiang Kai-shek is still commonly known in Taiwan. Often the name is shortened to \"Chung-cheng\" only (\"Zhongzheng\" in Pinyin). Many public places in Taiwan are named Chungcheng after Chiang. For many years passengers arriving at the Chiang Kai-shek International Airport were greeted by signs in Chinese welcoming them to the \"Chung Cheng International Airport\". Similarly, the monument erected to Chiang's memory in Taipei, known in English as Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall, was literally named \"Chung Cheng Memorial Hall\" in Chinese. In Singapore, Chung Cheng High School was named after him.\n\nHis name is also written in Taiwan as \"The Late President Lord Chiang\" (), where the one-character-wide space known as nuo tai shows respect, but this practice has lost some popularity. However, he is still known as \"Lord Chiang\" (蔣公) (without the title or space), along with the name Chiang Chung-cheng, in Taiwan.\n\nChiang was born in Xikou, a town in Fenghua, Zhejiang, about west of central Ningbo. His family's ancestral home—a concept important in Chinese society—was Heqiao (), a town in Yixing, Jiangsu, about southwest of central Wuxi and from the shores of Lake Tai. His father Jiang Zhaocong () and mother Wang Caiyu () were members of a prosperous family of salt merchants. Chiang lost his father when he was eight, and he wrote of his mother as the \"embodiment of Confucian virtues\".The young Chiang was inspired throughout his youth by the realisation that the reputation of an honored family rested upon his shoulders. He was a mischievous child, at only three years old he thrust a pair of chopsticks down his throat to see how far they would reach. They became stuck and were removed with great difficulty. Even at a young age he was interested in war, and directed mimic campaigns with a wooden sword and spear. As he grew older, Chiang became more aware of the issues that surrounded him and in his speech to the Kuomintang in 1945 said:\n\nChiang grew up at a time in which military defeats, natural disasters, revolts, and the machinations of the empress dowager Cixi had left the Manchu-dominated Qing Empire destabilized and in debt. Successive demands of the Western powers and Japan since the Opium War had left China owing millions of taels of silver. During his first visits to Japan to pursue a military career in 1906, he describes having strong nationalistic feelings with a desire among other things to, \"expel the Manchu Qing and to restore China\". He decided to pursue a military career. He began his military training at the Baoding Military Academy in 1906, the same year Japan left its bimetallic currency standard, devaluing its yen. He left for Tokyo Shinbu Gakko, a preparatory school for the Imperial Japanese Army Academy intended for Chinese students, in 1907. There, he came under the influence of compatriots to support the revolutionary movement to overthrow the Qing and to set up a Han-dominated Chinese republic. He befriended fellow Zhejiangese Chen Qimei, and in 1908 Chen brought Chiang into the Tongmenghui, an important revolutionary brotherhood of the era. Finishing his schooling, Chiang served in the Imperial Japanese Army from 1909 to 1911.\n\nAfter learning of the outbreak (October 1911) of the Wuchang Uprising, Chiang returned to China in 1911, intending to fight as an artillery officer. He served in the revolutionary forces, leading a regiment in Shanghai under his friend and mentor Chen Qimei, as one of Chen's chief lieutenants. In early 1912 a dispute arose between Chen and Tao Chen-chang, an influential member of the Revolutionary Alliance who opposed both Sun Yat-sen and Chen. Tao sought to avoid escalating the quarrel by hiding in a hospital but Chiang discovered him there. Chen dispatched assassins. Chiang may not have taken part in the act, but would later assume responsibility to help Chen avoid trouble. Chen valued Chiang despite Chiang's already legendary temper, regarding such bellicosity as useful in a military leader. Alternatively, Professor Pichon Loh reports that Chiang may have killed Tao in the hospital with a pistol.\n\nChiang's friendship with Chen Qimei signaled an association with Shanghai's criminal syndicate (the Green Gang headed by Du Yuesheng and Huang Jinrong). During Chiang's time in Shanghai, the British-administered Shanghai International Settlement police watched him and charged him with various felonies. These charges never resulted in a trial, and Chiang was never jailed.\n\nChiang became a founding member of the KMT after the success (February 1912) of the 1911 Revolution. After the takeover of the Republican government by Yuan Shikai and the failed Second Revolution in 1913, Chiang, like his KMT comrades, divided his time between exile in Japan and the havens of the Shanghai International Settlement. In Shanghai, Chiang cultivated ties with the city's underworld gangs, which were dominated by the notorious Green Gang and its leader Du Yuesheng. On 18 May 1916, agents of Yuan Shikai assassinated Chen Qimei. Chiang then succeeded Chen as leader of the Chinese Revolutionary Party in Shanghai. Sun Yat-sen's political career reached its lowest point during this time when most of his old Revolutionary Alliance comrades refused to join him in the exiled Chinese Revolutionary Party.\n\nIn 1917, Sun Yat-sen moved his base of operations to Canton (now known as Guangzhou), and Chiang joined him in 1918. At this time Sun remained largely sidelined; and, without arms or money, was soon expelled from Kwangtung and exiled again to Shanghai. He was restored to Kwangtung with mercenary help in 1920. After returning to Kwangtung, a rift developed between Sun, who sought to militarily unify China under the KMT, and Guangdong Governor Chen Jiongming, who wanted to implement a federalist system with Guangdong as a model province. On 16 June 1922, Ye Ju, a general of Chen's whom Sun had attempted to exile, led an assault of Kwangtung's Presidential Palace. Sun had already fled to the naval yard and boarded the SS \"Haiqi\", but his wife narrowly evaded shelling and rifle fire as she fled. They met on the SS \"Yongfeng\", where they were joined—as swiftly as he could return from Shanghai, where he was ritually mourning his mother's death—by Chiang. For about 50 days, Chiang stayed with Sun, protecting and caring for him and earning his lasting trust. They abandoned their attacks on Chen on August 9, taking a British ship to Hong Kong and traveling to Shanghai by steamer.\n\nSun regained control of Kwangtung in early 1923, again with the help of mercenaries from Yunnan and from the Comintern. Undertaking a reform of the KMT, he established a revolutionary government aimed at unifying China under the KMT. That same year, Sun sent Chiang to spend three months in Moscow studying the Soviet political and military system. During his trip in Russia, Chiang met Leon Trotsky and other Soviet leaders, but quickly came to the conclusion that the Russian model of government was not suitable for China. Chiang later sent his eldest son, Ching-kuo, to study in Russia. After his father's split from the First United Front in 1927, Ching-kuo was forced to stay there, as a hostage, until 1937. Chiang wrote in his diary, \"It is not worth it to sacrifice the interest of the country for the sake of my son.\" Chiang even refused to negotiate a prisoner swap for his son in exchange for the Chinese Communist Party leader. His attitude remained consistent, and he continued to maintain, by 1937, that \"I would rather have no offspring than sacrifice our nation's interests.\" Chiang had absolutely no intention of ceasing the war against the Communists.\n\nChiang Kai-shek returned to Kwangtung and in 1924 was appointed Commandant of the Whampoa Military Academy by Sun. Chiang resigned from the office for one month in disagreement with Sun's extremely close cooperation with the Comintern, but returned at Sun's demand. The early years at Whampoa allowed Chiang to cultivate a cadre of young officers loyal to both the KMT and himself.\n\nThroughout his rise to power, Chiang also benefited from membership within the nationalist Tiandihui fraternity, to which Sun Yat-sen also belonged, and which remained a source of support during his leadership of the Kuomintang.\n\nSun Yat-sen died on 12 March 1925, creating a power vacuum in the Kuomintang. A contest ensued among Wang Jingwei, Liao Zhongkai, and Hu Hanmin. In August, Liao was assassinated and Hu arrested for his connections to the murderers. Wang Jingwei, who had succeeded Sun as chairman of the Kwangtung regime, seemed ascendant but was forced into exile by Chiang following the Canton Coup. The , renamed the \"Zhongshan\" in Sun's honor, had appeared off Changzhou—the location of the Whampoa Academy—on apparently falsified orders and amid a series of unusual phone calls trying to ascertain Chiang's location. He initially considered fleeing Kwangtung and even booked passage on a Japanese steamer, but then decided to use his military connections to declare martial law on 20 March 1926, and crack down on Communist and Soviet influence over the NRA, the military academy, and the party. The right wing of the party supported him and Stalin—anxious to maintain Soviet influence in the area—had his lieutenants agree to Chiang's demands regarding a reduced Communist presence in the KMT leadership in exchange for certain other concessions. The rapid replacement of leadership enabled Chiang to effectively end civilian oversight of the military after May 15, though his authority was somewhat limited by the army's own regional composition and divided loyalties. On 5 June 1926, he was named commander-in-chief of the National Revolutionary Army and, on July 27, he finally launched Sun's long-delayed Northern Expedition, aimed at conquering the northern warlords and bringing China together under the KMT.\n\nThe NRA branched into three divisions: to the west was the returned Wang Jingwei, who led a column to take Wuhan; Bai Chongxi's column went east to take Shanghai; Chiang himself led in the middle route, planning to take Nanjing before pressing ahead to capture Beijing. However, in January 1927, Wang Jingwei and his KMT leftist allies took the city of Wuhan amid much popular mobilization and fanfare. Allied with a number of Chinese Communists and advised by Soviet agent Mikhail Borodin, Wang declared the National Government as having moved to Wuhan. Having taken Nanjing in March (and briefly visited Shanghai, now under the control of his close ally Bai Chongxi), Chiang halted his campaign and prepared a violent break with Wang's leftist elements, which he believed threatened his control of the KMT.\n\nNow with an established national government in Nanjing, and supported by conservative allies including Hu Hanmin, Chiang's expulsion of the Communists and their Soviet advisers led to the beginning of the Chinese Civil War. Wang Jingwei's National Government was weak militarily, and was soon ended by Chiang with the support of a local warlord (Li Zongren of Guangxi). Eventually, Wang and his leftist party surrendered to Chiang and joined him in Nanjing. In the Central Plains War, Beijing was taken on June, 1928, from an alliance of the warlords Feng Yuxiang and Yan Xishan. In December, the Manchurian warlord Zhang Xueliang pledged allegiance to Chiang's government, completing Chiang's nominal unification of China and ending the Warlord Era.\n\nIn 1927, when he was setting up the Nationalist government in Nanjing, he was preoccupied with \"the elevation of our leader Dr. Sun Yat-sen to the rank of 'Father of our Chinese Republic'. Dr. Sun worked for 40 years to lead our people in the Nationalist cause, and we cannot allow any other personality to usurp this honored position\". He asked Chen Guofu to purchase a photograph that had been taken in Japan around 1895 or 1898. It showed members of the Revive China Society with Yeung Kui-wan ( or , pinyin Yáng Qúyún) as President, in the place of honor, and Sun, as secretary, on the back row, along with members of the Japanese Chapter of the Revive China Society. When told that it was not for sale, Chiang offered a million dollars to recover the photo and its negative. \"The party must have this picture and the negative at any price. They must be destroyed as soon as possible. It would be embarrassing to have our Father of the Chinese Republic shown in a subordinate position\". Chiang never obtained either the photo or its negative.\n\nChiang made great efforts to gain recognition as the official successor of Sun Yat-sen. In a pairing of great political significance, Chiang was Sun's brother-in-law: he had married Soong Mei-ling, the younger sister of Soong Ching-ling, Sun's widow, on 1 December 1927. Originally rebuffed in the early 1920s, Chiang managed to ingratiate himself to some degree with Soong Mei-ling's mother by first divorcing his wife and concubines and promising to sincerely study the precepts of Christianity. He read the copy of the Bible that May-ling had given him twice before making up his mind to become a Christian, and three years after his marriage he was baptized in the Soong's Methodist church. Although some observers felt that he adopted Christianity as a political move, studies of his recently opened diaries suggest that his faith was strong and sincere and that he felt that Christianity reinforced Confucian moral teachings.\n\nUpon reaching Beijing, Chiang paid homage to Sun Yat-sen and had his body moved to the new capital of Nanjing to be enshrined in a grand mausoleum.\n\nIn the West and in the Soviet Union, Chiang Kai-shek was known as the \"Red General\". Movie theaters in the Soviet Union showed newsreels and clips of Chiang. At Moscow, Sun Yat-sen University portraits of Chiang were hung on the walls; and, in the Soviet May Day Parades that year, Chiang's portrait was to be carried along with the portraits of Karl Marx, Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin, and other Communist leaders. The United States consulate and other Westerners in Shanghai were concerned about the approach of \"Red General\" Chiang as his army was seizing control of large areas of the country in the Northern Expedition.\n\nOn April 12, 1927, Chiang carried out a purge of thousands of suspected Communists and dissidents in Shanghai, and began large-scale massacres across the country collectively known as the \"White Terror\". During April, more than people were killed in Shanghai. The killings drove most Communists from urban cities and into the rural countryside, where the KMT was less powerful. In the year after April 1927, over 300,000 people died across China in anti-Communist suppression campaigns, executed by the KMT. One of the most famous quotes from Chiang (during that time) was that he would rather mistakenly kill 1,000 innocent people rather than allow one Communist to escape. Some estimates claim the White Terror in China took millions of lives, most of them in the rural areas. No concrete number can be verified. Chiang allowed Soviet agent and advisor Mikhail Borodin and Soviet general Vasily Blücher (Galens) \"escape\" to safety after the purge.\n\nHaving gained control of China, Chiang's party remained surrounded by \"surrendered\" warlords who remained relatively autonomous within their own regions. On 10 October 1928, Chiang was named director of the State Council, the equivalent to President of the country, in addition to his other titles. As with his predecessor Sun Yat-sen, the Western media dubbed him \"Generalissimo\".\n\nAccording to Sun Yat-sen's plans, the Kuomintang (KMT) was to rebuild China in three steps: military rule, political tutelage, and constitutional rule. The ultimate goal of the KMT revolution was democracy, which was not considered to be feasible in China's fragmented state. Since the KMT had completed the first step of revolution through seizure of power in 1928, Chiang's rule thus began a period of what his party considered to be \"political tutelage\" in Sun Yat-sen's name. During this so-called Republican Era, many features of a modern, functional Chinese state emerged and developed.\n\nFrom 1928 to 1937, a time period known as known as the Nanjing decade, some aspects of foreign imperialism, concessions and privileges in China were moderated through diplomacy. The government acted to modernize the legal and penal systems, attempted to stabilize prices, amortize debts, reform the banking and currency systems, build railroads and highways, improve public health facilities, legislate against traffic in narcotics, and augment industrial and agricultural production. Not all of these projects were successfully completed. Efforts were made towards improving education standards, and in an effort to unify Chinese society, the New Life Movement was launched to encourage Confucian moral values and personal discipline. \"Guoyu\" (\"national language\") was promoted as a standard tongue, and the establishment of communications facilities (including radio) were used to encourage a sense of Chinese nationalism in a way that was not possible when the nation lacked an effective central government.\n\nAny successes that the Nationalists did make, however, were met with constant political and military upheavals. While much of the urban areas were now under the control of the KMT, much of the countryside remained under the influence of weakened yet undefeated warlords and Communists. Chiang often resolved issues of warlord obstinacy through military action, but such action was costly in terms of men and material. The 1930 Central Plains War alone nearly bankrupted the Nationalist government and caused almost casualties on both sides. In 1931, Hu Hanmin, Chiang's old supporter, publicly voiced a popular concern that Chiang's position as both premier and president flew in the face of the democratic ideals of the Nationalist government. Chiang had Hu put under house arrest, but he was released after national condemnation, after which he left Nanjing and supported a rival government in Canton. The split resulted in a military conflict between Hu's Kwangtung government and Chiang's Nationalist government. Chiang only won the campaign against Hu after a shift in allegiance by the warlord Zhang Xueliang, who had previously supported Hu Hanmin.\n\nThroughout his rule, complete eradication of the Communists remained Chiang's dream. After assembling his forces in Kiangsi, Chiang led his armies against the newly established Chinese Soviet Republic. With help from foreign military advisers, Chiang's Fifth Campaign finally surrounded the Chinese Red Army in 1934. The Communists, tipped off that a Nationalist offensive was imminent, retreated in the Long March, during which Mao Zedong rose from a mere military official to the most influential leader of the Communist Party of China.\n\nChiang, as a nationalist and a Confucianist, was against the iconoclasm of the May Fourth Movement. Motivated by his sense of nationalism, he viewed some Western ideas as foreign, and he believed that the great introduction of Western ideas and literature that the May Fourth Movement promoted was not beneficial to China. He and Dr. Sun criticized the May Fourth intellectuals as corrupting the morals of China's youth.\n\nContrary to Communist propaganda that he was pro-capitalism, Chiang antagonized the capitalists of Shanghai, often attacking them and confiscating their capital and assets for the use of the government. Chiang confiscated the wealth of capitalists even while he denounced and fought against communists. Chiang crushed pro-communist worker and peasant organizations and rich Shanghai capitalists at the same time. Chiang continued the anti-capitalist ideology of Sun Yat-sen, directing Kuomintang media to openly attack capitalists and capitalism, while demanding government controlled industry instead.\n\nChiang has often been interpreted as being pro-capitalist, but this conclusion may be problematic. Shanghai capitalists did briefly support him out of fear of communism in 1927, but this support eroded in 1928 when Chiang turned his tactics of intimidation on them. The relationship between Chiang Kai-shek and Chinese capitalists remained poor throughout the period of his administration. Chiang blocked Chinese capitalists from gaining any political power or voice within his regime. Once Chiang Kai-shek was done with his White Terror on pro-communist laborers, he proceeded to turn on the capitalists. Gangster connections allowed Chiang to attack them in the International Settlement, successfully forcing capitalists to back him up with their assets for his military expeditions.\n\nChiang viewed Japan, America, the Soviet Union, France and Britain as all being imperialists with nobody else's interests in mind but their own, seeing them as hypocritical to condemn each other for imperialism which they all practiced. He manipulated America, Nazi Germany, and the Soviet Union to regain lost territories for China as he viewed all the powers as imperialists trying to curtail and suppress China's power and national resurrection.\n\nSome sources attribute Chiang Kai-shek with responsibility for millions of deaths in scattered mass death events caused by the Nationalist Government of China. He is certainly partially responsible for the 1938 Yellow River flood, which killed hundreds of thousands of Chinese civilians in order to fend off a Japanese advance. This accusation is usually sourced from Rudolph Rummel who was referring to the Nationalist regime as whole rather than Chiang Kai-Shek in particular. Regardless the Nationalist government of China has been accused of mass killings by Rummel, estimating the Nationalist government of China is responsible for between 6 and 18.5 million deaths.\nHe attributes this death toll to a few major causes, for example:\n\nIn Nanjing, on April 1931, Chiang Kai-shek attended a national leadership conference with Zhang Xueliang and General Ma Fuxiang, in which Chiang and Zhang dauntlessly upheld that Manchuria was part of China in the face of the Japanese invasion. After the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931, Chiang resigned as Chairman of the National Government. He returned shortly afterwards, adopting the slogan \"first internal pacification, then external resistance\". However, this policy of avoiding a frontal war against the Japanese was widely unpopular. In 1932, while Chiang was seeking first to defeat the Communists, Japan launched an advance on Shanghai and bombarded Nanjing. This disrupted Chiang's offensives against the Communists for a time, although it was the northern factions of Hu Hanmin's Kwangtung government (notably the 19th Route Army) that primarily led the offensive against the Japanese during this skirmish. Brought into the Nationalist army immediately after the battle, the 19th Route Army's career under Chiang would be cut short after it was disbanded for demonstrating socialist tendencies.\n\nIn December 1936, Chiang flew to Xi'an to coordinate a major assault on the Red Army and the Communist Republic that had retreated into Yan'an. However, Chiang's allied commander Zhang Xueliang, whose forces were used in his attack and whose homeland of Manchuria had been recently invaded by the Japanese, did not support the attack on the Communists. On December 12, Zhang and several other Nationalist generals headed by Yang Hucheng of Shaanxi kidnapped Chiang for two weeks in what is known as the Xi'an Incident. They forced Chiang into making a \"Second United Front\" with the Communists against Japan. After releasing Chiang and returning to Nanjing with him, Zhang was placed under house arrest and the generals who had assisted him were executed. Chiang's commitment to the Second United Front was nominal at best, and it was all but broken up in 1941.\nThe Second Sino-Japanese War broke out in July 1937, and in August of that year Chiang sent of his best-trained and equipped soldiers to defend Shanghai. With over 200,000 Chinese casualties, Chiang lost the political cream of his Whampoa-trained officers. Although Chiang lost militarily, the battle dispelled Japanese claims that it could conquer China in three months and demonstrated to the Western powers that the Chinese would continue the fight. By December, the capital city of Nanjing had fallen to the Japanese resulting in the Nanking Massacre. Chiang moved the government inland, first to Wuhan and later to Chongqing.\n\nHaving lost most of China's economic and industrial centers, Chiang withdrew into the hinterlands, stretching the Japanese supply lines and bogging down Japanese soldiers in the vast Chinese interior. As part of a policy of protracted resistance, Chiang authorized the use of scorched earth tactics, resulting in many civilian deaths. During the Nationalists' retreat from Zhengzhou, the dams around the city were deliberately destroyed by the Nationalist army in order to delay the Japanese advance, killing 500,000 people in the subsequent 1938 Yellow River flood.\n\nAfter heavy fighting, the Japanese occupied Wuhan in the fall of 1938 and the Nationalists retreated farther inland, to Chongqing. While en route to Chongqing, the Nationalist army intentionally started the \"fire of Changsha\", as a part of the scorched earth policy. The fire destroyed much of the city, killed twenty thousand civilians, and left hundreds of thousands of people homeless. Due to an organizational error (it was claimed), the fire was begun without any warning to the residents of the city. The Nationalists eventually blamed three local commanders for the fire and executed them. Newspapers across China blamed the fire on (non-KMT) arsonists, but the blaze contributed to a nationwide loss of support for the KMT.\n\nIn 1939 Muslim leaders Isa Yusuf Alptekin and Ma Fuliang were sent by Chiang to several Middle eastern countries, including Egypt, Turkey, and Syria, to gain support for the Chinese War against Japan, and to express his support for Muslims.\n\nThe Japanese, controlling the puppet-state of Manchukuo and much of China's eastern seaboard, appointed Wang Jingwei as a Quisling-ruler of the occupied Chinese territories around Nanjing. Wang named himself President of the Executive Yuan and Chairman of the National Government (not the same 'National Government' as Chiang's), and led a surprisingly large minority of anti-Chiang/anti-Communist Chinese against his old comrades. He died in 1944, within a year of the end of World War II.\n\nThe Hui Muslim Xidaotang sect pledged allegiance to the Kuomintang after their rise to power and Hui Muslim General Bai Chongxi acquainted Chiang Kaishek with the Xidaotang jiaozhu Ma Mingren in 1941 in Chongqing.\n\nIn 1942 Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek went on tour in northwestern China in Xinjiang, Gansu, Ningxia, Shaanxi, and Qinghai, where he met both Muslim Generals Ma Buqing and Ma Bufang. He also met the Muslim Generals Ma Hongbin and Ma Hongkui separately.\n\nA border crisis erupted with Tibet in 1942. Under orders from Chiang Kai-shek, Ma Bufang repaired Yushu airport to prevent Tibetan separatists from seeking independence. Chiang also ordered Ma Bufang to put his Muslim soldiers on alert for an invasion of Tibet in 1942. Ma Bufang complied and moved several thousand troops to the border with Tibet. Chiang also threatened the Tibetans with aerial bombardment if they worked with the Japanese. Ma Bufang attacked the Tibetan Buddhist Tsang monastery in 1941. He also constantly attacked the Labrang monastery.\n\nWith the attack on Pearl Harbor and the opening of the Pacific War, China became one of the Allied Powers. During and after World War II, Chiang and his American-educated wife Soong Mei-ling, known in the United States as \"Madame Chiang\", held the support of the China Lobby in the United States, which saw in them the hope of a Christian and democratic China. Chiang was even named the Supreme Commander of Allied forces in the China war zone. He was appointed Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath in 1942.\n\nGeneral Joseph Stilwell, an American military adviser to Chiang during World War II, strongly criticized Chiang and his generals for what he saw as their incompetence and corruption. In 1944, the United States Army Air Corps commenced Operation Matterhorn in order to bomb Japan's steel industry from bases to be constructed in mainland China. This was meant to fulfill President Roosevelt's promise to Chiang Kai-shek to begin bombing operations against Japan by November 1944. However, Chiang Kai-shek's subordinates refused to take airbase construction seriously until enough capital had been delivered to permit embezzlement on a massive scale. Stilwell estimated that at least half of the $100 million spent on construction of airbases was embezzled by Nationalist party officials.\n\nChiang played the Soviets and Americans against each other during the war. He first told the Americans that they would be welcome in talks between the Soviet Union and China, then secretly told the Soviets that the Americans were unimportant and that their opinions would not be considered. Chiang also used American support and military power in China against the ambitions of the Soviet Union to dominate the talks, stopping the Soviets from taking full advantage of the situation in China with the threat of American military action against the Soviets.\n\nU.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, through General Stilwell, privately made it clear that they preferred that the French not reacquire French Indochina (modern day Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos) after the war was over. Roosevelt offered Chiang control of all of Indochina. It was said that Chiang replied: \"Under no circumstances!\"\n\nAfter the war, 200,000 Chinese troops under General Lu Han were sent by Chiang Kai-shek to northern Indochina (north of the 16th parallel) to accept the surrender of Japanese occupying forces there, and remained in Indochina until 1946, when the French returned. The Chinese used the VNQDD, the Vietnamese branch of the Chinese Kuomintang, to increase their influence in Indochina and to put pressure on their opponents. Chiang Kai-shek threatened the French with war in response to maneuvering by the French and Ho Chi Minh's forces against each other, forcing them to come to a peace agreement. In February 1946 he also forced the French to surrender all of their concessions in China and to renounce their extraterritorial privileges in exchange for the Chinese withdrawing from northern Indochina and allowing French troops to reoccupy the region. Following France's agreement to these demands, the withdrawal of Chinese troops began in March 1946.\n\nDuring the Cairo Conference in 1943, Chiang said that Roosevelt asked him whether China would like to claim the Ryukyu Islands from Japan in addition to retaking Taiwan, the Pescadores, and Manchuria. Chiang claims that he said he was in favor of an international presence on the islands. However, the U.S. became the sole protector of the Ryukyus in 1945, and reverted it to the Japanese in 1972 while securing US military presence there.\n\nIn 1945, when Japan surrendered, Chiang's Chongqing government was ill-equipped and ill-prepared to reassert its authority in formerly Japanese-occupied China, and it asked the Japanese to postpone their surrender until Kuomintang (KMT) authority could arrive to take over. American troops and weapons soon bolstered KMT forces, allowing them to reclaim cities. The countryside, however, remained largely under Communist control.\n\nFor over a year after the Japanese surrender, rumors circulated throughout China that the Japanese had entered into a secret agreement with Chiang, in which the Japanese would assist the Nationalists in fighting the Communists in exchange for the protection of Japanese persons and property there. Many top nationalist generals, including Chiang, had studied and trained in Japan before the Nationalists had returned to the mainland in the 1920s, and maintained close personal friendships with top Japanese officers. The Japanese general in charge of all forces in China, General Yasuji Okamura, had personally trained officers who later became generals in Chiang's staff. Reportedly, General Okamura, before surrendering command of all Japanese military forces in Nanjing, offered Chiang control of all 1.5 million Japanese military and civilian support staff then present in China. Reportedly, Chiang seriously considered accepting this offer, but declined only in the knowledge that the United States would certainly be outraged by the gesture. Even so, armed Japanese troops remained in China well into 1947, with some noncommissioned officers finding their way into the Nationalist officer corps. That the Japanese in China came to regard Chiang as a magnanimous figure to whom many Japanese owed their lives and livelihoods was a fact attested by both Nationalist and Communist sources.\n\nWestad says the Communists won the Civil War because they made fewer military mistakes than Chiang Kai-Shek, and because in his search for a powerful centralized government, Chiang antagonized too many interest groups in China. Furthermore, his party was weakened in the war against Japan. Meanwhile, the Communists told different groups, such as peasants, exactly what they wanted to hear, and cloaked themselves in the cover of Chinese Nationalism.\n\nFollowing the war, the United States encouraged peace talks between Chiang and Communist leader Mao Zedong in Chongqing. Due to concerns about widespread and well-documented corruption in Chiang's government throughout his rule, the U.S. government limited aid to Chiang for much of the period of 1946 to 1948, in the midst of fighting against the People's Liberation Army led by Mao Zedong. Alleged infiltration of the U.S. government by Chinese Communist agents may have also played a role in the suspension of American aid.\n\nChiang's right-hand man, the secret police Chief Dai Li, was both anti-American and anti-Communist. Dai ordered Kuomintang agents to spy on American officers. Earlier, Dai had been involved with the Blue Shirts Society, a fascist-inspired paramilitary group within the Kuomintang, which wanted to expel Western and Japanese imperialists, crush the Communists, and eliminate feudalism. Dai Li died in a plane crash, which was suspected to be an assassination orchestrated by Chiang.\n\nAlthough Chiang had achieved status abroad as a world leader, his government deteriorated as the result of corruption and inflation. In his diary on June 1948, Chiang wrote that the KMT had failed, not because of external enemies but because of rot from within. The war had severely weakened the Nationalists, while the Communists were strengthened by their popular land-reform policies, and by a rural population that supported and trusted them. The Nationalists initially had superiority in arms and men, but their lack of popularity, infiltration by Communist agents, low morale, and disorganization soon allowed the Communists to gain the upper hand in the civil war.\n\nA new Constitution was promulgated in 1947, and Chiang was elected by the National Assembly as the first term President of the Republic of China on 20 May 1948. This marked the beginning of what was termed the \"democratic constitutional government\" period by the KMT political orthodoxy, but the Communists refused to recognize the new Constitution, and its government, as legitimate. Chiang resigned as President on 21 January 1949, as KMT forces suffered terrible losses and defections to the Communists. After Chiang's resignation the vice-president of the ROC, Li Zongren, became China's acting president.\n\nShortly after Chiang's resignation the Communists halted their advances and attempted to negotiate the virtual surrender of the ROC. Li attempted to negotiate milder terms that would have ended the civil war, but without success. When it became clear that Li was unlikely to accept Mao's terms, the Communists issued an ultimatum in April 1949, warning that they would resume their attacks if Li did not agree within five days. Li refused.\n\nLi's attempts to carry out his policies faced varying degrees of opposition from Chiang's supporters, and were generally unsuccessful. Chiang especially antagonized Li by taking possession of (and moving to Taiwan) US$200 million of gold and US dollars belonging to the central government that Li desperately needed to cover the government's soaring expenses. When the Communists captured the Nationalist capital of Nanjing in April 1949, Li refused to accompany the central government as it fled to Guangdong, instead expressing his dissatisfaction with Chiang by retiring to Guangxi.\n\nThe former warlord Yan Xishan, who had fled to Nanjing only one month before, quickly insinuated himself within the Li-Chiang rivalry, attempting to have Li and Chiang reconcile their differences in the effort to resist the Communists. At Chiang's request Yan visited Li in order to convince Li not to withdraw from public life. Yan broke down in tears while talking of the loss of his home province of Shanxi to the Communists, and warned Li that the Nationalist cause was doomed unless Li went to Guangdong. Li agreed to return under the condition that Chiang surrender most of the gold and US dollars in his possession that belonged to the central government, and that Chiang stop overriding Li's authority. After Yan communicated these demands and Chiang agreed to comply with them, Li departed for Guangdong.\n\nIn Guangdong, Li attempted to create a new government composed of both Chiang supporters and those opposed to Chiang. Li's first choice of premier was Chu Cheng, a veteran member of the Kuomintang who had been virtually driven into exile due to his strong opposition to Chiang. After the Legislative Yuan rejected Chu, Li was obliged to choose Yan Xishan instead. By this time Yan was well known for his adaptability and Chiang welcomed his appointment.\n\nConflict between Chiang and Li persisted. Although he had agreed to do so as a prerequisite of Li's return, Chiang refused to surrender more than a fraction of the wealth that he had sent to Taiwan. Without being backed by gold or foreign currency, the money issued by Li and Yan quickly declined in value until it became virtually worthless.\n\nAlthough he did not hold a formal executive position in the government, Chiang continued to issue orders to the army, and many officers continued to obey Chiang rather than Li. The inability of Li to coordinate KMT military forces led him to put into effect a plan of defense that he had contemplated in 1948. Instead of attempting to defend all of southern China, Li ordered what remained of the Nationalist armies to withdraw to Guangxi and Guangdong, hoping that he could concentrate all available defenses on this smaller, and more easily defensible, area. The object of Li's strategy was to maintain a foothold on the Chinese mainland in the hope that the United States would eventually be compelled to enter the war in China on the Nationalist side.\n\nChiang opposed Li's plan of defense because it would have placed most of the troops still loyal to Chiang under the control of Li and Chiang's other opponents in the central government. To overcome Chiang's intransigence Li began ousting Chiang's supporters within the central government. Yan Xishan continued in his attempts to work with both sides, creating the impression among Li's supporters that he was a \"stooge\" of Chiang, while those who supported Chiang began to bitterly resent Yan for his willingness to work with Li. Because of the rivalry between Chiang and Li, Chiang refused to allow Nationalist troops loyal to him to aid in the defense of Kwangsi and Canton, with the result that Communist forces occupied Canton in October 1949.\n\nAfter Canton fell to the Communists, Chiang relocated the government to Chungking, while Li effectively surrendered his powers and flew to New York for treatment of his chronic duodenum illness at the Hospital of Columbia University. Li visited the President of the United States, Harry S. Truman, and denounced Chiang as a dictator and an usurper. Li vowed that he would \"return to crush\" Chiang once he returned to China. Li remained in exile, and did not return to Taiwan.\n\nIn the early morning of 10 December 1949, Communist troops laid siege to Chengtu, the last KMT-controlled city in mainland China, where Chiang Kai-shek and his son Chiang Ching-kuo directed the defense at the Chengtu Central Military Academy. Chiang Kai-shek, father and son, sang the Republic of China's national anthem while leaving the Academy all the way to the airfield. The aircraft \"May-ling\" evacuated them to Taiwan on the same day. Chiang Kai-shek would never return to the mainland.\n\nChiang did not re-assume the presidency until 1 March 1950. On January 1952, Chiang commanded the Control Yuan, now in Taiwan, to impeach Li in the \"Case of Li Zongren's Failure to carry out Duties due to Illegal Conduct\" (李宗仁違法失職案). Chiang relieved Li of the position as vice-president in the National Assembly on March 1954.\n\nChiang moved the government to Taipei, Taiwan, where he resumed his duties as President of the Republic of China on 1 March 1950. Chiang was reelected by the National Assembly to be the President of the Republic of China (ROC) on 20 May 1954, and again in 1960, 1966, and 1972. He continued to claim sovereignty over all of China, including the territories held by his government and the People's Republic, as well as territory the latter ceded to foreign governments, such as Tuva and Outer Mongolia. In the context of the Cold War, most of the Western world recognized this position and the ROC represented China in the United Nations and other international organizations until the 1970s.\n\nDuring his presidency on Taiwan, Chiang continued making preparations in order to take back mainland China. He developed the ROC army in order to prepare for an invasion of the mainland, and to defend Taiwan in case of an attack by the Communist forces. He also financed armed groups in mainland China, such as Muslim soldiers of the ROC Army left in Yunnan under Li Mi, who continued to fight. It was not until the 1980s that these troops were finally airlifted to Taiwan. He promoted the Uyghur Yulbars Khan to Governor during the Islamic insurgency on the mainland for resisting the Communists, even though the government had already evacuated to Taiwan. He planned an invasion of the mainland in 1962. In the 1950s Chiang's airplanes dropped supplies to Kuomintang Muslim insurgents in Amdo.\n\nDespite the democratic constitution, the government under Chiang was a one-party state, consisting almost completely of mainlanders; the \"Temporary Provisions Effective During the Period of Communist Rebellion\" greatly enhanced executive powers, and the goal of retaking mainland China allowed the KMT to maintain a monopoly on power and the prohibition of opposition parties. The government's official line for these martial law provisions stemmed from the claim that emergency provisions were necessary, since the Communists and KMT were still in a state of war. Seeking to promote Chinese nationalism, Chiang's government actively ignored and suppressed local cultural expression, even forbidding the use of local languages in mass media broadcasts or during class sessions.\n\nThe first decades after the Nationalists moved the seat of government to the province of Taiwan are associated with the organized effort to resist Communism known as the \"White Terror\", during which about 140,000 Taiwanese were imprisoned for their real or perceived opposition to the Kuomintang. Most of those prosecuted were labeled by the Kuomintang as \"bandit spies\" (匪諜), meaning spies for Chinese Communists, and punished as such.\n\nUnder Chiang, the government recognized limited civil and economic freedoms, property rights (personal and intellectual) and other liberties. Despite these restrictions, free debate within the confines of the legislature was permitted. Under the pretext that new elections could not be held in Communist-occupied constituencies, the National Assembly, Legislative Yuan, and Control Yuan members held their posts indefinitely. The Temporary Provisions also allowed Chiang to remain as president beyond the two-term limit in the Constitution. He was reelected by the National Assembly as president four times—doing so in 1954, 1960, 1966, and 1972.\n\nBelieving that corruption and a lack of morals were key reasons that the KMT lost mainland China to the Communists, Chiang attempted to purge corruption by dismissing members of the KMT accused of graft. Some major figures in the previous mainland Chinese government, such as H. H. Kung and T. V. Soong, exiled themselves to the United States. Although politically authoritarian and, to some extent, dominated by government-owned industries, Chiang's new Taiwanese state also encouraged economic development, especially in the export sector. A popular sweeping Land Reform Act, as well as American foreign aid during the 1950s, laid the foundation for Taiwan's economic success, becoming one of the Four Asian Tigers.\n\nAfter Chiang's death, the next president, Chiang's son, Chiang Ching-kuo, and Chiang Ching-kuo's successor, Lee Teng-hui a native Taiwanese, would, in the 1980s and 1990s, increase native Taiwanese representation in the government and loosen the many authoritarian controls of the early era of ROC control in Taiwan.\n\nIn 1971, the Australian Opposition Leader Gough Whitlam, who became Prime Minister in 1972 and swiftly relocated the Australian mission from Taipei to Beijing, visited Japan. After meeting with the Japanese Prime Minister, Eisaku Sato, Whitlam observed that the reason Japan at that time was hesitant to withdraw recognition from the Nationalist government was \"the presence of a treaty between the Japanese government and that of Chiang Kai-shek\". Sato explained that the continued recognition of Japan towards the Nationalist government was due largely to the personal relationship that various members of the Japanese government felt towards Chiang. This relationship was rooted largely in the generous and lenient treatment of Japanese prisoners-of-war by the Nationalist government in the years immediately following the Japanese surrender in 1945, and was felt especially strongly as a bond of personal obligation by the most senior members then in power.\n\nAlthough Japan recognized the People's Republic in 1972, shortly after Kakuei Tanaka succeeded Sato as Prime Minister of Japan, the memory of this relationship was strong enough to be reported by \"The New York Times\" (15 April 1978) as a significant factor inhibiting trade between Japan and the mainland. There is speculation that a clash between Communist forces and a Japanese warship in 1978 was caused by Chinese anger after Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda attended Chiang's funeral. Historically, Japanese attempts to normalize their relationship with the People's Republic were met with accusations of ingratitude in Taiwan.\n\nChiang was suspicious that covert operatives of the United States plotted a coup against him. In 1950, Chiang Ching-kuo became director of the secret police (Bureau of Investigation and Statistics), which he remained until 1965. Chiang was also suspicious of politicians who were overly friendly to the United States, and considered them his enemies. In 1953, seven days after surviving an assassination attempt, Wu Kuo-chen lost his position as governor of Taiwan Province to Chiang Ching-kuo. After fleeing to United States the same year, he became a vocal critic of Chiang's family and government.\n\nChiang Ching-kuo, educated in the Soviet Union, initiated Soviet-style military organization in the Republic of China Military. He reorganized and Sovietized the political officer corps, and propagated Kuomintang ideology throughout the military. Sun Li-jen, who was educated at the American Virginia Military Institute, was opposed to this.\n\nChiang Ching-kuo orchestrated the controversial court-martial and arrest of General Sun Li-jen in August 1955, for plotting a coup d'état with the American Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) against his father Chiang Kai-shek and the Kuomintang. The CIA allegedly wanted to help Sun take control of Taiwan and declare its independence.\n\nIn 1975, 26 years after Chiang came to Taiwan, he died in Taipei at the age of 87. He had suffered a heart attack and pneumonia in the foregoing months and died from renal failure aggravated with advanced cardiac malfunction on April 5.\n\nA month of mourning was declared. Chinese music composer Hwang Yau-tai wrote the Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Song. In mainland China, however, Chiang's death was met with little apparent mourning and Communist state-run newspapers gave the brief headline \"Chiang Kai-shek Has Died.\" Chiang's body was put in a copper coffin and temporarily interred at his favorite residence in Cihu, Daxi, Taoyuan. When his son Chiang Ching-kuo died in 1988, he was entombed in a separate mausoleum in nearby Touliao (頭寮). The hope was to have both buried at their birthplace in Fenghua if and when it was possible. In 2004, Chiang Fang-liang, the widow of Chiang Ching-kuo, asked that both father and son be buried at Wuzhi Mountain Military Cemetery in Xizhi, Taipei County (now New Taipei City). Chiang's ultimate funeral ceremony became a political battle between the wishes of the state and the wishes of his family.\n\nChiang was succeeded as President by Vice President Yen Chia-kan and as Kuomintang party ruler by his son Chiang Ching-kuo, who retired Chiang Kai-shek's title of Director-General and instead assumed the position of Chairman. Yen's presidency was interim; Chiang Ching-kuo, who was the Premier, became President after Yen's term ended three years later.\n\nChiang's portrait hung over Tiananmen Square before Mao's portrait was set up in its place. People also put portraits of Chiang in their homes and in public on the streets.\n\nChiang was popular among many people and dressed in plain, simple clothes, unlike contemporary Chinese warlords who dressed extravagantly.\n\nQuotes from the Quran and Hadith were used by Muslims in the Kuomintang-controlled Muslim publication, the \"Yuehua\", to justify Chiang Kai-shek's rule over China.\n\nWhen the Muslim General and Warlord Ma Lin was interviewed, Ma Lin was described as having \"high admiration for and unwavering loyalty to Chiang Kai-shek\".\n\nIn the Philippines, a school was named in his honor in 1939. Today, Chiang Kai Shek College is the largest educational institution for the Chinoy community in the country.\n\nThe Kuomintang used traditional Chinese religious ceremonies, and promoted Martyrdom in Chinese culture. Kuomintang ideology promoted the view that the souls of Party martyrs who died fighting for the Kuomintang, the revolution, and the party founder Dr. Sun Yat-sen were sent to heaven. Chiang Kai-shek believed that these martyrs witnessed events on earth from heaven.\n\nWhen the Northern Expedition was complete, Kuomintang Generals led by Chiang Kai-shek paid tribute to Dr. Sun's soul in heaven with a sacrificial ceremony at the Xiangshan Temple in Beijing in July 1928. Among the Kuomintang Generals present were the Muslim Generals Bai Chongxi and Ma Fuxiang.\n\nChiang Kai-shek considered both the Han Chinese and all the minority peoples of China, the Five Races Under One Union, as descendants of Yellow Emperor, the Yellow Emperor and semi mythical founder of the Chinese nation, and belonging to the Chinese Nation Zhonghua Minzu and he introduced this into Kuomintang ideology, which was propagated into the educational system of the Republic of China.\n\nChiang's legacy has been the target of heated debates because of the different views held about him. For some, Chiang was a national hero who led the victorious Northern Expedition against the Beiyang Warlords in 1927, achieving Chinese unification, and who subsequently led China to ultimate victory against Japan in 1945. Some blamed him for not doing enough against the Japanese forces in the lead-up to, and during, the Second Sino-Japanese War, preferring to withhold his armies for the fight against the Communists, or merely waiting and hoping that the United States would get involved. Some also see him as a champion of anti-Communism, being a key figure during the formative years of the World Anti-Communist League. During the Cold War, he was also seen as the leader who led Free China and the bulwark against a possible Communist invasion. However, Chiang presided over purges, political authoritarianism, and graft during his tenure in mainland China, and ruled throughout a period of imposed martial law. His governments were accused of being corrupt even before he even took power in 1928. He also allied with known criminals like Du Yuesheng for political and financial gains. Some opponents charge that Chiang's efforts in developing Taiwan were mostly to make the island a strong base from which to one day return to mainland China, and that Chiang had little regard for the long-term prosperity and well-being of the Taiwanese people.\n\nToday, Chiang's popularity in Taiwan is divided along political lines, enjoying greater support among Kuomintang (KMT) supporters. He is generally unpopular among Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) voters and supporters who blame him for the thousands killed during the February 28 Incident and criticise his subsequent dictatorial rule. In sharp contrast to his son, Chiang Ching-kuo, and to Sun Yat-sen, his memory is rarely invoked by current political parties, including the Kuomintang. In contrast, his image has been rehabilitated in contemporary Mainland China. Until recently portrayed as a villain who fought against the \"liberation\" of China by the Communists, since the 2000s, he has been portrayed by the media in a neutral or slightly positive light as a Chinese nationalist who tried to bring about national unification and resisted the Japanese invasion during World War II. This shift is largely in response to current political landscape of Taiwan, in relation to Chiang's commitment to a unified China and his stance against Taiwanese separatism during his rule of the island, along with the recent détente between the Communist Party of China (CPC) and Chiang's KMT. In contrast to efforts to remove his public monuments in Taiwan, his ancestral home in Fenghua, Zhejiang on the Mainland has become a commemorative museum and major tourist attraction.\n\nIn the United States and Europe, Chiang was often perceived negatively as the one who lost China to the Communists. His constant demands for Western support and funding also earned him the nickname of \"General Cash-My-Check\". In the West he has been criticized for his poor military skills. He had a record of issuing unrealistic orders and persistently attempting to fight unwinnable battles, leading to the loss of his best troops.\n\nIn recent years, there has been an attempt to find a more moderate interpretation of Chiang. Chiang is now increasingly perceived as a man simply overwhelmed by the events in China, having to fight simultaneously Communists, Japanese, and provincial warlords while having to reconstruct and unify the country. His sincere, albeit often unsuccessful attempts to build a more powerful nation have been noted by scholars such as Jonathan Fenby and Rana Mitter. Mitter has observed that, ironically, today's China is closer to Chiang's vision than to Mao Zedong's. He argues that the Communists, since the 1980s, have essentially created the state envisioned by Chiang in the 1930s. Mitter concludes by writing that \"one can imagine Chiang Kai-shek's ghost wandering round China today nodding in approval, while Mao's ghost follows behind him, moaning at the destruction of his vision\". Liang Shuming opined that Chiang Kai-shek's \"greatest contribution was to make the CCP successful. If he had been a bit more trustworthy, if his character was somewhat better, the CCP would have been unable to beat him\".\n\n\"Formosa Betrayed\", one of the few American movies concerning the process of democratization in Taiwan, depicts Chiang Kai-shek as a brutal dictator, responsible for the execution of thousands of native Taiwanese during the days following the February 28 Incident.\n\nIn an arranged marriage, Chiang was married to a fellow villager named Mao Fumei. While married to Mao, Chiang adopted two concubines (concubinage was still a common practice for well-to-do, non-Christian males in China): he married Yao Yecheng (姚冶誠, 1889–1972) in 1912 and Chen Jieru (陳潔如, 1906–1971) in December 1921. While he was still living in Shanghai, Chiang and Yao adopted a son, Wei-kuo. Chen adopted a daughter in 1924, named Yaoguang (瑤光), who later adopted her mother's surname. Chen's autobiography refuted the idea that she was a concubine. Chen claiming that, by the time she married Chiang, he had already divorced Yao, and that Chen was therefore his wife. Chiang and Mao had a son, Ching-kuo.\n\nAccording to the memoirs of Chen Jieru, Chiang's second wife, she contracted gonorrhea from Chiang soon after their marriage. He told her that he acquired this disease after separating from his first wife and living with his concubine Yao Yecheng, as well as with many other women he consorted with. His doctor explained to her that Chiang had sex with her before completing his treatment for the disease. As a result, both Chiang and Ch'en Chieh-ju believed they had become sterile, which would explain why he had only one child, by his first wife; however, a purported miscarriage by Soong Mei-ling in August 1928 would, if it actually occurred, cast serious doubt on whether this was true.\n\nThe Xikou (Chikow) Chiangs were descended from Chiang Shih-chieh who during the 1600s (17th century) moved there from Fenghua district, whose ancestors in turn came to southeastern China's Zhejiang (Chekiang) province after moving out of Northern China in the 13th century AD. The 12th century BC Duke of Zhou's (Duke of Chou) third son was the ancestors of the Chiangs.\n\nHis great grandfather was Chiang Qi-zeng (Jiang Qizeng) 蒋祈增, his grandfather was Chiang Si-qian 蒋斯千, his uncle was Chiang Zhao-hai 蔣肇海, and his father was Chiang Zhao-cong (Jiang Zhaocong) 蔣肇聰.\n\nChiang personally dealt extensively with religions and power figures in China during his regime.\n\nChiang Kai-shek was born and raised as a Buddhist, but became a Methodist upon his marriage to his fourth wife, Soong Mei-ling, due to pressure from her mother.\n\nChiang developed relationships with other generals. Chiang became a sworn brother of the Chinese Muslim general Ma Fuxiang and appointed him to high ranking positions. Chiang addressed Ma Fuxiang's son Ma Hongkui as Shao Yun Shixiong Ma Fuxiang attended national leadership conferences with Chiang during battles against Japan. Ma Hongkui was eventually scapegoated for the failure of the Ningxia Campaign against the Communists, so he moved to the US instead of remaining in Taiwan with Chiang.\n\nWhen Chiang became President of China after the Northern Expedition, he carved out Ningxia and Qinghai out of Gansu province, and appointed Muslim generals as military governors of all three provinces: Ma Hongkui, Ma Hongbin, and Ma Qi. The three Muslim governors, known as Xibei San Ma (lit. \"the three Mas of the Northwest\"), controlled armies composed entirely of Muslims. Chiang called on the three and their suboordinates to wage war against the Soviet peoples, Tibetans, Communists, and the Japanese. Chiang continued to appoint Muslims as governors of the three provinces, including Ma Lin and Ma Fushou. Chiang's appointments, the first time that Muslims had been appointed as governors of Gansu, increased the prestige of Muslim officials in northwestern China. The armies raised by this \"Ma Clique\", most notably their Muslim cavalry, were incorporated into the KMT army. Chiang appointed a Muslim general, Bai Chongxi, as the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of China, which controlled the ROC military.\n\nChiang also supported the Muslim General Ma Zhongying, whom he had trained at Whampoa Military Academy during the Kumul Rebellion, in a Jihad against Jin Shuren, Sheng Shicai, and the Soviet Union during the Soviet Invasion of Xinjiang. Chiang designated Ma's Muslim army as the 36th Division (National Revolutionary Army) and gave his troops Kuomintang flags and uniforms. Chiang then supported Muslim General Ma Hushan against Sheng Shicai and the Soviet Union in the Xinjiang War (1937). All Muslim generals commissioned by Chiang in the National Revolutionary Army swore allegiance to him. Several, like Ma Shaowu and Ma Hushan were loyal to Chiang and Kuomintang hardliners.\n\nThe Ili Rebellion and Pei-ta-shan Incident plagued relations with the Soviet Union during Chiang's rule and caused trouble with the Uyghurs. During the Ili Rebellion and Peitashan incident, Chiang deployed Hui troops against Uyghur mobs in Turfan, and against Soviet Russian and Mongols at Peitashan.\n\nDuring Chiang's rule, attacks on foreigners by Kuomintang forces flared up in several incidents. One of these was the Battle of Kashgar (1934) where a Muslim army loyal to the Kuomintang massacred 4,500 Uyghurs, and killed several British at the British consulate in Kashgar. The British were unable to retaliate.\n\nHu Songshan, a Muslim Imam, backed Chiang Kai-shek's regime and gave prayers for his government. ROC flags were saluted by Muslims in Ningxia during prayer along with exhortations to nationalism during Chiang's rule. Chiang sent Muslim students abroad to study at places like Al Azhar and Muslim schools throughout China taught loyalty to his regime.\n\nThe Yuehua, a Chinese Muslim publication, quoted the Quran and Hadith to justify submitting to Chiang Kai-shek as the leader of China, and as justification for Jihad in the war against Japan.\n\nThe Yihewani (Ikhwan al Muslimun a.k.a. Muslim brotherhood) was the predominant Muslim sect backed by the Chiang government during Chiang's regime. Other Muslim sects, like the Xidaotang and Sufi brotherhoods like Jahriyya and Khuffiya were also supported by his regime. The Chinese Muslim Association, a pro-Kuomintang and anti-Communist organization, was set up by Muslims working in his regime. Salafism attempted to gain a foothold in China during his regime, but the Yihewani and Hanafi Sunni Gedimu denounced the Salafis as radicals, engaged in fights against them, and declared them heretics, forcing the Salafis to form a separate sect. Ma Ching-chiang, a Muslim General, served as an advisor to Chiang Kai-shek. Ma Buqing was another Muslim General who fled to Taiwan along with Chiang. His government donated money to build the Taipei Grand Mosque on Taiwan.\n\nChiang had uneasy relations with the Tibetans. He fought against them in the Sino-Tibetan War, and he supported the Muslim General Ma Bufang in his war against Tibetan rebels in Qinghai. Chiang ordered Ma Bufang to prepare his Islamic army to invade Tibet several times, to deter Tibetan independence, and threatened them with aerial bombardment. After the war, Chiang appointed Ma Bufang as ambassador to Saudi Arabia.\n\nChiang incorporated Methodist values into the New Life Movement under the influence of his wife. Dancing and Western music were discouraged. In one incident, several youths splashed acid on people wearing Western clothing, although Chiang was not directly responsible for these incidents. Despite being a Methodist, he made reference to the Buddha in his diary, and encouraged the establishment of a Buddhist political party under Master Taixu.\n\nAccording to Jehovah's Witnesses some of their members travelled to Chonqqing and spoke to him personally while distributing their literature there during the Second World War.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59150265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59150265", "title": "Chief Running Deer", "text": "Chief Running Deer\n\nChief Running Deer may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "43925200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43925200", "title": "Elaine King", "text": "Elaine King\n\nElaine King is a Certified Financial Planner, writer and motivational speaker born in Lima, Perú. She lives in Miami. King has focused her career in financial education for families. She is the author of six financial planning books for parents, teens, children and immigrants.\n\nKing completed post graduate studies in Family therapy at the Bowen Center for the Study of the Family, Georgetown University.\n\nShe also has an International Business Degree from St. Mary's University and an International MBA from Thunderbird School of Global Management\n\nShe is a Certified Financial Planner, Florida Supreme Court Family Mediator, Certificate Family Business Advisor (Family Firm Institute) and Certified Divorce Financial Analyst (Institute of Certified Divorce Financial Analysts)\n\nFrom 1996 to 2000, King was Investment Advisory Service Manager at Salomon Smith Barney (Citigroup)\n\nShe was Investment Manager of the Royal Bank of Scotland's Coutts (Latin America Division) until 2004; then, she became Director of Gibraltar Private Bank & Trust's Wealth and Well-Being Planning Institute. She worked there until 2011.\n\nIn 2010 King published her first book, \"Family & Money Matters – Life lessons for the new generation\".\n\nFrom 2010 to 2012 King served on the Collaborative Family Law Institute Board, and in 2011 was managing director of The Lubitz Financial Group.\n\nShe won the Tumi USA award in 2011, which recognizes outstanding Peruvian immigrants.\n\nHer second book, \"Family and Money, Made Easy!\", was published in 2012. The book received an International Latino Book Award in the Best Parent / Family Book category. She wrote two books in 2013: \"Tu plan de vida en Estados Unidos ¡Hecho fácil!\" and \"Saltarín\", a book that teaches children 4 to 8 years old the importance of planning.\n\nShe was Vice President of Bessemer Trust Group during 2012 and 2013. From 2014 to 2016 was Partner and Director of Family Education & Governance at WE Family Offices, providing consulting services for families seeking to address communication and economic issues. In 2016 was member of the Miami Advisory Committee at the Family Firm Institute. King is member of the board of OWIT (Organization of Women in International Trade) South Florida.\n\nIn 2017, she was chosen as one of the 25 Most Powerful Women by People en Español.\n\nShe speaks at conferences related to family financial planning and financial education.\n\n\nShe participated on interviews for CNN (Spanish), ABC, CBS, Univision, Telemundo, Mega TV, NTN24, RPP Noticias, Canal N, Andina de Televisión y Noticias Caracol.\n\nKing has been quoted in The Wall Street Journal, Fox Business, NASDAQ, MarketWatch (Dow Jones & Co.) and Financial Advisor. She also writes regularly for American Student Assistance, the CFP Board of Standard blog, Gana Más Magazine, El Comercio (Perú), Revista Dinero and El Peruano,\n\nShe was interviewed as \"Mujer del Mes\" (Woman of the Month) in \"Vanidades\" Magazine, El Comercio, Diario Gestion and La República (Perú).\n\n"}
{"id": "1351497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1351497", "title": "Elizaphan Ntakirutimana", "text": "Elizaphan Ntakirutimana\n\nElizaphan Ntakirutimana (1924, in Kibuye, Rwanda – January 22, 2007 in Arusha, Tanzania) was a pastor of the Seventh-day Adventist Church in Rwanda and was the first clergyman to be convicted for a role in the 1994 Rwandan genocide.\n\nIn February 2003, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda found both Ntakirutimana and his son Dr. Gérard, a physician who had completed graduate work in the US prior to returning to Rwanda, guilty of genocide committed in Rwanda in 1994. The Tribunal found it proven beyond reasonable doubt that Ntakirutimana, himself belonging to the Hutu ethnicity, had transported armed attackers to the Mugonero complex, where they killed hundreds of Tutsi refugees. Ntakirutimana was sentenced to 10 years in prison. He was convicted on the basis of eyewitness accounts. A number of the convictions were overturned on appeal but the sentence was unchanged. He was released on December 6, 2006 after serving 10 years under arrest or in prison, and died the following month.\n\nA letter addressed to Ntakirutimana by Tutsi Seventh-day Adventist pastors, which he showed to author Philip Gourevitch, provided the title for Gourevitch's 1998 book \"We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will Be Killed With Our Families\". The book accuses Ntakirutimana of complicity in the deaths of the refugees.\n\nElizaphan Ntakirutimana died on January 22, 2007, aged 82.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21851969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21851969", "title": "Esopus people", "text": "Esopus people\n\nThe Esopus tribe (pr. es-SOAP-es) was a tribe of Lenape (Delaware) Native Americans who were native to Upstate New York, specifically the region of the Catskill Mountains. Their lands included modern-day Ulster and Sullivan counties.\n\nThe tribe fought a series of conflicts against settlers from the New Netherland colony from September 1659 to September 1663, known as the Esopus Wars, in and around Kingston, New York. At the conclusion of the conflict, the tribe sold large tracts of land to French Huguenot refugees in New Paltz and other communities.\n\nDescendants of the Esopus tribe now live on the Stockbridge-Munsee Community reservation in Shawano County, Wisconsin and among the Munsee Delaware of Ontario, Canada. Historians believe surviving Esopus joined with the Ramapough Mountain Indians of New Jersey following the wars, as well as some Wappinger people after Kieft's War in 1643.\n\n"}
{"id": "51235755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51235755", "title": "Ezinne Akudo", "text": "Ezinne Akudo\n\nEzinne Akudo Anyaoha (born 17 May 1990) is a Nigerian lawyer and beauty queen.\n\nAkudo was born in Imo State and completed her education at Abia State University. Ezinne Akudo Anyaoha was crowned Miss Nigeria in July, 2013.\n\nShe's also an Alumni from Federal Government Girls' College,Owerri Imo State. \n\nIn 2015, she was called to bar and set up a rape crisis center through her non-governmental organization; \"The Eight Foundation\" based in Lagos, Nigeria. She has also been active in campaigning against sexual violence.\n"}
{"id": "11285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11285", "title": "Francisco I. Madero", "text": "Francisco I. Madero\n\nFrancisco Ignacio Madero González (; 30 October 1873 – 22 February 1913) was a Mexican revolutionary, writer and statesman who served as the 33rd president of Mexico from 1911 until his assassination in 1913. He was an advocate for social justice and democracy. Madero was notable for challenging Mexican President Porfirio Díaz for the presidency in 1910 and being instrumental in sparking the Mexican Revolution.\n\nBorn into an extremely wealthy landowning family in northern Mexico, Madero was an unusual politician, who until he ran for president in the 1910 elections, had never held office. In his 1908 book entitled \"The Presidential Succession in 1910\", Madero called on voters to prevent the sixth reelection of Porfirio Díaz, which Madero considered anti-democratic. His vision would lay the foundation for a democratic, 20th-century Mexico, but without polarizing the social classes. To that effect, he bankrolled the Anti-Reelectionist Party (later the Progressive Constitutional Party) and urged Mexicans to rise up against Díaz, which ignited the Mexican Revolution in 1910.\n\nMadero's candidacy against Díaz garnered widespread support in Mexico, since he was possessed of independent financial means, ideological determination, and the bravery to oppose Díaz when it was dangerous to do so. Arrested by the dictatorship shortly after being declared presidential candidate by his party, the opposition leader escaped from prison and launched the Plan of San Luis Potosí from the United States, in this manner beginning the Mexican Revolution.\n\nFollowing the resignation of Díaz from the presidency on 25 May 1911 after the signing of the Treaty of Ciudad Juárez, Madero became the highest political leader of the country. Known as \"Maderistas\", Madero's followers referred to him as the \"caudillo de la Revolución\" (leader of the Revolution). He was elected president on 15 October 1911 by almost 90% of the vote. Sworn into office on 6 November 1911, he became one of Mexico's youngest elected presidents, having just turned 38. Despite his considerable popularity amongst the people, Madero's administration soon encountered opposition both from more radical revolutionaries and from remnants of the former regime.\n\nIn February 1913, a military coup took place in the Mexican capital led by General Victoriano Huerta, the military commander of the city, and supported by the United States ambassador. Madero was arrested and a short time later assassinated along with his Vice-President, José María Pino Suárez, on 22 February 1913, following the series of events known as the Ten Tragic Days (la \"Decena Trágica\"). The death of Madero and Pino Suárez led to a national and international outcry which eventually paved the way for the fall of the Huerta Dictatorship, the triumph of the Mexican Revolution and the establishment of the 1917 Constitution of Mexico under \"Maderista\" President Venustiano Carranza.\n\nMadero was born in the hacienda of El Rosario, in Parras de la Fuente, Coahuila, the first son of Francisco Ignacio Madero Hernández and Mercedes González Treviño, and the first grandson of family patriarch, Evaristo Madero, governor of Coahuila. He was sickly as a child, and was small in stature as an adult. It is widely believed that Madero's middle initial, I, stood for Indalecio, but according to his birth certificate it stood for Ygnacio. \n\nHis family has been described as one of the five wealthiest families in Mexico. His grandfather, Evaristo Madero, started as a founder of a regional carting business, but he took advantage of economic opportunity and transported cotton from Texas during the U.S. Civil War. Having built a diversified fortune, but before his real success, he first married Rafaela Hernández Lombraña, half-sister of the powerful miner and banker Antonio V. Hernández. Alongside his brother in law, and other of his new political family's relations, he founded the \"Compañía Industrial de Parras\", initially involved in vineyards, cotton, and textiles, and later also in mining, cotton mills, ranching, banking, coal, guayule rubber, and foundries in the later part of the nineteenth century. For many years, the family prospered during Porfirio Díaz's regime, and by 1910 the family was one of richest in Mexico, worth 30 million pesos ($15 million U.S. dollars of the day, and almost $500 million U.S. dollars in today's money). After widowing from his first wife, and having built his success, he remarried to doña Manuela de Farías Benavides, member of one of northern Mexico's most aristocratic families, daughter of don Juan Francisco de Farías, mayor of Laredo. Evaristo Madero also served as governor of Coahuila from 1880 to 1884, during the four-year interregnum of Porfirio Díaz's rule, but was permanently sidelined from political office when Díaz returned to the presidency in 1884 and served until 1911. From both his wives, Evaristo Madero produced a total of 18 children, 14 of which would survive until adulthood, and whose descendants make up some of Mexico's most influential families until this day. Thus, young Francisco was a member of a huge and powerful northern Mexican family with long-standing issues with the Díaz regime.\n\nFrancisco and his brother Gustavo A. Madero attended the Jesuit college in Saltillo, but his early Catholic education had little lasting impact. Instead, his father's subscription to the magazine \"Revue Spirite\" awakened in the young Madero an interest in Spiritism, an offshoot of Spiritualism. As a young man, Madero's father sent him to the École des Hautes Études Commerciales de Paris (HEC). During his time in Paris, Madero made a pilgrimage to the tomb of Allan Kardec, the founder of Spiritism, and became a passionate advocate of the belief, soon coming to believe he was a medium. He then attended high school at Culver Academies. Following business school, Madero traveled to the University of California, Berkeley to study agricultural techniques and to improve his English. During his time there, he was influenced by the theosophist ideas of Annie Besant, which were prominent at nearby Stanford University.\n\nIn 1893, the 20-year-old Madero returned to Mexico and assumed management of the Madero family's hacienda at San Pedro, Coahuila. Well traveled and well educated, he was now in robust health. He installed new irrigation, introduced American cotton, and built a soap factory and also an ice factory. He embarked on a lifelong commitment to philanthropy. His employees were well paid and received regular medical exams; he built schools, hospitals, and community kitchens; and he paid to support orphans and award scholarships. He also taught himself homeopathy and offered medical treatments to his employees. Francisco became increasingly engaged with Spiritism and in 1901 was convinced that the spirit of his brother Raúl, who had died at age 4, was communicating with him, urging him to do charity work and practice self-discipline and self-abnegation. Madero became a vegetarian and stopped drinking alcohol and smoking.\n\nAlready well-connected to a wealthy family and now well-educated in business, he built a personal fortune of 500,000 by 1899. The family was organized on patriarchal principles, so that even though young Francisco was wealthy in his own right, his father and especially his grandfather Evaristo viewed as someone who should be under the authority of his elders. As the eldest sibling, Francisco exercised authority over his younger brothers and sisters. In January 1903, he married Sara Pérez, first in a civil ceremony, and then a Catholic nuptial mass celebrated by the archbishop. From all accounts it was a happy marriage, but they had no children.\n\nOn 2 April 1903, Bernardo Reyes, governor of Nuevo León, violently crushed a political demonstration, an example of the increasingly authoritarian policies of president Porfirio Díaz. Madero was deeply moved and, believing himself to be receiving advice from the spirit of his late brother Raúl, he decided to act. The spirit of Raúl told him, \"Aspire to do good for your fellow citizens...working for a lofty ideal that will raise the moral level of society, that will succeed in liberating it from oppression, slavery, and fanaticism.\" Madero founded the Benito Juárez Democratic Club and ran for municipal office in 1904, though he lost the election narrowly. In addition to his political activities, Madero continued his interest in Spiritualism, publishing a number of articles under the pseudonym of Arjuna (a prince from the \"Mahabharata\").\n\nIn 1905, Madero became increasingly involved in opposition to the government of Porfirio Díaz. He organized political clubs and founded a political newspaper (\"El Demócrata\") and a satirical periodical (\"El Mosco\", \"The Fly\"). Madero's preferred candidate, Frumencio Fuentes, was defeated by that of Porfirio Díaz in the 1905 governmental elections. Díaz considered jailing Madero, but Bernardo Reyes suggested that Francisco's father be asked to control his increasingly political son.\n\nIn an interview with journalist James Creelman published in 17 February 1908 issue of \"Pearson's Magazine\", President Díaz said that Mexico was ready for a democracy and that the 1910 presidential election would be a free election.\n\nMadero spent the bulk of 1908 writing a book, which he believed was at the direction of spirits, now including that of Benito Juárez himself. This book, published in late 1908, was titled \"La sucesión presidencial en 1910\" (\"The Presidential Succession of 1910\"). The book quickly became a bestseller in Mexico. The book proclaimed that the concentration of absolute power in the hands of one man – Porfirio Díaz – for so long had made Mexico sick. Madero pointed out the irony that in 1871, Porfirio Díaz's political slogan had been \"No Re-election\". Madero acknowledged that Porfirio Díaz had brought peace and a measure of economic growth to Mexico. However, Madero argued that this was counterbalanced by the dramatic loss of freedom, including the brutal treatment of the Yaqui people, the repression of workers in Cananea, excessive concessions to the United States, and an unhealthy centralization of politics around the person of the president. Madero called for a return of the Liberal 1857 Constitution of Mexico. To achieve this, Madero proposed organizing a Democratic Party under the slogan \"Sufragio efectivo, no reelección\" (\"Valid Voting, No Re-election\"). Porfirio Díaz could either run in a free election or retire.\n\nMadero's book was well received, and widely read. Many people began to call Madero \"the Apostle of Democracy\". Madero sold off much of his property – often at a considerable loss – in order to finance anti-re-election activities throughout Mexico. He founded the Anti-Re-election Center in Mexico City in May 1909, and soon thereafter lent his backing to the periodical \"El Antirreeleccionista\", which was run by the young lawyer/philosopher José Vasconcelos and another intellectual, Luis Cabrera Lobato. In Puebla, Aquiles Serdán, from a politically engaged family, contacted Madero and as a result, formed an Anti-Re-electionist Club to organize particularly among working class Mexicans for the 1910 elections. Madero traveled throughout Mexico giving anti-reelectionist speeches, and everywhere he went he was greeted by crowds of thousands. His candidacy cost him financially, since he sold much of his property at a loss to back his campaign.\n\nIn spite of the attacks by Madero and his earlier statements to the contrary, Díaz ran for re-election. In a show of U.S. support, Díaz and William Howard Taft planned a summit in El Paso, Texas, and Ciudad Juárez, Mexico, for 16 October 1909, a historic first meeting between a Mexican and a U.S. president and also the first time a U.S. president would cross the border into Mexico. At the meeting, Diaz told John Hays Hammond, \"Since I am responsible for bringing several billion dollars in foreign investments into my country, I think I should continue in my position until a competent successor is found.\" The summit was a great success for Díaz, but it could have been a major tragedy. On the day of the summit, Frederick Russell Burnham, the celebrated scout, and Private C.R. Moore, a Texas Ranger, discovered a man holding a concealed palm pistol along the procession route and they disarmed the assassin within only a few feet of Díaz and Taft.\n\nThe Porfirian regime reacted to Madero by placing pressure on the Madero family's banking interests, and at one point even issued a warrant for Madero's arrest on the grounds of \"unlawful transaction in rubber\". Madero was not arrested, though, apparently in part to the intervention of Díaz's finance minister, José Ives Limantour, a friend of the Madero family. In April 1910, the Anti-Re-electionist Party met and selected Madero as their nominee for President of Mexico.\n\nDuring the convention, a meeting between Madero and Díaz was arranged by the governor of Veracruz, Teodoro Dehesa and took place in Díaz's residence on 16 April 1910. Only the candidate and the president were present for the meeting, so the only account of it is Madero's own in correspondence. A political solution and compromise might have been possible, with Madero withdrawing his candidacy. It became clear to Madero that Díaz was a decrepit old man, out of touch politically, and unaware of the extent of formal political opposition. The meeting was important for strengthening Madero's resolve that political compromise was not possible and he is quoted as saying \"Porfirio is not an imposing chief. Nevertheless, it will be necessary to start a revolution to overthrow him. But who will crush it afterwards?\" Madero was worried that Porfirio Díaz would not willingly relinquish office, warned his supporters of the possibility of electoral fraud and proclaimed that \"Force shall be met by force!\"\n\nMadero campaigned across the country on a message of reform and met with numerous supporters. Resentful of the \"peaceful invasion\" from the United States \"which came to control 90 percent of Mexico's mineral resources, its national railroad, its oil industry and, increasingly, its land,\" Mexico's poor and middle-class overwhelmingly showed their support for Madero. Fearful of a dramatic change in direction, on 6 June 1910, the Porfirian regime arrested Madero in Monterrey and sent him to a prison in San Luis Potosí. Approximately 5,000 other members of the Anti-Re-electionist movement were also jailed. Francisco Vázquez Gómez took over the nomination, but during Madero's time in jail, a fraudulent election was held that gave Díaz an unbelievably large margin of victory.\n\nMadero's father used his influence with the state governor and posted bond to give Madero the right to move about the city on horseback during the day. On 7 October 1910, Madero galloped away from his guards and took refuge with sympathizers in a nearby village. He was then smuggled across the U.S. border, hidden in a baggage car by sympathetic railway workers.\n\nMadero set up shop in San Antonio, Texas, and quickly issued his Plan of San Luis Potosí, which had been written during his time in prison, partly with the help of Ramón López Velarde. The plan proclaimed the elections of 1910 null and void, and called for an armed revolution to begin at 6 pm on 20 November 1910, against the \"illegitimate presidency/dictatorship of Díaz\". At that point, Madero declared himself provisional President of Mexico, and called for a general refusal to acknowledge the central government, restitution of land to villages and Indian communities, and freedom for political prisoners.\n\nThe family drew on resources to make regime change possible, with Madero's brother Gustavo A. Madero hiring the law firm of Washington lawyer Sherburne Hopkins, the \"world's best rigger of Latin American revolutions\" to foment support in the U.S. A strategy to discredit Díaz with U.S. business and the U.S. government did meet some success, with Standard Oil engaging in talks with Gustavo Madero, but more importantly, the U.S. government \"bent neutrality laws for the revolutionaries.\" The U.S. Senate held hearings in 1913 as to whether the U.S. had any role in fomenting revolution in Mexico, Hopkins gave testimony that \"he did not believe that it cost the Maderos themselves more than $400,000 gold\", with the aggregate cost being $1,500,000US.\n\nOn 20 November 1910, Madero arrived at the border and planned to meet up with 400 men raised by his uncle Catarino to launch an attack on Ciudad Porfirio Díaz (modern-day Piedras Negras, Coahuila). However, his uncle showed up late and brought only ten men. Madero decided to postpone the revolution. Instead, he and his brother Raúl (who had been given the same name as his late brother) traveled incognito to New Orleans, Louisiana.\n\nIn February 1911, Madero entered Chihuahua and led 130 men in an attack on Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. Madero was reported wounded in the fighting (although this was later denied) but was saved by his personal bodyguard and Revolutionary general Máximo Castillo. He spent the next several months as the head of the Mexican Revolution. Madero successfully imported arms from the United States, with the American government under William Howard Taft doing little to halt the flow of arms to the Mexican revolutionaries. By April the Revolution had spread to eighteen states, including Morelos where the leader was Emiliano Zapata.\nOn 1 April 1911, Porfirio Díaz claimed that he had heard the voice of the people of Mexico, replaced his cabinet, and agreed to restitution of the lands of the dispossessed. Madero did not believe this statement and instead demanded the resignation of President Díaz and Vice-President Ramón Corral. Madero then attended a meeting with the other revolutionary leaders – they agreed to a fourteen-point plan which called for pay for revolutionary soldiers; the release of political prisoners; and the right of the revolutionaries to name several members of cabinet. Madero was moderate, however. He believed that the revolutionaries should proceed cautiously so as to minimize bloodshed and should strike a deal with Díaz if possible. In May, Madero wanted a ceasefire, but his fellow revolutionaries Pascual Orozco and Francisco Villa disagreed and went ahead with an attack on Ciudad Juárez. The revolutionaries won this battle decisively and on 21 May 1911, the Treaty of Ciudad Juárez was signed.\n\nUnder the terms of the Treaty of Ciudad Juárez, Díaz and Corral agreed to resign by the end of May 1911, with Díaz's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Francisco León de la Barra, taking over as interim president solely for the purpose of calling general elections.\n\nThis first phase of the Mexican Revolution thus ended with Díaz leaving for exile in Europe at the end of May 1911. On 7 June 1911, Madero entered Mexico City in triumph where he was greeted with huge crowds shouting \"¡Viva Madero!\"\n\nAlthough Madero had forced Porfirio Díaz from power, he did not assume the presidency in June 1911. Instead, he pursued a moderate policy, leaving Francisco León de la Barra, one of Díaz's supporters, as president. He also left in place the Congress of Mexico, which was full of candidates whom Díaz had handpicked for the 1910 election.\n\nMadero now called for the disbanding of all revolutionary forces, arguing that the revolutionaries should henceforth proceed solely by peaceful means. In the south, revolutionary leader Emiliano Zapata was skeptical about disbanding his troops, especially since the Federal Army from the Díaz era remained essentially intact. However, Madero traveled south to meet with Zapata at Cuernavaca and Cuautla, Morelos. Madero assured Zapata that the land redistribution promised in the Plan of San Luis Potosí would be carried out when Madero became president.\n\nHowever, in Madero's absence, several landowners from Zapata's state of Morelos had appealed to President De la Barra and the Congress to restore their lands which had been seized by revolutionaries. They spread exaggerated stories of atrocities committed by Zapata's irregulars, calling Zapata the \"Attila of the South\". De la Barra and the Congress, therefore, decided to send regular troops under Victoriano Huerta to suppress Zapata's revolutionaries. Madero once again traveled south to urge Zapata to disband his supporters peacefully, but Zapata refused on the grounds that Huerta's troops were advancing on Yautepec de Zaragoza. Zapata's suspicions proved accurate as Huerta's Federals moved violently into Yautepec de Zaragoza. Madero wrote to De la Barra, saying that Huerta's actions were unjustified and recommending that Zapata's demands be met. However, when he left the south, he had achieved nothing. However, he promised the Zapatistas that once he became president, things would change. Most Zapatistas had grown suspicious of Madero, however.\n\nBefore becoming president, Madero published another book, this one under the pseudonym of Bhima (one of Arjuna's brothers in the \"Mahabharata\") called a \"Spiritualist Manual\".\n\nMadero became president in November 1911, and, intending to reconcile the nation, appointed a cabinet which included many of Porfirio Díaz's supporters. However, Madero was unable to achieve the reconciliation he desired since conservative Porfirians had managed to get themselves organized during the interim presidency of Francisco León de la Barra and now mounted a sustained and effective opposition to Madero's reform program. Conservative Porfirians in the Senate refused to pass the reforms he advocated. At the same time, several of Madero's allies denounced him for being overly reconciliatory with the Porfirians and with not moving aggressively forward with reforms: thus, on 25 November 1911, Emiliano Zapata issued his Plan of Ayala, denouncing Madero for being uninterested in pursuing land reform.\n\nAfter years of censorship, Mexican newspapers took advantage of their newly found freedom of the press to criticize Madero's performance as president harshly. Gustavo A. Madero, the president's brother, remarked that \"the newspapers bite the hand that took off their muzzle.\" Francisco Madero refused the recommendation of some of his advisors that he bring back censorship.\n\nThe press was particularly critical of Madero's handling of three rebellions that broke out against his rule shortly after he became president:\n\n(1) In December 1911, Bernardo Reyes (the popular general whom Porfirio Díaz had sent to Europe on a diplomatic mission because Díaz worried that Reyes was going to challenge him for the presidency) launched a rebellion in Nuevo León, where he had previously served as governor. Reyes' rebellion lasted only eleven days before Reyes surrendered at Linares, Nuevo León, and was sent to the Santiago Tlatelolco prison in Mexico City.\n(2) In March 1912, Madero's former general Pascual Orozco, who was personally resentful of how Madero had treated him, launched a rebellion in Chihuahua with the financial backing of Luis Terrazas, a former Governor of Chihuahua who was the largest landowner in Mexico. Madero despatched troops under General José González Salas to put down the rebellion, but they were initially defeated by Orozco's troops. General José González Salas committed suicide and Victoriano Huerta assumed control of the federalist forces. Huerta was more successful, defeating Orozco's troops in three major battles and forcing Orozco to flee to the United States in September 1912.\n\nRelations between Huerta and Madero grew strained during the course of this campaign when Pancho Villa, the commander of the \"División del Norte\", refused orders from General Huerta. Huerta ordered Villa's execution, but Madero commuted the sentence and Villa was sent to the same Santiago Tlatelolco prison as Reyes from which he escaped on Christmas Day 1912. Angry at Madero's commutation of Villa's sentence, Huerta, after a long night of drinking, mused about reaching an agreement with Orozco and together deposing Madero as president. When Mexico's Minister of War learned of General Huerta's comments, he stripped Huerta of his command, but Madero intervened and restored Huerta to command.\n\n(3) In October 1912, Félix Díaz (nephew of Porfirio Díaz) launched a rebellion in Veracruz, \"to reclaim the honor of the army trampled by Madero.\" This rebellion was quickly crushed and Félix Díaz was imprisoned. Madero was prepared to have Félix Díaz executed, but the Supreme Court of Mexico declared that Félix Díaz would be imprisoned, but not executed.\n\nBesides managing rebellions, Madero did have a number of accomplishments during his presidency:\n\n\nIn early 1913, Victoriano Huerta, the commander of the armed forces conspired with Félix Díaz (Porfirio Díaz's nephew), Bernardo Reyes, and US Ambassador Henry Lane Wilson against Madero, which culminated in a ten-day siege of La Ciudadela known as \"La decena tragica\" (the Tragic Ten Days). Madero accepted Huerta's \"protection\" from the Díaz/Reyes forces, only to be betrayed by Huerta and arrested. Madero's brother and advisor Gustavo A. Madero was kidnapped off the street, tortured, and killed. Following Huerta's coup d'état on 18 February 1913, Madero was forced to resign. After a 45-minute term of office, Pedro Lascuráin was replaced by Huerta, who took over the presidency later that day.\n\nFollowing his enforced resignation, Madero and his Vice-President José María Pino Suárez were kept under guard in the National Palace. On the evening of 22 February, they were told that they were to be transferred to the main city penitentiary, where they would be safer. At 11:15 pm, reporters waiting outside the National Palace saw two cars containing Madero and Suárez emerge from the main gate under a heavy escort commanded by Captain Francisco Cárdenas, an officer of the rurales. The journalists on foot were outdistanced by the motor vehicles, which were driven towards the penitentiary. The correspondent for the \"New York World\" was approaching the prison when he heard a volley of shots. Behind the building, he found the two cars with the bodies of Madero and Suárez nearby, surrounded by soldiers and gendarmes. Captain Cárdenas subsequently told reporters that the cars and their escort had been fired on by a group, as they neared the penitentiary. The two prisoners had leapt from the vehicles and ran towards their presumed rescuers. They had however been killed in the cross-fire. This account was treated with general disbelief, although the American ambassador Henry Lane Wilson, a strong supporter of Huerta, reported to Washington that, \"I am disposed to accept the (Huerta) government's version of the affair and consider it a closed incident\".\n\nPresident Madero, dead at 39, was buried quietly in the French cemetery of Mexico City. A series of contemporary photographs taken by Manuel Ramos show Maderos's coffin being carried from the penitentiary and placed on a special funeral tram car for transportation to the cemetery. Only his close family were permitted to attend, leaving for Cuba immediately after. Ambassador Wilson was later dismissed from his position after US president Woodrow Wilson took office. Following Huerta's overthrow, Francisco Cárdenas fled to Guatemala where he committed suicide in 1920 after the new Mexican government had requested his extradition to stand trial for the murder of Madero.\n\nOn the morning of 8 December 1914, Francisco \"Pancho\" Villa declared that the street leading from the Zócalo in Mexico City towards the Paseo de la Reforma would be named after Madero. Still officially called Francisco I. Madero Avenue, but commonly known simply as Madero street, it is one of the most popular and historically significant streets in the city. It was pedestrianised in 2009.\n\nMexican artist José Guadalupe Posada created an etching for a broadside, produced on the occasion of Madero's election in 1910, titled \"Calavera de Madero\" portraying Madero as a calavera.\n\nMadero appears in the films \"Viva Villa!\" (1934), \"Villa Rides\" (1968) and \"Viva Zapata!\" (1952).\n\nIn the novel \"The Friends of Pancho Villa\" (1996) by James Carlos Blake, Madero is a major character.\n\nPresident Madero has the unique distinction of being the first head of state in the world to ever fly in an airplane, which he did with the Wright Brothers in North Carolina on 30 November 1911. Despite the fact that Theodore Roosevelt beat him by a little over a year, Roosevelt was no longer president but was already succeeded by William H. Taft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1614182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1614182", "title": "Fredrick William Holiday", "text": "Fredrick William Holiday\n\nFrederick \"Ted\" William Holiday (1921–1979) was an English journalist, angler, cryptozoologist and wildlife specialist.\n\nMotivated by the early 1930s media reports, Holiday would dedicate the rest of his life to investigating the Loch Ness monster. In the 1960s, Holiday became a member of the Loch Ness Investigation Bureau. After several hundred hours of watching the Loch, Holiday claims that he reported four unidentified sightings. In his 1968 book, \"The Great Orm of Loch Ness\", Holiday postulated that the creature in the Loch was an invertebrate creature similar in form to the extinct \"Tullimonstrum gregarium\", but vastly larger.\n\nHoliday also claimed that he noticed several unusual coincidences, including camera malfunction during certain Nessie sightings. For example, in August 1968, even though there were several witnesses along the shore, \"Nessie\" chose to appear in one of the very few places that were obscured from the various cameras. Holiday reported, \"The observers were watchful and keen but they had seen nothing. The phenomenon had concealed itself so there was nothing for them to see.\"\n\nBy 1972, Holiday modified his initial hypothesis that the Loch Ness monster was a literal physical animal. In his second book, \"The Dragon and the Disc\", Holiday postulates that there are certain commonalities between paranormal phenomena and certain reported sightings on the Loch. Holiday also believed that there is a relationship between ancient dragon legends and contemporary UFO phenomena. Though he maintained in the book that he still believed that the monster was an invertebrate animal, there was a paranormal aspect to it reminiscent of ancient Water Horse legends which he could not fully explain.\n\nHis final work, \"The Goblin Universe\", was published posthumously and includes an introduction by Colin Wilson.\n\n"}
{"id": "8200141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8200141", "title": "Friedrich Kapp", "text": "Friedrich Kapp\n\nFriedrich Kapp (13 April 1824 – 27 October 1884) was a German-American lawyer, writer, and politician. He was an outspoken opponent of Germany's colonization fervor during his time as a National Liberal Reichstag deputy. This was exemplified in his speech to the annual Congress of German Economists. Kapp stressed both the unprofitability of colonies and their negative impact on Anglo-German relations.\n\nKapp was born in Hamm, Province of Westphalia, as the son of the Gymnasialdirektor Friedrich Kapp (1792–1866). He was the nephew of educator and philosopher Ernst Kapp (1801–1896) and of Christian Kapp (1798–1874), a philosopher and politician from Baden.\n\nIn New York, he married Luise Engels, the daughter of General Friedrich Ludwig C. Engels (1790–1855), commander of Cologne (1847–1855). His son, Wolfgang Kapp (1858–1922), was the nominal leader of the Kapp Putsch.\n\nKapp received his Abitur from Gymnasium “Hammonense”, the same educational institution where his father held the position of principal. Between 1842 and 1844, Kapp studied law and philosophy at the University of Heidelberg. There, at his uncle Christian Kapp's (1798–1874) house, he met the philosopher Ludwig Feuerbach. Not only did they become close friends; Feuerbach's criticism of religion, which also strongly influenced Karl Marx, had a great impact on Kapp's attitude towards life as well. Other acquaintances from his time as a student were Ludwig Bamberger (1823–1899), who would later become a banker, the author Berthold Auerbach (1812–1882) of Heidelberg and the poet Bettina von Arnim (1785–1859) of Berlin. From 1844 on, Kapp studied at the University of Berlin and voluntarily served in the army for one year. In Berlin, he was already working as a journalist for the utopian socialist magazine called \"Westfälisches Dampfboot\" (\"Westfalian Steamboat\").\n\nIn 1845, he returned to his hometown Hamm to work as an intern at the highest court of appeals in Westfalia and stayed there until 1848. In Hamm, he founded a reading circle where \"leftwing Hegelian intellectuals read foreign newspapers, which were not affected by Prussian censorship, as well as the texts of the Young Hegelians, and German and West European socialists.\" (Wehler)\n\nDuring his time at the High Court of Appeal in Hamm, Kapp was anything but popular: The court's president could only grant him access to the assessor's exam under certain conditions.\n\nThe uprisings of March 1848 in Germany prompted Kapp to go to Frankfurt to work as a journalist. His uncle, Christian Kapp, had become a member of the National Assembly in St. Paul’s Church over the intervening years. In Frankfurt, Kapp was also politically involved by working for the democratic-republican left. He became the first secretary of the Frankfurt Parliament.\n\nKapp worked as a political journalist in Frankfurt, but due to his involvement in the September Rebellion he had to flee to Brussels. There he worked as a private teacher for the son of Russian writer Alexander Herzen.\n\nFrom Brussels, he went to Paris where he continued to work for Herzen and translated two of his employer's books. In July 1849, the French police forced Herzen and Kapp to leave Paris. Both of them went to Geneva, where Kapp ran into an acquaintance of his, Ludwig Bamberger. In 1846 Kapp had first thought about emigrating to the USA, but not until he arrived in Geneva did he make the final decision to leave. He reached New York City in March 1850. Later, he married his fiancée Luise Engels, who had followed him to the United States soon afterwards.\n\nIn New York, Kapp joined the law firm of Zitz, Kapp and Froebel. Despite early successes, he found he had no liking for the law.\nStarting in 1852, Kapp worked as a journalist for the newly founded \"Atlantic Studies\". Their aim was to correct overly enthusiastic reports on the U.S. being circulated in Germany and also to show the darker side of American reality. Having become an American citizen in 1855, he was a lawyer until 1870 and worked as a foreign correspondent for the \"Kölnische Zeitung\", a newspaper in Cologne, Germany. He also wrote for the early numbers of the \"Nation\" of New York. From 1855, he was co-publisher of the \"New Yorker Abend-Zeitung\", a German newspaper in New York, and wrote several books about this flourishing country and the life of Germans in the United States. In politics, he associated with the Whigs.\n\nIn contrast to many other German-Americans, however, he always kept strong ties to his homeland. His loyalty towards Germany and his belief in a unified German state not only continued to dominate his own life but also the upbringing of his son Wolfgang.\n\nIn 1856, Kapp bought a house in Mansfield Square which was to become a popular location where the Germans of New York met to discuss literature and politics. After visiting Florida in 1852, he became a stout opponent of slavery in the southern states (abolitionism). Thus, in 1854, he not only wrote a book on the history of slavery in the United States, but even became a member of the Republican Party. In 1856 and in 1860 he actively campaigned for this party in presidential elections. In 1860, he was even nominated as an elector for Abraham Lincoln. Alongside Carl Schurz, he was one of the most prominent activists to win German-Americans over to the Union cause. In 1867, he became a member of the New York Board of Immigration. It was a position he held until he returned to Germany in 1870.\n\nAs a political writer he can be regarded as a pioneer of German-American historical science. He described the effects of German immigration on both countries, wrote the biographies of the generals Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben (1858) and Johann de Kalb (1862), and explored various American topics from a German point of view. Being very aware of his German identity, he wanted to show Americans the significance of German influence on the US. In a similar manner, he tried to convince his home country of its capability to form a unified German nation, using the achievements of German emigrants as a role model. In 1855, he described the fairly poor living conditions of his fellow Germans in the Texan colony of the \"Mainzer Adelsverein\". While still in the United States, the University of Bonn conferred an honorary degree of philosophy on him on 4 August 1868.\n\nAfter a general amnesty had been granted to political opponents, Kapp returned to Germany in April 1870 at the urging of German friends. As early as 21 October of that year he had become a Prussian citizen again. As such he was quickly able to become a city representative of Berlin in Otto von Bismarck’s German Empire in 1871/1872. From 1872-1877 and from 1881 to his death he was a Member of Parliament for the National Liberal Party in the German Reichstag. Apart from that he was also a representative of the regional parliament of Prussia from 1874-1877. In Berlin he also continued his work as a political writer.\n\nAs Kapp had always been in favor of a German Free State, he now pushed for a vigorous policy of settlement in the East in order to stop Germans from emigrating. At the same time he was engaged in developing uniform regulations for the consular system as well as for all kinds of emigration questions. His book \"Aus und über Amerika\" (Out of and about America) was published in Berlin in 1876. Its realism and candid opinions earned it unfavorable reviews in the United States.\n\nFellow party member and Member of Parliament Eduard Brockhaus encouraged Kapp to write a book on the history of the German book trade (\"Geschichte des deutschen Buchhandels\"). This was a very difficult task for Kapp, as it was not his area of expertise and there were insufficient published sources at the time. Therefore, Kapp first had to do intensive research in archives. To this end, Kapp visited the Plantin-Moretus Museum in Antwerpen in 1884, where he was able to study the \"Grand Livre de Francfort\", an important source about the book trade in general as well as the Frankfurt Book Fair. When Kapp died in Berlin later that year, he had just finished four chapters and outlined several others. Nevertheless, he was mentioned as author of the first of a total of four volumes.\n\n\n\"Note: Most biographical information translated from the German language article.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "357325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357325", "title": "Georgios Papandreou", "text": "Georgios Papandreou\n\nGeorgios Papandreou ( \"Geórgios Papandréou\"; 13 February 1888 – 1 November 1968) was a Greek politician, the founder of the Papandreou political dynasty. He served three terms as prime minister of Greece (1944–1945, 1963, 1964–1965). He was also deputy prime minister from 1950–1952, in the governments of Nikolaos Plastiras and Sofoklis Venizelos and served numerous times as a cabinet minister, starting in 1923, in a political career that spanned more than five decades.\n\nHe was born at Kalentzi, in the Achaea region of the northern Peloponnese. He was the son of Father Andreas Papandreou, an Orthodox archpriest (protopresvyteros). He studied law in Athens and political science in Berlin. His political philosophy was heavily influenced by German social democracy. As a result, he was adamantly opposed to the monarchy and supported generous social policies, but he was also extremely anti-communist (and specifically against the KKE's policies in Greece). As a young man, he became involved in politics as a supporter of the Liberal leader Eleftherios Venizelos, who made him governor of Chios after the Balkan War of 1912. One of his brothers, Nikos, was killed in the Battle of Kilkis-Lachanas.\n\nHe married twice. His first wife was Sofia Mineyko, a Polish national, daughter of Zygmunt Mineyko and paternal granddaughter of Stanislaw Mineyko (1802 - 1857). Their son Andreas Papandreou was born in Chios in 1919. His second wife was the actress Cybele Andrianou and their son was named George Papandreou.\n\nDuring the political crisis surrounding Greece's entry into World War I, Papandreou was one of Venizelos's closest supporters against the pro-German King Constantine I. When Venizelos was forced to flee Athens, Papandreou accompanied him to Crete, and then went to Lesbos, where he mobilised anti-monarchist supporters in the islands and rallied support for Venizelos's insurgent pro-Allied government in Thessaloniki. In 1921 he narrowly escaped assassination from royalist extremists.\n\nIn the 1920 general election, Papandreou unsuccessfully ran as an independent liberal in the Lesvos constituency. From January to October 1923, he served as interior minister in the cabinet of Stylianos Gonatas. In the December 1923 elections, he was elected as a Venizelist Liberal Party member of parliament for Lesvos, and served as finance minister for just 11 days in June 1925, education minister in 1930–1932 and transport minister in 1933. As minister of education he reformed the Greek school system and built many schools for the children of refugees of the Greco-Turkish War. In 1935, he set up the Democratic Socialist Party of Greece. A lifelong opponent of the Greek monarchy, he was exiled in 1936 by the Greek royalist dictator Ioannis Metaxas.\n\nFollowing the Axis occupation of Greece in World War II, he joined the predominantly Venizelist government-in-exile based in Egypt. With British support, King George II appointed him as PM and under his premiership took place the Lebanon conference (May 1944) and later the Caserta agreement (September 1944), in an attempt to stop the crisis in Greece and the conflicts between EAM and non-EAM forces, a prelude of the civil war. \n\nAfter the evacuation of Greece from the Axis powers, he entered Athens (October 1944) as Prime Minister of the Greek government-in-exile with some units of the Greek army and the allied British. During the same month, he became prime minister in the , which had succeed the Greek government-in-exile. He tried to normalize the highly polarized situation between the EAM and non-EAM forces, collaborating mainly with the General Ronald Scobie, who was under treaty responsible for all the Allied forces.\n\nAlthough he resigned in 1945, after the Dekemvriana events, he continued to hold high office. From 1946–1952 he served as labor minister, supplies minister, education minister, finance minister and public order minister. In 1950–1952, he was also deputy prime minister.\n\nThe 1952–1961 period was a very difficult one for Papandreou. The liberal political forces in Greece were gravely weakened by internal disputes and suffered electoral defeat from the conservatives. Papandreou continuously accused Sofoklis Venizelos for these maladies, considering his leadership dour and uninspiring.\n\nIn 1961, Papandreou revived Greek liberalism by founding the Center Union Party, a confederation of old liberal Venizelists and dissatisfied conservatives. After the elections of \"violence and fraud\" of 1961, Papandreou declared a \"Relentless Struggle\" against the right-wing ERE. Finally, his party won the elections of November 1963 and those of 1964, the second with a landslide majority. His progressive policies as premier aroused much opposition in conservative circles, as did the prominent role played by his son Andreas Papandreou, whose policies were seen as being considerably left of center. Andreas disagreed with his father on many important issues, and developed a network of political organizations, the Democratic Leagues (\"Dimokratikoi Syndesmoi\") to lobby for more progressive policies. He also managed to take control of the Center Union's youth organization, EDIN.\n\nPapandreou had opposed the Zürich and London Agreement which led to the foundation of the Republic of Cyprus. Following clashes between the Greek and Turkish communities, his government sent a Greek army division to the island.\n\nKing Constantine II openly opposed Papandreou's government, and there were frequent ultra-rightist plots in the Army, which destabilised the government. Finally the King engineered a split in the Centre Union and in July 1965, in a crisis known as the \"apostasia\" or \"Iouliana,\" he dismissed the government following a dispute over control of the Ministry of Defence. \n\nAfter the April 1967 military coup by the Colonels' junta led by George Papadopoulos, Papandreou was arrested. Papandreou died under house arrest in November 1968. His funeral became the occasion for a massive anti-dictatorship demonstration. He is interred at the First Cemetery of Athens, alongside his son Andreas.\n\nDuring the Junta and after his death he was often referred to affectionately as \"ο Γέρος της δημοκρατίας\" (\"o Géros tis dimokratías\", \"the old man of democracy\"). Since his grandson George A. Papandreou entered politics, most Greek writers use Γεώργιος (\"Geórgios\") to refer to the grandfather and the less formal Γιώργος (\"Giórgos\") to refer to the grandson.\n\nIn 1965, the University of Belgrade awarded him an honorary doctorate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1075153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1075153", "title": "Googie Withers", "text": "Googie Withers\n\nGeorgette Lizette Withers, CBE, AO (12 March 191715 July 2011), known professionally as Googie Withers, was a British entertainer who had a lengthy career in theatre, film, and television. She was a longtime resident of Australia with her husband, the actor John McCallum, with whom she often appeared. She was a well-known actress during the war and post-war years.\n\nWithers was born in Karachi, in British India (now in Pakistan) to Edgar Withers, a captain in the Royal Navy, and a Dutch-German mother, Zitette. She acquired the name \"Googie\" (Little Pigeon) at a young age from her \"ayah\" (nanny). As a child, she learned Urdu.\n\nHer father left the Royal Navy to manage a foundry in Birmingham, England, and Googie was sent to a boarding school near Dover.\n\nShe began acting at the age of twelve. A student at the Italia Conti Academy of Theatre Arts, she was a dancer in a West End production when she was offered work as a film extra in Michael Powell's \"The Girl in the Crowd\" (1935). She arrived on the set to find one of the major players in the production had been dismissed, and she was immediately asked to step into the role in her place.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Withers was constantly in demand in lead roles in minor films and supporting roles in more prestigious productions. She was in \"Windfall\" (1935), and was an extra in Powell's \"The Girl in the Crowd\" (1935) but wound up playing the second female lead.\n\nPowell used her a third time in \"The Love Test\" (1935) and she had the lead in \"All at Sea\" (1935). Withers supported in \"Dark World\" (1935), \"King of Hearts\" (1936), and \"Accused\" (1936). \"Her Last Affaire\" (1936) was her fourth film with Powell.\n\nWithers followed it with \"She Knew What She Wanted\" (1936), \"Crown v. Stevens\" (1936) (directed by Powell), \"Crime Over London\" (1936), \"Pearls Bring Tears\" (1937), \"Action for Slander\" (1937), and \"Paradise for Two\" (1937).\n\nShe had the lead in \"You're the Doctor\" (1938) and was back to support for \"Kate Plus Ten\" (1938). Her best known work of the period was as one of Margaret Lockwood's friends in Alfred Hitchcock's \"The Lady Vanishes\" (1938).\n\nWithers kept in support roles in \"Paid in Error\" (1938) and \"Strange Boarders\" (1938). She was in a Will Hay film \"Convict 99\" (1938) and supported Jack Buchanan in \"The Gang's All Here\" (1939). Then she appeared in crime films \"Murder in Soho\" (1939) and \"Dead Men are Dangerous\" (1939).\n\nShe supported George Formby in \"Trouble Brewing\" (1939) and Tommy Trinder in \"She Couldn't Say No\" (1939). She was in a Robert Montgomer film \"Busman's Honeymoon\" (1939) and was reunited with Buchanan in \"Bulldog Sees It Through\" (1940). She was still supporting comics in \"Back-Room Boy\" (1942) with Arthur Askey.\n\nAmong her successes of the 1940s, and a departure from her previous roles, was the Powell and Pressburger film \"One of Our Aircraft Is Missing\" (1942), a topical World War II drama in which she played a Dutch resistance fighter who helps British airmen return to safety from behind enemy lines.\n\nPowell and Pressburger then used her in a film they produced but did not direct, \"The Silver Fleet\" (1943). She played Helen, a significant second lead in the Clive Book directed 1944 comedy \"On Approval\".\n\nWithers was in \"They Came to a City\" (1945) directed by Basil Dearden. She was one of several stars in \"Dead of Night\" (1945).\n\nWithers was given a star part in \"Pink String and Sealing Wax\" (1945). It was well received and Withers was given the title role in \"The Loves of Joanna Godden\" (1947), which was a hit. In the cast was actor J. McCallum whom Withers later married. They remained married until McCallum died in 2010.\n\nWithers was then in \"It Always Rains on Sunday\" (1948) which was one of the biggest hits of the year. In 1948 British exhibitors voted her the 8th most popular British star in the country.\n\nWithers had a support role in the hugely popular \"Miranda\" (1948) with McCallum. Withers then made two comedies, both directed by Ralph Thomas: \"Once Upon a Dream\" (1949) and \"Traveller's Joy\" (1949). She had a good support role in \"Night and the City\" (1950) opposite Hollywood star Richard Widmark.\n\nWithers took 13 months off for the birth of her first child then returned to play a doctor in \"White Corridors\" (1951), one of the most popular films of the year in Britain. She was one of many cameos in \"The Magic Box\" (1951) and was in a play \"Winter Journey\".\n\nWithers made three films with her husband, \"Derby Day\" (1952), \"Devil on Horseback\" (1954), and \"Port of Escape\" (1956).\n\nWithers first toured Australia in the stage play \"Simon and Laura\". When McCallum was offered the position running J.C. Williamson theatres, they moved to Australia in 1959. Withers starred in a number of stage plays, including Rattigan's \"The Deep Blue Sea\", \"Desire of the Moth\", \"The First 400 Years\" (with Keith Michell), \"The Circle\", A. R. Gurney's \"The Cocktail Hour\", \"Time and the Conways\", \"The Importance of Being Earnest\", \"Beekman Place\" (for which she also designed the set) (1965), \"The Kingfisher\", \"Stardust\", Chekhov's \"The Cherry Orchard\" and Wilde's \"An Ideal Husband\" for the Melbourne Theatre Company; both productions toured Australia. They appeared together in the UK in \"The School for Scandal\" at the Duke of York's Theatre in London's West End and on the subsequent British Council tour of Europe in 1983–84 and in W. Somerset Maugham's \"The Circle\" at the Chichester Festival Theatre.\n\nWithers starred on Broadway with Michael Redgrave in \"The Complaisant Lover\" and in London with Alec Guinness in \"Exit the King\".\n\nWithers returned to films with the lead in \"Nickel Queen\" (1971), directed by McCallum.\n\nShe was in \"The Cherry Orchard\" (1974) on Australian TV.\n\nDuring the 1970s, she appeared as Faye Boswell, the governor of a women's prison, in the television series \"Within These Walls\". Because \"Within These Walls\" had been a moderate success in Australia, she was approached by producers to play the role of the Governor of the Wentworth Detention Centre in the later series \"Prisoner\", a job which she declined.\n\nWithers starred in the BBC adaptation of \"Hotel du Lac\" (1986), which was followed a year later by another BBC production of \"Northanger Abbey\".\n\nIn 1989 she appeared at Brighton in England in \"The Cocktail Hour\" alongside her husband John and her daughter, Joanna - the play a success from New York starring Nancy Marchand, the previous year. In 1990, she appeared in ITV's adaptation of \"Ending Up\". Her last screen performance was as the Australian novelist Katharine Susannah Prichard in the film \"Shine\" (1996), for which she and the other cast members were nominated for a Screen Actors Guild award for \"Outstanding performance by a cast\".\n\nIn 2002, aged 85, Withers appeared with Vanessa Redgrave in Oscar Wilde's \"Lady Windermere's Fan\" in London's West End.\n\nIn October 2007, aged 90 and 89 respectively, Withers and McCallum appeared in an extended interview with Peter Thompson on ABC TV's \"Talking Heads\" programme.\n\nWithers died on 15 July 2011 at her Sydney home, aged 94. Her husband John McCallum predeceased her on 3 February 2010.\n\nWithers was appointed an Honorary Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) for services to drama, in the 1980 Australia Day Honours List. In the 2001 Queen's Birthday Honours List (UK), she was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE). Withers was a JC Williamson Award recipient for lifetime achievement in 1999. In 1992 Googie Withers and John McCallum were founding patrons and active supporters of the Tait Memorial Trust in London. A Charity established by Isla Baring OAM, the daughter of Sir Frank Tait of J. C. Williamson's to support young Australian performing artists in the UK.\n\nShe was the subject of \"This Is Your Life\" in 1971 when she was surprised by Eamonn Andrews.\n\n"}
{"id": "640894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=640894", "title": "James Duane", "text": "James Duane\n\nJames Duane (February 6, 1733 – February 1, 1797) was an American lawyer, jurist, and Revolutionary leader from New York. He served as a delegate to the Continental Congress, a New York state senator, the 44th mayor of New York City, the first post-colonial American mayor, and a U.S. District Judge. Duane was a signatory of both the Continental Association and the Articles of Confederation.\n\nJames Duane was born on February 6, 1733, in New York City in the then Province of New York. His parents were Eva Benson and Anthony Duane (c. 1679–1747), a Protestant Irishman from County Galway in Ireland who first came to New York as an officer of the Royal Navy in 1698. By the time of his James' birth, Anthony had become a wealthy Anglo-Irish colonial settler. Like others of colonial background, Anthony considered himself merely settling from one part of the British Empire to another as a free subject. Consequently, he maintained strong allegiance to the crown throughout his life, values which he later passed on to his son. He met and courted Eva Benson, whose father, Dirck, was a local American merchant. In 1702 Anthony left the navy, settled in New York, and married Eva. They had two sons before her death. When Eva died, Anthony remarried, this time to Althea Ketaltas (Hettletas), the daughter of a wealthy Dutch merchant family. Anthony entered commerce and prospered, and the couple had a son, James.\n\nDuane's mother, Althea, died in 1736, and his father married a third time in 1741 to Margaret Riken (Rycken), the widow of Thomas Lynch of Flushing, New York. When Anthony died in 1747, James became the ward of American aristocrat Robert Livingston, who was known as the 3rd Lord of the Manor. He completed his early education at Livingston Manor, then read law as a clerk in the offices of James Alexander.\n\nHe was admitted to the bar in 1754. As a lawyer, Duane represented Trinity Church in the very protracted legal action brought by heirs of Anneke Jans, who claimed that they, and not the church, were the lawful owners of much of lower Manhattan, a tract which had been given to the church by the British crown. By the early 1770s, his practice earned him 1,400 pounds annually. At the height of his success, Duane had a house in Manhattan, one in the country, and an estate near Schenectady, New York, of and 253 tenants. He was a vestryman of Trinity Church, was appointed one of the church's nine trustees during a post-war crisis about the church's Tory-leanings, and was also a trustee of Kings College, the precursor to Columbia University.\n\nDuane was Clerk of the Chancery Court of New York in 1762, acting provincial Attorney General in 1767 and Indian Commissioner for the Province of New York in 1774.\n\nSir James Duane did sign the articles of Confederation when he was mayor.\nDuane was a member of the \"Committee of Sixty\" that began the revolution in New York. He was made a delegate to the Continental Congress in 1774 and was continuously re-appointed through 1784, although he missed some sessions due to other duties. Like many other Americans, he had inherited his forefathers' patriotism to the British crown as well as their instinctive jealousy for their own rights as Englishmen.\n\nDuane was politically conservative. Until his marriage to Mary Livingston, he had been a member of James De Lancey's political faction. Like many men of the time, he distrusted the intelligence of common people, warning against the \"mob rule\" of a democratic republic.\n\nNevertheless, Duane wrestled with his allegiance to the British Empire and his desire to maintain and protect his ideals of English liberty and American self-government from what was perceived as encroachments upon their rights by an increasingly centralized imperial state. Thus, in the early Congress, he was one of the many who were most disposed to reconciliation with Britain. He supported the Galloway Plan of Union and opposed the Declaration of Independence. However, as the British government sent the largest combined navy and army force the British government had ever dispatched outside of Europe, he saw the futility of any further concord with the British government and advocated independence.\n\nNonetheless, because of his vacillation in contrast to more ardent independence-minded delegates, as well as his noted familial loyalty to New York, it was considered a better use of his talents working on the frontier against British agitation among the Indian tribes. Thus, in 1775 he represented Congress as an Indian Commissioner at Albany, New York. However, his local constituency later returned him to the new state constitutional convention from 1776-1777. Due to his excellent legal and political philosophical background, he served on the committee that drafted New York's constitution. Subsequently he was elected as a delegate by the State of New York to the Continental Congress. When the British occupied New York in 1776, he was forced from his home. With the British Army forces quick on his tail and those of other American leaders, he withdrew his wife and family to the relative safety of her father's home at Livingston Manor. In 1778 he signed the Articles of Confederation in Philadelphia. He remained active as a political leader throughout the war and returned home to Gramercy Park in 1783, commenting that his home looked \"as if they had been inhabited by wild beasts\".\n\nDuane was a member of the Federalist Party. He served in the New York State Senate from 1783 to 1790 and was appointed Mayor of New York by the Council of Appointment in 1784, serving until 1789. As mayor, one of his first acts was to donate to the poor the money usually spent on entertainment for his Inauguration – about 20 guineas. During his time in office, he strove to help the city revive itself after the damage done by the war and the British occupation, but he was unable to maintain the city's status as the capital of the United States. As head of the Mayor's Court, he heard the case of \"Rutgers v. Waddington\", handing down a Solomonic decision which pleased neither party. After he was called before the State Assembly to explain his thinking, he was censured by that body.\n\nIn 1785 Duane was one of 32 prominent New Yorkers who met to create the New York Manumission Society, intended to put pressure on the state of New York to abolish slavery, as every state in the north had done except New York and New Jersey.\n\nDuane was a delegate to the New York convention that ratified the Federal Constitution.\n\nOn September 25, 1789, President Washington named him the first judge of the United States District Court for the District of New York, created by 1 Stat. 73. He was immediately confirmed by the United States Senate and received his commission the following day. Richard Varick followed him as mayor. Duane served on the Federal bench until March 17, 1794, when his health forced him to resign.\n\nOn October 21, 1759, Duane married Mary Livingston (1738–1821), the eldest living daughter of his former guardian Robert. In 1766, after Mary's mother, Maria Thong (1711–1765) (the granddaughter of Gov. Rip Van Dam) died, Robert married the widow Gertrude (Van Rensselaer) Schuyler. Together, James and Mary had\n\nThroughout his life, he had worked to establish his own estate, inherited from his father, and centered at Duanesburg, New York. He had started erecting a home there for himself, but did not live to see it completed. He died at Schenectady, New York, and is buried at Christ Episcopal Church in Duanesburg.\n\nHis grandchildren included George W. Featherstonhaugh, Jr. (1814–1900), Robert Livingston Pell (1811–1880), James Duane Pell (1813–1881), George W. Pell (1820–1896), and Richard Montgomery Pell (1822–1882). His great-grandchildren included Alfred Duane Pell (1864–1937) and James Chatham Duane (1824–1897).\n\nDuane Street in Manhattan was named in his honor. The Fire Department of New York operated a fireboat named \"James Duane\" from 1908 to 1959.\n\nThe town of Duanesburg, New York, in the western part of Schenectady County, is named for James Duane, who held most of it as an original land grant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19284335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19284335", "title": "Joseph Bonnell", "text": "Joseph Bonnell\n\nJoseph Bonnell (August 4, 1802 – September 27, 1840) was a formally recognized hero of the Texas Revolution. He was a West Point graduate (Class of 1825) and a member of The Long Gray Line (a phrase used to describe all graduates and cadets of the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York).\n\nHis heroism in support of the War for Texas Independence is acknowledged in Texas House of Representatives Resolution #615 \"Paying tribute to the life of Lieutenant Joseph Bonnell, hero of the Texas Revolution, and commemorating the placement of a historical marker at his grave site\", which was adopted on 3/17/2005 by the 79th Texas Legislature. The resolution reads in part: \"...he successfully quelled an uprising...through a peaceful negotiation with Caddo Chief Cortes; his efforts helped enable General Sam Houston to focus the full strength of his army on defeating Mexican troops led by Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna at the famed Battle of San Jacinto, effectively securing the independence of the Republic of Texas.\"\n\nJoseph Bonnell, First Lieutenant, 3rd Infantry Regiment, US Army, Fort Jesup, Louisiana, was an official witness to the US and Caddo Indian Treaty of July 1, 1835 in which the Caddo Indians sold all of their lands in the United States to the United States. Lieutenant Bonnell asked to read the treaty before the chiefs signed and was refused by the US Agent. After the signing, it was discovered that the US Agent had included a hidden provision by which associates of the US Agent were enriched. Lieutenant Bonnell gave a deposition for the benefit of the Caddos which ultimately reached the US Supreme Court in US v. Brooks, 51 US 445 (1850).\n\nBonnell’s integrity and character came to the attention of Major General Sam Houston of the Texas Army who asked Bonnell to be his Aide-de-Camp, an appointment approved by the government of Texas. Bonnell performed the duties of Aide by providing General Houston with a comprehensive report on how to organize and establish an army. General Houston recommended that Bonnell be commissioned as a Captain in the Regular Army of Texas, and this was done by the government of Texas.\n\nIn March and April 1836, during the “Runaway Scrape,” there were many reports of as many as 1,700 hostile Indians massing in East Texas. This threatened the security of General Houston’s Army and the settlers in Texas. On April 7, 1836, US Major General Edmund P. Gaines, then commander of the southwest military division of the United States at Fort Jesup, Louisiana, ordered Bonnell to go into East Texas by himself to quell the Indian uprising.\n\nBonnell found the Indian villages empty except for women and children, the warriors having gone to the field. He finally located Caddo Chief Cortes and negotiated with him to have the warriors return to the villages in peace. Bonnell successfully completed his dangerous mission, which was of great benefit to General Houston and the Texas Army by allowing General Sam Houston to focus the full strength of his army on defeating Mexican troops led by Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna at the famed Battle of San Jacinto. Bonnell returned to Fort Jesup and wrote his report on April 20, 1836, the day before the Battle of San Jacinto.\n\nThe sword carried by General Houston in the Battle of San Jacinto was given to him by his friend, Joseph Bonnell. Bonnell had been in West Point with Texas Army Lieutenant William S. Stilwell who was with the “Twin Sisters” artillery at the Battle of San Jacinto. Bonnell was also at West Point with Albert Sidney Johnston, who later became Commanding General of the Texas Army and Secretary of War of the Republic of Texas when the new capital was built in Austin. In August 1836, three months after the Battle of San Jacinto, Sam Houston, Joseph Bonnell, and Albert Sidney Johnston were all in Nacogdoches, Texas.\n\nCaptain Joseph Bonnell, US Army, died on September 27, 1840 at the home of his brother in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nIt was Bonnell who discovered the plot of Manuel Flores to incite the tribes to war against Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "3175397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3175397", "title": "Julio Sosa", "text": "Julio Sosa\n\nJulio María Sosa Venturini (February 2, 1926 – November 26, 1964), usually referred to simply as Julio Sosa or El Varón del Tango, was a Uruguayan tango singer.\n\nSosa was born in Las Piedras, a Canelones Department suburb of Montevideo, Uruguay. He moved to Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1949, where he became famous with the Orquesta Francini-Pontier the Orquesta típica formed by the violinist Enrique Mario Francini and the bandoneonist Armando Pontier . Working with numerous other orchestras, he was reunited with Pontier in 1955, with whom he recorded several best-selling albums on the RCA Victor and Columbia labels and became one of the most important tango singers in the genre's history.\n\nHe married Nora Ulfed in 1958 and had a daughter. His marriage ended in separation, however, and he settled into a relationship with Susana Merighi. His towering masculinity and reserved strength earned him the nickname \"El Varón del Tango\" (\"The Man's Man of Tango\"). Sosa also published a book of poetry, \"Dos horas antes del alba\" (\"Two Hours Before the Dawn\"), in 1960. Following his switch to Columbia Records in 1961, the Pontier orchestra incorporated a new bandoneonist, Leopoldo Federico, and the association helped make the group the most successful in its genre, at the time.\n\nSosa's fame acquainted him with sports cars as well. He had numerous accidents during the early 1960s, mostly as a result of speeding. He was behind the wheel of a DKW coupé when, in the early hours of November 25, 1964, he crashed at high speed into a traffic light on Buenos Aires' Figueroa Alcorta Avenue, killing himself at age 38.\n"}
{"id": "24982777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24982777", "title": "Kalita (caste)", "text": "Kalita (caste)\n\nKalita is an ethnic group or a caste of Hindus belonging to the state of Assam in North East India. They commonly claim to belong to the Kshatriya caste. There is evidence of Kalita kingdom in very early times as well as during the 15th-16th century. According to historians like S.L.Barua, Kalitas started migrating from North and East India to Assam during the 11th century rule of Dharmapal. \n\nAccording to \"Purana Tradition\", the Kalitas are considered as pure Aryans. Though the Aryan descent theories endorse the arrival of the Kalitas \"before the rise of the existing professional castes\", the Kalitas generally claim to belong to the Kshatriya caste, and call themselves \"kulalupta\", \"kula\" meaning caste and \"lupta\" meaning gone (\"lost caste\") in the context of the legend that the Kalitas \"were Ksatriyas who fled from the wrath of Parasurama who was determined to exterminate the Ksatriyas. But this seems to be a false etymology.\"\n\nThe Kalitas in Assam are considered next only to the Brahmins in the caste-hierarchy. According to the legends, they are \"the non-Vedic Aryans\" who are responsible for bringing Aryan culture to Assam. Having mingled with local population, they still preserve certain elements of Aryan culture even after localizing their culture to some extent.\n\nDr. B.S. Guha has found similarities between some surnames of \"Alpine Nagar Brahmins\" of Gujarat with those of North East India, as referred in the Nidhanpur land grants of Kamarupa King Bhaskaravarman (6th century A.D.) such as \"Datta, Dhara, Deva, Nandi, Sena, and Vasu,\" etc. and connects them with the \"Kalitas\" of Assam. Again, historian Kanaklal Barua mentions these surnames while referring to the Nidhanpur inscription and says that these surnames \"now belong almost exclusively to the Bengali Kayasthas\".\n\nFew scholars including K.R. Medhi, K.L. Barua, P.C. Choudhuri, M. Neog, B. K. Kakati made speculations by drawing the references of \"Greek\" records, words like \"Kakatiai, Kalaiai, Kaltis, Koudontai, Kudutai, Gurucharitis\" and few early religious literatures to establish the \"Kalitas\" through materials not based on ethnology or anthropology. Some even tried to relate \"Kalitas\" to Naraka-Bhagadatta.\n\nMirroring the history of Assam, the Kalitas were peasants, though during the rule of the Ahom dynasty they also proved their might and capabilities as soldiers, generals, administrators, envoys, and judges.\n\nThe Ahom paik system surnames of Bora, Hazarika, Saikia, Kakoti, Barua, Rajkhowa, and Phukan can all be found amongst the Kalitas of Assam, which signify that they served the Ahom monarchy. Bora was the leader of 20 paiks (or foot soldiers), Saikia that of 100 paiks and Hazarika that of 1000 paiks. The Baruas led 3000 men, similar to the Rajkhowas. Phukans formed the uppermost layers of the Ahom military and judicio-administrative structure, subservient to the Ahom Borphukans and Borbaruas. Phukans and Baruah are found in the Brahmins, Ahoms and Kalitas of Assam alike. Besides this, Bora, Baruah and Saikia are equally found in the Sutiya community while Hazarika, Rajkhowa are found amongst the Ahoms.Certain posts like \"Boiragi\" or envoys to neighbouring kingdoms such as the Jaintias (presently in Meghalaya), the Kacharis (Assam), and the Mughal Sultanate in Bengal, were given to Kalitas in preference to Ahoms.\n\n"}
{"id": "22704342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22704342", "title": "List of Golden Martín Fierro Award winners", "text": "List of Golden Martín Fierro Award winners\n\nThe Golden Martín Fierro Award is presented annually by the Asociación de Periodistas de la Televisión y Radiofonía Argentina (APTRA) (). It is given to honor an Argentine individual with an outstanding career in the media of Argentina or a recent production of outstanding quality. APTRA described the standard as \"the best among the best\". It was first awarded in 1992 at the Martín Fierro Awards ceremony for works from 1991. It is a special award, unrelated to the regular ones, which are distributed in categories. A second award, the Platinum Martín Fierro Award, is selected by public poll among the previous recipients of the Golden award. This second award was created in 2009 for works from 2008, but there was no Platinum award for the 2013 ceremony. The awards for the cable television were split in 2016 to their own ceremony, with its own Golden Martín Fierro. \n\nThe talk show \"Fax\" was the first recipient of the award, and, as of 2017, \"El Marginal\" is the most recent. No recipient has received the award twice, but Nicolás Repetto, host of \"Fax\", received a personal one in 2000. Facundo Arana, Julio Chávez, Mercedes Morán, Celeste Cid, Nancy Dupláa, Pablo Echarri, Diego Peretti and Gabriela Toscano have been lead actors of different works of fiction that received the award.\n\nIn the following table, the years are listed per APTRA convention, and generally correspond to the year when the productions were aired. The Martín Fierro award ceremonies are always held the following year. The ceremonies have no nominees for the Golden award, which is announced at the end once all the regular awards have been received. The award may be given to either a person with an outstanding career or recent production of outstanding quality. When the award is received by a production, the \"Starring\" column lists the people that worked in it, such as TV hosts or lead actors. The \"TV channel / Radio station\" column lists either the channel or station that aired the production, or the channel or station where the person worked at the year of the award. \n\n"}
{"id": "5714197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5714197", "title": "List of former atheists and agnostics", "text": "List of former atheists and agnostics\n\nFor lists of atheists who converted to Christianity, Islam, or Judaism see the following links:\n\n\nAll other former atheists and agnostics that have been listed so far are below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44816672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44816672", "title": "List of music archivists", "text": "List of music archivists\n\nThis is a list of music archivists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16190926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16190926", "title": "List of vegetarians", "text": "List of vegetarians\n\nThis is a list of notable people who have adhered to a vegetarian diet at some point during their life. In the cases where a person's vegetarian status is disputed or they no longer adhere to a vegetarian diet, they are categorized as \"disputed\" or \"former\".\n\nThis list includes only those for whom there is a legitimate dispute of the fact and omits those merely rumored of being a vegetarian, regardless of how widely such rumor is spread.\n\n"}
{"id": "35432972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35432972", "title": "Marine mammal training", "text": "Marine mammal training\n\nThe trainers train these animals by using a positive reinforcement method called operant conditioning. There are five steps needed to become a dolphin trainer: earn a high school diploma, considering volunteering, earn a degree, obtain an internship, and become SCUBA certified. Most marine mammal trainers earn their degree in marine biology, psychology, and/or animal behavior. Even though a formal education is very important, it is even more important to get a hands on experience with a senior team member and learning and becoming familiar with the animals behaviors. Training marine life is a very big task and takes a lot of responsibility. Many people have an unrealistic view on what training these mammals is actually like. Trainers duties include an enormous amount of cleaning, preparing food, feeding, training, writing records, performing in shows, and public education and interaction.\n\nReinforcers are one of the great ways trainers communicate with animals. The reinforcers let the animal know when they have done the desired behavior you wanted them to achieve. Trainers need to make sure they reinforce the animal directly after they have successfully done the behavior and not wait too late. If the reinforcer is too late, by even a few seconds, then the animal can start an undesired behavior. The trainer needs to create signals so the animal knows they have done the correct behavior. When training a new behavior it is important to teach in small steps. By training in small steps, you can train an animal to do complex behaviors. This step-by-step learning experience is called shaping. Trainers create different signals for the animals for different behaviors. This helps let the animal know the correct behavior to perform. If an animal does not respond to a signal or responds with an undesired behavior then the trainer normally will remain motionless and wait three seconds before trying the signal again. This three second pause is referred to as the Least Reinforcing Stimulus, or LRS. It is like a short \"time-out\" for the animals. The trainers try not to force a situation and never punish an animal for not doing a behavior correctly.\n\nA study done by dolphins.org states that the average salary for an entry level trainer is between $18,000-$20,000. This ranges from facility to facility but this is the average. California, Florida, and New York are the three highest states with available animal trainer job positions. Since there are few marine parks and aquariums that open each year the demand for marine mammal trainers is very competitive. Marine mammal trainers can work in aquariums, zoos, non-profit environmental advocacy organizations, eco-tourism companies, university research laboratories, industrial research centers, private companies, and government research laboratories or marine stations. Since marine mammal trainers tend to be secure in their position and close to the animals they work with, the job turnover rate is low. Once people secure a job in this field, they tend to stay for life\n\nHere are some great schools for marine mammal training, University of Alaska Fairbanks, University of California Santa Cruz, California State University, Cornell University, University of Delaware, Duke University, University of Hawaii at Manoa, University of Maine, and many more. Most of these schools provide an extensive schooling program with field experiences integrated with classroom and laboratory courses. While a bachelor's degree is not mandatory for this career it is more beneficial to have at least a 4-year degree. If a bachelor's degree is not acquired then all of the certifications, volunteering, and qualifications are still needed to become a marine mammal trainer.\n\nDolphin Research Center Training Institute, established in 2012 as the College for Marine Mammal Professions, DRCTI offers an accelerated Occupational Associates Degree in Marine Mammal Behavior, Care and Training that can be attained in 36 weeks.\n\nAdditional short and long-term educational opportunities can be found here. http://marinemammaltrainer.com/dolphin-training-schools/\n\nThe International Marine Animal Trainers' Association (known as IMATA), was created in 1972. IMATA was created for communication, professionalism, and cooperation between those who serve for the marine life. This helps network and exchange ideas between marine animal trainers internationally. IMATA is dedicated to providing and advancing the most professional, effective, and humane care of marine animals in all habitats. IMATA's responsibilities are for striving to continue the existence of oceanaria, aquaria, and laboratories housing marine animals. There are four rules for the Code of Professional Ethics. Each member is committed to:\n\n\nFor more information you can visit a variety of authority resources such as aza.org, imata.org (international marine animal trainers association) and marinemammaltrainer.com\n"}
{"id": "1393769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1393769", "title": "Marty Schottenheimer", "text": "Marty Schottenheimer\n\nMartin Edward Schottenheimer (; born September 23, 1943) is a former professional American football player and coach who served as a head coach in the National Football League (NFL) for 21 seasons. He was the head coach of the Kansas City Chiefs for 10 seasons, the Cleveland Browns for five seasons, the San Diego Chargers for five seasons, and the Washington Redskins for one season. Sixth in all-time wins at 205 and fifth in regular season wins at 200, Schottenheimer has the most wins of a head coach to not reach a championship in the NFL. After coaching in the NFL, he won a 2011 championship in his one season with the Virginia Destroyers of the United Football League (UFL).\n\nSchottenheimer's tenure as an NFL head coach was marked by consistent regular season success and postseason struggles. Over the course of over two decades, he went 14 seasons before posting a losing record and had only two seasons with more losses than wins. However, Schottenheimer won only five of 18 postseason games he appeared in and never advanced beyond the conference championship round of the playoffs. At the conclusion of his NFL career, Schottenheimer held a playoff winning percentage of .278, a stark contrast to his .613 regular season winning percentage. He is the only coach in NFL history with at least 200 wins who has a losing playoff record and the only eligible NFL coach with at least 200 regular season wins who has not been inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.\n\nSchottenheimer was born in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania.\nHe attended high school at Fort Cherry High School in McDonald, Pennsylvania. After attending the University of Pittsburgh, Schottenheimer, a linebacker, was selected in the fourth round of the 1965 NFL Draft by the Baltimore Colts and in the seventh round of the 1965 American Football League draft by the Buffalo Bills. He signed with the Bills and spent the next four (1965, 1966, 1967, and 1968) seasons with Buffalo, including the Bills' 1965 AFL Championship season, when he was selected to the AFL All-Star Team. Schottenheimer was still with the team during the 1969 preseason and intercepted two passes in a game against the Houston Oilers.\n\nSome time between the 1969 preseason and regular season, Schottenheimer was sent to the Boston Patriots and spent the next two seasons with the Pats. He was traded to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 1971 but was traded again to the Colts before the beginning of the 1971 season. He retired from football in 1971 and spent the next several years working in the real estate industry. Schottenheimer credits his professional playing career as being his inspiration for coaching.\n\nSchottenheimer came out of retirement in 1974 to sign with the Portland Storm of the World Football League as a player-coach. He injured his shoulder prior to the start of the season, but stayed on with the Storm as their linebackers coach.\n\nSchottenheimer's professional coaching career began in 1974 when he became linebackers coach for the Portland Storm of the World Football League. In 1975, he was hired as a linebackers coach for the NFL's New York Giants and in 1977 became defensive coordinator. Schottenheimer spent 1978 and 1979 as the linebackers coach for the NFL's Detroit Lions.\n\nIn 1980, he was hired as the defensive coordinator for the Cleveland Browns. On October 22, 1984, Schottenheimer replaced Sam Rutigliano as Browns head coach, after an October 7 game against the New England Patriots that bore an eerie resemblance to Cleveland's 1980 playoff loss to the Raiders, known as Red Right 88. The Browns were down 17–16 in the fourth quarter, and lost on an interception in New England's end zone as time expired. Chants of \"Goodbye Sam\" rung out from the stands after the New England game. Browns' owner Art Modell called the play-calling \"inexcusable\" and fired Rutigliano two weeks later. The 1–7 Browns then went 4–4 under Schottenheimer to finish the season with a 5–11 record.\n\nThe selection of University of Miami quarterback Bernie Kosar in 1985's supplemental draft ushered in a new, largely successful era for Cleveland. With Schottenheimer, Kosar and a cast of talented players on offense and defense, the team reached greater heights than Rutigliano and former quarterback Brian Sipe ever did. Though they became consistent playoff contenders in this era, the Browns did not reach the Super Bowl, falling one win short three times in the late 1980s.\n\nWhile not stellar, the Browns' record won first place in a weak AFC Central in 1985, and the team looked poised to shock the heavily favored Miami Dolphins in a divisional playoff game on January 4, 1986. Cleveland surged to a 21–3 halftime lead, and it took a spirited second-half comeback by Dan Marino and the Dolphins to win it 24–21 and end the Browns' season. Despite the loss, many people expected Cleveland to be back the following year. \"The Browns' days, the good days, are here and ahead of us\", radio personality Pete Franklin said.\n\nDespite a tumultuous off season, 1986 marked Cleveland's entry into the ranks of the NFL's elite as Kosar's play improved and the defensive unit came together. Kosar threw for 3,854 yards to a corps of receivers that included Brian Brennan, Newsome and rookie Webster Slaughter. On defense, cornerbacks Frank Minnifield and Hanford Dixon emerged as one of the NFL's premiere pass-defending duos. After a slow start, the Browns rose to the top of the divisional standings, twice beating the Pittsburgh Steelers and ending a 16-game losing streak at Three Rivers Stadium. A 12–4 record earned Cleveland home-field advantage throughout the playoffs. The Browns' first opponents in the 1986 playoffs were the New York Jets. Kicker Mark Moseley made a field goal and won the game for the Browns 23–20. It was the team's first playoff victory in 17 years. The following week, the Browns matched up against the Denver Broncos in the AFC Championship game in Cleveland. Denver got out to an early lead, but Cleveland tied the game and then went ahead 20–13 in the fourth quarter. After the ensuing kickoff, the Broncos were pinned at their own 2-yard line with 5:32 remaining. Denver quarterback John Elway then engineered a 98-yard drive for a touchdown with the cold, whipping wind in his face. \"The Drive\", as the series came to be known, tied the score and sent the game into overtime. Cleveland received the ball first in the sudden-death period but was stopped by the Denver defense. On Denver's first possession, Elway again led the Broncos on a long drive ending with a Rich Karlis field goal that sailed just inside the left upright and won the game. The drive that tied the game has since come to be seen as one of the best in playoff history, and is remembered by Cleveland fans as a historic meltdown.\n\nAlthough downtrodden by 1986's playoff defeat, Cleveland continued to win the following season. The Browns finished with a 10–5 record in 1987 and won the AFC Central for the third year in a row. In the divisional playoff round, the Browns faced the Indianapolis Colts and won 38–21. The win set up a rematch with the Broncos in the AFC Championship in Denver. The Broncos held a 21–3 lead at halftime, but a pair of rushing touchdowns and another by receiver Reggie Langhorne brought Cleveland to within seven points. Cleveland scored again in the fourth quarter, but the Broncos went ahead again by seven points on a touchdown with four minutes left. After Denver's kickoff, Kosar and the offense reached the Broncos' eight-yard line with 1:12 remaining. Kosar handed the ball to Earnest Byner on a second down. Byner ran left and broke inside with a clear path to the end zone, but was stripped by Denver's Jeremiah Castille just before crossing the goal line. The Broncos ran down the clock before intentionally taking a safety and winning 38–33. \"The Fumble\" quickly entered the lexicon of the Browns' modern-era disappointment, just as The Drive had a year before.\n\nThe 1988 season was marred by injuries to the Browns' quarterbacks. But despite the rotating cast of quarterbacks, Cleveland managed to finish with a 10–6 record and made the playoffs as a wild-card team. Cleveland met the Houston Oilers in the wild-card playoff round at home, and soon found themselves attempting to win with third-string quarterback Mike Pagel after an injury to second stringer Don Strock. Pagel put up a valiant effort, but the team lost the game 24–23. Four days after the Oilers loss, Schottenheimer and Modell announced that the coach would leave the team by mutual consent. Modell felt hiring an offensive coordinator was necessary to keep pace with the Oilers and the Bengals, a pair of divisional opponents then on the rise, but Schottenheimer said it \"became evident that some of the differences we had, we weren't going to be able to resolve.\"\n\nSchottenheimer remained with the Browns until 1988, amassing a 44–27 (.620) regular-season record and a 2–4 (.333) mark in the playoffs, including four playoff appearances, three AFC Central Division titles, and two trips to the AFC Championship Game (both against the Denver Broncos).\n\nKansas City Chiefs' general manager Carl Peterson named Schottenheimer head coach on January 24, 1989.\n\nIn 1990, Schottenheimer's Chiefs got out of the starting gate quickly, winning three of their first four games. The club then struggled, splitting its next six contests. In an inspiring Veterans Day performance against Seattle, the Seahawks miraculously won, 17–16. That loss brought on the furious stretch run which saw the club record victories in six of its last seven outings. The Chiefs clinched their first post-season berth since 1986 with a 24–21 win at San Diego and finished the year at 11–5, marking the franchise's best finish since 1969. The Chiefs suffered a heart-breaking, 17–16 loss at Miami on January 5, 1991 in an AFC Wild Card Game.\n\nA 27–21 victory against the Los Angeles Raiders in the 1991 regular season finale gave the Chiefs the right to host the Raiders just six days later in the inaugural post-season game in Arrowhead's history, and the Chiefs' first home playoff game in 20 years. Thanks to six Los Angeles turnovers, the Chiefs registered their first post-season victory since Super Bowl IV with a 10–6 win in an AFC Wild Card Game on December 28. The following week, the Chiefs lost a 37–14 decision at Buffalo on January 5, 1992 in an AFC Divisional Playoff match-up as the Buffalo Bills' dynamic offense proved to be too much for the Chiefs.\n\nThe Chiefs got off to a 3–1 start in 1992, but was faced with a 4–4 record at the season's midpoint. Despite four consecutive victories, the club's post-season hopes still came down to the season's final contest. Owning a 9–6 record and needing one more victory to secure a playoff berth, the Chiefs defense tallied three touchdowns, as Kansas City claimed a 42–20 win against Denver to finish the season at 10–6. Despite the big win against the Denver Broncos, the Chiefs made a quick exit from the playoffs as quarterback Dave Krieg was sacked 7 times in a 17–0 AFC Wild Card loss against the San Diego Chargers on January 2, 1993.\n\nThe Chiefs spent the 1993 off-season installing the \"West Coast offense\" under the direction of new offensive coordinator Paul Hackett, who at one time served as quarterbacks coach to Joe Montana in San Francisco. On April 20, the Chiefs traded for Joe Montana, who directed the 49ers to four Super Bowl victories in the previous decade. On June 9, the club signed unrestricted free agent running back Marcus Allen, who had spent 11 seasons playing against the Chiefs as a member of the rival Raiders. Montana and Allen made their debuts in a 27–3 win against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on September 5, marking Montana's first Opening Day appearance since 1990. Before taking the field in a Sunday night contest at Minnesota on December 26, the team learned it had clinched its first AFC West title since 1971 thanks to a Raiders loss earlier in the day. The team finished the season with an 11–5 regular season record, marking the club's fourth consecutive year with a double-digit victory tally.\n\nKansas City got its first true taste of \"Montana Magic\" as the Hall of Fame passer engineered a brilliant comeback in a 27–24 overtime win in an AFC Wild Card thriller against the Pittsburgh Steelers on January 8, 1994. Next, the Chiefs traveled to the Astrodome to face the red-hot Houston Oilers, who had won 11 straight games to conclude the regular season. The heavily favored Oilers opened up a 13–7 lead in the fourth quarter, but once again, Montana conjured a comeback, guiding the club to a 28–20 victory. The Chiefs playoff journey ended as the club made its initial AFC Championship Game appearance against the Buffalo Bills on January 23. Montana was knocked out of the contest early in the second half as Buffalo claimed its record fourth straight AFC title by a score of 30–13.\n\nAfter starting the 1994 season 3–0, the Chiefs dropped back-to-back games before snapping an 11-game losing streak against Denver at Mile High Stadium on October 17 in a memorable Monday night contest. The Chiefs found themselves at 8–7 faced with a do-or-die regular season finale against the Raiders. At 9–7, Kansas City qualified for the playoffs for a fifth straight season. However, the Chiefs made a rapid departure from the playoffs in Montana's final professional contest at Miami on New Year's Eve. Montana and Dolphins' quarterback Dan Marino conducted a masterful first-half duel that ended deadlocked at 17–17, but Miami eventually prevailed by a 27–17 count.\n\nMontana announced his retirement from football after 16 years in the NFL on April 18, 1995 and Steve Bono was promoted to the starting job. Immediately, the media predicted much gloom and doom for the 1995 Chiefs under Bono, leading Schottenheimer to quip during training camp that his club had been picked \"sixth in a five-team division\". Led by Bono, who merited a Pro Bowl berth, Kansas City posted an NFL-best 13–3 record with unblemished 8–0 marks in the AFC West and at Arrowhead. The Chiefs led the NFL in rushing offense (138.9 ypg), scoring defense (15.1 ppg) and turnover ratio (+12). A 24–3 win at Arizona on October 1 featured a surreal, 76-yard TD run on a bootleg by Bono as the Chiefs initiated a seven-game winning streak, the franchise's longest since 1969. Kansas City clinched a division title with a 29–23 victory at Oakland on December 3 en route to a franchise-best 13–3 regular season record and a team-record sixth consecutive postseason berth. The Chiefs were represented by seven players in the Pro Bowl, more than any other AFC team. In the playoffs, the Chiefs dropped an AFC Divisional Playoff Game against the underdog Indianapolis Colts on January 7, a blustery afternoon with the temperature at 11 degrees and a wind chill of −9. Three interceptions and three missed field goals from placekicker Lin Elliot contributed to the 10–7 loss at Arrowhead.\n\nKansas City entered the 1996 campaign with essentially the same lineup as the club boasted in 1995 and were featured on the cover of \"Sports Illustrated\" along with Green Bay as pre-season Super Bowl favorites. The club started the season with a 4–0 record for the first time in team history, but the season's lofty expectations came crashing down as the squad lost three of its next four games. A three-game winning streak, including a victory over the eventual Super Bowl champion Green Bay Packers, put the club back in post-season contention at 8–3. Needing just one more win to qualify for the playoffs, the Chiefs dropped their next two games: a 24–19 loss against Indianapolis and a 20–9 loss to the Bills. The Chiefs finished with a 9–7 record, missing the postseason for the first time since 1989 after the AFC's final Wild Card spot went to the Jacksonville Jaguars, who won a tiebreaker with Kansas City.\n\nKansas City dramatically retooled its roster in 1997, beginning with the signing of free agent quarterback Elvis Grbac on March 17. In addition to Grbac, the Chiefs lineup featured 11 new starters. All the new faces quickly formed a cohesive unit as the Chiefs posted a 13–3 record, an 8–0 Arrowhead record and their second AFC West title in three years. The Chiefs led the NFL in scoring defense, allowing a mere 14.5 points per game. The 232 total points permitted by the Chiefs in 1997 were the lowest tally ever allowed in a 16-game season in team history. Kansas City also broke a 63-year-old mark owned by the 1934 Detroit Lions by not permitting a second-half TD in 10 consecutive games. Grbac returned for the regular season finale against New Orleans Saints on December 21 as the squad finished the year with six consecutive victories, a first in team history. The Chiefs' 13–3 record gave them home field advantage throughout the AFC Playoffs. However, their playoff run was short-lived, as Kansas City lost to the eventual Super Bowl champion Denver Broncos 14–10 in the Divisional round.\n\nThe following year, with Elvis Grbac back at the helm, the Chiefs fell to 7–9 in 1998. Marty Schottenheimer took much of the blame for his failed attempts in the playoffs and conservative style of coaching (\"Martyball\"), and resigned following the 1998 season.\n\nSchottenheimer spent a total of 10 seasons as head coach of the Kansas City Chiefs, from 1989 to 1998 recording a 101–58–1 regular season record (.634) and had three division titles, seven playoff appearances, and a trip to the AFC Championship game in 1993, losing to the Buffalo Bills.\n\nAfter working as a football analyst for ESPN from 1999 to 2000, Schottenheimer was hired as head coach of the Washington Redskins for the 2001 season. Schottenheimer's Redskins became the first team in NFL history to win five consecutive games immediately after losing its first five games. One of the Redskins loses was a 13–45 loss to Schottenheimer's former team, the Chiefs. The Redskins won eight of their final eleven games to narrowly miss the post season. Despite this, in a controversial move, Daniel Snyder, the owner of the Redskins, fired Schottenheimer on January 13, 2002 after just one 8–8 season to make room for former University of Florida head coach Steve Spurrier.\n\nThe San Diego Chargers hired Schottenheimer as their 13th head coach on January 29, 2002. Schottenheimer posted a 47–33 record (.588) with the Chargers. His success didn't come immediately, as the team posted a 4–12 record in 2003, thereby \"earning\" the first overall pick in the draft. He was named NFL Coach of the Year for the 2004 NFL season after the Chargers went 12–4 and won the AFC West. Schottenheimer led the team to two playoff appearances, his 12th and 13th as a head coach. However, both appearances resulted in disappointing losses; to the underdog New York Jets in overtime in , and to the New England Patriots in , bringing his playoff record to 5–13.\nSchottenheimer was abruptly fired by San Diego on February 12, 2007. Reasons for his firing include a strained relationship with general manager A.J. Smith, which reached a breaking point when four assistants (Cam Cameron, Wade Phillips, Rob Chudzinski and Greg Manusky) left for positions with other teams. These coaches all left to pursue higher-level opportunities with other teams, which cannot be prevented by the team they are leaving under NFL rules; two of them became head coaches, instead of merely making a lateral move to the same position with another team.\n\nJim Trotter, of the \"San Diego Union Tribune\", also believes that Schottenheimer's insistence that his brother, Kurt Schottenheimer, replace Phillips as the defensive coordinator further strained the relationship between team president Dean Spanos and Schottenheimer. Spanos had always been against the idea of allowing relatives to be on the same coaching staff, even though Schottenheimer's son Brian was the Chargers' quarterbacks coach. Schottenheimer even went as far to book a flight to San Diego for his brother, Kurt, against Spanos's wishes. This act of defiance increased the gap between Spanos and Schottenheimer.\n\nDean Spanos released a statement saying \"Our fans deserve to know what changed for me over the last month. When I decided to move ahead with Marty Schottenheimer in mid-January, I did so with the expectation that the core of his fine coaching staff would remain intact. Unfortunately, that did not prove to be the case, and the process of dealing with these coaching changes convinced me that we simply could not move forward with such dysfunction between our head coach and general manager. In short, this entire process over the last month convinced me beyond any doubt that I had to act to change this untenable situation and create an environment where everyone at Charger Park would be pulling in the same direction and working at a championship level. I expect exactly that from our entire Charger organization in 2007.\"\n\nSchottenheimer was still owed $4 million for the final year of his contract, as the firing was \"without cause\". Schottenheimer was replaced as San Diego head coach by Norv Turner—coincidentally the last full-time head coach the Redskins had before Schottenheimer's arrival. Following the Chargers' subsequent 1–3 start the next season, fans at Qualcomm Stadium voiced their displeasure with the firing by chanting \"Marty! Marty! Marty!\"\n\nIn Schottenheimer's NFL coaching career, 17 coaches have been hired by teams that previously employed him, and all but the Chargers have a losing record in their post-Schottenheimer eras.\n\nIn March 2011, the Virginia Destroyers hired Schottenheimer to be their first head coach and general manager, at the age of 67. In order to lure Schottenheimer to the Destroyers, league majority owner William Hambrecht personally guaranteed he would pay Schottenheimer's $1.1 million salary for the eight-game season. He led the Destroyers to a 4–1 record in the shortened 2011 regular season, earning a playoff berth with home-field advantage in his first season. Schottenheimer's efforts earned him the 2011 United Football League Coach of the Year award. His starting running back, Dominic Rhodes, was also named the MVP of the 2011 UFL season.\n\nOn October 21, 2011, the Virginia Destroyers derailed the two-time defending UFL Champion Las Vegas Locomotives 17–3 in the 2011 UFL Championship Game at the Virginia Beach Sportsplex. It was Schottenheimer's first ever championship as a coach.\n\nSchottenheimer abruptly resigned from the Destroyers shortly before the 2012 season, citing discomfort over unspecified issues facing the team that season and the failure of the team to meet also-unspecified conditions for his return. Schottenheimer later sued Hambrecht after not receiving any of the money he was owed. He received a settlement of approximately $800,000 in the lawsuit.\n\nSoon after being replaced in 2007 as head coach of the San Diego Chargers, he was hired by ESPN to work as an NFL Insider on the network, returning to a role he had served in between his coaching stints with the Kansas City Chiefs and the Washington Redskins. He has recently been seen on \"SportsCenter\" and \"NFL Live\".\n\nSchottenheimer has been married to his wife, Pat, since 1968. They live on Lake Norman in North Carolina. They have two children, a daughter, Kristen and a son, Brian, who is the Offensive coordinator for the Seattle Seahawks. Marty's younger brother Kurt was also a coach in the NFL.\n\nIn 2011, Schottenheimer was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. By the time the diagnosis was announced publicly in 2016, it had progressed slowly and he still maintained much of his memory and function, and he was about to begin experimental treatment to slow the progression of the disease even further.\n\nSchottenheimer was heavily influenced by Lou Saban, his first professional head coach in the American Football League. In turn, several current NFL Head Coaches trace their lineage back to Marty Schottenheimer on his Coaching tree:\n\nSchottenheimer gave many head coaches their first coaching jobs. All of these coaches have coached under Schottenheimer:\n\nSchottenheimer's son Brian has served as a coach for multiple NFL and college teams since 1997. His longest tenure was with the New York Jets, as their offensive coordinator from 2006 through 2011. In January 2018, the Seattle Seahawks announced that they had hired Brian as their offensive coordinator.\n\nSchottenheimer's younger brother Kurt coached for multiple professional and college teams. His first position was as defensive coordinator for William Paterson University in 1974; he then coached for a total of 12 different teams from 1978 through 2012. He most recently served as Marty's successor as head coach with the Virginia Destroyers of the now defunct UFL (this is not reflected in the above tree, which shows only NFL-based relationships).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44074400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44074400", "title": "Mohammed Mamdani", "text": "Mohammed Mamdani\n\nMohammed Sadiq Mamdani (born 8 February 1983) is a British Muslim social entrepreneur and activist, who is currently the Director of Sufra NW London. He is known for his extensive work in founding charitable organisations. Mamdami is an advocate on youth issues, particularly those affecting young people from minority communities and has stated he combines his experience from everything he's done to challenge cultural taboos around social issues and empower young people to play an active role in their communities.\n\nMohammed began his career in the voluntary sector at the age of 18 years whilst studying for his A-levels, when he founded the award-winning charity Muslim Youth Helpline in February 2001. This is today considered the Muslim community's premier youth counselling service in the UK. It was at college that Mohammed first realised the extent of isolation that today's young Muslims experience; while problems such as drug misuse, depression and sexuality are issues common among many young people, he believed that young Muslims often need advice that takes into account broader religious and social contexts, which is why he created the helpline.\n\nAfter helping to secure its financial base, Mamadani retired as a trustee of MYH to take up fresh challenges: he became a trustee of the Foundation for Social Entrepreneurs, a charity that promotes social entrepreneurship by offering financial awards and support packages to individuals with creative ideas for achieving social objectives.\n\n4 years after Muslim Youth Helpline, Mamdani set up Ansar Youth Project, a community based model in faith and culturally sensitive youth-work as a response to the 7/7 London bombings. He had been the Head of Operations of Ansar Youth Project until 2009. Also, between 2005-2007 Mohammed was appointed to the Board of Trustees for UnLtd, the Foundation of Social Entrepreneurs.\n\nDuring January 2010, Mamdani was employed as a Capacity Building Manager and Head of Youth Services at Queen's Crescent Community Association. Mamdani joined QCCA in an effort to increase his experience and knowledge on how to run charitable organisations, primarily those who support disadvantaged people. He wanted to set up organisations which tackle homelessness, food poverty in the United Kingdom, debt amongst other communal problems. Mamdani used his knowledge from QCCA to set up the initial charitable trust; Al-Mizan during the summer of 2011. Mamdani left QCCA in October 2011 to work closely with his newly found charity.\n\nMohammed Sadiq Mamdani, founded Al-Mizan Charitable Trust in October 2011. This became the UK's first Muslim grant-funder that supports individuals living in poverty, regardless of their faith or cultural background. Every month, the Trust receives more than 40 applications for financial support, of which only half of eligible applications can be supported with a grant or interest-free loan of up to £500.\n\nAlthough the Trust prioritises applications which provide long-term benefit, rising poverty and unemployment has forced the charity to consider funding more and more applications for basic household and subsistence costs. The fundraising appeals are run in partnership with grassroots organisations, so that the packs reach the people who need them the most.\n\nSufra was in talks by Mamdani back in 2011, however it wasn't pushed into establishment until late 2012, until eventually it was officially founded in April 2013. Sufra is an Arabic term meaning \"Come to the table\". The aim of the charity was to provide local people with food and even basic necessities and toiletries. Sufra was marketed as a Community Food Bank & Kitchen, which aims to support disadvantaged families suffering food poverty in the local area. Sufra quickly became noted for being the first Muslim run charities that supports all backgrounds and ethnicities in the UK. Sufra began to run Food Academies in 2014, also becoming a local community centre aiming to bring the community together by running food academies and teaching people to cook. The main aim was to train young people between the ages of 16–25 years in basic cookery skills. Over 5 weeks and 10 intensive sessions it hopes to teach people to cook 10 home-cooked meals, understand nutrition and how to maintain a healthy diet. In addition to this, they run a master-chef competition and learn to manage weekly budgets with an accredited qualification, which can be used to apply for an apprenticeship or employment in the catering industry. Mamdani has stated that Sufra has been his most hardest challenges yet but believes there is still more to achieve from it.\n\nMamdani's enrolled for Richmond upon Thames College in September 1999, located in South London from where he proceeded to Oxford to study Arabic and Persian with Islamic Studies. He took a year out from his undergraduate studies at Oxford University to pilot the Muslim Youth Helpline service. Mohammed graduated from St. John's College, Oxford in 2009. He studied towards a Master's in Arabic and Islamic Studies from SOAS, University of London a year after.\n\nHis awards include Volunteer of the Year from BT & the Telephone Helplines Association (2003), Whitbread Youth Achievers Award (2004) and CSV Year of the Volunteer Medal for Innovation (2005). His citation for the Whitbread award noted, \"Mohammed is an inspirational example of what young volunteers can do in their communities, through determination and commitment. This is a project that is making a real difference to hundreds of lives.\" Mamdani was added to The Independents \"Good List\" of 50 people in 2006, where Paul Vallely was involved in the selection process. In January 2015, Mamdani was one of 67 who had been awarded the Halifax Giving Extra Award. As well as receiving this reward, Sufra was entitled to receive £300 in bonus bond vouchers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17092879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17092879", "title": "Morgan ap Maredudd", "text": "Morgan ap Maredudd\n\nMorgan ap Maredudd sometimes referred to as “Morgan the Rebel” (flourished 1270-1316), rebel, of Glamorgan.\nHe was the son of Maredudd ap Gruffudd (c.1234-c.1275) the last Welsh lord of Caerleon of Machen, and Maud, daughter of Cadwallon.\n\nOwing to grievances against the de Clares, when his family was deprived of its estates by Gilbert de Clare, 7th Earl of Gloucester, he claimed to be at war only against the lords of Glamorgan.\nDuring 1283, he supported the rebellion of Dafydd ap Gruffydd, prince of Wales.\nHe was the leader of the Glamorgan insurgents during the rising of Madog ap Llywelyn in 1294-5; under his leadership, the Welsh captured castles at Kenfig, Llangibby, and Morlais.\nMorgan submitted to king Edward I and in 1297, he became an esquire of Edward's household and his agent in south Wales.\nHis daughter, Angharad, married Llewelyn ap Ifor, Lord of St. Clere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40776780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40776780", "title": "Nkululeko Gwala", "text": "Nkululeko Gwala\n\nNkululeko Gwala, originally from Inchanga in KwaZulu Natal, was a resident of Cato Crest in Durban and a supporter of the Marikana Land Occupation (Durban). He was also a prominent member of the shackdwellers' social movement Abahlali baseMjondolo.\n\nGwala was assassinated on the 26 June 2013 after unnamed gunmen opened fire and he was shot 12 times. This was following a controversial community meeting with eThekwini Mayor James Nxumalo and ANC regional chairperson Sibongeseni Dhlomo in which Mr Gwala was singled out as a trouble maker.\n\nThe movement says Nkululeko Gwala was assassinated for exposing corruption in Cato Crest and that the community knows the identity of the gunman who they say also killed housing activist Thembinkosi Qumbelo. They claim the gunmen are associated with a local ANC councillor.\n\nGwala was buried in his home town of Inchanga in a politically charged funeral.\n\n"}
{"id": "14685568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14685568", "title": "Peter Klashorst", "text": "Peter Klashorst\n\nPeter Klashorst (also \"Peter van de Klashorst\") (born 11 February 1957) is a Dutch painter, sculptor, and photographer.\n\nKlashorst was born in Santpoort and graduated cum laude from the Gerrit Rietveld Academie in Amsterdam in the early nineteen eighties. During this period a new art movement arose in Europe, namely \"The New Wild Ones\". Klashorst became one of its leading personalities. In 1983 he received a prestigious Dutch Royal award (Koninklijke Subsidie voor de Vrije Schilderkunst) from Queen Beatrix.\n\nIn 1987 Klashorst was one of the initiators of \"After Nature\", an international art collective that aimed at reinventing painting and bringing art back to society and taking it out of the official highbrow art world. Famous and notorious for their joint performances on streets and in nightclubs, they toured the world and were a notorious phenomenon of their time. The collective “After Nature”, including co-founders Klashorst and the artists Roberto Cabot, George Dokoupil and Ernst Voss, opposed the prevailing non-figurative style and was interested in just painting what they saw.\n\nDuring this period Klashorst could often be found in New York’s East Village art scene where he showed his work in galleries at Manhattan’s Lower East Side, for instance the Daniel Newburg Gallery and the International With Monument Gallery. He hang out with Robert Mapplethorpe and Jeff Koons still in the beginning of his career.\n\nTired and disillusioned with the whole commercial art world and all the time consuming networking in expensive restaurants, he started travelling to distant places without an art market or top galleries. Just as his heroes the poet Arthur Rimbaud and the painter Paul Gauguin he went to Africa full of romantic ideas, but of course the harsh reality of the African city life is no picnic. During this time he exhibited in the National Museum of Kenya and gave lectures and workshops to local artists and street kids, but was also arrested and imprisoned a few times for his uncompromising sculptures and paintings.\n\nKlashorst has been living all over the place but never left his beloved place at the Spuistraat in Amsterdam. He has been working at lot from Cities as Bangkok, Mombasa and Phnom Penh. In 2011 he did one of his last self organised shows at the Tuol Sleng, S21 the former Khmer Rouge prison (Cambodia). In honour of the victims of the Khmer Rouge’s terror and genocide that took place from 1975 to 1979 in Cambodia, Peter Klashorst created an impressive and sometimes very confronting set of around 50 paintings.\nThe show got world wide attention (The New York Times and Herald Tribune).\n\"People in the West often believe that these events of brutal oppression only happened in the past. But even right now, in the so-called civilized western world, innocent people from poor countries are put behind bars. Authorities in the rich countries arrest them, take their pictures, interrogate them and prepare dossiers, just to deport them as illegal immigrants and send them back after months in jail. That is also an issue that fuelled this work, and makes this exhibition not only a tribute to those who died at S-21, but also to those innocent people who are suffering in prisons all over the world right now and are unable to be free in this world that God created for all of us\", says Klashorst.\n\nIn 2014 he was diagnosed with HIV. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19961478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19961478", "title": "Peter Nahum", "text": "Peter Nahum\n\nPeter Nahum is an English art dealer, author, lecturer and journalist who is known for his many appearances on the long running BBC television programme \"Antiques Roadshow\", on which he appeared from 1981 to 2002. He discovered a long lost Richard Dadd watercolour on the show which was subsequently sold to the British Museum.\n\nNahum was educated at Sherborne School and began his career at Peter Wilson's Sotheby's in 1966. During his 17 years with the company he initiated the Victorian Painting Department at the newly opened Sotheby's Belgravia in 1971 and was head of the British Painting Department (1840 to Contemporary) until his departure in 1984. He was also a Senior Director sitting on the chairman's committee and advisor to the British Rail Pension Fund on Victorian Paintings.\n\nHe left Sotheby's in 1984 to open his own gallery, The Leicester Galleries, in St James's, London, specialising in paintings, drawings and sculptures of the highest quality from the 19th and 20th centuries. He now works independently, actively buying and selling and is currently adviser to major private collections and museums throughout the world, signatory on authentication certificates for Victorian paintings sold to Japan and official valuer for the Department of Arts, Heritage and Environment of the Government of Australia. He also acts as a celebrity auctioneer for many charities. He is a television personality, academic, lecturer, author, frame designer and frequent lender of paintings to international exhibitions.\n\nNahum created the trading website onlinegalleries.com for the art and antique dealers around the world, all members of C.I.N.O.A. and their own national trade associations. This gives the dealers a trading platform and a chance to display their wares in their own purpose-built websites and galleries, and gives the public the opportunity to buy with confidence.\n\nFrom 1981 to 2002 Peter Nahum was a regular contributor to the BBC's Antiques Roadshow rediscovering Richard Dadd's lost watercolour \"Artists Halt in the Desert\" in 1987, which was later sold to the British Museum and an album of Filipino landscapes sold in 1995 for £240,000. Other BBC Television appearances include Omnibus, 1983 with Richard Baker on Richard Dadd's \"Oberon and Titania\", and In at the Deep End, 1984, a three-quarter of an hour program during which he taught television journalist Chris Searle to auctioneer. He has also appeared on Breakfast Television, The City Program and Signals and on Sixty Minutes, to name a few, as well as various radio talk shows.. Throughout his career he has reported fakers to the police and has had success both in seeing them convicted and seeing the law crystallized in respect to the definition of fakes and faking. In this respect he has appeared in \"The Artful Codgers\" made for BBC Four in November 2007 It was Peter Nahum who first reported the Greenhalgh family to the police with full evidence in 1984, although it took another 16 years to convict them.\n\nIn 1986, Peter Nahum lectured on Victorian Painters as Super Stars - Their Public and Private Art, at the Smithsonian Institution, Washington DC, USA; in 1993 on The Poetry of Crisis. British Art 1933-1951 at the Victoria & Albert Museum, London and more recently The Strange Forces around the Finding of Richard Dadd’s \"Artist’s Halt in the Desert\" for the National Arts Collection Fund. He lectures to student bodies and various other organisations.\n\nPeter Nahum writes for daily press, for antiques magazines and museum & gallery catalogues.\n\nHis published works include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38640208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38640208", "title": "Philip Magnus", "text": "Philip Magnus\n\nSir Philip Magnus, 1st Baronet (7 October 1842 – 29 August 1933) was a British educational reformer and politician, who represented the London University constituency as a Unionist from 1906 to 1922. He had previously been appointed director of the City and Guilds of London Institute, from where he helped oversee the creation of a modern system of technical education in the United Kingdom. He was married to the writer and teacher Katie Magnus, and was father of the publisher Laurie Magnus. Laurie predeceased him, and on Philip's death in 1933 he was succeeded in the baronetcy by Laurie's eldest son Philip.\n\nAfter studying at University College School and University College London, where he took first-class honours in both arts and science, Magnus chose to take up a religious career. An active member of the Reform Judaism in Britain, he spent three years studying at the Hochschule für die Wissenschaft des Judentums in Berlin and returned to London to take up a post as assistant rabbi at the West London Synagogue in 1866.\n\nDuring his time as rabbi, Magnus supplemented his income by teaching private students, which grew steadily into a regular occupation. He held a lectureship at Stockwell teacher training college, taught at University College London, and examined prospective teachers for the College of Preceptors. In 1880, he finally left his rabbinical work to become director of the newly formed City and Guilds of London Institute. He oversaw the rapid growth of the institute, focusing his attentions on the technical education departments, of which he became Superintendent in 1888; he would hold this post until retiring in 1915.\n\nOutside of the Institute, Magnus was influential in setting national education policy; he sat on the Samuelson Commission (the Royal Commission on Technical Instruction) of 1884, and for his work here was knighted in 1886. The Commission's report led to the Technical Instruction Act 1889, which supported local authorities in creating technical schools around the country. He encouraged the reform of primary and secondary state education in London, and helped oversee the merger of the City and Guilds Institute into the newly formed Imperial College of Science and Technology.\n\nIn the 1906 general election, he was elected to Parliament as a Liberal Unionist, representing the London University constituency. He narrowly defeated Sir Michael Foster, a prominent Cambridge physiologist, by twenty-four votes. Foster was a Liberal, who on his initial election had joined the Liberal Unionists and supported Salisbury's Conservative government; however, he later crossed the floor to rejoin the Liberals, in large part due to his opposition to the 1902 educational reforms. Magnus was re-elected in 1910, and on the demise of the Liberal Unionists in 1912 joined the Conservative Party. He held the seat in 1918 – where he defeated Sidney Webb – but did not seek re-election in 1922.\n\nIn retirement, he continued to sit as a member of the Senate of the University of London, and chaired the council of the Royal Society of Arts. He was a governor of the Northampton Institute and Royal Grammar School, Guildford, and a vice-president of the Anglo-Jewish Association, the Board of Deputies of British Jews, and Jews' College. In 1917, he co-founded the anti-Zionist League of British Jews.\n\n"}
{"id": "46292660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46292660", "title": "Prakaipet Indhusophon", "text": "Prakaipet Indhusophon\n\nPrakaipet Indhusophon (1929–1991) was a Thai philatelist who was added to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1989.\n\nIndhusophon was an expert in the philately of classic Siam, and has received Large Gold medals (and Special Prizes) at Ausipex 84, Philakorea 84, Israphil 85 and Italia 85. He competed at the FIP Championship Class at Stockholmia 86, Capcx 87, Finlandia 88 and Praga 88. He won the Grand Prix d'Honneur in an FIP Championship Class of 29 entries.\n\nHe was married to Boonkrong Indhusophon, who continued his work after his death in April 1991.\n"}
{"id": "54168901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54168901", "title": "Princess Alexandrine of Prussia (1915–1980)", "text": "Princess Alexandrine of Prussia (1915–1980)\n\nPrincess Alexandrine Irene of Prussia (7 April 1915 – 2 October 1980) was the eldest daughter and fifth child of Wilhelm, German Crown Prince, and Cecilie of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. Her grandparents were Wilhelm II, German Emperor and his wife Augusta Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein, and Frederick Francis III of Mecklenburg-Schwerin and Grand Duchess Anastasia Mikhailovna of Russia. Alexandrine was a member of the House of Hohenzollern.\n\nAlexandrine was born at the Kronprinzenpalais (Crown Prince's Palace) in Berlin. Her middle name of Irene (Greek for \"peace\") was likely given due to her birth during the second year of World War I. She followed older brothers Wilhelm, Louis Ferdinand, Hubertus, and Frederick. Alexandrine's only sister, Cecilie, was born in 1917. Alexandrine known by the nickname of \"Adini\" within her family.\n\nIt became clear shortly after Alexandrine's birth that she was affected with Down Syndrome. Unlike other royal children with special needs, Alexandrine was not hidden away. She appeared in official family photographs and at events. She was cared for primarily by her nurse, Selma Boese. As a teenager, Alexandrine attended the Trüpersche Sonderschule, a school dedicated to the education of young women with special needs.\n\nAlexandrine was confirmed along with her sister Cecilie in October 1934.\n\nAlexandrine lived most of her later life in Bavaria, first in Pöcking and later near Lake Starnberg. She was visited there regularly by her family, particularly her brother Louis Ferdinand.\n\nAlexandrine died in 1980 and is buried near her parents and brother Frederick at Hohenzollern Castle.\n"}
{"id": "55408584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55408584", "title": "Rayane Aabid", "text": "Rayane Aabid\n\nRayane Aabid (born 19 January 1992) is a French professional footballer who plays as a winger for the French club AS Béziers in the Ligue 2.\nAabid signed for Paris FC on 23 June 2017, after a meteoric rise from the lower French divisions. Aabid made his professional debut with Paris FC in a 0–0 Ligue 2 tie with Clermont Foot on 28 July 2017.\n\nAabid is of Moroccan descent.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011946", "title": "Richard Ellis (biologist)", "text": "Richard Ellis (biologist)\n\nRichard Ellis (born April 2, 1938) is an American marine biologist, author, and illustrator. He is a research associate in the American Museum of Natural History's division of paleontology, special adviser to the American Cetacean Society, and a member of the Explorers Club. He was U.S. delegate to International Whaling Commission from 1980 to 1990.\n\nHis paintings have been exhibited in galleries and museums around the world, and his murals can be seen in the Denver Museum of Natural History, the New Bedford Whaling Museum in Massachusetts, and Whaleworld, a museum in Albany, Western Australia. He is the author of more than 100 magazine articles, which have appeared in \"National Geographic\", \"Natural History\", \"Audubon\", \"Curator\", \"National Wildlife\", \"Geo\", \"Australian Geographic\", and \"Reader's Digest\". He has written 23 books, including \"The Book of Sharks,\" \"The Book of Whales\", \"Dolphins and Porpoises\", \"Men and Whales\", \"Great White Shark\" (with John McCosker), \"Encyclopedia of the Sea\", \"Aquagenesis: The Origin and Evolution of Life in the Sea\", \"Deep Atlantic\", \"Monsters of the Sea\", \"Imagining Atlantis\", \"Tiger Bone & Rhino Horn\", \"No Turning Back: The Life and Death of Animal Species\", \"Sea Dragons: Predators of Prehistoric Seas\", \"Tuna\", \"The Empty Ocean\", and \"Swordfish: A Biography of the Ocean Gladiator\". \"On Thin Ice\" looks into the changing world of polar bears and highlights their problems caused by global warming and disappearing Arctic ice. In 2011 the University Press of Kansas published \"The Great Sperm Whale: A Natural History of the Ocean's Most Magnificent and Mysterious Creature\". Richard Ellis curated a show on sharks in art for the Fort Lauderdale Art Museum, from May 2012 to January 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "803545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803545", "title": "Roderick Sprague", "text": "Roderick Sprague\n\nRoderick Sprague III (February 18, 1933 – August 20, 2012) was an American anthropologist, ethnohistorian and historical archaeologist, and the Emeritus Director of the Laboratory of Anthropology at the University of Idaho in Moscow, where he taught for thirty years. He had extensive experience in environmental impact research, trade beads, aboriginal burial customs, and the Columbia Basin area.\n\nIn addition to his work in the traditional anthropological fields, he also collaborated with Professor Grover Krantz in an attempt to apply scientific reasoning to the study of Sasquatch.\n\nSprague received both his bachelor's and master's degrees in anthropology from Washington State University in Pullman, serving in the U.S. Army in between. He received his Ph.D in 1967 from the University of Arizona in Tucson.\n\nAs a graduate student in 1964 at Washington State University, he was the field supervisor of a dig at the Palus burial site in Lyons Ferry, Washington when one of only a few known Jefferson Peace Medals was discovered.\n\nAdditionally, his dissertation, \"Aboriginal burial practices in the plateau region of North America\" (1967) is considered one of the best writings on the topic.\n\nSprague’s career was varied and took him in different directions. He conducted excavations in the Pacific Northwest, Alaska, and the Canadian Maritime on Prince Edward Island; and research in the American Southwest and Inner Mongolia. Much of his research was on burial practices and historical archaeology, with a special interest in glass and ceramic trade beads and buttons. He conducted burial research at the request of ten different American Indian tribal governments. Sprague was an early advocate of the importance of repatriation in archaeological and anthropological excavations, long before the enactment of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.\n\nSprague served many roles in the Society for Historical Archaeology: on the Board of Directors from 1970–71, secretary-treasurer from 1971–1974, member of the Editorial Advisory Board since 1977, Book Review Editor from 1977 to 1997, Archivist from 1987 to 1998, as President in 1976 and 1990 and as Parliamentarian from 1984 to 2008.\n\nHe was a Professor of Anthropology at the University of Idaho in Moscow for thirty years, until his retirement in 1997.\n\nSprague, along with Dr. Deward E. Walker, founded the scholarly journal Northwest Anthropological Research Notes in 1966, called the Journal of Northwest Anthropology since 2001.\n\nSprague was the first member of The Society for Historical Archaeology to be awarded both the J. C. Harrington Medal in Historical Archaeology and the Carol Ruppe Distinguished Service Award.\n\nIn retirement, Sprague lived in Moscow with his wife Linda, who also holds degrees in anthropology. He had four adult children: Roderick IV, Katherine, Frederick, and Alexander Sprague.\n\n\nAmong his published works on Sasquatch:\n\n"}
{"id": "41634416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41634416", "title": "Roseanne Supernault", "text": "Roseanne Supernault\n\nRoseanne Supernault is a Canadian film and television actress, best known for her roles as Natalie Stoney in the television series \"Blackstone\" and as the title character in the 2013 film \"Maïna\". Originally from East Prairie, Alberta, she is of Métis and Cree descent.\n\nShe won the Best Actress Award at the 2013 American Indian Film Festival for her performance in \"Maïna\".\n\nA graduate of the Victoria School of Performing and Visual Arts in Edmonton, Alberta, she has also appeared in the films \"Rhymes for Young Ghouls\" and \"Through Black Spruce\", and the television series \"Rabbit Fall\", \"Into the West\" and \"Mixed Blessings\".\n\nSupernault runs acting workshops in Vancouver, BC for Indigenous youths and has been active in the Idle No More movement.\n"}
{"id": "16423955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16423955", "title": "Samsui women", "text": "Samsui women\n\nThe term Samsui women () broadly refers to a group of Chinese immigrants who came to Malaya and Singapore between the 1920s and 1940s in search of construction and industrial jobs. Their hard work contributed to the development of the Straits Settlements, both as colonies and later as the new nations of Singapore and Malaysia. Samsui women did manual labour similar to coolies but were more independent.\n\nAround 3,000 Samsui women are believed to have moved to Singapore from China between 1934 and 1938. This migration continued until 1949 when emigration from China was declared illegal.\n\nSamsui women mainly came from Sanshui (Samsui) in Guangdong (Kwangtung) Province, but also from Shunde and Dongguan. About 90% of them were Cantonese, while the rest were Hakka.\n\nIn Chinese, these women are referred to as \"Hong Tou Jin\" (), which means \"red bandana\", because of the red cloth hats they wore at work.\n\nComing to Singapore as cheap labourers between the 1920s and 1940s, Samsui women worked mainly in the construction industry and other industries that required hard labour. They also worked as domestic servants. They had a reputation of rejecting jobs involving drug (particularly opium) peddling, prostitution, or other vices, even if that meant living in poverty. Their contributions to housing construction and as well as labour at hawker centres have been invaluable to Singapore's early development.\n\nBefore arriving in Singapore, most Samsui women took vows never to marry, although there have been known exceptions. They lived in cramped conditions with other Samsui women, helping out each other and forming tightly united cliques.\n\nSamsui women also remained in touch with their relatives back home in China, communicating with them frequently through letters. Occasionally, they would send money to them.\n\nThere are fewer than a hundred Samsui women left in Singapore today, all of them in their 80s and 90s. Organisations exist to raise awareness of these women's achievements and contributions to Singapore's development, and their current state. Some of these organisations also strive to provide free travel for the women back to China to visit their relatives before they die. One such organisation was the Sam Shui Wai Kuan Association that took care of the needs of Samsui women.\n\nThe travails of the Samsui women were portrayed in \"Samsui Women\", a television drama series produced by Singapore Broadcasting Corporation in 1986, which has widely been considered as one of the best dramas Singapore has produced over the years. There was also a theatrical play by The Finger Players, called \"Samsui Women: One Brick at a Time\", held at the Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay.\n"}
{"id": "2871320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2871320", "title": "Samuel J. Seymour", "text": "Samuel J. Seymour\n\nSamuel James Seymour (March 28, 1860 – April 12, 1956) was the last surviving person who had been in Ford's Theatre the night of the assassination of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln on April 14, 1865. He was from Maryland and lived in Arlington, Virginia. Seymour, a carpenter and contractor, lived most of his later life in Baltimore, Maryland. He died April 12, 1956, at the home of his daughter in Arlington, Virginia, survived by five children, 13 grandchildren and 35 great-grandchildren. He was buried at Baltimore's Loudon Park Cemetery.\n\nOn April 14, 1865, when he was five years old, Seymour's godmother (the wife of his father's employer) took him to see \"Our American Cousin\" at Ford's Theater in Washington, D.C., where they sat in the balcony across the theater from the presidential box.\nHe saw Lincoln come into the box, waving and smiling. Later, \"All of a sudden a shot rang out... and someone in the President's box screamed. I saw Lincoln slumped forward in his seat.\" Seymour watched John Wilkes Booth jump from the box to the stage. He remembers that, not understanding what had happened to Lincoln, he was very concerned for Booth, who broke his leg in the jump.\n\nIn 1954, Seymour gave his account of the assassination to biographer Frances Spatz Leighton.\n\nTwo months before his death, Seymour appeared on the February 9, 1956, broadcast of the CBS TV panel show \"I've Got a Secret\". After arriving in New York City he suffered a fall, which left him with a large swollen knot above his right eye. Host Garry Moore, after bringing Seymour on stage, explained that he and the show's producers had urged Seymour to forgo his appearance; that Seymour's doctor had left the choice up to his patient; and that Seymour very much wanted to go on.\n\nDuring the game, Seymour was first questioned by panelist Bill Cullen, who quickly surmised from Seymour's age that his secret was somehow connected with the American Civil War, then correctly guessed that it had political significance and involved a political figure. Jayne Meadows then guessed that the political figure was Lincoln, and finally that Seymour had witnessed Lincoln's assassination. Because Seymour smoked a pipe rather than cigarettes, the show's sponsor, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company gave him a can of Prince Albert pipe tobacco instead of the usual prize of a carton of Winston cigarettes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12890761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12890761", "title": "Sir David Graaff, 3rd Baronet", "text": "Sir David Graaff, 3rd Baronet\n\nSir David de Villiers Graaff, 3rd Baronet (3 May 194024 January 2015), was a South African businessman and owner of De Grendel Wine Estate.\n\nThe son of Sir De Villiers Graaff, 2nd Baronet, he was born in 1940, after his father left to serve in the North African campaign. Sir De Villiers became a prisoner of war in 1942, and would not meet his son until 1945. David took his undergraduate degree BSC Agric University of Stellenbosch, preparatory to a career in politics and farming, but also read Politics, Philosophy and Economics at Magdalen College, Oxford and studied at the University of Grenoble. Like his father, he at one time entered South African politics and served as Minister of Trade and Industry under FW De Klerk, he withdrew in 1996 after his father's death. When he inherited the baronetcy and the family estate of De Grendel upon his father's death, he decided to experiment with viniculture and winemaking. Sir David was a director of Graaffs Trust and The Milnerton Estates Limited.\n\nHe was the Honorary Colonel of the Cape Garrison Artillery until his death on 24 January 2015.\nSir David is survived by his wife Sally and his four children, the eldest of whom, De Villiers, succeeded him in the baronetcy and farms in the Hex River valley.\n"}
{"id": "48393069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48393069", "title": "Surya Saputra", "text": "Surya Saputra\n\nSurya Saputra (born 5 July 1975) is an Indonesian actor, singer, and model. He is a former member of the boy band Cool Colors.\n\nSaputra has appeared in the soap operas \"Air Mata Ibu\", \"Cerita Cinta\", \"Remaja Lima\", \"Cinta Abadi\", \"Romantika 21\", \"Strawberry\", \"Metropolis 2\", \"Senyuman Ananda\", and \"Arisan! 2 The Series\". He has appeared in the films \"Janji Joni\", \"Gie\", \"Untuk Rena\", \"Arisan!\", \"Belahan Jiwa\" and \"Long Road to Heaven\", which is about the Bali terrorist bombing. Saputra won \"Best Supporting Actor\" for his work in \"Arisan!\" at the 2004 Indonesian Film Festival.\n\nSaputra has also worked as a film producer. He appeared on the reality show \"Celebrity Dance\" teamed up with Cynthia Lamusu. He is also a former member of Surya the boy group Cool Colors, along with Ari Wibowo (replacing Teuku Ryan), Ari Sihasale, and Yohandi Yahya.\n\nOn 2 April 2016, Saputra had received a special award, 7 Icon Usmar Ismail Awards, together with a senior Widyawati, Tio Pakusadewo, Dwi Sasono, Lenny Marlina, Sissy Pricillia, and Prisia Nasution at the 2016 Usmar Ismail Awards.\n\nSaputra married singer Dewi Sandra in 2000 and they were divorced in January 2005. Saputra married Cynthia Lamusu of the girl group Be3 on 8 June 2008. Saputra and Lamusu became parents to baby twins, both girl and boy, which were born on 20 November 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1498748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1498748", "title": "The Voyage of Bran", "text": "The Voyage of Bran\n\nImmram Brain (maic Febail) \"(The Voyage of Bran [son of Febail])\" is a medieval Irish narrative.\nThe content derives from Irish mythology, but was written in the 8th century. Some Irish tale-lists categorise the tale as an \"Echtra\" (\"Adventure\"), but it contains the essential elements of an Immram, or \"Voyage\". It may have influenced the later story of Saint Brendan's voyage. The concept of \"voyage\" has been widely used across the world in that time. While this specific set comes from Ireland, it can be compared with Classical sources such as the Odyssey and the Aeneid, some Scandinavian tales as well as other Brittonic tales told on what is now the United Kingdom, particularly those preserved from Wales (Y Mabinogion and Brittany including Tristan and Yseult. In one rendition, this text has been recorded by Seamus Mac Mathuna.\n\nBran mac Febail (modern spelling: Bran mac Feabhail) embarks upon a quest to the Otherworld. One day while Bran is walking, he hears beautiful music, so beautiful, in fact, that it lulls him to sleep. Upon awakening, he sees a beautiful silver branch in white bloom in front of him. He returns to his royal house, and while his company is there, an Otherworld woman appears, and sings to him a poem about the land where the branch had grown. In the song, she identifies the branch to be from an apple tree in Emain, another part of Ireland. In this Otherworld, it is always summer, there is no want of food or water, no sickness or despair ever touches the perfect people, and there is no unhappiness or \"no rough or harsh voice.\" She tells Bran to voyage to the Land of Women across the sea, and the next day he gathers a company of nine men to do so. Each of his foster brothers were put in charge of a group of three men.\n\nAfter two days, he sees a man on a chariot speeding towards him. The man is Manannan mac Lir, and he tells Bran that he is not sailing upon the ocean, but upon a flowery plain. He also reveals to Bran that there are many men riding in chariots, but that they are invisible. He tells Bran of how he is to beget his son in Ireland, and that his son will become a great warrior. He follows by prophesying the life of the boy and how Manannan mac Lir will be a teacher and a father to him.\n\nBran leaves Manannan mac Lir, and comes to the Isle of Joy. All the people upon the Isle of Joy laugh and stare at him, but will not answer his calls. When Bran sends a man ashore to see what the matter is, the man starts to laugh and gape just like the others. Bran leaves him and sails farther.\n\nHe then reaches the Land of Women, but is hesitant to go ashore. However, the leader of the women throws a magical clew (ball of yarn) at him which sticks to his hand. She then pulls the boat to shore, and each man pairs off with a woman, Bran with the leader. There were three times nine \"couches\" available for all of them.\n\nFor what seems to be one year, although it is in actuality many more, the men feast happily in the Land of Women until Nechtan Mac Collbran feels homesickness stir within him. The leader of the women is reluctant to let them go, and warns them not to step upon the shores of Ireland and to get back the man they left on the Island of Joy.\n\nBran and his company sail back to Ireland. The people that have gathered on the shores to meet him do not recognize his name except in their legends. Nechtan Mac Collbran, upset, jumps off the boat onto the land. Immediately, Nechtan Mac Collbran turns to ashes.\n\nBran and his company relate the rest of their story to the Irish, and then sail across the sea, never to be seen again.\n\n\"The Voyage of Bran\" was first written down in the late 7th century to early 8th century.\n\nThe poem shares similar themes and elements with other Irish immrama, such as \"The Voyage of Brendan\" and \"The Voyage of Mael Duin\", both written in early to mid-900. For example, Bran, Brendan and Mael Duin each encounter a holy island where the inhabitants live quiet, blissful lives. Bran is told of a tree with holy birds that all sing at the same time, which is similar to what Brendan encounters in his voyage. The stories are also similar in that at one point, one of the travellers is exorcised or left behind on an island, either by free will or as punishment for a sin.\n\n\"The Voyage of Bran\" may also be compared to the Welsh text \"Branwen Daughter of Llŷr\" from the \"Mabinogi\". The parallels are not along the lines of plot, as with \"The Voyage of Brendan\" and \"The Voyage of Mael Duin\", but rather in the names of characters. As Patrick K. Ford writes, both the title character Branwen and her brother Bendigeidfran’s names include the element \"bran\" (the \"-fran\" of \"Bendigeidfran\" is a mutated form), connecting them with the Bran from \"The Voyage of Bran\". Along with their brother Manawydan, Branwen and Bendigeidfran are the children of Llŷr, the Welsh word for ‘sea,’ and cognate with the Irish word \"lir\" in Manannan mac Lir.\n\nStructurally, \"The Voyage of Bran\" is a combination of poetry and prose, with many short stanzas punctuated by longer, prose narration. These prose narrations are known as Narrative Envelopes.\n\nThe Voyage of Bran has many parallels to \"The Voyage of Máel Dúin\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35595624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35595624", "title": "Theophylact (son of Michael I)", "text": "Theophylact (son of Michael I)\n\nTheophylact or Theophylaktos (; – 15 January 849) was the eldest son of the Byzantine emperor Michael I Rhangabe () and grandson, on his mother's side, of Nikephoros I (). He was junior co-emperor alongside his father for the duration of the latter's reign, and was tonsured, castrated, and exiled to Plate Island after his overthrow, under the monastic name Eustratius.\n\nTheophylact was born to Michael Rhangabe and Prokopia . He was the couple's oldest child, but the list of his siblings given in the hagiography of Patriarch Ignatius I of Constantinople, who was Theophylact's youngest brother, is unclear on whether he was the eldest child or was born after his oldest sister Georgo. He was named after his paternal grandfather, the \"droungarios\" of the \"Dodekanesos\" Theophylact Rhangabe, who had participated in a failed conspiracy to wrest the throne from Empress-regent Irene of Athens in 780. Nevertheless his maternal grandfather, the emperor Nikephoros I (), rose to become General Logothete (finance minister) under Empress Irene before eventually deposing her in October 802.\n\nFollowing the death of Nikephoros in the Battle of Pliska on 26 July 811 and the crippling of his only son and heir Staurakios in the same battle, on 2 October the Byzantine Senate and the \"tagmata\" guard units acclaimed Nikephoros's son-in-law Michael Rhangabe as emperor and forced Staurakios to abdicate. Michael immediately set about to consolidate his rule, distributing lavish gifts, crowning his wife as \"Augusta\" on 12 October, and finally, crowning Theophylact – then aged eighteen – as co-emperor in the Hagia Sophia on Christmas Day, 25 December 811. At about the same time, Michael sent an embassy under Bishop Michael of Synnada to the Frankish court, which among other issues raised the prospect of an imperial marriage between Theophylact and one of Charlemagne's daughters. Despite a warm reception at Aachen and the ratification of a peace treaty between the two realms, Charlemagne, perhaps wary after the repeated failures of successive efforts to that effect over the previous decades, hesitated to agree to such a match.\n\nNothing further is known of Theophylact until 11 July 813, when Michael, faced with a military revolt under Leo the Armenian, abdicated the throne. Michael and his family sought refuge in the Church of the Virgin of the Pharos, where they were tonsured as monks and nuns. Michael and his sons were castrated to make them incapable of claiming the throne in the future, and exiled to Plate, one of the Princes' Islands in the Sea of Marmara (though the later historians John Skylitzes and Zonaras mention the island of Prote instead). Leo accorded them an annual stipend. According to Theophanes Continuatus Theophylact, who adopted the monastic name Eustratius (Εὐστράτιος), died five years after his father, on 15 January 849, and was buried alongside him in a church on Plate Island. Theophanes Continuatus also reports that his body (or perhaps that of his father) was later transferred by his brother, Patriarch Ignatios, to the monastery known as \"tou Satyrou\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13373081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13373081", "title": "Tomás Bairéad", "text": "Tomás Bairéad\n\nTomás Bairéad (1893–1973) was an Irish author and nationalist. Born in Galway, his father was called Michael Barrett and his mother Mary McDonough. He had two sisters and one brother. He was a member of the Moycullen group of the Irish Volunteers in 1916 and soon after became an IRA volunteer. He was also a member of the IRB and Sinn Féin. He was part of a group of Volunteers who were involved in the burning of the RIC Barracks in Rosmuc in 1920. He began his journalistic career with the Galway Express, a weekly republican paper. In 1922 he would join the \"Irish Independent\", writing on politics, and would later become the newspaper's editor in 1945. While working for the \"Independent\" he was presented the Irish Academy of Letters Award (1938). Bairéad also invented his own Irish shorthand. His close friend, Máirtín Ó Cadhain, urged him to leave the IRA to focus on his writings.\n\nThomas Barrett (1893–1973), An Bairéadach, or Tomás Bairéad, as he was also known, was a journalist and Irish language author.\nHe was born in on 7 July 1893 in Ballydotia, Moycullen, County Galway. He married Ellen Maher (1903–1947) from Clonard, county Westmeath in Corpus Christi Church, St Martin's (Maiden Lane), London on 25 June 1930. Ellen's father, James was also a farmer. They had two daughters, Treasa, a nurse, and Maura, a librarian.\n\nHe was a fine athlete and sportsman, and as a young man played gaelic football and hurling with his native parish team. When he was barely 17 years of age, Bairéad was involved in castle rustling. The cattle, in the ownership of the landlord George Burke, were driven from Burke's land at Cnoc a' tSean Bhaile. Bairéad's involvement in this activity was in reaction to the eviction of a number of his neighbours by the landlord, and resulted in him spending some time in gaol. Bairéad was primarily self-educated.\n\nBairéad was a member of the Moycullen group of the Irish Volunteers (Óglaigh na h-Éireann) in 1916. He was a member of the IRB and Sinn Féin, and administered the IRB oath to new members. He was friendly with Liam Mellows and Proinsias Ó hEidhin, and others who were leaders of the 1916 Rebellion in county Galway. He was one of a group of Volunteers involved in the burning of the RIC Barracks in Rosmuc in 1920. For these and other republican activities he spent sometime in Galway Gaol.\n\nBairead commenced his journalistic career with the Galway Express, a weekly republican paper, in 1917. When paper's printing press was destroyed by the RIC, and Black and Tans in 1920, he transferred to the Connacht Tribune. During this period he had an address at 5 Nuns' Island, Galway.\n\nHe was appointed to the staff of the Irish Independent on 18 September 1922. In 1945 he became responsible for the Irish language page. In 1930 he purchased the family home, 3 Beechmount Villas, Glasnevin, Dublin, where he lived until he retired to Moycullen in 1948. While with the Independent he travelled to and reported on various Celtic Congresses held in Wales, Scotland and the Isle of Man, and in 1943 he reported on Éamon de Valera's general election campaign.\n\nHe wrote extensively during the 1930s and 1940s. His first collection of short-stories, Cumhacht na Cinneamhna, was published by An Gúm in 1936. The collection received very positive reviews, with the Connacht Tribune writing, 'In originality, technique and language, those stories probably surpass anything of their kind published in Irish', and 'It will not be surprising if a few of those stories find their way among the classics', while the Irish Times wrote, \"While the language is rich, idiomatic and adequate, the stories themselves could well be the authentic work of a novelist in any language'. Bairéad was awarded the O'Growney Award by the Irish Academy of Letters for this collection in 1937.\n\nHis next collection An Geall a Briseadh followed shortly afterwards, again published by An Gúm. This was a collection of short stories and sketches dealing mainly with scenes and events familiar to Bairéad in his native countryside. This book also received positive reviews, such as one writing that Bairéad \"is undoubtedly a discovery and a decided addition to the ranks of Gaelic writers\". For this collection he was awarded the Douglas Hyde Literary Fund('Ciste an Chraoibhin Aoibhin'), in 1938 for the best original work in the Irish language. The book was placed on the syllabus for the Matriculation (University entrance examination) in 1940, and later the Department of Education included it on the school syllabus for 1953–1954.\n\nHis next accomplishment Cruithneacht agus Ceannabháin, a collection of 13 short stories, was published by Talbot Press in 1940. In 1949, Ór na hAithinne was published.\n\nHis last great work, Gan Baisteadh, which is semi-autobiographical, contained 33 chapters each telling a different story. This was published by Sáirseal agus Dill in 1969.\n\nIn 1973 As an nGéibheann was published. This was a collection of the correspondence between Tomás and Máirtín Ó Cadhain, during Máirtín's time in prison.\n\nBairéad also received awards for other short stories, such as Second Prize in Class 4, Irish, Short Story for his entry 'Ruaidhri Ruadh, an Stiléara', in the Tailteann Literary Competitions in 1931, and an Oireachtas Certificate for first prize for the short story, 'Duais an Mhaolánaigh' in 1951. Bairéad's daughter, Treasa (the donor of the collection) also has in her possession a medal inscribed as follows, 'Aonach Tailteann 1932 (an Bhainnriogain Tailte).\n\nTomás Bairéad's main involvement in the 1916 Easter Rising was through the form of newspapers. His newspaper clippings include details of events in the Moycullen area during the Easter week of 1916, and also includes references to the 1919 local election. As well as those it also includes a transcript of the Irish Republican Brotherhood's oath. The collection is full with names associated with Irish republicanism and Irish politics, such as Liam Mellows, Seán McDermot, Éamon de Valera, and Jack Lynch. The letters from Bairéad's friend Morchadh Ó Dabhorionn, are fascinating as they reveal something resembling that of the loneliness of an Irish emigrant. The quote states \"…nearer to me than Érin go Brac with all its faults and shortcoming, it is to me the greatest and is closest to my heart. It was too bad that fate made me leave there for as you have said more than once before it was there that I did belong\"\n\n\nTomás Bairéad died in Bon Secours Hospital, Galway, on 26 October 1973. His death was the result of a short illness. Newspaper obituaries for Bairéad referred to him as a \"Noted Irish Scholar,\" and reported that his funeral was said in Irish. He is referred to as \"an duine de na scríbhneorí ba clúití a tháinig chugainn as Gaeltacht na Gaillimhe san aoís seo\" (Connacht Tribune), which can be translated to \"He was one of the most famous writers to have come to us from the Gaeltacht in Galway.\"\n\n1973 the year of Bairéad's death, was also the year 'As an nGéibheann' was published. This was a collection of the correspondence between Tomás and Máirtín Ó Cadhain, during Máirtín's time in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "815581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=815581", "title": "Winker Watson", "text": "Winker Watson\n\nWinker Watson is a British comic strip, created by Eric Roberts, which ran in the British comic book magazine \"The Dandy\" for almost half a century. It debuted in 1961 and only terminated its run in 2007. It was revived in 2012.\n\nWinker first appeared in the 1961 Dandy Book (published September 1960), and then appeared in the weekly Dandy on 1 April 1961 in issue Number 1010, and was quickly established as a character of great wit and appeal. Probably modeled on the Greyfriars stories and on Harry Wharton, Winker is a pupil of the Third Form of Greytowers Boarding School, he is known as the \"wangler\" of the school, constantly playing tricks and avoiding unpleasant school activities, much to the chagrin of his teacher Mr Clarence Creep (known to the boys as \"Creepy\"). Creep also has a sister called Agnes, who runs the nearby Trinity Hall Girls School, constructed in 1989 after the previous one burnt down. Around that area there also seems to be a St Jennifer's School for Girls, though this may just be a continuity error. Greytowers is next door to a police training school, although this was later reportedly abandoned and derelict.\n\nWinker Watson is a rare breed for a kids comic, as his stories are often continuous from issue to issue, including the long-running saga of his uncle Arnold arriving as Physical Training instructor and Winker's endless attempts to get rid of him. There was also the long-running story dealing with the unjust expulsion of Winker's younger brother Wally, and the elder sibling's attempts to keep him in the school until the end of term so their parents would know nothing until he had been exonerated. A third example is that of Mr Creep's own secret stowaway; the teacher's good-for-nothing twin brother John, who was on the run and needed somewhere to stay, forced his brother to let him hide in his own quarters within the school. Other storylines involved Slasher Scragg (a delinquent boy recruited by the school staff and posing as a pupil to act as their spy on Winker's activities) and 'the phantom of Greytowers' (an elusive figure causing trouble for which Winker and his friends often got the blame; it turned out to be a teenage boy in hiding after escaping from a young offenders' institute). The early 90s saw perhaps the most bizarre running story of the strip's history, as Greytowers was invaded by aliens, who used mind control powers to take over several characters and tried to cast the school adrift in space, until Winker used the aliens' allergy to pig swill to defeat them. Stories throughout 2003 and 2004 were reworkings of 1970s scripts concerning Winker's schemes to foil the plans of Robin Boodle, a consistently annoying rich boy, and who had been renamed Darby Doshman (in the late 1980s, there was a similar reworking in which the rich boy became Jonathan Dosh). At the same time, Classics from the Comics was reprinting the Robin Boodle strips, sometimes in the same week. An old days storyline of a circus moving in next to the school was also redone, although it is unknown if any specific strips were reworked.\n\nWinker's best pal is a lad called Tim Trott (nicknamed \"Trotty\" by Winker), though, apart from Winker's other friends Sally and Sandy, no other characters have emerged with any great regularity, despite the number of boys within the school. The headmaster has made frequent appearances, but mainly with Creep rather than any of the boys. Also occasionally seen is the school cook, nicknamed Cookie. In the late-1970s and early-1980s, Winker have frequent run-ins with three Sixth Formers called The Hoods. They dressed in long white coats and masks similar to the ones used by the Ku Klux Klan to hide their identities. They would steal and play tricks on the lower years and occasionally beat up Winker and his friends. As they were older and bigger than the third form boys, Winker would have to use his wits rather than his fists to fight against them. Though Winker often got into trouble, he always managed to wangle his way out of getting caned, well almost. Just the once he did get \"six\".\n\nComparisons with Just William are inevitable, including the fact that Winker is always in Form 3, no matter how much time passes, and stories often involve ends and beginnings of new school terms.\n\nThe strip was drawn by Eric Roberts until his death in 1982. Afterwards, the strip ran mostly as reprints for the rest of the decade (though Tom Williams and Evi De Bono drew strips for the Dandy annuals), until Terry Bave took over. For the first few years he drew in the style of Roberts (though his style was still fairly noticeable), but as the 90s progressed his style became more and more noticeable. He was drawing the strip in his own style. Bave continued drawing it until 2002, when Stevie White took over, producing the strip regularly until 2007, with further appearances in the 2012 Annual. Wilbur Dawbarn took over from the 2013 Annual, with an ironic, tongue-in-cheek take on the character.\n\nThe strip also has been a target of satire with wordplay by alternative comedians and other, involving phrases such as \"Wanker Watson\", and playing on the perception of boarding schools being full of sexually frustrated teenage aristocrats. For instance, \"Viz\" comic ran a parody strip called Wanker Watson. There is also a British racehorse called Winker Watson after the character.\n\n"}
{"id": "1581103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1581103", "title": "Zāl", "text": "Zāl\n\nZāl /zɒl/ (), alternate spelling Zaul, is a legendary Iranian king from Sistan, and is recognized as one of the greatest warriors of the \"Shahnameh\" epic. He is the father of the equally legendary Iranian hero, Rostam.\n\nZāl came from a family whose members were legendary warriors, who – for generations – served in the Persian army as great generals. His father, Sām and, later, his son, Rostam were also great heroes of Persia.\n\nZāl was born with white hair. Because of this, his parents called him Zāl. In the Persian language, \"zal\" refers to those who have albinism. Zāl was the son of Sām and the grandson of Nariman, both heroes of ancient Persia and protectors of \"Motherland Iran\" (\"Iran-zamin\"). Because of his defect, Zāl was rejected by his father, who blamed the evil spirit, Ahriman, for the appearance of his son. Zāl was abandoned when only an infant in the Alborz Mountain, which has the highest geographic peak in Iran. The mythical simurgh (a very large and wise bird which darkens the sky when flying, said to be related to the phoenix) found the baby and took him to her nest. Then after a time, passing caravans saw a noble young man, his chest a mountain of silver, his waist a reed, in the bird's nest. Rumor of this remarkable presence finally reached Sam, who was encouraged by his wise men to hasten to the scene. There, looking up, he saw his son, but when he tried to climb toward him, he could find no way to the lofty perch. He then prayed to God, asking forgiveness and help. When the simurgh saw Sam, she knew that he had come for her charge. The devoted bird gave the youth a plume, saying: \"Burn this if ever you have need of me, and may your heart never forget your nurse, whose heart breaks for love of you.\"\n\nThe mighty and wise simurgh gave Zāl these three feathers to burn when in trouble. She would appear as soon as the feathers were lit.\n\nAfter reuniting with his son, Sam made every effort to redress past wrongs. Manuchehr, too, gave the young man due regard. When Sam went off to wage war in Mazandaran, Zal, recommended by the elders, was given Sam's kingdom.\n\nSetting forth on a royal progress to view his eastern provinces, Zal at every stage held court and called for wine, harp, and minstrelsy. In Kabul, Mehrab, a vassal king descended from the evil Zahhak, paid homage with gifts of horses and slaves.\n\nLearning of Rudabeh, Mehrab's beautiful daughter, Zal lost his heart in love. But the affair was to progress slowly. Once even, Zal came near Rudabeh's palace where Rudabeh gave her tresses to Zal as a rope. However, he had brought his own, with which he scaled the walls. In a heat of passion, the lovers made love to each other and Rudabeh conceived. When her father came to know about this, he was outraged.\nZal rightly feared that his father and Manuchehr would disapprove his marrying a descendant of Zahhak, and while Mehrab generally approved of the young prince, some of Zal's actions made him bristle. Zal accordingly wrote a letter to his father and requested him to agree to his marriage, reminding him of the oath he had made to fulfill all his wishes.\n\nSam and the Mubeds, knowing that Rudabeh's father, chief of Kabul, was Babylonian from the family of Zahhak, did not approve of the marriage.\n\nFinally, the ruler Sam referred the question to astrologers, to know whether the marriage between Zal and Rudabeh would be prosperous or not. He was informed that the offspring of Zal and Rudabeh would be the conqueror of the world. When Zal arrived at the court of Manuchehr, he was instructed by the Emperor to showcase his skills. Zal was asked highly difficult questions and riddles by the emperor's wisest men, which Zal proceeded to answer correctly.\n\nThe emperor then held a tournament for Zal to prove himself against the royal warriors. Zal proved himself unparalleled in marksmanship (archery) and in fighting from horseback. The great warrior hurled his javelin with such strength that he was able to impale three shields at once. Finally Zal succeeded in defeating Menuchehr's warriors and lifted an enemy warrior off his horse with complete ease. Impressed, Menuchehr gave his approval of Zal and Rudabeh's marriage.\n\nThe marriage was celebrated in Kabul, where Zal and Rudabeh had first met each other.\n\nAfter a while, the marriage of Zal and Rudabeh was celebrated in Kabul, where they first met each other. Rostam, the great Persian hero, was born from their wedlock.\n\nZal used one of the feathers he received from the simurgh when his wife Rudabeh was in a difficult labour, and it looked like she would lose her life as well as the unborn baby. The simurgh appeared and instructed him to run a feather across his wife's belly like a knife. That is how Rostam was born.\n\nZal brought up and trained Rostam. He had another son with Rudabeh, named Zawara. He sent Rostam on many campaigns. Zal later ruled Zabulistan and served as a general and advisor to the king. He became famous for his military victories against the Turanians and against many barbarians.\n\nZal lived for more than three centuries, outliving his wife, Rudabeh. He sired a son, Shagad, with a servant woman. Although he was warned by counsellors that the child was evil, Zal refused to abandon, lest he commit the same mistake his father, Sam, did.\n\nWhen Esfandiyar challenged Rostam, Zal warned his son not to fight, as he was aware that Esfandiyar's murderer would be doomed. When Rostam returned, grieveously wounded, Zal healed him and summoned the Simurgh, to find out a way to defeat Esfandiyar.\n\nLater, Zal lived to see his sons kill each other, and the fall of his family. Esfandiyar's son, Bahman, avenged his father's death by invading Zabulistan. Zal was too old to fight, and Bahman threw the ageing king in prison, and took his treasures. Bahman then however released him after own uncle, Pashotan, intervened on Zal's behalf. Bahman later withdrew to Iran, and Zal once again ruled as king. The great king died later of natural causes, and his dynasty splintered.\n\n\n\n"}
