{"id": "53235542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53235542", "title": "4th National Geographic Bee", "text": "4th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 4th National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 21, 1992, sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The final competition was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. The winner was Lawson Fite of Shumway Middle School in Vancouver, Washington, who won a $25,000 college scholarship. The 2nd-place winner, Geoffrey Hatchard of Cresco, Pennsylvania, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, Michael Sherback of North Easton, Massachusetts, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "33215642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33215642", "title": "Al-Habash", "text": "Al-Habash\n\nAl-Habash was an ancient region in the Horn of Africa. Situated in the northern highlands of modern-day Eritrea and Ethiopia, it was inhabited by the \"Habash\" or Abyssinians, who were the forebears of the Habesha people.\n\nAlong with the neighboring \"Barbaroi\" (Berbers) of Barbara i.e. Somali people, the Habash are recorded in the 1st century Greek travelogue the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" as engaging in extensive commercial trade with Egypt, among other areas. The document also relates a strong connection with the \"Frankincense Country\" in the Mahra region of modern Yemen and a symbiotic relationship with the ancient Sabaeans, with whom the Habash were allied.\n\n"}
{"id": "25190574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25190574", "title": "Angolan montane forest-grassland mosaic", "text": "Angolan montane forest-grassland mosaic\n\nThe Angolan montane forest-grassland mosaic ecoregion is located on the east-facing inland side of the belt of mountains that stands parallel to the coast of Angola, 50–100 km inland.\n\nThese inland slopes are mostly covered with grassland and savanna. The woodland once covered a much larger area but today only patches survive, mainly in deep ravines and on the higher peaks in Huambo and Cuanza Sul provinces, such as Mount Moco, and on the Serra da Chela in Huíla Province.\n\nThe area has a wet summer and some mist and rainfall year-round so water is fairly abundant though in the dry season obtainable in some places only by digging in the sandy beds of the rivers.\nIn the dry season fires are common and the dry grasses burn and are then renewed. The trees are not so vulnerable to fire. The woodland flora has similarities with other mountain ranges spread across Africa. Plants on the inland ridge include the shrubs such as \"Erica\"s, sugarbushes (\"Protea\") and \"Cliffortia\"s, and grasses \"Themeda triandra\", \"Tristachya\"s, \"Hyparrhenia\"s, \"Festuca\"s, and \"Monocymbium\".\n\nThe fauna includes a number of bird species unique to the highlands such as Boulton's batis (\"Batis margaritae\"), Swierstra's francolin (\"Francolinus swierstra\"), Angola cave-chat (\"Xenocopsychus ansorgei\") grey-striped francolin (\"Francolinus griseostriatus\") and Angola slaty flycatcher (\"Dioptrornis brunneus\"). Some of these species have close relatives in other forests of the continent, more indication that this woodland was once much more widespread. The hills were home to large mammals such as zebras and antelopes until recently.\n\nThe highlands are one of the most heavily populated parts of Angola so the woodland is vulnerable to clearance for logging, while some of the grassland, except where it is very swampy, is being cleared for agriculture. Furthermore, the mountains have been the scene of much conflict and poverty during the Angolan Civil War and as a consequence the wildlife has been little studied or protected. Towns and cities in this region include Huambo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53952821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53952821", "title": "Buffalo Niagara Convention Center", "text": "Buffalo Niagara Convention Center\n\nThe Buffalo Niagara Convention Center is a convention center in Buffalo, New York. Opened in 1978 at 64,410 square feet, the convention center went under expansion in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "1978171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978171", "title": "Christopher Saxton", "text": "Christopher Saxton\n\nChristopher Saxton (c. 1540 – c. 1610) was an English cartographer who produced the first county maps of England and Wales.\n\nSaxton was probably born in Sowood, Ossett in the parish of Dewsbury, in the West Riding of Yorkshire in either 1542 or 1544. His family subsequently moved to the hamlet of Dunningley near Tingley in the parish of Woodkirk where the Saxton name is recorded in 1567. It is speculated that Saxton may have attended the predecessor school to Queen Elizabeth Grammar School, Wakefield and also speculated that he was a student at Cambridge University but neither is corroborated. It is most likely that John Rudd, the vicar of Dewsbury and Thornhill, a keen cartographer passed his skills to Saxton.\n\nSaxton married and had three children. Robert, born in 1585 was his father's assistant in 1601 and drew a map of Snapethorpe in Wakefield when it was surveyed by his father. Robert was commissioned to survey Sandal Magna in 1607. Christopher Saxton died in either 1610 or 1611.\n\nMap making became increasingly common in the reign of Elizabeth I made possible by advances in surveying technology and printing from engraved copper plates. Accurate mapping of the whole country became increasingly important. Lord Burghley was instrumental in ensuring that a court official, Thomas Seckford of Woodbridge, Suffolk, financed the commission. In 1574 Saxton began the survey of England. In consideration of the expenses involved, Queen Elizabeth granted him a lease on lands at Grigstone Manor in Suffolk. The Welsh survey began in 1577. Surveying the country was a significant undertaking but the first plates were engraved by 1574 and in 1578 the survey was complete. As the task was finished in a short timespan is possible that Saxton used some of John Rudd's earlier work. Individual county sheets were issued before the completed survey was issued as an atlas in 1579. The proofs were presented to Lord Burghley who compiled them into an atlas of his own.\n\nThe maps were produced in the \"Atlas of the Counties of England and Wales\" published in 1579, the first atlas of any country. It contained 35 maps, each bearing the arms of Elizabeth I and Thomas Seckford, Saxton's patron. The maps show hills and mountains but do not provide precise information as to their location or altitude. A variety of symbols show buildings and settlements. All the maps are dated except for Northumberland. Five counties, Cornwall, Essex, Hertfordshire, The Suffolk and Norfolk maps show the division into hundreds. The atlas was a commercial success, prompting other cartographers including John Speed, John Norton, and Michael Drayton to attempt similar enterprises, adding to and adapting Saxton's work.\n\nThe maps drawn by Saxton were engraved by Augustine Ryther, Remigius Hogenberg, William Hole, William Kip, Leonard Terwoort of Antwerp, Nicholas Reynold of London, Cornelius Hogius, and Francis Scatter. The engravers were of Dutch or Flemish origin. There is no evidence on the maps that Saxton engraved them himself, but according to one account, he engraved those of the Welsh counties and Herefordshire. Saxton obtained a license to sell the maps for a term of ten years.\n\nJohn Dee, warden of the Manchester's collegiate church employed Saxton to survey Manchester's parish boundaries in 1596 but no copy has survived. Chetham's Library in Manchester has a copy of the atlas, as does the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington, D.C.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "21447866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21447866", "title": "Complete spatial randomness", "text": "Complete spatial randomness\n\nComplete spatial randomness (CSR) describes a point process whereby point events occur within a given study area in a completely random fashion. It is synonymous with a homogeneous spatial Poisson process. Such a process is modeled using only one parameter formula_1, i.e. the density of points within the defined area. The term complete spatial randomness is commonly used in Applied Statistics in the context of examining certain point patterns, whereas in most other statistical contexts it is referred to the concept of a spatial Poisson process.\n\nData in the form of a set of points, irregularly distributed within a region of space, arise in many different contexts; examples include locations of trees in a forest, of nests of birds, of nuclei in tissue, of ill people in a population at risk. We call any such data-set a spatial point pattern and refer to the locations as events, to distinguish these from arbitrary points of the region in question. The hypothesis of complete spatial randomness for a spatial point pattern asserts that the number of events in any region follows a Poisson distribution with given mean count per uniform subdivision. The events of a pattern are independently and uniformly distributed over space; in other words, the events are equally likely to occur anywhere and do not interact with each other.\n\n\"Uniform\" is used in the sense of following a uniform probability distribution across the study region, not in the sense of “evenly” dispersed across the study region. There are no interactions amongst the events, as the intensity of events does not vary over the plane. For example, the independence assumption would be violated if the existence of one event either encouraged or inhibited the occurrence of other events in the neighborhood.\n\nThe probability of finding exactly formula_2 points within the area formula_3 with event density formula_1 is therefore:\n\nThe first moment of which, the average number of points in the area, is simply formula_6. This value is intuitive as it is the Poisson rate parameter.\n\nThe probability of locating the formula_7 neighbor of any given point, at some radial distance formula_8 is:\n\nwhere formula_10 is the number of dimensions, formula_11 is a density-dependent parameter given by formula_12 and formula_13 is the gamma function, which when its argument is integer, is simply the factorial function.\n\nThe expected value of formula_14 can be derived via the use of the gamma function using statistical moments. The first moment is the mean distance between randomly distributed particles in formula_10 dimensions.\n\nThe study of CSR is essential for the comparison of measured point data from experimental sources. As a statistical testing method, the test for CSR has many applications in the social sciences and in astronomical examinations. CSR is often the standard against which data sets are tested. Roughly described one approach to test the CSR hypothesis is the following:\n\nIn cases where computing test statistics analytically is difficult, numerical methods, such as the Monte Carlo method simulation are employed, by simulating a stochastic process a large number of times. \n\n"}
{"id": "723357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723357", "title": "Dalby Söderskog National Park", "text": "Dalby Söderskog National Park\n\nDalby Söderskog is a small national park in the province of Scania in southern Sweden, situated in the municipality of Lund, near Dalby. It has an area of and consists of broadleaf forest. It was established in 1918, when it was thought to be a unique remnant of primeval forest. In fact, the area has previously been used for pasture. The ground contains much limestone and chalk, which makes the flora rich. In particular, there are many spring flowers. An earth bank of unknown origin, possibly the ruins of an ancient fort, surrounds parts of the park. The national park encompasses the southern part of Dalby hage, while the northern parts (Dalby Norreskog and Hästhagen) form a nature reserve.\n\n"}
{"id": "18028729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18028729", "title": "David Ward (university president)", "text": "David Ward (university president)\n\nDavid Ward (born July 8, 1938, in Manchester, England) was the president of the American Council on Education from September 2001 to September 2008. In 2011 he was appointed Interim Chancellor of the University of Wisconsin–Madison, where he served a prior term as Chancellor from 1993 to 2001, Provost and Vice-Chancellor for Academic Affairs from 1989 to 2003, and Associate Dean of the Graduate School from 1980 to 1987. \n\nA leading scholar in urban geography, Ward received his B.A.(1959) and M.A.(1961) from the University of Leeds before moving to the University of Wisconsin–Madison on a Fulbright Travel Award, and earning his doctorate there in 1963. After teaching at Carleton University and the University of British Columbia, Ward returned to UW–Madison in 1966.\n\nWard was born and raised in Manchester. He is married with two sons and six grandchildren. When he is not in Madison, he resides in Washington, DC.\n\nAs chancellor, Ward oversaw a major overhaul of UW–Madison's information technology infrastructure, as well as the development of a cluster-hiring program called \"The Madison Initiative Investment Plan\". Ward's chancellorship also saw the creation of new undergraduate residential learning communities on campus and the construction and opening of the Kohl Center. \n\nWard has served as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the University Corporation for Advanced Internet Development, Chairman of the Government Relations Council of the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges, and served on the Committee on Undergraduate Education of the Association of American Universities, the Science Coalition, and the Kellogg Commission on the Future of State and Land-Grant Universities.\n\nIn 2011, following Carolyn \"Biddy\" Martin's resignation to become president of Amherst College, Ward was appointed interim chancellor of UW-Madison to serve until a permanent replacement could be found. \n"}
{"id": "3081003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3081003", "title": "Fauna and Flora International", "text": "Fauna and Flora International\n\nFauna & Flora International (FFI), formerly the Fauna and Flora Preservation Society, is an international conservation charity and non-governmental organization.\n\nFFI was founded in 1903 as the Society for the Preservation of the Wild Fauna of the Empire by a group of British naturalists and American statesmen in Africa. It later became the Fauna Preservation Society, before being renamed \"Fauna and Flora Preservation Society\" in 1981. The goal of the society was to safeguard the future of southern Africa’s large mammal populations, which had declined alarmingly due to over-hunting and habitat encroachment. Working in tandem with landowners, government and sport hunters, the Society helped pass legislation which controlled hunting in vast stretches of East Africa and South Africa. This ultimately paved the way for the formation of National Parks, such as Kruger National Park and Serengeti National Park.\n\nFFI has been referred to by many historians as the world's first conservation society, and the society's early work in Africa was also trend-setting in ecotourism.\n\nThe Society's scientific journal – \"Oryx – The International Journal of Conservation\" – is published on its behalf by Cambridge University Press.\n\nFFI has a seven-step approach to conserving biodiversity:\n\nIn line with its seven-step approach to conservation, Fauna & Flora International has endorsed the Forests Now Declaration, which calls for new market based mechanisms to protect tropical forests.\n\nFauna & Flora International is constituted under English law as a company limited by guarantee and is a registered charity with its head office in Cambridge. FFI has sister organisations in the U.S. and Australia, and a subsidiary in Singapore.\n\nThe logo of the society is the Arabian oryx, after the very successful Operation Oryx, a flagship Arabian oryx captive breeding project undertaken by the society.\n\nQueen Elizabeth II is FFI's patron, and Princess Laurentien of the Netherlands is the president of the organization. FFI also has a number of high-profile vice-presidents, including Sir David Attenborough, David Bellamy, Stephen Fry, Charlotte Uhlenbroek, Rove McManus, Judi Dench and Lord Browne of Madingley.\n\nFFI has members in over 80 countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35459102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35459102", "title": "Filippo Ferrari", "text": "Filippo Ferrari\n\nFilippo Ferrari (Philippus Ferrarius) (1551 – 1626) was an Italian Servite monk and scholar, known as a geographer, and also noted as a hagiographer.\nHe was born at Oviglio in Piedmont. It is near Alessandria, and he was nicknamed \"Alessandrino\" (Philippus Ferrarius Alexandrinus). He taught mathematics for 48 years at the University of Pavia.\n\nFerrari was prior general of his order from 1604 to 1609, and vicar general in 1624/5. He was therefore head of the Servites at the time of the Venetian Interdict, and was consulted by Paolo Sarpi in Venice. A detailed account of Ferrari's dealings with Pope Paul V during the confrontation of those years was given by Fulgenzio Micanzio, Sarpi's ally. It was with Ferrari's approval that Sarpi took up the appointment as theological consultant to Venice on 28 January 1606.\n\nFerrari published his \"Epitome Geographicum\" in 1605. His \"Lexicon Geographicum\" was published internationally in a number of later editions: edited by William Dillingham (London, 1657), and by Michel Antoine Baudrand (Paris, 1670). It was used in the \"Dictionarium Historicum\", (Oxford, 1670) of Nicholas Lloyd.\n\nOther works included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41554383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41554383", "title": "Fladen Ground", "text": "Fladen Ground\n\nFladen Ground is an area in the Scottish sector of the North Sea, between Scotland and Norway, about northeast of Aberdeen. The Fair Isle current and East Shetland Islands Atlantic inflow form an eddy, creating a weak, anti-clockwise rotating vortex that is evidenced in the surface form of the seabed. Due to stratification of the water column in the summer months, seasonal variation of the temperature in deep water is low (). Average water depth is in the range of , and the mostly muddy sea floor has been created by incoming sediments from the surrounding sea areas. The dominant benthic animals are polychaetes and shellfish and other seafoods are common.\n\nFladen Ground is rich in oil and natural gas and offers good fishing. Scottish vessels catch low-fat fish species, and Norway lobster. Danish and English vessels catch Northern prawn.\nDogger Bank for links to similar places\n"}
{"id": "11045799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11045799", "title": "Grove of fetters", "text": "Grove of fetters\n\nA grove of fetters (Old Norse: Fjöturlundr) is mentioned in the Eddic poem \"Helgakviða Hundingsbana II\":\n\nThe description is often compared with a section by Tacitus on a sacred grove of the Semnones:\n\nDue to the resemblance between the two texts, some scholars have identified the deity of the Semnones with an early form of Odin. Others suggest an early form of Týr may have been involved, as he is the Germanic continuation of Proto-Indo-European sky-father '*dyeus', whose cognates are Jupiter and Zeus. Furthermore, Tacitus reports that the Germanic peoples of his age regarded a \"Tuisco\" or \"Tuisto\" as the progenitor of mankind, which is sometimes surmised to be a Latinisation of Proto-Germanic '*Tiwaz', which later became \"Týr\" in Old Norse. Ultimately, evidence is insufficient for certain identification.\n\n\nThe following works are listed in Rudolf Simek's \"Dictionary\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4945733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4945733", "title": "Health authority", "text": "Health authority\n\nBetween 1996 and 2002 the English National Health Service was organised under the following health authorities.\n\nIn 2002 the health authorities were reorganised and their boundaries changed to constitute 28 strategic health authorities, which were reduced in number to 10 in 2006.\n\nPrior to 1996 the service was organised according to regional health authorities.\n\n‡ also included part of High Peak in Derbyshire (East Midlands)\n\nThese Health Authorities were established in 1996. There were a few changes between then and the final form shown above. There were originally separate authorities for Barnet and Enfield & Haringey, for Bexley & Greenwich and Bromley, for East & North Hertfordshire and South Hertfordshire, and for the Isle of Wight & Portsmouth and South-East Hampshire. Also, the area of Norfolk and Cambridgeshire was partitioned between three authorities : Cambridge & Huntingdon, East Norfolk, and North West Anglia. North West Anglia included from Cambridgeshire: Peterborough, Fenland, part of Huntingdonshire, and from Norfolk: King's Lynn and West Norfolk and part of Breckland. \n\nAlso, \"East Riding and Hull\" was originally known as \"East Riding\", , \"County Durham and Darlington\" was originally known as \"County Durham\"\n"}
{"id": "62142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62142", "title": "Horn of Africa", "text": "Horn of Africa\n\nThe Horn of Africa is a peninsula in East Africa that juts into the Guardafui Channel, lying along the southern side of the Gulf of Aden and the southwest Red Sea. The area is the easternmost projection of the African continent. The Horn of Africa denotes the region containing the countries of Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Somalia.\n\nThis peninsula is known by various names. In ancient and medieval times, the Horn of Africa was referred to as the \"Bilad al Barbar\" (\"Land of the Berbers\"). It is also known as the \"Somali peninsula\", or in the Somali language, \"Geeska Afrika\", \"Jasiiradda Soomaali\" or \"Gacandhulka Soomaali\". In other languages that are local or adjacent to the Horn of Africa, it is known as የአፍሪካ ቀንድ yäafrika qänd in Amharic, القرن الأفريقي‎ al-qarn al-'afrīqī in Arabic, Gaaffaa Afriikaa in Oromo and ቀርኒ ኣፍሪቃ in Tigrinya. The Horn of Africa is sometimes shortened to \"HOA\". The Horn of Africa is quite commonly designated simply the \"Horn\", while inhabitants are sometimes colloquially referred to as \"Horn Africans\". Sometimes the term \"Greater Horn of Africa\" is used, either to be inclusive of neighbouring northeast African countries, or to distinguish the broader geopolitical definition of the Horn of Africa from narrower peninsular definitions. Ancient Greeks and Romans referred to the Somali peninsula as Regio Aromatica or Regio Cinnamonifora due to the aromatic plants, or Regio Incognita owing to its unchartered territory.\n\nShell middens 125,000 years old have been found in Eritrea, indicating the diet of early humans included seafood obtained by beachcombing.\n\nAccording to both genetic and fossil evidence, archaic Homo sapiens evolved into anatomically modern humans solely in the Horn of Africa between 200,000 and 100,000 years ago and have dispersed from the Horn of Africa. The recognition of \"Homo sapien idaltu\" as a valid subspecies of the anatomically modern human lineage would justify the description of contemporary humans with the subspecies name \"H. s. sapiens\". Because of their early dating and unique physical characteristics, they represent the immediate ancestors of anatomically modern humans, as suggested by the Out-of-Africa theory.\n\nToday at the Bab-el-Mandeb straits, the Red Sea is about 12 miles (20 kilometres) wide, but 50,000 years ago it was much narrower and sea levels were 70 meters lower. Though the straits were never completely closed, there may have been islands in between which could be reached using simple rafts.\n\nAccording to linguists, the Horn of Africa is the original homeland of the proto-Afroasiatic language as it is considered the region the Afroasiatic language family displays the greatest diversity, a sign often viewed to represent a geographic origin. The Horn of Africa is also the place where the haplogroup E1b1b originated from, Christopher Ehret and Shomarka Keita have suggested that the geography of the E1b1b lineage coincides with the distribution of the Afroasiatic languages. Genetic analysis done on the Afroasiatic speaking population further found that a pre-agricultural back-to-Africa migration into the Horn of Africa occurred through Egypt 23,000 years ago and it brought a non-African ancestry dubbed Ethio-Somali in the region.\n\nTogether with northern Somalia, Djibouti, the Red Sea coast of Sudan and Eritrea is considered the most likely location of the land known to the ancient Egyptians as \"Punt\" (or \"Ta Netjeru,\" meaning god's land), whose first mention dates to the 25th century BCE.\n\nDʿmt was a kingdom located in Eritrea and northern Ethiopia, which existed during the 8th and 7th centuries BCE. With its capital at Yeha, the kingdom developed irrigation schemes, used plows, grew millet, and made iron tools and weapons. After the fall of Dʿmt in the 5th century BCE, the plateau came to be dominated by smaller successor kingdoms, until the rise of one of these kingdoms during the 1st century, the Aksumite Kingdom, which was able to reunite the area.\n\nThe Kingdom of Aksum (also known as the Aksumite Empire) was an ancient state located in the Eritrean highlands and Ethiopian highlands, which thrived between the 1st and 7th centuries CE. A major player in the commerce between the Roman Empire and Ancient India, Aksum's rulers facilitated trade by minting their own currency. The state also established its hegemony over the declining Kingdom of Kush and regularly entered the politics of the kingdoms on the Arabian peninsula, eventually extending its rule over the region with the conquest of the Himyarite Kingdom. Under Ezana (fl. 320–360), the kingdom of Aksum became the first major empire to adopt Christianity, and was named by Mani as one of the four great powers of his time, along with Persia, Rome and China.\n\nNorthern Somalia was an important link in the Horn, connecting the region's commerce with the rest of the ancient world. Somali sailors and merchants were the main suppliers of frankincense, myrrh and spices, all of which were valuable luxuries to the Ancient Egyptians, Phoenicians, Mycenaeans, Babylonians and Romans. The Romans consequently began to refer to the region as \"Regio Aromatica\". In the classical era, several flourishing Somali city-states such as Opone, Mosylon and Malao also competed with the Sabaeans, Parthians and Axumites for the rich Indo-Greco-Roman trade.\n\nThe birth of Islam opposite the Horn's Red Sea coast meant that local merchants and sailors living on the Arabian Peninsula gradually came under the influence of the new religion through their converted Arab Muslim trading partners. With the migration of Muslim families from the Islamic world to the Horn in the early centuries of Islam, and the peaceful conversion of the local population by Muslim scholars in the following centuries, the ancient city-states eventually transformed into Islamic Mogadishu, Berbera, Zeila, Barawa and Merka, which were part of the \"Berber civilization\". The city of Mogadishu came to be known as the \"City of Islam\" and controlled the East African gold trade for several centuries.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, several powerful empires dominated the regional trade in the Horn, including the Adal Sultanate, the Ajuran Sultanate, the Warsangali Sultanate, the Zagwe dynasty, and the Sultanate of the Geledi.\n\nThe Sultanate of Showa, established in 896, was one of the oldest local Islamic states. It was centered in the former Shewa province in central Ethiopia. The polity was succeeded by the Sultanate of Ifat around 1285. Ifat was governed from its capital at Zeila in northern Somalia and was the easternmost district of the former Shewa Sultanate.\n\nThe Adal Sultanate was a medieval multi-ethnic Muslim state centered in the Horn region. At its height, it controlled large parts of Somalia, Ethiopia, Djibouti and Eritrea. Many of the historic cities in the region, such as Amud, Maduna, Abasa, Berbera, Zeila and Harar, flourished during the kingdom's golden age. This period that left behind numerous courtyard houses, mosques, shrines and walled enclosures. Under the leadership of rulers such as Sabr ad-Din II, Mansur ad-Din, Jamal ad-Din II, Shams ad-Din, General Mahfuz and Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi, Adalite armies continued the struggle against the Solomonic dynasty, a campaign historically known as the Conquest of Abyssinia or \"Futuh al Habash\".\n\nThe Warsangali Sultanate was a kingdom centered in northeastern and in some parts of southeastern Somalia. It was one of the largest sultanates ever established in the territory, and, at the height of its power, included the Sanaag region and parts of the northeastern Bari region of the country, an area historically known as Maakhir or the \"Maakhir Coast\". The Sultanate was founded in the late 13th century in northern Somalia by a group of Somalis from the Warsangali branch of the Darod clan, and was ruled by the descendants of the Gerad Dhidhin.\n\nThrough a strong centralized administration and an aggressive military stance towards invaders, the Ajuran Sultanate successfully resisted an Oromo invasion from the west and a Portuguese incursion from the east during the Gaal Madow and the Ajuran-Portuguese wars. Trading routes dating from the ancient and early medieval periods of Somali maritime enterprise were also strengthened or re-established, and the state left behind an extensive architectural legacy. Many of the hundreds of ruined castles and fortresses that dot the landscape of Somalia today are attributed to Ajuran engineers, including a lot of the pillar tomb fields, necropolises and ruined cities built during that era. The royal family, the House of Gareen, also expanded its territories and established its hegemonic rule through a skillful combination of warfare, trade linkages and alliances.\n\nThe Zagwe dynasty ruled many parts of modern Ethiopia and Eritrea from approximately 1137 to 1270. The name of the dynasty comes from the Cushitic-speaking Agaw people of northern Ethiopia. From 1270 onwards for many centuries, the Solomonic dynasty ruled the Ethiopian Empire.\n\nIn the early 15th century, Ethiopia sought to make diplomatic contact with European kingdoms for the first time since Aksumite times. A letter from King Henry IV of England to the Emperor of Abyssinia survives. In 1428, the Emperor Yeshaq sent two emissaries to Alfonso V of Aragon, who sent return emissaries who failed to complete the return trip.\n\nThe first continuous relations with a European country began in 1508 with Portugal under Emperor Lebna Dengel, who had just inherited the throne from his father. This proved to be an important development, for when Abyssinia was subjected to the attacks of the Adal Sultanate General and Imam Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi (called \"\"Gurey\" or \"Grañ\"\", both meaning \"the Left-handed\"), Portugal assisted the Ethiopian emperor by sending weapons and four hundred men, who helped his son Gelawdewos defeat Ahmad and re-establish his rule. This Abyssinian–Adal War was also one of the first proxy wars in the region as the Ottoman Empire, and Portugal took sides in the conflict.\n\nWhen Emperor Susenyos converted to Roman Catholicism in 1624, years of revolt and civil unrest followed resulting in thousands of deaths. The Jesuit missionaries had offended the Orthodox faith of the local Ethiopians. On June 25, 1632, Susenyos's son, Emperor Fasilides, declared the state religion to again be Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity, and expelled the Jesuit missionaries and other Europeans.\n\nDuring the end of 18th and the beginning of 19th century the Yejju dynasty (more specifically, the Warasek) ruled north Ethiopia changing the official language of Amhara people to Afaan Oromo, including inside the court of Gondar which was capital of the empire. Founded by Ali I of Yejju several successive descendants of him and Abba Seru Gwangul ruled with their army coming from mainly their clan the Yejju Oromo tribe as well as Wollo and Raya Oromo.\n\nThe Sultanate of the Geledi was a Somali kingdom administered by the Gobroon dynasty, which ruled parts of the Horn of Africa during the 18th and 19th centuries. It was established by the Ajuran soldier Ibrahim Adeer, who had defeated various vassals of the Ajuran Empire and established the \"House of Gobroon\". The dynasty reached its apex under the successive reigns of Sultan Yusuf Mahamud Ibrahim, who successfully consolidated Gobroon power during the Bardera wars, and Sultan Ahmed Yusuf, who forced regional powers such as the Omani Empire to submit tribute.\n\nThe Majeerteen Sultanate (Migiurtinia) was another prominent Somali sultanate based in the Horn region. Ruled by King Osman Mahamuud during its golden age, it controlled much of northeastern and central Somalia in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The polity had all of the organs of an integrated modern state and maintained a robust trading network. It also entered into treaties with foreign powers and exerted strong centralized authority on the domestic front. Much of the Sultanate's former domain is today coextensive with the autonomous Puntland region in northeastern Somalia.\n\nThe Sultanate of Hobyo was a 19th-century Somali kingdom founded by Sultan Yusuf Ali Kenadid. Initially, Kenadid's goal was to seize control of the neighboring Majeerteen Sultanate, which was then ruled by his cousin Boqor Osman Mahamuud. However, he was unsuccessful in this endeavor, and was eventually forced into exile in Yemen. A decade later, in the 1870s, Kenadid returned from the Arabian Peninsula with a band of Hadhrami musketeers and a group of devoted lieutenants. With their assistance, he managed to establish the kingdom of Hobyo, which would rule much of northeastern and central Somalia during the early modern period.\n\nIn the period following the opening of the Suez canal in 1869, when European powers scrambled for territory in Africa and tried to establish coaling stations for their ships, Italy invaded and occupied Eritrea. On January 1, 1890, Eritrea officially became a colony of Italy. In 1896 further Italian incursion into the horn was decisively halted by Ethiopian forces. By 1936 however, Eritrea became a province of Italian East Africa (Africa Orientale Italiana), along with Ethiopia and Italian Somaliland. By 1941, Eritrea had about 760,000 inhabitants, including 70,000 Italians. The Commonwealth armed forces, along with the Ethiopian patriotic resistance, expelled those of Italy in 1941, and took over the area's administration. The British continued to administer the territory under a UN Mandate until 1951, when Eritrea was federated with Ethiopia, as per UN resolution 390(A) and under the prompting of the United States adopted in December 1950.\n\nThe strategic importance of Eritrea, due to its Red Sea coastline and mineral resources, was the main cause for the federation with Ethiopia, which in turn led to Eritrea's annexation as Ethiopia's 14th province in 1952. This was the culmination of a gradual process of takeover by the Ethiopian authorities, a process which included a 1959 edict establishing the compulsory teaching of Amharic, the main language of Ethiopia, in all Eritrean schools. The lack of regard for the Eritrean population led to the formation of an independence movement in the early 1960s (1961), which erupted into a 30-year war against successive Ethiopian governments that ended in 1991. Following a UN-supervised referendum in Eritrea (dubbed UNOVER) in which the Eritrean people overwhelmingly voted for independence, Eritrea declared its independence and gained international recognition in 1993. In 1998, a border dispute with Ethiopia led to the Eritrean-Ethiopian War.\n\nFrom 1862 until 1894, the land to the north of the Gulf of Tadjoura situated in modern-day Djibouti was called \"Obock\" and was ruled by Somali and Afar Sultans, local authorities with whom France signed various treaties between 1883 and 1887 to first gain a foothold in the region. In 1894, Léonce Lagarde established a permanent French administration in the city of Djibouti and named the region \"Côte française des Somalis\" (French Somaliland), a name which continued until 1967.\n\nIn 1958, on the eve of neighboring Somalia's independence in 1960, a referendum was held in the territory to decide whether or not to join the Somali Republic or to remain with France. The referendum turned out in favour of a continued association with France, partly due to a combined yes vote by the sizable Afar ethnic group and resident Europeans. There was also reports of widespread vote rigging, with the French expelling thousands of Somalis before the referendum reached the polls. The majority of those who voted no were Somalis who were strongly in favour of joining a united Somalia, as had been proposed by Mahmoud Harbi, Vice President of the Government Council. Harbi was killed in a plane crash two years later. Djibouti finally gained its independence from France in 1977, and Hassan Gouled Aptidon, a Somali politician who had campaigned for a yes vote in the referendum of 1958, eventually wound up as the nation's first president (1977–1999). In early 2011, the Djiboutian citizenry took part in a series of protests against the long-serving government, which were associated with the larger Arab Spring demonstrations. The unrest eventually subsided by April of the year, and Djibouti's ruling People's Rally for Progress party was re-elected to office.\n\nMohammed Abdullah Hassan's Dervish State successfully repulsed the British Empire four times and forced it to retreat to the coastal region. Due to these successful expeditions, the Dervish State was recognized as an ally by the Ottoman and German Empires. The Turks also named Hassan Emir of the Somali nation, and the Germans promised to officially recognize any territories the Dervishes were to acquire. After a quarter of a century of holding the British at bay, the Dervishes were finally defeated in 1920 as a direct consequence of Britain's new policy of aerial bombardment. As a result of this bombardment, former Dervish territories were turned into a protectorate of Britain. Italy faced similar opposition from Somali Sultans and armies, and did not acquire full control of parts of modern Somalia until the Fascist era in late 1927. This occupation lasted until 1941, and was replaced by a British military administration. Northern Somalia would remain a protectorate, while southern Somalia became a trusteeship. The Union of the two regions in 1960 formed the Somali Republic. A civilian government was formed, and on July 20, 1961, through a popular referendum, a new constitution that had first been drafted the year before was ratified.\n\nDue to its longstanding ties with the Arab world, Somalia was accepted in 1974 as a member of the Arab League. During the same year, the nation's former socialist administration also chaired the Organization of African Unity, the predecessor of the African Union. In 1991, the Somali Civil War broke out, which saw the collapse of the federal government and the emergence of numerous autonomous polities, including the Puntland administration in the northeast and Somaliland, an unrecognised self-declared sovereign state that is internationally recognised as an autonomous region of Somalia, in the northwest. Somalia's inhabitants subsequently reverted to local forms of conflict resolution, either secular, Islamic or customary law, with a provision for appeal of all sentences. A Transitional Federal Government was subsequently created in 2004. The Federal Government of Somalia was established on August 20, 2012, concurrent with the end of the TFG's interim mandate. It represents the first permanent central government in the country since the start of the civil war. The Federal Parliament of Somalia serves as the government's legislative branch.\n\nModern Ethiopia and its current borders are a result of significant territorial reduction in the north and expansion in the east and south toward its present borders, owing to several migrations, commercial integration, treaties as well as conquests, particularly by Emperor Menelik II and Ras Gobena. From the central province of Shoa, Menelik set off to subjugate and incorporate ‘the lands and people of the South, East and West into an empire.’ He did this with the help of Ras Gobena's Shewan Oromo militia, began expanding his kingdom to the south and east, expanding into areas that had not been held since the invasion of Ahmad ibn Ibrihim al-Ghazi, and other areas that had never been under his rule, resulting in the borders of Ethiopia of today. Menelik had signed the Treaty of Wichale with Italy in May 1889, in which Italy would recognize Ethiopia’s sovereignty so long as Italy could control a small area of northern Tigray (part of modern Eritrea). In return Italy, was to provide Menelik with arms and support him as emperor. The Italians used the time between the signing of the treaty and its ratification by the Italian government to further expand their territorial claims. Italy began a state funded program of resettlement for landless Italians in Eritrea, which increased tensions between the Eritrean peasants and the Italians. This conflict erupted in the Battle of Adwa on 1 March 1896, in which Italy’s colonial forces were defeated by the Ethiopians.\n\nThe early 20th century in Ethiopia was marked by the reign of Emperor Haile Selassie I, who came to power after Iyasu V was deposed. In 1935, Haile Selassie's troops fought and lost the Second Italo-Abyssinian War, after which point Italy annexed Ethiopia to Italian East Africa. Haile Selassie subsequently appealed to the League of Nations, delivering an address that made him a worldwide figure and 1935's \"Time\" magazine Man of the Year. Following the entry of Italy into World War II, British Empire forces, together with patriot Ethiopian fighters, liberated Ethiopia in the course of the East African Campaign in 1941.\n\nHaile Selassie's reign came to an end in 1974, when a Soviet-backed Marxist-Leninist military junta, the Derg led by Mengistu Haile Mariam, deposed him, and established a one-party communist state, which was called the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. In July 1977, the Ogaden War broke out after the government of President of Somalia Siad Barre sought to incorporate the predominantly Somali-inhabited Ogaden region into a Pan-Somali Greater Somalia. By September 1977, the Somali army controlled 90% of the Ogaden, but was later forced to withdraw after Ethiopia's Derg received assistance from the USSR, Cuba, South Yemen, East Germany and North Korea, including around 15,000 Cuban combat troops.\n\nIn 1989, the Tigrayan Peoples' Liberation Front (TPLF) merged with other ethnically based opposition movements to form the Ethiopian Peoples' Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), and eventually managed to overthrow Mengistu's dictatorial regime in 1991. A transitional government, composed of an 87-member Council of Representatives and guided by a national charter that functioned as a transitional constitution, was then set up. The first free and democratic election took place later in 1995, when Ethiopia's longest-serving Prime Minister Meles Zenawi was elected to office. As with other nations in the Horn region, Ethiopia maintained its historically close relations with countries in the Middle East during this period of change. Zenawi died in 2012, but his Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) party remains the ruling political coalition in Ethiopia.\n\nThe Horn of Africa is almost equidistant from the equator and the Tropic of Cancer. It consists chiefly of mountains uplifted through the formation of the Great Rift Valley, a fissure in the Earth's crust extending from Turkey to Mozambique and marking the separation of the African and Arabian tectonic plates. Mostly mountainous, the region arose through faults resulting from the Rift Valley.\n\nGeologically, the Horn and Yemen once formed a single landmass around 18 million years ago, before the Gulf of Aden rifted and separated the Horn region from the Arabian Peninsula. The Somali Plate is bounded on the west by the East African Rift, which stretches south from the triple junction in the Afar Depression, and an undersea continuation of the rift extending southward offshore. The northern boundary is the Aden Ridge along the coast of Saudi Arabia. The eastern boundary is the Central Indian Ridge, the northern portion of which is also known as the Carlsberg Ridge. The southern boundary is the Southwest Indian Ridge.\n\nExtensive glaciers once covered the Simien and Bale Mountains but melted at the beginning of the Holocene. The mountains descend in a huge escarpment to the Red Sea and more steadily to the Indian Ocean. Socotra is a small island in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Somalia. Its size is 3,600 km (1,390 sq mi) and it is a territory of Yemen.\n\nThe lowlands of the Horn are generally arid in spite of their proximity to the equator. This is because the winds of the tropical monsoons that give seasonal rains to the Sahel and the Sudan blow from the west. Consequently, they lose their moisture before reaching Djibouti and Somalia, with the result that most of the Horn receives little rainfall during the monsoon season.\n\nIn the mountains of Ethiopia, many areas receive over 2,000 mm (80 in) per year, and even Asmara receives an average of 570 mm (23 in). This rainfall is the sole source of water for many areas outside Ethiopia, including Egypt. In the winter, the northeasterly trade winds do not provide any moisture except in mountainous areas of northern Somalia, where rainfall in late autumn can produce annual totals as high as 500 mm (20 in). On the eastern coast, a strong upwelling and the fact that the winds blow parallel to the coast means annual rainfall can be as low as 50 mm (2 in).\n\nThe climate in Ethiopia varies considerably between regions. It is generally hotter in the lowlands and temperate on the plateau. At Addis Ababa, which ranges from , maximum temperature is and minimum . The weather is usually sunny and dry, but the short (\"belg\") rains occur from February to April and the big (\"meher\") rains from mid-June to mid-September. The Danakil Desert stretches across 100,000 km of arid terrain in northeast Ethiopia, southern Eritrea, and northwestern Djibouti. The area is known for its volcanoes and extreme heat, with daily temperatures over 45 °C and often surpassing 50 °C. It has a number of lakes formed by lava flows that dammed up several valleys. Among are Lake Asale (116 m below sea level) and Lake Giuletti/Afrera (80 m below sea level), both of which possess cryptodepressions in the Danakil Depression. The Afrera contains many active volcanoes, including the Maraho, Dabbahu, Afdera and Erta Ale.\n\nIn Somalia, there is not much seasonal variation in climate. Hot conditions prevail year-round along with periodic monsoon winds and irregular rainfall. Mean daily maximum temperatures range from , except at higher elevations along the eastern seaboard, where the effects of a cold offshore current can be felt. Somalia has only two permanent rivers, the Jubba and the Shabele, both of which begin in the Ethiopian Highlands.\n\nAbout 220 mammals are found in the Horn of Africa. Among threatened species of the region, there are several antelopes such as the beira, the dibatag, the silver dikdik and the Speke's gazelle. Other remarkable species include the Somali wild ass, the desert warthog, the hamadryas baboon, the Somali pygmy gerbil, the ammodile, and the Speke's pectinator. The Grevy's zebra is the unique wild equid of the region. There are predators such as spotted hyena, striped hyena and African leopard. The endangered painted hunting dog had populations in the Horn of Africa, but pressures from human exploitation of habitat along with warfare have reduced or extirpated this canid in this region.\n\nSome important bird species of the Horn are the black boubou, the golden-winged grosbeak, the Warsangli linnet, and the Djibouti francolin.\n\nThe Horn of Africa holds more endemic reptiles than any other region in Africa, with over 285 species total and about 90 species which are found exclusively in the region. Among endemic reptile genera, there are \"Haackgreerius\", \"Haemodracon\", \"Ditypophis\", \"Pachycalamus\" and \"Aeluroglena\". Half of these genera are uniquely found on Socotra. Unlike reptiles, amphibians are poorly represented in the region.\n\nThere are about 100 species of freshwater fish in the Horn of Africa, about 10 of which are endemic. Among the endemic, the cave-dwelling Somali blind barb and the Somali cavefish can be found.\n\nIt is estimated that about 5,000 species of vascular plants are found in the Horn, about half of which are endemic. Endemism is most developed in Socotra and northern Somalia. The region has two endemic plant families: the Barbeyaceae and the Dirachmaceae. Among the other remarkable species, there are the cucumber tree found only on Socotra (\"Dendrosicyos socotrana\"), the Bankoualé palm, the yeheb nut, and the Somali cyclamen.\n\nDue to the Horn of Africa's semi-arid and arid climate, droughts are not uncommon. They are complicated by climate change and changes in agricultural practices. For centuries, the region's pastoral groups have observed careful rangeland management practices to mitigate the effects of drought, such as avoiding overgrazing or setting aside land only for young or ill animals. However, population growth has put pressure on limited land and led to these practices no longer being maintained. Droughts in 1983–85, 1991–92, 1998–99 and 2011 have disrupted periods of gradual growth in herd numbers, leading to a decrease of between 37% and 62% of the cattle population. Initiatives by ECHO and USAID have succeeded in reclaiming hundreds of hectares of pastureland through rangeland management, leading to the establishment of the Dikale Rangeland in 2004.\n\nBesides sharing similar geographic endowments, the countries of the Horn of Africa are, for the most part, linguistically and ethnically linked together, evincing a complex pattern of interrelationships among the various groups.\nAccording to \"Ethnologue\", there are 10 individual languages spoken in Djibouti, 14 in Eritrea, 90 in Ethiopia, and 15 in Somalia. Most people in the Horn speak Afroasiatic languages of the Cushitic or Semitic branches. The former includes Oromo, spoken by the Oromo people in Ethiopia, and Somali, spoken by the Somali people in Somalia, Djibouti and Ethiopia; the latter includes Amharic, spoken by the Amhara people of Ethiopia, and Tigrinya spoken by the Tigrayan people of Eritrea and Ethiopia. Other Afroasiatic languages with a significant number of speakers include the Cushitic Afar, Saho, Hadiyya, Sidamo and Agaw languages, as well as the Semitic Tigre, Arabic, Gurage, Harari, Silt'e and Argobba tongues.\n\nAdditionally, Omotic languages are spoken by Omotic communities inhabiting Ethiopia's southern regions. Among these idioms are Aari, Dizi, Gamo, Kafa, Hamer and Wolaytta.\n\nLanguages belonging to the Nilo-Saharan and Niger-Congo families are also spoken in some areas by Nilotic and Bantu ethnic minorities, respectively. These tongues include the Nilo-Saharan Me'en and Mursi languages used in southwestern Ethiopia, and Kunama and Nara idioms spoken in parts of southern Eritrea. In the riverine and littoral areas of southern Somalia, Bajuni, Barawani, and Bantu groups also speak variants of the Niger-Congo Swahili and Mushunguli languages.\n\nThe countries of the Horn of Africa have been the birthplace of many ancient, as well as modern, cultural achievements in several fields including agriculture, architecture, art, cuisine, education, literature, music, technology and theology.\n\nEthiopian agriculture established the earliest known use of the seed grass teff (\"Poa abyssinica\") between 4000–1000 BCE. Teff is used to make the flatbread injera/taita. Coffee also originated in Ethiopia and has since spread to become a worldwide beverage. Ethiopian art is renowned for the ancient tradition of Ethiopian Orthodox Christian iconography stretching back to wall paintings of the 7th century CE. Somali architecture includes the Fakr ad-Din Mosque, which was built in 1269 by the Fakr ad-Din, the first Sultan of the Sultanate of Mogadishu. Ethiopia is renowned for its ancient churches, such as at the UNESCO World Heritage Site at Lalibela.\n\nThe Horn has produced numerous indigenous writing systems. Among these is Ge'ez script ( ') (also known as \"Ethiopic\"), which has been written in for at least 2000 years. It is an abugida script that was originally developed to write the Ge'ez language. In speech communities that use it, such as the Amharic and Tigrinya, the script is called ' (), which means \"script\" or \"alphabet\".\n\nIn the early 20th century, in response to a national campaign to settle on a writing script for the Somali language (which had long since lost its ancient script), Osman Yusuf Kenadid, a Somali poet and remote cousin of the Sultan Yusuf Ali Kenadid of the Sultanate of Hobyo, devised a phonetically sophisticated alphabet called Osmanya (also known as \"far soomaali\"; Osmanya: 𐒍𐒖𐒇 𐒈𐒝𐒑𐒛𐒐𐒘) for representing the sounds of Somali. Though no longer the official writing script in Somalia, the Osmanya script is available in the Unicode range 10480-104AF [from U+10480 – U+104AF (66688–66735)].\n\nThe Somali writer Nuruddin Farah has also garnered acclaim as perhaps the most celebrated writer ever to come out of the Horn of Africa. Having published many short stories, novels and essays, Farah's prose has earned him, among other accolades, the Premio Cavour in Italy, the Kurt Tucholsky Prize in Sweden, and in 1998, the prestigious Neustadt International Prize for Literature. In the same year, the French edition of his novel \"Gifts\" also won the St. Malo Literature Festival's prize.\n\nThe music of the Ethiopian highlands uses a unique modal system called \"qenet\", of which there are four main modes: \"tezeta\", \"bati\", \"ambassel\", and \"anchihoy\". Three additional modes are variations on the above: tezeta minor, bati major, and bati minor. Some songs take the name of their qenet, such as tezeta, a song of reminiscence.\n\nIn the field of technology, the Great Stele of Axum, at over long, was the largest single stone ever quarried in the ancient world.\n\nMost inhabitants in the Horn of Africa follow one of the three major Abrahamic faiths. These religions have had a longstanding adherence in the region.\n\nThe ancient Axumite Kingdom produced coins and stelae associated with the disc and crescent symbols of the deity Ashtar. The kingdom later became one of the earliest states to adopt Christianity, following the conversion of King Ezana II in the 4th century.\n\nIslam was introduced to the northern Somali coast early on from the Arabian peninsula, shortly after the hijra. Zeila's two-mihrab Masjid al-Qiblatayn dates to the 7th century, and is the oldest mosque in Africa. In the late 9th century, Al-Yaqubi wrote that Muslims were living along the northern Somali seaboard. He also mentioned that the Adal kingdom had its capital in the city, suggesting that the Adal Sultanate with Zeila as its headquarters dates back to at least the 9th or 10th century. According to I.M. Lewis, the polity was governed by local Somali dynasties, who also ruled over the similarly-established Sultanate of Mogadishu in the littoral Benadir region to the south. Adal's history from this founding period forth would be characterized by a succession of battles with neighbouring Abyssinia.\n\nIslam was introduced to the region early on from the Arabian peninsula, shortly after the hijra. At Muhammad's urging, a band of persecuted Muslims had fled across the Red Sea into the Horn. There, the Muslims were granted protection by the Aksumite King Aṣḥama ibn Abjar.\n\nAdditionally, Judaism has a long presence in the region. The \"Kebra Negast\" (\"Book of the Glory of Kings\") relates that Israelite tribes arrived in Ethiopia with Menelik I, purported to be the son of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba (Makeda). The legend relates that Menelik as an adult returned to his father in Jerusalem, and then resettled in Ethiopia, and that he took with him the Ark of the Covenant. The Beta Israel today primarily follow the Orit (from Aramaic \"Oraita\" – \"Torah\"), which consists of the Five Books of Moses and the books Joshua, Judges and Ruth.\n\nA number of ethnic minority groups in southern Ethiopia also adhere to various traditional faiths. Among these belief systems are the Nilo-Saharan Surma people's acknowledgment of the sky god \"Tumu\".\n\nIn the modern era, the Horn of Africa has produced several world-famous sports personalities, including long distance runners such as the world-record holder Kenenisa Bekele and Derartu Tulu, the first Ethiopian woman to win an Olympic gold medal and the only woman to have twice won the 10,000 meter Olympic gold in the short history of the event.\nOne of the most successful runners from the region has been Haile Gebrselassie who was acclaimed as \"Athlete of the Year 1998\" by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF). As well as numerous gold medals in various events, Gebrselassie achieved 15 world records and world bests in long and middle distance running, including world record marathon times in 2007 and 2008. Somali athlete Abdi Bile became a world champion when he won the 1500m for men at the 1987 World Championships in Athletics, running the final 800m of the race in 1:46.0, the fastest final 800m of any 1,500 meter track race in history.\n\nEritrea has established the cycling event the Tour of Eritrea.\n\nIn recent years, the Somali diaspora produced a football star in Ayub Daud, a midfielder who plays for Juventus in Italy's Serie A. Zahra Bani, a Somali-Italian javelin thrower, has garnered attention with her performances that so far have earned her adopted Italy a silver medal at the 2005 Mediterranean Games, as has Mo Farah, a Somali-British athlete that took gold for his adopted Great Britain in the 3000m at the 2009 European Indoor Championships in Turin and later golds in both the 10,000m and 5,000m at the 2012 London Olympics.\n\nAccording to the IMF, in 2010 the Horn of Africa region had a total GDP (PPP) of $106.224 billion and nominal of $35.819 billion. Per capita, the GDP in 2010 was $1061 (PPP) and $358 (nominal).\n\nStates of the region depend largely on a few key exports:\nOver 95% of cross-border trade within the region is unofficial and undocumented, carried out by pastoralists trading livestock. The unofficial trade of live cattle, camels, sheep and goats from Ethiopia sold to other countries in the Horn and the wider Eastern Africa region, including Somalia and Djibouti, generates an estimated total value of between US$250 and US$300 million annually (100 times more than the official figure). This trade helps lower food prices, increase food security, relieve border tensions and promote regional integration. However, there are also risks as the unregulated and undocumented nature of this trade runs risks, such as allow disease to spread more easily across national borders. Furthermore, governments are unhappy with lost tax revenue and foreign exchange revenues.\n\nMuch of the Horn nations' trade links are with Middle Eastern countries. In 2011, an event hosted by the Arab Center for Research and Policy Studies in Doha, Qatar devoted several days of discussion to ways in which countries in the Horn region and the adjacent Arabian peninsula could further strengthen these historically close economic, social, cultural and religious ties.\n\n\nNational history:\n\nSultanates and kingdoms:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401600", "title": "Index of Armenia-related articles", "text": "Index of Armenia-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Armenia include:\n\n1268 Cilicia earthquake ·\n1896 Ottoman Bank Takeover ·\n1965 Yerevan demonstrations ·\n1988 Armenian earthquake ·\n1992 in Armenian football ·\n1993 in Armenian football ·\n1993 Summer Offensives ·\n1994 in Armenian football ·\n1995 in Armenian football ·\n1995-96 in Armenian football ·\n1996-97 in Armenian football ·\n1997 in Armenian football ·\n1998 in Armenian football ·\n1999 Armenian parliament shooting ·\n1999 in Armenian football ·\n2000 in Armenian football ·\n32nd Chess Olympiad\n\n.am ·\nAaron the Illustrious ·\nAbas I of Armenia ·\nAbovyan ·\nAbraham of Armenia ·\nAcacius of Sebaste ·\nAchin Nor-Achin ·\nAchots ·\nAdana massacre ·\nAdjika ·\nAdministration for Western Armenia ·\nAdministrative divisions of Armenia ·\nAgdam (rayon) ·\nAghdznik ·\nAghstev ·\nAir Armenia ·\nAir-Van Airlines ·\nAkdamar Island ·\nAkhtala ·\nAkhtamar Sevan ·\nAkhurian River ·\nAlashkert Martuni ·\nAlaverdi ·\nAlik ·\nAliovit ·\nAll Armenian Labour Party ·\nAlma Johansson ·\nAlmaz Yerevan ·\nAmaras Monastery ·\nAmatuni ·\nAmberd ·\nAmerican Committee for Relief in the Near East ·\nAmerican University of Armenia ·\nAnahit ·\nAngl ·\nAni ·\nAnthem of the Armenian SSR ·\nAnti-Armenianism ·\nAntzevasiq ·\nAntzitene ·\nAparan ·\nThe Apex Theory ·\nApricot ·\nAra the Beautiful ·\nArab conquest of Armenia ·\nArabkir District ·\nArabkir Yerevan ·\nAragats Gyumri ·\nAragatsotn ·\nFC Armavir ·\nAramu ·\nAranean ·\nArarat (brandy) ·\nArarat (film) ·\nArarat (province) ·\nArarat plain ·\nAras River ·\nAravan ·\nAravelian ·\nArba Lijoch ·\nArcharuni ·\nArcharuniq ·\nArchitecture of Armenia ·\nArgishti II of Urartu ·\nArgishtis I of Urartu ·\nArkhalig ·\nArmavia ·\nArmavir (province) ·\nArmavir, Armenia ·\nArmed Forces of Armenia ·\nArmenia ·\nArmenia (name) ·\nArmenia and the European Union ·\nArmenia at the 1994 Winter Olympics ·\nArmenia at the 1996 Summer Olympics ·\nArmenia at the 1998 Winter Olympics ·\nArmenia at the 2000 Summer Olympics ·\nArmenia at the 2002 Winter Olympics ·\nArmenia at the 2004 Summer Olympics ·\nArmenia at the 2006 Winter Olympics ·\nArmenia at the 2006 Winter Paralympics ·\nArmenia Davis Cup team ·\nArmenia Fed Cup team ·\nArmenia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006 ·\nArmenia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2007 ·\nArmenia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2008 ·\nArmenia national football team ·\nArmenia national rugby union team ·\nArmenia Tree Project ·\nArmenia, Subartu And Sumer ·\nArmenia-Azerbaijan relations ·\nArmenian Academy of Sciences ·\nArmenian Air Defense ·\nArmenian Air Force ·\nArmenian alphabet ·\nArmenian American Political Action Committee ·\nArmenian American Wellness Center ·\nArmenian Apostolic Church ·\nArmenian Army ·\nArmenian Assembly of America ·\nArmenian battalions ·\nArmenian Border Guard ·\nArmenian Brotherhood Church ·\nArmenian calendar ·\nArmenian casualties during World War I ·\nArmenian casualties of deportations ·\nArmenian Catholic Church ·\nArmenian chant ·\nArmenian Chess Championship ·\nArmenian College (Kolkata) ·\nArmenian Communist Party ·\nArmenian community of Dhaka ·\nArmenian Congress of Eastern Armenians ·\nArmenian cucumber ·\nArmenian Cup ·\nArmenian dance ·\nArmenian Dances ·\nArmenian Democratic Liberal Party .\nArmenian diaspora ·\nArmenian diaspora in Europe ·\nArmenian diaspora in the Middle East ·\nArmenian diplomatic missions ·\nArmenian Distance Learning Network ·\nArmenian dram ·\nArmenian dress ·\nArmenian Evangelical Church ·\nArmenian First League ·\nArmenian First League 2006 ·\nArmenian First League 2007 ·\nArmenian General Benevolent Union ·\nArmenian Genocide ·\nThe Armenian Genocide (documentary) ·\nArmenian Genocide Remembrance Day ·\nArmenian gull ·\nArmenian Highland ·\nArmenian hypothesis ·\nArmenian illuminated manuscript ·\nArmenian irregular units ·\nArmenian Kingdom of Cilicia ·\nArmenian language ·\nArmenian Legion ·\nArmenian literature ·\nArmenian Mesopotamia ·\nArmenian mythology ·\nArmenian National Assembly (Ottoman Empire) ·\nArmenian national awakening in the Ottoman Empire ·\nArmenian National Committee of America ·\nArmenian National Constitution ·\nArmenian National Council of Karabagh ·\nArmenian national ice hockey team ·\nArmenian national movement ·\nArmenian needlelace ·\nArmenian nobility ·\nArmenian notables deported from the Ottoman capital in 1915 ·\nArmenian Numismatic Society ·\nArmenian oak ·\nArmenian Oblast ·\nArmenian parliamentary election, 2003 ·\nArmenian parliamentary election, 2007 ·\nArmenian presidential election, 2008 ·\nArmenian passport ·\nArmenian Patriotic Society of Europe ·\nArmenian Philharmonic Orchestra ·\nArmenian postal codes ·\nArmenian Premier League ·\nArmenian Premier League 2005 ·\nArmenian Premier League 2006 ·\nArmenian Premier League 2007 ·\nArmenian Professional Society ·\nArmenian Public Television ·\nArmenian Quarter ·\nArmenian Question ·\nArmenian quote ·\nArmenian Research Center ·\nArmenian resistance (1914-1918) ·\nArmenian Revolutionary Federation ·\nArmenian Revolutionary Songs ·\nArmenian rock ·\nArmenian rock lizard ·\nArmenian ruble ·\nArmenian School (Madras) ·\nArmenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia ·\nArmenian SSR ·\nArmenian State Institute of Physical Culture ·\nArmenian Stock Exchange ·\nArmenian Supercup ·\nArmenian surnames ·\nArmenian verbs ·\nArmenian volunteer units ·\nArmenian Workers Communist Party ·\nArmenian Workers Union ·\nArmenian-American ·\nArmenian-Assyrian relations ·\nArmenian-Azerbaijani War ·\nArmenian-Byzantine Battle ·\nArmenian-Greek relations ·\nArmenian-Parthian War ·\nArmenians ·\nArmenians in Australia .\nArmenians in Bulgaria ·\nArmenians in Burma ·\nArmenians in Cyprus ·\nArmenians in Egypt ·\nArmenians in Georgia ·\nArmenians in Germany ·\nArmenians in Greece ·\nArmenians in Hungary ·\nArmenians in India ·\nArmenians in Indonesia ·\nArmenians in Iraq ·\nArmenians in Kuwait ·\nArmenians in Lebanon ·\nArmenians in Poland ·\nArmenians in Romania ·\nArmenians in Russia ·\nArmenians in Singapore ·\nArmenians in Syria ·\nArmenians in the Czech Republic ·\nArmenians in the Netherlands ·\nArmenians in the Ottoman Empire ·\nArmenians in Turkey ·\nArmenians in Turkmenistan ·\nArmenians in Ukraine ·\nArmenian-Tatar massacres ·\nArmenian-Turkish relations ·\nArmeno-Kipchak ·\nArme-Shupria people ·\nArmrosgazprom ·\nArpa River ·\nArpa Yeghegnadzor ·\nArsacid Dynasty of Armenia ·\nArsames I ·\nArsames II ·\nArsamosata ·\nArtashat (ancient city) ·\nArtashat, Armenia ·\nArtavasdes I of Armenia ·\nArtavasdes II of Armenia ·\nArtavasdes III of Armenia ·\nArtaxiad Dynasty ·\nArtaxias I ·\nArtaxias II ·\nArtaxias III ·\nArtik ·\nArtinis ·\nArtokh ·\nArtsakh ·\nArtsakh State Museum ·\nArtsruni ·\nArtsvashen ·\nAruchavank church ·\nArzashkun ·\nAshot I ·\nAshot II ·\nAshot III ·\nAshtarak ·\nAskeran ·\nAskeran clash ·\nAssyrians in Armenia ·\nAtlantis European Airways ·\nAustrian Armenian Cultural Society ·\nAyas (city) ·\nAyran ·\nAyrarat ·\nAzat River ·\nAzgayin Zhoghov ·\nAznavour Noyemberyan\n\nBagaran ·\nBagmasti ·\nBagras ·\nBagratuni Dynasty ·\nBagrevand ·\nBagvarti ·\nBaklava ·\nBaluni ·\nBambir ·\nBanants Stadium ·\nBasean ·\nThe Battle of 40 ·\nBattle of Alexandropol ·\nBattle of Arara ·\nBattle of Artaxata ·\nBattle of Avarayr ·\nBattle of Bagrevand ·\nBattle of Bash Abaran ·\nBattle of Dilman ·\nBattle of Kara Killisse (1918) ·\nBattle of Kars (1920) ·\nBattle of Kelbajar ·\nBattle of Khasdour ·\nBattle of Nairi ·\nBattle of Oltu ·\nBattle of Rhandeia ·\nBattle of Sardarapat ·\nBattle of Sarıkamış (1920) ·\nBattle of Tigranocerta ·\nBattle of Varnakert ·\nBattle of Wadi al-Khazandar ·\nBelahuit ·\nBgheno-Noravank ·\nBjni ·\nBKMA Yerevan ·\nBlue Mosque, Yerevan ·\nBorscht ·\nBurek ·\nBuzlukh ·\nByurakan Observatory ·\nByureghavan ·\nByzantine Armenia ·\nByzantine-Sassanid Wars ·\nBznuni ·\nBznuniq\n\nCalendar of Saints (Armenian Apostolic Church) ·\nCanadians of Armenian descent ·\nCapture of Shusha ·\nCataphract ·\nCathedral of Ani ·\nArmenian Cathedral of the Holy Cross\nCaucasian Albania ·\nCaucasus Campaign ·\nCensuses of Armenia ·\nCentral Bank of Armenia ·\nChambarak ·\nChamchwilde ·\nCharentsavan ·\nCharlotte of Cyprus ·\nChazinzarians ·\nCheoreg ·\nChorpan Tarkhan ·\nChurch of St. John, Mastara ·\nChurch of St. Nerses the Great ·\nCilicia ·\nCinema of Armenia ·\nClassical Armenian ·\nCoat of arms of Armenia ·\nCoat of arms of Nagorno-Karabakh ·\nCoat of arms of the Armenian SSR ·\nCobra (cigarette) ·\nCommunications in Armenia ·\nConfederation of Trade Unions of Armenia ·\nConservative Party of Armenia ·\nConstantine I of Armenia ·\nConstantine II of Armenia ·\nConstantine III of Armenia ·\nConstantine IV of Armenia ·\nConstantine V of Armenia ·\nConstantine VI of Armenia ·\nConstitution of Armenia ·\nConstitutional Rights Union ·\nCorduene ·\nCSKA Yerevan ·\nCuisine of Armenia ·\nCulture of Armenia ·\nCyrion and Candidus\n\nDadi Vank ·\nDar-Alages ·\nDaranali ·\nDariunq ·\nDastakert ·\nDavid I Anhoghin ·\nDavid II of Lori ·\nDavid of Sasun ·\nDavid Bek ·\nDebed ·\nDebed Alaverdi ·\nDefence Minister of Armenia ·\nDefense of Van ·\nDegiq ·\nDemocratic Party of Armenia ·\nDemocratic Republic of Armenia ·\nDemographics of Armenia ·\nDenial of the Armenian Genocide ·\nDhol ·\nDignity, Democracy, Motherland ·\nDilijan ·\nDimaksean ·\nDjahan ·\nDjidjrakatsi ·\nDolma ·\nDoogh ·\nDuduk ·\nDvin ·\nDvin Artashat ·\nDzayrakuyn Vartabed ·\nDzophq ·\nDzoraget (river) ·\nDzorapor\n\nEastern Armenia ·\nEastern Armenian language ·\nEastern Armenian verb table ·\nEastern Christian Monasticism ·\nEchmiadzin ·\nEchmiadzin Gospels ·\nEconomy of Armenia ·\nEducation in Armenia ·\nEetch ·\nEkeleatzi ·\nElections in Armenia ·\nElisabethpol Governorate ·\nElishe ·\nEmbassy of Armenia in Ottawa ·\nEmbassy of Armenia in Washington ·\nEndzaiatsi ·\nErato of Armenia ·\nErebuni Airport ·\nErebuni Fortress ·\nErebuni Yerevan ·\nErivan Governorate ·\nErivan khanate ·\nEruandhuni ·\nErukhan ·\nExpeditus ·\nExtreme points of Armenia\n\nFauna of Armenia ·\nFC Araks Ararat ·\nFC Ararat Yerevan ·\nFC Artashat ·\nFC Banants ·\nFC Bentonit Ijevan ·\nFC Dinamo Yerevan ·\nFC Gandzasar Kapan ·\nFC Kilikia Yerevan ·\nFC Kotayk Abovian ·\nFC Masis ·\nFC MIKA ·\nFC Pyunik ·\nFC Shirak ·\nFC Vanadzor ·\nFC Yeghvard ·\nFC Yerevan ·\nFC Zvartnots ·\nFedayeen ·\nFereydan ·\nFirst Council of Constantinople ·\nFK Gyumri ·\nFK Karabakh ·\nFizuli ·\nFlag of Armenia ·\nFlag of Nagorno-Karabakh ·\nFlag of the Armenian SSR ·\nFondation Université Française en Arménie ·\nFootball Federation of Armenia ·\nForeign relations of Armenia ·\nForeign relations of Nagorno-Karabakh ·\nThe Forty Days of Musa Dagh ·\nForty Martyrs of Sebaste ·\nFranco-Armenian relations ·\nFrench Armenian Legion ·\nFund for Armenian Relief\n\nGabelian ·\nGagik I of Armenia ·\nGagik II ·\nGandzasar monastery ·\nGardman ·\nGaregin Khachatryan ·\nGarithaianik ·\nGarni ·\nGarni Gorge ·\nGata ·\nGavar ·\nGeghama mountains ·\nGeghard ·\nGegharkunik ·\nGentuni ·\nGeography of Armenia ·\nGeographical Issues in Armenia ·\nGeorgian-Armenian War 1918 ·\nGetashen ·\nGhapama ·\nGhazanchetsots Cathedral ·\nThe Golden-Headed Fish ·\nGoltn ·\nGoranboy ·\nGoris ·\nGoshavank ·\nGrand Lodge of Armenia ·\nGreater Armenia (political concept) ·\nGreeks in Armenia ·\nGregory of Narek ·\nGregory the Illuminator ·\nG'Tichavank ·\nGugark ·\nCalouste Gulbenkian ·\nGyumri ·\nGyumri City Stadium\n\nHachdeanq ·\nHadrut ·\nHaghartsin Monastery ·\nHaghpat ·\nHaghpat Monastery ·\nHaigazian Armenological Review ·\nHalay ·\nHalva ·\nHamazkayin ·\nHamidian massacres ·\nHamshenis ·\nHanrapetutyun Party ·\nHanrapetakan Stadium ·\nHanzith ·\nHarissa (dish) ·\nHaritchavank Monastery ·\nHayasa-Azzi ·\nHayastani Azgayin Scautakan Sharjum Kazmakerputiun ·\nHayk ·\nHeritage (political party) ·\nHethum I of Armenia ·\nHethum II of Armenia ·\nHethumids ·\nHistory of Armenia ·\nHistory of Armenia (Moses of Chorene) ·\nHistory of Nagorno-Karabakh ·\nHistory of Nagorno-Karabakh (1918-1923) ·\nHistory of the Jews in Armenia ·\nHittite-Hayasa War ·\nHoly See of Cilicia ·\nHomshetsi ·\nHonored Artist of Armenia ·\nHorizon Weekly ·\nHorom Citadel ·\nHouse of Hasan-Jalalyan ·\nHrazdan ·\nHrazdan River ·\nHrazdan Stadium ·\nHuman rights in Armenia ·\nHummus\n\nIce Hockey Federation of Armenia ·\nIjevan ·\nImpuls Dilijan ·\nIran–Armenia relations ·\nIsaac of Armenia ·\nIshpuinis of Urartu ·\nIslam in Armenia\n\nJabrayil ·\nJames I of Cyprus ·\nJanus of Cyprus ·\nJermuk ·\nJermuk (drink) ·\nJohn II of Cyprus ·\nJohn Mamikonean ·\nJustice (Armenia) ·\nJustice Commandos Against Armenian Genocide\n\nKajaran ·\nKalbajar ·\nKamancha ·\nKamsarakan ·\nKanach Zham ·\nKanaz Yerevan ·\nKanun (instrument) ·\nKapan ·\nKarabakh ·\nKarabakh carpet ·\nKarabakh horse ·\nKarabakh khanate ·\nKarbelian ·\nKarin ·\nKarin Yerevan ·\nKarqayin ·\nKars ·\nKars Oblast ·\nKasagh River ·\nKasakh Ashtarak ·\nKashkak ·\nKavare Mer ·\nKaymaklı Monastery ·\nKazak Stadium ·\nKebab ·\nKecharis Monastery ·\nKelashin ·\nKenuni ·\nKhachkar ·\nKhachkar destruction in Nakhchivan ·\nKhaz (notation) ·\nKhaldi (god) ·\nKhanates of the Caucasus ·\nKhanasor Expedition ·\nKhash (dish) ·\nKhojali ·\nKhojavend ·\nKhor Virap ·\nKhorenatsi medal ·\nKhorkhoruni ·\nKhosrov III the Small ·\nKibbeh ·\nKingdom of Armenia (antiquity) ·\nKingdom of Armenia (Middle Ages) ·\nKingdom of Lori ·\nKingdom of Vaspurakan ·\nKirovabad pogrom ·\nKiurike I ·\nKiurike II ·\nKofta ·\nKorduq ·\nKoryun ·\nKotayk ·\nKotayk Brewery ·\nKotayk Stadium ·\nKozan, Adana ·\nKumairi Gyumri ·\nKura-Araxes culture ·\nKurdish-Armenian relations ·\nKurdistan Uyezd\n\nLachin ·\nLachin (rayon) ·\nLachin corridor ·\nLahmacun ·\nLake Akna ·\nLake Arpi ·\nLake Kari ·\nLake Lessing ·\nLake Sevan ·\nLake Urmia ·\nLake Van ·\nLandmine situation in Nagorno Karabakh ·\nLanguages of Armenia ·\nLavash ·\nLaw and Unity ·\nLaw enforcement in Armenia ·\nLaw enforcement in Nagorno-Karabakh ·\nLazarus Saturday ·\nLeague for the Liberation of the Peoples of the USSR ·\nLeo I of Armenia ·\nLeo II of Armenia ·\nLeo III of Armenia ·\nLeo IV of Armenia ·\nLeo V of Armenia ·\nLeo VI of Armenia ·\nLeontine martyrs ·\nLernagorts Stadium ·\nLernamerdz ·\nLernayin Artsakh ·\nLesser Armenia ·\nLGBT rights in Armenia (Gay rights)·\nLiberal Democratic Union of Armenia ·\nLiberalism in Armenia ·\nList of airports in Armenia ·\nList of Armenian kings ·\nList of Armenian Patriarchs of Jerusalem ·\nList of castles in Armenia ·\nList of cities in Armenia ·\nList of diplomatic missions in Armenia ·\nList of football clubs in Armenia ·\nList of kings of Ani ·\nList of kings of Urartu ·\nList of monarchs of the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia ·\nList of newspapers in Armenia ·\nList of political parties in Armenia ·\nList of renamed cities in Armenia ·\nList of volcanoes in Armenia ·\nLittle Ararat ·\nLori Province ·\nLori Vanadzor ·\nLuis Ararat ·\nLutipri\n\nMadrid Principles ·\nMakaravank Monastery ·\nMalatia Yerevan ·\nMalkaz ·\nMamikonian ·\nManavazian ·\nMandakuni ·\nManic Depressive Psychosis (band) ·\nMantı ·\nMaraghar Massacre ·\nMaralik ·\nMardakert ·\nMardakert and Martuni Offensives ·\nMarie of Armenia ·\nMartuni, Armenia ·\nMarwanid ·\nMarxist Party of Armenia ·\nMarzpanate Period ·\nMarzpetuni ·\nMasis (city) ·\nMatagh ·\nMatenadaran ·\nMatnakash ·\nMedieval Armenia ·\nMeghri ·\nMeletius of Antioch ·\nMelik ·\nMenuas of Urartu ·\nMer Hayrenik ·\nMetsamor Nuclear Power Plant ·\nMetsamor site ·\nMeze ·\nMiddle Armenian ·\nMighty Fatherland ·\nMika Stadium ·\nMilitary history of Armenia ·\nMilitary history of Nagorno-Karabakh ·\nMitanni ·\nMithridates of Armenia ·\nMjej Gnuni ·\nMleh of Armenia ·\nMonastery of Yedi Kilisa ·\nMongol invasions of Georgia and Armenia ·\nMoses of Chorene ·\nMother Armenia ·\nMount Aragats ·\nMount Ararat ·\nMoxoene ·\nMugni Gospels ·\nMusa Dagh ·\nMusasir ·\nMusasir temple ·\nMush Charentsavan ·\nMushki ·\nMusic of Armenia ·\nMy Brother's Road\n\nNagorno-Karabakh ·\nNagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast ·\nNagorno-Karabakh constitutional referendum, 2006 ·\nNagorno-Karabakh Defense Army ·\nNagorno-Karabakh presidential election, 2007 ·\nNagorno-Karabakh War ·\nNairi (people) ·\nNairi Stadium ·\nNairit Yerevan ·\nNakharar ·\nNakhchivan Autonomous Republic ·\nNakhchivan khanate ·\nNamrun Kalesi ·\nNational Assembly of Nagorno Karabakh ·\nNational Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts of Armenia ·\nNational Democratic Union of Armenia ·\nNational Foundation of Science and Advanced Technologies ·\nNational Hero of Armenia ·\nNational Unity (Armenia) ·\nNerk'in Getashen ·\nNerses IV ·\nNew Country (Armenia) ·\nNew Times (political party) ·\nNight Ark ·\nNiphates ·\nNor Hachn ·\nNoravank ·\nNorshirakan ·\nNourie Hadig ·\nNoyemberyan ·\nNvarsak Treaty\n\nOaksenham ·\nOctoechos (liturgy) ·\nOdzun ·\nOld Armenian ·\nOlnut ·\nOodians ·\nOperation Nemesis ·\nOperation Ring ·\nOrduniq ·\nOrigin of the Armenians ·\nOrigin of the Bagratid dynasties ·\nOrontid Dynasty ·\nOshakan ·\nOshin of Armenia ·\nOshin of Korikos ·\nOttoman Armenian casualties ·\nOuti\n\nPahlavuni ·\nPan-Armenian Games ·\nPan-Armenian National Movement ·\nPap of Armenia ·\nPastırma ·\nPatriarch Photios I of Constantinople ·\nPaulicianism ·\nPavstos Buzand ·\nPaytakaran ·\nPeople's Party of Armenia ·\nPersarmenia ·\nPersian Armenia ·\nPeter of Sebaste ·\nPilaf ·\nPita ·\nPlov ·\nPolitics of Armenia ·\nPolitics of Nagorno-Karabakh ·\nPolyeuctus ·\nPorak ·\nPostal history of Armenia ·\nPost-Armenian Genocide timeline ·\nPresident of Armenia ·\nPresident of Nagorno-Karabakh ·\nPrime Minister of Armenia ·\nPrime Minister of Nagorno-Karabakh ·\nPrincess Isabella of Armenia ·\nPrincipality of Khachen ·\nProto-Armenian language ·\nPublic holidays in Armenia ·\nPyotr Kotlyarevsky\n\nQadchberuni ·\nQanaqer-Zeytun ·\nQolian ·\nQubadli ·\nQueen Isabella of Armenia ·\nQueen Keran of Armenia\n\nRamgavar Party ·\nRaphsonian ·\nRavished Armenia ·\nRecognition of the Armenian Genocide ·\nReligion in ancient Armenia ·\nReligion in Armenia ·\nRemposian ·\nRenewed Communist Party of Armenia ·\nRepublic of Mountainous Armenia ·\nRepublic Square (Armenia) ·\nRepublican Party of Armenia ·\nRhadamistus ·\nRise the Euphrates ·\nRivers and lakes in Armenia ·\nRoman Catholicism in Armenia ·\nRoman relations with the Armenians ·\nRomanization of Armenian ·\nRshtuni ·\nRshtuniq ·\nRuben I of Armenia ·\nRuben II of Armenia ·\nRuben III of Armenia ·\nRubenid dynasty ·\nRule of Law (Armenia) ·\nRUOR Yerevan ·\nRusas I of Urartu ·\nRusas II of Urartu ·\nRussian 102nd Military Base ·\nRussian Armenia ·\nRussian-Armenian State University ·\nRusso-Persian War (1804-1813) ·\nRusso-Persian War (1826-1828) ·\nRusso-Turkish War (1877–1878)\n\nSaghmosavank Monastery ·\nSahak Bagratuni ·\nSaharuni ·\nSahl ibn-Sunbat ·\nSt. Astvatzatzin ·\nSaint Blaise ·\nSaint Gayane Church ·\nSt. Gevork church ·\nSt. Gregory the Illuminator's Church, Baku ·\nSt. Hripsime Church, Echmiadzin ·\nSaint Mesrob ·\nSaint Narses ·\nSaint Nearchus ·\nSt. Stepanos Church, Smyrna ·\nSames of Sophene ·\nSamtskhe-Javakheti ·\nSan Lazzaro degli Armeni ·\nSanahin ·\nSanatruces I of Armenia ·\nSardarapat ·\nSardarapat Memorial ·\nSarduri I ·\nSarma (food) ·\nSarsang reservoir ·\nSason ·\nSasun Resistance (1894) ·\nSasun Uprising (1904) ·\nSassuntsi-Davit Tank Regiment ·\nSatala ·\nSaz ·\nScouting and Guiding in Armenia ·\nSelardi ·\nSelkuniq ·\nSempad of Armenia ·\nSerart ·\nSeruantztian ·\nSevan (city) ·\nSevan National Park ·\nSevanavank ·\nShabin-Karahisar uprising ·\nShaddadid ·\nShahumian ·\nShamlugh ·\nShikahogh State Preserve ·\nShirak ·\nShirak Airport ·\nShulaveri-Shomu culture ·\nShusha ·\nShusha (rayon) ·\nShushi (province) ·\nShvi ·\nSiege of Van ·\nSipan Vardenis ·\nSisian ·\nSiunia Dynasty ·\nSivas ·\nSiwini ·\nSKA Ijevan ·\nSKA-Arai Echmiadzin ·\nSKIF Yerevan ·\nSmbat I ·\nSmbat II ·\nSmbat III ·\nSocial Democrat Hunchakian Party ·\nSociety for Free Armenia ·\nSophene ·\nSoviet 76th \"K. Y. Voroshilov\" Division ·\nSoviet 89th \"Tamanyan\" Rifle Division ·\nSpanduni ·\nSpecial Organization (Ottoman Empire) ·\nSpelling reform of the Armenian language 1922-1924 ·\nSper (Armenia) ·\nSport in Armenia ·\nSring ·\nState Engineering University of Armenia ·\nStepanakert ·\nStepanavan ·\nThe Story of Zoulvisia ·\nSujuk ·\nSumgait pogrom ·\nSurp Hovhannes Mkrtich ·\nSystem of a Down ·\nSyunik Kapan\nSyunik Province ·\n\nTabbouleh ·\nTachir ·\nTalin, Armenia ·\nTao-Klarjeti ·\nTaron (historic Armenia) ·\nTartar (rayon) ·\nTashir ·\nTashir-Dzoraget ·\nTatev ·\nTavush ·\nTayk ·\nTehcir Law ·\nTeishebaini ·\nTerpatuni ·\nTeruni ·\nThaddeus Monastery ·\nTheispas ·\nTheodore Edward Dowling ·\nThird Mithridatic War ·\nThoros I of Armenia ·\nThoros II of Armenia ·\nThoros III of Armenia ·\nThree Pashas ·\nTigranakert ·\nTigranes ·\nTigranes I ·\nTigranes III ·\nTigranes IV ·\nTigranes the Great ·\nTigranes V of Armenia ·\nTigranes VI of Armenia ·\nTimeline of Armenian history ·\nTimeline of Armenian national movement ·\nTiridates I of Armenia ·\nTiridates III of Armenia ·\nTmoriq ·\nTogarmah ·\nTondrakians ·\nToprakkale ·\nTrade unions in Armenia ·\nTraditional Armenian orthography ·\nTranscaucasian Democratic Federative Republic ·\nTranscaucasian SFSR ·\nTransport in Armenia ·\nTreaty of Alexandropol ·\nTreaty of Batum ·\nTreaty of Gulistan ·\nTreaty of Kars ·\nTreaty of Moscow (1921) ·\nTreaty of San Stefano ·\nTreaty of Sèvres ·\nTreaty of Turkmenchay ·\nTrialeti culture ·\nTsakhkadzor ·\nTsakhkadzor ski resort ·\nTsitsernakaberd ·\nTskhouk-Karckar ·\nTufagorts Artik ·\nTumanyan ·\nTurkish coffee ·\nTurkish-Armenian War ·\nTuruberan ·\nTushpa\n\nUdi people ·\nUlisses ·\nUnion of Communists of Armenia ·\nUnion of Producers and Women ·\nUnited Communist Party of Armenia ·\nUnited Labour Party (Armenia) ·\nUpper Armenia ·\nUrartian language ·\nUrartu ·\nUrdz ·\nUrfa Resistance ·\nUtik\n\nVahanavank ·\nVahe ·\nVahevuni ·\nVahram Pahlavouni ·\nVahramashen Church ·\nVakıflı ·\nVan Yerevan ·\nVan, Turkey ·\nVanadzor ·\nVanand ·\nVannic Armenian Kingdom ·\nVarajnuni ·\nVarasdates (Varazdat) ·\nVardenis ·\nVartabed ·\nVartavar ·\nVayk ·\nVayots Dzor ·\nVedi ·\nViceroyalty of the Caucasus ·\nVisa policy of Argentina ·\nVoghdji River ·\nVoKee ·\nVorotan River\n\nWar between Armenia and Iberia ·\nWar between Armenia/Rome and Iberia/Parthia ·\nWater Day ·\nWe Are Our Mountains ·\nWestern Armenia ·\nWestern Armenian language ·\nWestern Armenian verb table ·\nWhite Genocide ·\nWildlife of Armenia ·\nWilsonian Armenia ·\nWriters Union of Armenia\n\nXerxes of Armenia\n\nYazidis in Armenia ·\nYeghegnadzor ·\nYeghish Arakyal Monastery ·\nYeghvard ·\nYerablur ·\nYerazank Yerevan ·\nYerazi ·\nYerevan ·\nYerevan Brandy Company ·\nYerevan Drive ·\nYerevan lake ·\nYerevan Metro ·\nYerevan State Linguistic University ·\nYerevan State Medical University ·\nYerevan State Musical Conservatory ·\nYerevan State Pedagogical University ·\nYerevan State University ·\nYerevan TV Tower ·\nYerevan United ·\nYerevan Zoo ·\nYerevan-Avia ·\nYeritsmankants Monastery ·\nYerkir ·\nYervandashat, Armenia ·\nYervandashat (ancient city) ·\nYervant I ·\nYıldız Attempt\n\nZa'atar ·\nZakarid Armenia ·\nZakarid-Mxargrzeli ·\nZangezur Mountains ·\nZangilan ·\nZankezour Goris ·\nZaravand ·\nZeitun Resistance (1915) ·\nZenob Glak ·\nZeytuntsyan ·\nZurna ·\nZvartnots ·\nZvartnots International Airport\n\n"}
{"id": "5100121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5100121", "title": "Index of Nigeria-related articles", "text": "Index of Nigeria-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Nigeria include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "71627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71627", "title": "Integrated geography", "text": "Integrated geography\n\nIntegrated geography (also referred to as integrative geography, environmental geography or human–environment geography) is the branch of geography that describes and explains the spatial aspects of interactions between human individuals or societies and their natural environment, these interactions being called coupled human–environment systems.\n\nIt requires an understanding of the dynamics of physical geography, as well as the ways in which human societies conceptualize the environment (human geography). Thus, to a certain degree, it may be seen as a successor of \"Physische Anthropogeographie\" (English: \"physical anthropogeography\")—a term coined by University of Vienna geographer Albrecht Penck in 1924—and geographical cultural or human ecology (Harlan H. Barrows 1923). Integrated geography in the United States is principally influenced by the schools of Carl O. Sauer (Berkeley), whose perspective was rather historical, and Gilbert F. White (Chicago), who developed a more applied view.\nIntegrated geography (also, integrative geography, environmental geography or human–environment geography) is the branch of geography that describes and explains the spatial aspects of interactions between human individuals or societies and their natural environment, called coupled human–environment systems.\n\nThe links between human and physical geography were once more apparent than they are today. As human experience of the world is increasingly mediated by technology, the relationships between humans and the environment have often become obscured. Thereby, integrated geography represents a critically important set of analytical tools for assessing the impact of human presence on the environment. This is done by measuring the result of human activity on natural landforms and cycles. Methods for which this information is gained include remote sensing, and geographic information systems. Integrated geography helps us to ponder the environment in terms of its relationship to people. With integrated geography we can analyze different social science and humanities perspectives and their use in understanding people environment processes. Hence, it is considered the third branch of geography, the other branches being physical and human geography. \n"}
{"id": "28158243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28158243", "title": "Jessamine Shumate", "text": "Jessamine Shumate\n\nAda Jessamine Shumate (born on March 31, 1902 as Ada Jessamine White in Horsepasture, Virginia – died on December 16, 1990 in Greenville, North Carolina) was an American artist, historian and cartographer, winner of the \"Award of Distinction\" in 1955 from the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.\n\nJessamine Shumate worked within a number of different styles and media during her career. \"Her work covers a broad range of media including silk screen-printing, pastel, transparent and opaque water color, oil, collage, batik and serigraph. Some of her techniques involve oil and the use of a blowtorch. She uses her serigraphs and silk screens as part of her collage work. Mrs. Shumate also makes photographic prints of her original work.\" She did traditional portraits; still life; traditional bucolic and rural scenes of Virginia and landscapes. She also completed a number of abstract art works, using cubism, orientalism and found object art. However, during her time, she lived in artistic isolation. In southwestern Virginia, there were few other professional artists, and fewer people to discuss and exchange artistic ideas with. Those artists in the southwestern Virginia area during the 1940s and 1950s, were frequently very conservative in their tastes. They often concentrated only on traditional southern art paintings, such as family portraits, landscapes, or simply decorating utensils. Few other people in the region had the scope and range of Jessamine Shumate's efforts, and she received much local criticism and disapproval for some of her modern art projects and accomplishments. She was also a founder of what is now called the Piedmont Arts Association in Martinsville, Virginia.\n\nA still controversial series of art works was done showing the Broad Street Christian Church in Martinsville, Virginia of which she was a member. Margaret Hadden said: \"Her church, Broad Street Christian Church, in Martinsville, was very important to her and she taught the kindergarten class in Sunday school for many years.\" In this series of experiments, she did one oil painting of the outside of the church in the cubist style (See: Cubism), showing an abstract view of the church from different sides simultaneously. In another two pastels, she shows the light of the stained glass windows filling the inside of the sanctuary and coming forth out from the church, and illuminating the area around the church, passing through the brick walls.\n\nAnother two works were done in watercolor painting of the Philpott Dam in Henry County. These were done during the construction phase of the dam, and both paintings show the temporary cement factory that was constructed to make the cement locally, and then taken down and removed after the dam was constructed. Her paintings are the only representations from this period, since most other photographic work concentrated on the construction of the dam itself, and not in the engineering aspects of the construction site. These paintings have recently been given to the Philpott Dam. \"Relatives of the late artist Ada Jessamine Shumate, who contributed two of her paintings of the construction of Philpott Dam to the dam's visitor's center. Shumate was a native of Henry County who painted the construction during the 1950s. Sharing the paintings with the public is a fitting tribute to her work and a good way for people to get a sense of what went into creating the dam.\" Another article commented: \"Relatives of the late artist Ada Jessamine Shumate, who contributed two of her paintings of the construction of Philpott Dam to the dam's visitor's center. Shumate was a native of Henry County who painted the construction during the 1950s. Sharing the paintings with the public is a fitting tribute to her work and a good way for people to get a sense of what went into creating the dam.\"\n\nAnother series of paintings were done when she was a student at the Woman's College in Greensboro, North Carolina, now the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. Some of these paintings show a cubist style of the gym and other buildings, showing images of the past and present brought together, so older buildings appear to overlap newer construction. Other paintings are pastels showing scenes of student housing and life in Greensboro, North Carolina from the late 1940s.\n\nJessamine Shumate was also famous for some of her unusual works. One of the most interesting was a burned cookie sheet. \"Mrs. Jessamine Shumate... is perhaps the only local artist to use a burned cookie sheet and a blow torch to do some of her painting.\" And another writer from Roanoke said: \"When it come to experimental material it is quite possible that Jessamine Shumate takes some kind of cake for painting on a cookie sheet. For me this is actually one of the most delightful items in the show. No one would guess that her bright, \"Pebbly Abstract No. 3\" is the result of a near kitchen disaster. Jim Yeatts, gallery owner, tells us that the artist left the cookie tin in the oven too long one day and tried desperately to get it clean. When it didn't begin to shine properly, she decided to paint it and frame it. \"Cookie Sheet\", done in \"mixed media\", is a delightful addition to the show. It may also be some sort of inspiration to other kitchen artists, who prefer paint brushes to scouring pads.\" The art piece is an example of \"found object art\", in that it is presented by the artist as a work of art, but the object was originally designed for a non-art function. Jessamine Shumate had taken something that was \"found\" and made it into another, more artistic, representation.\n\nJessamine Shumate has shown her works in the art museums of Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond, Virginia; the Taubman Museum of Art in Roanoke, Virginia; Bristol, Tennessee, the Greenville Museum of Art in Greenville, North Carolina, Tarboro, North Carolina, the art museum of Springfield, Massachusetts and others.\n\nJessamine Shumate was born to a tradesman and general store owner in Horsepasture, Virginia, Nathan Mortimer White and Ada Bassett White, who was an elementary school truant officer. Her father was quite the country scientist and shade tree inventor, and she said of him in her autobiography, \"Another memory is going with my father to the barn each night to feed the animals there. In 1910, when Halley's Comet was seen, we watched for it and he told me all about it as we walked to the barn. He was very interested in scientific happenings and nature, and I was fascinated by the sight! What a thrill to know I had lived long enough to see Halley's Comet again in 1986. This time, however, the sight was not as wonderful! Even the scientists were disappointed in the display of Halley's Comet's tail. The next time around, I suppose my great grandchildren will be here to see the comet.\"\n\nAs a younger woman, she had never painted seriously, but said she had always wanted to. She had taught art at of the higher grade classes in my school. While her youngest daughter was enrolled in Lynchburg College, she decided to drive to Lynchburg every week and take some art courses there. She enjoyed the classes, and later she went to Women's College in Greensboro, North Carolina, now known as the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, to take more advanced art classes. She also attended some courses at the Art Students League of New York. Every month during the school session, she would ride the train to New York City and stay for a week. She learned a great deal from these classes, and enjoyed her painting and experimenting with many different kinds of medium.\n\nShe married Whitney Shumate on December 13, 1922. She said in her autobiography, \"While I was going to school in Martinsville, I met a young man named Whitney Shumate. We started dating and went together for three years before we were married. The family teased me, because Whitney had a large car and when he came to Preston, Virginia to visit, always took me and a few members of my family for rides. When he bought a coupe, everyone said he was getting serious and wanted to leave my family at home when he took me for rides! It must have been true, because we were married on December 13, 1922.\"\n\nWhitney and Jessamine Shumate had two daughters, Ada Margaret S. Hadden (Mrs. William J. Hadden) and Jessamine \"Jeppy\" White S. Calhoun. Her grandson, Whit Haydn, is a noted magician and entertainer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5136272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5136272", "title": "Johannes Stabius", "text": "Johannes Stabius\n\nJohannes Stabius (Johann Stab) (1450–1522) was an Austrian cartographer of Vienna who developed, around 1500, the heart-shape (cordiform) projection map later developed further by Johannes Werner. It is called the \"Werner map projection\", but also the Stabius-Werner or the Stab-Werner projection. \n\nAfter its introduction by Werner in his 1514 book, \"Nova translatio primi libri geographiaae C. Ptolemaei\", the \"Werner projection\" was commonly used for world maps and some continental maps through the 16th century and into the 17th century. It was used by Mercator, Oronce Fine, and Ortelius in the late 16th century for maps of Asia and Africa. By the 18th century, it was replaced by the \"Bonne projection\" for continental maps. The \"Werner projection\" is only used today for instructional purposes and as a novelty.\n\nIn 1512, Stabius published a work called the \"Horoscopion\". He also devised a card dial. \n\nStabius was a member of a circle of humanists based in Vienna. This circle included the scholars Georg Tannstetter, Stiborius, Thomas Resch, Stefan Rosinus, Johannes Cuspinianus, and the reformer Joachim Vadianus. These humanists were associated with the court of Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor.\n\n"}
{"id": "43786042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43786042", "title": "Julius Büdel", "text": "Julius Büdel\n\nJulius Büdel (8 August 1903 – 28 August 1983) was a German geomorphologist noted for his work on the influence of climate in shaping landscapes and landforms. In his work Büdel stressed the importance of inherited landforms in present-day landscapes and argued that many landforms are the result of a combination of processes, and not of a single process. Büdel estimated that 95% of mid-latitude landforms are relict. Büdel studied both cold-climate processes in Svalbard and \"tropical\" weathering processes in India to understand the origin of the relief of Central Europe, which he argued was a palimpsest of landforms formed at different times and under different climates. For Central Europe Büdel concluded that in Late Cretaceous to Early Pliocene times etchplains formed. Then in Late Pliocene to Early Pleistocene times a transition period occurred in landscape forming processes. Finally in the Late Pleistocene periglaciation and deep permafrost made Central Europe a place of \"excessive valley cutting\". Holocene developments would not have affected much of the landscape other than adding a deep soil cover.\n\nThrough his life Büdel published three influential morphoclimatic zoning schemes. The first, in 1948, was followed by another in 1963, and a final version in 1977. Büdel's schemes emphasise planation and valley-cutting in relation to climate, arguing that valley-cutting is dominant in subpolar regions while planation is so in the tropics.\n\nMuch of Büdel's 1977 book \"Klima-geomorphologie\" was considered outdated as of 2006. However its pioneering approaches make it a classic in geomorphological literature. \n\nThe Büdel Islands in Antarctica were named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "23128091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23128091", "title": "Kalocsai", "text": "Kalocsai\n\nKalocsai or Kalocsay (meaning \"from Kalocsa\") could refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "4812747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4812747", "title": "Liesbeek River", "text": "Liesbeek River\n\nThe Liesbeek River (also spelt Liesbeeck) is a river in Cape Town in South Africa. It is named after a small river in the Netherlands. The first \"free burghers\" of the Dutch East India Company were granted land to farm along the river in 1657, shortly after the first Dutch settlers arrived in the Cape. The river was originally called the Amstel or Versse Rivier. It is the first river that Jan van Riebeeck named.\n\nThe Liesbeek, which is less than long, is situated in the oldest urbanised river valley in South Africa. The headwaters flow from the eastern slopes of Table Mountain above Kirstenbosch Botanical Gardens where the vegetation is largely indigenous. The slopes of Bishopscourt have large properties, including Jan van Riebeeck's farm. Water abstraction occurs here, often to water residential gardens, causing the flow to reduce during the summer months.\n\nIn Newlands, there are smaller residential plots. South African Breweries and the Josephine Mill are located here. From Rondebosch, large sections of the river are canalised, and the short sections of the river that are not canalised are degraded by erosion as a consequence of the increased flow from the canalised sections.\n\nBelow Rosebank and Mowbray, at Observatory, is the confluence of the Liesbeek and Black Rivers. The Two Rivers Urban Park is located on land between the Liesbeek and the Black with heritage sites and designated public open spaces. The Liesbeek empties into Table Bay at Paarden Eiland.\n\nThe Liesbeeck is home to the Platanna, or African clawed frog, an amphibian that has been important in certain areas of medical research.\n"}
{"id": "4241679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4241679", "title": "Lilla Värtan", "text": "Lilla Värtan\n\nLilla Värtan () or simply Värtan is a strait in Stockholm, Sweden. Separating mainland Stockholm from the island and municipality Lidingö, it stretches from Blockhusudden in the south to Stora Värtan in the north, and is joined by the Stocksundet mid-way. Two bridges, collectively called Lidingöbron (\"Lidingö Bridge\") stretch over the strait.\n\nWhile most of the coasts surrounding the strait are occupied by industries and the ferry terminals and oil tanks in the harbour area of Värtahamnen, natural beaches are found in both the southern and the northern end of the strait and the strait forms part of the Royal National City Park.\n\nMost common fish species are Baltic herring, sea trout, and salmon. Stationary predator fishes, e.g. northern pike and perch, are exposed to raised levels of mercury.\n\nThe area is considered an important wintering location for several birds species, including swans, Eurasian coot, common pochard, tufted duck, black-headed gull, lesser black-backed gull, gadwall, and common tern. The strait constitutes an important locale, especially ice-free winters, besides the lake Isbladskärret on Djurgården.\n\nVegetation on the shore lines of Lilla Värtan includes alder, purple loosestrife, common valerian, yellow loosestrife, reed canary-grass, tall fescue, lesser periwinkle, and giant knotweed.\n\nLevels of heavy metals and organic waste are high in the bottom silt and nutrient levels high in the water. The level of phosphorus was 29 µg/l in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "50102190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50102190", "title": "List of Estonian gliders", "text": "List of Estonian gliders\n\nThis is a list of gliders/sailplanes of the world, (this reference lists all gliders with references, where available) \nNote: Any aircraft can glide for a short time, but gliders are designed to glide for longer.\n\n"}
{"id": "8509255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8509255", "title": "List of ambassadors of the United States to Benin", "text": "List of ambassadors of the United States to Benin\n\nThe Kingdom of Dahomey was an overseas possession of France—part of French West Africa—until 1958. In that year Dahomey became an autonomous republic, and gained full independence in 1960. The United States immediately recognized Dahomey and began the process of initiating diplomatic relations. A U.S. Embassy at Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire (then named Ivory Coast) was established with Donald L. Norland as Chargé d'Affaires \"ad interim\". The embassy was also accredited also to Dahomey, Niger, and Upper Volta (now named Burkina Faso) while resident at Abidjan. On July 31, 1960, Chargé Norland presented his credentials to the government of Dahomey, to take effect on August 1, 1960. On October 14, 1960, R. Borden Reams was appointed as the ambassador and presented his credentials on November 26, 1960.\n\nOn February 15, 1961, the Embassy in Cotonou, Dahomey, was established with Converse Hettinger as Chargé d'Affaires \"ad interim\". Ambassador Reams remained resident in Abidjan.\n\nIn 1961 Robinson McIlvaine was appointed as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary with a separate commission solely to Dahomey. He presented his credentials to the government of Dahomey on June 22, 1961.\n\nThe Republic of Dahomey changed its name to Republic of Benin in 1975.\n\nIn June 2009, President Barack Obama nominated James Knight to succeed Brown as U.S. Ambassador to Benin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28177856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28177856", "title": "List of naval guns by country", "text": "List of naval guns by country\n\nList of Naval Guns, listed below by country of origin in decreasing caliber size:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46911959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46911959", "title": "List of neighborhoods of Kathmandu", "text": "List of neighborhoods of Kathmandu\n\nThis is a list of neighborhoods in the metropolitan city of Kathmandu, the capital and the largest municipality of Nepal. The 2011 census placed its population at about 975,000.\nKathmandu is composed of neighbourhoods, which are utilised quite extensively and more familiar among locals. However, administratively the city is divided into 35 wards, numbered from 1 to 35.\n\nList of neighborhoods of Kathmandu:\n\n"}
{"id": "34198956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34198956", "title": "List of post-nominal letters (Antigua and Barbuda)", "text": "List of post-nominal letters (Antigua and Barbuda)\n"}
{"id": "57119173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57119173", "title": "List of renamed places in Bangladesh", "text": "List of renamed places in Bangladesh\n\nThe following is the list of places in Bangladesh that underwent a name change in the past. The most Common names are in bold letters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37735503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37735503", "title": "Lugar (country subdivision)", "text": "Lugar (country subdivision)\n\nLugar is a name for a type of country subdivision in Portugal.\n"}
{"id": "12400111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12400111", "title": "Misraħ Kola", "text": "Misraħ Kola\n\nMisraħ Kola, (\"the Square of Nicholas\") is an Estate in the locality of Attard, Malta and is considered a part of Attard while not strictly belonging to the three villages made up of (central) Attard, Balzan and Lija.\n\nUp until the late 1900s, the Maltese railway passed by this estate and one can still see the old railway track at Triq il-Linja (Railway Street).\n\nHere one finds the Attard Industrial Estate, the Misraħ Kola Garden, Pierre Muscat Garden and G.Zammit Garden.\n\n"}
{"id": "2657965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2657965", "title": "Molyneux", "text": "Molyneux\n\nMolyneux (; Old Norman: \"De Molines\" or \"De Moulins\") is a French surname. The surname has been linked primarily to a large Norman family that settled in Lancashire, United Kingdom from Normandy following the Norman Conquest. By the 14th century the Molyneux family had become so large that it split into three main branches; the Lancashire line, who became the Earls of Sefton, the Nottingham line, and the Calais line, from family still left over in Normandy. There was also a branch of the family who were Irish baronets.\n\nThe ancestors of the Molyneaux family who arrived in England with the Normans bore the name \"de Molines\" or \"de Moulins\", Old Norman in origin, meaning \"Mill\", and eventually changed into \"Molyneux\". The early historical background of the family is sparse, coming from scattered genealogical, historical, and archaeological sources, composed of a mixture of legend, romanticized literary invention, and fact. Some historians derive the \"de Moulins\" came from Molineaux-sur-Seine, near Rouen, in Normandy where they were guardians of Château de Robert-le-Diable. The earliest claimed common ancestor of the family is said to be Robert de Moulins of Château de Moulineaux in Molineaux-Sur-Seine, called a follower of William of Normandy, though no surviving source attests to his existence. \n\nThey also held the Manor of Little Crosby, later Ince Blundell Hall, which had been held by one Uctred until 1066. By 1212 it was owned by Richard de Molyneux of Sefton before being turned over to the Blundell family. The Molyneuxs later owned most of the districts of Speke and Rainhill. The Royalist gentry family held a large moated manor, a corn mill on the River Alt, and the advowson of St. Helen's Church at Sefton without interruption from about 1100 to 1700. Their successors, by then Earls, moved to Croxteth Hall. Of the Sefton Molyneux family, crusaders Richard (d. 1290) and William Molyneux (d. 1320) are entombed within the church, and are the its oldest inhabitants. Their effigies now lie beneath an arch moulding set into the wall in the Molyneux chapel, which is outside of the 14th-century church walls. The Lancashire line of the family became Earls of Sefton, while there were also a branches seated at Nottingham and Calais.\n\nThe senior branch of the Sefton family had been staunch Catholics and Royalists (notably in the 17th and 18th centuries) through the worst times until Charles Molyneux, 8th Viscount Molyneux, was rewarded for converting to the Protestant faith. The relatively youthful second and third Viscounts fought on the Royalist side both politically and militarily. Although Liverpool Castle had been partly dismantled in 1660–1678, Caryll Molyneux, the 3rd Viscount, had used it for storing arms. During the reign of King James II, he was outlawed by Parliament for supporting the deposed king in 1688 to 1689. Control of the Castle finally passed out of Molyneux hands after Caryll had again been suspected of participation in a Jacobite plot. William, the 7th Viscount, was a Jesuit, and there were in his time not less than seven Molyneux in the Society of Jesus alone.\n\nVariations of the surname include \"Mullinax\", \"Mullenax\", \"Molinex\", \"Mullinix\", \"Mullenneix\", \"Mullennix\", \"Mullineaux\", \"Molinieux\", \"Molinaux\", \"Molineaux\", \"Mollineaux\", \"Molineux\", and several others.\n\nNotable persons with the surname \"Molyneux\", include:\n\nFor \"Viscount Molyneux\" see Earl of Sefton, and in particular\n\n\"Molyneaux\" is a rare Irish spelling variant. People with this spelling variant include:\n\n\n\n\n\"American spelling variation descended from Jonathan Molyneux\"\n\n\"American spelling variation descended from Richard Mullinix\"\nOther persons bearing the name Molyneux :\n\n"}
{"id": "56683414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56683414", "title": "Mottainai Grandma", "text": "Mottainai Grandma\n\nMottainai Grandma is the first book from the \"Mottainai Grandma\" series written by Japanese author Mariko Shinju. The book was published in 2004 The Japanese word \"mottainai\" means \"wasteful\".\n\nOn January 13, 2018, it was released in Hindi and English translation in New Delhi, India, by the Japan International Cooperation Agency. An earlier Japanese-English bilingual edition (pictured) was published by Kodansha in November 2005.\n\nShinju started having ideas about writing the book while trying to explain wastefulness to her child.\n\n"}
{"id": "24457883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24457883", "title": "NUTS statistical regions of Slovakia", "text": "NUTS statistical regions of Slovakia\n\nIn the NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics) codes of Slovakia (SK), the three levels are:\n\nBelow the NUTS levels, the two LAU (Local Administrative Units) levels are:\n\n\"The LAU codes of Slovakia can be downloaded here:\" \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3627783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3627783", "title": "Natural monument", "text": "Natural monument\n\nA natural monument is a natural or natural/cultural feature of outstanding or unique value because of its inherent rarity, representative of aesthetic qualities or cultural significance. \n\nUnder World Commission on Protected Areas guidelines, natural monuments are level III, described as:\nThis is a lower level of protection than level II (national parks) and level I (wilderness areas).\n\nThe European Environment Agency's guidelines for selection of a natural monument are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5139874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5139874", "title": "Old European hydronymy", "text": "Old European hydronymy\n\nOld European () is the term used by Hans Krahe (1964) for the language of the oldest reconstructed stratum of European hydronymy (river names) in Central and Western Europe.\n\nKrahe writes in A1, chapter III, \"Introducing preface\" Number 2 that the old European hydronomy extended from Scandinavia to South Italy, from Western Europe including the British Isles to the Baltic countries. Of the three Mediterranean peninsulas, Italy was most completely included, whilst the Balkan Peninsula was only scarcely covered. He writes that what he presents for hydronomy also applies to mountains and ranges of mountains, and continues with \"Karpaten\" and \"Karawanken\", certainly within the Slavic settlement area, omitting the Bavarian/Austrian \"Karwendel\" though. This area is associated with the spread of the later \"Western\" Indo-European dialects, the Celtic, Italic, Germanic, Baltic, and Illyrian branches. Notably exempt is Greece.\n\nKrahe located the geographical nucleus of this area as stretching from the Baltic across Western Poland and Germany to the Swiss plateau and the upper Danube north of the Alps, while he considered the Old European river names of southern France, Italy and Spain to be later imports, replacing \"Aegean-Pelasgian\" and Iberian substrates, corresponding to Italic, Celtic and Illyrian \"invasions\" from about 1300 BC.\n\nKrahe continues in III A 5, \"Geographic Area and age of the paleoeuropean hydronomy\" that the overwhelming majority of river and stream names originate from words which in the historical single languages cannot be found or cannot be found any more. He uses mainly Indo-European roots to allow the river names in question to speak (rule 1) of which more than 10,000 are listed.\n\nIn III A 2, \"Etymology and Semasiology of the paleoeuropean river names\" Krahe states that the oldest strata are composed by prerequisites of nature and that the river names especially refer to the water itself (rule 2), and that words referring to humans and culture are newer. Both rules are important arguments for considering the old European hydronomy of southern France and the north of the Iberian Peninsula as a result of secondary implementation (A.1. number 3) due to a postulated immigration around 1300 BC.\n\nIn \"Morphology of Paleoeuropean river names\" III A1 number 3, Krahe concentrates on suffixes (simples and multiples) and distinguishes eleven different ones in a table. He attributes geographical (Central European vs. South European or Eastern), functional (for example affluent) or temporal (before or after a change of consonants or vowels) functions to the suffixes of the river names (Rule 3). For the temporal function he claims the existence of a system of phonetic changes (\"Lautverschiebung\"), however he does not include prefixes in his considerations.\n\nKrahe's concentration on Indo-European roots and the omission of prefixes had serious negative consequences, because ever later focus was placed on those more than 10,000 roots, perhaps on old Irish, but scarcely on Gaulish and actual Celtic languages or Baltic languages and completely leaving out Basque. Delamarre later included for example under Gaulish \"dubron\" only rivers with \"B\" (or similar) leaving out other names, which Krahe would have called \"Schwundstufe\" = loss of a letter or with inversion of letters or both.\n\nKrahe ignored the impact of Moorish occupation in Spain, which led to frequent combinations of Arab \"prefixes\" (always at the beginning) on Celtic \"suffixes\" as seen in Guadiana (Guadi = river and Anas = bayous, muddy, as it appears in Ptolemy). The tables <comparison old European hydronyms> show that, in contradiction to Krahe's opinion, hydronyms (and toponyms) can in some cases very well be explained even by modern Irish, Welsh, or French and certainly by Gaulish.\n\nKrahe has influenced archaeologists, linguists and particularly experts in Celtic languages:\n\nMarija Gimbutas (Lithuanian: Marija Gimbutiene) studied in Tübingen, and received her doctorate of archeology in 1946 in the same department where Krahe lectured. Gimbutas developed the Kurgan theory.\n\nJürgen Untermann, a disciple of Krahe with dissertation 1954 in Tübingen was professor for Comparative Linguistics at the University of Cologne. He was an epigraphist and Indoeuropeanist.\n\nAntonio Tovar, with preliminary studies in Berlin, later professor of the University of Salamanca, was professor for Comparative Linguistics in Tübingen from 1967 to 1979. Together with Manuel Agud and Koldo Mitxelena he prepared an unedited etymological dictionary of the Basque language. Mitxelena (in English editions he appears as Luis Michelena) was only the creator of the modern Basque language.\n\nOther authors with a focus on or touching on the topic old European hydronomy are:\n\nXavier Delamarre is a French linguist whose standard work is \"Dictionnaire de la langue gauloise\" (2nd revised and augmented edition Paris, 2003), with the subtitle \"Une approche linguistique du vieux-celtique continental\". This is in fact the most comprehensive publication on Gaulish words. Slightly more than 800 terms appear in alphabetical order derived from Gaulish-Greek, Gaulish-Etruscan and Gaulish-Latin or solely Gaulish inscriptions, printed classical languages, coins and some terms of Celtic substrate in Occitan. He presents all cases of appearance of toponyms and hydronyms in question, cites authors and roots, showing alternatives, and classifies, if necessary, as uncertain or questionable. He shows all river name examples with prefixes. For example, see \"comparison of old hydronyms\" adding \"water\", \"clear\", \"hard stone\", etc.\n\nThe German linguist Theo Vennemann suggested in 2003 that the language of the old European hydronyms was agglutinative and Pre-Indo-European. This theory has been criticised as being seriously flawed, and the more generally accepted view is that hydronyms are of Indo-European origin.\n\nThe Spanish philologist Francisco Villar Liébana argued in 1990 for the Old European preserved in river names and confined to the hydronymic substratum in the Iberian Peninsula as yet another Indo-European layer with no immediate relationship to the Lusitanian language. However, the idea of \"Old European\" was criticized by Untermann in 1999 and De Hoz in 2001. \nVillar Liébana is a supporter of Gimbutas against the theories of Colin Renfrew. In his work, \"Indoeuropeos y No Indoeuropeos en la Hispania Prerromana\" (\"Indo-Europeans and Non-Indo-Europeans in Pre-Roman Hispania\") he presents a nine root \"series\" and a few more collective \"series\", mainly of toponyms (Hispanic and non-Hispanic) but also including hydronyms.\nFor example, in chapter IV B VII Liebana discusses hydronyms of the series \"uba\" starting with Maenuba (Pliny 3.8) = modern Veléz and with the same name affluent of the Baetis (Pliny 3.11) = Guadiamar, Salduba (close to Málaga). He compares modern rivers like Ubia, Ove, Fonte dos Ovos with, amongst others, the Danube, and with historical Corduba (actual Córdoba, Andalusia). Wherever \"uba\" appears, like in the rivers Saruba = actual Saar (river), an affluent of Mosel, Spanish fuente Sarobals (Huesca), Sarrubian (Huesca), he acknowledges only \"uba\" and not the root \"Dan\" in Danubius (corresponding to Dnieper and Dniester) or the root \"Sar\" in others, which all are Indo-European roots.\n\nThe map on the right shows Old European hydronymic maps for the root *var-, *ver- (figure 3, entitled Karte 5). (maps for *al-, *alm-(figure 1, entitled Karte 2) and *Sal-, *Salm- (figure 2, entitled Karte 4) are not shown)\n\nAnother example is the old river name \"Isar\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42152647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42152647", "title": "Orekhovsky", "text": "Orekhovsky\n\nThe Orekhovsky (Ореховский) is a waterfall in the Sochi National Park. It takes its name from Orekhovka, a settlement in the Khosta District of Sochi. It is located on the Bezumenka stream at its confluence with the Sochi River. Orekhovsky is the second highest waterfall in the city, with a height of 27.5 meters. In the early 20th century, it was known as \"Melnichny\" (\"the miller's fall\"). Nearby is a grove of walnuts and rhododendron.\n\n"}
{"id": "55530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55530", "title": "Personal protective equipment", "text": "Personal protective equipment\n\nPersonal protective equipment (PPE) refers to protective clothing, helmets, goggles, or other garments or equipment designed to protect the wearer's body from injury or infection. The hazards addressed by protective equipment include physical, electrical, heat, chemicals, biohazards, and airborne particulate matter. Protective equipment may be worn for job-related occupational safety and health purposes, as well as for sports and other recreational activities. \"Protective clothing\" is applied to traditional categories of clothing, and \"protective gear\" applies to items such as pads, guards, shields, or masks, and others.\n\nThe purpose of personal protective equipment is to reduce employee exposure to hazards when engineering controls and administrative controls are not feasible or effective to reduce these risks to acceptable levels. PPE is needed when there are hazards present. PPE has the serious limitation that it does not eliminate the hazard at the source and may result in employees being exposed to the hazard if the equipment fails.\n\nAny item of PPE imposes a barrier between the wearer/user and the working environment. This can create additional strains on the wearer;\nimpair their ability to carry out their work and create significant levels of discomfort. Any of these can discourage wearers from using PPE correctly, therefore placing them at risk of injury, ill-health or, under extreme circumstances, death. Good ergonomic design can help to minimise these barriers and can therefore help to ensure safe and healthy working conditions through the correct use of PPE.\n\nPractices of occupational safety and health can use hazard controls and interventions to mitigate workplace hazards, which pose a threat to the safety and quality of life of workers. The hierarchy of hazard controls provides a policy framework which ranks the types of hazard controls in terms of absolute risk reduction. At the top of the hierarchy are elimination and substitution, which remove the hazard entirely or replace the hazard with a safer alternative. If elimination or substitution measures cannot apply, engineering controls and administrative controls, which seek to design safer mechanisms and coach safer human behavior, are implemented. Personal protective equipment ranks last on the hierarchy of controls, as the workers are regularly exposed to the hazard, with a barrier of protection. The hierarchy of controls is important in acknowledging that, while personal protective equipment has tremendous utility, it is not the desired mechanism of control in terms of worker safety.\n\nPersonal protective equipment can be categorized by the area of the body protected, by the types of hazard, and by the type of garment or accessory. A single item, for example boots, may provide multiple forms of protection: a steel toe cap and steel insoles for protection of the feet from crushing or puncture injuries, impervious rubber and lining for protection from water and chemicals, high reflectivity and heat resistance for protection from radiant heat, and high electrical resistivity for protection from electric shock. The protective attributes of each piece of equipment must be compared with the hazards expected to be found in the workplace. More breathable types of personal protective equipment may not lead to more contamination but do result in greater user satisfaction.\n\nRespirators serve to protect the user from breathing in contaminants in the air, thus preserving the health of one's respiratory tract. There are two main types of respirators. One type of respirator functions by filtering out chemicals and gases, or airborne particles, from the air breathed by the user. The filtration may be either passive or active (powered). Gas masks and particulate respirators are examples of this type of respirator. A second type of respirator protects users by providing clean, respirable air from another source. This type includes airline respirators and self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA). In work environments, respirators are relied upon when adequate ventilation is not available or other engineering control systems are not feasible or inadequate.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, an organization that has extensive expertise in respiratory protective equipment is the Institute of Occupational Medicine. This expertise has been built on a long-standing and varied research programme that has included the setting of workplace protection factors to the assessment of efficacy of masks available through high street retail outlets.\n\nThe Health and Safety Executive (HSE), NHS Health Scotland and Healthy Working Lives (HWL) have jointly developed the RPE (Respiratory Protective Equipment) Selector Tool, which is web-based. This interactive tool provides descriptions of different types of respirators and breathing apparatuses, as well as \"dos and don'ts\" for each type.\n\nIn the United States, The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) provides recommendations on respirator use, in accordance to NIOSH federal respiratory regulations 42 CFR Part 84. The National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory (NPPTL) of NIOSH is tasked towards actively conducting studies on respirators and providing recommendations.\n\nOccupational skin diseases such as contact dermatitis, skin cancers, and other skin injuries and infections are the second-most common type of occupational disease and can be very costly. Skin hazards, which lead to occupational skin disease, can be classified into four groups. Chemical agents can come into contact with the skin through direct contact with contaminated surfaces, deposition of aerosols, immersion or splashes. Physical agents such as extreme temperatures and ultraviolet or solar radiation can be damaging to the skin over prolonged exposure. Mechanical trauma occurs in the form of friction, pressure, abrasions, lacerations and contusions. Biological agents such as parasites, microorganisms, plants and animals can have varied effects when exposed to the skin.\n\nAny form of PPE that acts as a barrier between the skin and the agent of exposure can be considered skin protection. Because much work is done with the hands, gloves are an essential item in providing skin protection. Some examples of gloves commonly used as PPE include rubber gloves, cut-resistant gloves, chainsaw gloves and heat-resistant gloves. For sports and other recreational activities, many different gloves are used for protection, generally against mechanical trauma.\n\nOther than gloves, any other article of clothing or protection worn for a purpose serve to protect the skin. Lab coats for example, are worn to protect against potential splashes of chemicals. Face shields serve to protect one's face from potential impact hazards, chemical splashes or possible infectious fluid.\n\nEach day, about 2000 US workers have a job-related eye injury that requires medical attention. Eye injuries can happen through a variety of means. Most eye injuries occur when solid particles such as metal slivers, wood chips, sand or cement chips get into the eye. Smaller particles in smokes and larger particles such as broken glass also account for particulate matter-causing eye injuries. Blunt force trauma can occur to the eye when excessive force comes into contact with the eye. Chemical burns, biological agents, and thermal agents, from sources such as welding torches and UV light, also contribute to occupational eye injury.\n\nWhile the required eye protection varies by occupation, the safety provided can be generalized. Safety glasses provide protection from external debris, and should provide side protection via a wrap-around design or side shields.\n\nIndustrial noise is often overlooked as an occupational hazard, as it is not visible to the eye. Overall, about 22 million workers in the United States are exposed to potentially damaging noise levels each year. Occupational hearing loss accounted for 14% of all occupational illnesses in 2007, with about 23,000 cases significant enough to cause permanent hearing impairment. About 82% of occupational hearing loss cases occurred to workers in the manufacturing sector. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration establishes occupational noise exposure standards. NIOSH recommends that worker exposures to noise be reduced to a level equivalent to 85 dBA for eight hours to reduce occupational noise-induced hearing loss.\n\nPPE for hearing protection consists of earplugs and earmuffs. Workers who are regularly exposed to noise levels above the NIOSH recommendation should be furnished hearing protection by the employers, as they are a low-cost intervention.\n\nThis form of PPE is all-encompassing and refers to the various suits and uniforms worn to protect the user from harm. Lab coats worn by scientists and ballistic vests worn by law enforcement officials, which are worn on a regular basis, would fall into this category. Entire sets of PPE, worn together in a combined suit, are also in this category.\n\nBelow are some examples of ensembles of personal protective equipment, worn together for a specific occupation or task, to provide maximum protection for the user.\n\nParticipants in sports often wear protective equipment. Studies performed on the injuries of professional athletes, such as that on NFL players, question the effectiveness of existing personal protective equipment.\n\nThe definition of what constitutes as personal protective equipment varies by country. In the United States, the laws regarding PPE also vary by state. In 2011, workplace safety complaints were brought against Hustler and other adult film production companies by the AIDS Healthcare Foundation, leading to several citations brought by Cal/OSHA. The failure to use condoms by adult film stars was a violation of Cal/OSHA's Blood borne Pathogens Program, Personal Protective Equipment. This example shows that personal protective equipment can cover a variety of occupations in the United States, and has a wide-ranging definition.\n\nAt the European Union level, personal protective equipment is governed by Directive 89/686/EEC on personal protective equipment (PPE). The Directive is designed to ensure that PPE meets common quality and safety standards by setting out basic safety requirements for personal protective equipment, as well as conditions for its placement on the market and free movement within the EU single market. It covers ‘any device or appliance designed to be worn or held by an individual for protection against one or more health and safety hazards’. The directive was adopted on 21 January 1989 and came into force on 1 July 1992. The European Commission additionally allowed for a transition period until 30 June 1995 to give companies sufficient time to adapt to the legislation. After this date, all PPE placed on the market in EU Member States was required to comply with the requirements of Directive 89/686/EEC and carry the CE Marking.\n\nArticle 1 of Directive 89/686/EEC defines personal protective equipment as any device or appliance designed to be worn or held by an individual for protection against one or more health and safety hazards. PPE which falls under the scope of the Directive is divided into three categories:\n\nDirective 89/686/EEC on personal protective equipment does not distinguish between PPE for professional use and PPE for leisure purposes.\n\nPersonal protective equipment falling within the scope of the Directive must comply with the basic health and safety requirements set out in Annex II of the Directive. To facilitate conformity with these requirements, harmonized standards are developed at the European or international level by the European Committee for Standardization (CEN, CENELEC) and the International Organization for Standardization in relation to the design and manufacture of the product. Usage of the harmonized standards is voluntary and provides presumption of conformity. However, manufacturers may choose an alternative method of complying with the requirements of the Directive.\n\nPersonal protective equipment excluded from the scope of the Directive includes:\n\nThe European Commission is currently working to revise Directive 89/686/EEC. The revision will look at the scope of the Directive, the conformity assessment procedures and technical requirements regarding market surveillance. It will also align the Directive with the New Legalislative Framework. The European Commission is likely to publish its proposal in 2013. It will then be discussed by the European Parliament and Council of the European Union under the ordinary legislative procedure before being published in the Official Journal of the European Union and becoming law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57471509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57471509", "title": "Rozeboom", "text": "Rozeboom\n\nRozeboom is a Dutch toponymic surname meaning \"rose tree\". The variant spellings \"Rooseboom\", \"Roosenboom\", \"Rosenboom\", \"Roozeboom\", \"Roseboom\", \"Rozeboom\", and \"Rozenboom\" are pronounced similarly in Dutch (). People with these surnames include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "615328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615328", "title": "Sag (geology)", "text": "Sag (geology)\n\nIn geology a sag, or trough, is a depressed, persistent, low area; the opposite of an arch, or ridge, a raised, persistent, high area. The terms sag and arch were used historically to describe very large features, for example, characterizing North America as two arches with a sag between them. \n\nAlso, a sag is a former river bed which has been partially filled with debris from glaciation or other natural processes but which is still visible in the surface terrain. Sags formed by the former river beds of large rivers often become the valleys of smaller streams after a change of course by the main river.\n\nExamples of sags include the former continuations of the Grand, Moreau and White rivers in South Dakota in the United States. Before the last ice age these rivers continued eastward past their current confluences with the present course of Missouri River. The sags are prominently visible on the plateau of the Coteau du Missouri, allowing small streams to drain into the Missouri from its eastern side.\n"}
{"id": "57894726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57894726", "title": "Sidhra", "text": "Sidhra\n\nSidhra is a town and municipality in the city of Jammu in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nAccording to local tradition, the name Sidhra is derived from two Urdu words; \"Seedhi\" means straight, and \"Raah\" means way. This is a reference to the main road and way in Sidhra being straight since its establishment.\n\nSidhra is located on the foothills of the Shivalik Hills and is situated on the banks of the Tawi River. Srinagar Jammu National Highway or NH-44 goes through this town. The Tawi Bridge connects it with Old City, while the highway from the opposite direction connects it with the new city.\n\nSidhra town is home to many Kashmiri and Pahari Muslim migrants mostly from Kashmir Valley, Chenab Valley and Poonch and Rajouri districts.Many Muslims from Kashmir Valley have settled here because of unrest in Valley.People from Chenab Valley and other hills of Jammu Division have settled here for better facilities and education.\nSome Kashmiri Muslims have made this area their second home or winter home.They settle here for six months during winters and go back during summers.\n\nSidhra is one of the few Muslim Majority Areas of Jammu City.\n\nSidhra comes under Ward No.71 of Jammu Municipal Corporation.Tawi Vihar is the most developed Colony of Sidhra and Asrarabad is the most populated colony of Sidhra..\nFollowing are some colonies of Sidhra.\n\n1.Asrarabad Colony\n\n2.Tawi Vihar Colony\n\n3.Umar Colony\n\n4.Eid Gah Colony (also known as Nikki Mohalla)\n\n5.Poshwan Colony\n\n6.Waliabad Colony\n\n7.Neher Colony\n\n8.Jalalabad Colony\n\n9.Chinar Enclave\n\n10.Iqbal Colony\n\n11.Rangoora\n\n12.Mahjeen\n\n13.Jama Masjid Colony\n"}
{"id": "30890699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30890699", "title": "Small power", "text": "Small power\n\nThe international system is for the most part made up by small powers or small states. While a small power in the international system may never equal or surpass the effect of larger powers, they can nevertheless influence the workings of the international system together with others. The formalization of the division between small and great powers came about with the signing of the Treaty of Chaumont in 1814. Before that the assumption had been that all independent states were in theory equal regardless of actual strength and responsibilities. From the second half of the twentieth century, the bipolar power blocs decreased the strategic room for manoeuvre for smaller actors.\n\nAccording to a 2017 review study, \"What scholars can agree on is that small states generally prefer multilateralism as both a path to influence and a means to restrain larger states. Studies of influential small states indicate that they are able to develop issue-specific power to make up for what they lack in aggregate structural power. Small states can, therefore, develop power disproportionate relative to their size on the few issues of utmost importance to them. In addition to prioritization, small states have successfully employed the strategies of coalition-building and image-building. Even though small state administrations lack the resources of their larger counterparts, their informality, flexibility, and the autonomy of their diplomats can prove advantageous in negotiations and within institutional settings.\"\n\nAlmost all studies of power in international relations focus on great power politics and it will for this reason not be discussed here. For, as László Réczei noted, power status hinges on the capacity for violence: \"If the notion of war were unknown in international relations, the definition of ‘small power’ would have no significance; just as in the domestic life of a nation it has no significance whether a man is less tall or has a weaker physique than his fellow citizen.\n\nMost of the small-state studies that make up the backbone of the small power research tradition were carried out in the heyday of non-alignment by scholars such as David Vital, Robert Rothstein, Maurice East and Robert Keohane.\n\nThe weakening of the non-alignment movement during the 1970s coincided with a gradual decline in small-state studies, culminating in Peter Baehr’s critical appraisal of the research tradition in which he questioned smallness as a useful framework for analysis. The small-power category was first taken into serious account with David Mitrany’s study on world government (\"pax oecumenica\") in 1933. Mitrany argued that the international community consisted only of two tiers of state powers: great and small.\n\nAsle Toje takes a view where great powers and small powers distinguish themselves through patterns of behaviour. Small powers are not down scaled great powers – or oversized microstates.\n\nThere is no one definition of small powers. Therefore, they have been defined in various ways. As Thorhallsson and Steinsson point out, shortage of the resources and capabilities that determine power and influence are central to most definitions of small powers. The most common factor for defining state size, however, they continue is population size. Besides the size of population, other variables such as territory, economy, and military capabilities are also used.\n\nEven though the most common factor for defining small powers is the size of the population, there is not an agreement of how populous states should be to be defined as small or middle powers. Although states with less than 10 or 15 million inhabitants are regarded as small by most academics, states with up to 30 million inhabitants are sometimes considered small. Others, however, think of size as a relative concept where the influence of great powers is seen as far greater and the influence of middle powers moderately greater than those of small powers. Additionally, small states barely have the capabilities to influence the international system.\n\nInstead of focusing solely on one factor, Thorhallsson proposes a framework that intertwines multiple factors. In that regard, factors such as fixed size (population and territory), sovereignty size (the degree to which a state controls its internal affairs and borders and is recognized), political size (military and administrative capabilities, domestic cohesion, and foreign policy consensus), economic size (GDP, market size, and development), perceptual size (how a state is perceived by internal or external actors), and preference size (the ideas, ambitions, and priorities of domestic elites regarding their role in the international system) are given equal value as opposed to just a single factor.\n\nTo answer the question of what constitutes a small state, many different criteria must be regarded. Many factors, both subjective and objective, can contribute to what is perceived as the size of a state, so there is no one entirely fulfilling definition. No matter how diverse criteria are used to define the size of states, no one method will suffice to group the states of the world today because of their diversity. For example, the easiest and most often used indicators of the size of a state, population and geographical area, already pose a problem if the world's states are to be grouped in two: small or large. In that case, extremely different countries like San Marino and Sweden on one hand and Italy and China on the other would get grouped together.\n\nIn their article \"Introduction: Small states and the European Union\" Clive Archer and Neill Nugent mention Raimo Väyrynen’s definition of the axes along which the properties of small states had been measured in international relations literature by the time of Väyrynen’s survey’s publication in 1971. Although not perfect, it remains useful now despite its age, to capture the different approaches used when small states are identified:\n\n\"One axis considers whether the factors involved are endogenous or exogenous: that is to say, whether the smallness lies in the internal aspects of a country itself (such as its population or Gross Domestic Product [GDP] or in its relations with other states (such as the size of its armed forces or its alliance status). The other axis involves objective and subjective evaluations: that is, whether the smallness is seen in terms of ‘measureable’ elements (such as geographical area or size of the diplomatic corps) or ‘impressionistic’ elements (notably views held and/or expressed by practitioners and commentators either at home or abroad).\"\n\nIn the same paper, they mention the difficulty of categorizing a state as a small state based only on its size. They argue how the population size can determine the decision if a small state is considered small, but the actual parameters used for that approach can be rather complicated. They go on to explain how a state that has a population below one million falls into the category of a micro-state, but a state with a population over ten million would be better described as a medium-sized state. Also, that number is not necessarily the only one used for the measurement, mostly because of the similar sizes of some states. They use the examples of Central European states such as the Czech Republic and Hungary and the Benelux states, the original ten million margin would more logically be moved to twelve, so that it could include these countries on the small state spectrum. The exploration of these parameters is a big part of the small state debate, especially in Europe. The authors also mention the big difference between European, and for example Latin American or African countries. The states in Latin America unquestionably have larger populations, but that still does not really affect their placement in the category of small states, because their weakness in the international system is still noticeable and influences the way the states are seen as “small”. This is an important approach, since it makes it clear how aside from the geographical and population size, the country’s GDP, the ranking of a state in the international system, the political, economical and military power play an important role in putting a state somewhere on the spectrum.\n\nSmall states are usually more vulnerable to changes in the international system since they are more focused on survival than the bigger states. The costs of being exploited are way higher for small states and the effects of foreign-policy mistakes are much bigger, since the bigger states have a larger margin of time and error. So in some ways statesmen in small states have to watch more closely for external constraints. Using that reasoning, IR-theorists tend to believe that the foreign-policy of small states is more greatly influenced by the international system rather than their domestic politics.\n\nMiriam Fendius Elman talks about this in her article \"The foreign policies of small states: challenging neorealism in its own backyard\", adding that foreign policy of bigger states tends to be more influenced by their domestic politics:\n\n“By contrast, domestic politics will necessarily play a greater role in an explanation of great power foreign policy. Generally speaking, great powers are faced with a lower level of external threat in comparison to small states and thus have more options for action. This increased range of choice will tend to make foreign policy formation more susceptible to domestic political influences. Consequently, unit level variables cannot be ignored when explaining great power foreign policy.”\n\nShe continues to quote Snyder where he points out the importance of the size of state when its foreign policy is being analysed:\n\n“Similarly, Snyder assumes that the study of small state and great power behaviour require different analytical foci. He points out that 'among the great powers, domestic pressures often outweigh international ones in the calculations of national leaders'.'1 Since great powers 'enjoy a substantial buffer from the pressures of international competition', domestic political explanations are good predictors of their foreign policy strategies. When studying the foreign policies of small states, Snyder does not expect domestic political theories to fit as well. Whereas 'great powers adapt their foreign strategies to their domestic circumstances', small states are more 'exposed to the vagaries of international security and economic competition'. Since small state foreign policy strategies will reflect an attentiveness to external exigencies, international/structural explanations should suffice.”\n\nMore and more research is being done specifically on small states, how they develop their foreign policy, and how they are at some level completely different from larger states. Authors Alyson J.K. Bailes, Bradley A. Thayer, and Baldur Thorhallsson make the argument that small states differ from larger states in how they form alliances in their article \"Alliance theory and alliance 'Shelter': the complexities of small state alliance behavior\". They acknowledge that small states are naturally more vulnerable than larger states, due to smaller militaries, economies, and overall population size. However, they also argue that small states are not without power, especially when viewed through the theory of alliance of shelter.\n\nIn comparison with the more traditional international relations view that small states will always be obligated to seek protection from more power neighboring states and form alliances with them, the theory of alliance of shelter expands on and differs from this claim and viewpoint in six key ways. \nBaldur Thorhallsson and Alyson J. K. Bailes take the shelter theory even further and talk about how small states have three vulnerabilities, political, economic and societal. \nIt needs to be taken into account that these vulnerabilities come with a cost if small states look towards shelter by either organisations or larger states. The agreements small states have to make need to be beneficial for both them and the state providing the shelter, although the costs may differ between states. It is not always easy for the small states to negotiate on beneficial terms because \"shelter providers may impose conditions on smaller states in exchange for the shelter, reducing the small partner’s freedom of manoeuvre and choice.\" It is to be noted though that in Europe there are various important and inexpensive shelters available for small states.\n\nThough a single definition has proved elusive due to the number of potential variables and their particular interpretation under given conditions, Asle Toje claims to have found recurring traits in the research literature regarding the behavioural patterns of small powers on the international stage:\n\n\nSmall states can under some circumstances have a disproportionately great influence. According to Diana Panke, \"Small states tend to be most likely to punch above their weight if the negotiations take place in an institutionalised arena with majority-based decision-making rules in which each state has one vote or in contexts in which decisions are made unanimously, if they are selective in negotiations and concentrate their capacities on the most important issues, engage in capacity-building activities to maximise their ideational resources, if they make use of institutional opportunity structures such as chairing meetings and engaging in agenda-setting, and if they individually or collectively apply persuasion strategies from early on\".\n\nThe majority of the states in the world can be considered small states, but somehow there is less than ideal information about the activities of small states within international organisations particularly when it comes to influencing policy outcomes\n\nSmall states encounter size-related obstacles in different negotiation settings (the negotiation settings ranging between everything from the UN and the EU to the WTO) as well as in capacity-building and shaping strategies used to influence negotiation outcomes.\n\nA size-related obstacle would for example be the EU which uses a system of weighted voting, which gives bigger states a greater political leverage than smaller states. On the other and a lot of International Organisations use a “one state, one vote” principle which may appear to secure equality between states of various sizes. However, even if the formal voting itself is equal what happens in the background is not. Small states face size-related difficulties during negotiation processes in IO’s such as the UN because they often possess fewer administrative, financial and economic resources, which hinders them in participating in the negotiation process at the same level as the larger states. They are simply spread too thin across various issues and therefore resort to concentrating all their resources towards the issue of highest significance. Therefore, small states are forced to choose between their interests in negotiations. They also produce better results if they use persuasion based strategies rather than bargaining ones because they lack bargaining leverage.\n\nIn addition, delegates from smaller states tend to have speaking points for fewer issues and smaller budgets than the delegates from the larger nations; This gives the larger states a better position to influence outcomes both in weighted and equal weight voting systems.\n\nThere is a number of ways that small states can try to counter size-related obstacles.\n\n(Small states can engage in capacity-building, for example through contacts with or through joining coalitions. Capacity building can increase a state’s ideational capacities and amplify the effectiveness of persuasion-based strategies.\n\nCoalitions have burden-sharing effects and can increase the discursive leverage of its members\n\nSecondly small states can also use shaping strategies. Shaping strategies can include either legal, moral or normative argumentation applied in different negotiation settings. Framing and reframing is for example important for small states if there is a high number of delegations participating in the negotiations.\n\nThese strategies help small states compete, but they are not always enough for them to compete successfully.\n\nThe location of a small power can be very important for its survival. If a small power is working as a so call \"buffer state\" between two bigger rival power then it is more likely for that state to cease to exist Despite the fact that the buffer location can decrease the likelihood of a small powers survival does not mean that a state can't use its buffer location as an advantage. In the cod wars (a fishing dispute over a 20-year period between Iceland and the UK) the micro nation of Iceland was able to use both its small size and location as an advantage and won the conflict. One of the reasons is the threat by Icelandic authorities to leave NATO and kick the US defence force out of the country. When we look at the dispute from a Neoclassical realist perspective we can see that Icelandic statesmen put the core security in danger witch could spark up a huge tension in the North Atlantic area. When we turn our focus to the UK, it seems that they were not willing to go as far as the Icelandic government to win the dispute even though they had the military power to do so. According to Sverrir Steinsson, it seems that the simple liberal explanation is not enough on its own to explain the difference between the nations in a satisfactory way. Even though many Icelandic officials did not want to leave NATO over the fishing dispute, they had enormous pressure from the public to do so if the dispute would not end, while the UK had much less public pressure over the issue. According to Steinsson´s result it seems that small powers are much more affected by domestic view then bigger powers witch can increase the chances of a small state leaving an international organisation\n\nSmall states’ power can be categorized as \"particular-intrinsic\", “\"derivative\"” and \"collective\". Through one of these three types of power can small states best seek their needs and interest. Middle or great powers are not precluded from these types of power, only the limitations of the small states force them to rely on them more. Small states have different goals and different bases, i.e. ideational, material and relational bases. Bases are the resources that a state has and can exploit in order to effect another’s behavior. This variation of small states’ bases lead to a variety of means of power. Means in this context are the ways a state utilizes its base. The three categories of power all have different bases and therefore different means, best understood as small states’ properties and its actions.\n\n\"Particular-Intrinsic Power\"\n\nSmall states lack many of the factors that usually determine capability. Some may however possess a particular form of intrinsic power. Particular-intrinsic resources can serve as the base of small states’ power but the resources will only gain importance through the states actions. For example, small states may rely on their strategic location or material possessions. Identity can also be a potential base for the exercise of power.\n\n\"Derivative Power\"\n\nSmall states that lack material capabilities can try to persuade larger states to take actions that will increase their interests and thus derive power. In this category of power the base is the relationship between the great power and the small state. The means of this power will depend on the small states’ goals and the type of relationship it has with the larger state. In a friendly relationship, for example, there can be the possibility for an access to policy discourses.\n\n\"Collective Power\"\n\nThe base of collective power is the relationship a small state has to other small states. This type of power can be achieved through single-issue groupings, institutionalism or by leveraging allies in pursuance of one state’s cause. Furthermore, collective power can be either institutional or compulsory. A collective power is compulsory when a large state is directly pressured by small states to change its policies through promises or threats. Institutions can provide small states with protection and a voice. They can provide the ability for small states to influence rules and be used to broaden norms in the international field. International organizations are particularly useful for small states in terms of norm promoting activities.\n\nSince small states are more dependent on their leading economic sector more than larger states. The Nordic states of Denmark, Sweden and Finland have sought shelter in the European Union while the remaining others, Iceland and Norway, do not. The five Nordic states have differences that are important to their industrial structures as Lars Mjoset, a Norwegian political economist, pointed out.\n\nIngebritsen noted that: Each Nordic government had to respond to a different set of interest groups – some that anticipated positive benefits of European integration and others that anticipated undesirable costs\". One of the major differences is how dependant nations are on their raw materials and manufacturing production.\n\nFor example, Iceland is a nation that is heavily dependent on fishing as its main export and therefore seeks to protect its fisheries. If Iceland would join the EU it would have to share the market as well as its fishing grounds with for example Spain and Portugal. ‘ In Iceland, fishing is a strategic sector: the interests of fishermen are synonymous with government policy goals. Icelanders are uncompromising when it comes to fish’ (ibid, p. 127). This can be seen in more recent events when the Icelandic government put membership to the EU to a national vote following the financial crisis, in which the Icelandic people voted ‘no’ – the fisheries being the too great of a risk factor following membership (ibid).\n\nHowever, Norway is in a much stronger position in the international community with less dependency on the ‘internationally oreinted manufacturing sector and more reliant on a single industry for its export revenue: the petroleum sector’ (ibid, p. 129). Norwegians hold power with their petroleum sector and have access to important markets for petroleum in Europe without having to join the EU (ibid, p. 130).\n\nDenmark joined the EC in 1973 although with agriculture being the dominant sector at the time, however in recent years manufactured goods have become the largest sector for the Danish national income. (ibid, p. 122). Danes remained quite supportive and optimistic about the EC with even the support of Trade Unions: The trade union movement supports the completion of the internal market’; ‘including the removal of the technical and physical barriers to trade, and the liberalization of competition within the EC’ Unlike Iceland, Danish farmers welcomed the competition and access to more markets\n\nDespite this the Danes have remained active in judging new treaties in the EC/EU and been very observant for national interests, for example by voting no to the Maastricth Treaty on June 2, 1992. However, it did not affect the Danes in the long run and they did sign the treaty eventually.\n\n,Sectoral differences between the Nordic applicants to the EC in the 1970s (Norway and Denmark) can account for the reason why the Danes decided to enter the EC and the Norwegian goernent failed to achieve a majority in favor of joining the EC.\n\nSweden was also very pro-EC and joined in 1995. The Swedish industry had been international for a long time but after moving a lot of their operations into the European markets the businesses managed to convince the government it was in the national interest to follow their example. Such active, well coordinated deep integration outside Sweden was only seen in Finland who embraced the EC into the roots of society (ibid, pp. 143–144).\n\nThe following is a list of countries that are described as being small powers:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1546216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1546216", "title": "Spirit of place", "text": "Spirit of place\n\nSpirit of place (or soul) refers to the unique, distinctive and cherished aspects of a place; often those celebrated by artists and writers, but also those cherished in folk tales, festivals and celebrations. It is thus as much in the invisible weave of culture (stories, art, memories, beliefs, histories, etc.) as it is the tangible physical aspects of a place (monuments, boundaries, rivers, woods, architectural style, rural crafts styles, pathways, views, and so on) or its interpersonal aspects (the presence of relatives, friends and kindred spirits, and the like).\n\nOften the term is applied to a rural or a relatively unspoiled or regenerated place — whereas the very similar term sense of place would tend to be more domestic, urban, or suburban in tone. For instance, one could logically apply 'sense of place' to an urban high street; noting the architecture, the width of the roads and pavements, the plantings, the style of the shop-fronts, the street furniture, and so on, but one could not really talk about the 'spirit of place' of such an essentially urban and commercial environment. However, an urban area that looks faceless or neglected to an adult may have deep meaning in children's street culture.\n\nThe Roman term for spirit of place was Genius loci, by which it is sometimes still referred. This has often been historically envisaged as a guardian animal or a small supernatural being (puck, fairy, elf, and the like) or a ghost. In the developed world these beliefs have been, for the most part, discarded. A new layer of less-embodied superstition on the subject, however, has arisen around ley lines, feng shui and similar concepts, on the one hand, and urban leftover spaces, such as back alleys or gaps between buildings in some North-American downtown areas, on the other hand.\n\nThe western cultural movements of Romanticism and Neo-romanticism are often deeply concerned with creating cultural forms that 're-enchant the land', in order to establish or re-establish a spirit of place.\n\nModern earth art (sometimes called environment art) artists such as Andy Goldsworthy have explored the contribution of natural/ephemeral sculpture to spirit of place.\n\nMany indigenous and tribal cultures around the world are deeply concerned with spirits of place in their landscape. Spirits of place are explicitly recognized by some of the world's main religions: Shinto has its Kami which may incorporate spirits of place; Christianity has spirits of place in the Angelic Choirs of Dominions and Principalities, Hinduism, Vajrayana and Bonpo traditions.\n\nBetween 1988 and 1993, five annual Spirit of Place Symposiums were produced by environmental psychologist James Swan and Roberta Swan, in the United States and Japan. The programs sought to explore the relationship between ancient wisdom about the importance of a sense or spirit of a place, and modern science and design. The programs—held in Davis, CA; Grace Cathedral, San Francisco' Mesa Verde National Park; Tenri, Japan; and San Rafael, CA—featured over 350 speakers, including scientists, designers, and representatives of natives cultures. They also included concerts by Paul Horn, Anna Halprin, Steven Halpern, and R. Carlos Nakai. The five programs attracted an audience of 10,000, and featured on national TV in the United States and Japan. The 1992 symposium held in Tenri, Japan, was the largest environmental conference in Japan that year. Representatives of 20 different American Indian tribes, Ainu, Inuit, Aborigine, and African traditional cultures were speakers in the series. Two anthologies edited by James and Roberta Swan, \"The Power of Place\" (Quest, 1991) and \"Dialogues with the Living Earth\" (Quest, 1996) present a selection of presentations at the Spirit of Place Symposiums.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17185577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17185577", "title": "Tehuantepec Ridge", "text": "Tehuantepec Ridge\n\nThe Tehuantepec Ridge is a linear undersea ridge located off the west coast of Mexico in the Pacific Ocean. It is the remnant of an old fracture zone, and not a tectonic spreading center ridge (\"see\" mid-ocean ridge). It extends from the eastern end of the Clipperton Fracture Zone northeastward toward Mexico into Chiapas and El Chichón until it is subducted into the Middle America Trench. It lies within the tectonic Cocos Plate, separating the lower and older seafloor of the Guatemala Basin which lies southeast of the ridge from higher and younger seafloor which lies to its northwest.\n\nCurrent research indicates that the ridge was formed as a fracture zone and transform fault along the East Pacific Rise. As a result of a change in the motion of the Pacific Plate about 13 million years ago, there was also a change in the orientation of the East Pacific Rise, which in turn reoriented the fracture zone, creating the current alignment that is today's Clipperton Fracture Zone. The Tehuantepec Ridge preserves the previous orientation.\n\nSome researchers have hypothesized that the subducted portion of the Tehuantepec Ridge under Mexico is responsible for the existence of El Chichón volcano as well as the other volcanoes of what is called the Chiapanecan Volcanic Arc. Studies of the 1982 eruption of El Chichón indicated its erupted output was unusual compared to other volcanoes in the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt which lies well to the northwest. The anomaly is thought to result from the distinctive composition of the rocks which comprise the Tehuantepec Ridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "15471195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15471195", "title": "Transborder agglomeration", "text": "Transborder agglomeration\n\nA transborder agglomeration is an agglomeration or conurbation that extends into multiple territories, countries or states.\n\n"}
{"id": "43761636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43761636", "title": "Umuerum", "text": "Umuerum\n\nUmuerum is a town in Ayamelum Local Government Area in Anambra State, Nigeria.\n\nUmuerum or Umuolum in Ayamelum local government area of Anambra state in Nigeria is a town moderately populated on the shores of Omambala and Ezu River. The town is populated and is made up of the villages of Ukpambaka/Umunkwele, Ayigo, Umuodu/Umuoli, Umuerike/Obinagu and Otu-oyibo (general settlement area). Umuerum is geographically located in agriculturally rich land with main produce of yam, rice, cassava, maize and other assorted vegetables. The river tributaries and lakes allow the town to enjoy good stock of fresh water fish. In 1970s oil companies discovered oil and gas deposits in large quantities and have not yet been exploited by Nigerian government. Umuerum is closely bordered by her sister towns Anaku, Omor, Umumbo and Awba (ovemmili).\n\n\nAyamelum is a Local Government Area in Anambra State, South-East Nigeria. Towns that make up the local government are: Omor, Umuerum, Umueje, Omasi, Igbakwu, Umumbo, Anaku, Ifite Ogwari.\n\nSt Mary Parish \nUmuerum, Nigeria 432108\nA Parish of Archdiocese of Onitsha\n\n"}
{"id": "43356013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43356013", "title": "Vaibhav Kaul", "text": "Vaibhav Kaul\n\nVaibhav Kaul (born 1991) is a Himalayan photographer, painter, geographer and environmental scholar. He is a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society and the Royal Asiatic Society, an alumnus of the Environmental Change Institute at the University of Oxford, and a researcher at the University of Sheffield. He has investigated socio-environmental change in the high-mountain regions of Lahaul, Garhwal, Kumaon and Sikkim in India. His landscape art, visual geomorphology and visual ethnography works have been exhibited and published in South Asia, Europe and North America. He collaborated with the film director Ross Harrison to make \"Facing the Mountain\", a 2016 documentary about faith, resilience and change in the Himalayas. He appeared in \"An Awakening\", a poetic Anglo-Himalayan art film that he created with the cinematographer John Seddon as part of a 2017 video autoethnography experiment.\n"}
{"id": "53274116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53274116", "title": "White Building, London", "text": "White Building, London\n\nThe White Building was an arts centre in London, England. It was developed in partnership with the London Legacy Development Corporation and was occupied by SPACE Studios from 2012 until its closure in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "53899336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53899336", "title": "Womyn's land", "text": "Womyn's land\n\nWomyn's land (also called lesbian land, wimmin's land, landdyke communities, or women's land) is a term which refers to intentional communities organized by women to empower women. These communities mainly exist in rural areas where land is utilized to establish counter-cultural, women-centered space, often without the presence of males. The first known women's land community in the US was the Sanctificationists, later known as the Woman's Commonwealth, which was established in Texas in the late 1870s to 1880s. In the 1970s, women's land-based communities that explicitly welcomed lesbians were established in the US, Australia, New Zealand, and western Europe. Many still exist today. Womyn's land-based communities and residents are loosely networked through social media; print publications such as newsletters; Maize: A Lesbian Country Magazine; Lesbian Natural Resources, a not-for-profit organization that offers grants and resources; and regional and local gatherings to form a social movement variously called the lesbian land movement, womyn's land movement, and/or landdyke movement.\n\nSome womyn's lands practice lesbian separatism, an idea which emerged as a result of the Radical Feminist movement in the late 1960s. Lesbian separatism is based on the idea that women must exist separately from men, socially and politically, in order to achieve a true feminist or lesbian utopia. The radical feminist group Cell 16 is often credited for establishing the base of ideas that define lesbian separatism. These separatist communities exist as a way for women to achieve female liberation by separating themselves from mainstream patriarchal society. Men are not allowed to live in, or enter these communities. Some communities ban male infants and/or male relatives.\n\nWomyn's lands, as well as lesbian separatism, have generated a wide range of criticisms. These criticism center around, but are not limited to, the lack of acceptance by many residents of bisexual and heterosexual women; the exclusion of transgender and transsexual women for not being biological females; ideological conflicts with local communities that include violence and threats of violence targeting residents of womyn's land; and local community concerns about social change, e.g. rising divorce rates and expanded lesbian visibility. Examples of present-day womyn's lands include Hawk Hill Community Land Trust, HOWL, Susan B. Anthony Memorial Unrest Home (SUBAMUH) and Sugar Loaf Women's Village. Today, these communities are facing decline as the founders age, as well as the struggle to connect with younger generations of women.\n\nFounded in the late 1870s to early 1880s, the Sanctificationists, later known as the Woman's Commonwealth, were a women's land-based commune first established in Belton, Texas. The community was originally established by Martha McWhirter and her women's bible study group on land that was inherited when the women's husbands died or quit the home. Residents of the commune were women and their dependent children; many of the women fled abusive homes to join the community. The Sisters embraced first wave feminist ideologies, and sought spiritual, economic, and social equality for women. To that end, they practiced celibacy as a way to liberate women from the spiritual degradation of heterosexual intercourse, the oppressive needs of children and child rearing, and male violence. The Sanctificationists were economically successful; they ran several boarding houses, two hotels, formed holding companies to manage their properties, and operated two farms to provide food for their multiple dining rooms. At one point, there were between 42 and 50 women members on record, including at least one African American woman who is thought to be a former slave. In 1899, the entire commune moved to Washington, DC where they opened boarding houses, a hotel, and participated in urban feminist organizations. McWhirter died in 1904, and the commune began a slow decline. In 1917, there were six remaining members who purchased a farm in rural Maryland to provide food for their urban dining halls, and to provide a pastoral retreat for themselves in a rural landscape. The last member of the commune died in 1983 at the age of 101.\n\nA brief article published in the lesbian separatist periodical, \"Austindyke (\"alternately spelled as \"Austin Dyke),\" in 1979 and then reprinted in \"Sisters United\" in 1980 described the Woman's Commonwealth as a forerunner of the lesbian land movement. It is unclear whether the Sanctificationists influenced the movement that flourished in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nRadical feminism advocates for the elimination of female oppression through a call towards social and political transformation of patriarchal society. Radical feminism grew out of other radical movements during the 1960s such as the Anti-War Movement. Women who took part in these radical movements felt under-represented in comparison to the men, which contributed to the formation of second-wave feminism and radical feminism.\n\nRadical feminist ideology is different from mainstream or liberal feminism because it believes that women's liberation can only be achieved through the re-ordering of patriarchal society, while mainstream/liberal feminism seeks equality within the current system in place. Radical feminism also focuses on sex as the root of female oppression, as opposed to social class and/or race. Notable radical feminist groups and organizations include Cell 16, Redstockings, The Radical Feminists #28 and The Furies Collective.\n\nLesbian separatism is rooted in the idea that women should and must exist separately from men in order to achieve a true feminist utopia. Lesbian separatist ideology has changed over time as the Radical Feminist Movement continued in its development. In the earlier stages of lesbian separatism the term \"lesbian separatist\" was considered synonymous to the term \"radical feminist\". However, as each group developed distinct ideologies, tension formed between radical feminists and lesbian separatists. Lesbian separatists used the separatist ideology as a way to \"test one's feminist commitment\", which resulted in a divide.\n\nAn increase in lesbian feminism essays and papers centered around the subject of lesbian separatism, influenced and shaped lesbian separatist ideology as well. Influential works which helped shape lesbian separatism included \"Lesbian Separatism: Amazon Analysis,\" the \"Collective Lesbian International Terrorists Papers,\" and Cell 16's \"No More Fun and Games: A Journal of Female Liberation\".\n\nLesbian separatism is not only practiced and utilized in communal areas such as womyn's lands; it is also practiced in separatist events and women-only spaces. One example of a feminist separatist event (the invited participants were womyn-born-womyn, girls of all ages, boys 10 and under) is the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival. This music festival was held in Michigan every year from 1976 to 2015. It was created by women for the purpose of establishing an annual safe, social space dedicated for lesbians and females alike. The Michigan Womyn's Music Festival embraced a separatist ideology by not permitting men, male children, or transgender women to participate in the festival.\n\nFeminist ideology maintains that the patriarchal institutions and social norms which make up society are the source of female oppression. Lesbian separatist ideology recognizes the oppression which results from patriarchal society, however, it asserts that the root of oppression derives from men themselves, individually and as a group. Unlike feminism, lesbian separatism views men as the main source of their oppression. Through this ideology, many lesbian separatists consider men as the sole perpetrators of adverse economic, societal, and cultural issues which affect them. As a result, lesbian separatists sought to construct autonomous Womyn's land communities where they could live segregated from men entirely.\n\nWomyn's land communities have been targeted for criticism. In the 1880s, the citizens of Belton, Texas blamed the Sanctificationists (also known as the Woman's Commonwealth) for rising separation and divorce rates, and of undermining the meaning of marriage through their practice of celibacy.\n\nIn 1993, residents of Camp Sister Spirit, located in rural Ovett, Mississippi, were criticized by local community leaders including Southern Baptist ministers, Jones County Deputy Sheriff Myron Holifield, and US Representative Michael Parker, who held well-attended town hall meetings and a fundraiser to raise money to force the camp to close. The Reverend John S. Allen, who was a pastor in Richton, a town close to Ovett, preached and wrote against Camp Sister Spirit citing biblical concerns about homosexuality. Residents of the land received bomb threats, hate mail, vandalism, death threats by phone, and other acts of terrorism. Local law enforcement officials downplayed the threats against Camp Sister Spirit and failed to adequately investigate. In 1994, then Attorney General Janet Reno asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to investigate the potential for violence against Camp Sister Spirit, and later sent federal mediators to attempt resolution. The opponents of Camp Sister Spirit refused to participate in mediation; a group filed one lawsuit against Reno, and another against Camp Sister Spirit. The conflict also appeared on talk shows and in a Congressional hearing with both sides arguing their different views.\n\nLesbian separatist communities have been criticized for exclusionary policies towards transgender, transsexual, bisexual, and heterosexual women. Usually, homosexual females are the only persons permitted to be a member of these communities. Some womyn's lands have also been criticized for excluding women of color and working class lesbians. In the past, lesbian separatist communities were also accused of being a privilege offered solely to the few who could afford the closed-off lifestyle.\n\nThe Michigan Womyn's Music Festival was an annual women's music festival held on privately-owned womyn's land near Hart, Michigan, that ran from 1976 through 2015. Controversy over the festival's principle that only womyn-born-womyn could participate began in 1991 and continued until the final gathering. Critics of MichFest included actress/comedian Lea DeLaria, music performers the Indigo Girls, poet Andrea Gibson, trans activist/comedian Red Durkin; and musicians Antigone Rising.\n\n\nSeveral novels have been published in English that have plots centering on womyn's land or female separatist communities (see Single-gender world). These include:\n\n\n\n"}
