{"id": "7918452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7918452", "title": "1572 in art", "text": "1572 in art\n\nThe year 1572 in art involved some significant events and new works.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51108873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51108873", "title": "Ashok Aklujkar", "text": "Ashok Aklujkar\n\nAshok Aklujkar is a Sanskritist and Indologist. He is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Asian Studies at the University of British Columbia. There he taught courses in Sanskrit language and in the related mythological and philosophical literatures (occasionally also in Indian \"belles lettres\" in general) from 1969 to 2006. Advanced students have worked under his guidance in the areas of Buddhist and Brahmanical philosophy, religion, and mythology. His published research is mostly in the areas of Sanskrit linguistic tradition and poetics. He has been a visiting professor at Hamburg, Harvard, Rome, Kyoto, Paris, Oxford and Marburg. He is most well known as the author of the textbook \"Sanskrit: an Easy Introduction to an Enchanting Language\", Richmond, BC: Svādhyāya Publications, most recent edition in 2005. He received an honorary D.Litt from the Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan, New Delhi in 2012.\n\nDr Ashok Aklujkar, the author of \"Sanskrit: an Easy Introduction to an Enchanting Language\", received his M.A. degree in Sanskrit and Pali from the University of Poona and his Ph.D. degree in Sanskrit and Indian Studies from Harvard University. He taught courses in Sanskrit language and in the related mythological and philosophical literatures (occasionally also in Indian belles lettres in general) at the University of British Columbia between 1969 and 2001. His published research is mostly in the areas of Sanskrit linguistic tradition and poetics. For the last several years he is engaged in the ambitious project of preparing critical editions of the works of Bhartihari, a grammarian-philosopher, and of the commentaries elucidating those works. Advanced students have worked under Aklujkar's guidance in the areas of Buddhist and Brahmanical philosophy, religion, and mythology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Appā-śāstrī sāhitya-samīkṣā\", 1965; \"Sanskrit: an Easy Introduction to an Enchanting Language\",1992, with many reprints; \"The Theory of Nipātas (Particles) in Yāska's Nirukta\", 1999; \"Linguistic Traditions of Kashmir (with Mrinal Kaul)\", 2008.\n\nMore than 90 research articles and 19 long reviews in The Journal of the American Oriental Society, Wiener Zeitschrift der Kunde Suedasiens, Indo-Iranian Journal, Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Adyar Library Bulletin, etc.\n\nAbout 56 poems, light essays, editorials, etc. in Sanskrit and Marathi in \"Bhārata-vāṇī\", \"Śāradā\", \"Saṁskṛta-pratibhā\", \"Ekatā\" etc. About 18 books, with 12 of them concerning Bhartr-hari, a grammarian-philosopher, within range of completion. Several articles that would ultimately change some of the paradigms of Indological research are in the press or will soon be sent for publication.\n\n(a) University of British Columbia, Ashok Aklujkar, Ph.D.\n\n(b) Digital commons, Saṃskṛta-Sādhutā ‘Goodness of Sanskrit’: Studies in Honour of Professor Ashok Aklujkar\n"}
{"id": "11510641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11510641", "title": "Australasian Society for Historical Archaeology", "text": "Australasian Society for Historical Archaeology\n\nThe Australasian Society for Historical Archaeology (ASHA) was founded as the Australian Society for Historical Archaeology in 1970 by Judy Birmingham, then a lecturer at the University of Sydney. Its aims were, and still are, to promote the study of historical archaeology in Australia.\n\nThe Australian Society for Historical Archaeology, came out of the developing interest in archaeology in Australia in the 1970s, and in particular the increasing interest generated by uncovering of Colonial period archaeology in Port Arthur, Sydney Cove, The Rocks and other parts of New South Wales, as well as the first historical archaeology course at the University of Sydney, in 1974.\n\nIn 1991 the society was extended to include New Zealand and the Asia-Pacific region generally, and its name was changed to the Australasian Society for Historical Archaeology. In the mid-1990s the Society's committee moved from being Sydney based to being a more Australasian wide committee (Neville Ritchie, the then president lived in New Zealand) reflecting the growth of historical archaeology in the region.\n\nThe society's activities include public lectures and an annual conference with papers presented by national and international speakers. It promotes the exchange of information and reference material relating to historical archaeology in Australia and overseas.\n\n \nASHA publishes the \"ASHA Newsletter\" and the journal \"Australasian Historical Archaeology\", (distributed free to members of the Society), as well as the \"Occasional Papers\" series and monographs. Initially ASHA published only a \"Newsletter\" which was important in conveying relevant news and information (often research findings). In 1983 the society began publishing the \"Australian Journal of Historical Archaeology\" under the editorship of Graham Connah. This provided the only venue for publishing the results of historical archaeological research in Australia. In 1981 the journal was renamed to reflect the contribution of New Zealand Historical Archaeology and became the \"Australasian Historical Archaeology\", and has remained the main journal in Australia for publication of research and excavation results from Historical Archaeological Projects.\n\nThe first volume included 'A first bibliography of historical archaeology in Australia', which was subsequently updated. It has been important in developing theory and practice in Historical Archaeology, with early analytical articles such as Graham Connah's 'Stamp-collecting or increasing understanding', which he followed up with the answer in 1998 in 'Pattern and purpose in Historical Archaeology'. This was followed by Mackay and Karskers review of Connah's approasial, focusing on the \"...contribution of other forms of public archaeology in Australia in the\nlate twentieth century.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11202058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11202058", "title": "Barhaspatya sutras", "text": "Barhaspatya sutras\n\nThe Bārhaspatya-sūtras (a patronymic of Brhaspati), also Lokāyata (\"materialistic\", \"atheistic\") sutras is the foundational text of the Cārvāka school of \"materialist\" (nastika) philosophy.\n\nProbably dating to the final centuries BC (the Mauryan period), this text has been lost, and is known only from fragmentary quotations. Dakshinaranjan Shastri in 1928 published 60 such verses. In 1959, he published 54 selected verses as \"Barhaspatya sutram\". Shastri was of the opinion that many more fragments could be recovered. Bhattacharya (2002) attempts a new reconstruction, with the caveat that the more verses are listed, the greater the uncertainty that it will be either misquoted or foreign materials included as a part of the text.\n\nMost of the fragments are found in works dated to the Indian Middle Ages, roughly between the 8th and 12th centuries. The extensive 14th century treatise on Indian philosophy by Madhava Vidyaranya the \"Sarvadarshanasamgraha\", gives a detailed account of Cārvāka, but it doesn't quote Cārvāka texts directly, instead paraphrasing the doctrine according to the understanding of a learned 14th century Vedantin. Bhattacharya lists 68 items on 9 pages.\n\n"}
{"id": "55886296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55886296", "title": "Beverley Bryan", "text": "Beverley Bryan\n\nBeverley Bryan (born 1950) is a retired Jamaican academic who was a professor of language education at the University of the West Indies in Mona.\n\nBryan was born in Portland, Jamaica, but immigrated to England at an early age as part of the \"Windrush generation\". She and her parents settled in Brixton, London, which had a large Afro-Caribbean community. Bryan studied teaching at Keele University, Staffordshire, and moved back to Brixton to teach at a primary school. Bryan later undertook further studies at the University of London, graduating with a B.A. in English, an M.A. and Ph.D. in language education. She was a member of the British Black Panthers in the early 1970s, and later helped found the Black Women's Group, which shared similar radical views. \n\nShe co-authored with Stella Dadzie and Suzanne Scafe the book \"The Heart of the Race\", published in 1985 by Virago and reissued in 2018 by Verso (with a new foreword by Lola Okolosie, and including and an interview with the authors by Heidi Safia Mirza, focusing on the impact of the book since publication and its continuing relevance).\n\nIn 1992, Bryan moved back to Jamaica to join the University of the West Indies (UWI) as a lecturer in educational studies. She was promoted to senior lecturer in 2002 and to professor in 2011, and served as head of the Department of Educational Studies. Bryan is a leading authority on Jamaican Creole learners of English, and has worked as a consultant to the Ministry of Education on language policy. She has also advised other Caribbean governments on literacy policies, as well as serving as a member of the United Nations Literacy Decade Experts' Group. She was one of the founders of the Caribbean Poetry Project, a collaboration between UWI and the University of Cambridge which aims to increase the visibility of Caribbean writers in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "17222145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17222145", "title": "Biography (journal)", "text": "Biography (journal)\n\nBiography: An Interdisciplinary Quarterly is an international, academic journal that provides a forum for biographical scholarship. Its articles explore the theoretical, generic, historical, and cultural dimensions of life-writing; and the integration of literature, history, the arts, and the social sciences as they relate to biography. It also offers reviews, concise excerpts of reviews published elsewhere, an annual bibliography of works about biography, and listings of upcoming events, calls for papers, and news from the field.\n\nThe journal was founded in 1978 by George Simson, a professor of literature at the University of Hawaii. Simson also founded the nonprofit Biographical Research Center (BRC) and the University's Center for Biographical Research (CBR).\nThe journal is owned by the BRC and published by the University of Hawaii Press. For several years Professor Donald James Winslow of the University of Boston was the magazine's bibliographer. In 1994, the editorship passed to Craig Howes at the University of Hawaii, who gradually expanded the content and instigated a redesign in 1999. The journal's first electronic edition appeared in 2000 on Project MUSE.\n\n\"Biography\" appears quarterly, in Winter, Spring, Summer, and Fall issues. From volume 22 (1999), the first issue of each year has contained a collection of articles on a particular theme, the first one serving as a Festschrift for George Simson. The final issue of each year contains an annual bibliography of works on life-writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "20040558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20040558", "title": "Blagaj", "text": "Blagaj\n\nBlagaj is a village-town in the south-eastern region of the Mostar basin, in the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It stands at the edge of Bišće plain and is one of the most valuable mixed urban and rural structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, distinguished from other similar structures in its urban layout. Blagaj was most likely named for its mild weather patterns since \"blaga\" in Serbo-Croatian means \"mild\".\nBlagaj is situated at the spring of the Buna river and a historical tekke (\"tekija\" or Dervish monastery). The Blagaj Tekija was built around 1520, with elements of Ottoman architecture and Mediterranean style and is considered a national monument. Blagaj Tekke is a monastery built for the Dervish cults. \n\nVrelo Bune is the source of the Buna river is a strong karstic spring. The river flows west for approximately and joins the Neretva near the village Buna. The historic site of the Old Blagaj Fort (\"Stjepan grad\"), on the hill above Blagaj, was the seat of Herzegovinian nobleman, Stjepan Vukčić, and the birthplace of Bosnian queen Katarina Kosača-Kotromanić.\n\nDuring the classical antiquity there existed an Illyrian fortress and a Roman \"castrum\". During the reign of Byzantine Emperor Justinian, several fortified towns were built in the area. Blagaj was mentioned in Constantine Porphyrogenitus’ work De Administrando Imperio as Bona, then part of Zahumlje (\"Hum\").\n\nIn the late 12th century, during the rule of Stefan Nemanja (Grand Principality of Serbia), prefect Jurko raised a church dedicated to saints Cosmas and Damian. In the 14th century, during the reign of Bosnian Ban Stjepan II Kotromanić, Hum became part of the Bosnian state. In the 15th century Sandalj Hranić Kosača and his nephew Stephen Vukčić Kosača ruled the Hum and Blagaj territory until the arrival of the Ottomans in 1466. Blagaj is also known as a residential area of Bosnian rulers and particularly of royal families Hranić and Kosača.\n\nIn historical sources Blagaj was first mentioned in 1423. During the period of the Ottoman Empire, Blagaj was the seat of the Blagaj Vilayet, and was divided into several neighborhoods. The city had seven mosques, two inns, four \"musafirhana\" (guest houses), a madrasa (Bosnian: \"medresa\"), two maktab, seven mills and four stone bridges on the river Buna. Bosniaks were majority until 1835, during the Austro-Hungarian period Christians constituted twice as many. An Orthodox Church was built in 1893 and a Roman Catholic church in 1908.\n\nThe earliest Blagaj settlement was located at the foot of the Blagaj fort, where the road runs down from the fort and intersects with the Nevesinje road. There was too little trade for a commercial centre to emerge and in an agricultural environment of this kind the circumstances did not give rise to an urban settlement.The urbanization of the area (in the form we know today) was defined in the second half of the 15th century, and its structure was shaped during the 16th century.\n\nHistorical sources frequently refer to mediaeval fortress Blagaj Fort (\"Stjepan grad\") as a distinct territorial entity. During the Ottoman period construction of buildings was initiated in the fortress outskirts (houses and public edifices.\nThe residential areas were formed as urban quarters or mahalas, with buildings facing inwards - onto their courtyards. Resident complexes display evidence of a high standard of living and the Velagić house complex is one of the most valuable of this type in Herzegovina. The town mostly developed along the right bank of river Buna because the left bank is somewhat steeper and less suitable for construction.\n\nPublic buildings were positioned quite deliberately within the urban structure as a whole. Among the first edifices was the Careva (Imperial) mosque constructed in 1521, which helped the settlement acquire the status of kasaba. It was followed by the construction of Karađoz-beg bridge from 1570 and then the Leho bridge. \nUsing bold structural solutions played a vital role in architecture of Blagaj: addition of pillars and vaults, along with other structural elements, is quite evident. Barrel vaults, which were common in mosques, the tekke and the hammam – were raised to a high degree of perfection and made an entirely free ground plan possible. The synchronization of artisan crafts and construction techniques on the one hand and the development of the settlement on the other has left a mark on the Blagaj's image as a distinctive urban centre in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nDuring the reign of Austro-Hungarian Empire, Blagaj still retained its oriental-settlement character in its overall appearance as well as in its architectural and compositional details despite the obvious deterioration of the urban fabric.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51058920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51058920", "title": "Book and Author Luncheon", "text": "Book and Author Luncheon\n\nThe Book and Author Luncheon was created in 1938 by the American Booksellers Association. The program provided a prominent forum for authors to speak to the public about their works in one of the largest markets for books in the United States, New York City. \n\nThe ABA partnered with the New York Herald Tribune early in its first year, and with WNYC in its 11th season, in 1948. It would air on WNYC until the luncheon's end, in 1974. The Book and Author Luncheon produced 8 events per year, each with 2 to 4 speakers. It was held at a variety of locations in Manhattan, most frequently at the Waldorf Astoria. Though it predominantly featured authors as speakers, it drew from a wide variety of notable figures during its 31-year run. Some of its famous guest speakers include Vladimir Nabokov, James A. Michener, Jane Jacobs, Robert Moses, Rachel Carson, John Kenneth Galbraith, Sammy Davis Jr., Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. and Marian Anderson, among many, many others. It was hosted for the majority of its run by New York Herald Tribune Book Review editor Irita Bradford Van Doren.\n\n"}
{"id": "84107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84107", "title": "Carbon tax", "text": "Carbon tax\n\nA carbon tax is a tax levied on the carbon content of fuels.\nIt is a form of carbon pricing. Revenue obtained via the tax is however not always used to compensate the carbon emissions on which the tax is levied (see implementation).\nCarbon is present in every hydrocarbon fuel (coal, petroleum, and natural gas) and converted to carbon dioxide () and other products when combusted. In contrast, non-combustion energy sources—wind, sunlight, geothermal, hydropower, and nuclear—do not convert hydrocarbons to . is a heat-trapping \"greenhouse\" gas which represents a negative externality on the climate system (see scientific opinion on global warming).\nSince GHG emissions caused by the combustion of fossil fuels are closely related to the carbon content of the respective fuels, a tax on these emissions can be levied by taxing the carbon content of fossil fuels at any point in the product cycle of the fuel.\n\nCarbon tax offers social and economic benefits. It is a tax that increases revenue without significantly altering the economy while simultaneously promoting objectives of climate change policy. The objective of a carbon tax is to reduce the harmful and unfavorable levels of carbon dioxide emissions, thereby decelerating climate change and its negative effects on the environment and human health.\n\nCarbon taxes offer a potentially cost-effective means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. From an economic perspective, carbon taxes are a type of Pigovian tax. They help to address the problem of emitters of greenhouse gases not facing the full social cost of their actions. Carbon taxes can be a regressive tax, in that they may directly or indirectly affect low-income groups disproportionately. The regressive impact of carbon taxes could be addressed by using tax revenues to favour low-income groups.\n\nA number of countries have implemented carbon taxes or energy taxes that are related to carbon content. Most environmentally related taxes with implications for greenhouse gas emissions in OECD countries are levied on energy products and motor vehicles, rather than on emissions directly.\nOpposition to increased environmental regulation such as carbon taxes often centers on concerns that firms might relocate and/or people might lose their jobs. It has been argued, however, that carbon taxes are more efficient than direct regulation and may even lead to higher employment (see footnotes). Many large users of carbon resources in electricity generation, such as the United States, Russia, and China, are resisting carbon taxation.\n\nCarbon dioxide is one of several heat-trapping greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted by humans (anthropogenic GHGs). The scientific consensus is that human-induced greenhouse gas emissions are the primary cause of global warming, and that carbon dioxide is the most important of the anthropogenic GHGs. Worldwide, 27 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide are produced by human activity annually. The physical effect of CO in the atmosphere can be measured as a change in the Earth-atmosphere system's energy balance – the radiative forcing of CO. Carbon taxes are one of the policies available to governments to reduce GHG emissions.\n\nIn the Kyoto Protocol (an international treaty), CO emissions are regulated along with other GHGs. Different GHGs have different physical properties: the global warming potential is an internationally accepted scale of equivalence for other greenhouse gases in units of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.\n\nA carbon tax is a form of pollution tax (although carbon dioxide is naturally occurring). Pollution taxes are often grouped with two other economic policy instruments: tradable pollution permits/credits and subsidies. These three environmental economic policy instruments are built upon a foundation of a command and control regulation. The difference is that classic command-penalty regulations stipulate, through performance or prescriptive standards, what each polluter is required to do to be in compliance with the law. Command and control regulation is not considered an economic instrument as it is typically enforced by narrower means such as stop or control order, though it may include an administrative monetary penalty in site-specific regulations. The instrumental distinction between a tax and a command-and-control regulation is determined by the enacted legislative names, and whether they contain \"tax\" as a defined term within the Act, for example British Columbia's Carbon Tax Act versus Alberta's Specified Gas Emitters Regulation, Alta Reg 139/2007\n\nA carbon tax is also an indirect tax—a tax on a transaction—as opposed to a direct tax, which taxes income. A carbon tax is called a price instrument, since it sets a price for carbon dioxide emissions. In economic theory, pollution is considered a negative externality, a negative effect on a party not directly involved in a transaction, which results in a market failure. To confront parties with the issue, the economist Arthur Pigou proposed taxing the goods (in this case hydrocarbon fuels), which were the source of the negative externality (carbon dioxide) so as to accurately reflect the cost of the goods' production to society, thereby internalizing the costs associated with the goods' production. A tax on a negative externality is called a Pigovian tax, and should equal the marginal damage costs.\n\nWithin Pigou's framework, the changes involved are marginal, and the size of the externality is assumed to be small enough not to distort the rest of the economy.\nAccording to the scientific consensus, the impact of climate change may result in catastrophe and non-marginal changes. \"Non-marginal\" means that the impact could significantly reduce the growth rate in income and welfare. The amount of resources that should be devoted to avoiding climate change impacts is controversial. Policies designed to reduce carbon emissions could also have a non-marginal impact.\n\nPrices of hydrocarbon fuels are expected to continue increasing as more countries industrialize and add to the demand on fuel supplies.\nIn addition to creating incentives for energy conservation, a carbon tax would put renewable energy sources such as wind, solar and geothermal on a more competitive footing, stimulating their growth. David Gordon Wilson first proposed a carbon tax in 1973.\n\nThe social cost of carbon (SCC) is the marginal cost of the impacts caused by emitting one extra tonne of carbon (as carbon dioxide) at any point in time, inclusive of ‘non-market’ impacts on the environment and human health. The concept of a social cost of carbon was first mooted by the Reagan administration in 1981. The initial purpose of putting a price on a ton of emitted was to aid policymakers in evaluating whether a policy designed to curb climate change is justified. An intuitive way of looking at this is as follows: if the price of carbon is $50 per tonne in 2030, and we currently have a technology that can reduce emissions by 1 million metric tonnes in 2030, then any investment amount below $50 million would make economic sense, while any amount over that would lead us to consider investing the money somewhere else, and paying to reduce emissions in 2030.\n\nCalculating the SCC requires estimating the residence time of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, along with estimating the impacts of climate change. The impact of the extra tonne of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere must then be converted to equivalent impacts on climate and human health, as measured by the amount of damage done and the cost to fix it. In economics, comparing impacts over time requires a discount rate. This rate determines the weight placed on impacts occurring at different times.\n\nBest estimates of the SCC come from Integrated Assessment Models (IAM) which predict the effects of climate change under various scenarios and allow for calculation of monetized damages. One of the most widely used IAMs is the Dynamic Integrated model of Climate and the Economy (DICE).\n\nThe DICE model, developed by William Nordhaus, makes provisions for the calculation of a social cost of carbon. The DICE model defines the SCC to be \"equal to the economic impact of a unit of emissions in terms of t-period consumption as a numéraire\".\n\nThe SCC figure computed in 2015 is $31.2 per ton of for emissions, this amount will rise 3% in real terms, to account for inflation till 2050. Estimates of the dollar cost of carbon dioxide pollution is given per tonne, either carbon, $X/tC, or carbon dioxide, $X/tCO. One tC is roughly equivalent to 3.7 tCO.\n\nAccording to economic theory, if SCC estimates were complete and markets perfect, a carbon tax should be set equal to the SCC. Emission permits would also have a value equal to the SCC. In reality, however, markets are not perfect, SCC estimates are not complete, and externalities in the market are difficult to calculate accurately, resulting in an inaccurate carbon tax (Yohe \"et al.\"., 2007:823).\n\nEstimates of the SCC are highly uncertain. Yohe \"et al.\" (2007:813) summarized the literature on SCC estimates: peer-reviewed estimates of the SCC for 2005 had an average value of $43/tC ($12/tCO) with a standard deviation of $83/tC. The wide range of estimates is explained mostly by underlying uncertainties in the science of climate change (e.g., the climate sensitivity, which is a measure of the amount of global warming expected for a doubling in the atmospheric concentration of ), different choices of discount rate, different valuations of economic and non-economic impacts, treatment of equity, and how potential catastrophic impacts are estimated. One specific issue arises over coming to a consensus on what discount rate to use. Some, like Nordhaus, advocate for a discount rate that is pegged to current market interest rates, as we should treat efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions just like we treat any other economic activity. Others, like Stern, propose a much smaller discount rate because \"normal\" discount rates are skewed when applied over the time scales over which climate change acts. As a result, other estimates of the SCC spanned at least three orders of magnitude, from less than $1/tC to over $1,500/tC. The true SCC is expected to increase over time. The rate of increase will very likely be 2 to 4% per year. A recent meta-analysis of the literature on the estimates of the social costs of carbon, however, finds evidence of publication bias in favor of larger estimates.\n\nOrganizations that take an Integrated Management approach are using the social cost of carbon to help evaluate investment decisions and guide long term planning in order to consider the full extent of how their operations impact society and the environment. By placing a value on carbon emissions, decision makers can use this value to expand upon traditional financial decision making tools and create new metrics for measuring the short and long term outcomes of their actions. This means taking the Triple Bottom Line a step further and promotes an Integrated Bottom Line (IBL) approach. Prioritizing an IBL approach begins with changing the way we think about traditional financial measurements as these do not take into consideration the full extent of the short and long term impacts of a decision or action. Instead, Return on Investment can be expanded to Return on Integration, Internal Rate of Return can evolve into Integrated Rate of Return and instead of focusing on Net Present Value, companies can plan for Integrated Future Value.\n\nCarbon leakage is the effect that regulation of emissions in one country/sector has on the emissions in other countries/sectors that are not subject to the same regulation.\nLeakage effects can be both negative (i.e., increasing the effectiveness of reducing overall emissions) and positive (reducing the effectiveness of reducing overall emissions). Negative leakages, which are desirable, are usually referred to as \"spill-over\".\n\nAccording to Goldemberg \"et al.\". (1996, p. 28), short-term leakage effects need to be judged against leakage effects in the long-term.\nA policy that, for example, saw a carbon taxes set only in developed countries might lead to leakage of emissions to developing countries. However, a desirable negative leakage could occur due to a lowering in demands of coal, oil, and gas from the developed countries and thus the world prices. This will lead to developing countries being able to afford more of any hydrocarbon fuel type, thus being able to substitute more oil or gas for coal, in effect lowering their national emissions. In the long-run, however, if the transfer of less polluting technologies is delayed, this substitution by income effects might have no long-term benefit.\n\nCarbon leakage is central to the discussion on climate policy, given the confluence of issues that are currently being debated, including the 2030 Energy and Climate Framework and the review of the EU carbon leakage list by 2014.\n\nA number of policies have been suggested to address concerns over competitive losses due to one country introducing a carbon tax while another country does not. Similar policies have also been suggested in an attempt to induce countries to introduce carbon taxes. Suggested policies include border tax adjustments, trade tariffs, trade bans and deaths.\n\nBorder tax adjustments would account for emissions attributable to imports from nations without a carbon price. An alternative would be trade bans or tariffs applied to non-taxing countries. It has been argued that such approaches could be disadvantageous to a target country as a trade measure (Gupta \"et al.\"., 2007). To date, World Trade Organization case law has not provided specific rulings on climate-related taxes. The administrative aspects of border tax adjustments has also been discussed.\n\nTwo other types of taxes that are related to carbon taxes are emissions taxes and energy taxes. An emissions tax on GHG emissions requires individual emitters to pay a fee, charge or tax for every tonne of greenhouse gas released into the atmosphere while an energy tax is charged directly on the energy commodities.\n\nIn terms of mitigating climate change, a carbon tax, which is levied according to the carbon content of fuels, is not a perfect substitute for a tax on CO emissions. For example, a carbon tax encourages reduced use of hydrocarbon fuels, but it does not provide an incentive to mitigate or improve mitigation technologies, e.g. carbon capture and storage.\n\nEnergy taxes increase the price of energy uniformly, regardless of the emissions produced by the energy source (Fisher \"et al.\"., 1996, p. 416). An \"ad valorem\" energy tax is levied according to the energy content of a fuel or the value of an energy product, which may or may not be consistent with the emitted amounts of green house gases and their respective global warming potentials. Studies indicate that to reduce emissions by a certain amount, \"ad valorem\" energy taxes would be more costly than carbon taxes. However, although CO emissions are an externality, using energy services may result in other negative externalities, e.g., air pollution. If these other externalities are accounted for, an energy tax may be more efficient than a carbon tax alone.\n\nAnother type of tax is a fee and dividend, where the money collected from the tax is returned equitably to all households, effectively taxing carbon emitters and rebating those that burn less carbon.\n\nMany OECD countries have taxed fuel directly for many years for some applications; for example, the UK imposes duty directly on vehicle hydrocarbon oils, including petrol and diesel fuel. The duty is adjusted to ensure that the carbon content of different fuels is handled with equivalence.\n\nWhile a direct tax should send a clear signal to the consumer, its use as an efficient mechanism to influence consumers' fuel use has been challenged in some areas:\n\nSome also note that a suitably priced tax on vehicle fuel may also counterbalance the \"rebound effect\" that has been observed when vehicle fuel consumption has improved through the imposition of efficiency standards. Rather than reduce their overall consumption of fuel, consumers have been seen to make additional journeys or purchase heavier and more powerful vehicles.\n\nA carbon tax that compensates for the SCC varies by fuel source. The carbon dioxide production of the fuel source per unit mass or volume is multiplied by the SCC to obtain the tax. Based on the mean peer reviewed value ($43/tC or $12/tCO, see \"Social cost of carbon\", above), the table below estimates the tax:\n\nNote that the tax per kWh of electricity depends on the thermal efficiency of the generating power plant, which varies from power plant to power plant. The table follows the American Physical Society (APS) estimate of 10.3 BTU/Wh (33%).\nThe APS notes that \"It is expected that future plants, especially those based on gas turbine systems, often will have higher efficiency, in some cases exceeding 50%.\"The highest efficiency reached is 62% by the new EDF powerplant in Bouchain A theoretical conversion rate of 100% is 3.412 BTU/Wh. A more practical limit for thermal power plants is Carnot's theorem.\n\nBoth energy and carbon taxes have been implemented in responses to commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In most cases where an energy or carbon tax is implemented, the tax is implemented in combination with various forms of exemptions.\n\nCarbon Tax is payable in foreign currency at the rate of US$0.03 (3 cents) per litre of petroleum and diesel products or 5% of cost, insurance and freight value (as defined in the Customs and Excise Act [Chapter 23:02]), whichever is greater.\n\nA tax on emissions has been proposed for South Africa. Announced by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, the tax will be implemented starting September 1, 2015 on new motor vehicles. This tax will apply at the time of sale, and will be related to the amount of CO emitted by the vehicle. 75 South African Rand will be added to the price for every gram of CO per kilometer the vehicle emits over 120 g/km. The tax will apply to passenger cars first and eventually to commercial vehicles. Bakkies (pickup trucks) will be taxed because they are often used as passenger vehicles: this has caused an uproar for fear of affecting industry.\n\nDavid Powels of the National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa (NAAMSA), opposes this taxation on light commercial vehicles. The tax could increase the cost of new vehicles by 2.5% and cause a decrease in total automobile sales: in addition, Powels questions the ability to accurately predict CO emissions based on engine capacity. NAAMSA acknowledges the ability of carbon taxes to change consumer behavior for the betterment of the environment, but argues that this tax is not transparent enough for consumers because the taxation occurs at the time of automobile production. Powels says the tax is discriminatory because it targets new vehicles, and that the government should focus on introducing \"green fuel\" to South Africa.\n\nThe goal of the carbon tax is to put South Africa on a \"sustainable path\".\nSouth Africa has produced Long Term Mitigation Scenarios (LTMS) to address climate policy issues that consider variables such as technology, investment, and policy (including carbon taxes) and to clarify South Africa's position for potential UNFCC negotiations.\n\nThe Chinese Government Ministry of Finance had proposed to introduce a carbon tax from 2012 or 2013, based on carbon dioxide output from hydrocarbon fuel sources such as oil and coal.\nThe introduction of a carbon tax in China might affect the internal market, as well as many other laws and regulations of the country, but given the size of Chinese economy also contribute importantly to the mitigation of climate change.\n\nOn July 1, 2010, India introduced a nationwide carbon tax of 50 rupees per tonne ($1.07/t) of coal both produced and imported into India. In a budget speech in 2014, the finance Minister increased the price to 100 rupees per tonne ( $1.60/t at $60.5 conversion)\nIn India coal is used to power more than half of the country's electricity generation.\n\nIndia's total coal production is estimated to reach 571.87 million tons in the year ending March 2010 and is expected to import around 100 million tons. The carbon tax expects to raise 25 billion rupees ($535 million) for the financial year 2010–2011. According to then Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee, the clean energy tax will help to finance a National Clean Energy Fund (NCEF). Industry bodies have not favored the levy and fear that the resultant higher price of coal could trigger inflation.\n\nWhile many remain apprehensive, a carbon tax is a step towards helping India meet their voluntary target to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide released per unit of gross domestic product by 25% from 2005 levels by 2020. Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh told reporters in June 2010 that a domestic tax should come before a global carbon tax, and India has imposed one while others debate the issue.\nWith the new government in India under PM Narendra Modi, the carbon tax has been further increased form 100Rs per tonne to 200Rs per tonne in the Budget 2015-16. Currently the carbon tax stands at 400rs per tonne.\n\nIn October 2012, Japan introduced a Carbon tax with the goal to take action on mitigating dangerous climate change. The government plans to use the revenues generated from this tax to finance clean energy and energy saving projects.\n\nIn December 2009, nine industry groupings opposed a carbon tax at the opening day of the COP-15 Copenhagen climate conference stating, \"Japan should not consider a carbon tax as it would damage the economy which is already among the world's most energy efficient.\" The industry groupings represented the oil, cement, paper, chemical, gas, electric power, auto manufacturing and electronics, and information technology sectors. The sectors state that \"the government has neither studied nor explained thoroughly enough why such a carbon tax is needed, how effective and fair it is and how the payments are to be used.\"\n\nIn 2005, an environmental tax proposed by Japanese authorities was also delayed due to major opposition from the Petroleum Association of Japan (PAJ), other industries and consumers. The delay was \"to avoid putting too much economic burden on end-users as they were already paying heavy taxes on hydrocarbon fuels amid high oil prices.\" The tax that was to be implemented would be 2,400 yen ($20.85 in 2005 dollars) per tonne of carbon dioxide emitted from fuels. Tax on coal would be about 1.58 yen per kilogram and that on gasoline 1.52 yen per litre (4.3 cents per gallon in 2005 dollars). Officials estimated that the tax would generate income of 37 billion yen a year for the government and result in a payment of 2,100 yen per year for an average household.\n\nOn August 22, 2008, The Chong Wa Dae, also known as the Blue house – the executive office and official residence of the South Korean head of state, confirmed a list of 40 new administrative strategy agenda, which included substitution of a carbon tax with the current transportation tax. Most revenues of the tax amounting to an annual $11 trillion won ($10.4 billion) will be financed toward the \"Low Carbon, Green Growth\" move, which was announced in President Lee Myung-bak's speech marking the nation's 63rd Liberation day the week before the announcement. A carbon tax is imposed on emissions of greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide. The direct taxation system is now applied to several European countries, such as Sweden, the Netherlands and Norway, as well as several states in North America. The temporary transportation tax, one of the major objective taxes in the country, is slated to end in 2009. About 80 percent of its yield is used in transportation-related work like road construction. Additional taxation amendment could follow with a \"tax on emissions\" bottom line, in possible implementations of tax discrimination according to a vehicles' size and a carbon tax on the currently tax-free thermal power plants. Taxation on emissions is inevitable in that low carbon policies take substantial budget, the government says.\n\nIn February 2010, a deputy finance minister Yoon Young-sun confirmed that South Korea is considering a carbon tax to help reduce emissions 4% from 2005 levels by 2020. This would be in conjunction with a cap-and-trade program to be implemented later this year. With a tax rate of 31,828 won (25 Euros) per ton of CO, the South Korean government would collect 9.1 trillion won ($7.9 billion) in tax revenue based on 2007 emissions. Income from the carbon tax would be used to reduce corporate and income taxes. On July 22, 2010, Chairman Sohn Kyung-shik of the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry asked for the South Korean government to delay the implementation of the carbon tax: \"If the government applies much stricter guidelines over carbon emissions, then companies might be burdened.\"\n\nOn July 13, 2010, South Korea's government announced plans to more than double its financing for green research and development projects to 3.5 trillion won ($2.9/£1.9bn) by 2013. The finance ministry decided that the new investment will be put into a new dedicated green fund operated by the state-run Korea Finance Corporation, for distribution to private sector projects. The government said that the fund forms part of a huge low-carbon investment drive that will see it invest a total of 107.4 trillion won, or two percent of the country's annual gross domestic product, on green projects between 2009 and 2013.\n\nHowever, the government signaled that in addition to setting aside state funds, it will ask private companies to contribute 2.4 trillion won to the fund. It added that spending from the fund will be directed mainly toward business involved in greenhouse gas emissions reduction and promoting energy efficiency. In addition, the government intends to expand its system of tax breaks to cover new technologies in solar, wind and thermal power, low-emission vehicles, rechargeable batteries and next generation nuclear reactors.\n\nThe government also set a voluntary target last year (2007) to reduce 2020 emissions by four percent on 2005 levels by 2020, and is expected to soon announce plans for carbon trading scheme to begin in 2012.\n\nIn October 2009, vice finance minister Chang Sheng-ho announced that Taiwan was planning to adopt a carbon tax in 2011. However, Premier Wu Den-yih and legislators stated that the carbon taxes would increase public suffering from the recession and that the government should not levy the new taxes until Taiwan's economy has recovered. He opposed the carbon tax. Many Taiwanese citizens are opposed to tax increases as well. However, Chung-Hua Institution for Economic Research (CIER), the think-tank that was commissioned by the government to advise on its plan to overhaul the nation's taxes, had recommended a levy of NT$2,000 (US$61.8, £37.6) on each tonne of CO emissions. CIER estimated that Taiwan could raise NT$164.7bn (US$5.1bn, £3.1bn) from the energy tax and a further NT$239bn (US$7.3bn, £4.4bn) from the carbon levy on an annual basis by 2021. If Taiwan does pass the carbon tax policy, Taiwan would become the first Asian country with taxation on carbon emissions. Due to the amount of revenues from such a comparatively high carbon tax, the government is planning to subsidize low income families and public transportation by using the revenues from carbon taxes.\n\nOn 1 July 2012, the Australian Federal government introduced a carbon price of AUD$23 per tonne of emitted CO-e on selected fossil fuels consumed by major industrial emitters and government bodies such as councils. To offset the impact of the tax on some sectors of society, the government reduced income tax (by increasing the tax-free threshold) and increased pensions and welfare payments slightly to cover expected price increases, as well as introducing compensation for some affected industries. On 17 July 2014, a report by the Australian National University estimated that the Australian scheme had cut carbon emissions by as much as 17 million tonnes, the biggest annual reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in 24 years of records in 2013 as the carbon tax helped drive a large drop in pollution from the electricity sector.\n\nOn 17 July 2014, the Abbott Government passed repeal legislation through the Senate, and Australia became the first nation to abolish a carbon tax. In its place, the government set up the Emission Reduction Fund, paid by taxpayers from consolidated revenue, which according to RepuTex, a markets consultancy, estimated the government's main climate policy may only meet a third of the emissions reduction challenge if Australia is to cut 2000 levels by 5% by 2020.\n\nIn 2005, the Fifth Labour Government proposed a carbon tax in order to meet obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. The proposal would have set an emissions price of NZ$15 per tonne of CO-equivalent. The planned tax was scheduled to take effect from April 2007, and applied across most economic sectors though with an exemption for methane emissions from farming and provisions for special exemptions from carbon intensive businesses if they adopted world's-best-practice standards of emissions.\n\nAfter the 2005 election, some of the minor parties supporting the Fifth Labour Government (NZ First and United Future) opposed the proposed tax, and it was abandoned in December 2005. In 2008, the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme was enacted via the Climate Change Response (Emissions Trading) Amendment Act 2008.\n\nIn Europe, a number of countries have imposed energy taxes or energy taxes based partly on carbon content. These include Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, and the UK. None of these countries has been able to introduce a uniform carbon tax for fuels in all sectors. For a review of Europe's experience with carbon taxation see Andersen (2010).\n\nDuring the 1990s, a carbon/energy tax was proposed at the EU level but failed due to industrial lobbying.\nIn 2010, the European Commission considered implementing a pan-European minimum tax on pollution permits purchased under the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) in which the proposed new tax would be calculated in terms of carbon content rather than volume, so that fuels with high energy concentrations, despite their subsequently high carbon content, will no longer carry the same traditionally low price. According to the European Commission, the new plan will charge firms a minimum tax per tonne of carbon dioxide emissions at a suggested rate of €4 to €30 per tonne of CO.\n\nAs of the year 2002, the standard carbon tax rate since 1996 amounts to 100 DKK per tonne of CO, equivalent to approximately €13 or US$18. Net carbon emission tax from fuel combustion can vary depending on the level of pollution each source emits, the tax rate varies between 402 DKK per tonne of oil to 5.6 DKK per tonne of natural gas and 0 for non-combustible renewables. The rate for electricity is 1164 DKK per tonne or 10 øre per kWh, equivalent to .013 Euros or .017 US dollars per kWh. The CO tax applies to all energy users, including the industrial sector. But the industrial companies can be taxed differently according to two principles: the process the energy is used for, and whether or not the company has entered into a voluntary agreement to apply energy efficiency measures. Danish policies like this provide incentives for companies to put in place more sustainable practices similar to a cap and trade program on carbon dioxide.\n\nIn 1992, Denmark issued a carbon dioxide tax, which was about $14 for business and $7 for households, per ton of CO . However, Denmark offers a tax refund for energy efficient changes. One of the main goals for the tax is to have people change their habits, because most of the money collected would be put into research for alternative energy resources.\n\nFinland was the first country in the 1990s to introduce a CO tax, initially with few exemptions for specific fuels or sectors. Since then, however, energy taxation has been changed many times and substantially. These changes were related to the opening of the Nordic electricity market. Other Nordic countries exempted energy-intensive industries, and Finnish industries felt disadvantaged by this. Finland did place a border tax on imported electricity, but this was found to be out of line with EU single market legislation. Changes were then made to the carbon tax to partially exclude energy-intensive firms. This had the effect of increasing the costs of reducing CO emissions (p. 16).\n\nVourc'h and Jimenez (2000, p. 17) stated that arguments based on competitive losses needed to be viewed with caution. For example, they suggested that carbon tax revenues could be used to reduce labour taxes, which would favour the competitiveness of non energy-intensive industries.\n\nOn September 10, 2009, France detailed a new carbon tax with a new levy on oil, gas and coal consumption by households and businesses that was supposed to come into effect on January 1, 2010. The new carbon tax would be €17 (US$25) per tonne of carbon dioxide (CO) for households and businesses, which will raise the cost of a litre of unleaded fuel by about four euro cents (25 US cents per gallon). The total estimated income from the carbon tax would have been between €3-4.5 billion annually, with 55 percent of profit coming from households and 45 percent coming from businesses. The tax will not apply to electricity as mostly produced by France's network of nuclear reactors.\n\nOn December 30, the bill was blocked by the French Constitutional Council. It considered the bill included too many exceptions and said they were unconstitutional. It condemned the exemptions for industries as being unequal and inefficient, pointing out that less than half the whole emissions would have been taxed and saying it was unfair to apply the tax only to fuels and heating, which accounted for a limited part of carbon emissions. Discounts and exceptions would have applied to many aspects of industry and agriculture, including fishing, trucking, and farming. French President Nicolas Sarkozy, despite his vow to \"lead the fight to save the human race from global warming\", did not support the bill, saying that France needed support from the rest of the European Union before it would try and proceed with a carbon tax.\n\nIn 2013, a carbon tax was again announced for France. Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault launched the new Climate Energy Contribution (CEC) on September 21, 2013. The tax will apply at a rate of €7/tonne in 2014, €14.50 in 2015 and rising to €22 in 2016.\n\nThe German ecological tax reform was adopted in 1999. After that, the ecological law of the country was amended twice-in 2000 and in 2003. First of all, the law provided rung-by-rung growth of the taxes on fuel and fossil fuels and laid the foundation for the tax for energy. Only in 2003, after the law's gradual implementation, the amount of emissions reduced by 2.4%, which is 20 million tons of . Thus, the eco-tax is one of the most powerful instruments for climate protection in Germany. The number of workplaces rose by 250,000 jobs.\n\nIn 2004, following a policy review, the Irish Government rejected the introduction of a carbon tax as a policy option. However, in 2007 a Fianna Fáil-Green Party coalition government was formed, and promised to reconsider the matter. In the 2010 budget the country's first carbon tax was introduced. The new tax was levied at €15 per tonne of CO emissions (approx. US$20 per tonne).\n\nThe carbon tax applies to kerosene, marked gas oil, liquid petroleum gas, fuel oil, and natural gas. The Natural Gas Carbon Tax does not apply to electricity because the cost of electricity is already included in pricing under the Single Electricity Market (SEM). Similarly, natural gas users are exempt from the tax if they can prove they are using the gas to \"generate electricity, for chemical reduction, or for electrolytic or metallurgical processes\". \"A partial relief from the tax is granted for natural gas delivered for use in an installation that is covered by a greenhouse gas emissions permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency. The natural gas concerned will be taxed at the minimum rate specified in the EU Energy Tax Directive, which is €0.54 per megawatt hour at gross calorific value.\" Pure biofuels are also exempt.\nThe Economic and Social Research Institute has estimated the tax will cost between about €2 and €3 a week per household, or about €156 per year: a survey from the Central Statistics Office reports that Ireland's average disposable income was almost €48,000 in 2007.\n\nThere is concern that the carbon tax may disproportionately affect elderly persons and low-income households. One group, Active Retirement Ireland, proposes that \"an extra allowance of €4 per week be made to people in receipt of the State pension for the 30 weeks currently covered by the fuel allowance,\" they suggest that \"home heating oil be added to the categories covered under the Household Benefit Package, which is available to older people in receipt of the State pension\".\n\nThe tax is paid by companies to the Collector General. Fraudulent violation is punishable under section 1078 of the Taxes Consolidation Act 1997, which allows for a jail sentence of up to 5 years or a fine of no more than €126,970. Failure to comply with the tax violates section 73 of the Finance Act of 2010.\nPayment for the first accounting period was due in July 2010.\n\nThe NGO Irish Rural Link has noted that according to the Irish Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI) \"a carbon tax would weigh more heavily on rural households.\" Irish Rural Link claim that experience from other countries has shown that carbon taxation will only succeed if it is part of a comprehensive package of measures, which includes reducing some other taxes which does not appear to be the Government's approach.\n\nCarbon Tax was introduced in Ireland in the 2010 budget by the Green Party/ Fianna Fáil coalition government at a rate of €15/tonne which was applied to motor gasoline and diesel and to home heating oil (diesel). Electricity was exempted as electricity generation from fossil fuel power stations was covered under the EU ETS. Solid fuels including coal and turf were also exempted.\n\nIn 2011, the new government coalition of Fine Gael and Labour raised the carbon tax by 33% to €20/tonne. Farmers were granted a tax relief to compensate for this increase.\n\nThe Netherlands initiated a carbon tax in 1990. However, in 1992, it was replaced with a 50/50 carbon/energy tax called the Environmental Tax on Fuels, the taxes are assessed partly on carbon content and partly on energy content. The charge was transformed into a tax and became part of general tax revenues. As such, it fell under the administration of the Ministry of Finance. The general fuel tax is collected on all hydrocarbon fuels. Fuels used as raw materials are not subject to the tax. Tax rates are based 50/50 on the energy and carbon contents of fuels. In 1996, The Regulatory Tax on Energy, another 50/50 carbon/energy tax, was also implemented. The Environmental tax and the regulatory tax are 5.16 Dutch guilder, or NLG, (~$3.13) or per tonne of CO and 27.00 NLG (~16.40) per tonne CO respectively. Under the general fuel tax, electricity is not taxed, though fuels used to produce electricity are taxable. Energy-intensive industries used to benefit from preferential rates under this tax but the benefit was cancelled in January 1997. Also, since 1997, nuclear power has been taxed under the general fuel tax at the rate of NLG 31.95 per gram of uranium-235.38 The European Environment Agency put out an Executive Summary stating \"Although the 5th Environmental Action Programme of the EU in 1992 recommended the greater use of economic instruments such as environmental taxes, there has been little progress in their use since then at the EU level.\" However, \"at Member State level, there has been a continuing increase in the use of environmental taxes over the last decade, which has accelerated in the last 5–6 year...Countries including the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.\"\n\nMore recently, in 2007, The Netherlands introduced a Waste Fund that is funded by a carbon-based packaging tax. This tax was both used to finance the national Treasury and to finance the activities to help reach the goals of recycling 65% of used packaging by 2012. The organization Nedvang (Nederland van afval naar grondstof or The Netherlands from waste to value), which was set up in 2005, is the organization supporting producers and importers of packaged goods reaching individual company goals under the Dutch packaging decree. This decree was signed in 2005 and states that producers and importers of packaged goods are responsible for the collection and recycling of that waste, and that at least 65% of that waste has to be recycled. Producers and importers can choose to reach the goals on an individual basis or by joining an organization like Nedvang.\n\nThe Carbon-Based Tax on Packaging was analyzed on behalf of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment and proven to be ineffective. Therefore, the packaging tax was abolished. Producer responsibility activities for packaging are now financed based on private contracts, that have been declared legally binding.\n\nIn January 1991, Sweden enacted a CO tax of 0.25 SEK/kg ($40 per ton at the time, or EUR 27 at current rates) on the use of oil, coal, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, petrol, and aviation fuel used in domestic travel. Industrial users paid half the rate (between 1993 and 1997, 25% of the rate), and certain high-energy industries such as commercial horticulture, mining, manufacturing and the pulp and paper industry were fully exempted from these new taxes.\n\nIn 1997, the rate was raised to 0.365 SEK/kg ($60 per ton) of CO. In 2007, the tax was SEK 930 (EUR 101) per ton of CO.\n\nThe tax is credited with spurring a significant move from hydrocarbon fuels to biomass. As the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation climate change expert Emma Lindberg said, \"It was the one major reason that steered society towards climate-friendly solutions. It made polluting more expensive and focused people on finding energy-efficient solutions.\"\n\n\"It increased the use of bioenergy\", said University of Lund Professor Thomas Johansson, former director of energy and climate at the UN Development Programme. \"It had a major impact in particular on heating. Every city in Sweden uses district heating. Before, coal or oil were used for district heating. Now biomass is used, usually waste from forests and forest industries.\"\n\nEconomic growth appears to be unaffected. Between 1990 and 2006, Sweden's economy grew by 44-46 percent (approx 2,8% annually), depending on source.\n\nIn 1993, the UK government introduced the fuel duty escalator (FDE), an environmental tax on retail petroleum products. The tax was explicitly designed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the transport sector. Since carbon is in fixed ratio to the quantity of fuel, the FDE roughly approximated a carbon tax. The transport lobby in the UK was extremely critical of the FDE. The FDE, which was the UK's only \"real\" carbon tax, failed because of the political criticism it provoked, and the automatic increase of the FDE was cancelled in 1999. Increases in fuel tax have since been discretionary.\n\nThe politically damaging fuel protests in 2000 contributed to the government decision to reduce the real rates of fuel tax. At the time, tax and duty represented more than 75% of the total pump price. In money terms, the past increments of the FDE remain in force, but in real terms, increments have been reduced by the rate of inflation. In 2006, tax represented about ⅔ of the pump price.\n\nIn addition, the UK's Climate Change Levy was introduced in 2001.\n\nNorway introduced a CO tax on hydrocarbon fuels in 1991. The tax started at a high rate of US$51 per tonne of CO on gasoline, with an average tax of US$21 per tonne The tax was also applied to diesel, mineral oil, oil and gas used in North Sea\nextraction activities. The International Energy Agency's (IEA) 2001 Review of Norway in the Energy Policies of IEA Countries stated that \"since 1991 a carbon dioxide tax has applied in addition to excise taxes\non fuel.\" It is among the highest carbon taxes in the OECD. Carbon taxation is also applied to the production of oil and gas offshore. The IEA estimates for revenue generated by the CO tax in 2004 were 7,808 million NOK (about US$1.3 billion in 2010 dollars).\n\nAccording to IEA 2005 Review of Norway, Norway's CO tax is its most important climate policy instrument, and covers about 64% of Norwegian CO emissions and 52% of total GHG emissions. Some industry sectors have been granted exemptions from the tax to preserve their competitive position. Various studies in the 1990s, and an economic analysis by Statistics Norway, have estimated the effect of the CO tax to be a reduction of 2.5–11% of Norwegian emissions under a business-as-usual approach (i.e., the predicted emissions that would have occurred without the tax). However, even with the carbon tax, Norway's per capita emissions rose by 15% between 1991 (when the carbon tax was introduced) and 2008.\n\nIn attempt to reduce emissions by a larger amount, Norway implemented the first phase of an Emissions Trading Scheme in 2005 and joined the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) in 2008. As of 2013, roughly 55% of emissions in Norway are taxed and emissions that are not covered by a carbon tax are included in the EU ETS. Certain taxes are applied to emissions that result from petroleum activities on the continental shelf. This tax is charged per liter of oil and natural gas liquids produced, as well as per standard cubic meter of gas burnt off or otherwise directly emitted into the air. However, this carbon tax is considered a deductible operating cost for petroleum production which can therefore be written off to reduce the ordinary taxes paid by oil companies. In 2013, carbon tax rates were doubled in Norway to a rate of 0.96 NOK per liter/standard cubic meter of mineral oil and natural gas. As of 2016, the tax rate has been increased to 1,02 NOK per liter or standard cubic meter of oil and natural gas. Despite this increase, there is intention to reduce the tax in the future if there is a rise in the EU ETS price from the rate it was when the increased carbon tax rate was implemented. According to the Norwegian Ministry of the Environment, taxes have been the most important tool for reducing emissions produced by petroleum activities and there is a low level of emissions per produced oil equivalent.\n\nIn January 2008, Switzerland implemented a CO incentive tax on all hydrocarbon fuels, such as coal, oil and natural gas, unless they are used for energy. Gasoline and diesel fuels are not affected by the CO tax. The tax is collected by the Swiss Federal Customs Administration. It is an incentive tax because it is designed to promote the economic use of hydrocarbon fuels. The tax amounts to CHF 12 per tonne CO (US $11.41 per tonne CO), which is the equivalent of CHF 0.03 per litre of heating oil (US $0.108 per gallon) and CHF 0.025 per m of natural gas (US $0.024 per m). This tax comes from Switzerland's 1999 Federal Law on the Reduction of CO (CO Law). Although Switzerland prefers to rely on voluntary actions and measures to achieve emissions reductions, the CO Law mandated the introduction of a CO tax if voluntary measures proved to be insufficient. In 2005, the federal government decided that additional measures were needed to achieve emissions reductions and meet Kyoto Protocol commitments of an 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions below 1990 levels between 2008 and 2012. In 2007, the CO tax was approved by the Swiss Federal Council, coming into effect 2008. In 2010, the highest tax rate will be CHF 36 per tonne of CO (US $34.20 per tonne CO).\n\nCompanies are allowed to exempt themselves from the tax by participating in a Swiss cap-and-trade emissions trading scheme where they voluntarily commit to legally binding targets to reduce their CO emissions. Under this scheme, emission allowances are given to companies for free, and each year emission allowances equal to the amount of CO emitted must be surrendered by the company. Companies are allowed to sell or trade excess permits. However, should a company fail to surrender the correct amount of allowances, they must pay the CO tax retroactively for each tonne of CO emitted since the exemption was granted. About 400 companies take part in trading CO emission credits under this program. In 2009, for the second year in a row, the companies returned enough credits to the Swiss government to cover their CO emissions for the year. The 2009 report shows that companies emitted only about 2.6 million tonnes of CO, falling well below the total permissible quantity of 3.1 million tonnes. The Swiss carbon market still remains fairly small, with few emissions permits being traded. Swiss domestic law tends to favor the use of a CO tax to achieve emissions reductions and this preference for taxes combined with an immature carbon market could partially explain why Switzerland has not yet joined the European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS).\n\nThe tax is revenue neutral, and its revenues are redistributed proportionally to companies and to the Swiss population. For example, if the population bears 60% of the tax burden, they will receive 60% of the redistribution. For companies, revenues will be redistributed to all companies, except those who chose to exempt themselves from the tax through the cap-and-trade program. The revenue is given to the companies in proportion to the total payroll of their employees and is distributed through an AHV compensation fund (Federal Old Age and Survivors' Insurance) that pays the relevant amount of revenue to the company. The revenues from the tax that were paid by the Swiss population are redistributed equally to all Swiss residents through health insurance companies and a deduction on their insurance premium. In June 2009, the Swiss Parliament decided to allocate about one-third of the revenue from the carbon tax to a 10-year building program for climate-friendly building renovations. This program promotes building renovations, the use of renewable energies, the utilization of waste heat, and building engineering.\n\nAs part of the early-redistribution program decided by the Swiss Federal Council in 2009, the tax revenue from 2008, 2009, and 2010, are being distributed in 2010. In 2008 alone, the tax of CHF 12 per tonne of CO raised around CHF 220 million (US $209 million) in revenue. As of June 16, 2010, a total of around CHF 360 million (US $342 million) have become available for distribution to the Swiss population and economy. It is estimated that in 2010, at the highest tax rate of CHF 36 per tonne of CO, the revenue from the tax will be about CHF 630 million (US $598 million). Out of the projected CHF 630 million, CHF 200 million (US $190 million) will be allocated for the building program and the remaining CHF 430 million (US $409 million) will be redistributed in 2010 to the population and the economy. The International Energy Agency (IEA) commends Switzerland's CO tax for its excellent design and notes that the recycling of the tax revenues to all citizens and enterprises is \"sound fiscal practice\".\n\nSince 2005, transport fuels in Switzerland have been subjected to the Climate Cent Initiative surcharge—a surcharge of CHF 0.015 per litre on gasoline and diesel (US $.0038 per gallon) which will remain in place until the end of 2012. However, this surcharge can be supplemented with a CO tax on transport fuels if emissions reductions are not satisfactory. In their 2007 review, the IEA recommended that Switzerland implement a CO tax on transport fuels or increase the Climate Cent surcharge to better balance the high costs of meeting emissions reductions targets across sectors.\n\nSwitzerland is currently on track to meet its Kyoto Protocol commitment of an 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions below 1990 levels between 2008 and 2012. The combination of the CO tax and other voluntary measures by businesses and private individuals is enabling Switzerland to achieve these reduction goals.\n\nIn 1997, Costa Rica imposed a 3.5 percent carbon tax on hydrocarbon fuels. A portion of the funds generated by the tax go to \"Payment for Environmental Services\" (PSA) program which gives incentives to property owners to practice sustainable development and forest conservation. Approximately 11% of Costa Rica's national territory is protected by the plan. The program now pays out roughly $15 million a year to around 8,000 property owners.\n\nIn the 2008 Canadian federal election, a carbon tax proposed by Liberal Party leader Stéphane Dion, known as the Green Shift, became a central issue in the campaign. It would have been revenue-neutral, with increased taxation on carbon being balanced by tax cuts for individual citizens. However, it proved to be unpopular and contributed to the defeat of Liberal Party with its worst share of the popular vote since Confederation. By contrast, the Conservative party, who won the election, had promised to \"develop and implement a North American-wide cap-and-trade system for greenhouse gases and air pollution, with implementation to occur between 2012 and 2015.\"\n\nIn 2018, Canada passed the Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act implementing revenue-neutral carbon tax starting in 2019. This fulfils a campaign pledge that Justin Trudeau made in 2015, before being elected as Prime Minister of Canada. The Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act will apply only to provinces which do not have provincial carbon pricing systems meeting the federal requirements. In each province, the taxed money will be redistributed to citizens (households).\n\nCanada as a country absorbs more carbon than it emits. This is due to its large land mass (through Photosynthesis, calcium carbonate fixation). Canada produces about 1.5% of the world's emissions and is responsible for absorbing about 12% of the world's total emissions. The group \"Scientists Against Climate Change\" feels that only by tariffs/taxes on the polluting countries will planetary change be enacted. \n\nThe Canadian province of Quebec became the first in Canada to introduce a carbon tax. The tax was to be imposed on energy producers starting October 1, 2007, with revenue collected used for energy-efficiency programs including public transit. The tax rate for gasoline is $CDN0.008 per liter, or about $3.50 per tonne of equivalent.\n\nOn February 19, 2008, the province of British Columbia announced its intention to implement a carbon tax of $10 per tonne of Carbon dioxide equivalent (COe) emissions (2.41 cents per litre on gasoline) beginning July 1, 2008, making BC the first North American jurisdiction to implement such a tax. The tax will increase each year after until 2012, reaching a final price of $30 per tonne (7.2 cents per litre at the pumps). Unlike previous proposals, legislation will keep the pending carbon tax revenue neutral by reducing corporate and income taxes at an equivalent rate. Also, the government will also reduce taxes above and beyond the carbon tax offset by $481 million over three years. In January 2010, the carbon tax was applied to biodiesel. Before the tax actually went into effect, the government of British Columbia sent out \"rebate cheques\" from expected revenues to all residents of British Columbia as of December 31, 2007. In January 2013, the carbon tax was collecting about $1 billion each year which was used to lower other taxes in British Columbia. Terry Lake, the minister of the environment of British Columbia, said \"It makes sense, it's simple, it's well accepted.\"\n\nThe British Columbia revenue-neutral carbon tax is based on the following principles:\n\nFollowing implementation many Canadians concluded that the carbon tax generally benefitted the British Columbian economy, in large part because its revenue neutral feature did indeed reduce personal income taxes. However some industries complained loudly that the tax had harmed them, notably cement manufacturers and farmers. Nevertheless, the tax generated sufficient praise to attract broad attention in the United States and elsewhere from those seeking an economically efficient way of reducing the emission of greenhouse gases without hurting economic growth.\n\nIn July 2007, Alberta enacted the Specified Gas Emitters Regulation, Alta. Reg. 139/2007, (SGER). This carbon tax requires a $15/tonne contribution be made to the \"Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund\" (CCEMF) by companies that emit more than 100,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas annually to either reduce their CO emissions per barrel by 12 percent, or buy an offset in Alberta to apply against their total emissions.\nIn January 2016, the contribution required by large emitters to the CCEMF was increased by the provincial government to $20/tonne.\nThe tax will fall most heavily on oil companies and coal-fired electricity plants. It intends to give companies a real incentive to lower emissions while fostering technology that makes the job easier. The plan only covers the largest companies that produce 70% of Alberta's emissions. There are concerns that this is a serious omission because the smallest energy producers are often the most casual about emissions and pollution. The carbon tax is currently $20 per tonne. Because Alberta has the highest greenhouse gas emissions in Canada the majority of Albertans are strongly opposed to a nationwide carbon tax. There is a fear that a nationwide carbon tax would cause Alberta's economy to suffer significantly more in proportion to other provinces. Alberta is also opposed to a Cap and Trade system it fears the trades will pull revenue out of the province, a fear not to be dismissed. Alberta's local carbon price allows the money to stay within Alberta.\n\nOn November 23, 2015, the Alberta government announced a new carbon tax scheme very similar to British Columbia's in that it will be applied to the entire economy. All businesses and residents will pay a carbon tax based upon the carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, including the burning of wood and biofuels. The tax will come into force in 2017 with a price of $20 per tonne. The price will increase to $30 per tonne in 2018 and increase thereafter by the rate of inflation plus 2%.\n\nAlso announced will be the reduction of coal-powered electricity generation. Currently, coal provides 51% of the power in the province. The target is to eliminate coal generation by 2030. Renewable energy production (primarily wind and solar in Alberta) is targeted at 30% of generating capacity by 2030.\n\nThe effect on consumers will be an increase of 6.73¢ per litre for gasoline and $1.517 per gigajoule for natural gas. Because it is primarily generated from burning hydrocarbons, electricity prices are also expected to rise, although the exact amount is currently unknown. The total personal cost is estimated to be about $120 per capita, based on a $300 per household cost. Rebates will be provided to low income earners and temporary rebates provided to exporters to offset competitive disadvantages.\n\nAccording to the Carbon Tax Center, the United States is one of the few large and industrialized nations on Earth that does not implement a Carbon tax. One simple solution being considered is to implement a federal carbon emissions tax, instead of relying on states to enforce their own. According to economists a tax would be the simplest and the easiest way to reduce emissions since, primarily, it seems like a plan both parties can get behind since it would not impose strict regulations on business, instead allowing the industries to self regulate, while also a showing that the government is taking steps to protect the environment. Furthermore, a tax would lead both producers and consumers to adjust their respective habits accordingly, and in ways that may become more efficient. On July 23, 2018 Congressman Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) introduced H.R. 6463, the \"Modernizing America with Rebuilding to Kick-start the Economy of the Twenty-first Century with a Historic Infrastructure-Centered Expansion (MARKET CHOICE) Act.\" There is also a national movement called Citizens' Climate Lobby to create support across parties to put a national price on Carbon.\n\nInternal price on carbon\n\nAlthough the United States does not currently implement a carbon tax, many American corporations have set the precedent on setting an “internal price on carbon”. Companies calculate this internal price to assess the risk value of future projects when making economic investment decisions. Companies usually assess a higher internal price when i) the company emits large amounts of , and ii) when the company projects further into the future. Oil companies usually have assets (factories, refineries) that have a long lifespan and that can be affected by energy policies in the future; the products and assets of consumer-goods companies are mostly influenced by current policies, so their carbon prices are usually lower.\n\nOil companies like Shell and ConocoPhillips apply this carbon price to current and future operations; the motivation is to \"apply the carbon price as much to spur mitigation as to quantify risks\".\n\nTimeline for implementing social cost of carbon\n\nThe US Environmental Protection Agency has recently removed their page regarding the social cost of carbon since the new Trump administration has been installed. EPA Director Scott Pruitt's skepticism towards human contributions to climate change has led to a decreased emphasis towards advancing climate change policies. Several administrative advisers have stated that the social cost should be reduced to zero (currently at $36 per ton of carbon dioxide). A possible reduction or elimination of the social carbon cost would lead to the overhaul of dozens of climate regulations established in previous administrations.\n\nColorado\n\nIn November 2006, voters in Boulder, Colorado passed what is said to be the first municipal carbon tax. It is a tax on electricity consumption (utility bills) with deductions for using electricity from renewable sources (primarily Xcel's WindSource program). The goal is to reduce carbon emissions to those outlined in the Kyoto Protocol; specifically to reduce their emissions by 7% below 1990 levels by 2012. Tax revenues are collected by Xcel Energy and are directed to the city's Office of Environmental Affairs to fund programs to reduce community-wide greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nBoulder's Climate Action Plan (CAP) tax is expected to raise $1.6 million in 2010. The tax was increased to a maximum allowable rate by voters in 2009 to meet CAP goals. Currently the tax is set at $0.0049 /kWh for residential users (ave. $21 per year), $0.0009 /kWh for commercial (ave. $94 per year), and $0.0003 /kWh for industrial (ave. $9,600 per year). The revenues from the tax are expected to decrease over time as businesses and residents reduce their energy use and begin to use more solar and wind power. The tax was renewed by voters on November 6, 2012.\n\nAs of 2015, the Boulder carbon tax is estimated to reduce carbon output by over 100,000 tons per year, and allows the city to collect $1.8 million in revenue that is interjected back into the city. Those funds are infused back into the community by providing bike lanes, energy efficient solutions, rebates for business and homeowners to further invest in green energy, and community based programs to further still bring awareness to the movement The tax is Boulder's way of initiating a future global movement. Because of Boulder's progressiveness and willingness to adapt, this was a fantastic opportunity to trail-run this type of program. It leverages all forms of individual - residential, commercial, and industrial. This results in a low surcharge that has been generally well received. The average household pays just US$21 towards the tax each year, while the average business pays just $94 per year. The success of the program has provided a stable and efficient means of carbon tax implementation and enforcement that shows its long-term sustainability in all U.S. markets.\n\nCalifornia\n\nIn May 2008, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District, which covers nine counties in the San Francisco Bay Area, passed a carbon tax on businesses of 4.4 cents per ton of CO.\n\nIn 2006, the state of California, passed AB-32 (Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006), which requires California to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To implement AB-32, the California Air Resources Board proposed a carbon tax, but has yet to reach agreement with the Western States Petroleum Association which represents the refineries in the state. The WSPA holds that AB-32 only allows a carbon tax to cover administrative costs.\n\nMaryland\n\nIn May 2010, Montgomery County, Maryland passed the nation's first county-level carbon tax. The legislation required payments of $5 per ton of CO emitted from any stationary source emitting more than a million tons of carbon dioxide during a calendar year. There is only one source of emissions fitting the criteria laid out by the council, an 850 megawatt coal-fired power plant owned by Mirant Corporation. The tax was expected to raise between $10 million and $15 million for the county, which faced a nearly $1 billion budget gap. The law provided for half of revenue to go toward creating a low interest loan plan for county residents to invest in residential energy efficiency upgrades. The County's energy supplier buys its energy at auction, so Mirant would have to sell its energy at market value, which meant no discernible increase in energy costs would be felt by the county's residents. In June 2010, the Mirant Corporation sued the county to stop the tax. In June 2011 the Federal Court of Appeals ruled that the tax was a fee imposed \"for regulatory or punitive purposes\" rather than a tax, and therefore could be challenged in court. The County Council repealed the fee in July 2012.\n\nWashington\n\nIn 2016, a group of climate activists put an initiative for a revenue-neutral carbon tax on the November ballot in Washington State. If approved by voters, it would have imposed a tax on carbon dioxide emissions and used that revenue to decrease the state's sales tax, the business tax, and expand the state's version of the earned income tax credit for low-income workers.\n\nCooper (1998, 2001) has been a leading proponent of a harmonized carbon tax (a tax where the country setting the tax keeps all the revenues). Under his proposals, all participating nations would be subject to a tax at a common rate, thus achieving cost-effectiveness. A number of problems have been suggested with Cooper's proposals:\n\nFormer US Vice President Al Gore strongly backed a carbon tax in his book, \"Earth in the Balance\". In 2000, when Gore ran for president, one commentator labeled Gore's carbon tax proposal a \"central planning solution\" harking back to \"the New Deal politics of his father.\"\n\nGreg Mankiw, head of the Council of Economic Advisers under the George W. Bush administration, economic adviser to Mitt Romney for his 2012 presidential campaign and economics professor at Harvard University since 1985, has been advocating for increased carbon/oil taxation since at least 1999. In 2006, he founded the Pigou Club of economists advocating for Pigovian taxes, a carbon tax chiefly among them. In the club's manifesto, he writes that \"[h]igher gasoline taxes, perhaps as part of a broader carbon tax, would be the most direct and least invasive policy to address environmental concerns.\"\n\nIn 1979, economist Milton Friedman expressed support for the idea of a carbon tax in an interview on \"The Phil Donahue Show\", saying \"...the best way to [deal with pollution] is to impose a tax on the cost of the pollutants emitted by a car and make an incentive for car manufacturers and for consumers to keep down the amount of pollution.\"\n\nIn 2001, environmental scientist Lester Brown, founder of the Worldwatch Institute and founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute, outlined a detailed \"tax shifting\" structure which would not lead to an overall higher tax level: \"It means reducing income taxes and offsetting them with taxes on environmentally destructive activities such as carbon emissions, the generation of toxic waste, the use of virgin raw materials, the use of non-refillable beverage containers, mercury emissions, the generation of garbage, the use of pesticides, and the use of throwaway products... activities that should be discouraged by taxing.\"\" Brown subsequently added that such a tax shift would amount to an \"honest market,\" explaining, \"The key to restructuring the economy is the creation of an honest market, one that tells the ecological truth.\" In 2011 he estimated the cost of such a tax shift, including the effects of better technology, the use of renewables and \"updating the concept of national security.\"\n\nFormer US Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker suggested (February 6, 2007) that \"it would be wiser to impose a tax on oil, for example, than to wait for the market to drive up oil prices.\"\n\nNASA climatologist James E. Hansen has argued in support of a carbon tax.\n\nCommencing in North America, the nonprofit Citizens Climate Lobby has been advocating for carbon tax legislation (specifically a progressive fee and dividend model with revenue returned to citizens in the form of a check or rebate). The organization has about 165 chapters in the United States, Canada, and several other countries including Bangladesh and Sweden.\n\nFormer United States Congressional Representative Bob Inglis (R-South Carolina) heads the Energy and Enterprise Initiative at George Mason University which is making the conservative case for climate legislation through support for a carbon tax.\n\nA number of businesses and business leaders also support a carbon tax. These include:\n\nIn 2015, BG Group, BP, Eni, Royal Dutch Shell, Statoil and Total sent an open letter to the UNFCCC calling for the implementation of carbon pricing and eventually link it all up into a global system.\n\nMonica Prasad, a Northwestern University sociologist, wrote about Denmark's carbon tax in \"The New York Times\" in 2008. In her view, the Danish carbon tax served as an example of how to reduce emissions in the US. Prasad argued, however, that a critical component for Denmark's success in reducing carbon emissions from 1990–2005 was that the tax revenues from the carbon tax were dedicated to subsidies for firms to use for alternative, environmentally cleaner sources of energy.\n\nEconomist Laura D'Andrea Tyson wrote in June 2013: \"The beauty of a carbon tax is its market-based simplicity. Economists since Adam Smith have insisted that prices are by far the most efficient way to guide the decisions of producers and consumers. Carbon emissions have an \"unpriced\" societal cost in terms of their deleterious effects on the earth's climate. A tax on carbon would reflect these costs and send a powerful price signal that would discourage carbon emissions.\" She listed several prominent economists and political figures that have supported carbon taxes.\n\nCarbon Tax Now is an online petition for citizens from around the globe to show support for implementing a carbon tax in their country of citizenship.\n\nIn 2016 in Washington state, the Sierra Club, the Washington Environmental Council, Climate Solutions, and the Alliance for Jobs and Clean Energy opposed a proposed tax of $25 per tonne on fossil fuels arguing that the enactment would undermine state finances.\n\nIn 2018, they instead supported a carbon tax of $15 per tonne of carbon in that state, along with many other environmental groups, in part because the proceeds would fund projects \nthat would steer the state away from fossil fuels.\n\nAn alternative government policy to a carbon tax is a cap on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Emission levels of GHGs are capped and permits to pollute are freely allocated (called \"grandfathering\") or auctioned to polluters. Auctioning permits has significant economic advantages over grandfathering.\nIn particular, auctioning raises revenues that can be used to reduce distortionary taxes and improve overall efficiency.\nA market may be allowed for these emission permits so that polluters can trade some or all of their permits with others (cap-and-trade). A hybrid instrument of a cap and carbon tax can be made by creating a price-floor and price-ceiling for emission permits. A carbon tax can also be implemented concurrently with a cap.\n\nUnlike a cap system with grandfathered permits, a carbon tax raises revenues. If the revenues are used to reduce other distortionary taxes, this can improve the efficiency of the tax. On the other hand, a cap with grandfathered permits can have an efficiency advantage of being applied to all industries. This provides an equal incentive at the margin for all polluters to reduce their emissions. This is an advantage over a tax that exempts or has reduced rates for certain sectors.\n\nBoth carbon taxes and permit systems (Cap and Trade) aim to reduce the total quantity of carbon emissions by creating a price for emitting pollution, but they achieve this goal in distinctly separate ways. While carbon taxes dictate the price that will be paid for each unit of pollution, permit systems set a specific quantity of that all applicable entities will be held to and divides this total amount into tradable permits. In the absence of uncertainty these two systems will achieve the same effect and result in the efficient market quantity of and price charged per unit of emitted.\nIn the case of environmental uncertainty, that is when the environmental damages of each unit of cannot be accurately calculated, a permit system may be more advantageous in order to limit total quantity and thus potential damages. In the case of uncertainty regarding the costs of abatement for firms, a tax is preferable. The abatement uncertainty issue was illustrated in 2005 by the first phase of the European Union Emissions Trading System (cap and trade). In this program, the initial allocation of permits was too great as the EU did not accurately assess the reduction capabilities of the various firms it regulated, and thus firms simply reduced their emissions to their allotted quantity without the purchase of any additional permits. This drove the permit prices to nearly zero two years after the program began, crashing the system and commanding reform and permit allocation refinement that would eventually manifest itself in the current European Union Emissions Trading System (Phase 3)\n\nBoth cap-and-trade and carbon taxes give polluters a financial incentive to reduce their GHG emissions. Carbon taxes provide certainty regarding emission prices, while a cap provides certainty regarding emissions quantity. In a literature assessment, Fisher \"et al.\". (1996:430) concluded that the choice between an international quota (cap) system, or an international carbon tax, remained ambiguous.\nLu \"et al\". (2012) compared a carbon tax, an emission trading, and command-and-control regulation at the industrial level. Their abstract concludes that market-based mechanisms would perform better than emission standards in achieving emission targets without affecting industrial production.\n\n\nAccording to the Carbon Trust (2009), a carbon tax suffers from combining a set price for carbon along with a transfer of revenue from industry to government. This, it is argued, guarantees that the tax will not be set at the appropriate level, but will instead be determined by the politics of large-scale revenue transfers. With a cap, however, the revenues from emission allowances can be separately negotiated with industry.\n\nAnother issue with taxes is whether the emissions reductions they bring about actually exist – that is, the \"additionality\" of emissions reductions attributable solely to the taxes (Carbon Trust, 2009). Additionality usually requires a comparison of observed emission reductions against an estimate of the emission reductions that would have taken place without the presence of the tax (the emissions \"baseline\"). The additionality of a carbon tax, in this sense, is difficult to establish because other policies usually will also have impacts on levels of emissions, e.g., subsidies and regulations. (As a case in point, greenhouse gas emissions from British Columbia had fallen 4.5% between 2007 and 2010 following imposition of its carbon tax. However, it is estimated by the government that most of this decrease is, in fact, attributable to an economic recession.) There are about US$550 billion in fossil fuel subsidies annually worldwide.\n\nIn most instances, firms pass the costs of a carbon price onto consumers. Studies typically find that poor consumers spend a greater proportion of their income on energy-intensive goods and fuel, and cost increases in energy tend to impact the poor worse than the rich.\nTherefore, if the revenue from a carbon tax is retained by the government, a price on carbon is expected to be regressive, similar to any policy that increases the cost of fuels and energy.\n\nA study by Resources for the Future (2014) examined the regressive nature of a carbon tax evaluating three different options for the use of a revenue neutral carbon tax. The study concluded that distributing the fee back to the public as a lump sum payment eliminates the regressive nature of the carbon tax, where people in the lower 60% of income brackets will, on average, perceive a positive impact on their household welfare.\n\nStudies by Metcalf \"et al.\" (2008) and Metcalf (2009) consider the possible distributional impacts of carbon taxes in the United States.\nThe 2008 study considers three recent tax bills introduced to the US Congress. The taxes themselves are highly regressive, but when revenues from the tax are returned lump-sum, the taxes become progressive. The 2009 study looks at a carbon tax combined with a reduction in payroll taxes. It is found that this combination can be distributionally neutral. With an adjustment in Social Security payments for the lowest-income households, the carbon tax policy can be made progressive.\n\nA study by Ekins and Dresner (2004) considers the distributional impact in the UK of introducing a carbon tax and increasing fuel duty.\nIt is found that a carbon tax can be made progressive, but that the tax would make those currently worst affected by fuel poverty more badly off. Of the policy options looked at for transport, the most effective in compensating low-income motorists is found to be an increase in fuel duties and the abolishment of vehicle excise duty.\n\nBashmakov \"et al.\" (2001) refer to emissions taxes. Carbon taxes are not identical to emissions taxes, but they can be designed to be a close approximation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28501914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28501914", "title": "Christwire", "text": "Christwire\n\nChristwire is a satirical website that publishes blog-style articles intended to ridicule excesses of American Christian conservatives. Recurring topics include homosexuality, atheism, Hollywood, and other purported threats to American culture.\n\nLike similar satirical websites, Christwire's stories have sometimes been erroneously taken at face value.\n\nDue to the wide public attention at the name Christwire, the site also runs topekasnews.com.\n\nOne satirical news article by \"Haywood Bynum III\" pronounced that \"Edible Marijuana Candies Kill 9 in Colorado, 12 at Coachella.\" The Drug Abuse Resistance Education anti-drug organization copied the article onto their website without fact checking the satirical article.\n\n"}
{"id": "11555581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11555581", "title": "Coat of arms of Munich", "text": "Coat of arms of Munich\n\nThe coat of arms of Munich \"(Münchner Wappen)\" depicts a young monk dressed in black holding a red book. It has existed in a similar form since the 13th century, though at certain points in its history it has not depicted the central figure of the monk at all. As the German name for Munich, München, means \"of Monks\", the monk in this case is a self-explanatory symbol (canting arms) who represents the city of Munich. \n\nAppearing on a document of May 28, 1239, the oldest seal of Munich has a picture of a monk wearing an open hood. While all seal impressions show the monk with the book in one hand and three outstretched fingers in the other, the monk has varied slightly, appearing in profile, then later full-faced and bare-headed. By the 19th century the figure was portrayed as youthful and became known as the Münchner Kindl or \"Munich Child\". The coat of arms in its current form was created in 1957 and is still an important symbol of the Bavarian state capital.\n\nAs the German name for Munich, i.e. München, means \"of Monks\", the monk in this case is a self-explanatory symbol who represents the city of Munich. The figure is portrayed wearing a golden trimmed black cowl with a black hood and red shoes. The right hand is raised and the left carries a red book.\n\nThe open right hand of the monk is interpreted as an oath-making gesture, or a blessing gesture in Christian tradition. The red book in the left hand refers to the oath book of the city (in accordance with the gesture of the right hand), or the municipal law book which is bounded in red and has been handed down since 1365. Another interpretation is that it is a gospel book.\n\nWhen the Munich town administration developed a constitution of its council, a seal was necessary for the purposes of asserting the authenticity of town-council documents. Appearing on a document of May 28, 1239, the oldest seal of Munich has a picture of a monk wearing an open hood. While all seal impressions show the monk with the book in one hand and three outstretched fingers in the other, the monk has varied slightly, appearing in profile, then later full-faced and bare-headed. The monk as a sole heraldic figure can be found on a seal dating from the year 1304, and on flags of the city since the middle of the 14th century. Colourful representations of the town's coat of arms stem from the 15th century.\n\nIn the course of the few centuries up until the current version of 1957, the coat of arms has undergone some distinctly visible changes. While some 15th-century portrayals already show a child figure instead of the monk, the monk in representations onwards began to lose its serious disposition, with curly hair and a more youthful-looking face. By the 18th century and especially the 19th century, the monk had been minimised into the Münchner Kindl, Bavarian for \"Munich Child\", a reference to the figure first documented in 1727, although it is not clear when it appeared on the coat of arms for the first time or who coined the term. The transformation was brought about by artists such as sculptors and painters as well as copper and seal engravers, as opposed to a legal order.\n\nIn the second half of the nineteenth century, local artists also supplemented the figure with items such as radishes, pretzels, laurel wreaths and foaming beer steins. The symbol diversely appears in numerous places such as on manhole covers, beer steins and the top of the tower of the town hall. While the symbol as a man through being a monk was previously clear, its gender has become ambiguous since being designated the Kindl. One interpretation is that it is simply genderless, however in the 1920s a female inclination became apparent, and portrayals in person are to this day by young women.\n\nThe Munich coat of arms is verifiable from seals in 1239 and 1268. These seals show a monk in a gate, above which is in eagle, referring to the Bishop of Freising. The city belonged to him and this was probably derived from his coat of arms. From 1313, the city was in possession of the Wittelsbach Dukes and the eagle was replaced with a lion, a symbol of the old Bavarian and Palatine Wittelsbachs since the Fiefdom of Duke Ludwig in 1214.\n\nIn 1808, King Maximilian I Joseph granted the city a historicist city emblem depicting a classical portal, atop which the King's crown lies. A golden lion sits in the gate's threshold with a sword in one paw and a shield with the letter \"M\" in the other. As an enlightened monarch, Max I. Joseph wanted the city's symbol to show its culture and at the same time dispel the stereotype of the \"Mönchsbarbarei\", or the barbarianism of the monks. However, the township decided against the complete elimination of the historical reference to the monk and thus in 1818 the M was replaced with the previous monk's head design.\n\nIn 1834, King Ludwig I granted the city its old coat of arms again in the form of large and small crests. These embodied the small crest seal of 1304 and the large one of 1323. The 1835 coat of arms had a blue background, though this was later corrected to argent under Ludwig II in 1865. The background was rarely changed. One example of its occurrence, however, was when or was used in the 16th century instead.\nFrom 1936 to 1945, the lion was once again replaced by an eagle, only this time the one of the Nazi party, the \"Reichsadler\". Deemed the \"Hauptstadt der Bewegung\" (Capital of the Movement), Munich was a significant place in terms of the Nazi ideology. The city was home to the NSDAP headquarters, the Beer Hall Putsch and also saw the establishment of Dachau, the first Nazi concentration camp. Post-war designs were not pursued until 1949.\nBoth a small and large coat of arms existed from 1949 until 1957 based on representations of them prior to 1936. In 1957 both the large and small city coat of arms were newly arranged by the designer Eduard Ege. At the same time, the city council set the resolution on the December 17, 1957 that the large one was no longer for official use but only for particular representative purposes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6768922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6768922", "title": "Destruction in Art Symposium", "text": "Destruction in Art Symposium\n\nThe Destruction in Art Symposium (DIAS) was a gathering of a diverse group of international artists, poets, and scientists to London, from 9–11 September 1966. Included in this number were representatives of the counter-cultural underground who were there to speak on the theme of destruction in art.\n\nThe Honorary Committee, led by Gustav Metzger, attracted the attention of both the international media and international art community to the symposium.\n\nThe symposium was held at the Africa Centre in Covent Garden, London.\n\nA DIAS press release claimed: \nThroughout September, Happenings took place in venues all over London, including Conway Hall.\n\nJohn Latham constructed three large \"Skoob Towers\" out of books, which they called \"The laws of England\", and set fire to them outside of the British Museum.\n\n\nThe following artists were involved in DIAS: \n\nThe following artists are said to have participated in DIAS \"in absentia\":\n\nPhotographers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33513826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33513826", "title": "Digital performance", "text": "Digital performance\n\nDigital Performance is a very wide category filled with a range of productions, it is a generic performance but with an extra element of incorporating and integrating computer technologies and techniques into the production. You can incorporate multimedia into any type of performance whether it is live on a theatre stage or in the street. Anything as small as video recordings or a visual image classes the production as multimedia and therefore a digital performance. When the key role in a performance is the computer technologies rather than it being an additional role is when it is classed as a digital performance. This can be as little as projections on a screen in front of a live audience to creating and devising a performance in an online environment to using animation and sensing software’s.\n\nIf we were to look at the history of performance itself we would be able to find traces of digital performance from centuries ago, where it may be an old type of performance it is made new everyday by the increase in software and techniques and even by the uniqueness of performers' works, meanings and experiments. It is a continuing job to try and see how the acceptance of technology can increase the effects and spectacles of performances and visual arts. Performances are normally reliant on the audience and obviously to receive a good reception from the audience so with the ongoing integration of multimedia within productions surprises the audience and keeps them on edge. It also deals with the emotional and sensorial impact of the audiences. The social impact it has after the performance is out in the world and what meanings have come of the performance from different cliques of people.\n\nThe Digital Performance Archive stores a lot of physical and catalogued archives from the 20th century, as they carried out a research project, which involved the increase and creative use of computer technology, and techniques within live theatre and dance productions to even cyberspace interactive dramas and webcasts. Looking at a broad range of diverse productions would have enhanced their research project as they saw how each type of performance was affected and even how new types of performance came about due to the involvement of computer technologies and techniques and all other multimedia sources. Happenings also from the 20th century included new and emerging forms of drama and genres in performance; this occurred due to the active and escalating role of computer technology within all types of performances and productions. It became a significant and very important role within the society of live theatre. Not only did it start to play a key role within theatre it also became a key role within our whole society, with businesses and education involving and using computers more and more as a convenience. As our society became more reliant on computers in everyday life it is exciting to then see how artists and performers use this everyday convenience to create new productions.\n\nCD-ROMs, video games and countless installations exaggerated and performed by users, upped the level of interactive potential of computers. With computers becoming more and more accessible and popular as well as advanced with time so are the performances that contain them.\n\nFrom the first digital performance to present day trends have been set and this has been helped by the upgrades that surround computers. Artists have followed each other’s works and therefore set trends of their own whilst the technology has set its own trends through upgrades and new software’s coming out which appeal to artists in the field. Another trend that is apparent is theoretical trends to do with all digital productions. Online environments are a strong base for theoretical trends as the frameworks are similar and sometimes the same.\n\nThe largest base for theatre in the world is the World Wide Web; the Internet is seen as a satisfying place for relaxation and offers everyone who uses the Internet their ‘fifteen megabytes of fame.' Every single person who uses online networking sites, blogs, chat rooms, MOOs and IRC is creating their own performance with the use of e-friendships. Therefore it is not just the artists who deliberately devise theatrical events via the use of computer techniques and technologies.\n\nThe whole catalogue of Digital Performance is so diverse and a wide spread that it creates new and different visual and stylistic aspects. Computers have so many platforms available to create performances on that each production allows the artist/s or companies to gain extraordinary and unique experiences, new genres and experience new existences and beings via virtual realities.\n\nThe relationship formed between technology and art is a wonderful one. Two completely different areas joined together to create something new. They blend so well together and complement one another perfectly to become a strand under digital performance. ‘Performance is undertaking a shift in the conception of technology’. As the educational curriculum also upgrades with the latest technologies, school/college/university students are becoming more aware of the techniques they can include in performances and they want to involve the digital side as it is seen as more modern nowadays and appeals to a wide audience.\n\nPerformers and devisors of digital performance productions have to approach the aspects of technology in diverse ways to be able to reach different meanings, content, drama, the impact of visuals and the audience-performer relationship. The computer is seen as the middle man, who fixes lasting problems rather than creating original and new performance processes and hype, in digital performance.\n\nThe term Digital Performance can usually be defined to consist of all types of performance in which computer technologies have taken on the main role rather than an auxiliary one in the content, techniques, aesthetics or the delivery forms. Digital performance will usually explore the representations of the subliminal, dreams, and fantasy worlds.\n\nOver the past decade or so we have witnessed a very vast and incredible development within every aspect of the technological world. And as a result of this, there has been a large increase in the experimentation with computer technologies being integrated within the performing arts; and with the new technological creations and the developments of existing digital technologies they are also beginning to create a greater, more significant impact on the way in which different art forms are being practiced. Digital media now has a new and much more dramatic role to play in live theatre, dance and performance; and while digital media performances are now beginning to proliferate there are now many new forms of interactive performance genres that have emerged. These new genres are most commonly in the style of audience participatory installation pieces that can take place either on the internet or can be played on a CD – ROM. “Computers are arenas for social experience and dramatic interaction, a type of media more like public theatre, and their output is used for qualitative interaction, dialogue and conversation.” The computer is vastly becoming a significant tool and agent of performative action and creation. Computer technologies can be contextualised as being of a social, cultural and artistic change. Computers do now permit for the artistic modes of expression and for the new generic forms of networking and interactive performance. Theatre itself has always been right at the cutting edge of technology and it has been quick on the mark to be able to recognise, and to take full advantage of the dramatic and aesthetic potentials that these new and existing technologies have to offer. Theatre, dance and performance art have always been known to be a form of multimedia; and right at the very core of the theatre through all the manifestations right to the contemporary experimentation, as well as incorporating all of the visual elements into a production; at the foreground to any piece there is the human voice and the spoken text.\n\nLocating the roots of digital performance practices can be traced back for many decades or even centuries. There are three main periods that can be highlighted in the history of multi - media performance; Futurism during the 1910s, mixed media performance during the 1960s and experimentation with a performance and the computer during the 1990s. Both during the eras of Futurism and the experimentation with computer incorporated within performance, they are both greatly inspired by the development of new and existing technology. Researching back, digital performance practices have experimented with numerous of the different avant – garde movements which can date right back from the early twentieth century, some of these movements can include the likes of Bauhaus, Dada, Surrealism and many more. It could be said that digital performance can be linked to the aesthetics, philosophies and practices of the futurist movement. One of the main links that has been found which can connect futurism to digital performance was with the use of the ‘machine’ which was used in the set of Robert Lepage’s Zulu Time (1999). Although, it can be said that the avant – garde movement Futurism does have a more philosophical basis for contemporary digital performance, more so than any of the other avant – garde movements such as the likes of Bauhaus, Dada and Surrealism which are mainly used to provide inspiration for a large part of the content and styles for the artistic expression. Looking back at the early twentieth century avant – garde, there were many works that would use pre – digital technologies.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of when theatre and film were being integrated together in a performance, with the use of digital technology was to try and challenge the distinction between what is ‘liveness’ as in the live performer on the stage and the media imagery, it is about the relationship between the virtual and the actual performance being the dialogical interactivity. With the increased usage of digital media in a performance, not all performances are necessarily live, without the body’s physical presence it could be argued whether this is this still live theatre or just a set of media images and footage. Theatre pieces which have integrated digital media and computer generated projections built into performances have a long historical lineage that stretches back to over a hundred years ago to an experiment that was conducted by Loie Fuller. Fuller was the first modern dance choreographer to try out and to use new technology within her performance work. In 1911, Fuller, a dancer, conducted an experiment where she used film footage and projected it onto diaphanous robes. In the performance, as Fuller danced the robes in which she was wearing became a sort of ‘screen’ where multi – coloured lights were projected upon it. This was one of the first pieces of theatre where film footage was integrated into becoming a part of a live theatre performance.\n\nFrom the early 1960s, computer generated imagery had then began to emerge as a distinctive art form, and in John Whitney’s film Catalog (1961) viewers witnessed one of films’ first ever uses of computer transformations. Although digital arts had been developing since the 1960s, in the 1990s computer technologies had become much more accessible to artists which then led to a large increase in the digital performance activity. It was during this time that computer hardware was built to become much more “user – friendly” and we then witnessed the invention of the digital camera and the home PC’s (Personal Computer) and the establishment of the World Wide Web. It was during this period of time which would then go on to be known as being the ‘Digital Revolution’. During the period of the ‘Digital Revolution’ there was a great influence on the aesthetics, creation and culture of the performance arts; this had a significant effect on the process for film and television production to the creative writing and the visual and performance arts.\n\nFrom 1970 there was a period of time of when theatrical experimentation elevated the visual over the verbal; there was a proliferation in the use of media projections in theatre, dance and performance art, using both screens and video monitors. With the ease of using these video technologies more and more artists began to play around with the possibilities of integrating visual media within their live performance work. The use of media technology including the likes of film, video and sound equipment became some of the main characteristics for the experimental theatre, and some of the most noted performance artists of this time were creating work by incorporating video and film footage into their theatre productions. By the 1990s multimedia and computer technologies had widely become a part of everyday life. In live multimedia theatre: the projection screens or video monitor frame additional space, in two dimensions. Media screens are able to provide a uniquely flexible space, unlike the fixed point of view in which a traditional theatre provides to the members of the audience. Moving towards the end of the twentieth century digital computer technologies have become increasingly more ubiquitous.\n\nAs digital media has now become more and more popular over the years, the perception of digital images and videos now are now lacking in legitimacy as these technologies have gradually intensified over the past few years. Digital performance is an expansion of a constantly progressing history of which embracing the adaptation of these new and already existing technologies, in which to amplify a performance and the visual art aesthetic effect, and to create the sense of a spectacle as well as capturing the emotional and the sensorial impact.\n\nVideo conferencing is also a part of digital performance, some theatre companies (such as ‘The Gertrude Stein Repertory Theatre’ and ‘Kunstwerk-Blend’) introduced this into their productions to bring different performers from different locations together live on stage to create a lively new brand of digital performance. The Internet is used as a base for these productions with text-based online environments such as MUDs and MOOs as well as the use of webcams and webcasts. They all created new forms to come under the live and interactive performance area. With the ongoing increase of internet users more and more people are made accessible to these software’s therefore more and more artists are experimenting and devising performances using computer technologies which them branches out and raises the number of digital performances and productions.\n\nAnother case of what is under the title of digital performance is dance productions, using software and computer techniques such as advanced animation and motion capturing. You can project images of your virtual dancers made on to the stage. As you are using computer techniques and software to project on to a stage, which has a live audience the performance/production, then becomes digital due to the elements involved. Software that is highly involved with digital performance is custom-made motion sensing; this software allows you to control images, avatars, sounds and lighting live on stage. This is important for today’s artists and audiences, as audiences are looking for something new and memorable. Artists are equally looking to create something new that will grab audiences, this software allows this to happen as you can experiment and change as much as you like live.\n\nCommunication through the Internet has been classed as a type of digital performance as it has been theorized as a type of virtual performance of the self. As this is so, people have already stated digital performance as being everywhere, which has led to digital performance being modernized itself. It has been noted as incorporating the elements of electronics in everyday life through the communicational and production elements.\n\nSome strands of performing have always been seen as multimedia forms such as theatre, dance and performance art. Dance involves an intimate relationship with music for a start. All three of the above are involved with visual aspects such as sets, props, lighting and costume which are all a part of the production to enhance the body/bodies in a space. Using such aspects makes the performance become multimedia and that is becoming more advanced with the new techniques that computers are upgrading to therefore making digital performance a strong and popular area to study.\n"}
{"id": "14624943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14624943", "title": "Distributed Proofreaders Canada", "text": "Distributed Proofreaders Canada\n\nDistributed Proofreaders Canada (DP Canada) is a volunteer organization that converts books into digital format and releases them as public domain books in formats readable by electronic devices. It was launched in December 2007 and has published about 4,200 books. Books that are released are stored on a book archive called \"Faded Page\". While its focus is on Canadian publications and preserving Canadiana, it also includes books from other countries as well. It is modelled after Distributed Proofreaders, and performs the same function as similar projects in other parts of the world such as Project Gutenberg in the United States and Project Gutenberg Australia.\n\nDistributed Proofreaders Canada was launched in December 2007 by David Jones and Michael Shepard. Although it was established by members of the original Distributed Proofreaders site, it is a separate entity. It is a volunteer based non-profit organization. All the administrative and management costs are borne by its members. The software used by DP Canada was originally downloaded from SourceForge but has been substantially modified since then.\n\nIn addition to preserving Canadiana, DP Canada is notable because it is one of the first major efforts to take advantage of Canada's copyright laws which allows more works to be preserved. Unlike copyright law in other countries, Canada has a \"life plus 50\" copyright term. Works by authors who died more than fifty years ago may be made publicly available in Canada. Other countries have differing copyright laws. Although files available through DP Canada are publicly available in other countries, the onus is on the reader to ensure that they only download material that is not in copyright in their country of residence.\n\nNotable Canadian authors whose books have been published include Stephen Leacock, L. M. Montgomery, E. T. Seton and Mazo de la Roche. Authors whose works have been released in Canada but not other parts of the world include A. A. Milne, C. S. Lewis, Winston Churchill, E. E. Smith and Amy Carmichael.\n\nEligible books are chosen by members for publication based on personal interest and access. Books are scanned electronically and each page is uploaded to the proofreading website. A project is created for the book and is made available to the proofreading members. Each book is proofread in three stages called 'P1', 'P2' and 'P3'. During the first stage, errors in scanning and other minor errors are corrected. Once all pages in the book have been edited the book pages are promoted to the next stage, P2. The proofreading is repeated and again in stage P3 to ensure no errors make it to the final publication.\n\nOnce stage P3 is finished the book moves to a set of two formatting stages called 'F1', and 'F2'. In these stages the book text is changed into a format that allows it to be presented to the reader in a style that resembles the original book as closely as possible. For example, text originally appearing in Italic type is placed within formatting tags <nowiki>this text is in italics</nowiki>. When formatted the text appears correctly as \"this text is in italics\". \n\nWhen the formatting stages are complete, a post-processing stage brings all the files together to publish the books in five electronic formats. These include ePub, mobi, HTML, PDF and plain text. The HTML version is also made available as a Zip file. \n\nBefore the books are added to the Faded Page book archive, the books are placed in a final round called 'Smooth Reading'. While in this phase, members of DP Canada are encouraged to download the books and read them. While the books are in this phase, comments about the book for possible improvements can be sent to the post processor. Once past the Smooth Reading process, the publication is posted on Faded Page.\n\nThe books that are published by DP Canada in the public domain are made available through the Faded Page book archive. Some of the publications released are also posted to the Project Gutenberg Canada (PG Canada) website. PG Canada is a book archive that does not perform proofreading tasks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9856873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9856873", "title": "Fiol's Octoechos", "text": "Fiol's Octoechos\n\nFiol's Octoechos is an incunabulum octoechos, the first printed book in the Cyrillic script. It was printed by Schweipolt Fiol, a German native of Franconia, in 1491 in Cracow.\n\nThe only complete copy, of seven remaining, of \"Oktoikh\" is kept by the Russian State Library in Moscow. In the past this copy belonged to Johann Hess (1490–1547), a Wroclaw (Breslau) bibliophile and reformer.\n\n"}
{"id": "14732174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14732174", "title": "Forensic arts", "text": "Forensic arts\n\nForensic art is any art used in law enforcement or legal proceedings. Forensic art is used to assist law enforcement with the visual aspects of a case, often using witness descriptions and video footage.\n\nIt is a highly specialised field that covers a wide range of artistic skills, such as composite drawing, crime scene sketching, image modification and identification, courtroom drawings, demonstrative evidence, and postmortem and facial approximation aids. It is rare for a forensic artist to specialise in more than one of these skills. The following is a breakdown of different skills and what they involve:\nMany forensic artists do the job as a collateral duty to their \"regular\" job in law enforcement, such as police officer, crime scene tech, etc. Such forensic artists perform their work while on a fixed salary and are not additionally compensated for artistic duties. There are few full-time forensic artist jobs available. Most full-time artists work in large cities, or in state or federal agencies. \"Freelancing\" in forensic art is a difficult career path, as ties to law enforcement are a necessary part of the job, and agencies have limited budgets to pay outside contractors.\n\nThe skill of facial approximation is closely associated and related to forensic anthropology in that an artist specializes in the reconstruction of the remains of a human body. Generally this discipline focuses on the human face for identification purposes. The forensic artist can create a facial approximation in a number of ways to include 2D (drawings), 3D (sculptures) and other methods using new computer technology. Forensic artists generally can add greater character and make their subjects come back to \"life\".\n\n\nWhen creating a face model, the forensic artist looks at whether the person is masculine or feminine, as well as their skin tone, age, wrinkles, freckles, the shadow of the beard, and attractiveness. There are three segments that they examine: \n\nTo qualify for a professional certification for forensic arts - such as the Forensic Art Certification, which is provided through the International Association for Identification - applicants can focus on one or more of the three available categories of professional designation: composite imaging, facial reconstruction, and image enhancement/age progression, and must: \n\n"}
{"id": "29298842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29298842", "title": "General welfare clause", "text": "General welfare clause\n\nA general welfare clause is a section that appeared in many constitutions, as well as in some charters and statutes, which provides that the governing body empowered by the document may enact laws to promote the general welfare of the people, sometimes worded as the public welfare. In some countries, this has been used as a basis for legislation promoting the health, safety, morals, and well-being of the people governed thereunder. \n\nThe Constitution of Argentina provides in its Preamble that one of its purposes is to \"promote the general welfare\". A comparative, international analysis of the meaning of this phrase in the Argentine constitution is provided by an 1897 report from the Supreme Court of Argentina:\n\nThe Constitution of the Philippines contains five references to the general welfare: \"The maintenance of peace and order, the protection of life, liberty, and property, and promotion of the general welfare are essential for the enjoyment by all the people of the blessings of democracy. . . . Within its territorial jurisdiction and subject to the provisions of this Constitution and national laws, the organic act of autonomous regions shall provide for legislative powers over . . . Such other matters as may be authorized by law for the promotion of the general welfare of the people of the region. . . . . The President may enter into agreements with foreign-owned corporations involving either technical or financial assistance for large-scale exploration, development, and utilization of minerals, petroleum, and other mineral oils according to the general terms and conditions provided by law, based on real contributions to the economic growth and general welfare of the country. . . . . The State shall pursue a trade policy that serves the general welfare and utilizes all forms and arrangements of exchange on the basis of equality and reciprocity. . . . . The advertising industry is impressed with public interest, and shall be regulated by law for the protection of consumers and the promotion of the general welfare. . . . .\"\n\nThe United States Constitution contains two references to \"the General Welfare\", one occurring in the Preamble and the other in the Taxing and Spending Clause. The U.S. Supreme Court has held the mention of the clause in the Preamble to the U.S. Constitution \"has never been regarded as the source of any substantive power conferred on the Government of the United States or on any of its Departments.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court held the understanding of the General Welfare Clause contained in the Taxing and Spending Clause adheres to the construction given it by Associate Justice Joseph Story in his 1833 \"Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States\". Justice Story concluded that the General Welfare Clause is not a grant of general legislative power, but a qualification on the taxing power which includes within it a federal power to spend federal revenues on matters of general interest to the federal government. The Court described Justice Story's view as the \"Hamiltonian position\", as Alexander Hamilton had elaborated his view of the taxing and spending powers in his 1791 \"Report on Manufactures\". Story, however, attributes the position's initial appearance to Thomas Jefferson, in his \"Opinion on the Bank of the United States\".\n\nThese clauses in the U.S. Constitution are an atypical use of a general welfare clause, and are not considered grants of a general legislative power to the federal government.\n\nIn one letter, Thomas Jefferson asserted that “[T]he laying of taxes is the power, and the general welfare the purpose for which the power is to be exercised. They [Congress] are not to lay taxes \"ad libitum\" for any purpose they please; but only to pay the debts or provide for the welfare of the Union. In like manner, they are not to do anything they please to provide for the general welfare, but only to lay taxes for that purpose.”\n\nIn 1824 Chief Justice John Marshall described in an obiter dictum a further view on the limits on the General Welfare Clause in \"Gibbons v. Ogden\": \"Congress is authorized to lay and collect taxes, &c. to pay the debts and provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States. ... Congress is not empowered to tax for those purposes which are within the exclusive province of the States.\"\n\nThe historical controversy over the U.S. General Welfare Clause arises from two distinct disagreements. The first concerns whether the General Welfare Clause grants an independent spending power or is a restriction upon the taxing power. The second disagreement pertains to what exactly is meant by the phrase \"general welfare.\"\n\nThe two primary authors of \"The Federalist\" essays set forth two separate, conflicting interpretations:\n\nMadison also advocated for the ratification of the Constitution at the Virginia ratifying convention with this \"narrow\" construction of the clause, asserting that spending must be at least tangentially tied to one of the other specifically enumerated powers, such as regulating interstate or foreign commerce, or providing for the military, as the General Welfare Clause is not a specific grant of power, but a statement of purpose qualifying the power to tax.\n\nThis debate surfaced in Congress in 1790, when Madison strongly criticized Hamilton's Report on Manufacturing and industry on the grounds that Hamilton was construing his broad interpretation of the clause as a legal basis for his extensive economic programs.\n\nWhile Hamilton's view prevailed during the administrations of Presidents Washington and Adams, historians argue that his view of the General Welfare Clause was repudiated in the election of 1800, and helped establish the primacy of the Democratic-Republican Party for the subsequent 24 years.\n\nPrior to 1936, the United States Supreme Court had imposed a narrow interpretation on the Clause, as demonstrated by the holding in \"Bailey v. Drexel Furniture Co.,\" in which a tax on child labor was an impermissible attempt to regulate commerce beyond that Court's equally narrow interpretation of the Commerce Clause. This narrow view was later overturned in \"United States v. Butler.\" There, the Court agreed with Associate Justice Joseph Story's construction in Story's 1833 \"Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States\". Story had concluded that the General Welfare Clause was not a general grant of legislative power, but also dismissed Madison's narrow construction requiring its use be dependent upon the other enumerated powers. Consequently, the Supreme Court held the power to tax and spend is an independent power and that the General Welfare Clause gives Congress power it might not derive anywhere else. However, the Court did limit the power to spending for matters affecting only the national welfare.\n\nShortly after \"Butler\", in \"Helvering v. Davis\", the Supreme Court interpreted the clause even more expansively, disavowing almost entirely any role for judicial review of Congressional spending policies, thereby conferring upon Congress a plenary power to impose taxes and to spend money for the general welfare subject almost entirely to Congress's own discretion. Even more recently, in \"South Dakota v. Dole\" the Court held Congress possessed power to indirectly influence the states into adopting national standards by withholding, to a limited extent, federal funds. To date, the Hamiltonian view of the General Welfare Clause predominates in case law.\n\nThe state of Alabama has had six constitutions. The Preamble of the 1865 Alabama Constitution notes one purpose of the document to be to \"promote the general welfare,\" but this language is omitted from the 1901 Alabama Constitution.\n\nArticle VII of the Constitution of Alaska, titled \"Health, Education, and Welfare\", directs the legislature to \"provide for the promotion and protection of public health\" and \"provide for public welfare\".\n\nArticle IV of the Constitution of Massachusetts provides authority for the state to make laws \"as they shall judge to be for the good and welfare of this commonwealth.\" The actual phrase \"general welfare\" appears only in , which permits the imposition of capital punishment \"the purpose of protecting the general welfare of the citizens\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2301427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2301427", "title": "Generative semantics", "text": "Generative semantics\n\nGenerative semantics is the name of a research program within linguistics, initiated by the work of various early students of Noam Chomsky: John R. Ross, Paul Postal, and later James McCawley. George Lakoff and Pieter Seuren were also instrumental in developing and advocating the theory.\n\nThe approach developed out of transformational generative grammar in the mid-1960s, but stood largely apart from, and in opposition to, work by Noam Chomsky and his later students. This move led to a more abstract framework and lately to the abandonment of the notion of the CFG formal grammar induced deep structure.\n\nA number of ideas from later work in generative semantics have been incorporated into cognitive linguistics, head-driven phrase structure grammar (HPSG), construction grammar, and into mainstream Chomskyan linguistics.\n\nThe controversy surrounding generative semantics stemmed in part from the competition between two fundamentally different approaches to semantics within transformational generative syntax. The first semantic theories designed to be compatible with transformational syntax were \"interpretive\". Syntactic rules enumerated a set of well-formed sentences paired with syntactic structures, each of which was assigned an \"interpretation\" by the rules of a separate semantic theory. This left syntax relatively (though by no means entirely) \"autonomous\" with respect to semantics, and was the approach preferred by Chomsky.\n\nIn contrast, generative semanticists argued that interpretations were generated directly by the grammar as deep structures, and were subsequently transformed into recognizable sentences by transformations. This approach necessitated more complex underlying structures than those proposed by Chomsky, and more complex transformations as a consequence. Despite this additional complexity, the approach was appealing in several respects. First, it offered a powerful mechanism for explaining synonymity. In his initial work in generative syntax, Chomsky motivated transformations using active/passive pairs such as \"I hit John\" and \"John was hit by me\", which despite their identical meanings have quite different surface forms. Generative semanticists wanted to account for \"all\" cases of synonymity in a similar fashion—an impressively ambitious goal before the advent of more sophisticated interpretive theories in the 1970s. Second, the theory had a pleasingly intuitive structure: the form of a sentence was quite literally \"derived\" from its meaning via transformations. To some, interpretive semantics seemed rather \"clunky\" and \"ad hoc\" in comparison. This was especially so before the development of trace theory.\n\n There is little agreement concerning the question of whose idea generative semantics was. All of the people mentioned here have been credited with its invention (often by each other). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14817052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14817052", "title": "Greek language question", "text": "Greek language question\n\nThe Greek language question (, \"to glossikó zítima\") was a dispute about whether the language of the Greek people (Demotic Greek) or a cultivated imitation of Ancient Greek (\"katharevousa\") should be the official language of the Greek nation. It was a highly controversial topic in the 19th and 20th centuries, and was finally resolved in 1976 when Demotic was made the official language. The language phenomenon in question, which also occurs elsewhere in the world, is called diglossia.\n\nWhile Demotic was the vernacular of the Greeks, \"Katharevousa\" was an archaic and formal variant that was pronounced like Modern Greek, but it adopted both lexical and morphological features of Ancient Greek that the spoken language had lost over time. Examples:\n\nThese differences meant that \"katharevousa\" was only partly intelligible to a Greek without higher education. There was no single \"Katharevousa\". Instead, proponents of the formal language put forward ever-changing variants that were never standardized. These variants approached Attic Greek in extreme cases, but they could also be closer to spoken Greek and could be understood by the majority of the people.\n\nThe Greek language question concerns the co-existence of two, in extreme cases, completely different forms of Greek that greatly exceeds the usual stylistic difference between written and spoken language, as in the following text:\n\n\n\n\nThe discussion began at the end of the 18th century, as Eugenios Voulgaris (1716–1806), Lambros Photiadis, St. Kommitas and Neophytos Doukas, who were proponents of a more archaic language, and Voulgaris's students Iosipos Moisiodax (1725–1800) and Dimitrios Katartzis (ca. 1725-1807), who proposed a simpler language, began to voice their opinions. The phanariots were a group of conservative and educated nobles who supported the archaic language and were the most important critics of the language of the people. This discussion later became crucial when it was to be decided which one should be the single language of the modern Greek state, which was yet to be founded. Adamantios Korais (1748–1833) influenced the further discussion considerably. While being a supporter of the language of the people, Korais sought to cleanse it from elements that he considered to be too \"vulgar\" and eventually invented \"katharevousa\". After a prolonged War of Independence, the modern Greek state was founded in 1830; the first capital was Nafplio and, from 1834 onwards, Athens.\n\nPublishing had been brought almost to a halt by the war, and with it the intellectual debate, but by 1830 an informal consensus had been reached that the new state should have a unified written language modeled on Korais' version of \"katharevousa\"; \"... the romantic-classical ideology of the new state that emerged from [the War] could not condone the use of 'vulgar' spoken Greek; instead it installed the linguistic compromise solution advocated by Korais as a provisional measure until such time as Ancient Greek could be fully revived. What was perhaps intended to be a temporary stop-gap, however, eventually became firmly entrenched as the established form of Greek in official use.\" (Mackridge 2009 p. 158)\n\nThe adoption, however, was not expressed in formal or legal terms specifying \"katharevousa\" as 'the language of the state'. To do so would have dashed the hopes of the many who hoped that Ancient Greek itself would one day take over that role. It would also have been difficult to specify to a legal standard of precision exactly what was meant by \"katharevousa glossa\" (at the time, \"katharevousa\" was still an adjective). In fact, the only mention of language in legislation appeared in the educational laws of 1834 and 1836, which established that Ancient Greek (not \"katharevousa\") should continue to be the only language of the readers and textbooks used in schools.\n\nThere was also no official body to make such decisions: \"It is characteristic of the Greek case that, while language reforms in other new states were undertaken with the help of official and semi-official bodies, \"katharevousa\" was developed in an empirical and unsystematic fashion, without congresses, commissions, and academies, and with little official support.\" (Mackridge 2009 p. 164)\n\nKorais himself (though an admirer of the legislated clarity and precision of French) explicitly rejected the idea of a top-down imposition of language standards by a body modelled on the Académie française. As a secular republican in language as well as in politics, he rejected this 'tyranny' and favoured an informal 'parliamentary' model; the poets and prose writers are the 'legislators', 'elected' by the size of their readership, and they have a duty to guide the language wisely by their majority opinion and their example. Guidance is necessary, to avoid the 'mob rule' of undisciplined and uncorrected demotic, but ultimate authority still lies with the people, whose judgement over the long term decides which works and writers are 'elected' as the classics to be emulated.\n\nIn line with these principles, Korais took great pains not to appear to be a one-man \"Académie\". Much of his writing on the language question was published in the prefaces to his 16-volume \"Hellenic Library\" series of ancient Greek texts, and they were modestly titled \"Impromptu thoughts on Greek culture and language\". Most of his other linguistic studies were issued as five collected volumes under the even more self-effacing title \"Atakta\", a \"jumbled miscellany\". It has even been suggested that \"the chief reason why Korais did not publish a grammar of Modern Greek was precisely that he wanted to avoid legislating on grammatical matters.\"\n\nIn 1833, the year of Korais' death, a new collected edition of his \"Impromptu thoughts...\" prefaces was published, making his ideas available to a much wider audience than before and providing a linguistic example to follow.\n\nTwo of his ideas in particular had widespread influence: his worship of Ancient Greek perfection, and his belief in the necessity of 'correcting' the modern language. The rhetoric of the time is \"full of adjectives such as 'correct', 'rich', 'pure', 'noble' and even 'sacred' to describe Ancient Greek and/or \"katharevousa\" and their antonyms 'ungrammatical', 'poor', 'corrupt' or 'adulterated', 'vulgar' or 'base', and 'profane' or even 'blasphemous' to refer to demotic.\"\n\nForeign loanwords were especially reviled. As Korais had written, \"To borrow from foreigners—or, to speak more clearly, to beg words and phrases, with which the storerooms of one's language are already replete—creates a reputation for complete ignorance or even idiocy as well as dishonour.\"\n\nIn this intellectual climate, the population set to work with enthusiasm to restore the national honour by 'correcting' the Greek vocabulary. Alehouses and brewers took down the signs saying \"biraria\" (from Italian ') and put up \"ale-house\". Grocers took down \"bakaliko\" (from Turkish ') and put up while various academics and professionals devised and issued (at the invitation of the state) vocabularies appropriate to their fields; the more 'official' the field, the more like Ancient Greek the new vocabulary appeared.\n\nFor example, the newly formed Royal Hellenic Navy introduced the use of Ancient Greek nautical terms although civilian seamen continued to use the traditional ones, many of them loanwords from Italian, owing to the centuries-old maritime influence of Venice and Genoa, and with borrowings from the Italian-based Mediterranean Lingua Franca of the Levantine ports.\n\nIn Athens, the new capital, now that \"katharevousa\" had been accepted for official purposes, most hopes for the future were concentrated on 'ennobling' and 'correcting' everyday speech; outside the Ionian Islands (which would not become part of the Greek state until 1864), very few now argued for the use of 'uncorrected' demotic as the language of the state. Quite apart from its supposed inadequacy and vulgarity, there had been another political and diplomatic reason to rule out using demotic as the state language. In 1830 the population of the new Greek state was about 800,000; but outside the borders were at least two million more Greek-speakers (mainly in the Ionian Islands and the remaining provinces of the Ottoman Empire), and millions more members of the Greek Orthodox Church who worshiped in Ancient Greek and shared much Greek culture even though they spoke Albanian, Bulgarian or Aromanian at home. At this early stage of the Greek state, it was far from clear how large its borders would ultimately be and whether citizenship would depend on language, religion, or simple residence. It was recognized, though, that if demotic had become the state language, it might well have alienated millions of non-Greek speaking Orthodox believers within the potentially much larger future borders.\n\nAmong the believers in 'correction', hopes were still divided between those who pushed for the full resurrection of Ancient Greek (bringing with it Truth and Freedom, as Soutsos put it later), and the majority who believed with Korais that this was quite unrealistic but that demotic could still be 'corrected' to the less demanding level of \"katharevousa\". Both believed wholeheartedly in the power of the written language to transform the spoken one; they hoped that the 'pure' forms would naturally trickle down to replace the 'corrupted' demotic ones and that the spoken language would thus be pulled up to a 'richer' and 'nobler' level.\n\nThere was also a moral and spiritual side to linguistic 'correction'. Korais had believed, \"Because of their enslavement to foreign rulers, the Modern Greeks were incapable of thinking properly and thus of speaking properly; the correction of language would, however, lead to the correction of both thought and behaviour.\" It was hoped that as the damage done to the spoken language by centuries of subjection to 'Oriental despotism' was gradually repaired, the Greeks would begin to think more like their rational, critical and creative ancestors, and that the political and cultural life of the nation would thus be revitalized.\n\nIn his preface he argued that \"it would be ridiculous to express scholarly and scientific ideas in 'grocers' style'; for this reason, in order to be written down, our spoken language must be corrected according to that of our ancient forebears: the gap between Ancient and Modern Greek must be eliminated by writing in a more archaic language than that which is spoken, so that readers will familiarize themselves with the ancient forms.\" Like Korais, he was confident that \"poets and other writers will control the future development of the language\" and that demotic speakers would follow their lead and start to 'purify' their own speech.\n\nThe majority, however, now followed Korais in recognizing with regret that the gap between demotic and Ancient Greek was now too large to be bridged this way in one step. After all, demotic speakers had been exposed to Ancient Greek in church and school for centuries without any noticeable trickle down; the languages had simply grown too far apart for any such diffusion to be possible.\n\nIt was hoped now that \"katharevousa\" would be close enough to demotic for its 'purifying' influence to work. As Korais had written in 1804, \"Root out from the language the weeds of vulgarity, yet not all at once by the forkful, but gradually with the hand, one after the other; sow Hellenic seeds in it, but these too by the handful and not by the sackful. You will be surprised how in a short while your words and phrases have passed from the book into the mouths of the people.\"\n\nTypical of the many prominent intellectuals who believed that this would work was the statesman and diplomat Spyridon Trikoupis, whose authoritative \"History of the Greek Revolution\" was written in \"katharevousa\". \"In the introduction to his \"History\" Trikoupis attacked the archaizers and promoted Korais' 'middle way', which he followed in practice in his book... He expressed the hope that the spoken and written language would eventually become one and the same, arguing that the spoken language could not be properly cultivated if it was so widely separated from the written variety that mutual influence between the two became impossible.\"\n\n\"Katharevousa\" thus formed part of a reasoned strategy for empowering ordinary people by improving the language in which they spoke and thought, admittedly not to Ancient Greek standards but as close as was currently practicable. In its practical concern for the linguistic welfare of the whole population, it \"represented the triumph of Enlightenment intellectuals over the Ancient Greek resurrection proposal\".\n\nDuring the next few decades, however, the \"katharevousa\" in general use grew more and more archaic as writers gradually introduced Ancient Greek features (like the noun dative case) that had not been present in Korais' version. In part, it was driven by a search for internal correctness or at least consistency, and in part by a feeling that since Ancient Greek was the ideal language, any approach to it could only be regarded as progress. Not only did new writers use more archaic forms than their predecessors; individual authors also tended to use more archaisms as their careers advanced—sometimes even in successive editions of the same work. Soutsos first published his ground-breaking \"katharevousa\" dramatic poem 'The Wayfarer' () in 1831, using much demotic vocabulary and grammar. However, the editions of 1842 and then 1853 contained progressively more archaic language.\n\nHowever, the question of exactly which archaisms to re-introduce provoked much acrimonious bickering among scholars. This flared up in 1853, when Panagiotis Soutsos published \"New School of the Written Word, or Resurrection of the Ancient Greek Language Understood by All\". Breaking with the convention of respecting Korais (while still making archaizing 'corrections'), in this pamphlet he rejected the whole idea of a 'simplified' Ancient Greek, dismissing \"katharevousa\" as a \"meagre Frankish edifice\" full of imported Gallicisms, and deriding the university professors whose writing was hardly Greek at all, merely literally translated French. He declared \"that the hearts and minds of the modern Greeks will be elevated by writing Ancient Greek, and that they will thereby learn Truth and Freedom\". Accordingly, Soutsos proposed to restore almost all of the ancient grammar to the current language. Even Soutsos, however, had limits. He left out the dual number, and the logical connectives \"for\" and \"therefore\", as being too far from modern usage; and in yet another compromise, he admitted that the public were not yet ready for the ancient negative particle , while also recommending that the demotic equivalent should be avoided, thus leaving his followers with no easy way of writing \"not\".\n\nThe proposal drew an immediate counter-attack from Soutsos' bitter academic rival Konstantinos Asopios: \"The Soutseia, or Mr Panagiotis Soutsos scrutinized as a Grammarian, Philologist, Schoolmaster, Metrician and Poet\". After pointing out errors and solecisms in Soutsos' own language, Asopios went on to defend Korais' general 'simplifying' approach, but with the addition of his own selection of archaisms. The exchange sparked a small war of pamphlets from other pedants, competing to expose inconsistencies, grammatical errors and phrases literally translated from French in the works of their rivals, and proposing their own alternative sets of rules.\n\nIn this climate of academic discord it was difficult for the educational authorities to know what grammatical rules to teach in the few years of primary education available to most Greeks. The matter was settled in 1856 when a royal decree re-affirmed the decisions of 1834 and 1836 and laid down, \"As the Grammar of the Greek language... that of the ancient language alone is prescribed\" for teaching in primary schools; it was the only consistent set of rules with a status that all could agree on.\nMeanwhile, although the details were under continual dispute, the drift towards the archaic continued; to men who visualized the language as a magnificent building in need of restoration, the structure would always seem ugly and incomplete until the last piece had been slotted back into place. By 1877 the diplomat and \"katharevousa\" poet could write:\n\nWe are convinced, now that the dative has become generally accepted, that the future, which is already in use among the better writers, will follow it, and that the infinitive, on the increase in many quarters, will follow this in turn, together with the negative particles...\n\nThis extract is from the introduction to \"Julian the Transgressor\" (Ιουλιανός ο παραβάτης: ποίημα δραματικόν), the \"dramatic poem\" in which Rangavis attempted to re-introduce the long-disused infinitive into poetry. Although this author was an extreme example, his linguistic ambition had been widely shared; Skarlatos D. Vyzantios, well known for his 1835 dictionary of demotic, had written as late as 1862 that \"resurrection from the dead of our paternal language is our sweetest dream.\"\n\nRangavis himself continued to write ever more archaic virtuoso works, notably the \"remarkable and futile\" \"Theodora\" (1884). But in the event, he was to be one of the last archaists in Greek literature—\"remarkable and futile\" is Mackridge's evaluation.\n\nAlmost all of these writers \"subscribed to the frequently expressed argument that as long as the (the common people) could passively comprehend a certain usage, then this was sufficient justification for adopting it; the question whether the could \"actively\" handle such a usage was usually ignored.\" (emphasis in the original) (Mackridge 2009 p. 185)\n\nIn practice, even after fifty years of exposure to them and given several years of Ancient Greek grammar lessons in primary school, the 'common people' had adopted none of the archaic usages. They were happy to use newly coined \"katharevousa\" terms for modern inventions, and some (though not all) alternatives for loanwords, but the trickle-down of Ancient Greek grammatical forms into the language of ordinary people that Korais and Vyzantios had hoped for simply did not happen. It seemed that the scholars had greatly overestimated the influence of the written word on everyday speech patterns.\n\nIn fact, instead of closing the gap by gradually pulling demotic up to its own level, \"katharevousa\" was moving away from the spoken language, widening the gap and leaving the 'common people' behind. As a result, while many Greeks could read (or at least puzzle out) the \"katharevousa\" in official use, only a minority could now write it with any pleasure or confidence. It was far from the universal standard language of Korais' vision; writing itself was becoming the preserve of a small elite.\n\nBy the 1870s, it had become a matter of serious concern. In the Ionian Islands, always less impressed by the social status of \"katharevousa\", Andreas Laskaratos wrote in 1872 that \"the \"logiόtatoi\" [pedants], the enemies of the nation, while pretending to speak to the nation in a language better than its own, are speaking and writing in a language that the nation does not understand, [with the result that] it remains untutored, ignorant and barbarous, and consequently betrayed by them\".\n\nA decade later in Athens, among the \"logiόtatoi\", even the young Georgios Hatzidakis (newly appointed assistant professor of linguistics at Athens University, and later to become \"katharevousa\"'s greatest defender) had come to recognize the problem. In one of his earliest published pieces (in the magazine Estia, 1883) he admitted, \"In our struggle to render the written language more noble, we are allowing the Greek people to become more uncouth.\" However, he explicitly ruled out switching to writing in demotic, which he dismissed as \"the tattered \"Romaic language\", which is not sufficient for anything\" (emphasis in original).\n\nBy about 1880, it had become tacitly accepted that the fifty-year dream of Vyzantios, Soutsos and their fellows had failed: neither the 'common people' nor the state would ever be using Ancient Greek as their everyday language. \"Katharevousa\" thus lost one of its justifications, as a necessary halfway stage in the natural restoration of the ancient language. It would now have to stand on its own merits as the practical written language of a modern state.\n\nIt was also clear that something must now be done to loosen the grip of Ancient Greek on the educational system. Accordingly, in 1881, provision was officially made for the teaching of some \"katharevousa\" in Greek primary schools. It was the first time that anything other than Ancient Greek had been allowed in education. However, change was slow; some Ancient Greek continued to be taught in primary schools until 1917, and secondary schools were allowed nothing else until 1909.\n\nIt was in the Ionian Islands, part of the Greek state only after 1864 and culturally still on the periphery, that the first stirrings of a new demotic movement appeared. On the mainland, the First Athenian School of literature had been concentrating on \"katharevousa\" since 1830; but in the Islands the Heptanesian tradition of demotic poetry associated with Dionysios Solomos lived on, and some were still prepared to argue for the written use of the spoken language.\n\nIn 1850 there was a new development when Antonios Manousos produced the first collection of Greek folk-songs to be published on Greek soil: \"National Songs\". This was one of the first shoots of the folklore movement that was to blossom a generation later, though for the moment its influence was limited to the Ionian Islands. But Manousos did more than just collect. In his preface he presented a satirical dialogue between the Editor (in demotic) and a Pedant (in archaic \"katharevousa\") which raised many of the issues central to the Language Question. The Editor defends his decision to value and preserve the songs, while the Pedant complains about their language, making himself look rather ridiculous in the process. Manousos ended his preface with a long quote from Ioannis Vilaras in support of the written use of the spoken language, and immediately put this into practice by writing his own commentaries on the songs in demotic.\n\nSuch arguments did not find a sympathetic ear in the mainland Greek state. When in 1853 the Ionian poet Georgios Tertsetis was bold enough to enter the national poetry competition with the demotic poem \"Corinna and Pindar\" the adjudicator advised that \"we must not dissipate our forces in the specific development of dialects, but concentrate them on the dignified formation of the Panhellenic language\". The adjudicator was Alexandros Rizos Rangavis, one of the most influential literary men of the time. Language policy at the time was very much at the service of the Megali Idea, the grand re-unification of the entire Greek nation. Some critics were less polite; an anonymous newspaper article (probably written by Soutsos) sharply reminded Tertsetis that it was inappropriate for Ionians, who possessed \"a poor dialect\", to impose it on \"the language of the free Hellenes\".\n\nHowever, these attitudes were to be softened over the next two decades, notably by Aristotelis Valaoritis, Ionian poet and parliamentarian, whose work significantly advanced the acceptance of demotic as a language of poetry.\n\nDuring his early career in the Parliament of the United States of the Ionian Islands, Valaoritis had become famous for his passionately patriotic poems, written in vigorous demotic with dramatic dialogue and a style recalling Greek folk-song. But (in an 1857 foreword, just after the Soutsos controversy) he had also mounted a strong defence of the general use of \"the language of the people\" in poetry: \"Born automatically, it is not the work of art, unlike the [\"katharevousa\"] that is being devised at present... it is the sole remaining shoot on the venerable old tree of our nationality\".\n\nWhen (after the unification of 1864) Valaoritis moved to Athens to take a seat in the national Greek Parliament, his high reputation went with him; and when in 1872 the University commissioned him to write a commemorative poem, it described his language as \"sweetly spoken and entirely national\". Although this referred only to its use in poetry, Athenian attitudes to demotic had now begun to change, particularly in the years after 1870. It was no longer just the 'debased grocers' slang' of a generation before. In the next year, 1873, the national poetry competition was won for the first time by a collection of poems in demotic—\"The Voice of My Heart\" by the young Dimitrios Kampouroglou.\n\nWhen it came to prose, however, even Valaoritis still used \"katharevousa\".\n\nIn 1873 (brought up in Lefkada and Corfu in the Islands) became one of the first to break with this convention when he published \"The Question of the Language\" in Corfu. Writing in fluent demotic prose, Konemenos presented what was in effect a demoticist manifesto, arguing that the spoken language should become the basis of the national written language.\n\n\"Language... is a means, not an end,\" he wrote, and should be judged on its effectiveness in conveying meaning and emotion. 'Vulgarity and impropriety' are properties of the content, not the language itself; and since even the \"lόgioi\"—the learned—are now accepting the use of demotic in poetry, it has proved capable of conveying even the most sublime concepts. \"I believe,\" he continued, \"that our modern language is a perfection of the ancient.\"\n\nFor Konemenos, as for so many others, the language question had a patriotic and spiritual dimension. \"All other nations have a present. We do not... By despising and renouncing our language, we are despising and renouncing our present.\"\n\nTwo years later, Konemenos published \"Once More on Language\", in which he answered his critics and developed his ideas. To those who complained that his prose did not sound like genuine demotic speech, he explained that he was trying to develop a 'de-regionalized' demotic. The supporters of \"katharevousa\" had always maintained that the spoken dialects differed so much among themselves that it would be impractical to use demotic as a written language; Konemenos showed that there was more than enough common ground. \"We don't have dialects, but we have idioms\".\n\nAs for the grammarians, instead of adapting their technical terms to describe the living language, they were trying to alter the language itself to make it conform to their outdated system, \"chopping and squeezing the body\" to fit the ancient clothes. Finally he gave a demotic translation of a text on international law written in archaic \"katharevousa\". Konomenos was one of the first to attempt this sort of exercise, which was to be repeated by other demoticists as late as the 1960s.\n\nNevertheless, despite his energy and foresight, Konemenos' work had little immediate impact. Publishing in Corfu (rather than Athens) and working as a consul in Patras, he was perhaps too far from the political and cultural centres in Athens to be taken seriously. However, new political and cultural developments were soon to make Greece much more receptive to demoticist ideas.\n\nThe first was the foundation in 1870 of the Bulgarian Exarchate, effectively an independent Bulgarian Orthodox Church, with services held in Church Slavonic rather than archaic Greek.\n\nA few generations earlier it had been possible to hope, as Voulgaris and Kodrikas did, that all the Orthodox believers of the Balkans could form a single political community united by the Orthodox Church and its Ancient Greek language, regardless of the many different vernaculars spoken in the home; but the establishment of the Exarchate marked the end of that dream. A generation of bright young men from all over the (still Ottoman-occupied) Balkans had indeed come to the University of Athens (founded 1837) to study Greek language and culture, but when they returned to their homelands they did not serve as Greek cultural missionaries (although in many cases they continued to correspond with each other in Greek). Instead they founded national movements of their own, promoted the literary and official use of their own spoken languages, and established the use of those languages in church. This removed yet another justification for the official use of the ancient language in the Greek state; it was clearly about to lose its old status as a common language for Orthodox worship across the Balkans.\n\nOn the other hand, the political importance of demotic had increased. In this time of national awakenings, the language spoken in the home had become much more important in defining ethnicity than the old religious classifications used by the Ottomans. This had happened first in Serbia, then Romania and Bulgaria, and was about to happen in Albania; inevitably the mood spread to Greece too, where actually speaking demotic Greek began to seem as important as merely possessing the Greek 'national consciousness' () on which previous generations had placed such high hopes.\n\nThis was also a time for re-drawing borders in the Balkans. For the past century the European Powers had been engaged with the Eastern Question, of how to deal with the slow disintegration of the Ottoman Empire; and following the 1878 Congress of Berlin, the Great Powers in 1881 forced the Ottomans to cede Thessaly to Greece. This brought the northern border closer to the southern border of the newly established autonomous principality of Bulgaria. The two young nations now faced each other across a strip of Ottoman territory inhabited by a patchwork of communities speaking demotic Greek, Bulgarian, Aromanian and Albanian.\n\nThe Greek, Bulgarian and Romanian governments now began to promote their respective languages and interests by opening new primary schools all over the Ottoman territory. Slav-speaking parents could now send their children to Bulgarian-sponsored schools where they would learn to read and write the language they used at home, and (if their district had joined the Exarchate) in church.\n\nBy contrast the Greek-sponsored schools could still offer only Ancient Greek, in a curriculum that had begun to seem unsatisfactory even in Greece itself, and an appeal to a Greek 'national consciousness'. This was far less successful after 1870 than in the centuries before.\n\nNow that it had come down to a contest of languages, it began to seem that (if only for reasons of political strategy) it might be a good idea to value more highly the demotic actually spoken by many inhabitants of the disputed territory. In the years following the 1878 Congress, for the first time, a 'demoticist current' began to flow in the Greek political world.\n\nAs early as 1857 some efforts had been made to collect phrases, proverbs, songs, narratives and all kinds of traditions from schoolchildren; but the systematic and scholarly study of folklore was established in Greece by the young , when his \"Study of the Culture of the Modern Greeks\" was published in two parts in 1871–74. This explicitly linked modern customs to ancient ones.\n\nThe study of \"\" (national folklore) swiftly gained momentum among scholars eager to demonstrate the cultural and territorial continuity of the Greek people in their homeland since ancient times. This was not unconnected to the political situation. Just as the creation of \"katharevousa\" had answered the political needs of its time (throwing off the Turkish yoke, erasing the traces of servitude and regaining cultural parity with Enlightenment Europe), so now the \"laografia\" movement served the new \"national struggle\" against the Slav territorial threat in the north.\n\nThis new-found enthusiasm for continuity also applied to historians. In 1874 Konstantinos Paparrigopoulos completed his monumental \"History of the Greek Nation\", presenting a unified and continuous story \"from Agamemnon to George I\" (as Hatzidakis put it later). This gave equal weight to the Classical and the post-Classical (especially Byzantine) periods, which many in Korais' time had dismissed as wasted centuries of subjection to 'Oriental despotism'. Now \"our medieval kingdom\" was embraced as an essential part of the Greek story.\n\nWith the newly celebrated continuity of culture and history came recognition of the continuity of the spoken language, and a new respect for demotic as the true voice of an ancient nation emerging from a time of trials. The poet Kostis Palamas later wrote that Politis' folklore studies had revealed \"the fragmented face of the national soul under the masks that [changing] times have forced it to wear\". It was around this time that folk-songs gradually ceased to be called \"tragoudia ethnika\" (national songs) and became known as \"dimotika tragoudia\" (demotic songs), explicitly linking the survival of the 'national soul' with demotic, and not with \"katharevousa\".\n\nGreek thinkers were also learning from the national unification movements in Italy and Germany. Inspired by Johann Gottfried Herder and perfected by the Brothers Grimm, the combination of folklore studies with scientific linguistics had proved highly effective in demonstrating German cultural continuity. The same combination would soon be put to work in Greece.\n\nLinguistics had made considerable advances in the half-century since Korais' time. The decipherment of ancient writing systems, the publication of Grimm's Law of sound-changes in 1822, Bopp's tracing of the inter-relationships of the Indo-European languages, Diez's work on the development of the Romance languages from Vulgar Latin, Schleicher's demonstration of an evolutionary tree of languages, and finally the announcement of Verner's Law in 1875, had all made it clear that the changes a language undergoes as time passes are not simply accumulations of random damage, like copying errors in a manuscript. Instead, the sound-changes are usually exceptionless and other developments often highly systematic. It had become evident that in the long term languages are constantly evolving like living things, rather than simply deteriorating from some perfect state established in a past age. This threw a very different light on the relationship between demotic and Ancient Greek.\n\nThis Neogrammarian school of thought also regarded speech, rather than writing, as the essential root of language; as a rule it is the spoken language that naturally takes the lead in evolution, with written versions following later or not at all. These insights helped to explain why the trickle-down of 'pure' grammatical forms in the opposite, 'unnatural' direction—from written \"katharevousa\" to spoken demotic—had been so disappointingly unsuccessful.\n\nIn addition, the Neogrammarians drew attention to the way in which speakers constantly and instinctively adjust their speech to the usage they hear around them, thus maintaining the coherence and internal consistency of their spoken language across all its speakers at any given time (and keeping the sound-changes exceptionless). This means that spoken languages feel a natural everyday pressure towards internal consistency that written (but un-spoken) languages do not. This too threw some light on the failure of \"katharevousa\" to reach a stable consensus grammar over the two generations since its adoption.\n\nThis was the intellectual ground on which the two pre-eminent Greek linguists of the new generation, Hatzidakis and Ioannis Psycharis, would battle for the next few decades: Hatzidakis as the defender of \"katharevousa\", and Psycharis as the champion of demotic.\n\nThe literary 'Generation of 1880', also called the New Athenian School, made their debut with the publication in 1880 of the first collections of poetry from Georgios Drossinis and . In contrast to the First Athenian School poetry of Soutsos and his contemporaries, who had used increasingly archaic \"katharevousa\", the new work was largely in demotic; and the poems of Drossinis' next collection, \"Idylls\" (1884), are almost all on themes from folklore, informed by the \"laografia\" work of his friend Politis.\n\nHowever, the leading figure of the Generation of 1880 was to be Drossinis' and Kampas' close friend Kostis Palamas, who published his first collection of poems, \"The Songs of my Homeland\", in 1886. All of these were in demotic. Palamas went on to win the national Filadelfeios poetry prize in 1889, and again in 1890, with more works in demotic. Within little more than a decade, \"katharevousa\" had been supplanted by demotic as the preferred language of Athenian poetry.\n\nThe press were quick to realize this. Already in 1880 a number of journals (including the prestigious family magazine \"Estia\" and the newspaper \"Akropolis\") had opened their pages to poetry in demotic; and from 1889 onwards, under the editorship of successive New Athenians, \"Estia\" became a strong supporter of the demotic movement.\n\nAlthough poetry was being taken over by demotic, prose fiction in the 1880s remained almost entirely \"katharevousa\". The three leading fiction writers of the time, Alexandros Papadiamantis, and Emmanouil Roïdis, were masters of \"katharevousa\" style. But although non-fiction could be entirely \"katharevousa\" (and in fact largely remained so for many years to come), fiction needed some demotic, if only for realistic dialogue, and the three writers handled this in different ways.\n\nPapadiamantis became famous for interweaving \"katharevousa\" narration (of an almost liturgical style) with interior reflections and reminiscences in demotic, and with dialogue in local dialect. In this way he created a layered richness of texture that has rarely been equalled (and is also impossible to translate). In stories of his own childhood, the adult narrator writes \"katharevousa\" in counterpoint to the demotic voice of his childhood self, and the difference in language suggests a poignant distance between the little boy and the man he will become. Papadiamantis never expressed any dissatisfaction with \"katharevousa\" as an artistic medium.\nVizyinos, however, had different attitudes to \"katharevousa\" and to childhood. In one piece he recalled his own confusion and dismay at being forced, early in his school-days, to call an apple tree by the Ancient Greek word μηλέα, instead of the demotic μηλιά. After being beaten by the schoolmaster he decides on a compromise: apple trees in general can be μηλέα, but the one in the family garden will always be μηλιά to him.\n\nHere Vizyinos (who had risen from very humble beginnings) was one of the first to give a voice to the generations of pupils who had been told when they started school that their names for things were unacceptable, and that they must now learn Ancient Greek words for those same things. This anticipated the work of Fotiadis and the demoticists of the Educational Association a generation later. Vizyinos himself emphasized the importance of the educational issue; he concluded that \"the mania of those who want to teach not the nature of things ... but unfamiliar words ... renders Greek education a Sisyphean labour and condemns the nation to the worst possible death from spiritual starvation! For this reason the question concerning the Greek language is, in my view, ... more vital than the Eastern Question.\"\n\nIn his other works Vizyinos started a trend for placing much of the narrative in the mouths and thoughts of ordinary people, so that most of the writing could be in demotic, framed by passages in \"katharevousa\".\n\nRoïdis, by contrast, was known for pure \"katharevousa\" prose, used with precision and cool irony. Coming from a wealthy cosmopolitan background, he had little contact with rural demotic, and specialized in satirical essays; but he had his own criticisms of \"katharevousa\", which he was later to set out in detail in \"The Idols\" (1893).\nSome of the next generation of young prose writers were also unhappy with \"katharevousa\" as an artistic medium. In an 1883 prologue to his first novel, Grigorios Xenopoulos wrote that \"the Greek language, or rather that monstrous mixture which the Greeks of today call a language, is an abyss\" that causes such difficulties for anyone who wishes to use it that it actually discourages writing altogether.\n\nShortly afterwards, in his novel \"Nikolas Sigalos\", he put similar sentiments into the musings of a fictional writer: \"The devil! ... Call this a language? Is this writing or translating? What have I been doing all this time? Translating into so-called \"katharevousa\" what I am thinking in the vernacular, in my mother tongue. \"Katharevousa\"! ... A monstrosity ... !\"\n\nXenopoulos' views carry all the more weight because he was not some easily discouraged amateur; he was later to become one of Greece's most eminent men of letters.\n\nThe dissatisfaction expressed by Vizyinos, Xenopoulos, and later by Roïdis was a new development in Greek literary life. Thirty years before, the Athenian establishment had been wholly committed to what A. R. Rangavis in 1853 had called \"the dignified formation of the Panhellenic language\", even if there was some disagreement over how archaic it should be. But these new criticisms did not come from Ionian provincials or demotic poets; they were coming from leading \"katharevousa\" prose writers working in the Athenian establishment itself.\n\n\"Katharevousa\" was also about to receive more criticism, of a quite different kind, from an even more establishment quarter.\n\nIn 1882 the classical philologist Konstantinos Kontos, a professor at the University of Athens, published \"Linguistic Observations Regarding Modern Greek\", a collection of two hundred 'observations' in which he pointed out grammatical errors and semantic sloppiness in the works of other scholars from Voulgaris onwards, including Korais, Doukas and Asopios. Korais himself had intended \"katharevousa\" to be a subset of Ancient Greek, obeying its rules wherever they applied (though in practice some compromise had been necessary); but Kontos demonstrated how even the most learned writers continually broke the most basic rules of Ancient Greek grammar.\n\nKontos asserted that Korais' compromises were no longer necessary, as the language had \"advanced\" since his time (by which he meant it had become more archaic, as with the gradual restoration of the dative case), and he never used the term \"katharevousa\". In his eyes, if it was not up to Ancient Greek standards, it was wrong. Yet he gave no analysis of why these errors might be occurring, or any programme for preventing them; he simply presented a list of the mistakes of other writers.\n\nKontos' knowledge of Ancient Greek was unrivalled, and many of his 'observations' were factually correct. Yet the principal effect of \"Linguistic Observations ...\" was to create the impression that the \"katharevousa\" in current use was somehow second-rate, and also impossibly hard to use correctly.\nTwo years later it received an answer, in the form of \"A Censure of Pseudo-Atticism\" by Dimitrios Vernardakis, another professor (and aspiring neoclassical dramatist). In this long, rambling book Vernardakis defended the current version of \"katharevousa\", and criticized Kontos for archaistic nit-picking when he should have been addressing the problems of Greek education. In keeping with his general defence of the \"status quo\", Vernardakis also attacked the language of the new demotic poets as inauthentic, and untrue to the actual rural demotic of the 'common people'. In this he was justified to some extent, because the New Athenian poets were more or less consciously working to create a de-regionalized demotic for national use; Vernardakis warned against this modern notion, claiming it would corrupt \"the language of the people\".\n\nIn the same year (1884) the young Hatzidakis, now also a professor at Athens University, replied in turn with his \"Study on Modern Greek, or Trial of the Censure of Pseudo-Atticism\" in which he defended Kontos for insisting on grammatical correctness. As an outstanding linguist of the new generation, Hatzidakis was well aware of the evolutionary history of demotic and recognized that \"katharevousa\" was an artificial construction, a \"Kunstsprache\". But he maintained that since its use was now well established, it should be used correctly and consistently, in line with Ancient Greek models where possible. After all (as he would argue in a later work), \"katharevousa\" \"was no more difficult to learn than any foreign language\".\n\nHe was also well aware of the evolutionary history of the other European languages, and the parallels between Greek and Latin, in particular the part played by Dante Alighieri in transforming the 'demotic' Tuscan descendants of Vulgar Latin into literary Italian. Taking the long view, Hatzidakis recognized that the same thing could eventually happen in Greece; he looked forward to the adoption of demotic for all written purposes, but only after \"a Shakespeare or a Dante\" had appeared to erect an \"outstanding literary edifice\" to rank with the Divine Comedy and establish a standard. Hatzidakis maintained this position for the rest of his long life. While admitting the theoretical possibility of eventually using demotic as a written language, he would never concede that it was ready.\n\nThis image of demotic 'still waiting for its Dante' reappeared many times in the next few decades, in the works of many other writers.\n\nIt is noteworthy that none of the participants in this controversy (not even Kontos) called for the full resurrection of Ancient Greek, even as an ultimate dream. That hope now belonged to the past. From the new perspective of evolutionary linguistics, it would have seemed as unrealistic as persuading the whole of modern Italy to revert to speaking and thinking in Classical Latin.\n\nMeanwhile, Roïdis had been formulating his own critique of the current state of the Greek language, from his point of view as a master of \"katharevousa\". Already in 1885 he had argued that it had become impossible to write without being forced to choose between words and grammatical forms that were \"either exiled from our written discourse on the grounds that they are vulgar, or archaic and therefore alien to spoken usage\".\n\nIn 1885 he had also coined the word \"diglossia\" to describe the way members of Parliament, for example, used \"katharevousa\" in prepared speeches but switched to demotic in debate. Roïdis pointed out that it was not simply a matter of spoken versus written forms, since both were being spoken, and on exactly the same topics; or of social class or educational level, since the same men were using both. Instead of gradually moving to a more informal style or register, as in other languages, the speakers were switching out of one language and into another, lexically and grammatically distinct, with nothing in between.\n\nIn the same year he began work on a longer treatment of the language question, \"The Idols\", which was substantially complete by 1888. The 'Idols' of the title were the beliefs of the linguistic purists: that modern spoken Greek was corrupt, poor in vocabulary, and split into dissimilar dialects. Writing in his own precise \"katharevousa\", Roïdis introduced a wide range of linguistic evidence and coolly demolished each in turn.\n\nHe also returned to his earlier theme, that it was impossible to use \"katharevousa\" to describe simple everyday actions and objects such as food, clothes, furniture and utensils without sounding stilted and unnatural, and that it was therefore unsuited to realistic prose about ordinary life. Viewed in this light, the technique of Papadiamantis, Vizyinos and others—placing much of the description of everyday life and events in quoted demotic speech and thought—looked less like an artistic choice and more like something forced on them by the deficiencies of \"katharevousa\".\n\nHowever, when it came to recommendations on what should be done about this unsatisfactory state of affairs, all Roïdis could suggest was gradual change, for which he used the \"vague and unhelpful\" term \"katharismos tis katharevousis\" [purification of \"katharevousa\"].\n\nThough almost complete by 1888, Roïdis' \"Idols\" was not finally published until 1893, well after Psycharis' \"My Journey\", which was to transform the Language Question debate.\n\nThe publication in 1888 of \"My Journey\" by Ioannis Psycharis marked a complete break with the earlier style of discussion on the Language Question. Although Psycharis was a leading academic linguist, \"My Journey\" was written entirely in demotic, and strongly advocated the immediate abandonment of \"katharevousa\" and the adoption of demotic for all written purposes.\n\nAt this time Psycharis was assistant to the Professor of Greek at the École spéciale des Langues orientales in Paris, and \"My Journey\" described an 1886 visit he had made to Constantinople, Chios and Athens. The narrative was interwoven with observations on Greek language, culture and politics; this travelogue form made it easy for Psycharis to use the viewpoint of an interested outsider to observe and comment on things that seemed absurd to him, but were taken for granted by the locals. His central argument was that it is the spoken language that is the true voice of the Greek nation, and that Greece must embrace and reclaim this ancestral language. Only then will it be able to reclaim its ancestral lands.\n\nAs a Neogrammarian linguist, Psycharis stressed the importance of observations of actual spoken usage, and urged his fellow scholars to \"take the boatman as our teacher ..., and run and study our language at the feet of the tailor and cobbler.\" \n\nAs a Greek patriot, he also stressed the link between the Language Question and the Eastern Question. In the very first paragraph of his introduction, he declared that: \"Language and \"patrida\" [homeland] are the same thing. To fight for the homeland or for the national language is one and the same struggle.\"\n\nPsycharis was to spend the next few decades promoting and elaborating these principles. He also popularized the use of Roïdis' term \"diglossia\" to describe what he regarded as the unhealthy split between the 'official' \"katharevousa\" and the 'national' spoken language.\n\nAs for \"katharevousa\" itself, Psycharis regarded it as an artificial construction, a distraction from the true course of the Greek language. From a Neogrammarian point of view, he argued that because \"katharevousa\" had been consciously put together from a more or less arbitrary selection of Ancient Greek features, it had no naturally evolving coherent internal structure that could be studied scientifically; so there was no rigorous way of determining if a particular construction was grammatical or not.\nLanguage reform thus remained a concern of the cultural and intellectual elite, and never relied on grass-roots popular support; for example, there never was a mass outcry from working-class parents demanding education in written demotic for their children, and language reform was never adopted by any political party as a vote-winning policy. This remained true throughout the entire two centuries of the debate; the history of the Language Question is essentially a record of internal argument within the cultural elite.\n\nPsycharis had succeeded in putting the idea of remaking the written language firmly on the Greek intellectual agenda, where it would stay for the next century. But (although Roïdis immediately gave it a favourable review) \"My Journey\" itself had a mixed critical reception, even from other demoticists. There was some dispute over linguistic technicalities; there was general disagreement with Psycharis' uncompromising principle of banning all \"katharevousa\" influence; and there was a great deal of discussion about the 'ownership' of the written language—who, if anyone, was entitled to make deliberate changes to it.\n\nFor example, in 1895 Konemenos, still a committed demoticist, took issue with some of Psycharis' phonological arguments and demanded an equal voice, along with \"the boatman ... the tailor and the cobbler\" in the remaking of the written language. He was also one of many to point out that, despite Psycharis' claim to be an impartial scientific observer of linguistic evolution, many of his word-forms had never been used by any real boatman or cobbler.\n\nVlachos was not the only one to argue that written demotic, while admittedly expressing the \"national soul\", belonged to the world of the folk songs, and that poets had no business trying to adapt it to high culture or modern needs (Vernadakis had already said something similar). Accordingly, the rules of the Filadelfeios competition were changed in 1892 to specify that entries could still be in either \"katharevousa\" or demotic, but that the demotic must now be \"the pure language of the folk songs\".\n\nVlachos' speech was published in \"Estia\" and provoked many responses, notably from in \"Our Literary Language\" (1892). Polylas (originally, like Konemenos, from Corfu in the Ionian Islands) was a veteran demoticist and editor of Solomos' works, who had already (1875-1881) published a translation of Homer's \"Odyssey\" into demotic verse. While agreeing with Psycharis that \"katharevousa\" was a \"makeshift archaic construct\", he maintained that all literary languages developed from collaboration between the \"laos\" and the \"logioi\" (the people and the learned) and that demotic should welcome \"katharevousa\" words where necessary for \"the organic development of the national language\". Referring back to Vlachos' description of the new demotic as being \"not that of folk poetry ... yet all these things and something more\", Polylas concluded that exactly the same could be said of all the other European literary languages, and that this was just what Greece needed.\n\nIt was during these years that the term \"glossoplastis\" 'creator of language' gained currency. First used in 1890, it was \"a term of praise for poets who were expanding the expressive range of the demotic language, especially by demonstrating its remarkable capacity for forming new words.\" (Mackridge 2009 p. 235)\n\nPalamas too challenged both Vlachos and Psycharis in a series of long articles (written in \"katharevousa\", still the conventional norm for prose, even for demoticists). He rejected both notions of demotic 'purity': the ideal \"pure popular language, rendered immortal by the folk songs\" of Vlachos, and the doctrinaire purity of form demanded by Psycharis. Palamas argued that a language is 'owned' by the people who actually speak it—\"the Creator that gives life\" to the language—and that the Poet, as one of these speakers, has a perfect right to use words from any source—Ancient Greek, \"katharevousa\", or newly minted—as long as they contribute to the \"pan-harmonious unity of the poetic language\".\n\nPalamas followed these principles in his own demotic poetry and proved himself an accomplished \"glossoplastis\". It has been estimated that he used more than 400 new words in his collections of 1904 and 1907 alone.\n\nOn the other side of the debate, the proponents of \"katharevousa\" energetically defended the status quo. Between 1890 and 1895 Hatzidakis wrote a series of polemical articles maintaining his usual position that the scholarly community were and are the natural custodians of the written language, quite independently of spoken usage. Significantly, though, it was during these years that the term \"katharevousa\" became the standard way of referring to the version of the written language that he was defending (a decade earlier, Kontos had simply called it written Greek). It was a tacit admission that there were now two forms of written Greek.\n\nThere was also some animosity towards Psycharis personally. In an 1893 interview (possibly exaggerated by the interviewer), Papadiamantis was reported as attacking his \"monomania\", his \"psychotic\" desire to impose himself as \"the creator and teacher of a whole nation\", despite his being \"a Levantine, ... a Chiot, almost a foreigner, an aristocrat, a Fanariot\" who was out of touch with the way ordinary people actually spoke.\n\nAmong Psycharis' other critics there was much common ground. First, the credibility of his 'scientifically derived' word forms was damaged by the fact that he never actually produced a rigorous grammar of the spoken language. He was working on one, but it was still incomplete at the time of his death in 1929, and those parts that were published have been described as \"virtually unusable\". In the absence of a clear exposition of his methods, many of his choices seemed quite arbitrary.\n\nThis would not have mattered if his new words had sounded natural to native speakers; but all too often they did not, and he did not seem to realise it. This may well have been because of his foreign upbringing and the weakness of his own demotic, which he good-humouredly acknowledged in personal correspondence: \"You really must teach me Romaic—it's high time\" and \"I have an ear in French—and a very fine one to boot... In Romaic, as luck would have it, I haven't.\" (At the time, \"romaiika\", ρωμαίϊκα, \"Romaic\" was used as a term, originally rather disparaging, for the spoken language of true native-born Greeks, the \"Romioi\".)\n\nThe same limitations extended to his fiction writing. Psycharis later published many novels in his version of demotic, but they were widely considered unconvincing, largely because all the characters spoke like Psycharis himself. In this respect his attempt to teach the new language by example must be considered a failure; he could not demonstrate the full stylistic range that a living language needs (although he himself could not see this—he considered himself the greatest living fiction writer in Greece). It was evident that Psycharis, for all his cultural impact, was not himself a Dante who could remake a language with his own literary genius.\nThis was generally acknowledged even by demoticists. In another 1893 interview, Andreas Karkavitsas—who would publish \"The Beggar\", the first novel written in demotic, three years later—declared that Psycharis \"looks at language from a scientific point of view, and thus he writes demotic without feeling it.\"\n\nPsycharis also gave little thought to the practicalities of establishing a new written language. He discouraged the translation of foreign works into his new demotic, on the grounds that this would somehow dilute the \"Romios\" spirit of the young nation. In this he completely disregarded the practical usefulness of translations to the dynamic modern state that other demoticists were hoping to build.\n\nIn his single-minded pursuit of an ideal Greek language to express the soul of the \"Romios\" he also disregarded the political reality that many thousands of Greek citizens were not native Greek-speakers at all, for example the many Albanian speakers settled for centuries round Athens itself. This would have become even more of a problem in the Greater Greece that he hoped to create. In the event it was left to the demoticists of the Educational Association a generation later to tackle this crucial issue.\n\nPsycharis could be a difficult man to work with. \"Psycharis was an obstinate and opinionated man, with a passion for grandiose schemes and a psychological need to impose his personality and his views on others. He felt he was practically the only person to have a clear understanding of Greece's problems and a mission to solve them more or less single-handed. ... Whenever his views were politely questioned by his allies or directly challenged by his enemies, he dug his heels in and consistently refused to acknowledge that any alternative view might have an iota of justification.\" (Mackridge 2009 p. 218)\n\nIn fact Psycharis regarded any opposition as a personal attack; on one occasion his combative nature even led him to challenge Hatzidakis to a duel.\n\nHe was also determined to claim sole credit for founding the demoticist movement. Retrospectively summing up his own career in 1919, he declared that \"Psycharis is to demoticism what Marx is to socialism\". In \"My Journey\" itself he claimed to be the first person ever to write in demotic prose, ignoring the Ionian writers from Manousos and Konemenos onwards; \"... in his desire to be totally original he failed to give due credit to the work of the post-Solomos writers from the Ionian Islands, whom he no doubt felt to be rivals.\" (Mackridge 2009 pp. 224–5) This may be connected with his exclusion of any Ionian influence from his version of demotic.\n\nPsycharis divided the world into allies and enemies, with nothing in between, and he could be very dismissive and patronizing about anyone other than his closest allies. \"Even the Romaic language doesn't possess words to express how much I'm disgusted by \"Romiosyni\" \" who he felt were insufficiently enthusiastic about his programme. As for the literary establishment: \"Papadiamantis. Never heard of him. Who is he and what has he written?\" At the time, Papadiamantis was widely considered to be Greece's leading fiction writer.\n\nThese attitudes inevitably drove away people who might have been allies, and divided the demoticist forces. They also provoked additional opposition. Overall, Psycharis might be considered something of a double-edged weapon for the demoticist cause. \"While \"My Journey\" was perhaps what was needed to awaken Greek intellectual leaders from their torpor, Psycharis' persistence in his uncompromising attitude towards the specific language variety he proposed, as well as to the language question in general, provoked an extreme reaction that delayed the resolution of the \"katharevousa\"-demotic conflict for several decades.\" (Mackridge 2009 p. 226)\n\nThis extreme reaction took some time to develop, however, and only gathered real strength after the turn of the century. For the first few years, buoyed by a sense of optimism in the country as a whole, the debate was good-humoured and constructive.\n\nPsycharis did more than cause a stir among established writers. His energy and charisma also recruited dedicated new followers from outside the literary establishment, particularly among the Greek diaspora—men who, like himself, lived and worked outside Greece for most of their lives. Notable among these were and Alexandros Pallis.\n\nIn 1887 Cleanthis Michailidis, then working abroad for the Ralli Brothers trading company, visited his native island of Lesbos after an absence of twenty years. The next year he read \"My Journey\". The two experiences together inspired him to become a demotic writer under the pen-name Argyris Eftaliotis. The first of his \"Island Stories\" appeared in \"Estia\" in 1889, and the whole collection was published in 1894, establishing him as one of a new generation of demotic prose writers.\n\nBut Eftaliotis was more than just a short story writer (and a poet, whose entries for the Filadelfeios prizes earned some praise). He became one of Psycharis' most fervent supporters and the two men carried on a voluminous correspondence, later edited and published.\n\nThe third member of Psycharis' 'triumvirate' was Eftaliotis' close friend Alexandros Pallis. Like Eftaliotis, Pallis worked for the Ralli Brothers in Manchester, Liverpool and Bombay; his career in the company was long and successful, and he eventually became a partner and director. He used some of his considerable wealth to fund various demotic literary activities for the next few decades, including work by Palamas, Eftaliotis, Xenopoulos and Karkavitsas.\n\nPallis also published his own work, starting in 1892 with the first part of his translation of the \"Iliad\"; this was more uncompromisingly demotic than Polylas' earlier \"Odyssey\". A decade later he was also to achieve some notoriety when his demotic translation of the New Testament helped to spark the Gospel Riots in Athens.\n\nIt is notable that Psycharis, Eftaliotis and Pallis while all born on Greek soil and unfailingly patriotic, all spent much of their working lives in French- and English-speaking surroundings where diglossia was unknown and it was taken for granted that people wrote and spoke in the same language. This may have contributed to their shared perception that Greek diglossia was an exception, a problem that they could solve by energetic literary intervention.\n\nThe good humour of the debate in the early years after the advent of \"My Journey\" was demonstrated in 1893 when the prestigious Parnassos Literary Society invited Psycharis to give a talk on the subject of demotic. The Society served as a kind of informal Academy, and on this occasion the audience included the king, the queen, and two princes. The talk went well, and Psycharis concluded by returning to the image of Greek waiting for its Dante. The folk songs, he said, were \"like an anonymous Dante\", and could provide all the inspiration necessary for a rebirth of the written language.\n\nReminiscing later about the event, Psycharis recalled that some of the eminent guests had been pleasantly surprised to find that they could understand him so well; they had evidently been misled by his reputation into thinking he would be using mainly words of his own invention. Later on, when the talk was published in \"Estia\", they were also struck by the novelty of seeing an article completely written in demotic prose. In 1893 this was still quite new.\n\nDemotic received yet another sign of official esteem and recognition in 1896, when Palamas' Olympic Hymn, with words in demotic, was performed with great fanfare at the opening ceremony of the first of the modern Olympic Games in Athens. It seemed that demotic poetry had now been completely accepted.\n\nMeanwhile, some of the younger novelists were joining the demotic side. In 1896 Karkavitsas published \"The Beggar\", the first novel to be written entirely in demotic, in instalments. It was successful enough to be released in book form the following year. This was not just an experiment, but a true change of heart. His first novel \"The Slender Maiden\", published in instalments in 1890, had been written in \"katharevousa\", but when it was reissued in book form in 1896 he added a preface apologising for his earlier choice of language. It is significant that he presented the change as a switch between two forms of language, and not merely an adjustment of register to use fewer archaisms. The idea that there were now two rival forms of written Greek had taken root by 1896, and it seemed that the literary tide might be beginning to turn in favour of demotic prose.\n\nIn 1897, however, there came a new political development. Early in that year the Greek government embarked on military action against the Ottoman Empire, starting in Crete but developing into an attempt to conquer the strip of Ottoman territory to the North by force.\n\nThe result came as a most unwelcome surprise. The Greek armed forces (which had not seen action for some seven decades) performed poorly against the Ottoman troops (who were more numerous, better armed, and advised by a German military mission). The short Greco-Turkish War (1897) ended in defeat and national humiliation.\n\nThe episode became known as Black '97, and the mood of the nation darkened.\n\nIn the long term, the humiliation of 1897 delivered a salutary shock to the Greek system. The governing classes eventually rose to the challenge, enacted some necessary reforms, and were rewarded by success in the Balkan Wars of 1912–3. \"Greece's military defeat made many Greek intellectuals feel the need to rethink the ideological and linguistic basis of their national education and written culture, and it provided a boost to the demoticists and their sympathizers, who argued that the time was ripe for the now dilapidated archaistic edifice to be replaced by a new, realistic Greek national ideology based on practical education and genuine popular tradition rather than on revivalism.\" (Mackridge 2009 p. 241)\n\nThis constructive response, however, took some years to develop. In the immediate aftermath of the disaster all sides were more concerned with assigning blame. The reformers accused the militarists of incompetence; in their turn, the old guard and the militarists claimed to have been undermined by shadowy forces, probably involving plots by foreigners. \"The population as a whole became disillusioned, charges were hurled in all directions, recriminations proliferated like a plague and scapegoats were sought even among those least responsible.\" (Carabott 1993 p. 118) In this corrosive atmosphere the language debate became more rancorous and more personal.\n\nIt was in 1898 that the word \"malliaroi\" ('hairy') was first used as a jocular term for demoticists, particularly the extreme demoticists on Psycharis' wing of the movement, because of their (alleged) habit of wearing their hair long. The term remained in use for the next century, in every medium from cartoons to patriarchal encyclicals, with writers and their works being assessed according to their degree of 'hairiness'. Before 1898, the same scale had been described more politely as 'Hellenic' at one end and 'Romaic' at the other.\n\nBefore long, the name-calling had spread to both sides of the debate.\n\nThe educational system was in an alarming state and completely ineffective: The children were completely unable to express themselves in the unfamiliar formal language, which severely harmed their speech acquisition instead of educating them.\n\nOrthodox Bishop Fan Noli, who translated into demotic works of Shakespeare and Henrik Ibsen, emphasized the necessity for a people's language and recalled in his memoirs that because of \"katharevousa\" \"there were humorous scenes in a comedy and it happened that no one laughed.\"\n\nIn 1902 Fotis Fotiadis, personal physician to the Ottoman Sultan (and therefore secure enough to risk controversy) had published \"The Language Question and our Educational Renaissance\", the first book to argue for educational reform based on demotic. Claiming that it was easier for a Greek child to learn a foreign language than \"katharevousa\", he called for demotic to be established as the official language of the Greek state, education, and law.\n\nWriting as a doctor and a father, he presented a child's view of contemporary Greek education: from the start, the pupils are told that they have been using the 'wrong' language, and are made to spend much of their time simply learning new 'correct' \"katharevousa\" words and expressions. As a result, \" ... their minds become confused and disordered, and they are unable to do anything in a natural manner, instead becoming self-conscious and hesitant, not only in their linguistic expression but in everything else they do\". He argued for more than simply switching to demotic: he believed that self-development should be the priority in education, and that national self-awareness would follow. To encourage this, he urged that \"national poetry\" and \"popular music\" (meaning rural demotic folk poetry and folk music), which reveal the \"soul of the people\", should become an essential part of the curriculum.\n\nHe also emphasized the role of women in language reform. He declared that children as language-learners are \"an inexhaustible treasure for the nation\", and that women, as their mothers, are \"... the keyholders of the language. It is they that we must win over in every way ...\"\n\nFotiadis was not alone. In 1904 the National Language Society was founded to promote demotic in education and public life generally, the first organized group to do so. At the inaugural meeting the poet Kostis Palamas memorably contrasted the demotic and \"katharevousa\" versions of the simple sentence \"My father died\". While the demotic \"Πέθανε ὁ πατέρας μου\" takes root in one's heart, in one's very being, he argued, the \"katharevousa\" version \"Απέθανεν ὁ ἐμὸς πατήρ\" is like a piece of clothing that can be discarded. The demotic \"has grown organically as the green branch of our national linguistic tree\", while the \"katharevousa\" is \"the dead branch ..., which has been nailed to the linguistic trunk by willpower alone\".\n\nThe Society soon broke up, over disagreements about which version of demotic to promote. But 'educational demoticism' was now gathering momentum, along with the ground-swell of reform triggered by the humiliation of 1897.\n\nIn 1907 Georgios Skliros published \"Our Social Question\", the first Marxist manifesto in Greek. He \"argued that the ruling class was not willing to listen to the demoticists' message because it wanted to keep people in ignorance. ... Thus, whereas most demoticists had hitherto envisaged reform from above, Skliros promoted revolution from below.\"\n\nThis work was significant not just for introducing an element of class warfare into the language question (for the first time) but also for prompting a long and notable debate in the demoticist magazine \"\" (1907-1909). This pitted \"bourgeois demoticists who believed that reforming the language of Greek education would automatically lead to a liberalization of Greek society\" against \"socialists who argued that social reform or revolution was a necessary prerequisite for the solution of the language question\".\n\nBut as important as the argument was the language in which it was conducted. Although Skliros' book was in simple \"katharevousa\", the \"Noumas\" debate was published entirely in demotic. The participants spent hardly any time arguing linguistic details; they simply used whichever version of demotic they felt most comfortable writing. This variety proved to be no barrier to communication and the argument was \"carried on at a remarkably high level, in both intellectual and personal terms\". By the end of the debate it was clear that demotic prose was now a tool quite capable of handling political and historical discussion on any level.\n\nIn 1908 liberal educationalist introduced the use of demotic as the language of instruction in the newly founded Municipal Girls' High School of Volos and thereby achieved considerable improvement in test scores and pupil satisfaction. \"Katharevousa\" was still on the curriculum, but for the first time in a Greek school the girls were encouraged to express themselves freely in written demotic.\n\nReminiscing a few years later, Delmouzos related how the girls moved from a state of \"ragiadismos\" (enslavement: a term implying the mentality of subjection to the Turks during the Ottoman period) to \"spiritual/intellectual and moral \"xesklavoma\"\" (liberation). Putting aside \"katharevousa\", a \"mask for the soul\", they were able to \"externalise their inner \"logos\"\".\n\nIn spite of its success, clerics and conservatives condemned the reform and protested vehemently against the school, which was forced to close in 1911. Germanos Mavromatis, bishop of Demetrias in Magnesia and a leader of the local opposition, declared that: \"In the conscience of all the people, demoticism, anarchism, socialism, atheism and freemasonry are one and the same\", and Delmouzos was even falsely accused of sexually molesting some of the pupils. In 1914 he and some of his colleagues were brought to trial in Nafplion, accused of spreading atheism, but were quickly cleared of all charges for lack of evidence.\n\nThe fact that the pupils were girls played a part in attracting opposition. \"It is clear that there was a strong anti-feminist feeling behind the accusations against him—a feeling that women should not be too highly educated.\" (Mackridge 2009 p. 264)\n\nMeanwhile, outside the classroom Pinelopi Delta, Greece's first best-selling children's author, had begun to publish her historical adventure stories written in demotic. In correspondence with Fotiadis, Delta had insisted that children needed not only school readers but entertaining books, and she made a point of writing in the simple demotic used by the children themselves.\n\nHer first two books \"For the Fatherland\" (\"Gia tin Patrida\" (1909)) and \"In the Time of the Bulgar-Slayer\" (\"Ton Kairo tou Voulgaroktonou\" (1911)) are adventures set among the defenders of the Macedonian frontier in the heroic days of the Orthodox Byzantine Empire. With a theme like this she could hardly be accused of spreading atheism or undermining the nation, and she was allowed to publish freely. Her work became immensely popular, and accustomed a generation of Greek children to reading demotic prose for pleasure.\n\nIn 1910 the liberal reformer Eleftherios Venizelos came to power for the first time, and in the same year the was founded. This had a much narrower focus than the defunct National Language Society: the Association aimed at the introduction of demotic into primary education. One of its declared educational goals was \"to render children conscious of the grammatical rules that came unconsciously to their lips ...\". Its founding members included Fotiadis, Delmouzos, many prominent literary figures and some promising young politicians; within a year it also included twenty members of parliament.\n\nAssociation members also questioned the value of spending time teaching Ancient Greek in primary school. Linguist and educationalist Manolis Triantafyllidis (who would later play a major role in producing demotic readers, grammars and dictionaries) argued that \"children emerged from school able to say \"nose\", \"ears\", \"pig\", \"horse\" and \"house\" in Ancient Greek but without having broadened their repertoire of concepts\".\n\nTriantafyllidis, Delmouzos and the philosopher and educationalist Dimitris Glinos soon became the leading lights of the Association, effectively supplanting the diaspora-based group surrounding Psycharis, Eftaliotis and Pallis.\n\nAll this activity inevitably aroused vocal opposition from the \"katharevousa\" establishment, which in 1911 led not only to the closure of the Volos school, but also to the insertion into the new constitution of a clause declaring \"katharevousa\" to be the official language of Greece. Article 107 stated that \"the official language of the State is that in which the constitution and the texts of Greek legislation are drawn up; any intervention aimed at corrupting it is forbidden\". This ingenious wording managed to specify \"katharevousa\" without needing to define it.\n\nIt was during this constitutional debate that Professor , one of the loudest opponents of demotic, produced one of his characteristic denunciations: \"the language of the vulgarists is unusable in both poetry and prose. Since poetry seeks out beauty, the mutilations, the vulgarities and mire of barbaric words are incapable of producing a linguistic work of art, just as one cannot build a Parthenon out of filthy materials.\"\n\nBy contrast Georgios Hatzidakis, Professor of Linguistics at Athens University (and one of the most authoritative linguists of modern Greece), while no less opposed to demoticism, adopted a more considered approach. \"Like other purists, Hatzidakis rejected the claim that there was a common spoken language, arguing that spoken Greek was fragmented into dialects and therefore unsuitable for written communication.\" \"His chief argument against demoticism, however, was a purely conservative one ... He claimed that by his time, \"katharevousa\" had become the written medium of communication throughout the Greek-speaking world, whereas each demoticist wrote in a different language, each of which was characterized by anomalies. After all the efforts of learned Greeks to develop the written language over the centuries, he argued, it would be absurd, if not impossible, to abandon it and start all over again.\"\n\nAgainst this opposition the Association made little progress until 1917. But in the intervening years Greece had greatly expanded its territory in the successful Balkan Wars, and when Venizelos assumed power again in the aftermath of the National Schism his position was strong enough to push through reform. Triantafyllidis, Delmouzos and Glinos were appointed to senior positions in the Ministry of Education. The teaching of Ancient Greek was removed from primary schools. Demotic alone was to be taught in the first four years, and in parallel with \"katharevousa\" in the last two, while new school readers 'in the common spoken (demotic) language' were introduced for the early years.\n\nThis programme was all the more politically acceptable because many felt that reformed primary education would help to integrate the newly conquered Macedonian territories into the Greek nation. In the past, the traditional primary combination of lessons on Ancient Greek, in a classroom using \"katharevousa\", had proved less than effective in Hellenizing non-Greek-speaking populations, even the Arvanite minority settled in the area around Athens itself.\n\nThe 1917 reforms were a turning-point for the language question. Except for a temporary setback in 1920-23, demotic would never again lose its foothold in the first few years of primary education.\n\nIn the adult world too it was now evident that written demotic prose was here to stay, and even its opponents began to give some thought to possible terms of coexistence, with \"katharevousa\" and demotic being allotted separate spheres of influence. In 1911 the parliamentary committee investigating the language question had referred to \"the development of modern \"katharevousa\" as the means for the expression of thought, but simultaneously the evolution and predominance of the vernacular in the expression of emotion\". By 1920 even Hatzidakis was comparing \"the learned written tradition as \"patroparadotos\" (handed down by the father)\" with \"the popular tradition as \"mitrodidaktos\" (taught by the mother). It seemed that the two versions of the language were now competing on much more equal terms than before.\n\nHowever, while the demoticists had already made great progress towards making demotic a universal language by perfecting its \"expression of thought\", the other side was having less success in developing \"expression of emotion\" in \"katharevousa\". \"Outside literature, the purists failed to develop a lively and interesting style, replete with vivid images and metaphors. This condemned non-literary \"katharevousa\" to remain little more than a utilitarian instrument for the expression of facts and ideas, with no creative dimension and no emotional colouring. That is why it was suitable for use as a bureaucratic language. Hatzidakis, for instance, writes in a style that appears to carry the weight of objective academic authority, whereas the discourse of demoticists such as Psycharis is full of both humour and metaphor, and it delights in expressing its authors' emotions.\" (Mackridge 2009 p. 283)\n\nEven in the primary schools, however, the victory of demotic was by no means a foregone conclusion. When Venizelos lost the election of 1920, the educational reforms were temporarily thrown into reverse. The three Association members resigned from the Ministry of Education, and in 1921 a new Ministry committee recommended that the 1917 school textbooks be burned (though in the event they were simply withdrawn). Its report particularly objected to the use in examples of 'vulgar' words such as \"kafes\" for \"coffee\": \"All the mire of the streets, everything foreign, barbaric and vulgar that has ever been introduced into the mouths of the lowest social strata, has been fondly picked up and imposed as the form and model of the language of primary school.\" But this backlash lasted only until 1922, when the disastrous outcome of the Asia Minor Campaign changed the political landscape once more.\n\nOn 21 April 1967 a group of right-wing military officers seized power in a \"coup d'état\" and established the regime of the Colonels. Under the Colonels, the language question entered its final stage. The link between \"katharevousa \"and authoritarian government became stronger than ever, and diglossia was enforced as rigorously as possible. In 1968 \"katharevousa\" was made the official language of the state, including education; demotic was banned from schools except for the first three years of primary classes, and even there the demotic used was altered to make it as much like \"katharevousa\" as possible.\n\nMany academics were dismissed from their posts, including professors at the University of Thessaloniki who were open supporters of demotic.\n\nIn 1972, the Armed Forces General Staff published a widely available free booklet under the title \"National Language\" which extolled the virtues of \"katharevousa\" and condemned demotic as a jargon or slang that did not even possess a grammar. The existing demotic grammar textbooks were dismissed as inconsistent and unteachable, while the demoticists themselves were accused of communism and working to undermine the state.\n\nThis booklet essentially tried to revive the old argument that—even with an expanded vocabulary largely derived from \"katharevousa\"—demotic lacked the sophisticated grammatical structures necessary to express complex meaning; but after a century of demotic prose literature, and indeed sixty years of school textbooks written in demotic, it was hard to make this seem convincing. The booklet itself came to represent what some identified as a \"\"katharevousa\" mentality\", characterized by \"cliches, empty rhetoric, and the pretentious display of lexical and grammatical virtuosity\".\n\n\"Katharevousa\" had by now become so closely identified with the Colonels that when their unpopular regime collapsed in July 1974, support for \"katharevousa\" and enforced diglossia crumbled with it, never to recover. The new democratic government of Konstantinos Karamanlis then set about language reform for one last time.\n\nThe Greek language question was finally laid to rest on 30 April 1976, when Article 2 of Law 309—still written in \"katharevousa\"—stipulated that Modern Greek should be the sole language of education at all levels, starting with the school year 1977–78. This Law defined Modern Greek as:\n\n... the Demotic that has been developed into a Panhellenic instrument of expression by the Greek People and the acknowledged writers of the Nation, properly constructed, without regional and extreme forms.\n\nHowever this demotic was far from the \"vulgar grocers' language\" of two centuries before. It had absorbed elements of \"katharevousa\" and evolved into what is now generally called Standard Modern Greek or SMG (to distinguish it from plain Modern Greek, which covers everything since the fall of Constantinople in 1453). The folksy neologisms popularized by Psycharis had been largely trimmed away again (these were the \"extreme forms\" deprecated in Law 309), and henceforward in SMG new words would usually be coined the \"katharevousa\" way, using ancient models.\n\nThe result has been that with SMG, \"the Greeks of today have the best of both worlds, since their contemporary language offers them potentially the most expressive and productive features of both demotic and \"katharevousa\"\"; and that now \"People can use this language without political implications or personal risk, and the old embarrassment stemming from uncertainty about 'correct' written usage is largely a thing of the past.\"\n\nLaw 309 was effectively irreversible, since it would soon produce a generation who could not even read \"katharevousa\", let alone write or speak it, and this spelled the end for diglossia in Greece. In 1977 SMG was officially recognized as the language of administration, and over the next decade the entire legal system converted to SMG, under the guidance of the \"Committee for Demotic\", chaired by Emmanouil Kriaras.\n\nFinally in 1982 the newly elected socialist government of Andreas Papandreou signed a presidential decree imposing the monotonic written accent system on education. This simplified scheme uses only two diacritical marks: the \"tonos\" ( ΄ ) to mark the stressed vowel, and the diaeresis ( ¨ ) which serves (as in English and French) to indicate separated vowel sounds.\n\nHowever this final change was not universally popular, and some (non-educational) writers and publishers still continue to use the traditional polytonic system, employing up to nine different diacritical marks, often with several in each word and sometimes up to three on the same vowel (for example ᾧ).\n\nThe end of mandatory \"katharevousa\" (and the consequent diglossia) was, however, welcomed by almost all. \"When the reign of \"katharevousa\" came to an end in 1976, many Greeks felt, in their everyday lives, a kind of linguistic liberation and a greater sense of personal and national self-respect at the realization that the language they had imbibed with their mothers' milk was not only something to be cherished but something to be proud of ...\" (Mackridge 2009, p20)\n\nWriters, too, who had switched from \"katharevousa\" to demotic in their work often reported \"... a sense of liberation, a sense that at last they could express themselves freely, without the restrictions of a lexical and grammatical rigidity imposed from outside.\"\n\nBut the effort spent on creating and promoting \"katharevousa\" had not been entirely wasted. \"With hindsight, we can see that the role of \"katharevousa\" was to enrich the written (and to some extent the spoken) language of modern Greece. Yet it had clearly served its linguistic purpose and had begun to outlive its usefulness decades before it ceased to be the official language.\" (Mackridge 2009, Epilogue, p335)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27285956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27285956", "title": "Gyula Ortutay", "text": "Gyula Ortutay\n\nGyula Ortutay (24 March 1910 – 22 March 1978) was a Hungarian ethnographer and politician, who served as Minister of Religion and Education between 1947 and 1950.\n\nBorn in Szabadka (now: \"Subotica\", Serbia) to a Catholic petty bourgeois family. His parents were István Ortutay journalist, editor of the \"Szegedi Napló\" and Ilona Borsodi. He finished his secondary school studies at the piarists in Szeged. After that he attended the Franz Joseph University from 1928. His psychology teacher was Hildebrand Dezső Várkonyi. Soon he was making left-wing friends such as Miklós Radnóti, Gábor Tolnai, Dezső Baróti, Ferenc Erdei, György Buday and Viola Tomori.\n\nHe married to Zsuzsa Kemény, who served as chairperson of the Hungarian Dance Association from 1948, in 1938. They have three children: Mária (psychologist), Tamás (ceramist) and Zsuzsanna (district nurse).\n\nHe got into contact with the communist intellectuals (László Orbán, Gyula Kállai, Ferenc Hont) in the end of the 1930s. but Endre Bajcsy-Zsilinszky had the largest effect on him. From 1942 he participated in the antifascist movements. In the next year he joined to the Independent Smallholders, Agrarian Workers and Civic Party (FKGP). He was Secretary-General of the National Council of The People's Patriotic Front.\n\n"}
{"id": "6441606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6441606", "title": "Handel Medallion", "text": "Handel Medallion\n\nThe Handel Medallion is an American award presented by the City of New York. It is the city's highest award given to individuals for their contribution to the city's intellectual and cultural life.\n\nThe award was first issued in 1959 to Virginia Portia Royall Inness-Brown, upon the 200th anniversary of the death of George Handel (1685–1759), the German-British Baroque composer, noted for his operas, oratorios, anthems and organ concertos. The award was established under New York City Mayor Robert F. Wagner Jr..\n\nYears unknown:\n"}
{"id": "30011410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30011410", "title": "Huatusco (archaeological site)", "text": "Huatusco (archaeological site)\n\nHuatusco is an archaeological site located in the Carrillo Puerto municipality, near the small, almost deserted town of Santiago Huatusco, on the northern bank of the Rio Atoyac in the Rancho El Fortin. The importance of the site due to the nearly undamaged pyramid from prehispanic times, the largest part of the actual temple is still standing, in the state of Veracruz, Mexico.\n\nThe city was a Nahuatl speaking capital and probably an Aztec garrison developed by the name of Cuauhtochco in prehispanic times. Upon the conquest of Mexico, this garrison was defeated in November 1521, after the fall of Tenochtitlan by Gonzalo de Sandoval.\n\nDuring the colonial period the area was of little interest due to the rapid depopulation, a small number of prehispanic religious buildings remain unnoticed and therefore unharmed. While the postclassical pyramid of Castillo de Teayo is well known and frequently visited, probably took visitors from this site to Huatusco, Veracruz. This may be due to site name confusion, because the place where this site is located, Santiago Huatusco, is about 70 km south-east from the city Huatusco also known as Hustusco de Chicuellar. In addition, access to the small settlement of Santiago Huatusco, where the site is located, is rather cumbersome.\n\nThe prehispanic history of Veracruz is complex. It was inhabited primarily by four native cultures. The Huastecos and Otomis occupied the north, while the Totonacs resided in the north-center. The Olmecs, one of the oldest cultures in the Americas, became dominant in the southern part of Veracruz.\n\nRemains of these past civilizations can be found in archeological sites such as Pánuco, Castillo de Teayo, El Zapotal, Las Higueras, Quiahuiztlán, El Tajín, Cempoala, Tres Zapotes and San Lorenzo Tenochtitlán.\n\nThe first major civilization in territory of the current state is that of the Olmecs, whose origin is unknown. Theories vary, including one which has a group of people with Negroid features arriving to Campeche then north to Veracruz over 3,500 years ago. The Olmecs settled in the Coatzacoalcos River region and it became the center of Olmec culture. The main ceremonial center here was San Lorenzo Tenochtitlán. Other major centers in the state include Tres Zapotes in the city of Veracruz and La Venta in Tabasco. The culture reached its height about 2600 years ago, with its best-known artistic expression being the colossal stone heads. These ceremonial sites were the most complex of that early time period. For this reason, many anthropologists consider the Olmec civilization to be the mother culture of the many Mesoamerican cultures that followed it. By 300 BCE, this culture was eclipsed by other emerging civilizations in Mesoamerica.\n\nAnother major group was the Totonacas, who have survived to the present day. Their region, called Totonacapan, is centered between the Cazones River and the Papaloapan River in the north of the state. Pre-Columbian Totonacas lived from hunting fishing and agriculture, mostly of corn, beans, chili peppers and squash. This is also the native region of the vanilla bean. Clay sculptures with smiling faces are indicative of this culture. The major site is El Tajin, located near Papantla, but the culture reached its apogee in Cempoala (about five miles (8 km) inland from the current port of Veracruz), when it was conquered by the Aztecs. When the Spaniards arrived in 1519, the territory was still home to a population of about 250,000 people living in fifty population centers and speaking four Totonac dialects. 25,000 were living in Cempoala alone.\n\nThe Huastecas are in the far north of the Veracruz and extend into parts of Tamaulipas, Hidalgo, San Luis Potosí, Querétaro and Puebla. The language and agricultural techniques of these people and the Maya are similar; however, only a few buildings and ceramics remain from the early Huasteca culture. This culture also reached its peak between 1200 and 1519, when it was conquered by the Spanish.\n\nDuring the 15th and very early 16th century, the Aztecs came to dominate much of the state and dividing it into tributary provinces, of Tochtepec, Cuetlaxtlan, Cempoallan, Quauhtochco, Jalapa, Misantla, and Tlatlauhquitepec. The Aztecs were interested in the areas vegetation and crops such as cedars, fruit, cotton, cacao, corn, beans and vanilla. However, the Totonacs chafed under Aztec rule, with Aztec rulers from Axayacatl to Moctezuma II having to send soldiers to quell rebellions. The Huastecs were subjugated more successfully by the Aztecs and relegated to the provinces of Atlan and Tochpan.\n\nHuatusco or Guatusco, is a deformation of the Nahuatl words Cuauh-tuch-co: cuahuitl; tree, Tuchtli; rabbit, Co; in: “in the place of the rabbit tree”. Natives called “Cuauhtochtli” to a squirrel type living in the trees.\n\nThe 16th-century town of San Antonio Otlaquiquiztla, belonged to the ancient province of Cuauhtochco, whose capital was Santiago Huatusco (today Carrillo Puerto). In time the name Otlaquiquixtla was lost, becoming San Antonio. Since it belonged to the noted province, it was then called San Antonio Huatusco. The region was originally part of the Totonacapan región occupied by the Totonacs, subsequently changed hands over to the historical Olmecs. Around 1454 CE, a son of Netzahualcoyotl conquered the region, including Otlaquiquixtla.\n\nOver a 100 m above the bed of Atoyac River are the ruins on the northern shore. Access from the South is blocked by a well-preserved walls made from round river stones. The site surface is divided into two sections. In the larger northern side, are several largely destroyed buildings and terraces.\n\nThe section is dominated by the central pyramid, a four-stage building, with a low platform to the west side.\n\nThis structure is certainly the best preserved Temple of late postclassical Mesoamerica. A wide, slightly above the actual body of the pyramid is an excellent stairway; it leads to the top of the pyramid platform. There seems to be about 52 steps.\n\nThe remarkably large and well-preserved temple buildings, whose walls measure 7–8 meters while the wall with the wide entrance located at the western side almost completely misses its upper half, probably because the wooden door beams are missing.\n\nThe walls are horizontally divided: the walls are perpendicular to a height of approximately 2.3 meters, then, on a small ledge the walls slope slightly inwards. On a higher cornice rectangular strip, almost covering the entire upper third of the wall is a recess with a niche frieze depicting a “sky full of stars\".\n\nMuch like in Castillo de Teayo, the Interior floors were divided. Huatusco has three roof levels. The lowest level at 2.50 m high is a trend, narrow exposed wooden beams formed a ceiling from east to west, with walls resembling a brick groove. In the middle of the edges, were wooden support beams deeply anchored into the side walls, but also resting on brick pillars projecting from the side walls. The beams were at least twice supported by wooden or brick pillars because of the length of the room. The second level was also formed by parallel beams at intervals of about 1 meter of exposed wooden beams that were embedded in the sidewall. Remains of these beams are still numerous in the wall openings. Also, there was a beam which ran from the center to the north and southeastern side. The third level in turn consisted of a structure probably formed by exposed wooden beams. There are no remains of these beams. Also on this level, which probably had a stuccoed finishing, the side walls continued to the roof to provide lateral support. The second and third floors rooms were not as high as those in the first floor. Whether they had a specific reason or served only to achieve an optical illusion is uncertain.\n\n"}
{"id": "1411955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1411955", "title": "Inalienable possession", "text": "Inalienable possession\n\nIn linguistics, inalienable possession (abbreviated ) is a type of possession in which a noun is obligatorily possessed by its possessor. Nouns or nominal affixes in an inalienable possession relationship cannot exist independently or be \"alienated\" from their possessor. For example, \"a hand\" implies \"(someone's) hand\", even if it is severed from the whole body. Likewise, \"a father\" implies \"(someone's) father\". Inalienable nouns include body parts (such as \"leg\", which is necessarily \"someone's leg\"), kinship terms (such as \"mother\"), and part-whole relations (such as \"top\"). Many languages reflect this distinction, but they vary on how they mark inalienable possession. Cross-linguistically, inalienability correlates with many morphological, syntactic, and semantic properties.\n\nIn general, the alienable–inalienable distinction is an example of a binary possessive class system, a language in which two kinds of possession are distinguished (alienable and inalienable). The alienability distinction is the most common kind of binary possessive class system, but it is not the only one. Some languages have more than two possessive classes. In Papua New Guinea, for example, Anêm has at least 20 classes and Amele has 32.\n\nStatistically, 15–20% of the world's languages have obligatory possession.\n\nThe following real-world relationships often fall under inalienable possession:\nOther things, such as most objects, may or may not be possessed. When such types of objects are possessed, the possession is alienable. Alienable possession is used generally for tangible items that one might cease to own at some point (such as \"my money\"), but inalienable possession generally refers to a perpetual relationship that cannot be readily severed (such as \"my mother\").\n\nAlthough the relationships listed above are likely to be instances of inalienable possession, what is ultimately classified as inalienable depends on conventions, specific to the language and the culture. It is impossible to say that a particular relationship is an example of inalienable possession without specifying the languages for which thar holds true. For example, \"neighbor\" may be an inalienable noun in one language but alienable in another. Thus, whether a certain type of relationship is described as alienable or inalienable can be arbitrary, and in that respect, alienability is similar to other types of noun classes such as grammatical gender.\n\nThe examples below illustrate that the same phrase, \"the table's legs\", is regarded as inalienable possession in Italian but alienable possession in French: (1b) is ungrammatical (as indicated by the asterisk). French cannot use the inalienable possession construction for a relationship that is alienable.\nBernd Heine argues that language change is responsible for the language-specific variability in categorization. That is because \"rather than being a semantically defined category, inalienability is more likely to constitute a morphosyntactic or morphophonological entity, one that owes its existence to the fact that certain nouns happened to be left out when a new pattern for marking attributive possession arose.\" Under his view, nouns that are \"ignored\" by a new marking pattern come to form a separate noun class.\n\nThe distinction between alienable and inalienable possession is often marked by various morphosyntactic properties such as morphological markers and word order. There is a strong typological pattern for inalienable possession to require fewer morphological markers than alienable possession constructions.\n\nInalienable possession constructions involve two nouns or nominals: the possessor and the possessee. Together, they form a unit, called a determiner phrase (DP). Within the DP, the possessor nominal may occur either before the possessee (prenominal) or after its possessee (postnominal), depending on the language. French, for example, can use a postnominal possessor (the possessor \"(of) Jean\" occurs after the possessee \"the arm\"):\n\nBy contrast, English generally uses a prenominal possessor (\"Johns brother\"). However, in some situations, it may also use a postnominal possessor, as in \"the brother of John\".\n\nThe South American language Dâw uses a special possessive morpheme (bold in the examples below) to indicate alienable possession:\nThe possessive morpheme ɛ̃̀ɟ in examples (3) and (4) indicates an alienable relationship between the possessor and the possessee.\n\nThe possessive marker does not occur in inalienable possession constructions. Thus, the absence of ɛ̃̀ɟ, as in example (5), indicates that the relationship between the possessor and possessee is inalienable possession.\n\nIgbo, a West African language, deletes the possessor if the sentence's subject and the possessor of an inalienable noun both refer to the same entity. In (6a), both the referents are the same; however, it is ungrammatical to keep both of them in a sentence. Igbo employs the processes of identical possessor deletion, and the yá (\"his\"), is dropped, as in the grammatical (6b).\n\nThe distinction between alienable and inalienable possession constructions may be marked by a difference in word order. Igbo uses another syntactic process when the subject and the possessor refer to different entities. In possessor switch, the possessor of the inalienable noun is placed as close as possible to the verb. In the following examples, the possessor yá is not deleted because the two referents in the following sentence are different:\nIn the ungrammatical (8a), the verb \"wàra\" (\"to split\") follows the possessor m. Possessor switch requires the verb to be placed closer to the possessor. The grammatical (8b) does so by having \"wàra\" switch with the possessor:\n\nMaybrat, a language from New Guinea, varies the order of the genitive case and the noun between alienable and inalienable constructions:\n\nIn (9), the genitive Sely precedes the possessee me, marking inalienable possession.\n\nHowever, the genitive follows the possessee in alienable possession constructions, such as (10) whose genitive Petrus follows the possessee amah.\nAnother way that languages can distinguish between alienable and inalienable possession is to have one noun class that cannot appear without an explicit possessor. For example, Ojibwe, an Algonquian language, has a class of nouns that must have explicit possessors.\n\nIf explicit possessors are absent (as in (11b) and (12b)), the phrase is ungrammatical. In (11), the possessor ni is necessary for the inalienable noun nik (\"arm\"). In (12), the same phenomenon is found with the inalienable noun ookmis (\"grandmother\"), which requires the possessor morpheme n to be grammatical.\nHawaiian uses different prepositions to mark possession, depending on alienability: a (alienable \"of\") is used to indicate alienable possession, as in (13a) and (14a), and o (inalienable \"of\") indicates inalienable possession.\n\nHowever, the distinction between a (alienable \"of\") and o (inalienable \"of\") is used for other semantic distinctions that are less clearly attributable to common alienability relationships except metaphorically. Although \"lei\" is a tangible object, in Hawaiian it can be either alienable (15a) or inalienable (15b), depending on the context.\n\nSubtler cases of syntactic patterns sensitive to alienability are found in many languages. For example, French can use a definite article, rather than the possessive, for body parts.\nUsing the definite article with body parts, as in the example above, it creates ambiguity. The following sentence has both an alienable and an inalienable interpretation:\nThat type of ambiguity also occurs in English with body part constructions.\n\nSpanish also uses a definite article (las) to indicate inalienable possession for body parts.\nGerman uses a definite article (die) for inalienable body parts but a possessive (meine) for alienable possession.\nAlthough English has alienable and inalienable nouns (\"Mary's brother\" [inalienable] vs. \"Mary's squirrel\" [alienable]), there are few formal distinctions of that in the grammar. One subtle grammatical distinction is the postnominal genitive construction, which is normally used only for inalienable, relational nouns. For example, \"the brother of Mary\" [inalienable] is acceptable, but *\"the squirrel of Mary\" [alienable] would be awkward.\n\nSince the alienability distinction is rooted in semantics, in languages like English with few morphological or syntactic distinctions sensitive to alienability, ambiguities can occur. For example, the phrase \"she has her father's eyes\" has two different meanings:\nAnother example in semantic dependency is the difference between possible interpretations in a language that marks inalienable possession (such as French) with a language that does not mark it (such as English). Inalienable possession is semantically dependent and is defined in reference to another object to which it belongs. (20) is ambiguous and has two possible meanings. In the inalienable possessive interpretation, \"la main\" belongs to the subject, \"les enfants\". The second interpretation is that \"la main\" is an alienable object that does not belong to the subject. The English equivalent of the sentence (\"The children raised the hand\") had only the alienable possessive reading in which the hand does not belong to the children.\n\nSyntactically, Noam Chomsky proposed that some genitive or possessive cases originate as part of the determiner in the underlying structure. The inalienable possessives are derived from a different deep structure than that of alienable possession. For example, given the following interpretations of the phrase \"John's arm\":\nIn the inalienable reading, \"arm\" is a complement of the determiner phrase. That contrasts to the alienable reading in which \"John has an arm\" is part of the determiner. Charles J. Fillmore and Chomsky make a syntactic distinction between alienable and inalienable possession and suggest that the distinction is relevant to English.\n\nIn contrast, others have argued that although semantics plays a role in inalienable possession, it is not central to the syntactic class of case-derived possessives. For example, compare the difference between \"the book's contents\" and \"the book's jacket\". While a book cannot be divorced from its contents, it can be removed from its jacket. Still, both phrases have the same syntactic structure. Another example is \"Mary's mother\" and \"Mary's friend.\" The mother will always be Mary's mother, but an individual might not always be Mary's friend. Again, both have the same syntactic structure.\n\nThe distinction between alienable and inalienable possessions can be influenced by cognitive factors. Languages such as English that do not encode the alienability distinction in their grammar rely on the real-world relationship between the possessed noun and possessor noun. Nouns that are \"inherently relational\" and whose possession is associated with a single, dominant interpretation (\"mother\"), are of the inalienable type, and nouns whose possession is open to interpretation (\"car\") are of the alienable type.\n\nAlthough there are different methods of marking inalienability, inalienable possession constructions usually involve the following features:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(Heine 1997: 85-86 (1-6))\n\nAlienability can be expressed only in attributive possession constructions, not in predicative possession.\n\nAttributive possession is a type of possession in which the possessor and possessee form a phrase. That contrasts to predicative possession constructions in which the possessor and possessee are part of a clause and the verb affirms the possessive relationship. The examples in (21) express the same alienable relationship between possessor and possessee but illustrate the difference between attributive and predicative possession:\n\nIf a language has separate alienable and inalienable possession constructions, and if one of the constructions is overtly marked and the other is \"zero-marked\", the marked form tends to be alienable possession. Inalienable possession is indicated by the absence of the overt marker. An example is the data from Dâw.\n\nOne typological study showed that in 78% of South American languages that distinguish between inalienable and alienable possession, inalienable possession was associated with fewer morphological markers than its alienable counterpart. By contrast, only one of the surveyed languages required more morphological features to mark inalienable possession than alienable possession. If a language makes a grammatical distinction between alienable and inalienable nouns, it is redundant to have an overt possessive marker to mark inalienability. Just by being inalienable, a noun must be possessed.\n\nIn inalienable possession constructions, the relationship between the possessor and possesee is stronger than in alienable possession constructions. Johanna Nichols characterizes that by the tendency of inalienable possession to be head-marked but alienable possession to be dependent-marked. In head-marking, the head of an inalienable possession construction (the possessed noun) is marked, but in dependent-marking, the dependent (the possessor noun) is marked.\n\nSince the possessor is crucially linked to an inalienable noun's meaning, inalienable nouns are assumed to take their possessors as a semantic argument. Possessors (to either alienable or inalienable nouns) can be expressed with different constructions. Possessors in the genitive case (such as \"the friend of Mary\") appear as complements to the possessed noun, as part of the phrase headed by the inalienable noun. That is an example of internal possession since the possessor of the noun is inside of the determiner phrase.\n\nInalienable possession can also be marked with external possession. Such are constructions have the possessor appearing outside the determiner phrase. For example, the possessor may appear as a dative complement of the verb.\n\nFrench exhibits both external possessor construction and internal possessor construction, as in (22):\nHowever, those types of possessors are problematic. There is a discrepancy between the possessor appearing syntactically in an inalienable possession construction and what its semantic relationship to the inalienable noun seems to be. Semantically, the possessor of an inalienable noun is intrinsic to its meaning and acts like a semantic argument. On the surface syntactic structure, however, the possessor appears in a position that marks it as an argument of the verb. Thus, there are different views on how those types of inalienable possession constructions should be represented in the syntactic structure. The binding hypothesis argues that the possessor is an argument of the verb. Conversely, the possessor-raising hypothesis argues that the possessor originates as an argument of the possessed noun and then moves to a position in which on the surface, it looks like it is an argument of the verb.\n\nThe binding hypothesis reconciles the fact that the possessor appears both as a syntactic and semantic argument of the verb but as a semantic argument of the possessed noun. It assumes that inalienable possession constructions are subject to the following syntactic constraints:\nIt is assumed that inalienable possession constructions are one form of anaphoric binding: obligatory control. Thus, the possessor DP originates in the specifier of the verb; the fact that the possessor seems to be a semantic argument of the noun arises from the binding relationship between the possessor and possessee DPs. The parallel between inalienable possession constructions and obligatory control can be seen in the examples below:\nThat hypothesis accounts for differences between French and English, and it may also eliminate the ambiguity created by definite determiners. According to this hypothesis, anaphoric binding in inalienable possession constructions relates to the theta-features that a language assigns to its determiners. Thay hypothesis predicts that inalienable possession constructions exist in languages that assign variable theta-features to its determiners and that inalienable possession constructions do not exist in languages that lack variable theta-feature assignment. Therefore, inalienable possession is predicted to exist in Romance languages and even Russian but not in languages like English or Hebrew. In the French sentence \"Il lève les mains\", the determiner \"les\" is assigned theta-features. Thus, it is understood as inalienable possession. However, in the English translation, the determiner \"the\" does not have theta-features because English is considered does not assign theta-features to its determiners. Therefore, \"the\" does not necessarily signify inalienable possession and so ambiguity surfaces.\n\nThat hypothesis, however, does not account for verbs allowing reflexive anaphora (\"Jean se\" lave 'Jean washes himself'). To account for the grammaticality of such verbs, Guéron proposes that in an inalienable construction the POSS DP (possessor DP) and BP DP (body part DP) constitute two links of a lexical chain, in addition to their anaphoric relation. The two links of a lexical chain must obey the same constraints as anaphora, which accounts for the locality restrictions on inalienable construals. Every chain is then associated with one theta-role. Inalienable possession surfaces as ungrammatical when the possessed DP and the possessor DP are assigned two different theta-roles by the verb. That explains why sentence (24b) is ungrammatical. The POSS DP is assigned an agent theta-role, anf the BP DP is assigned a theme theta-role.\nPossessor-raising is a syntactic hypothesis that attempts to explain the structures of inalienable DPs. Landau argues that the possessor is initially introduced in the specifier position of DP (Spec-DP), but it later raises to the specifier of the VP. The possessor DP gets its theta-role from the head D, and that gives rise to the meaning that the possessor is related to the possessee.\n\nLandau's analysis is made on the basis of several properties possessives in the data case in Romance languages.\n\nThe French data below illustrate how that is thought to work. The possessor \"lui\" originates in the specifier of DP as an argument of the noun \"figure\". That is equivalent to an underlying structure \"Gilles a lavé lui la figure.\" The possessor raises to the specifier of VP, which is seen in the surface structure \"Gilles lui a lavé la figure.\"\n\nAccording to Guéron, a benefit of the hypothesis is that it is consistent with principles of syntactic movement such as locality of selection and c-command. If the position to which it needs to move is already filled, as with a transitive verb like \"see\", the possessor cannot raise, and the sentence is correctly predicted to be ungrammatical.\n\nHowever, some languages such as Russian do not have to raise the DP possessor and can leave it \"in situ\", making it unclear why the possessor would ever have to raise. Possessor-raising also violates a constraint on syntactic movement, the specificity constraint: an element cannot be moved out of a DP if that DP is specific. In (23), the DP \"lui\" is specific, yet possessor-raising predicts it can be moved out of the larger DP \"lui la figure\". Such movement is excluded by the specificity constraint.\n\nInalienable possession constructions often lack overt possessors. There is a debate as to how to account for the linguistically-universal difference in form. Iconicity explains the in terms of the relationship between the conceptual distance between the possessor and possessee, and economy explains it by the frequency of possession.\n\nHaiman describes iconic expression and conceptual distance and how both concepts are conceptually close if they share semantic properties, affect each other and cannot be separated from each other. Joseph Greenberg hypothesizes that the distance between the possessor and possessee in a sentence with alienable possession is greater than in a sentence with inalienable constructions. Because the possessor and the possessee have a close conceptual relationship, their relative positions with a sentence reflect thay and there is little distance between them. Increasing the distance between the two would, in turn, increase their conceptual independence.\n\nThat is demonstrated in Yagaria, a Papuan language. It marks alienable possession by a free form pronoun as in (27a). In contrast, inalienable possession constructions use an inalienable possessor prefixed on the possessee, as in (27b). That construction has less linguistic distance between the possessor and possessee than in the alienable construction:\nHowever, there are cases of linguistic distance not necessarily reflecting conceptual distance. In Mandarin Chinese, there are two ways to express the same type of possession, POSSESSOR + POSSESSEE and POSSESSOR + de + POSSESSEE; the latter has more linguistic distance between the possessor and possessee, but it reflects the same conceptual distance. Both possessive expressions, with and without the marker de, are found in the Mandarin phrase \"my friend\", seen in (28a) compared to (28b):\n\nIn contrast to the previous example, the omission of the marker \"de\" is ungrammatical, as in example (29b). The linguistic distance between the possessor and possessee is much smaller in (29b) than in (29a). It has been argued that the omission of \"de\" occurs only in kinship relationships, but phrasal constructions with a mandatory \"de\" encompasses other inalienable possession examples, such as body parts. That contradicts the notion that inalienable possession is marked by less linguistic distance between the possessor and possessee.\nNichols notes that frequently-possessed nouns, such as body parts and kinship terms, almost always occur with possessors, and alienable nouns occur with possessors less often.\n\nThe following shows the frequency of possession between alienable and unalienable nouns in German. The table below shows the number of times each noun occurred with or without a possessor in texts from the German Goethe-Corpus, the works by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.\nThe alienable nouns above are rarely possessed, but the inalienable kinship terms are frequently possessed. Consequently, inalienable nouns are expected to be possessed even if they lack a distinct possessive marker. Therefore, overt markings on inalienable nouns are redundant, and to employ economical syntactic construction, languages often zero-mark their inalienable nouns.\n\nThat could be explained by Zipf's Law in which the familiarity or the frequency of an occurrence motivates the linguistic simplification of the concept. A listener who hears an inalienable noun can predict that it will be possessed, thereby eliminating the need for an overt possessor.\n\nOld Rapa is the indigenous language of Rapa Iti, an island of French Polynesia located within its Bass Islands archipelago. Within the language structure of Rapa are two primary possessive particles, a and o. The usage of the two particles is dependent on the relation between the possessor and the object. When words of the language are categorized by possessive particles, there is a very close resemblance to the usage of the possessive particle and the object's alienability. However, this relation is better defined by William Wilson in his article \"Proto-Polynesian Possessive Marking\".\n\nBriefly, through his two theories, the Simple Control Theory and Initial Control Theory, Wilson can contrast and thus better define the usage of the possessive particles, a and o. The Simple Control Theory speculates that the determining factor directly correlated to the possessor’s control over the object; emphasizing a dominant vs. less-dominant relationship. Old Rapa adheres closer to the latter of Wilson's two theories, the Initial Control Theory, which speculates that \"the possessor's control over the initiation of the possessive relationship is the determining factor.\" Here, his Initial Control Theory can also be generally expanded to the whole Polynesian language family in terms of better describing the \"alienability\" of possession.\n\nIn the case of Old Rapa, the possession particle, o, is used to define a possession relationship that was not initiated on the basis of choice. The possession particle, a, is defines possession relationships that are initiated through the possessor's control. The following list and classifications are literal examples provided by Mary Walworth, in her dissertation of the Rapa language. Words that are marked with the o possessive markers are nouns that are:\nHowever, Wilson's theory does fall short in properly categorizing a few miscellaneous items such as articles of clothing and furniture that his theory would incorrectly predict to be marked with an a-possessive particle. The reverse would occur forobjects such as food and animals. The synthesis of Wilson's theory and other approach a better understanding of the Rapa language. Svenja Völkel proposed the idea of looking further into the ritualistic beliefs of the community, namely their mana. That idea has been relatable to other languages in the Eastern Polynesian language family, and it states that objects that possess less mana than the possessor are indicated with the a-possessive particle, and the usage of the o-possessive marker is reserved for the possessor’s mana not being superior.\n\nThe same usage of the possessive particles, a and o, in possessive pronouns can be seen in the contracted portmanteau, the combination of the articles and possessive markers. The resultants are the tō and tā prefixes in the following possessive pronouns, as can be seen in the table below:\nWuvulu language is a small language spoken in Wuvulu Island. Direct possession has a close relationship with inalienability in the Oceanic linguistics. Similarly, the inherent possession of the possessor is called the possessum.\n\nThe inalienable noun also has a possessor suffix and includes body parts, kin terms, locative part nouns, and derived nouns. According to Hafford's research, \"-u\" (my), \"-mu\" (your) and \"na-\"（his/her/its) are three direct possession suffix in Wuvulu.\nDirect- possession suffix \"-u\"(my), \"-mu\" (your) and \"na-\"（his/her/its) can be taken to attach the noun phrase of body part.\n\nKin terms in Wuvulu language take singular possessive suffixes.\n\nExample:\n\nʔei wareamu (Your word) is derived from the verb ware (talk)\n\nThis kind of word can take the direct possessor suffix. \"-mu\" (your {singular])\n\nfaʔua, ʔei ware-a-mu\n\ntrue the talk-DER-2SG\n\nYour words are true.\n\nHere is a table displaying the predicative possessive pronouns in Tokelauan:\n\nHere is a table showing Tokelauan premodifying possessive pronouns:\n\n"}
{"id": "197639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197639", "title": "Inquisitorial system", "text": "Inquisitorial system\n\nAn inquisitorial system is a legal system where the court or a part of the court is actively involved in investigating the facts of the case, as opposed to an adversarial system where the role of the court is primarily that of an impartial referee between the prosecution and the defense. Inquisitorial systems are used primarily in countries with civil legal systems as opposed to common law systems. Countries using common law, including the United States, may use an inquisitorial system for summary hearings in the case of misdemeanors such as minor traffic violations. The distinction between an adversarial and inquisitorial system is theoretically unrelated to the distinction between a civil legal and common law system. Some legal scholars consider \"inquisitorial\" misleading, and prefer the word nonadversarial. The function is often vested in the office of the public procurator, as in China, Japan, Germany, and Scotland.\n\nIn an inquisitorial system, the trial judges (mostly plural in serious crimes) are inquisitors who actively participate in fact-finding public inquiry by questioning defense, prosecutors and witnesses. They could even order certain pieces of evidence to be examined if they find presentation by the defense or prosecution to be inadequate.\n\nThe inquisitorial system applies to questions of criminal procedure, not substantive law; that is, it determines how criminal inquiries and trials are conducted, not the kind of crimes for which one can be prosecuted or the sentences that they carry. It is most readily used in some civil legal systems. However, some jurists do not recognize this dichotomy and see procedure and substantive legal relationships as being interconnected and part of a theory of justice as applied differently in various legal cultures.\n\nIn an adversarial system, judges focus on the issues of law and procedure and act as a referee in the contest between the defense and the prosecutor. Juries decide matters of fact, and sometimes matters of the law. Neither judge nor jury can initiate an inquiry, and judges rarely ask witnesses questions directly during trial. In some American jurisdictions, it is common practice for jurors to submit questions to the court that they feel were not resolved in direct or cross-examination. After testimony and other evidence are presented and summarized in arguments, the jury will declare a verdict (literally: \"the spoken truth\") and in some jurisdictions the reasoning behind the verdict. However, the discussions among jurors cannot be made public except in extraordinary circumstances. Appeals on the basis of factual issues, such as sufficiency of the sum total of evidence that was properly admitted, are subject to a standard of review that is in most jurisdictions heavily deferential to the judgment of the fact-finder at trial, be that a judge or a jury. The failure of a prosecutor to disclose evidence to the defense, for example, or a violation of the defendant's constitutional rights (legal representation, right to remain silent, an open and public trial) can trigger a dismissal or re-trial. In some adversarial jurisdictions (e.g., the United States), a prosecutor cannot appeal a \"not guilty\" verdict (absent corruption or gross malfeasance by the court).\n\nIn adversarial systems, the defendant may plead \"guilty\" or \"no contest\" in exchange for reduced sentences, a practice known as plea bargaining, which is an extremely common practice in the United States. In theory, the defendant must allocute or \"voice\" his or her crimes in open court, and the judge must believe the defendant is telling the truth about his or her guilt. In an inquisitorial system, a mere confession of guilt would not be regarded as ground for a guilty verdict, and the prosecutor is required to provide evidence supporting a guilty verdict; however, this requirement is not unique to inquisitorial systems, as many or most adversarial systems impose a similar requirement under the name \"corpus delicti\".\n\nUntil the development of the Medieval Inquisition in the 12th century, the legal systems used in medieval Europe generally relied on the adversarial system to determine whether someone should be tried and whether a person was guilty or innocent. Under this system, unless people were caught in the act of committing crimes, they could not be tried until they had been formally accused by their victim, the voluntary accusations of a sufficient number of witnesses, or by an inquest (an early form of grand jury) convened specifically for that purpose. A weakness of this system was that because it relied on the voluntary accusations of witnesses, and because the penalties for making a false accusation were severe, victims and would-be witnesses could be hesitant to actually make their accusations to the court, for fear of implicating themselves. Because of the difficulties in deciding cases, procedures such as trial by ordeal or combat were accepted.\n\nBeginning in 1198, Pope Innocent III issued a series of decretals that reformed the ecclesiastical court system. Under the new (inquisitional procedure) an ecclesiastical magistrate no longer required a formal accusation to summon and try a defendant. Instead, an ecclesiastical court could summon and interrogate witnesses of its own initiative, and if the (possibly secret) testimony of those witnesses accused a person of a crime, that person could then be summoned and tried. In 1215, the Fourth Council of the Lateran affirmed the use of the inquisitional system. The council also forbade clergy from conducting trials by ordeal or combat. As a result, in parts of continental Europe, the ecclesiastical courts operating under the inquisitional procedure became the dominant method by which disputes were adjudicated. In France, the — lay courts — also employed inquisitorial proceedings.\n\nIn England, however, King Henry II had established separate secular courts during the 1160s. While the ecclesiastical courts of England, like those on the continent, adopted the inquisitional system, the secular common law courts continued to operate under the adversarial system. The adversarial principle that a person could not be tried until formally accused continued to apply for most criminal cases. In 1215 this principle became enshrined as article 38 of the Magna Carta: \"No bailiff for the future shall, upon his own unsupported complaint, put anyone to his law, without credible witnesses brought for this purposes.\"\n\nThe first territory to wholly adapt the inquisitional system was the Holy Roman Empire. The new German legal process was introduced as part of the of 1498 and then the of 1507. The adoption of the ( of Charles V) in 1532 made inquisitional procedures empirical law. It was not until Napoleon introduced the of the French code of criminal procedure on November 16, 1808, that the classical procedures of inquisition were ended in all German territories.\n\nIn the development of modern legal institutions which occurred in the 19th century, for the most part jurisdictions did not only codify their private law and criminal law, but the rules of civil procedure were reviewed and codified as well. It was through this movement that the role of an inquisitorial system became enshrined in most European civilian legal systems. However, there exist significant differences of operating methods and procedures between 18th century courts and 19th-century courts. In particular, limits on the powers of investigators were typically added, as well as increased rights of the defense.\n\nIt would be too much of a generalization to state that the civil law is purely inquisitorial and the common law adversarial. Indeed, the ancient Roman custom of arbitration has now been adapted in many common law jurisdictions to a more inquisitorial form. In some mixed civil law systems such as those in Scotland, Quebec, and Louisiana, while the substantive law is civil in nature and evolution, the procedural codes that have developed over the last several hundred years are based upon the English adversarial system.\n\nThe main feature of the inquisitorial system in criminal justice in France and other countries functioning along the same lines is the function of the examining or investigating judge (\"juge d'instruction\"). The examining judge conducts investigations into serious crimes or complex inquiries. As a member of the judiciary, he or she is independent and outside the province of the executive branch, and therefore separate from the Office of Public Prosecutions which is supervised by the Minister of Justice.\n\nDespite high media attention and frequent TV portrayals, examining judges are actually active in only a small minority of cases. In 2005, there were 1.1 million criminal rulings in France, while only 33,000 new cases were investigated by judges. The vast majority of cases are therefore investigated directly by law enforcement agencies (police, gendarmerie) under the supervision of the Office of Public Prosecutions (\"procureurs\").\n\nExamining judges are used for serious crimes, e.g., murder and rape, and for crimes involving complexity, such as embezzlement, misuse of public funds, and corruption. The case may be brought before the examining judge either by the public prosecutor (\"procureur\") or, more rarely, by the victim (who may compel an \"instruction\" even if the public prosecutor rules the charges to be insufficient).\n\nThe judge questions witnesses, interrogates suspects, and orders searches for other investigations. Their role is not to prosecute the accused, but to gather facts, and as such their duty is to look for any and all evidence (\"à charge et à décharge\"), incriminating or exculpatory. Both the prosecution and the defense may request the judge to act and may appeal the judge's decisions before an appellate court. The scope of the inquiry is limited by the mandate given by the prosecutor's office: the examining judge cannot open a criminal investigation sua sponte.\n\nIn the past the examining judge could order committal of the accused, this power being subject to appeal. However, this is no longer the case, and other judges have to approve a committal order.\n\nIf the examining judge decides there is a valid case against a suspect, the accused is sent for adversarial trial by jury. The examining judge does not sit on the trial court which tries the case and is in fact prohibited from sitting for future cases involving the same defendant. The case is tried before the court in a manner similar to that of adversarial courts: the prosecution (and on occasion a plaintiff) seeks the conviction of accused criminals, the defense attempts to rebut the prosecution claims, and the judge and jury draw their conclusions from the evidence presented at trial.\n\nAs a result of judicial investigation and defendants being able to have judicial proceedings dismissed on procedural grounds during the examining phase, cases where the evidence is weak tend not to reach the trial stage. Conversely, the guilty plea and plea bargaining were until recently unknown to French law, and now it only applies to crimes for which the prosecution seeks a sentence not exceeding one year imprisonment. Therefore, most cases go to trial, including cases where the prosecution is almost sure to gain a conviction, whereas, in countries such as the United States, these would be settled by plea bargain.\n\nIn administrative courts such as the Council of State, litigation proceedings are markedly more inquisitorial. Most of the procedure is conducted in writing; the plaintiff writes to the court, which asks explanations from the administration or public service concerned; when answered, the court may then ask further detail from the plaintiff, etc. When the case is sufficiently complete, the lawsuit opens in court; however, the parties are not even required to attend the court appearance. This method reflects the fact that administrative lawsuits are for the most part about matters of formal procedure and technicalities.\n\nCertain administrative proceedings within some common law jurisdictions in the United States may be similar to their civil law counterparts but are conducted on a more inquisitorial model. For instance tribunals dealing with minor traffic violations at the New York City Traffic Violations Bureau are held before an adjudicator who also functions as a prosecutor. They question witnesses before rendering judgements and setting fines.\n\nThese types of tribunals or boards function as an expedited form of justice where the state agents conduct an initial investigation and the adjudicator's job is to confirm these preliminary findings through a simplified form of procedure that grants some basic amount of due process or fundamental justice in which the accused party has an opportunity to place his or her objections on the record.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2960321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2960321", "title": "Institute of Conservation", "text": "Institute of Conservation\n\nThe Institute of Conservation (Icon) is a charity and the professional body for conservators and restorers in the United Kingdom. It has over three thousand members, including professional conservators working with heritage objects and buildings. \n\nIcon was formed in 2005 as a result of a merger between five smaller bodies: The United Kingdom Institute for Conservation, The Institute of Paper Conservation, The Scottish Society for Conservation and Restoration, the Photographic Materials Conservation Group and the Care of Collections Forum. These five organisations were known collectively as the 'Vanguard Bodies' of the National Council for Conservation-Restoration (NCCR). In 2006 a sixth organisation, the Institute of Conservation Science, which had not been part of the NCCR, merged into Icon.\n\nSeven other bodies which were also members of the NCCR opted not to merge into Icon in 2005. These were:\n\n"}
{"id": "59038609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59038609", "title": "Ivor Llewellyn Brace", "text": "Ivor Llewellyn Brace\n\nSir Ivor Llewellyn Brace (died October 1952) was a British colonial judge. In 1951, he became the first Chief Justice of the combined judiciary of Sarawak, North Borneo and Brunei. He served in this position until his death. \n\nBrace was the younger of two sons of William Brace and Nellie Humphreys.\n\n"}
{"id": "44181142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44181142", "title": "James Whatman Bosanquet", "text": "James Whatman Bosanquet\n\nJames Whatman Bosanquet (1804–1877) was an English banker and writer on biblical chronology.\n\nHe was son of the banker Samuel Bosanquet (1768–1843) and his wife Laetitia Philippa Whatman of Kent, born 10 January 1804; Samuel Richard Bosanquet was his elder brother. He was educated at Westminster School, and at the age of 18 entered Bosanquet, Salt, & Co., the family bank. In due course he became a partner.\n\nA contributor to the \"Transactions of the Society of Biblical Archæology\", Bosanquet subsidised its publication; and he also supported other works on Assyriology. He died 22 December 1877.\n\nBosanquet was known as a writer on biblical and Assyrian chronology:\n\n\nHis earliest publications, related to finance, were \"Metallic, Paper, and Credit Currency\", 1842, and a \"Letter to the Right Hon. G. Cornewall Lewis on the Bank Charter Act of 1844\", 1857.\nBosanquet married three times:\n\n\nBernard Bosanquet the cricketer was a grandson.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "1304027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1304027", "title": "Kenneth Maxwell", "text": "Kenneth Maxwell\n\nKenneth Robert Maxwell (born 1941) is a British historian who specializes in Iberia and Latin America. A longtime member of the Council on Foreign Relations, for fifteen years he headed its Latin America Studies Program. His May 13, 2004 resignation from the council involved a major controversy over whether there had been a breach of the so-called \"church-state separation\" between the council itself and its magazine \"Foreign Affairs\". , Maxwell is a Visiting Professor of History at Harvard University and a senior fellow at the university's David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, where he directs the Center's Brazil Studies Program.\n\nMaxwell wrote a review in \"Foreign Affairs\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> November/December 2003 of Peter Kornbluh's book \"The Pinochet File: A Declassified Dossier on Atrocity and Accountability\". The review was written in his capacity as a scholar, independently of his role as an employee of the Council. Maxwell's review was, in part, critical of Henry Kissinger's relationship with the regime of Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet. Maxwell claims that key Council on Foreign Relations acting at Kissinger's behest put pressure on \"Foreign Affairs\" editor, James Hoge, to give the last word in a subsequent exchange about the review to William D. Rogers, a close associate of Kissinger's, rather than to Maxwell; this went against established \"Foreign Affairs\" policy.\n\nThe core subject matter of the abruptly terminated exchange was Operation Condor: the campaign of assassination and intelligence-gathering conducted jointly by the security services of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay in the mid-1970s. Discussion turned particularly on the 1976 assassination of Orlando Letelier in Washington, DC.\n\nMaxwell had long been something of a public figure before what he refers to as \"The Case of the Missing Letter... a Nixonian drama in four acts: preemption, suppression, and cover-up followed by denial\" [Maxwell 2004, 1], brought him to far wider attention. Maxwell's review in \"Foreign Affairs\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> November/December 2003 of Kornbluh's \"The Pinochet File\" occasioned a letter to \"Foreign Affairs\" from Rogers; that letter and Maxwell's reply were published in the January/February 2004 issue. Maxwell characterizes Rogers' letter as a \"counter review\", and claims to have evidence that much of it had circulated previously to Maxwell's own review in \"Foreign Affairs\", and that allusions to Maxwell's review were simply pasted in so that it would appear more relevant. [Maxwell 2004, 7]\n\nRogers wrote again, accusing Maxwell of \"bias\". This letter was published in the March/April 2004 issue. Contrary to all precedent a \"Foreign Affairs\", Maxwell was not given the right to reply. He claims that \"serious misrepresentations of historical fact and \"ad hominem\" accusations of bias\" were thus allowed \"to stand unchallenged\" and that \"This converted a controversy over the historical record into a suppression of free debate.\" [Maxwell 2004, 2]\n\nThe matter has had little further discussion in \"Foreign Affairs\"; the September/October 2004 issue contains a letter of protest signed by Harvard Professor John Coatsworth and ten other scholars of Latin America, all members of the Council on Foreign Relations; it also contains a reply from James Hoge. Characterizing Maxwell's original review as \"balanced and thoughtful\", they describe themselves as \"dismayed by the tone and the content\" of Rogers' letters and \"appalled by the journal’s decision not to publish a response by Maxwell\". [quoted at Maxwell, 2004, 3] Their original letter ended with the sentence, \"We urge you to find an appropriate way to repair this lapse before it becomes a permanent stain on the reputation of \"Foreign Affairs\"\". The magazine did not see fit to include this sentence and, in what Maxwell claims was another unprecedented decision, the \"Letters to the Editor\" section of the September/October 2004 issue has not been posted in the magazine’s online edition. [Maxwell, 2004, 3]\n\nHoge has publicly denied that any of this was due to direct or indirect pressure from Kissinger, Rogers, or their associates. Maxwell's paper \"The Case of the Missing Letter...\" lays out extensive evidence to that it was, indeed, due to such pressure. He cites Peter G. Peterson, chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations, as confirming in an interview for \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" that he communicated Kissinger's anger to Hoge. Further pressure may have been put by Maurice (\"Hank\") Greenberg, vice chairman emeritus of the Council's board. Maxwell sent emails in December 2004 mentioning pressure from Greenberg; this was before he was aware of Hoge's intent to give Rogers the last word. [Maxwell, 2004, 11-12] Peterson and Greenberg were both major donors to the Council; between them they were directly or indirectly responsible for $34 million in donations. Both had helped endow Hoge's chair. [Maxwell, 2004, 16]\n\nAll parties agree that Kissinger did not express his displeasure directly to Hoge; in fact, Maxwell quotes Hoge as saying in January 2004, \"Henry will not speak to me or shake my hand,\" but that he was \"called and 'sworn at for half an hour' by Greenberg\". [Maxwell, 2004, 14]\n\nAfter the Rogers letter was published without Maxwell being given the right of reply, Maxwell stayed several months in his job working for the Council, continuing a lengthy exchange with Hoge, hoping to be allowed a belated reply in \"Foreign Affairs\", and arranging a new job at Harvard. His letter of resignation read, in part, \"I have no personal ax to grind in this matter, but I do have a historian's obligation to the accuracy of the historical record. The Council's current relationship with Mr. Kissinger evidently comes at the cost of suppressing debate about his actions as a public figure. This I want no part of.\" [Maxwell, 2004, 4]\n\nAll of this would provide little more than a moderately interesting insight into the inner workings of an influential institution, were it not for the historical subject matter that occasioned the dispute: Kissinger's possible role in the 1970 assassination of Chilean General René Schneider and in the Chilean coup of 1973, and Kissinger's possible relationship to Operation Condor. Kornbluh is the lead researcher on Chile at the National Security Archive (NSA), a research group at George Washington University. NSA has been the leader in using Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests to obtain U.S. government documents related to the U.S. role in Chile in the 1970s, and his book dealt in large part with what can be learned from these documents.\n\nWhen Kornbluh's book came out, Kissinger and Rogers attempted to get \"Foreign Affairs\" to run an article by Mark Falcoff of the American Enterprise Institute minimizing Kissinger's role in the events in Chile. \"Foreign Affairs\" rejected the article. According to Maxwell, Hoge found it \"too narrow a defense of Kissinger,\" and then asked Maxwell to write a review. (Falcoff's rejected article was subsequently published in \"Commentary\" as \"Kissinger & Chile: The Myth That Will Not Die.\") Maxwell points out several places in which Falcoff misquoted documents in ways favorable to Kissinger, for example changing a remark of Kissinger's, talking to Nixon on the phone about the coup, from \"Well we didn't – as you know – our hand doesn’t show on this one though,\" to simply \"We didn't do it.\" [Maxwell, 2004, 5]\n\nMaxwell argues that \"Foreign Affairs\" has attempted to whitewash even the nature of the historical controversy: \"In \"his\" editorial response Hoge claims that Kissinger's and Rogers' unhappiness was prompted by the 'damaging implication' in my review that 'Rogers and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger had contributed to the creation of a permissive environment for political violence by the Chilean government under Augusto Pinochet.' This was not the issue at the center of the controversy. In fact, I can think of very few objective historians who would dissent from such an overall assessment.\" He points out that this conclusion was reached as early as the Church Committee in the 1970s and that even a \"heavily hedged\" 2000 report from the CIA states, \"Although the CIA did not instigate the coup that ended Allende's government on 11 September 1973, it was aware of the plotting by the military, had ongoing intelligence collection relationships with some plotters and – because the CIA did not discourage the takeover and had sought to instigate a coup in 1970 – probably appeared to condone it.\" [Maxwell, 2004, 17]\n\nParamount among the specific matters at issue: Maxwell points out that U.S. policymakers were aware not only of Operation Condor in general, but in particular \"...that a Chilean assassination team had been planning to enter the United States.\" A month before the Letelier assassination, Kissinger ordered \"... that the Latin American rulers involved be informed that the 'assassination of subversives, politicians and prominent figures both within the national borders of certain Southern Cone countries and abroad ... would create a most serious moral and political problem.'\" Maxwell wrote in his review of Kornbluh's book, \"This demarche was apparently not delivered: the U.S. embassy in Santiago demurred on the ground that to deliver such a strong rebuke would upset the dictator,\" and that on September 20, 1976, the day before Letelier and his assistant Ronni Moffitt were killed, \"the State Department instructed the ambassadors 'to take no further action' with regard to the Condor scheme.\" [Maxwell, 2004, 18]\n\nRogers, in his first response, refers to \"...the stern human rights warning Kissinger delivered directly to Pinochet at their only meeting... \" (the meeting took place in Santiago June 8, 1976), points to \"...Kissinger’s statement, made in an address to the region’s foreign ministers, that the regime's human rights violations '[had] impaired our relationship with Chile and [would] continue to do so,'\" and that \"Kissinger’s warning was delivered in robust fashion to the Argentine president–there are cables to prove it...–and probably to Pinochet’s underlings in Santiago,\" and claims that Kissinger did not send, and probably did not even see, the \"take no further action\" cable. [Maxwell, 2004, 18–19] [Rogers and Maxwell, 2004]. Declassified documents obtained and posted by the National Security Archive on April 10, 2010 confirm that Kissinger sent a cable to his assistant secretary of state for Inter-American affairs on September 16, 1976 rescinding delivery of the Condor demarche and terminating diplomatic efforts to warn the Condor military regimes against planned assassinations. These declassified documents definitively contradict Kissinger's and Roger's account and confirm that Kissinger was not only aware of the rescission of the Condor demarche but personally responsible for it.\n\nWith reference to the human rights speech, Maxwell argues in reply, that Kissinger there is clear documentary evidence that Kissinger \"...personally assured Pinochet that he was giving it for U.S. domestic consumption,\" and quotes the notes from a meeting at which Rogers was present to validate this. He further points out that the delivery of the message to Argentina has no bearing on the matter, and that the declassified copy of the cable Rogers claims Kissinger never saw shows it addressed to \"secstate washdc\". He also points out that the declassified record is clear that, at the time, Rogers viewed Pinochet's Chile as \"...a symbol of right-wing tyranny\" and referred to the U.S.'s \"strong interest in getting the GOC [Government of Chile] to pursue acceptable human rights practices\" because \"Like it or not, we are identified with the regime's origins and hence charged with some responsibility for its action.\" Maxwell writes, \"Rogers' loyalty to \"his\" former boss and current business associate is commendable, but it was not reciprocated at the time, with Kissinger saying privately to Chilean foreign minister Patricio Carvajal, \"the State Department is made up of people who have a vocation for the ministry. Because there are not enough churches for them, they went into the Department of State.\" [Maxwell, 2004, 19–20] [Rogers and Maxwell, 2004]\n\nRogers, in his second response, tries to present Maxwell as claiming that Kissinger or the U.S. State Department gave a direct go-ahead for the Letelier assassination. Maxwell, in his further reply that \"Foreign Affairs\" refused to print, points out that he made no such claim, simply referring to the \"cruel coincidence\" of the timing of the assassination relative to the \"take no further action\" cable. He also presents a circumstantial argument as to why the cable should be seen as representing policy emanating from the highest level. [Maxwell, 2004, 21]\n\nMaxwell summarizes by saying that his argument is simply that lives might have been saved if the State Department had steadfastly pursued its intent to have U.S. ambassadors inform the \"...heads of state of Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay... that the American government knew of their Condor assassination plans and condemned them wherever they might take place.\" [Maxwell, 2004, 24]\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23618993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23618993", "title": "Khirbat al-Minya", "text": "Khirbat al-Minya\n\nKhirbat al-Minya (also known as Ayn Minyat Hisham or Hurvat Minim) is an Umayyad-built palace in the eastern Galilee, Israel, located about west of the northern end of Lake Tiberias. It was erected as a \"qasr\" complex, with a palace, mosque, and bath built by a single patron.\n\nThe site is the only Umayyad ruin in Israeli territory with remains above the ground and features one of the earliest mosques in Palestine.\n\nKhirbat al-Minya was likely built during the reign of the Umayyad caliph al-Walid I (705-715 CE) and an inscription on a stone found at the site mentions his name. The supposed patron of the palace was al-Walid's son 'Umar ibn al-Walid, who served as the governor of Tiberias during his father's reign, but fell out of favor when his uncle Sulayman ibn Abd al-Malik assumed the role of caliph. This makes the palace's mosque one of the earliest to be built in Palestine.\nKhirbat al-Minya served a number of purposes, including as local administrative center for a subregion of the Jund al-Urdunn (\"District of Jordan\") and as a contact point for 'Umar and local Arab tribes. It also could have served as a caravanserai for merchants traveling along the Sea of Galilee or northeast from the lake shore to the coast. Another purpose of Khirbat al-Minya was a winter retreat for the governor of Tiberias or an alternative for the traditional summer retreat for the governor at Baysan.\n\nKhirbat al-Minya was abandoned at an uncertain date, but was later temporarily resettled. There is evidence that the palace was in use until at least the end of the Umayyad period in 750 CE. A strong earthquake hit the region, probably in the 749 Galilee earthquake. This damaged the building, causing a rift to run through the eastern wing, going straight through the mosque's mihrab. The damage in the niche were never repaired. It thus remains uncertain whether the palace was ever finished: Fallen debris from the earthquake was discovered in the 20th century in situ on the floor tiles of the main entry. The unused raw materials of a mosaic builder were found in the antechamber of the mosque.\n\nMoreover, based on the stratification established in the western part of the site and the discovery of Mamluk pottery in 1959, the palace was settled again during the late Mamluk period (14th-15th centuries). It is likely that the building was used as a khan in this period, due to its position at a cross-road between the main Damascus-Cairo (Via Maris) route and a secondary route to Safad via Khan Jubb Yusuf. A Khan al-Minya was constructed 300 m due north of the palace by Saif al-Din Tankiz (reigned 1312-1340), the Mamluk governor of Syria, during the reign of Al-Nasir Muhammad. Parts of Khirbat al-Minya might have been used as building material for the new khan; baked bricks and a marble capital found during excavations of the khan were assumed to be taken from the palace.\n\nIn 1596 it appeared under the name of \"Mina (Minya)\" in the Ottoman tax registers as part of the \"nahiya\" (subdistrict) of Jira in the \"Sanjak\" (district) of Safad. It had an all Muslim population, consisting of 110 households and 2 bachelors, all Muslim. They paid a fixed tax rate of 25 % on agricultural products, such as wheat, barley, vegetable and fruit garden, orchard, special products, beehives, water buffaloes, in addition to occasional revenues, marked toll and a water mill; totalling 26,476 akçe. All of the revenue went to a waqf for Madrasa \"Tahiriyya\" in Quds Sarif.\n\nParts of the ruin were used as a water reservoir (likely for a mill) and later a large brick oven was built in the south wing and used to process sugar cane from nearby plantations. In the 19th century locals built huts on the rubble heaps.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, Charles William Wilson and other European travelers discovered ancient ruins among the huts of a local Fellah settlement. Some thought it to be Capernaum, where according to the New Testament Jesus had taught at the local synagogue. This was likely an argument for the purchase of the area along with nearby Tell el-Oreme, by the \"\", a Catholic society from Germany, in 1895. After the true Capernaum synagogue was discovered in 1904, Andreas Evaristus Mader (1881-1949), an archeologist and Salvatorian patre conducted exploratory excavations at the ruin and its environments on behalf of the Görres Society in 1911-4 and again in 1931. Identifying a large quadratic structure with outer walls and corner towers, he thought it to be a Roman fort or castrum.\n\nThis was corrected by further work by and in 1932-9. The outbreak of World War II terminated German archaeological work in Palestine. At that point, Schneider and Puttrich-Reignard had excavated about half of the palace and published some of their findings. By 1937, they had uncovered the mosque and it had become obvious that the building was an early Islamic palace. The findings were evenly distributed between the \"Museum für Islamische Kunst\" at Berlin and the Palestine Archaeological Museum in Jerusalem (today the Rockefeller Museum). Whilst most of the findings left in Palestine have today been lost, the Berlin pieces remain in the care of the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation, and some of them are exhibited in the museum's permanent exhibition. The notes and drawings from the excavations are likewise kept in Berlin and have been the subject of recent studies by archaeologists from the universities of Berlin and Bamberg.\n\nDuring July–August 1959, the western section of the palace was excavated by O. Grabar in collaboration with the Israel Antiquities Authority. In 1960 the site was excavated by an Israeli-American expedition, intending to refine the chronology and the plan of the palace. Several rescue digs were later conducted by the Israeli Antiquities Authority in the environments of the palace, revealing a bath from late antiquity/early Islamic times (1963), a medieval caravanserai (1988) and the remains of a medieval settlement between the palace and the lake (2011).\n\nWith the reproachment between Israel and Germany in the 1960s, the \"Verein\" was reinstated as owner but handed over its rights to the palace itself to the Israel Nature and Parks Authority, which awarded the area protected status as a listed monument and has since been responsible for the palace's upkeep.\n\nIn 2000, it was proposed that Khirbat al-Minya should become a World Heritage Site.\n\nIn 2001, a study by the Getty Conservation Institute found severe structural damage to the ruin, caused by the climate and by vegetation. A lack of funds has since prevented countermeasures as well as investment in making the area more accessible to visitors.\n\nThe palace of Khirbat al-Minya is contained within an irregular rectangular enclosure (66 by 73 meters) oriented north-south, facing the four cardinal points. Like other Umayyad palaces it has round towers at its corners and semi-circular towers in the middle of each wall except the eastern wall where a monumental entrance was located. The main gate in the middle of the eastern wall is formed by two projecting half-round towers separated by the arch of the gateway.\n\nThe center of the structure is occupied by a colonnaded courtyard with twin staircases giving access to an upper floor level. The rooms which surrounded the courtyard differ in size and arrangement and included a mosque, numerous rooms with mosaics, and a throne room. The mosque is located in the southeastern corner and is divided into twelve bays supported on piers. Next to the mosque is a triple-aisled basilica hall. Like other Umayyad desert or country palaces, such as Qasr al-Heer al-Gharbi in the Syrian Desert and Khirbat al-Mafjar near Jericho, Khirbat al-Minya followed the Umayyad model of a five-room \"bait\" (\"house\"), flanking the basilica hall. To the north are the residential quarters.\n\nThe building is constructed of finely dressed limestone blocks laid in regular courses with a lower course of black basalt stones. The mosque had a simple decoration, but the domed gateway chamber and the southern rooms were richly decorated. The top of the walls were decorated with large stepped merlons and the interior was decorated with a variety of glass and stone mosaics. Marble panels covered the dadoes of the walls and stone mosaics combined with glass cubes were set in geometric carpet-like patterns on the floors of the five southern rooms. A well-preserved floor mosaic has been discovered in the western part of the palace. Based on the foundations of the gate house, parts of the palace were at least 15 metres high.\n\nThe Israel Nature and Park Authority has erected a sign at the site which states that the protected monument was an early Islamic palace built by Al-Walid I or Al-Walid II. Its unique status, as the only Umayyad-built palace with remains above the ground in Israel, has resulted in efforts to maintain and restore the ruins and to make them more accessible to visitors. In 2012, the \"Institut für Vor-und Frühgeschichte\" of the University of Mainz, in cooperation with the \"Deutscher Verein vom Heiligen Lande\" presented a plan to the Israeli authorities. A guide was published and with financial support from the German Foreign Ministry, the University is currently working with the National Park Authority and the Israel Antiques Authority to protect the masonry from further damage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8932501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8932501", "title": "Law in Oceania", "text": "Law in Oceania\n\nLaw in Oceania refers to the different legal systems within the geographical area of Oceania. Countries such as Australia and New Zealand follow in the Commonwealth tradition of common law, and until recently were subject to the United Kingdom House of Lords. Other countries and islands trace their legal heritage to different former colonialists.\n\n"}
{"id": "26456374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26456374", "title": "Leap year bug", "text": "Leap year bug\n\nThe leap year bug (also known as the leap year problem) is a problem for both digital (computer-related) and non-digital documentation and data storage situations which results from the wrong calculation of which years are leap years.\n\nThere have been several occurrences of the leap year bug:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23085408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23085408", "title": "Legends of Mount Shasta", "text": "Legends of Mount Shasta\n\nCalifornia's Mount Shasta has been the subject of an unusually large number of myths and legends. In particular, it is often said to hide a secret city beneath its peaks. In some stories, the city is no longer inhabited, while in others, it is inhabited by a technologically advanced society of human beings or mythical creatures.\n\nAccording to local indigenous tribes, namely the Klamath people, Mount Shasta is inhabited by the spirit chief Skell, who descended from heaven to the mountain's summit. Skell fought with Spirit of the Below-World, Llao, who resided at Mount Mazama by throwing hot rocks and lava, probably representing the volcanic eruptions at both mountains. Writer Joaquin Miller recorded various related legends in the 1870s.\n\nMount Shasta has also been a focus for non-Native American legends, centered on a hidden city (called Telos) of advanced beings from the lost continent of Lemuria. The legend grew from an offhand mention of Lemuria in the 1880s. In 1899, Frederick Spencer Oliver published \"A Dweller on Two Planets\", which claimed that survivors from a sunken continent called Lemuria were living in or on Mount Shasta. Oliver's Lemurians lived in a complex of tunnels beneath the mountain and occasionally were seen walking the surface dressed in white robes. In 1931, Harvey Spencer Lewis, using the pseudonym Wisar Spenle Cerve, wrote a book (published by the Rosicrucians) about the hidden Lemurians of Mount Shasta that a bibliography on Mount Shasta described as \"responsible for the legend's widespread popularity.\" \nThis belief has been incorporated into numerous occult religions, including \"I AM\" Activity, The Summit Lighthouse, Church Universal and Triumphant, and Kryon.\n\nAccording to Guy Ballard, while hiking on Mount Shasta, he encountered a man who introduced himself as Count of St. Germain, who is said to have started Ballard on the path to discovering the teachings that would become the \"I AM\" Activity religious movement.\n\nAccording to a legend, J. C. Brown was a British prospector who discovered a lost underground city beneath Mt. Shasta in 1904. Brown had been hired by the Lord Cowdray Mining Company of England to prospect for gold, and discovered a cave which sloped downward for 11 miles. In the cave, he found an underground village filled with gold, shields, and mummies, some being up to 10 feet tall.\n\nThirty years later, he told his story to John C. Root, who proceeded to gather an exploration team in Stockton, California. About 80 people joined the team, but on the day the team was to set out, Brown did not show up. Brown was not heard from again.\n"}
{"id": "13125731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13125731", "title": "Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects", "text": "Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects\n\nThe Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects (), also known as The Lives (), is a series of artist biographies written by 16th-century Italian painter and architect Giorgio Vasari, which is considered \"perhaps the most famous, and even today the most-read work of the older literature of art\", \"some of the Italian Renaissance's most influential writing on art\", and \"the first important book on art history\". The title is often abridged to just the \"Vite\" or the \"Lives\".\n\nIt was first published in two editions with substantial differences between them; the first in 1550 and the second in 1568 (which is the one usually translated and referred to). One important change was the increased attention paid to Venetian art in the second edition, even though Vasari has still been criticised ever since for an excessive emphasis on the art of his native Florence.\n\nAs the first Italian art historian, Vasari initiated the genre of an encyclopedia of artistic biographies that continues today. Vasari's work was first published in 1550 by Lorenzo Torrentino in Florence, and dedicated to Cosimo I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany. It included a valuable treatise on the technical methods employed in the arts. It was partly rewritten and enlarged in 1568 and provided with woodcut portraits of artists (some conjectural).\n\nThe work has a consistent and notorious favour of Florentines and tends to attribute to them all the new developments in Renaissance art—for example, the invention of engraving. Venetian art in particular, let alone other parts of Europe, is systematically ignored. Between his first and second editions, Vasari visited Venice and the second edition gave more attention to Venetian art (finally including Titian) without achieving a neutral point of view. John Symonds claimed in 1899 that, \"It is clear that Vasari often wrote with carelessness, confusing dates and places, and taking no pains to verify the truth of his assertions\" (in regards to Vasari's life of Nicola Pisano), while acknowledging that, despite these shortcomings, it is one of the basic sources for information on the Renaissance in Italy.\n\nVasari's biographies are interspersed with amusing gossip. Many of his anecdotes have the ring of truth, although likely inventions. Others are generic fictions, such as the tale of young Giotto painting a fly on the surface of a painting by Cimabue that the older master repeatedly tried to brush away, a genre tale that echoes anecdotes told of the Greek painter Apelles. He did not research archives for exact dates, as modern art historians do, and naturally his biographies are most dependable for the painters of his own generation and the immediately preceding one. Modern criticism—with all the new materials opened up by research—has corrected many of his traditional dates and attributions. The work is widely considered a classic even today, though it is widely agreed that it must be supplemented by modern scientific research.\n\nVasari includes a forty-two-page sketch of his own biography at the end of his \"Vite\", and adds further details about himself and his family in his lives of Lazzaro Vasari and Francesco de' Rossi.\n\nVasari's \"Vite\" has been described as \"by far the most influential single text for the history of Renaissance art\" and \"the most important work of Renaissance biography of artists\". Its influence is situated mainly in three domains: as an example for contemporary and later biographers and art historians, as a defining factor in the view on the Renaissance and the role of Florence and Rome in it, and as a major source of information on the lives and works of early Renaissance artists from Italy.\n\nThe \"Vite\" has been translated wholly or partially into many languages, including English, Dutch, German, Spanish, French and Russian.\n\nThe \"Vite\" formed a model for encyclopedias of artist biographies. Different 17th century translators became artist biographers in their own country of origin and were often called the \"Vasari\" of their country. Karel Van Mander was probably the first Vasarian author with his \"Painting book\" (\"Het Schilderboeck\", 1604), which encompassed not only the first Dutch translation of Vasari, but also the first Dutch translation of Ovid and was accompanied by a list of Italian painters who appeared on the scene after Vasari, and the first comprehensive list of biographies of painters from the Low Countries. Similarly, Joachim von Sandrart, author of \"Deutsche Akademie\" (1675), became known as the \"German Vasari\" and Antonio Palomino, author of \"An account of the lives and works of the most eminent Spanish painters, sculptors and architects\" (1724), became the \"Spanish Vasari\". In England, Aglionby's \"Painting Illustrated\" from 1685 was largely based on Vasari as well. In Florence the biographies of artists were revised and implemented in the late 17th century by Filippo Baldinucci.\n\nThe \"Vite\" is also important as the basis for discussions about the development of style. It influenced the view art historians had of the Early Renaissance for a long time, placing too much emphasis on the achievements of Florentine and Roman artists while ignoring those of the rest of Italy and certainly the artists from the rest of Europe.\n\nFor centuries, it has been the most important source of information on Early Renaissance Italian (and especially Tuscan) painters and the attribution of their paintings. In 1899, John Addington Symonds used the \"Vite\" as one of his basic sources for the description of artists in his seven books on the \"Renaissance in Italy\", and nowadays it is still, despite its obvious biases and shortcomings, the basis for the biographies of many artists like Leonardo da Vinci.\n\nThe \"Vite\" contains the biographies of many important Italian artists, and is also adopted as a sort of classical reference guide for their names, which are sometimes used in different ways. The following list respects the order of the book, as divided into its three parts. The book starts with a dedication to Cosimo I de' Medici and a preface, and then starts with technical and background texts about architecture, sculpture, and painting. A second preface follows, introducing the actual \"Vite\" in parts 2 to 5. What follows is the complete list from the second (1568) edition. In a few cases, different very short biographies were given in one section.\n\nThere have been numerous editions and translations of the \"Lives\" over the years. Many have been abridgements due to the great length of the original. The most recent new English translation is by Peter and Julia Conaway Bondanella, published in the Oxford World's Classics series in 1991.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44497669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44497669", "title": "Maria Leach", "text": "Maria Leach\n\nMaria Leach (April 30, 1892 – May 22, 1977) was an American writer and editor of books on folklores of the world. A noted scholar, she compiled and edited a major reference work on folklore and was the author or editor of thirteen books for adults, young people, and children.\n\nBorn in New York City, Maria Leach was the former Alice-Mary Doane, daughter of Benjamin H. Doane and Mary (Davis) Doane. Her father was a native of Nova Scotia, one of Canada's three Maritime provinces. Born in Barrington, in Shelburne County, he was a descendent of the venerable family called Doane (an Anglicized form of a Gaelic name common in southern Ireland since the 1500s). In Nova Scotia he had connections to seafaring through his own father, a ship's captain. In the late 1870s or early 1880s, Benjamin Doane and his wife Mary, a native of South Carolina and an unreconstructed Rebel, moved to New York and established a home in Manhattan, where they lived for some years and raised their children.\n\nAlice-Mary Doane spent her youth and received her early education in New York City. Upon graduation from high school she went to Earlham College in Richmond, Indiana, whose curriculum was shaped by the perspective of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). She then went on to study for a master's degree in anthropology at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign. There she met MacEdward Leach, a student of medieval literature and philology with a strong interest in folklore. His fascination with the oral tradition of medieval folk tales was shared by Alice-Mary, who by then was known as Maria (pronounced \"Ma-RYE-uh\" in the British fashion), which she had adopted as a pen name. After MacEdward Leach earned a bachelor's degree in 1916 and completed his military service in World War I, he and Maria married in 1917 and moved to Baltimore, where both of them pursued graduate studies at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nMacEdward Leach earned a master's degree at Johns Hopkings that same year, 1917. Maria continued her studies toward a doctorate in folklore in 1918–19. In 1920 he entered the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia and began teaching as an instructor of English. Not long after, in 1924, the Leaches became the parents of a son, Macdonald, their only child. As a young father, MacEdward Leach obtained his doctorate in English in 1930 and joined the faculty of the university in 1931 as an assistant professor of English.\n\nIn 1936, Maria Leach found employment in the Philadelphia offices of Funk & Wagnalls, a scholarly publishing firm. As working parents, the Leaches then set up house in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, and some years later, once their son was away at boarding school, decided to follow mostly independent pathways. While he remained in Pennsylvania, she moved back to New York, returning to their home in Bucks County for occasional weekends. MacEdward Leach would subsequently devote his entire career to teaching and working at the university, where, among other accomplishments, he founded the program in folklore.\n\nMaria Leach also continued to work in the burgeoning field of folklore. Having resettled in Manhattan, in Greenwich Village, she worked in the New York offices of Funk & Wagnalls as a dictionary editor. There, after her amicable divorce from MacEdward Leach in the mid-1940s, she compiled and edited the major reference work on folklore, mythology, and legend for which she is best known. From 1953 to 1958 she was a textbook editor at McGraw-Hill Book Company. During this time, in 1954, she wrote the first of what would become a substantial list of published works. In the late 1950s, she decided to retire and move to Nova Scotia. Her connection to the people of Cape Breton led her to establish residence in Shelburne County, at first in Barrington, in the Doane's family home, and then, finally, at Coffinscroft. A folklorist of international renown, she was still actively engaged in writing at the time of her death in 1977.\n\nDuring her lifetime, Maria Leach was a prominent member of the American Folklore Society, for which she served as councilor. She also held memberships in the American Anthropological Association, the American Dialect Society, the Northeast Folklore Society, the Society for Ethnomusicology, the American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference, and the Religious Society of Friends. In Nova Scotia, she was active in the Canadian Folklore Society and the Cape Breton Historical Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "30858327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30858327", "title": "Name of the Father", "text": "Name of the Father\n\nThe name of the father (French ) is a concept that Jacques Lacan developed from his seminar \"The Psychoses\" (1955–1956) to cover the role of the father in the Symbolic Order. \n\nLacan plays with the similar sounds in French of ' (the name of the father), ' (the no of the father), and \"\" (the non-dupes err) to emphasize with the first two phrases the legislative and prohibitive functions of the father and to emphasize with the last phrase that \"those who do not let themselves be caught in the symbolic deception/fiction and continue to believe their eyes are the ones who err most\".\n\nLacan's concept draws on the mythical father of Freud's \"Totem and Taboo\"; and was used by him as a strategic move in his opposition to what he saw as the over-emphasis of object relations theory on the exclusive relationship of the individual and his/her mother as a dual pair. \n\nLacan emphasised instead the importance of the third party in the Oedipus complex – what he called \"the place that she [the mother] reserves for the Name-of-the Father in the promulgation of the law\". He saw this as a vital element in helping each new member of the human race to move from an exclusive, primary relation to the mother[er] to a wider engagement with the outside, cultural world – the symbolic order.\n\nAnthony Stevens has similarly argued that \"Traditionally, the father's orientation is centrifugal, i. e., towards the outside world...his is the primary responsibility for facilitating the transition from home to society'. Likewise the family therapist Robin Skynner sees the father (or fatherer) playing an essential role in the process whereby \"the toddler has got to see that Mum isn't God as a first step to seeing that Dad isn't God, and that...\"he's\" part of something bigger too\". \n\nFor Lacan, that bigger context could be seen as \"the chain of discourse...in which an entire family, an entire coterie, an entire camp, an entire nation or half the world will be caught\". The internalisation of the Name of the Father with the passing of the Oedipus complex ensured for Lacan participation in that wider chain of discourse, and was for him an essential element of human sanity.\n\nLacan distinguishes between the Symbolic, the Imaginary and the Real father: \"It is in the \"name of the father\" that we must recognise the support of the symbolic function which, from the dawn of history, has identified his person with the figure of the law\" – as distinct from \"the narcissistic relations, or even from the real relations, which the subject sustains with the image and action of the person who embodies it\". This paternal function imposes the law and regulates desire in the Oedipus complex, intervening in the imaginary dual relationship between mother and child to introduce a necessary symbolic distance between them (Dylan Evans). 'The true function of the Father is fundamentally to unite (and not to set in opposition) a desire and the Law' (Écrits), and the Symbolic Father is thus not an actual subject but a position in the Symbolic Order.\n\nBy contrast the Imaginary Father is an imago, the composite of all the imaginary constructs that the subject builds up in fantasy around the figure of the father; and may be construed either as an ideal father or as the opposite, the bad father – what Slavoj Zizek referred to as \"the \"reverse\" of the father, the \"anal father\" who lurks behind the Name-of-the-Father \"qua\" bearer of the symbolic law\". \n\nAs to the real father, Lacan stresses how \"the ravaging effects of the paternal figure are to be observed with particular frequency in cases where the father really has the function of a legislator...with too many opportunities of being in a position of undeserving, inadequacy, even of fraud, and, in short, of excluding the Name-of-the-Father from its position in the signifier\".\n\nPsychosis for Lacanians is the exact opposite of the Name of the Father – the absence of that identification with the symbolic order which ensures our place in the shared intersubjective world of common sense. The Name-of-the-Father is thus the fundamental signifier which permits signification to proceed normally. It not only confers identity and position on the subject within the symbolic order, but also signifies the Oedipal prohibition (the \"no\" of the incest taboo). \n\nIf this signifier is foreclosed, in the sense of being excluded from the Symbolic Order, the result is psychosis. Psychotics have not been properly separated from their mother[er] by the fixed name-of-the-father, and hence relate to speech and language differently from neurotics.\n\nIn \"On a Question Preliminary to Any Possible Treatment of Psychosis\" (1957), Lacan represents the Oedipus complex as \"the metaphor of the Name-of-the-Father, that is, the metaphor that substitutes this Name in the place first symbolized by the operation of the absence of the mother\". All paternity thus involves metaphoric substitution. \n\nLacan originally presents the 'paternal metaphor' in his Seminar \"La relation d'objet\" (1956–1957): it is the fundamental metaphor on which all signification depends (all signification is phallic). If the Name-of-the-Father is foreclosed, as in psychosis, there can be no paternal metaphor and hence no phallic signification.\n\nIn his late seminars, Lacan downplayed the hitherto central importance of the Name-of-the-Father and the Oedipus complex as well, considering them either irrelevant or misleading in terms of his then-current concerns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44186180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44186180", "title": "National Association of Black and White Men Together", "text": "National Association of Black and White Men Together\n\nThe National Association of Black and White Men Together, Inc.: A Gay Multiracial Organization for All People (NABWMT) is a longstanding network of chapters across the United States focused on LGBT and racial equality, founded in May, 1980 in San Francisco as a consciousness-raising, multicultural organization and support group for gay men forming multiracial relationships. To attain these ends, its local chapters organised social gatherings and engaged in educational, cultural, and political activities. It is a registered IRS 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. NABWMT's goals consist of two major themes: combating racism within the LGBT community and combating homophobia in general society. NABWMT's vision is to be a key organizational and archival resource for those working on racial and social justice. An overall goal is to witness an America free of racism and homophobia.\n\nNABWMT got its start in May 1980 when founder Michael Smith placed an advertisement in \"The Advocate\" for a potluck that attracted 20 people. Within a year of its founding, local chapters were established in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington DC, Los Angeles, Memphis, Chicago, Detroit, Atlanta, and Milwaukee. Chapters named \"Black and White Men Together,\" \"Men of All Colors Together,\" \"GREAT (Gay Racially Equal And Together) Men of (city),\" and \"People of All Colors Together\" which include women, all operate under the NABWMT umbrella. Local chapters host social and educational events, and also support other aspects of their communities. For example, the Detroit chapter raised funds for and provided direct assistance to the Ruth Ellis Center in 2006.\n\nAs a result of AIDS education and support work carried out by chapters, the National Task Force on AIDS Prevention (NTFAP) and Bay Area HIV Support and Education Services (BAHSES) both sprung from NABWMT in the late 1980s. In 1980, Reggie Williams, an executive director of NABWMT and NTFAP, began to reach out to Black gay and bisexual men, as well as other gay men of color communities in San Francisco.\n\nEducation about racism, homophobia and HIV/AIDS remain a primary focus of NABWMT and its local chapters. This is accomplished through workshops (presentations, seminars, dynamic discussions, enlightenment sessions) during the annual national convention and during periodic regional weekend get-togethers through the Midland (presently inactive) and Western Regions. These topics are also regularly discussed in the published quarterly newsletter Q Visions, the NABWMT website (www.nabwmt.org), many podcasts, and local chapter \"gabfests.\" \n\nIndeed, the two Facebook pages (with over 14,000 members as of 2018) may represent one of the few opportunities for people from around the world to view and engage in civil communications in real time about these provocative topics, some of which may be forbidden in their countries. Ten volunteer moderators/administrators approve requests for \"membership\" to the two groups, and lightly moderate and approve posts.\n\nThe first national convention was held in San Francisco in 1981; more recently, the 34th convention was held in Milwaukee, July 2014, 35th in Newark, July, 2015, 36th in Memphis, July, 2016, and the 37th convention in Ft. Lauderdale, FL, August, 2017. . Upcoming conventions will be the 38th in Reno, NV, the 39th in Washington, DC/Crystal City, VA, and the 40th in New Orleans, LA. \n\nNotably, the Western Region comprising Southern California, Phoenix, and Seattle have held successful regional get-togethers in the fall or spring, each of which attracting 50-60. The focus of these regional activities include educational activities and social activities. \n\nThe Boston chapter held the eighth annual NABWT convention in the City of Boston in July 1988 at the Park Plaza Hotel, during which members from 23 chapters attended.\n\n\n\nhttps://www.facebook.com/groups/46674043558/\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "38982189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38982189", "title": "Nirmala Erevelles", "text": "Nirmala Erevelles\n\nNirmala Erevelles is a Professor in the Social Foundations of Education and Instructional Department of Education Leadership, Policy, and Technology Studies at the University of Alabama. She publishes about various topics related to disability, in particular the ways social oppression is pervasive due to differences in race, socioeconomic status, and bodies.\n\nErevelles earned her bachelor's degree in mathematics from Stella Maris College in 1985. She earned an M.S. in special education from Syracuse University in 1989, and a Ph.D. in 1998 from Syracuse University in the \"Cultural Foundations of Education\".\n\nErevelles relies on Historical Materialism which suggests that economic inequality determines other forms of inequality - an issue which is evident in her Ph.D. dissertation. In her Ph.D., which was entitled \"Bodies that do not matter: Social policy, education, and the politics of difference\", Erevelles suggested that children with disabilities who are institutionalized in India are actually more privileged than the workers who help them. She commented in her dissertation that \"many service providers, particularly the poor, single, lower caste women, spoke of lives of destitution that often seemed to outstrip by far the destitution experienced by many of the disabled children who received services there.\" \n\nIn an article co-authored with Andrea Minear entitled \"Unspeakable Offenses: Untangling Race and Disability in Discourses of Intersectionality,\" Black and Latin@ urban students were more likely to be classified with learning disabilities. This illustrates how stereotyping and racism are coupled with an additional minority identification (disability) to relegate the students further.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11748495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11748495", "title": "Phonological deficit", "text": "Phonological deficit\n\nThe phonological deficit hypothesis is a prevalent cognitive-level explanation for the cause of reading difficulties and dyslexia. It stems from evidence that individuals with dyslexia tend to do poorly on tests which measure their ability to decode nonsense words using conventional phonetic rules, and that there is a high correlation between difficulties in connecting the sounds of language to letters and reading delays or failure in children.\n\nThe basic hypothesis is that reading failure or dyslexia stems from a functional or structural deficit in left hemispheric brain areas associated with processing the sounds of language. Some researchers have studied the structure and function of neural pathways in the language areas of the brain. Others have focused on the perception of short or rapidly varying sounds of language, positing that the core deficit is one of timing rather than of overall function.\n\nIn the past two decades, the phonological deficit hypothesis has been the dominant explanation favored by researchers as to the probable cause of dyslexia, but it is only one of several competing theories. Critics of the phonological hypothesis point out that it fails to account for symptoms of dyslexia unrelated to phonetic decoding difficulties, such as problems with short-term memory, visual processing issues, or difficulties with balance and small motor coordination that are common to many dyslexic children and adults. They also argue that much of the evidence for the theory is based on circular reasoning, in that phonological weakness is seen as both a defining symptom of dyslexia and as its underlying cause.\n\n"}
{"id": "35033521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35033521", "title": "Private Libraries Association", "text": "Private Libraries Association\n\nThe Private Libraries Association (PLA) came into being in 1956 when 18-year-old Philip Ward wrote a letter to the Observer inviting booklovers and book collectors to attend a meeting to discuss the setting up of an association whose aims would be:-\nAlthough the membership has always included distinguished experts, it largely consists of ordinary collectors who share their enthusiasms and their knowledge. Since its foundation, the PLA has published a quarterly journal, originally called \"P.L.A. Quarterly\" but quickly renamed (from 1958) \"The Private Library\"; since Spring 1968, the journal has appeared in a standard format of some 40-50 pages containing two or three illustrated articles. It also publishes a members’ book every year or two years. The articles and books are written by members and cover a wide range of subjects – classic fine printing and modern private presses, modern small presses and children's books, illustrators and publishers, famous books and the history of printing, bookplates and bookbinding, bookselling, etc.. Details of the books and \"the Private Library\" can be found on the association’s website.\n"}
{"id": "20576463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20576463", "title": "Procedural drama", "text": "Procedural drama\n\nA procedural drama is a genre of television programming which focuses on how crimes are solved or some other aspect of a law enforcement agency, legislative body, or court of law. Some dramas include a lab or conference room with high-tech or state-of-the-art equipment where the main characters meet to work out the problem. Shows usually have an episodic format that does not require the viewer to have seen previous episodes. Episodes typically have a self-contained, also referred to as stand-alone, plot that is introduced and resolved within the same episode.\nThe procedural format is popular around the world. In 2011, the director of a TV consultancy said, \"The continuing trend is for procedurals because they use a predictable structure.\" Due to their stand-alone episodic nature, they are more accessible to new viewers than serials. Self-contained episodes also make it easier for viewers to return to a show if they have missed some episodes. In general, procedural dramas can usually be re-run with little concern for episode order.\n\nProcedurals are often criticized for being . Procedurals are also generally less character-driven than serialized shows. However, some procedurals have more character emphasis than is typical of the format. Some may occasionally feature a storyline stretching over several episodes (often called a story arc).\n\nA popular variant is the police procedural.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40014144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40014144", "title": "Ramboll Environ", "text": "Ramboll Environ\n\nENVIRON was a privately held, international environmental, safety and health sciences consulting firm headquartered in Arlington, Virginia. ENVIRON had operations across more than 90 offices in 21 countries, with more than 1,500 consultants when it was acquired in December 2014 by Danish-based Ramboll\n\nIn a transition period, legacy ENVIRON was rebranded as Ramboll Environ, Inc. Since January 1 2018, ENVIRON no longer exists as a separate business entity, and is now part of the Water and Environment & Health divisions of Ramboll.\n\nThe firm was founded as ENVIRON in Washington, D.C., in 1982.\n\nIn 1996 the firm acquired EAG, a consulting firm in the United Kingdom. In 2003 ENVIRON merged with Applied Epidemiology, Inc., a provider of epidemiological consulting services in occupational health, environmental health and injury, and disability research. ENVIRON then merged in 2005 with The ADVENT Group, an engineering consulting firm specializing in industrial wastewater management and related areas, and developer of the patented ADVENT Integral System (AIS).\n\nIn 2007 ENVIRON acquired Boelter Associates, Inc., a consulting firm with expertise in industrial hygiene and building forensics. In 2009, the firm acquired Brazilian consultancy ARQUIPÉLAGO Engenharia Ambiental Ltda.(Arquipélago).\n\nENVIRON acquired Mexican firm Hicks Environmental in February 2014, expanding into Mexico with an office in Monterrey. In March 2014, ENVIRON established operations in Yangon, Myanmar, becoming the first global environmental consultancy in the country.\n\nThe Danish company Ramboll acquired ENVIRON 2014-12-16. January 1 2018, legacy Environ was included in the Water and Environment & Health divisions of Ramboll, and Environ no longer exists as a separate business entity.\nThe firm offered various environmental, health and safety, sustainability and health sciences services, including air quality and climate change management, regulatory compliance assistance, due diligence, remedial design and engineering, ecology and sediment management, and risk and exposure assessment and management.\n\nIn its April 28, 2014 edition, Engineering News-Record ranked ENVIRON Holdings, Inc., as the 27th largest pure design firm; the 35th largest design firm in international markets; and the 49th largest overall U.S. design firm.\n\nENVIRON provided assistance in assessing and mitigating potential environmental risks. Key services included: air quality management; climate change and energy management; due diligence; ecology and sediment management; risk assessment and management; and site investigation and remediation.\n\nThe firm provided assistance so that industrial facilities are regulatory compliant, managed potential liabilities, and assessed environmental, health, and safety risks when making an acquisition. Key services included: Building Performance and Property Loss Consulting, Compliance Assistance, Dose Reconstruction, Occupational Health and Safety; and Site Investigation and Remediation.\n\nENVIRON assessed and addressed potential human health risks associated with environmental, residential and workplace exposures and product-related exposures. This work included product safety and stewardship, industrial hygiene and safety, risk assessment and management, and industrial chemical safety evaluations.\n\nAt the request of the Hong Kong Environmental Protection Department the company developed a comprehensive air quality model system to address air quality concerns, including ozone, particulate matter, and other pollutants due to local sources, as well as transport from China and other areas in Asia.\n\nENVIRON was engaged to deliver a wide range of social and environmental services to international standards related to a 13,000-km-long fibre optic submarine telecommunications cable system running the entire length of the Indian Ocean coast of Africa, from South Africa to Egypt.\n\nIn the United States, the firm worked with the Marathon Petroleum Company at its major gulf coast refinery in Garyville, Louisiana, to develop VOC BioTreat™, a patent-pending biotreatment solution to reduce volatile organic compound emissions at oil and chemical refineries. The company asserts that the system achieves regulatory compliance and cost savings of an order of magnitude.\n\nTheir studies uncovered the chemical mechanism that established a link between certain types of gypsum wallboard (Chinese drywall) and corrosive effects on copper and silver components in residential properties across the southeastern United States. ENVIRON scientists were the first to recognize and publish findings about the progressive nature of the corrosion.\n\nBP Remediation Management awarded ENVIRON four framework agreements for a range of strategic worldwide environmental services. Two agreements call for the firm to provide a broad spectrum of environmental services for upstream, refining and marketing, shipping and remediation that include regulatory compliance; multimedia modeling; environmental, social and health impact assessments; natural resource management; due diligence support; and sustainability services around the world. Two additional agreements focus on global inland and offshore oil spill preparedness and response planning.\n\nThe company and another prominent engineering and scientific firm, Exponent, were employed by Georgia-Pacific to conduct research intended for its defense in an asbestos-related lawsuit. Controversially, the dissemination of the research was controlled by Georgia-Pacific and is subject to ongoing litigation.\n\nAn environmental impact assessment (EIA) prepared for the proposed expansion of the Kemira Chemicals production plant in Sastamala, Finland received an honorary award from the Finnish National EIA Association (YVA ry) for “exceptionally good assessment of risks and the potential environmental impacts of disturbances and emergency situations”.\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency USEPA selected Principal Dr. Carl Adams to join its task force for the Wastewater Treatment and Related Modeling Technical Workshop. During the opening panel of the first task force meeting, Dr. Adams spoke on Zero Discharge of Water from Hydrofracturing Activities, a unique concept he has developed to recycle 100 percent of all wastewaters related to hydraulic fracturing activities, including spills and rainwater. The concept involves no contact with air, ground and surface water or soils.\n\nIn January 2013, the Climate Change Business Journal awarded ENVIRON its Gold Medal Business Achievement Award in Energy and Carbon Management.\n\nThe Port of Los Angeles, an ENVIRON client, received the Environmental Campaign of the Year Award in 2012 given by Containerisation International, an international shipping publication.\n\nDP World awarded ENVIRON the Golden Dhow Award for its environmental consultancy services to the London Gateway super port.\n\nENVIRON also assisted a client in Milan, Italy that received the first award for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certification, the U.S. Green Building Council’s highest certification level.\n\nIn 2011, the American Academy of Environmental Engineers Excellence in Environmental Engineering Competition awarded ENVIRON its Grand Prize, Research for ENVIRON’s American patent-pending VOC BioTreat™ Technology.\n\nAlso in 2011, the firm won the UK's Edie Environmental Excellence Award: Best Consultancy for Due Diligence.\n\nENVIRON won the Chemical Industry Awards REACH Service Provider Award 2010.\n\nRamboll Environ professionals published more than 20 articles in peer-reviewed and scientific publications since 2013.\n\nPrincipal Doug Daugherty co-authored a chapter in “Responsible Mining: Case Studies in Managing Social & Environmental Risks in the Developed World”, a trade book published by the Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration (SME) in January 2015. The chapter details Molycorp’s Mountain Pass rare-earth resource and processing facility in southeastern California as it aims to become one of the largest rare-earth production centers in the world in a sustainable way that minimize environmental impacts.\n\nPrincipal P. Robinan Gentry co-authored “Evaluation of gene expression changes in human primary uroepithelial cells following 24-Hr. exposures to inorganic arsenic and its methylated metabolites,” in the publication Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis. This publication was honored with the Editor’s Choice.\n\nFour Principals have contributed to The EU Environmental Liability: A Commentary. Written for lawyers and others, this Oxford University Press publication examines the legal, administrative, scientific, and economic issues relating to the directive.\n\nIn 2011, Dr. Joseph V. Rodricks, a co-founder and Principal of ENVIRON International, prepared a chapter on exposure science appearing in the third edition of the National Academies of Science’s Reference Manual on Scientific Evidence. He has also written for the International Journal of Toxicology.\n"}
{"id": "55602415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55602415", "title": "Richard Sackler", "text": "Richard Sackler\n\nRichard Stephen Sackler (born March 1945) is an American billionaire businessman, and a former chairman and president of Purdue Pharma, a company founded by his late father Raymond Sackler and best known as the developer of Oxycontin.\n\nSackler was born in March 1945, the son of Raymond Sackler. He received a bachelor's degree from Columbia University, followed by an MD degree from the New York University School of Medicine.\n\nSackler joined Purdue Pharma in 1971, as assistant to the president. He became head of R&D and head of marketing before becoming president in 1999, and co-chairman in 2003. Sackler was in charge of the research department that developed OxyContin. As president, he approved the targeted marketing schemes to promote sales of OxyContin to doctors, pharmacists, nurses, academics, and others. Shelby Sherman, an ex-Purdue sales rep, has called these marketing schemes \"graft\". \n\nIn 2015, Sackler was deposed by four lawyers in Louisville, Kentucky. The deposition concerned the development and marketing of OxyContin under the watch of him and his family, who were and are active board members of their private company, Purdue Pharma. The marketing and prescribing of OxyContin in Pike County, Kentucky, was of particular interest. \n\nBefore the case could go to trial and thus before the deposition could become a matter of public record, Purdue settled for $24 million, admitting no liability, sealing the deposition, and requiring the Kentucky prosecutors to destroy, or return to Purdue, millions of pages of internal documents obtained from the company during discovery. The medical news website STAT then sued to unseal Richard Sackler's deposition. A state judge ruled in its favor. Purdue appealed, and, as of October 26, 2017, that appeal remains outstanding. The deposition cannot be made public unless the appeal is decided in favor of STAT again.\n\nSackler is a member of the board of advisors of the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research.\n\nHe was married to Beth but is now divorced, and they have three children, Rebecca, Marianna, and David. They have a charitable foundation, the Richard and Beth Sackler Foundation. He has lived outside Austin, Texas since 2013. \n"}
{"id": "11015023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11015023", "title": "Selective exposure theory", "text": "Selective exposure theory\n\nSelective exposure is a theory within the practice of psychology, often used in media and communication research, that historically refers to individuals' tendency to favor information which reinforces their pre-existing views while avoiding contradictory information. Selective exposure has also been known and defined as \"congeniality bias\" or \"confirmation bias\" in various texts throughout the years.\n\nAccording to the historical use of the term, people tend to select specific aspects of exposed information which they incorporate into their mindset. These selections are made based on their perspectives, beliefs, attitudes and decisions. People can mentally dissect the information they are exposed to and select favorable evidence, while ignoring the unfavorable. The foundation of this theory is rooted in the cognitive dissonance theory, which asserts that when individuals are confronted with contrasting ideas, certain mental defense mechanisms are activated to produce harmony between new ideas and pre-existing beliefs, which results in cognitive equilibrium. Cognitive equilibrium, which is defined as a state of balance between a person's mental representation of the world and his or her environment, is crucial to understanding selective exposure theory. According to Jean Piaget, when a mismatch occurs, people find it to be \"inherently dissatisfying\".\n\nSelective exposure relies on the assumption that one will continue to seek out information on an issue even after an individual has taken a stance on it. The position that a person has taken will be colored by various factors of that issue that are reinforced during the decision-making process.\n\nSelective exposure has been displayed in various contexts such as self-serving situations and situations in which people hold prejudices regarding outgroups, particular opinions, and personal and group-related issues. Perceived usefulness of information, perceived norm of fairness, and curiosity of valuable information are three factors that can counteract selective exposure.\n\nSelective exposure can affect the decisions people make as individuals or as groups because they may be unwilling to change their views and beliefs either collectively or on their own. A historical example of the disastrous effects of selective exposure and its effects on group dynamics is the series of events leading up to the Bay of Pigs Invasion in 1961. President John F. Kennedy was given the go ahead by his advisers to authorize the invasion of Cuba by poorly trained expatriates despite overwhelming evidence that it was a foolish and ill-conceived tactical maneuver. The advisers were so eager to please the President that they confirmed their cognitive bias for the invasion rather than challenging the faulty plan. Changing beliefs about one's self, other people, and the world are three variables as to why people fear new information. A variety of studies has shown that selective exposure effects can occur in the context of both individual and group decision making. Numerous situational variables have been identified that increase the tendency toward selective exposure. Social psychology, specifically, includes research with a variety of situational factors and related psychological processes that eventually persuade a person to make a quality decision. Additionally, from a psychological perspective, the effects of selective exposure can both stem from motivational and cognitive accounts.\n\nAccording to research study by Fischer, Schulz-Hardt, et al. (2008), the quantity of decision-relevant information that the participants were exposed to had a significant effect on their levels of selective exposure. A group for which only two pieces of decision-relevant information were given had experienced lower levels of selective exposure than the other group who had ten pieces of information to evaluate. This research brought more attention to the cognitive processes of individuals when they are presented with a very small amount of decision-consistent and decision-inconsistent information. The study showed that in situations such as this, an individual becomes more doubtful of their initial decision due to the unavailability of resources. They begin to think that there is not enough data or evidence in this particular field in which they are told to make a decision about. Because of this, the subject becomes more critical of their initial thought process and focuses on both decision-consistent and inconsistent sources, thus decreasing his level of selective exposure. For the group who had plentiful pieces of information, this factor made them confident in their initial decision because they felt comfort from the fact that their decision topic was well-supported by a large number of resources. Therefore, the availability of decision-relevant and irrelevant information surrounding individuals can influence the level of selective exposure experienced during the process of decision-making.\n\nSelective exposure is prevalent within singular individuals and groups of people and can influence either to reject new ideas or information that is not commensurate with the original ideal. In Jonas et al. (2001) empirical studies were done on four different experiments investigating individuals' and groups' decision making. This article suggests that confirmation bias is prevalent in decision making. Those who find new information often draw their attention towards areas where they hold personal attachment. Thus, people are driven toward pieces of information that are coherent with their own expectations or beliefs as a result of this selective exposure theory occurring in action. Throughout the process of the four experiments, generalization is always considered valid and confirmation bias is always present when seeking new information and making decisions.\n\nFischer and Greitemeyer (2010) explored individuals' decision making in terms of selective exposure to confirmatory information. Selective exposure posed that individuals make their decisions based on information that is consistent with their decision rather than information that is inconsistent. Recent research has shown that \"Confirmatory Information Search\" was responsible for the 2008 bankruptcy of the Lehman Brothers Investment Bank which then triggered the Global Financial Crisis. In the zeal for profit and economic gain, politicians, investors and financial advisors ignored the mathematical evidence that foretold the housing market crash in favor of flimsy justifications for upholding the status quo. Researchers explain that subjects have the tendency to seek and select information using their integrative model. There are two primary motivations for selective exposure: Accuracy Motivation and Defense Motivation. Accuracy Motivation explains that an individual is motivated to be accurate in their decision making and Defense Motivation explains that one seeks confirmatory information to support their beliefs and justify their decisions. Accuracy motivation is not always beneficial within the context of selective exposure and can instead be counterintuitive, increasing the amount of selective exposure. Defense motivation can lead to reduced levels of selective exposure.\n\nSelective exposure avoids information inconsistent with one's beliefs and attitudes. For example, former Vice President Dick Cheney would only enter a hotel room after the television was turned on and tuned to a conservative television channel. When analyzing a person's decision-making skills, his or her unique process of gathering relevant information is not the only factor taken into account. Fischer et al. (2010) found it important to consider the information source itself, otherwise explained as the physical being that provided the source of information. Selective exposure research generally neglects the influence of indirect decision-related attributes, such as physical appearance. In Fischer et al. (2010) two studies hypothesized that physically attractive information sources resulted in decision makers to be more selective in searching and reviewing decision-relevant information. Researchers explored the impact of social information and its level of physical attractiveness. The data was then analyzed and used to support the idea that selective exposure existed for those who needed to make a decision. Therefore, the more attractive an information source was, the more positive and detailed the subject was with making the decision. Physical attractiveness affects an individual's decision because the perception of quality improves. Physically attractive information sources increased the quality of consistent information needed to make decisions and further increased the selective exposure in decision-relevant information, supporting the researchers' hypothesis. Both studies concluded that attractiveness is driven by a different selection and evaluation of decision-consistent information. Decision makers allow factors such as physical attractiveness to affect everyday decisions due to the works of selective exposure.\nIn another study, selective exposure was defined by the amount of individual confidence. Individuals can control the amount of selective exposure depending on whether they have a low self-esteem or high self-esteem. Individuals who maintain higher confidence levels reduce the amount of selective exposure. Albarracín and Mitchell (2004) hypothesized that those who displayed higher confidence levels were more willing to seek out information both consistent and inconsistent with their views. The phrase \"decision-consistent information\" explains the tendency to actively seek decision-relevant information. Selective exposure occurs when individuals search for information and show systematic preferences towards ideas that are consistent, rather than inconsistent, with their beliefs. On the contrary, those who exhibited low levels of confidence were more inclined to examine information that did not agree with their views. The researchers found that in three out of five studies participants showed more confidence and scored higher on the \"Defensive Confidence Scale\", which serves as evidence that their hypothesis was correct.\n\nBozo et al. (2009) investigated the anxiety of fearing death and compared it to various age groups in relation to health-promoting behaviors. Researchers analyzed the data by using the terror management theory and found that age had no direct effect on specific behaviors. The researchers thought that a fear of death would yield health-promoting behaviors in young adults. When individuals are reminded of their own death, it causes stress and anxiety, but eventually leads to positive changes in their health behaviors. Their conclusions showed that older adults were consistently better at promoting and practicing good health behaviors, without thinking about death, compared to young adults. Young adults were less motivated to change and practice health-promoting behaviors because they used the selective exposure to confirm their prior beliefs. Selective exposure thus creates barriers between the behaviors in different ages, but there is no specific age at which people change their behaviors.\n\nThough physical appearance will impact one's personal decision regarding an idea presented, a study conducted by Van Dillen, Papies, and Hofmann (2013) suggests a way to decrease the influence of personal attributes and selective exposure on decision-making. The results from this study showed that people do pay more attention to physically attractive or tempting stimuli; however, this phenomenon can be decreased through increasing the \"cognitive load.\" In this study, increasing cognitive activity led to a decreased impact of physical appearance and selective exposure on the individual's impression of the idea presented. This is explained by acknowledging that we are instinctively drawn to certain physical attributes, but if the required resources for this attraction are otherwise engaged at the time, then we might not notice these attributes to an equal extent. For example, if a person is simultaneously engaging in a mentally challenging activity during the time of exposure, then it is likely that less attention will be paid to appearance, which leads to a decreased impact of selective exposure on decision-making.\n\nLeon Festinger is widely considered as the father of modern social psychology and as an important figure to that field of practice as Freud was to clinical psychology and Piaget was to developmental psychology. He was considered to be one of the most significant social psychologists of the 20th century. His work demonstrated that it is possible to use the scientific method to investigate complex and significant social phenomena without reducing them to the mechanistic connections between stimulus and response that were the basis of behaviorism. Festinger proposed the groundbreaking theory of cognitive dissonance that has become the foundation of selective exposure theory today despite the fact that Festinger was considered as an \"avant-garde\" psychologist when he had first proposed it in 1957. In an ironic twist, Festinger realized that he himself was a victim of the effects of selective exposure. He was a heavy smoker his entire life and when he was diagnosed with terminal cancer in 1989, he was said to have joked, \"Make sure that everyone knows that it wasn't lung cancer!\" Cognitive dissonance theory explains that when a person either consciously or unconsciously realizes conflicting attitudes, thoughts, or beliefs, they experience mental discomfort. Because of this, an individual will avoid such conflicting information in the future since it produces this discomfort, and they will gravitate towards messages sympathetic to their own previously held conceptions. Decision makers are unable to evaluate information quality independently on their own (Fischer, Jonas, Dieter & Kastenmüller, 2008). When there is a conflict between pre-existing views and information encountered, individuals will experience an unpleasant and self-threatening state of aversive-arousal which will motivate them to reduce it through selective exposure. They will begin to prefer information that supports their original decision and neglect conflicting information. Individuals will then exhibit confirmatory information to defend their positions and reach the goal of dissonance reduction. Cognitive dissonance theory insists that dissonance is a psychological state of tension that people are motivated to reduce . Dissonance causes feelings of unhappiness, discomfort, or distress. asserted the following: \"These two elements are in a dissonant relation if, considering these two alone, the obverse of one element would follow from the other.\" To reduce dissonance, people add consonant cognition or change evaluations for one or both conditions in order to make them more consistent mentally.\n\nIn Festinger's theory, there are two basic hypotheses:\n\n1) The existence of dissonance, being psychologically uncomfortable, will motivate the person to try to reduce the dissonance and achieve consonance.\n\n2) When dissonance is present, in addition to trying to reduce it, the person will actively avoid situations and information which would likely increase the dissonance .\n\nThe theory of cognitive dissonance was developed in the mid-1950s to explain why people of strong convictions are so resistant in changing their beliefs even in the face of undeniable contradictory evidence. It occurs when people feel an attachment to and responsibility for a decision, position or behavior. It increases the motivation to justify their positions through selective exposure to confirmatory information (Fischer, 2011). Fischer suggested that people have an inner need to ensure that their beliefs and behaviors are consistent. In an experiment that employed commitment manipulations, it impacts perceived decision certainty. Participants were free to choose attitude-consistent and inconsistent information to write an essay. Those who wrote an attitude-consistent essay showed higher levels of confirmatory information search (Fischer, 2011). The levels and magnitude of dissonance also play a role. Selective exposure to consistent information is likely under certain levels of dissonance. At high levels, a person is expected to seek out information that increases dissonance because the best strategy to reduce dissonance would be to alter one's attitude or decision (Smith et al., 2008).\n\nSubsequent research on selective exposure within the dissonance theory produced weak empirical support until the dissonance theory was revised and new methods, more conducive to measuring selective exposure, were implemented. To date, scholars still argue that empirical results supporting the selective exposure hypothesis are still mixed. This is possibly due to the problems with the methods of the experimental studies conducted. Another possible reason for the mixed results may be the failure to simulate an authentic media environment in the experiments.\n\nAccording to Festinger, the motivation to seek or avoid information depends on the magnitude of dissonance experienced (Smith et al., 2008). It is observed that there is a tendency for people to seek new information or select information that supports their beliefs in order to reduce dissonance.\nThere exist three possibilities which will affect extent of dissonance :\n\n\nWhen little or no dissonance exists, there is little or no motivation to seek new information. For example, when there is an absence of dissonance, the lack of motivation to attend or avoid a lecture on 'The Advantages of Automobiles with Very High Horsepower Engines' will be independent of whether the car a new owner has recently purchased has a high or low horsepower engine. However, it is important to note the difference between a situation when there is no dissonance and when the information has no relevance to the present or future behavior. For the latter, accidental exposure, which the new car owner does not avoid, will not introduce any dissonance; while for the former individual, who also does not avoid information, dissonance may be accidentally introduced.\n\n\nThe existence of dissonance and consequent pressure to reduce it will lead to an active search of information, which will then lead people to avoid information that will increase dissonance. However, when faced with a potential source of information, there will be an ambiguous cognition to which a subject will react in terms of individual expectations about it. If the subject expects the cognition to increase dissonance, they will avoid it. In the event that one's expectations are proven wrong, the attempt at dissonance reduction may result in increasing it instead. It may in turn lead to a situation of active avoidance.\n\n\nIf two cognitive elements exist in a dissonant relationship, the magnitude of dissonance matches the resistance to change. If the dissonance becomes greater than the resistance to change, then the least resistant elements of cognition will be changed, reducing dissonance. When dissonance is close to the maximum limit, one may actively seek out and expose oneself to dissonance-increasing information. If an individual can increase dissonance to the point where it is greater than the resistance to change, he will change the cognitive elements involved, reducing or even eliminating dissonance. Once dissonance is increased sufficiently, an individual may bring himself to change, hence eliminating all dissonance .\n\nThe reduction in cognitive dissonance following a decision can be achieved by selectively looking for decision-consonant information and avoiding contradictory information. The objective is to reduce the discrepancy between the cognitions, but the specification of which strategy will be chosen is not explicitly addressed by the dissonance theory. It will be dependent on the quantity and quality of the information available inside and outside the cognitive system.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Columbia University researcher Joseph T. Klapper asserted in his book \"The Effects Of Mass Communication\" that audiences were not passive targets of political and commercial propaganda from mass media but that mass media reinforces previously held convictions. Throughout the book, he argued that the media has a small amount of power to influence people and, most of the time, it just reinforces our preexisting attitudes and beliefs. He argued that the media effects of relaying or spreading new public messages or ideas were minimal because there is a wide variety of ways in which individuals filter such content. Due to this tendency, Klapper argued that media content must be able to ignite some type of cognitive activity in an individual in order to communicate its message. Prior to Klapper's research, the prevailing opinion was that mass media had a substantial power to sway individual opinion and that audiences were passive consumers of prevailing media propaganda. However, by the time of the release of \"The Effects of Mass Communication\", many studies led to a conclusion that many specifically targeted messages were completely ineffective. Klapper's research showed that individuals gravitated towards media messages that bolstered previously held convictions that were set by peer groups, societal influences, and family structures and that the accession of these messages over time did not change when presented with more recent media influence. Klapper noted from the review of research in the social science that given the abundance of content within the mass media, audiences were selective to the types of programming that they consumed. Adults would patronize media that was appropriate for their demographics and children would eschew media that was boring to them. So individuals would either accept or reject a mass media message based upon internal filters that were innate to that person.\n\nThe following are Klapper's five mediating factors and conditions to affect people:\nThree basic concepts:\n\nGroups and group norms work as mediators. For example, one can be strongly disinclined to change to the Democratic Party if their family has voted Republican for a long time. In this case, the person's predisposition to the political party is already set, so they don't perceive information about Democratic Party or change voting behavior because of mass communication. Klapper's third assumption is inter-personal dissemination of mass communication. If someone is already exposed by close friends, which creates predisposition toward something, it will lead to an increase in exposure to mass communication and eventually reinforce the existing opinion. An opinion leader is also a crucial factor to form one's predisposition and can lead someone to be exposed by mass communication. The nature of commercial mass media also leads people to select certain types of media contents.\n\nThis new model combines the motivational and cognitive processes of selective exposure. In the past, selective exposure had been studied from a motivational standpoint. For instance, the reason behind the existence of selective exposure was that people felt motivated to decrease the level of dissonance they felt while encountering inconsistent information. They also felt motivated to defend their decisions and positions, so they achieved this goal by exposing themselves to consistent information only. However, the new cognitive economy model not only takes into account the motivational aspects, but it also focuses on the cognitive processes of each individual. For instance, this model proposes that people cannot evaluate the quality of inconsistent information objectively and fairly because they tend to store more of the consistent information and use this as their reference point. Thus, inconsistent information is often observed with a more critical eye in comparison to consistent information. According to this model, the levels of selective exposure experienced during the decision-making process are also dependent on how much cognitive energy people are willing to invest. Just as people tend to be careful with their finances, cognitive energy or how much time they are willing to spend evaluating all the evidence for their decisions works the same way. People are hesitant to use this energy; they tend to be careful so they don't waste it. Thus, this model suggests that selective exposure does not happen in separate stages. Rather, it is a combined process of the individuals' certain acts of motivations and their management of the cognitive energy.\n\nRecent studies have shown relevant empirical evidence for the pervasive influence of selective exposure on the greater population at large due to mass media. Researchers have found that individual media consumers will seek out programs to suit their individual emotional and cognitive needs. Individuals will seek out palliative forms of media during the recent times of economic crisis to fulfill a \"strong surveillance need\" and to decrease chronic dissatisfaction with life circumstances as well as fulfill needs for companionship. Consumers tend to select media content that exposes and confirms their own ideas while avoiding information that argues against their opinion. A study conducted in 2012 has shown that this type of selective exposure affects pornography consumption as well. Individuals with low levels of life satisfaction are more likely to have casual sex after consumption of pornography that is congruent with their attitudes while disregarding content that challenges their inherently permissive 'no strings attached' attitudes.\n\nMusic selection is also affected by selective exposure. A 2014 study conducted by Christa L. Taylor and Ronald S. Friedman at the SUNY University at Albany, found that mood congruence was effected by self-regulation of music mood choices. Subjects in the study chose happy music when feeling angry or neutral but listened to sad music when they themselves were sad. The choice of sad music given a sad mood was due less to mood-mirroring but as a result of subjects having an aversion to listening to happy music that was cognitively dissonant with their mood.\n\nPolitics are more likely to inspire selective exposure among consumers as opposed to single exposure decisions. For example, in their 2009 meta-analysis of Selective Exposure Theory, Hart et al. reported that \"A 2004 survey by The Pew Research Center for the People & the Press (2006) found that Republicans are about 1.5 times more likely to report watching Fox News regularly than are Democrats (34% for Republicans and 20% of Democrats). In contrast, Democrats are 1.5 times more likely to report watching CNN regularly than Republicans (28% of Democrats vs. 19% of Republicans). Even more striking, Republicans are approximately five times more likely than Democrats to report watching \"The O'Reilly Factor\" regularly and are seven times more likely to report listening to \"Rush Limbaugh\" regularly.\" As a result, when the opinions of Republicans who only tune into conservative media outlets were compared to those of their fellow conservatives in a study by Stroud (2010), their beliefs were considered to be more polarized. The same result was retrieved from the study of liberals as well. Due to our greater tendency toward selective exposure, current political campaigns have been characterized as being extremely partisan and polarized. As Bennett and Iyengar (2008) commented, \"The new, more diversified information environment makes it not only more feasible for consumers to seek out news they might find agreeable but also provides a strong economic incentive for news organizations to cater to their viewers' political preferences.\" Selective exposure thus plays a role in shaping and reinforcing individuals' political attitudes. \n\nIn early research, selective exposure originally provided an explanation for limited media effects. The \"limited effects\" model of communication emerged in the 1940s with a shift in the media effects paradigm. This shift suggested that while the media has effects on consumers' behavior such as their voting behavior, these effects are limited and influenced indirectly by interpersonal discussions and the influence of opinion leaders. Selective exposure was considered one necessary function in the early studies of media's limited power over citizens' attitudes and behaviors. Political ads deal with selective exposure as well because people are more likely to favor a politician that agrees with their own beliefs. Another significant effect of selective exposure comes from Stroud (2010) who analyzed the relationship between partisan selective exposure and political polarization. Using data from the 2004 National Annenberg Election Survey, analysts found that over time partisan selective exposure leads to polarization. This process is plausible because people can easily create or have access to blogs, websites, chats, and online forums where those with similar views and political ideologies can congregate. Much of the research has also shown that political interaction online tends to be polarized. Further evidence for this polarization in the political blogosphere can be found in the Lawrence et al. (2010)'s study on blog readership that people tend to read blogs that reinforce rather than challenge their political beliefs. According to Cass Sunstein's book, \"Republic.com\", the presence of selective exposure on the web creates an environment that breeds political polarization and extremism. Due to easy access to social media and other online resources, people are \" likely to hold even stronger views than the ones they started with, and when these views are problematic, they are likely to manifest increasing hatred toward those espousing contrary beliefs.\" This illustrates how selective exposure can influence an individual's political beliefs and subsequently his participation in the political system.\n\nOne of the major academic debates on the concept of selective exposure is whether selective exposure contributes to people's exposure to diverse viewpoints or polarization. Scheufele and Nisbet (2012) discuss the effects of encountering disagreement on democratic citizenship. Ideally, true civil deliberation among citizens would be the rational exchange of non-like-minded views (or disagreement). However, many of us tend to avoid disagreement on a regular basis because we do not like to confront with others who hold views that are strongly opposed to our own. In this sense, the authors question about whether exposure to non-like-minded information brings either positive or negative effects on democratic citizenship. While there are mixed findings of peoples' willingness to participate in the political processes when they encounter disagreement, the authors argue that the issue of selectivity needs to be further examined in order to understand whether there is a truly deliberative discourse in online media environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "5701391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5701391", "title": "Stone circles (Hong Kong)", "text": "Stone circles (Hong Kong)\n\nStone Circles can be found in Hong Kong, as the area is rich in Neolithic and Bronze Age artifacts.\n\nLo Ah Tsai Stone Circle was discovered in the northern part of Lamma Island by K M A Barnett, District Commissioner of the New Territories in 1956. Twenty eight large stones, lying buried in the earth on a slope above sea level, form two overlapping stones circles.\n\nThis stone circle was investigated by the Hong Kong University Archaeological Team in 1959, 1963 and 1982 respectively.\n\nAnother stone circle was discovered at Fan Lau, on Lantau Island in 1980. () It lies above sea level. This stone circle is a Declared monument in Hong Kong. The use of the stone circle is unknown, it was possibly used for rituals, or possibly not. It is assumed that it is a megalithic structure created during the late Neolithic (i.e. New Stone Age) and early Bronze Age.\n\n"}
{"id": "37454487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37454487", "title": "Tangutology", "text": "Tangutology\n\nTangutology or Tangut studies is the study of the culture, history, art and language of the ancient Tangut people, especially as seen through the study of contemporary documents written by the Tangut people themselves. As the Tanguts spoke an extinct language written in a unique and complex script, the cornerstone of Tangut studies has been the study of the Tangut language and the decipherment of the Tangut script.\n\nThe Tangut people founded the Western Xia state (1038–1227) in northwestern China, which was eventually overthrown by the Mongols. The Tangut script, which was devised in 1036, was widely used in printed books and on monumental inscriptions during the Western Xia period, as well as during the Yuan Dynasty (1271–1368), but the language became extinct sometime during the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644). The latest known example of Tangut writing are Buddhist inscriptions dated 1502 on two dharani pillars from a temple in Baoding, Hebei. By the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911) all knowledge of the Tangut language and script had been lost, and no examples or descriptions of the Tangut script had been preserved in any surviving Chinese books from the Song, Yuan or Ming dynasties. It was not until the 19th century that the Tangut language and script was rediscovered.\n\nThe earliest modern identification of the Tangut script occurred in 1804, when a Chinese scholar called Zhang Shu (, 1781–1847) observed that the Chinese text of a Chinese-Tangut bilingual inscription on a stele at the Huguo Temple (護國寺) in Wuwei, Gansu had a Western Xia era name, and so concluded that the corresponding inscription in an unknown script must be the native Western Xia script; and hence the unknown writing in the same style on the Cloud Platform at Juyongguan at the Great Wall of China north of Beijing must also be the Tangut script.\n\nHowever, Zhang's identification of the Tangut script was not widely known, and more than a half a century later scholars were still debating what the unknown script at the Cloud Platform was. The Cloud Platform, which had been built in 1343–1345 as the base for a pagoda, was inscribed with Buddhist texts in six different scripts (Chinese, Sanskrit, 'Phags-pa, Tibetan, Old Uyghur and Tangut), but only the first five of these six were known to Chinese and Western scholars at the time. In 1870 Alexander Wylie (1815–1887) wrote an influential paper entitled \"An ancient Buddhist inscription at Keu-yung Kwan\" in which he asserted that the unknown script was Jurchen, and it was not until 1899 that Stephen Wootton Bushell (1844–1908) published a paper demonstrating conclusively that the unknown script was in fact Tangut.\n\nBushell, a physician at the British Legation in Beijing from 1868 to 1900, was a keen numismatist, and had collected a number of coins issued by the Western Xia state with inscriptions in the Tangut script. In order to read the inscriptions on these coins he attempted to decipher as many Tangut characters as possible by comparing the Chinese and Tangut texts on a bilingual stele from Liangzhou. In 1896 he published a list of thirty-seven Tangut characters with their corresponding meaning in Chinese, and using this key he was able to decipher the four-character inscription on one of his Western Xia coins as meaning \"Precious Coin of the Da'an period [1076–1085]\" (corresponding to the Chinese \"Dà'ān Bǎoqián\" 大安寶錢). This was the first time that an unknown Tangut text, albeit only four characters in length, had been translated.\n\nAt about the same time as Bushell was working on Tangut numismatic inscriptions, Georges Morisse, an interpreter at the French Legation in Beijing, had been attempting to decipher the Tangut script by means of three volumes of the Tangut translation of the Lotus Sutra (Sanskrit: \"\") that he had found in Beijing in 1900 during the aftermath of the Boxer Rebellion. By comparing the Tangut version of the sutra with the corresponding Chinese version of the sutra, Morisse was able to identify some 200 Tangut characters, and deduce some grammatical rules for Tangut, which he published in 1901.\n\nThe paucity of surviving Tangut texts and inscriptions, and in particular the lack of any dictionary or glossary of the language, meant that it was difficult for scholars to go beyond the preliminary work on the decipherment of Tangut by Bushell and Morisse. The breakthrough in Tangut studies finally came in 1908 when Pyotr Kozlov discovered the abandoned Western Xia fortress city of Khara-Khoto on the edge of the Gobi Desert in Inner Mongolia. Khara-Khoto had been abruptly abandoned at the beginning of the Ming Dynasty, and, partially covered by sand, it had remained largely untouched for over 500 years. Inside a large stupa outside the city walls Kozlov discovered a hoard of some 2,000 printed books and manuscripts, mostly in Chinese and Tangut, as well as many pieces of Tangut Buddhist art, which he sent back to the Russian Geographical Society in Saint Petersburg for preservation and study. The material was subsequently transferred to the Asiatic Museum of the Academy of Sciences, which later became the Saint Petersburg branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences (now the Institute of Oriental Manuscripts). It was the discovery of this unprecedented hoard of Tangut material by Kozlov that led to the development of Tangutology as a separate academic discipline within the field of oriental studies.\n\nAfter the arrival of the Khara-Khoto material in Saint Petersburg in autumn 1909, sinologist Aleksei Ivanovich Ivanov (1878–1937) worked on the preservation and identification of the hundreds of books and manuscripts that were written in the Tangut script, and it was not long before he discovered a bilingual Chinese-Tangut glossary called the \"Pearl in the Palm\" () which he immediately realised was the key to deciphering the Tangut language. He later discovered three monolingual Tangut dictionaries and glossaries among the Khara-Khoto material: \"Homophones\" (); \"Sea of Characters\" (); and \"Mixed Characters\" (). Ivanov published a number of articles on the Tangut script between 1909 and 1920, which helped disseminate knowledge of the Tangut script, and encouraged other scholars to study the language. In 1916, based on the material published by Ivanov, the German orientalist Berthold Laufer (1874–1934) published a study of the Tangut language in which he attempted to reconstruct the pronunciations of some characters, and in which he proposed that the Tangut language belonged to the Lolo-Moso branch of the Tibeto-Burman family.\n\nBased on the \"Pearl in the Palm\" and the other dictionaries, Ivanov was able to compile a short dictionary of about 3,000 Tangut characters. His dictionary was completed in 1918, but it was not published due to the political instability of the time. Ivanov deposited the manuscript of his dictionary at the Asiatic Museum, but he took it back home in 1922, and it disappeared after his arrest and execution in 1937, a victim of Stalin's Great Purge.\n\nFollowing on from Ivanov was Nikolai Aleksandrovich Nevsky (1892–1937). Nevsky had been resident in Japan since 1915, where he had studied the Japanese, Ainu and Tsou languages, but after he met Ivanov in China in 1925 he started to work on the study of the Tangut texts from Khara-Khoto and the decipherment of the Tangut script. In 1929 Nevsky moved back to the Soviet Union to work at the Institute of Oriental Studies in Leningrad, where he worked on a dictionary of Tangut based on the lexical materials found at Khara-Khoto. However, in late autumn 1937, before his dictionary was ready for publication, he and his Japanese wife were arrested and executed, thereby bringing a brutal end to the study of the Tangut language in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1912 the renowned antiquarian Luo Zhenyu (1866–1940) met Ivanov in Saint Petersburg, and he was allowed to make a copy of nine pages from the \"Pearl in the Palm\", which he published in China in the same year. He met Ivanov again in 1922 in Tianjin, and obtained a complete copy of the \"Pearl in the Palm\", which was subsequently published by his eldest son, Luo Fucheng 羅福成 (1885–1960), in 1924. Luo Fucheng also published the first facsimile edition of the \"Homophones\" in 1935. Luo's third son, Luo Fuchang 羅福萇 (1896–1921) shared the family's interest in Tangut, and wrote an influential handbook on the Tangut script when he was just eighteen years old.\n\nFurther discoveries of Tangut texts were made in China, most notably a cache of Buddhist sutras in five pottery jars that were unearthed in Lingwu in Ningxia in 1917. These texts were sent to Peiping, and form the nucleus of the Tangut collection of the National Library of China. A special issue of the \"Bulletin of the National Library of Peiping\" dedicated to these texts was published in 1932, with articles written by a variety of Chinese, Japanese and Russian scholars (Luo Fucheng, Wang Jingru, Ishihama Juntarō 石滨纯太郎, Ivanov, and Nevsky).\n\nDuring the late 1920s and early 1930s, a number of scholars, including Nevsky in Russia, Laufer in Germany, Wang Jingru 王靜如 (1903–1990) in China, and Stuart N. Wolfenden (1889–1938) at the University of California, Berkeley in the USA, focussed their attention on several manuscripts from Khara-Khoto that had Tibetan phonetic glosses to Tangut texts, which enabled them to reconstruct some of the phonetic features of Tangut.\n\nMeanwhile, in England, Gerard Clauson (1891–1974) had started to study the thousands of Tangut manuscript fragments that had been recovered from Khara-Khoto between 1913 and 1916 by Aurel Stein, and deposited at the British Museum in London. During 1937 and 1938 Clauson wrote a \"Skeleton dictionary of the Hsi-hsia language\", which was published in facsimile in 2016.\n\nHowever, with the Second Sino-Japanese War raging in the Far East, and political repression in the Soviet Union, Tangut studies ground to a halt in China, Japan and the Soviet Union during the late 1930s. With the onset of World War II Tangut studies stagnated in Europe and America as well.\n\nIt was more than ten years after the end of World War II before there was a resurgence in Tangut studies. The first post-war scholar to turn his hand to Tangut was of Kyoto University who started off by studying the Tangut Buddhist inscription on the Cloud Platform in the mid-1950s, and went on to become the pre-eminent Japanese scholar of Tangut for the next fifty years. In 1964–1966 Nishida produced a monumental work on the reconstruction of Tangut phonology and decipherment of Tangut characters, which included a dictionary of about 3,000 characters.\n\nNishida also made studies of the \"Flower Garland Sutra\" (1975–1977) and Tangut ritual poems (1986). In order to explain the fact that in some ritual poems each line was written twice using different vocabulary and different grammatical structures, Nishida proposed that there were two different Tangut language registers: most Tangut text represented the language of the ordinary Tangut people (the \"red-faced people\"), but the ritual poems represented the language of the ruling class (the \"black-headed people\"), the latter preserving a linguistic substratum that had been lost in ordinary Tangut speech.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, Tangut studies were given a kickstart by the posthumous publication of Nevsky's \"magnum opus\", \"Tangut Philology\", in 1960, which won the Lenin Prize in 1962. The main part of \"Tangut Philology\" was a thousand-page manuscript draft dictionary of Tangut, which was the first modern dictionary of Tangut to be published, and opened up the study of Tangut texts to a new generation of scholars. During the 1960s a group of young scholars at the Institute of Oriental Manuscripts in Leningrad, led by E. I. Kychanov, started to study and translate the huge hoard of Tangut texts that had been brought back from Khara-Khoto nearly half a century earlier. One of the main fruits of this research was a scholarly edition by Kychanov, Ksenia Kepping, V. S. Kolokolov, and A. P. Terent'ev-Katanskij of the Tangut monolingual rhyming dictionary, the \"Sea of Characters\" (1969). Kolokolov and Kychanov had previously worked on an edition of the Tangut translations of the Chinese Confucian classics, which was especially noteworthy because the texts were written in a cursive form of the Tangut script which was very hard to read. Kepping, whose early research made important contributions to the understanding of Tangut grammar, went on to translate the Tangut translation of the Chinese military treatise \"Sun Tzu\" (1979). Kepping also extended Nishida's theory of two different types of Tangut language, proposing that one style of language represented the \"common language\" and the other style of language represented a \"ritual language\" that had been created by Tangut shamans for ritual purposes prior to the adoption of Buddhism. Terent'ev-Katanskij went on to produce a treatise on the technical features of Tangut books (1981). Another influential Russian scholar was Mikhail Sofronov, who in 1968 published an influential \"Grammar of the Tangut Language\".\n\nIn addition to working on the Tangut language and script, scholars such as Kychanov and Kepping also made important contributions to the understanding of Tangut history, society and religion. In 1968 Kychanov published an historical sketch of the Tangut state that provided the first systematic overview of Tangut history. Kepping studied the relationship between state and religion during the Western Xia, and advocated the theory that the practice of Tantric Buddhism by the Emperor and Empress was central to the running of the Tangut state.\n\nIn China, Tangut studies were slower to resume, and progress was hindered by the Cultural Revolution, so it was not until the second half of the 1970s that any significant research on Tangut was published. One of the first of a new generation of Tangutologists was Li Fanwen, who started his career excavating fragments of Tangut epitaphs from the Western Xia imperial tombs during the early 1970s, then published a study of the \"Homophones\" in 1976, and went on to publish the first comprehensive Tangut-Chinese dictionary in 1997. Other young scholars included Shi Jinbo, Bai Bin and Huang Zhenhua, who together produced an important study and translation of the \"Sea of Characters\" in 1983.\n\nIn Taiwan, Gong Hwang-cherng (1934–2010), who specialized in Sino-Tibetan comparative linguistics, worked on Tangut phonology, and provided the phonetic reconstructions for Li Fanwen's 1997 dictionary.\nA number of important archaeological discoveries were made in China during this period, perhaps the most significant being the discovery of various historical and religious artefacts, as well as a number of Tangut manuscripts and printed texts, in the ruins of the Baisigou Square Pagoda in Ningxia in 1991 after it had been illegally blown up. These included a previously unknown Tangut Buddhist text, the \"Auspicious Tantra of All-Reaching Union\", which is thought to have been printed during the second half of the 12th century, and is believed to be the earliest extant example of a book printed using wooden movable type.\n\nTangut Buddhism has also been an important topic of study for Chinese scholars. In 1988 Shi Jinbo produced an influential overview of Tangut Buddhism and Tangut Buddhist art. Another scholar in this field is Xie Jisheng, who has made studies of Tangut Thangkas and has explored the influence of Tibetan Tantric Buddhism on Tangut Buddhist art.\n\nIn America there have been few scholars working on Tangut. During the 1970s Luc Kwanten worked on Tangu foreign relations, and in 1982 he published a study of the Tangut-Chinese glossary, the \"Pearl in the Palm\". However, the leading expert on Western Xia history and the Tangut people in the USA is Ruth W. Dunnell. In 1988 Dunnell made a study and translation of a bilingual Tangut and Chinese inscription on a stele erected in 1094, and in 1996 she published an influential book entitled \"The Great State of White and High: Buddhism and State Foundation in Eleventh-Century Xia\" in which she examined the relationship between the Tanguts and their neighbours, and the role of the Buddhism in the Tangut state.\n\nFollowing in Clauson's tracks was Eric Grinstead, originally from New Zealand, who worked at the British Museum during the 1960s. He identified a unique Tangut translation of a Chinese work on military strategy ascribed to Zhuge Liang entitled \"The General's Garden\" in the British Museum's Stein Collection, and edited a facsimile compilation of Tangut Buddhist texts in nine volumes, published in 1971 under the title \"The Tangut Tripitaka\". Grinstead's major publication was his \"Analysis of the Tangut Script\" (1972) in which he analysed the structure of the Tangut script, and assigned a four-digit 'Telecode' number to each Tangut character in an early attempt to assign standard codes to characters for use in computer processing of Tangut text.\n\nSince the late 1990s a new generation of Tangutologists has emerged. In China, a number of young scholars have made important contributions to Tangutology: Sun Bojun 孫伯君 has worked on Tangut translations of Sanskrit texts; Tai Chung-pui 戴忠沛 has made studies of Tibetan phonetic glosses of Tangut texts; and Han Xiaomang 韩小忙 has attempted to define the orthographic forms of Tangut characters. In Japan, Arakawa Shintarō (b. 1971) has concentrated on Tangut phonology, and produced a rhyming dictionary of Tangut. In the USA, Marc Miyake has attempted to reconstruct a hypothetical ancestor to the Tangut language which he calls Pre-Tangut. In France, Guillaume Jacques has furthered the understanding of the verb in Tangut language. In the UK, Imre Galambos has continued the work of Grinstead in the study of Tangut manuscripts from Khara-Khoto held at the British Library, in particular \"The General's Garden\".\n\nEstablished Tangutologists have also continued to make important contributions. Li Fanwen published a revised and extended edition of his Tangut-Chinese dictionary (2008), and Kychanov and Arakawa produced a Tangut-Russian-English-Chinese dictionary (2006). Both these dictionaries used computer typeset Tangut, and in recent years proposals have been made to encode the Tangut script in Unicode.\n\nThe ability for scholars around the world to study original Tangut documents has been greatly improved by the digitization of Tangut manuscripts from Khara-Khoto and elsewhere by the International Dunhuang Project (IDP), established by the British Library in 1994. the online IDP database included 1,110 catalogue entries and 684 images for Tangut manuscripts and printed texts held at the British Library in London, the Institute of Oriental Manuscripts in Saint Petersburg, Academia Sinica in Taipei and Princeton University Library.\n\nIn 2010 the Ningxia Academy of Social Sciences started to publish a quarterly journal entitled \"Tangut Research\" (), which is the first regular academic journal devoted exclusively to Tangut studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13756349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13756349", "title": "To Hell with the Goddamn Spring", "text": "To Hell with the Goddamn Spring\n\nTo Hell with the Goddamn Spring () is a Colombian play, based on the novel of the same name by Alonso Sánchez Baute (which won the Opera prima award in 2002). It was adapted for the theatre by Colombian director Jorge Ali Triana in 2004.\n\nThe play is a monologue given by an average bureaucrat called Edwin Rodríguez Vuelvas, who gradually transforms himself into a drag queen while expressing inner angst and sorrow. The character is reminiscent of Molly Bloom in James Joyce´s \"Ulysses\"; the story also contains elements taken from Proust, kitsch glamour and a sense of ridiculous that recalls the antics of Groucho Marx. The play offers a criticism of intolerance, both from society in general and from within the LGBT community.\n\nEdwin Rodriguez represents the gay men who migrate from the small cities and provinces of the country to the capital in search of an environment in which they may express themselves more freely. Colombian actor Orlando Valenzuela was chosen for the role based on his experience in the contemporary theatre in Spain and traditional Japanese kabuki theatre.\n\nThe character begins by narrating the present state of his life: his unrewarding, superfluous bureaucratic job, the relative wealth he enjoys, and his successes in the drag queen beauty contests. It moves on to his memories of his troubled childhood in the Caribbean Region of Colombia. By the time he has transformed, he enjoys moments of temporary happiness as he wins a contest. This concludes with sadness, as he recalls the solitude and emptiness of his life. The final section of the monologue, from which the title of the play is taken, expresses the nihilism that has come to invade the character's attitudes.\n\nThe words quoted are nothing more than the lyrics of \"Maldita primavera\", a popular song first sung in Spanish by Yuri in 1982 and then by others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7504825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7504825", "title": "Underlying representation", "text": "Underlying representation\n\nIn some models of phonology as well as morphophonology in the field of linguistics, the underlying representation (UR) or underlying form (UF) of a word or morpheme is the abstract form that a word or morpheme is postulated to have before any phonological rules have applied to it. By contrast, a surface representation is the phonetic representation of the word or sound. The concept of an underlying representation is central to generative grammar. \n\nIf more phonological rules apply to the same underlying form, they can apply wholly independently of each other or in a feeding or counterbleeding order. The underlying representation of a morpheme is considered to be invariable across related forms (except in cases of suppletion), despite alternations among various allophones on the surface.\n\nIn many cases, the underlying form is simply the phonemic form. For example, in many varieties of American English, the phoneme in a word like \"wet\" can surface either as a glottalized or as a flap , depending on environment: \"wet\" vs. \"wetter\". (In both cases, however, the underlying representation of the morpheme \"wet\" is the same: its phonemic form .)\n\nPhonological rules may change the phonemes involved. In such cases, pipes (\"|\") or double slashes may be used in transcription to distinguish the underlying form from its phonemic realization. For example, the word \"cats\" has the phonemic representation . If it is assumed that the underlying form of the English plural suffix is a sound, the underlying form of \"cats\" would be . (The surfaces as an because of the phonological process of devoicing after an unvoiced consonant.)\n\nSandhi, such as tone sandhi in Chinese, is another phonological process that changes the phonemes of a morpheme from its underlying form.\n\n"}
{"id": "1900272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1900272", "title": "United Nations Security Council veto power", "text": "United Nations Security Council veto power\n\nThe United Nations Security Council \"veto power\" refers to the power of the permanent members of the UN Security Council (China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and United States) to veto any \"substantive\" resolution. A permanent member's abstention or absence does not prevent a draft resolution from being adopted. This veto power does not apply to \"procedural\" votes, as determined by the permanent members themselves. A permanent member can also block the selection of a Secretary-General, although a formal veto is unnecessary since the vote is taken behind closed doors.\n\nThe unconditional veto possessed by the five governments has been seen by critics as the most undemocratic character of the UN. Critics also claim that veto power is the main cause for international inaction on war crimes and crimes against humanity. However, the United States refused to join the United Nations in 1945 unless it was given a veto. The absence of the United States from the League of Nations contributed to its ineffectiveness. Supporters of the veto power regard it as a promoter of international stability, a check against military interventions, and a critical safeguard against U.S. domination.\n\nArticle 27 of the United Nations Charter states:\n\n\nAlthough the \"power of veto\" is not explicitly mentioned in the UN Charter, the fact that \"substantive\" decisions by the UNSC require \"the concurring votes of the permanent members\", means that any of those permanent members can prevent the adoption, by the Council, of any draft resolutions on \"substantive\" matters. For this reason, the \"power of veto\" is also referred to as the principle of \"great power unanimity\" and the veto itself is sometimes referred to as the \"great power veto\".\n\nThe idea of states having a veto over the actions of international organisations was not new in 1945. From the foundation of the League of Nations in 1920, each member of the League Council, whether permanent or non-permanent, had a veto on any non-procedural issue. From 1920 there were 4 permanent and 4 non-permanent members, but by 1936 the number of non-permanent members had increased to 11. Thus there were in effect 15 vetoes. This was one of several defects of the League that made action on many issues impossible.\n\nThe UN Charter provides for unanimity among the Permanent Members of the Security Council (the veto) was the result of extensive discussion, including at Dumbarton Oaks (August–October 1944) and Yalta (February 1945). The evidence is that the UK, US, USSR, and France all favoured the principle of unanimity and that they were motivated in this not only by a belief in the desirability of the major powers acting together but also by a concern to protect their own sovereign rights and national interest. Truman, who became President of the US in April 1945, went so far as to write in his memoirs: \"All our experts, civil and military, favored it, and without such a veto no arrangement would have passed the Senate.\"\n\nThe veto was forced on all other governments by the (soon to be) five veto holders. In the negotiations building up to the creation of the UN, the veto power was resented by many small countries, and in fact was forced on them by the veto nations – US, UK, China, France and the Soviet Union – through a threat that without the veto there would be no UN. Francis O. Wilcox, an adviser to US delegation to the 1945 conference described it: \"At San Francisco, the issue was made crystal clear by the leaders of the Big Five: it was either the Charter with the veto or no Charter at all. Senator Connally [from the US delegation] dramatically tore up a copy of the Charter during one of his speeches and reminded the small states that they would be guilty of that same if they opposed the unanimity principle. \"You may, if you wish,\" he said, \"go home from this Conference and say that you have defeated the veto. But what will be your answer when you are asked: 'Where is the Charter'?\"\n\nThe United Nations Security Council veto system was established in order to prohibit the UN from taking any future action directly against its principal founding members. One of the lessons of the League of Nations (1919–46) had been that an international organisation cannot work if all the major powers are not members. The expulsion of the Soviet Union from the League of Nations in December 1939, following its November 1939 attack on Finland soon after the outbreak of World War II, was just one of many events in the League's long history of incomplete membership.\n\nIt had already been decided at the UN's founding conference in 1944, that United Kingdom, China, the Soviet Union, the United States and, \"in due course\" France, should be the permanent members of any newly formed Council. France had been defeated and occupied by Germany (1940–44), but its role as a permanent member of the League of Nations, its status as a colonial power and the activities of the Free French forces on the allied side allowed it a place at the table with the other four.\n\nThe actual use of the veto, and the constant possibility of its use, have been central features of the functioning of the Security Council throughout the UN's history. In the period from 1945 to the end of 2009, 215 resolutions on substantive issues were vetoed, sometimes by more than one of the P5. The average number of vetoes cast each year to 1989 was over five: since then the average annual number has been just above one.\n\nThe figures reflect the fact that a Permanent Member of the Security Council can avoid casting a veto if the proposal in question does not in any event obtain the requisite majority. In the first two decades of the UN, the Western states were frequently able to defeat resolutions without actually using the veto; and the Soviet Union was in this position in the 1970s and 1980s. Use of the veto has reflected a degree of diplomatic isolation of the vetoing state(s) on the particular issue. Because of the use or threat of the veto, the Security Council could at best have a limited role in certain wars and interventions in which its Permanent Members were involved – for example in Algeria (1954–62); Suez (1956), Hungary (1956), Vietnam (1946–75), the Sino-Vietnamese war (1979), Afghanistan (1979–88), Panama (1989), Iraq (2003), and Georgia (2008).\n\nNot all cases of UN inaction in crises have been due to the actual use of the veto. For example, re the Iran–Iraq war of 1980–88 there was no use of the veto, but the UN role was minimal except in its concluding phase. Likewise, the limited involvement of the UN in the crisis in the Darfur region of Sudan from 2003 onwards was not due to any actual use of the veto.\n\nSince 1990 the veto has been used sparingly. The period from 31 May 1990 to 11 May 1993 was the longest without the use of the veto in the history of the UN. Up until the end of 1989, the number of resolutions passed by the Security Council had been 646 – an average of about 15 per annum. The figures for the years since then show a peak of Security Council activism in 1993, followed by a modest degree of retrenchment.\n\nIn 1950 the Soviet Union missed one important opportunity to exercise its veto power. The Soviet government had adopted an \"empty chair\" policy at the Security Council from January 1950, owing to its discontent over the UN's refusal to recognise the People's Republic of China's representatives as the legitimate representatives of China, and with the hope of preventing any future decisions by the Council on substantive matters. Despite the wording of the Charter (which makes no provisions for passing resolutions with the abstention or absence of a veto-bearing member), this was treated as a non-blocking abstention. This had in fact already become Council practice by that time, the Council has already adopted numerous draft resolutions despite the lack of an affirmative vote by each of its permanent members. The result of the Soviet Union's absence from the Security Council was that it was not in a position to veto the UN Security Council resolutions 83 (27 June 1950) and 84 (7 July 1950) authorising the US-led military coalition in Korea that assisted South Korea in repelling the North Korean attack.\n\nThe veto power can also be used to block the selection of a Secretary-General. However, this is not counted as a veto of a Security Council Resolution, because the Security Council is only issuing a \"recommendation\" to the General Assembly. Since 1981, no Secretary-General has been formally vetoed, because the Security Council does not vote until they have already agreed on a Secretary-General in a series of straw polls. A vote by a permanent member to \"discourage\" a candidate is considered equivalent to a veto, and the candidate will withdraw from the race without forcing a formal veto. The formal recommendation of a Secretary-General is approved unanimously by acclamation.\n\nEvery permanent member has vetoed at least one candidate for Secretary-General. The United States circumvented the Soviet veto in 1950 by asking the General Assembly to vote on Trygve Lie's reappointment without a recommendation from the Security Council. However, every Secretary-General since 1953 has been recommended by a unanimous vote of the permanent members of the Security Council. Vetoes have not been recorded publicly since 1981, because the straw poll is taken by secret ballot. However, countries may announce their votes to encourage the rotating members to vote for another candidate.\n\nIn the history of the Security Council, almost half the vetoes were cast by the Soviet Union, with the vast majority of those being before 1965.\n\nSince 1966, out of the total 153 vetoes cast, 119 were issued by one of the council's three NATO members: the US, the UK and France.\n\nFrom 1946 to 2016, vetoes were issued on 258 occasions. For that period, usage breaks down as follows:\n\nThe following list describes the most recent veto from each of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. France and the United Kingdom have not vetoed any resolutions since 1989. However, China, Russia, and the United States have all exercised their veto power in 2017.\n\n\nBetween 1946 and 1971, the Chinese seat on the Security Council was the government of the Republic of China (that retreated to Taiwan in 1949) during which time its representative used the veto only once, to block Mongolia's application for membership in 1955, because the ROC considered the country to be a part of China. This postponed the admission of Mongolia until 1961, when the Soviet Union announced that unless Mongolia was admitted, it would block the admission of all of the newly independent African states. Faced with this pressure, the ROC relented under protest.\n\nAfter the Republic of China's expulsion from the United Nations in 1971, the first veto cast by the present occupant, the People's Republic of China, was issued on 25 August 1972 over Bangladesh's admission to the United Nations. As of February 2017, the People's Republic of China has used its veto eleven times. Observers have noted a preference for China to abstain rather than the veto on resolutions not directly related to Chinese interests.\n\nIn the early days of the United Nations, the Soviet Union commissar and later minister for foreign affairs, Vyacheslav Molotov, vetoed resolutions so many times that he was known as \"Mr. Veto\". In fact, the Soviet Union was responsible for nearly half of all vetoes ever cast—79 vetoes were used in the first 10 years. Molotov regularly rejected bids for new membership because of the US's refusal to admit all of the Soviet republics. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Russia used its veto power sparingly. However, its use of the veto increased in the late 2000s and 2010s, due to a number of resolutions on conflicts that it was involved militarily in, including Georgia, Syria and Ukraine.\n\nFrance uses its veto power sparingly. The last time it unilaterally vetoed a draft was in 1976 to block a resolution on the question of the independence of the Comoros, which was done to keep the island of Mayotte as a French overseas community. It also vetoed, along with U.K, a resolution calling on the immediate cessation of military action by the Israeli army against Egypt in 1956 during the Suez Crisis. The last time France used its veto power was in December 1989 concerning the situation in Panama. In 2003, the threat of a French veto of resolution on the impending invasion of Iraq caused friction between France and the United States.\n\nThe United Kingdom has used its Security Council veto power on 32 occasions. The first occurrence was in October 1956 when the United Kingdom and France vetoed a letter from the USA to the President of the Security Council concerning Palestine. The most recent was in December 1989 when the United Kingdom, France and the United States vetoed a draft resolution condemning the United States invasion of Panama.\n\nThe United Kingdom used its veto power, along with France, to veto a draft resolution aimed at resolving the Suez Canal crisis (in which France and UK were militarily involved) in 1956. The UK and France eventually withdrew from Egypt after the U.S. instigated an 'emergency special session' of the General Assembly, under the terms of the \"Uniting for Peace\" resolution, which led to the establishment of the United Nations Emergency Force I (UNEF I), by the adoption of Assembly resolution 1001. The UK also used its veto seven times in relation to Rhodesia from 1963 to 1973, five of these occasions were unilateral; the only occasions on which the UK has used its veto power unilaterally.\n\nAmbassador Charles W. Yost cast the first U.S. veto in 1970, regarding a crisis in Rhodesia, and the U.S. cast a lone veto in 1972 to block a resolution that condemned Israel for war against Syria and Lebanon. Since that time it has become the most frequent user of veto power, mainly on resolutions criticising and condemning Israel and almost always unilaterally for war and human rights violations; since 2002, the Negroponte doctrine has been applied for the use of a veto on resolutions relating to the ongoing Israel-Palestinian conflict. This has been a constant cause of friction between the General Assembly and the Security Council. On 18 February 2011, the Obama administration vetoed resolutions condemning Israeli settlements. On 23 December 2016, the Obama administration allowed a resolution calling for an end to Israeli settlements to pass.\n\nThe veto power has brought criticism to the Security Council. As it stands, a veto from any of the permanent members can halt any possible action the Council may take. One country's objection, rather than the opinions of a majority of countries, may cripple any possible UN armed or diplomatic response to a crisis.\nFor instance, John J. Mearsheimer claimed that \"since 1982, the US has vetoed 32 Security Council resolutions critical of Israel, more than the total number of vetoes cast by all the other Security Council members.\" Since candidates for the Security Council are proposed by regional blocs, the Arab League and its allies are usually included but Israel, which joined the UN in 1949, has never been elected to the Security Council. The Council has repeatedly condemned Israel. On the other hand, critics contend that, while Israel has the United States to rely on to veto any pertinent legislation against it, the Palestinians lack any such power.\n\nApart from the US, several resolutions have been vetoed by Russia, notably attempts to impose sanctions on Syria during the Syrian Civil War and to condemn Russia's own annexation of Crimea in 2014. In the case of the latter, Russia's lone veto over-ruled the thirteen other votes in favour of the condemnation. As part of the Soviet Union, Russia also vetoed a UN resolution condemning the USSR's shooting down of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 in 1983. The veto has been singled out as a threat to human rights, with Amnesty International claiming that the five permanent members had used their veto to \"promote their political self interest or geopolitical interest above the interest of protecting civilians.\" As of 2015, Amnesty International has suggested that a solution would involve the five permanent members surrendering their veto on issues of genocide.\n\nSome see the fact that veto power exclusive to the permanent five as being anachronistic, unjust, or counterproductive. Peter Nadin writes that \"The veto is an anachronism ... In the twenty-first century, the veto has come to be almost universally seen as a disproportionate power and an impediment to credible international action to crises.\" The \"enormous influence of the veto power\" has been cited as a cause of the UN's ineffectiveness in preventing and responding to genocide, violence, and human rights violations. Various countries outside the P5, such as the Non-Aligned Movement and African Union have proposed limitations on the veto power.\n\nBecause of this situation, it has been denounced that the Security Council is only effective when it comes to safeguarding the interests of its permanent members, and is unable to act against them. Consequently, resolutions authorising intervention in the internal affairs of other countries have been few. The interests of the permanent members have come to rest on the concept of non-interference, at the expense of the \"keep the peace and security\" mandate with which the Security Council was created. Perhaps because, while the \"responsibility to protect\" is not binding, state sovereignty remains a priority and, as the specialist in international relations Philippe Moreau-Desfarges points out, \"even if the rights of their populations are violated, only the Security Council can decide whether peace is threatened and take measures to protect that peace\". Thus, the Security Council has not taken forceful measures to punish governments considered as authoritarian, neglecting the \"responsibility to defend civilian populations\", recognised by the UN General Assembly in 2005.\n\nVarious discussions have taken place in recent years over the suitability of the Security Council veto power in today's world. Key arguments include that the five permanent members no longer represent the most stable and responsible member states in the United Nations, and that their veto power slows down and even prevents important decisions being made on matters of international peace and security. Due to the global changes that have taken place politically and economically since the formation of the UN in 1945, widespread debate has been apparent over whether the five permanent members of the UN Security Council remain the best member states to hold veto power. While some of the permanent members are still typically regarded as great powers, there is debate over their suitability to retain exclusive veto power.\n\nA second argument against retaining the UNSC veto power is that it is detrimental to balanced political decisions, as any draft text needs to be approved of by each permanent member before any draft resolution can possibly be adopted. Indeed, several proposed draft resolutions are never formally presented to the Council for a vote owing to the knowledge that a permanent member would vote against their adoption (the so-called \"pocket veto\"). Debate also exists over the potential use of the veto power to provide \"diplomatic cover\" to a permanent member's allies . The United States has used its veto power more than any other permanent member since 1972, particularly on resolutions condemning the actions or policies of Israel.\n\nAdvocates of the veto power believe that it is just as necessary in the current geo-political landscape, and that without the veto power, the Security Council would be open to making democratic \"majority rules\" decisions on matters that have implications at a global level—decisions that may well go directly against the interests of a permanent member.\n\nDiscussions on improving the UN's effectiveness and responsiveness to international security threats often include reform of the UNSC veto. Proposals include: limiting the use of the veto to vital national security issues; requiring agreement from multiple states before exercising the veto; and abolishing the veto entirely. However, any reform of the veto will be very difficult, if not impossible. In fact, Articles 108 and 109 of the United Nations Charter grant the P5 veto over any amendments to the Charter, requiring them to approve of any modifications to the UNSC veto power that they themselves hold: it is highly unlikely that any of the P5 would accept a reform of the UN Charter that would be detrimental to their own national interests.\n\nNonetheless, it has been argued that with the adoption of the \"Uniting for Peace\" resolution by the General Assembly, and given the interpretations of the Assembly's powers that became customary international law as a result, that the Security Council \"power of veto\" problem could be surmounted. By adopting A/RES/377 A, on 3 November 1950, over two-thirds of UN Member states declared that, according to the UN Charter, the permanent members of the UNSC cannot and should not prevent the UNGA from taking any and all action necessary to restore international peace and security, in cases where the UNSC has failed to exercise its \"primary responsibility\" for maintaining peace. Such an interpretation sees the UNGA as being awarded \"final responsibility\"—rather than \"secondary responsibility\"—for matters of international peace and security, by the UN Charter. Various official and semi-official UN reports make explicit reference to the Uniting for Peace resolution as providing a mechanism for the UNGA to overrule any UNSC vetoes; thus rendering them little more than delays in UN action, should two-thirds of the Assembly subsequently agree that action is necessary.\n\nThe threat of the use of the veto by the P5 has led the UN Security Council to adopt what some commentators have described as unlawful resolutions that violated the UN Charter. For example, UNSC resolution 1422 of 2002, renewed once through resolution 1487 of 2003, aimed at exempting peace-keepers and other military personnel conducting operations authorised by the Security Council from the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court (ICC) for a period of 12 months. Resolution 1422 was adopted as a consequence to the US veto on 30 June 2002 to the renewal of the Peace-keeping operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a State Party to the Rome Statute of the ICC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50940044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50940044", "title": "William B. Taylor (historian)", "text": "William B. Taylor (historian)\n\nWilliam B. Taylor is a historian of colonial Mexico, who held the Sonne Chair of History at University of California, Berkeley until his retirement. He made major contributions to the study of colonial land tenure, peasant rebellions, and many aspects of colonial religion in Mexico. In 2007 he received the Distinguished Service Award of the Conference on Latin American History, the highest honor of the professional organization of Latin American historians.\n\nTaylor attended Occidental College and earned a B.A. in Latin American Studies in 1965. He attended Universidad de las Américas 1964-65, earning an M.A. in History. He studied at University of Michigan for his doctorate under the direction of distinguished Latin American historian Charles Gibson. Taylor co-edited a festschrift for his mentor.\n\nHis 1969 doctoral dissertation was revised and published as \"Landlord and Peasant in Colonial Mexico\", which challenged a number of important aspects of research on colonial Mexican haciendas. Taylor showed that there were considerable regional variations in colonial Mexican land tenure patterns. Using the case study of Oaxaca, he demonstrated that indigenous communities continued to control land and the Catholic Church was not dominant in the agrarian sector. Taylor’s work was one many regional hacienda studies that followed, and one that Eric Van Young singles out in a review article. “Not all regions experienced the same degree of land concentration, of course, as Taylor’s 1972 work on Oaxaca has notably shown.”\n\nHis second major monograph was \"Drinking, Homicide, and Rebellion in Colonial Mexican Villages\", which showed that reports of indigenous drinking were likely exaggerated by colonial officials, homicides were usually within communities, and rebellion at the local level followed discernible patterns. Taylor identified local trial records as a new source of Mexican Indian history, which are important since they record Indians’ testimony on topics not generally found in other colonial sources. One reviewer of this book says that it stands “as evidence of the continued independence of thought of an historian who now ranks among the foremost in his specialty.”\n\nHis magisterial study of the secular clergy, \"Magistrates of the Sacred: Priests and Parishioners in Eighteenth-Century Mexico\" won the Conference on Latin American History Bolton/Johnson Award for the best book in English on Latin American history in 1997. The work is complicates the understanding of the colonial Catholic Church, and makes \"a major contribution to the ongoing debate over the significance of the Bourbon reforms...Taylor's monumental work is essential reading for every colonialist and an indispensable foundation for future studies of the church in colonial Latin America.\" Historian Nancy Farriss says of it, \"Taylor's book will stand for a long time as the work that everyone in the field must consult, refer to, and reckon with.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13915228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13915228", "title": "Wistman's Wood", "text": "Wistman's Wood\n\nWistman's Wood is one of only three remote high-altitude oakwoods on Dartmoor, Devon, England. (The other two are Black Tor Beare on the West Okement at SX565892 and Piles Copse on the River Erme at SX644620.)\n\nIt lies at an altitude of 380–410 metres in the valley of the West Dart River near Two Bridges, at grid reference SX612774.\n\nThe source of the Devonport Leat, at a weir on the West Dart River, is just north of the wood.\n\nThis is one of the highest oakwoods in Britain and, as an outstanding example of native upland oak woodland, was selected as a Site of Special Scientific Interest in 1964. It is also an NCR site and forms part of the Wistman’s Wood National Nature Reserve. The wood was also one of the primary reasons for selection of the Dartmoor Special Area of Conservation. \n\nThe wood is split into three main blocks (North, Middle and South Groves or Woods), which in total cover about 3.5 ha (9 acres). These occupy sheltered, south-west facing slopes, where a bank of large granite boulders (\"clitter\") is exposed, and pockets of acid, free-draining, brown earth soils have accumulated. It is owned by the Duchy of Cornwall and has been managed since 1961 under a nature reserve agreement with the Nature Conservancy Council, English Nature and Natural England. There is no active management, but many people visit the site on foot (mostly accessing the southern end of South Wood), and cattle and sheep have free access where the terrain permits, outside of a small fenced exclosure in South Wood.\n\nThe vegetation conforms mostly to W17a \"Quercus petraea-Betula pubescens-Dicranum majus\" woodland, \"Isothecium myosuroides-Diplophyllum albicans\" sub-community in the British National Vegetation Classification. The trees are mainly pedunculate oak, with occasional rowan, and a very few holly, hawthorn, hazel, and eared-willow. Tree branches are characteristically festooned with a variety of epiphytic mosses and lichens and, sometimes, by grazing-sensitive species such as bilberry and polypody. On the ground, boulders are usually covered by lichens and mossy patches – frequent species include \"Dicranum scoparium\", \"Hypotrachyna laevigata\", \"Rhytidiadelphus loreus\" and \"Sphaerophorus globosus\" – and, where soil has accumulated, patches of acid grassland grow with heath bedstraw, tormentil and sorrel. In places protected from livestock, grazing-sensitive plants such as wood sorrel, bilberry, wood rush and bramble occur. A fringe of bracken surrounds much of the wood, demarcating the extent of brown earth soils. The wood supports approximately 120 species of lichen.\n\nThe wood is home to a large population of adders.\n\nWistman's Wood has been mentioned in writing for hundreds of years. It is likely a left-over from the ancient forest that covered much of Dartmoor c. 7000 BC, before Mesolithic hunter/gatherers cleared it around 5000 BC. Photographic and other records show that Wistman's Wood has changed considerably since the mid-19th century; at the same time climatic conditions have also generally become warmer. Not only have the older oak trees grown from a stunted/semi-prostrate to a more ascending form, but a new generation of mostly straight-grown and single-stemmed oaks has developed. The oldest oaks appear to be 400–500 years old, and originated within a degenerating oakwood that survived in scrub form during two centuries of cold climate. In c. 1620 these old trees were described as \"no taller than a man may touch to top with his head\". Tree height increased somewhat by the mid-19th century, and during the 20th century approximately doubled (in 1997 the maximum and average height of trees was around 12 m and 7 m respectively). In addition, a wave of marginal new oaks arose after c. 1900, roughly doubling the area of wood. Part of the evidence for these changes comes from a permanent vegetation plot located in the southern end of South Wood. This is the oldest known of its kind in British woodland, with a small part having been recorded by Hansford Worth in 1921.\n\nThe \"Buller Stone\", a boulder to the east of the wood, commemorates an attempt in 1866 to date the trees, when Wentworth Buller (with permission from the Duchy) felled an oak. It was estimated to be 168 years old.\n\nThe wood has been the inspiration for numerous artists, poets, photographers and appears in hundreds of nineteenth century accounts. One tradition holds that it was planted by Isabella de Fortibus (1237-93). \n\nThe wood is described in detail and discussed as a point of great interest in \"The Tree\", a 1978 essay on naturalism by English novelist John Fowles.\n\nThe name of Wistman's Wood may derive from the dialect word 'wisht' meaning 'eerie/uncanny', or ‘pixie-led/haunted’. The legendary Wild Hunt in Devon is particularly associated with Wistman's Wood – the hellhounds of which are known as Yeth (Heath) or Wisht Hounds in the Devonshire dialect.\n"}
